---
author:
  name: SuperUltraFabulous
  picture: 111522
body: "Okay folks! Here are three of my favorites that you can't have. These are unreleased-
  and most likely, will never be released- fonts that rock my little typographic socks.\r\n\r\nVolvo
  Sans... used on all Volvo controls and switches. Its like Handel Gothic only more
  swedish-er.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/001_4215.jpg]\r\n\r\nBloomindales...
  This swanky typeface has been strutting its stuff while the folks who made Chalet
  were not even born yet. [And no, Horatio doesn't cut the mustard]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/header_bags_5019.jpg]\r\n\r\nLumene
  Script from Suomi... This is my favorite handwriting font ever! Perhaps when Lumene
  Cosmetics will change campaigns will then we have access to this genius face. Think
  of it as Emma Script with less caffeine. Plz Script is a significantly less refined
  alternative however the up-and-coming Suomi Script would be fascinating.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Lumene_6099.jpg]\r\n\r\nBut
  good news in 2011 we get access to Dereon... a luscious scotch face and in 2008
  Parisine Office from Porchez. :-)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Dereon_exemple_4263.gif]\r\n\r\nDo
  you have exclusive fonts that you wish you could have... post images, names, and
  foundries.\r\n\r\n\r\nMikey"
comments:
- author:
    name: stoavio
  body: 'Very cool thread. Too bad I have nothing to add yet. If something comes to
    mind I''ll be sure to post it here. '
  created: '2006-05-08 23:16:04'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "http://www.guggenheim.org/\r\n\r\nit's similar to FB Nobel which I can't
    have either because I can't afford it."
  created: '2006-05-09 04:43:14'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Patty> I know what you mean... there are so many wonderful fonts out there
    begging for us to buy them. Our bank accounts will never match up with desire.\r\n\r\nYour
    Guggenheim choice is telling as well. These institutions often commission excellent
    typefaces from the world's top designers [ much to our dismay ].\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2006-05-09 08:34:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What about a really good font you used to\r\nbe able to have but no longer
    can? Unica.  :-(\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-09 09:01:06'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hrant>\r\n\r\nI don't remember Unica. Do you have a sample or a website?
    I would love to see it.\r\n\r\nAs far as the font I wish could have, but they
    don't sell it any more: Antikva Margaret. \r\nZoltan Nagy's organic tour de force.
    I hope someone [talented enough- too many lousy/sloppy remakes these days] decides
    to digitize this genius face... I'll be waiting too.\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2006-05-09 09:24:50'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: http://www.typofonderie.com/alphabets/view/Dereon
  created: '2006-05-09 10:53:14'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "kesh> Dereon almost makes me want to take up fashion design so I can get
    a hold of it.\r\n\r\n;-)\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2006-05-09 11:00:05'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: The Bloomingdales face is just a 'topped and tailed' Avant Garde - went to
    Vignellis lecture in London last week. The rounded 'w' is differnt though.
  created: '2006-05-09 11:18:08'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Elliot> This I did not know. Vignellis lecture?
  created: '2006-05-09 11:23:42'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://www.klingspor-museum.de/KlingsporKuenstler/Schriftdesigner/Guertler/AGuertler.pdf\r\n\r\nHaas
    Unica \u2013 very limited sample on page 2 of this pdf\r\nand there have been
    typophile mentions, try the search (or google)\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/18387\r\n\r\nTim\r\n\r\n>Vignellis
    lecture\r\nD&AD President's lecture (www.dandad.org) couldn't go work too late"
  created: '2006-05-09 11:25:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Mike, it's hard to come up with good samples of Unica, especially since its\r\nrelevance
    is subtle with respect to its two sources: Helvetica and Univers.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    Massimo \"What's a font for?\" Vignelli bothers to use speech?!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-09 11:49:52'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: Sorry that was maybe a little cryptic. I went to a lecture by the husband
    and wife team, Massimo and Lella Vignelli, who did the Bloomingdales identity
    (in 1972) among their wide range of projects over the last 40+ years; Massimo
    Vignelli described the Bloomingdales logo as a simply customised Avant Garde.
    (In general they tend to use unadorned, tried and trusted classic and modern typefaces
    for identity and logo treatments - see also American Airlines, NYC subway signage,
    Knoll logo etc but occcasionally customise - they did their own Bodoni for example)
  created: '2006-05-09 12:00:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I didn't think you were being cryptic.\r\nI just think Vignelli doesn't adequately
    grasp communication.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-09 12:30:53'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "I was just explaining my link between the logo and mention of a lecture to
    S U Fabulous.\r\n\r\nHrant, I do understand that typographers don't necessarily
    have a high opinion of M Vignelli - especially given his comments about there
    being too many fonts in the world, none he regards as useful produced in the last
    30 years, etc. I can see how he could be acccused of not understanding, ignoring
    or even dismissing typography. Seems pretty good at communicating though."
  created: '2006-05-09 13:40:07'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<a href=\"https://www.axisfont.com/images/AXIS_Font.pdf\" target=\"_blank\">Axis
    by Akira Kobayashi</a> \r\n"
  created: '2006-05-09 14:36:41'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "I don't know if it was on here or another design forum, and correct me if
    I'm wrong, but isn't Volvo Sans just a modified/renamed version of another font?\r\n\r\nAlso,
    if you work on Volvo stuff you get a copy of their Volvo family of fonts. "
  created: '2006-05-09 18:37:11'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "hrant> Unica is very interesting. I like the fat counter to the lowercase
    'a'.\r\n\r\nElliot> Thanks for the info on the Bloomingdales font. I did not know
    he made that. I actually thought that was Bengiaut's work. \r\n\r\nFontPlayer>
    Axis can be yours for the low low price of just $1100. If you want to fork over
    that kind of cash, Akira himself, better autograph the cd for you.\r\n\r\nJselig>
    You might be referring to this post:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/3875\r\n\r\nThat
    post deals with Volvo Broad and some others. The font I love is the one actually
    used inside the cars. Its very different and still very much avant-garde.\r\n\r\nMikey
    ;-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/l_181_Volvo-1104-07_b_4315.jpg]"
  created: '2006-05-10 00:44:22'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>FontPlayer> Axis can be yours for the low low price of just $1100.
    If you want to fork over that kind of cash, Akira himself, better autograph the
    cd for you.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf he throws in an all expense paid trip to Japan to
    pick it up (you wouldn't want to send something that expensive through regular
    shipping channels), we've got a deal. After seeing some of Gia's reviews of Japan
    in another topic, I'm ready.\r\n; )\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-10 02:09:05'
- author:
    name: K1RK
  body: "Alway's liked this, by Porchez Typofounderie. Dereon for Beyonc\xE9 fashion
    line, House of Dereon.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typofonderie.com/alphabets/view/Dereon\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-10 04:47:01'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "K1RK> Yes! We love Beyonce's sexy voice. Now we love her sexy fonts too!\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2006-05-10 08:18:31'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Another one guys... \r\n\r\nTextaxis fonts- as of this moment- are still
    exclusively for the magazine Suite. In an email I received, they informed me:
    'In the future we going to sell part of the Textaxis catalogue.\" \r\nI respect
    the publications 'need' for exclusivity but part of me says 'ahh com'on guys,
    give the fonts'.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/suipos_6106.gif]\r\n;-)\r\n\r\nMikey\r\n\r\nPS...
    Textaxis's Suite family received a TDC award in 2002."
  children:
  - author:
      name: samadam
    body: ">SuperUltraFabulous \r\n\r\nThat's the font! (I believe)  NewScientist,
      a british science magazine, uses it; you can find it at the bottom of the cover
      and throughout the magazine.\r\n\r\nI was about to write to NewScientist to
      find out what this awesome sans they used was.  I love it!\r\n"
    created: '2006-05-12 20:09:54'
  created: '2006-05-10 08:34:44'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "started my own blog of motorized fonts.. thing you inspired\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/blog/7029"
  created: '2006-05-10 12:59:25'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: "I like the DB Type for the german railway company \"Deutsche Bahn\" by Erik
    Spiekermann\r\n\r\nhttp://www.spiekermann.com/iblog/C61720386/E20051013130639/Media/DBType_Uebersicht.pdf"
  created: '2006-05-10 15:05:28'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: "Telenor, by Magnus Rakeng.\r\nhttp://www.melkeveien.no/magnus-rakeng/telenor.html"
  created: '2006-05-10 15:15:34'
- author:
    name: Typeology
    picture: 111236
  body: That's sick about Volvo! I always wondered about it. Have to say that Porchez
    is the shit! Matthew Carter's was the shit last year. Is Porchez gonna be the
    shit this year @ Typecon?
  created: '2006-05-10 18:50:43'
- author:
    name: Typeology
    picture: 111236
  body: Oh that's gay! It edited out my cursing! Sorry if I offended anyone!
  created: '2006-05-10 18:51:22'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<strong>I was thinking about Sem Hartz' <cite>Juliana</cite>, but it seems
    it's in the pipeline now. </strong>\r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2006-05-11 15:02:06'
- author:
    name: alexhb
    picture: 110687
  body: "I'm thinking Archer for Martha Stewart Living.\r\nI love how Frere-Jones
    was able to merge a soft and feminine look with a rigid slab serif face."
  created: '2006-05-12 02:06:42'
- author:
    name: gthompson
    picture: 109676
  body: "<em>As far as the font I wish could have, but they don\u2019t sell it any
    more: Antikva Margaret.\r\nZoltan Nagy\u2019s organic tour de force. I hope someone
    [talented enough- too many lousy/sloppy remakes these days] decides to digitize
    this genius face\u2026 I\u2019ll be waiting too.\r\nMikey</em>\r\n\r\nI've wanted
    to do Nagy's work for some time. Antikva Margeret has always been one of my favorites
    for a long time. I've never run across good samples of all of his work though.
    All I have is an old VGC specimen from the 70s. Anybody know of any really good
    sources? And is there any possible contact info for relatives, heirs, etc?\r\n\r\nGeorge
    \r\nI felt bad because I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
  created: '2006-05-12 02:50:32'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "gthompson> Are you kidding!!! (your gonna pee your pants) I have ACTUAL pressure
    transfer sheets of Antikva Margaret sitting in my house in a box. NO JOKE!. THEY
    ARE IN PERFECT CONDITION! I pull them out gently and stare through them sometimes...and
    think how is it some people come up with brilliant ideas, whereas others like
    myself, can only appreciate them.\r\n\r\nI also have samples of York by Georg
    Sultan another genius european. You can get a lousy phony version of York called
    Jorvik Antikva on dafont.com \r\nThe forger has the nerve to \"want to know what
    you'll do with it\"\r\nIts bad but you can get an good idea.\r\n\r\n\r\nBack to
    Margaret... My scanner is dead... contact me through my profile if you need too.
    I'm so pumped I can't type!\r\n\r\n\r\nMikey\r\n\r\nPs... I love all these unusual
    squarish Melior-like display faces from the 70's and 60's. They make me want to
    drink tea or garden or something... I love organics!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
  created: '2006-05-12 13:51:09'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'Let''s not forget those Fontographer fonts which have disappeared into the
    ether. Some seem to have been rescued by other foundries but lots of them are
    still not available. '
  created: '2006-05-12 15:37:21'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "I wish I could have '<a href=\"http://www.orangeitalic.com/luxury.shtml\"
    target=\"_blank\">Luxury</a>', but I fear I am just not wealthy enough. :)\r\n\r\n<em>(
    Ooh, And most of the other custom, exclusive 'stuff' by <a href=\"http://www.orangeitalic.com\"
    target=\"_blank\">Christian Schwartz / Orange Italic</a> and <a href=\"http://www.hubertjocham.de\"
    target=\"_blank\">Hubert Jocham</a>. )</em>\r\n\r\nDav"
  created: '2006-05-12 15:46:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But Mike, isn't the squarish style (which I admire as well, although in Melior\r\nit
    doesn't really click for me) actually mechanical - the opposite of organic?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: gthompson
      picture: 109676
    body: "<em>But Mike, isn\u2019t the squarish style (which I admire as well, although
      in Melior\r\nit doesn\u2019t really click for me) actually mechanical - the
      opposite of organic?\r\nhhp</em>\r\n\r\nTake a look at Antikva Margaret and
      you'll see what he means. It's geometric-organic the same way C. R. Mackintosh's
      work is. Looks a little boxy, but all curves.\r\n\r\nGeorge \r\nI felt bad because
      I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
    created: '2006-05-12 16:49:12'
  created: '2006-05-12 16:12:59'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "Yea, Shhh, Hermann Zapf = Superellipseman. :)\r\n\r\nDav"
  created: '2006-05-12 16:21:20'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "Zapf's Civilite\r\n\r\nand i believe [[house industries|house]] will be releasing
    luxury sometime in the future. don't know what the pricetag will be..."
  created: '2006-05-12 16:42:22'
- author:
    name: gthompson
    picture: 109676
  body: "<em>I have ACTUAL pressure transfer sheets of Antikva Margaret sitting in
    my house in a box. NO JOKE!. THEY ARE IN PERFECT CONDITION!\r\n\r\nI also have
    samples of York by Georg Sultan another genius european. You can get a lousy phony
    version of York called Jorvik Antikva on dafont.com\r\nThe forger has the nerve
    to \u201Cwant to know what you\u2019ll do with it\u201D\r\nIts bad but you can
    get an good idea.</em>\r\n\r\nOkay, now I'm jealous. Do you have more than the
    regular roman? VGC catalog shows an italic as well as light, extrabold, and black
    weights.\r\n\r\nNew York was another nice one. I used to keep big photostats of
    both to look at, but never had a job I could use them for. There was a day school
    I used to pass whose sign was painted in New York. Always nice to see it, though
    not really the right face for the job.\r\n\r\nSurprisingly I couldn't find a specimen
    with New York in it, and the Jaspert & Berry <em>Encyclodpedia of Typefaces</em>
    doesn't list it or Antikva Margaret.\r\n\r\nGeorge \r\nI felt bad because I had
    no shoes, until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
  created: '2006-05-12 16:45:35'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>( Ooh, And most of the other custom, exclusive \u2018stuff\u2019 by Christian
    Schwartz / Orange Italic and Hubert Jocham. )</em>\r\n\r\nI have a new font-making
    hero. I like almost every single one.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-12 20:17:39'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: The best font I can't have is in my head!
  created: '2006-05-13 01:16:08'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Steven Wulf> I'm loving this DB Type. Looks like the design has lots of longevity.\r\n\r\nChris
    Keegan> Telenor has clean lines AND a personality. I like the light weight.\r\n\r\nTypeology>
    I know. Volvos- not so sexy. The font inside- very sexy!\r\n\r\nfredo> Sem Hartz\u2019
    Juliana is getting attention now and I hope they make it true to its design and
    modern for today. There is even a book in the works.\r\n\r\nhttp://infernopress.blogspot.com/2006/04/sem-hartz-making-of-linotype-juliana.html\r\n\r\nalexhb>
    I have never seen Archer before... great post! Umm... it reminds me if Stymie
    and Century had a baby, Archer would be it. It also reminds me of: \r\nhttp://www.vanderfont.com/type/page/CHARMINETTE.php\r\n\r\nPattyfab>
    I have never ever heard of that... I wish someone has a site that shows some of
    them. I'm not a type designer so I'm clueless about fontographer.\r\n\r\nformlos>
    SuperEllipseMan???? Splain that one.\r\n\r\npaul D hunt> I have never seen Civilite...please
    elaborate!\r\n\r\nSamadam> Good pick... very strong. Would have never spotted
    that.\r\n\r\n\r\nThanks guys....\r\n\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2006-05-13 02:28:10'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "hrant> You have not seen Antikva Margaret I take it... have a look at this
    image I pulled from another thread.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/screenshot_5840.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nSqarish
    yet organic... not mechanical. Is it just me or does that lowercase 'g' rock?\r\n\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2006-05-13 02:33:40'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Sergej> Although I'm not a type designer I know what you mean.
  created: '2006-05-13 03:04:03'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "gthompson> Now you go me jealous. You have THE actual VGC catalog! I wish
    I had that puppy. Umm... sorry but I only have the regular and no italic. :-/\r\nSpeaking
    of public sightings... there's a concrete bus stop in my city and you know what?...
    the inscriptions are set in Margaret.\r\n\r\nThanks....\r\nMikey\r\n\r\n\r\nPS...
    York is the actual name to Georg Sultan's typeface. New York is the font standard
    on macs by Font Bureau. Not to be picking-nits but I just don't want anyone to
    be confused... :-)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: gthompson
      picture: 109676
    body: "<em>\u2026 there\u2019s a concrete bus stop in my city and you know what?\u2026
      the inscriptions are set in Margaret.</em>\r\n\r\nHey, nice. Got any pictures?
      \r\n\r\n<em>PS\u2026 York is the actual name to Georg Sultan\u2019s typeface.
      New York is the font standard on macs by Font Bureau. Not to be picking-nits
      but I just don\u2019t want anyone to be confused\u2026 :-)</em>\r\n\r\nI finally
      located a phototype specimen of it in an old Total Type (defunct Chicago type
      house) specimen that called it New York. VGC catalog calls it York, so perhaps
      York was the original name and New York the knockoff name. \r\n\r\nGeorge \r\nI
      felt sad because I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
    created: '2006-05-13 23:04:12'
  created: '2006-05-13 03:30:16'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "Mikey, Ever heard of the term '<a href=\"http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&lr=&q=SuperEllipse&btnG=Search\"
    target=\"_blank\">SuperEllipse</a>'?\r\n<em>( <a href=\"http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&lr=&q=%22Hermann+Zapf%22+%2B+%22SuperEllipse%22&btnG=Search\"
    target=\"_blank\">Hermann Zapf + SuperEllipse</a> )</em>\r\n\r\nDav"
  created: '2006-05-13 12:47:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Now that you've put up a sample, I know I'd seen Antikva Margaret, but I'd\r\nforgotten
    what it looks like (and how nice it looks). It certainly has some great glyphs!
    The \"g\" though I would have given an open bottom - it's clotting a bit.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I think the famed old Czech-produced ITC catalog from the 80s\r\nhas decent samples
    of it, and I once made some copies from that, so...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-13 15:45:46'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>You have THE actual VGC catalog! I wish I had that puppy.</em>\r\n\r\nGee,
    I thought everyone has at least one! ;-)\r\nWhich leads me to a few faces that
    I doubt will ever see the light of digital-day --\r\n\r\nThough Stempel AG acquires
    full ownership of the type foundry Klingspor Bros., VGC had these available in
    Typositor fonts:\r\n> Folkwang (H. Schardt) 1949 (which CG digitized as an experimental
    font manipulation exercise).\r\n> Orplid (H. Bohn) 1929, a sans display with 3D
    shadow.\r\n\r\nAlso will never be digitized:\r\nGerstner Program type family,
    nice but who needs another extended grotesk :\\\r\n\r\nAnd, oh yeah... the missing
    alternates for Bauer Topic!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-13 19:52:36'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "I'm noticing a trend here. Its seems the most likely clients to request custom
    type work are: telecommunications, banking, and transportation.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.teldesign.nl/opdracht/onderwijs/cito.html\r\n\r\nYou
    can find Cito Sans here. Super clean, very minimalist.\r\n\r\nBut my favorite,
    in fact one of the most successful designs, is CakeType's work for KPN. This should
    be released! If Myriad and Vista had a baby this is it. In fact I would say this
    thousnd times better than Vista! More elegant more powerful! But too exclusive
    :-(\r\nCheck it out:\r\nhttp://www.caketype.com/custom_kpn.html\r\n\r\nMikey\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-14 00:40:33'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "formlos> thank you for the info... apparently Zapf was ahead of his time
    regarding super-ellipses in type. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superellipse\r\n\r\nhrant>
    perhaps you can post some images...purty please :-)\r\n\r\nNorbert Florendo> Unfortunately,
    I was at a very young age when the last VGC catalog was produced and I only started
    to love type when I was about 11 or 12 when I got my first Font & Function catalog.
    Folkwang is interesting. I have never heard of the Gerstner Program font... more
    info on that one please. Now Topic Rocks!!! \r\n\r\ngthompson> I wish I could
    post images of that bus stop... My Minolta Dimage XT is not working either...
    I spilled something on it in a night club and my $69 scanner is not mac friendly.
    I'm just sucking right now!!! \r\nI have an interesting observation about York
    I will post shortly in another thread.\r\n\r\n\r\nThanks guys,\r\n\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2006-05-14 01:32:36'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Augereau by George Abrams\r\n\r\nDoes anyone have any comments about a comparison
    of this with Adobe's Premier Pro Garamond?"
  created: '2006-05-18 01:46:21'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Antikva Margaret is in Rookledge, no punctuation though.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-05-18 14:25:39'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "DanGayle> Augereau  is lovely but I'm sold on Adobe its also cheaper and
    OpenType savy.\r\n\r\ntimd> I saw that too but again not digitization in site....
    :-(\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2006-05-19 02:04:46'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Top on my list are Christian Schwartz's <a href=\"http://www.orangeitalic.com/addison.shtml\">Addison</a>,
    <a href=\"http://www.orangeitalic.com/guardian.shtml\">Guardian</a>, <a href=\"http://www.orangeitalic.com/stag.shtml\">Stag</a>,
    and <a href=\"http://www.orangeitalic.com/caslon.shtml\">Caslon Egyptian</a>;
    and Font Bureau's Readability Series including the brand new <a href=\"http://fontbureau.com/fonts/Quiosco\">Quiosco</a>.\r\n\r\nMikey
    - if you like CakeType's KPN you might like Fred Smeijers' <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=verity.search&searchstr=Fresco%20Informal\">Fresco
    Informal Sans</a>.\r\n\r\nDan - Abrams' Augureau and Venetian are available at
    <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/browse/foundry/abramslegacy/?refby=typographica\">MyFonts</a>."
  created: '2006-05-19 03:03:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I love FB's recent news faces - top-shelf stuff. Pushy but so competent.\r\nBut
    somehow their <cite>names</cite> seem a bit like... gringo tourists in Ensenada.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-19 05:24:42'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Stephen Coles> Caslon Egyptian is wonderful- it like Bau and Futura.\r\n\r\nBut
    Our Type is too expensive. I like their stuff but I would rather give  my money
    to another more resonably priced designer... FontFont anyone?\r\n\r\n\r\nHrant>
    Si Senor! I love FB too.\r\n\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2006-05-20 06:47:28'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: $48/style is $20 more than Linotype, but only $8-13 more than FontFont and
    E+F. As always, you pay for what you get. The experience of them Dutch fellas
    is worth the slight premium.
  created: '2006-05-21 02:41:11'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: Besides, if PDfs are important to you, the OurType EULA is very user friendly,
    allowing the creation of PDFs with editable embedding.
  created: '2006-05-21 04:29:12'
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: "Thanks for the compliments about the typeface I designed for KPN. I also
    did the Cito Sans typeface (still not used).\r\n\r\nPieter"
  created: '2006-06-29 13:00:45'
- author:
    name: NiceTry
    picture: 110937
  body: "Hee-hee. Luxury is hilarious. So tongue-in-cheek.\r\nThat Textaxis stuff
    looks an awful lot like DTL Prokyon."
  created: '2006-06-29 16:06:14'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: <a href="http://houseind.com/index.php?page=comingsoon">The latest on Luxury</a>
    coming soon to a CPU near you...
  created: '2006-06-29 16:07:52'
- author:
    name: NiceTry
    picture: 110937
  body: "1. Dick Dooijes' Mercator Light from Amsterdam Type Foundry.\r\n2. A decent
    Swiss grotesque with all the bells and whistles."
  created: '2006-06-29 16:13:58'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Hmm\u2026 There are so many.\r\nIt came to my mind Inga, designed by Lennart
    Hansson and published by Mecanorma France (I think it existed just as a transferable
    type). I have it in a book Lennart sent me years ago. It's really a typeface I
    could use.\r\nAnd then Andromeda by Aldo Novarese (existing probably in phototypesetting
    format only). It could be considered a sort of display companion to his own Mixage.\r\nSee
    if you can find samples of those two online\u2026\r\nToo tired to do a scan\u2026"
  created: '2006-07-03 20:20:23'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Pieter van Rosmalen> I LOVE LOVE LOVE your work for KPN! When I sell my house
    in LA I plan I on commisioning a custom typeface for myself... we will be in touch
    for sure!!!\r\n\r\nNice Try> I like Luxury too. I'm glad House put on their website
    a section for their up an coming creations!!! \r\nMercator??? I was unable to
    find anything than on that design...do you have something? And you are right about
    having a swiss sans that has all the opentype feature you can shake a stick at.
    I still love Helvetica no matter what though :-)\r\n\r\npiccic> Inga? Do you have
    images to share? I would love to see it. Also I have heard of Aldo Novarese's
    Andromeda too- and he be so prominant in history- I find it strange no has has
    done a digitization.\r\n\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2006-07-05 06:15:19'
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: "Hello SuperUltraFabulous,\r\n\r\nThanks for the compliment.\r\n\r\nPieter"
  created: '2006-07-05 09:37:30'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Martha Stewart's fonts - nearly all of them. Love the script, especially.
  created: '2006-07-06 21:44:32'
- author:
    name: typofoto
    picture: 109920
  body: "I love the Nokia typefaces, I almost want a new Nokia phone, just so I can
    see text messages arrive in the bitmap font. I like Miles Newlyn's faces for the
    Three network. And I miss seeing Miller in the Guardian, so that's another I'd
    like to have around me but can't.\r\n "
  created: '2006-07-07 16:17:38'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "Unica Light Lowercase. \r\nRedrawn from scratch with some modifications to
    suit my purposes.\r\nShown: 1st Draft.\r\n\r\nI was unable to arrange to buy font/licence
    at this time from Elsner&Flake (due to naming copyright issues in Europe) so redrew
    for use on a logotype project in progress.\r\n\r\nI won't go into the modifications
    unless anyone is interested but I can tell you being a lover of Swiss sans serif
    the exercise has been an eye opener into the creation of the forms and optical
    considerations. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/unicadeux_4571.gif]\r\n\r\nThanks
    to hrant for putting me onto special Unica edition of Typografische Monatsbl\xE4tter
    which I was able to use as a basis.\r\n\r\nhernan\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-18 12:15:38'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "hernan: I'm loving this Unica Deaux face you are working on. Previously you
    had mentioned that you like a good swiss sans with all the bells and whistles....
    any special features you plan on adding to this baby?\r\n\r\n\r\nMikey"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Michael Hernan
      picture: 111011
    body: "It is NiceTry who wants the bells and Whistles. I was wondering what was
      meant by this as-well! Perhaps double s, alternative ampersands, Sans-serif
      fist?\r\n\r\nUnica Deux (because is closest to an archetypal form) is a development
      platform for me - so I'm using it to learn and try out ideas. My next task is
      to try out versions of the Cap R. This still bugs me. Even though the original
      is undoubtedly the correct way - there's no harm in trying alternatives and
      see if any do the trick.\r\n\r\nI also like Mercator - I have just ordered a
      type specimen to have a better look at it, as I have only ever seen it as its
      own title in a Berthold type specimen book form the 80's with no setting or
      character set. (ill drop a scan when I get it). \r\n\r\nMercator really gives
      off 60's vibe and is really direct. Great for massive one word Poster headings.
      The cap M is really broad. Nice.\r\n\r\nMy wish for what I want but cant have
      starts with Adonis by Stephenson Blake. It is a grotesk type which was made
      by filing off the serifs of a copperplate style font. The result is intriguing.
      Looking a bit like akzidenz buch extended but with something else??? I first
      saw an example when I was studying at Manchester, where there was a beautiful
      Purple and Blue specimen sheet. I should have xeroxed it! I have since found
      another sample, which I will put here in the future."
    created: '2006-07-21 10:25:36'
  created: '2006-07-19 21:59:58'
- author:
    name: wesmo
  body: "I've always hoped for a complete set of Serif Gothic, with all the alternates
    as seen in this great movie title.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/halloween1978dvd_4104.gif]"
  created: '2006-07-21 20:11:02'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Archer is no longer an exclusive font:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typography.com/fonts/font_overview.php?productLineID=100033\r\n\r\nMikey
    :-)"
  created: '2008-01-26 02:16:28'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "SuperUltra: I just saw again this thread.\r\nIf you are still curious to
    see how Inga looks, I could do a scan.\r\nI think Lennart has a digital version
    (I have not asked him), however, although it seems it is no\r\nt available from
    the Mecanorma catalogs of digital type from distributors.\r\nThis happens with
    many faces\u2026\r\n\r\nAbout Novarese: you can't imagine how much of his typefaces
    do not exist in digital forms.\r\n\r\nI should add to the two entries above, Richler
    by Nick Shinn (a custom typeface).\r\nFrom what I recall, I really could use it."
  created: '2008-02-05 14:18:57'
- author:
    name: teetee123
  body: "Fot the big brown bag / Bloomingdale's I have a similar font, almost identical,
    you can even have the crossed double O placed in: { or } keys. STRICTLY FOR PERSONAL
    USE.. Called it Bloomies, a mix of SF New Republic and ITC Gothic Avant Guard
    MD and some other fonts. For the small w I jsut reversed the m from S.F.N.R, rotated
    the c and e from SF and some other stuff... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.mediafire.com/download.php?3y5zy5jtnmz\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-30 06:49:53'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Mike, this is embarassing: here is where I'm still stuck in my thinking in
    2008\u20132009, and I never even drove a Volvo :)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/volvo_6409.png]"
  created: '2009-07-30 08:18:01'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: Image Club Graphics produced a version of Antikva Margaret copyright 1992.
    The copy I have is only a regular and italic. I know from my old VGC catalogs
    that a Light and Bold was issued at one point.
  created: '2009-07-31 01:29:11'
- author:
    name: Nunymare
  body: BellSlim comes to mind. So does Telenor.
  created: '2009-09-03 05:26:43'
- author:
    name: Bloodtype
    picture: 114182
  body: "I always enjoyed this one:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rac-logo_5225.png]"
  created: '2009-09-07 14:36:12'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Michael (userone), what's your status on the Unica Deux? \r\n(But I guess
    you'd have to keep it to yourself anyway right\u2026)"
  created: '2009-09-07 18:41:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Even if he won't want to release it he might be able to\r\nprovide (including
    for payment) EPS settings from it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-07 18:56:04'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "Hey Nina, I came back and looked at this the other day and saw I had kind
    of put a shopping list of \"desires\" together with @NiceTry's inspiration. As
    I have had a couple of goes at small caps now - this would make sense. I might
    try to do this without looking at the Unica Capitals and see where they end up.
    (Overlay was used for the lowercase). Actually I believe it is good practice to
    work on the more challenging small caps first (perhaps caps and small caps play
    off each other). I can't put a time scale on this yet as I have pressing matters
    to attend to like finish the MA thesis: 'Compact Typography: The design of typefaces
    conceived for small size applications.' \r\n\r\nLuckily Unica is timeless so waiting
    another bit longer won't hurt...\r\n\r\nAnyway. A while back I saw this in real
    life which I think someone mentioned in another thread:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Art_and_Language_5653.jpg]\r\n\r\n
    [[http://www.amazon.co.uk/Art-Language/dp/3905701561/ref=wl_it_dp_o?ie=UTF8&coliid=I330T5GHLYJRD5&colid=91K82JP8CXSN|A&L
    Art and Language]]\r\n\r\nClose up it is not as true as I had hoped and there
    is a bold use of a dot on the i which kind of bugged me but is the style if the
    designers (whom I forget but I think are Swiss). Respect though - because the
    concept is perfect: offering typographic neutrality when discussing art (without
    perceived bias)!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-07 19:24:13'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "Well if three people want it (including me) - then it *shall* be created.\r\n\r\nIn
    the meantime @hrants eps setting idea is a good one. Perhaps it works in the same
    way a Licence would and also would entitle you to the font when it was finished?\r\n\r\nRemember
    no caps yet."
  created: '2009-09-07 19:30:13'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"Luckily Unica is timeless so waiting another bit longer won\u2019t
    hurt...\"</cite>\r\nFor those of us who don't have Unica, it hurts every day.\r\n(Insert
    dramatic music here)\r\nSeriously, thanks for the update. The EPS idea sounds
    reasonable. \r\nI don't actually have a project at hand for which I'd need it
    at the moment \u2013 it's more like a General Desire To Have Unica\u2026 :-)&nbsp;&nbsp;But
    if a chance pops up I'll let you know."
  created: '2009-09-07 19:38:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> if three people want it\r\n\r\nAre you kidding? I get a \"Where can I buy
    Unica?\" email like\r\nevery three months (the latest on 8/14), and I don't even
    sell it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-07 20:23:36'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: Where can I by Unica?
  created: '2010-08-10 02:06:01'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "Don't know - might be worth holding on for the release of 'Uniform'.\r\nI
    have been developing this in tandem with re-branding of Uniform Wares.\r\nhttp://www.uniformwares.com\r\nWe
    are using 2 of the planned 12 weights.\r\nIt has small caps (used for the watch
    back etchings) and various special touches like 'Sentence Capitals'. [New Concept]\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-10 23:06:56'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hmm\u2026 so what are 'Sentence Capitals'? :)"
  created: '2010-08-12 15:32:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Michael, you might consider straightening out the flap of the "1" a bit, it's
    a little too cute at the moment.
  created: '2010-08-12 15:40:43'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "Won't hijack this super thread any further.\r\n\r\nNina - I am opening up
    the concept here <a href=http://typophile.com/node/73153>Typophile node 73153</a>\r\nThanks
    for the nudge.\r\n\r\nNick - Thanks - I will work some more on this. (and might
    start a critique page to focus my progress)."
  created: '2010-08-12 23:03:58'
- author:
    name: KingdomOfPrussia
  body: Does anyone know where to get the Augereau font? I can't find it anywhere...
    and it's so expensive...
  created: '2010-11-14 11:50:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If you know the price, you probably know where to get it...\r\n(We don't
    promote font piracy here.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-14 14:29:38'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "At least Williams Caslon Text is now generally available. (And there's also
    Imprint, and many people might already have that or Bitstream's Dutch 766.)\r\n\r\nAs
    noted in another thread, not only Haas Unica, but also the Rail Alphabet, are
    not generally available. (But we have Akzidenz Grotesk, Helvetica, and Helvetica
    Neue to choose from, at least.)"
  created: '2010-11-14 15:35:53'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/abramslegacy/augereau
  created: '2010-11-16 02:01:28'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "Cool how this thread has changed from the best fonts you can't have-  to
    the Best fonts you CAN have!\r\nGotta say - Augereau is really NICE. "
  created: '2010-11-22 15:17:04'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Woooohooo :-)
  created: '2010-11-24 08:16:25'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: And you probably know that Lumene script has been available for a while now
    from FontShop as Suomi Hand Script.
  created: '2010-11-24 08:36:47'
- author:
    name: cdavidson
  body: "I might add the Vodafone font to this list (from Dalton Maag... and yes,
    I know it's a modified version of Interface!)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.daltonmaag.com/about/modification/case_studies/vodafone.html"
  created: '2010-11-24 13:20:46'
- author:
    name: clueless13c
    picture: 127553
  body: I would like to have FS Albert. It is from Fontsmith. It is very very expensive.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/one
    main font send 1_5147.jpg]
  created: '2014-07-26 02:21:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Not that this thread is about being able to afford stuff, but: How much do
    you pay monthly for your cellphone?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-07-26 02:34:32'
- author:
    name: djnippa
    picture: 117561
  body: For some reason I have Volvo Sans and Volvo Serif.
  created: '2014-07-26 17:52:24'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "There is a site for the corporate identity of Volvo Penta which makes available
    fonts by the names Volvo Sans and Volvo Serif, but those aren't the same as the
    fonts used on the dashboards of Volvo automobiles; they're closer to ordinary
    sans-serif typefaces like Helvetica. (Volvo Broad in that set looks a bit like
    the face on the dashboards, but it's more condensed.)\r\n\r\nAnd there's a <em>different</em>
    font floating around some font sites called Volvo Sans - it appears to be Akzidenz
    Grotesk with a serif added to the 7 and some other minor alterations."
  created: '2014-07-27 19:52:14'
- author:
    name: Birdseeding
    picture: 121722
  body: I'd love to use [[http://www.typogra.fi/|Yle]] and excellent-quality newspaper
    type [[http://www.felicianotypefoundry.com/cms/custom-fonts/sueca|Sueca]].
  created: '2014-07-28 07:28:09'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I recognized the name YLE immediately, having listened to a lot of Laila
    Kinnunen on YouTube.\r\n\r\nIt is to become available for general licensing in
    2014, so you shouldn't have long to wait. Also, it resembles some other currently
    popular and fashionable typefaces I think I've seen recently.\r\n\r\nBut the first
    such typeface I could find was also a custom typeface, <a href=\"https://www.behance.net/gallery/726190/SEAT-sans-typeface\">SEAT</a>
    from Minsk."
  created: '2014-07-28 12:19:00'
- author:
    name: Vinchenzo
    picture: 127608
  body: "This is possibly the best font that I can't have - as far as I know (after
    an hour of digging) it's a bespoke font not for reuse.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/148070_2af965d97c2c45648fa8b1f4cb496cb6_4244.jpg]\r\n"
  created: '2014-08-13 23:12:15'
date: '2006-05-07 10:43:38'
node_type: forum
title: The best fonts you can't have...

---
