---
author:
  name: William Berkson
  picture: 110306
body: "I recently got hold of the monograph 'Optical letter spacing for new printing
  systems' (1976) by David Kindersley. I was looking for enlightenment on his ideas,
  but unfortunately I find the presentation rather difficult to understand. \r\n\r\nHis
  basic idea seems to be that the amount of space a letter should have--advance width
  times vertical extension--should be equal to the total white space within the letter,
  as defined by the black extremes left right, top and bottom--plus a fixed amount.\r\n\r\nOne
  determines the left-right placing of the letter within this space the following
  way: \r\n1. if one slides a vertical bar left and right over the letter, when the
  total left and right white spaces are equal, it is the correct 'optical center'.
  \r\n2. The letter should be placed with its optical center equal distance between
  the extremes of the advance width.\r\n\r\nI'm not even sure whether I've got these
  basics right. Does anyone know more about Kindersley's ideas, and what happened
  to them? Did anyone take them up? Were they rejected? How do they relate to Tracy's
  principles in 'Letters of Credit'? \r\n\r\n  "
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "William,\r\nI admit to knowing nothing about Kindersley but I wonder how
    feasible such a solution is. It seems to me that most type designers (except those
    who are fond of calculation) can arrive at reasonable letterspacing by eye and
    experience more quickly than making all the measurements and calculations a system
    like his might require. To me, from reading your post above, it seems the concept
    of proximity is not allowed for sufficiently in the method described above. Proximity
    may be my own dream as a concept, since I have not seen it mentioned elsewhere,
    but I can't see it not having a great affect in spacing. I define proximity as
    the distance between the 2 closest points of adjacent glyphs in a word. A double
    v will have very close proximity, a double i or l will not.  My theory is that
    proximity mitigates area of white space in adjoining letters. An example is the
    word \"wavy\" vs. the word \"tilt\"; here the proximity of the vy in wavy counteracts
    the large space created by the adjacent opposing diagonals. \r\nKindersley's theory
    in intriguing to me in the same way as statistical observations are like IQ. It
    is interesting to see an IQ number of a person compared to how well he functions
    in the real world but it is not always a good predictor. Is Kindersley always
    a good predictor of spacing and how would you judge that anyway unless by eye?\r\n\r\nJust
    an observation, not an absolute.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-07 22:25:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">type designers (except those who are fond of calculation) can arrive at
    reasonable letterspacing by eye and experience \r\n\r\nWell, the reason for my
    interest in Kindersley's work is that what the eye should be looking for is not
    totally obvious to me. As has been discussed in other threads, there is tension
    between different goals in spacing. One is to not have the extremes of letters
    touching. Another is to have the white area between letters approximately equal
    (the 'pouring sand between letters analogy'); another is to have a even rhythm
    of the counters moving across the page, etc. \r\n\r\nWhat should the trade-offs
    between these different goals be? The thing that worries me and has me looking
    at different theories is that what looks to the eye like good spacing for display
    might not be best from the point of readability in continuous text. \r\n\r\nFor
    example, I think that taking into account proximity is necessary but dangerous.
    It is necessary because otherwise legibility is hurt when eg rn are not clearly
    separate. It is dangerous because if you give it too much emphasis you can hurt
    other more important goals such as good rhythm and color. In <a href=http://www.typophile.com/node/10191>this
    thread</a> Raph argues that the influence of serifs\u2014and hence proximity\u2014should
    be greater at large sizes, smaller at small sizes. \r\n\r\nI don't know that formulas
    such as Kindersley was seeking--and which Adobe's 'optical spacing' actually uses--will
    ever be as good or better than the eye of a designer, though I don't see how you
    can rule it out. My purpose, though, is not to find a formula, but just to understand
    the aspect of spacing he was exploring. \r\n\r\n\r\nMaybe it would help to put
    up his basic diagram. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kindersley Diagram2_4465.gif]\r\n\r\nHere
    is what Kindersley says about it:\r\n\r\n\"In this 'C' the optical centre is very
    near the third moment centre and the mathematical centre. The mathematic centre
    is equidistant between the left and right projections of a letter (including serifs).
    \r\n\r\n\"The other centres are from the left: (1) area; (2) first moment (gravity);
    (3) second moment (interia); (4) third moment (optical?); 5 mathematical centre
    or the vertical halfway between the left and right projections of the letter.
    \ \r\n\r\n\"The optical centre must coincide with the mathematical centre of the
    space. These two factors, the correct space and the correct optical centre, alone
    provide the key to the interchangeability of characters. At this time I could
    see no way of finding the optical center except by eye ...\"\r\n\r\nI understand
    the center of area, but I'm not totally sure what area he is talking about--I
    am guessing it is the white area in the box bounded by the extremes of the black,
    but I'm not sure. The 'first moment' of gravity I assume is the center of gravity
    of the black figure, if it were solid. The 'second moment' I don't understand,
    as moment of inertia is, according to what I read, defined with respect to an
    axis of rotation. It doesn't define an axis, that I can see.\r\n\r\nLater in the
    book, Kindersley explains the idea of finding the optical center by sliding a
    vertical bar left and right until the white space is equal on both sides. The
    bar is then at the optical center. He actually used a light behind the letter
    and a black wedge for the vertical bar. And he measured the total light projected.
    \  \r\n\r\nAt any rate, if someone can enlighten me on these issues, and the status
    of Kindersley's effort, I would be interested. "
  created: '2006-05-08 14:11:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It seems to work like physics where an uneven mass (compare a hammer to a
    bowling ball) causes the centre to shift balance point.  You might also add magnetism
    to alude to my proximity discussion above.  It all seems very exciting to me,
    not as a type designer, but just as an inquisitive human being.\r\n\r\nI quite
    agree that display spacing is different than text spacing.  This is why multiple
    axis designs are needed--not only for the change in glyph outlines but metrics
    as well. \r\nI think there is a point in display type where type designers must
    hand over the final spacing adjustments to the graphic designer/typographer setting
    the job.  The individual characters at the chosen size can cause an interaction
    requiring individual adjustment to suit the words, context, and intended meaning.
    Turning over your typeface to a graphic designer is like handing your child, who
    has grown to adulthood, over to the world having done the best we could as parents
    in the time we had to raise them :-)  I guess I must be suffering from empty nest
    syndrome :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-08 14:36:33'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Bill, are you aware of the Kindersley article \"Space Craft\" in <em>Visible
    Language</em> VII 4 (Autumn 1973)?\r\n\r\nI'll (re)read it later today to see
    if it clarifies anything. I think it probably won't because it is earlier by 3
    years, and probably shorter (13 pages in length). \r\n\r\nHis guiding principle
    seems to be: \r\n\"The advantages of optical spacing, with as little compromise
    as possible, are quite considerable. Letters form more cohesively into words and
    thus increase our pattern recognition.\" (page 314) \r\n\r\nHere he sounds a bit
    Ferlinghettiish:\r\n\"I am hoping for nothing less than a new typographical attitude
    to text faces--where alphabets are designed to fit together rather than to fit
    into rectangles. This means an appreciation of a letter's optical centre and the
    need to design a letter into the mathematical centre of it's space.\" \"In my
    opinion the next evolutionary step for our alphabet lies in spacing, conjunction,
    ligaturing, and kerning. Words will take the place of letters. [...] Research
    with the help of the opthalmologist is long overdue. The opthalmologist is aware
    that in 1973 no research has yet really revealed how the eye reads. Could anything
    be more important?\" (page 323f)\r\n\r\nAn abstract is <a href=\"http://www.id.iit.edu/visiblelanguage/VLCatalogueSearch/VLChronologicalTables/VolumeAbstracts07.html#spacecraft\">here</a>[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-05-08 18:12:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "DK was d man.\r\n\r\nWilliam, understanding this stuff requires a grasp the
    concept of moments.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-08 18:21:05'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Wasn't one of Kindersley's goals to build a system that could be used mechanically
    to get the gross spacing of a typeface out of the way, saving time? I could be
    thinking of someone else. I thought it was intended to automate spacing. \r\n\r\nAs
    with Gill's big, geometric drawings to guide signmakers in the underground, it
    could be a useful system in a specific application, but terribly misleading in
    another situation. "
  created: '2006-05-08 19:23:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">a grasp the concept of moments.\r\n\r\nIn what field is this theory? Where
    do I read about it?\r\n\r\nDoing a search on the internet, there seems to be a
    concept of moment in structural engineering different from the normal 'moment
    of inertia' in physics. But I don't see anything in these discussions about 'second
    moment' even in structural engineering having to do with a center. The rotation
    of an object normally seems to be around the center of gravity, so that would
    not be different from what he calls the 'first moment'. \r\n\r\nIn any case, it
    is his 'optical center' which is his key concept, and not this other stuff, so
    perhaps it doesn't matter.  \r\n\r\n>Kindersley article \u201CSpace Craft\u201D
    \r\n\r\nNo, I didn't know about this. Please let me know if it's any clearer.
    \ \r\n\r\nMy feeling is that he was on to something about the appropriate total
    space and centering being related to overall white space. But I'm not sure he
    really had a handle on it. \r\n\r\nHis idea of 'designing to the optical center'
    you quote means that he thought spacing could be interfered with by design. This
    seems correct, but did he discuss how to 'design to the optical center', giving
    examples of good and bad design? I don't see anything like this in the book, which
    would indeed be interesting.  \r\n"
  created: '2006-05-08 19:39:35'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "We had an awesome thread on these issues a year ago entitled <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/10191\">the
    bouma of space craft</a>. See also <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/9344\">Theory
    of Spacing</a>. [edit: I see William linked the first thread already.]\r\n\r\nBottom
    line, Kindersley's ideas are intriguing but seem unlikely to me to result in excellent
    spacing. Purely geometrical concepts like \"moment\" seem less useful as the basis
    for spacing than, say, spatial frequencies, which at least have some relation
    to the way the human visual system actually works.\r\n\r\nI don't understand the
    relevance of second and third moments. The standard definitions don't yield a
    position (as does the first moment), but rather a measure of how far away the
    \"mass\" is from the center. I'd probably get a better understanding of what Kindersley
    meant if I had his paper handy to read.\r\n\r\nDid you see <a href=\"http://www.spiked-magazine.co.uk/spiked4/holgate.htm\">this
    interview</a> with David Holgate, who worked with Kindersley on the spacing research?
    There's also a <a href=\"https://listserv.heanet.ie/cgi-bin/wa?A2=ind0109&L=typo-l&T=0&P=7028\">review</a>
    by our own hrant. I'm pretty sure one of the threads mentioned above linked <a
    href=\"http://www.ics.uci.edu/~eppstein/gina/kern.html\">this comp.fonts thread</a>,
    with fascinating input by Chuck Bigelow, John Hudson, and others, as well.\r\n\r\nIf
    you're doing the spacing work by hand, as opposed to trying to construct an automated
    system, then I think Tracy's approach is basically sound.\r\n\r\nLastly, you might
    be interested in trying <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/10317\">iKern</a>.
    I haven't heard much from Igino lately, but I think his ideas deserve wider exposure.\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-08 19:41:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I'll contribute more to this thread in the next few days, as time permits.
    I'll just say for now that I have, over the years, read everything that Kindersley
    wrote about spacing, and I have found it impossible to derive a clear picture
    of his system from anything that he wrote, whether in individual articles and
    pamphlets or taken as a whole.
  created: '2006-05-09 06:56:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks to Raph for the links and to Peter for a copy of 'Space Craft'.  And
    thanks, John, I am relieved to hear it is not just me who finds Kindersley difficult
    to decipher.\r\n\r\nReading 'Space Craft' and the interesting links of Raph, I
    am starting to get a grip on what Kindersley was up to. \r\n\r\nFirst, it seems
    that I got it wrong in my first post. Kindersley was measuring and working on
    only the black of the letter, not the counters. Here, from 'Space Craft' is a
    diagram of his light apparatus. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kindersley
    Diagram3_4041.gif]\r\n\r\nThe letter itself is transparent, and the background
    black, so his measurements are based only on the area within the outlines of the
    letter, not the counters. \r\n\r\nGiven that he is only looking at the 'black'
    (in reverse), I now understand why he kept trying different filters to weight
    the different parts. the filter he gives in the diagram has gradually less black
    and more transparancy at the outside. This gives more weight to the right and
    left extremes of the letter in determining the 'optical center'. \r\n\r\nBut it
    seems that he never found a filter that would automatically find the same 'optical
    center' that he could identify by his expert eye. \r\n\r\nI'll post further my
    tentative conclusions on Kindersley in a little while. "
  created: '2006-05-09 16:12:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Based on the additional information, especially John Hudson\u2019s interesting
    comments in the Raph\u2019s linked thread, here are my current hypotheses about
    Kindersley\u2019s work. \r\n\r\n1. It seems that the computer program based on
    Kindersley\u2019s researches was never taken up. In the interesting thread linked
    by Raph, one person includes an e-mail from 1992 by the company who owned the
    rights saying that the program was \u201Chard to implement in terms of getting
    the maths right every time, and choosing the correct variables to control the
    calculations.\u201D It sounds like it wasn\u2019t practical, whereas the stuff
    done by Zapf and URW was\u2014which has been incorporated into Adobe\u2019s \u2018optical
    spacing.\u2019\r\n \r\n2. Kindersley was a master letter and had great eyes for
    letter design and spacing. I suspect that his ideas of a natural \u2018optical
    centre\u2019 and ideal minimum advance width are sound, but that he never got
    them formalized into a practical algorithm, which was his goal. My guess is that
    he failed formalize his intuition because his efforts at formalization used only
    the black of the letters, didn\u2019t include the effect of the white on the black.
    His approach shown in the above diagram of the light box thus was fundamentally
    flawed. I suspect that to formalize the \u2018optical center\u2019 properly one
    would need to include both white and black\u2014that\u2019s maybe why it\u2019s
    different from the center of gravity of the black. \r\n \r\n3. Leaving aside the
    issue of making an algorithm to do spacing automatically, which I myself am not
    interested in pursuing, I suspect that the \u2018optical center\u2019 idea\u2014following
    intuition that includes the counters rather than a program--leads to somewhat
    different and probably better results than the \u2018equal area between the letters\u2019
    idea.\r\n \r\n4. The idea of designing around the optical center is fascinating,
    and may in the end be one of the most useful ideas he has. John, does he discuss
    this only in the Sassoon book, or is it elsewhere also? Can you describe the basic
    idea?\r\n\r\n5. Finally the ideal 'advance width' of a character design also raises
    the questions of designing the characters so the widths fit into a rhythm, and
    how best to do this. Perhaps the Fourier information can help here, but maybe
    also Kindersley's ideas. \r\n"
  created: '2006-05-09 19:43:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> used only the black of the letters\r\n\r\nNot really, if you think about
    it.\r\nHis system essentially processes notan.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-09 19:45:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">His system essentially processes notan.\r\n\r\nHow can that be when his
    light meter only receives information about light going within the outline of
    the letter?\r\n\r\nedit: I mean his efforts at formalization, not his intuition,
    which I'm sure did process both black and white. "
  created: '2006-05-09 19:51:08'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"My guess is that he failed formalize his intuition because his efforts
    at formalization used only the black of the letters.\"\r\n\r\nBill, how could
    Kindersley have believed \"[...] my system differs from any other in that it takes
    into account the space* <em>inside</em> a letter, as does the eye.\"\r\n\r\n*
    \"space as a tangible factor, equal in importance to the letter itself.\"[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-05-09 20:03:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "William, I'll need to dig out my Kindersley notes and publications to refresh
    my memory. I suspect your analysis is correct: Kindersley's ideas never got as
    far as an implementable algorithm that would give reliable results. I think this
    is why it is so hard to make sense of what he wrote: he was writing around the
    fact that it didn't really work.\r\n\r\nI've been meaning to discuss this stuff
    with Eiichi Kono, who knew Kindersley (and his wife) quite well, and may be more
    familiar with the unpublished side of things.\r\n\r\nIn my own experiments, I
    found the optical centre spacing based on the uppercase R as explained in the
    Sassoon book to be quite good for spacing caps-to-caps. I met Sassoon in 2002,
    but didn't think to ask her about Kindersley's spacing. I wonder if she understood
    it any better than we do. Actually, I wonder if anyone ever understood it, or
    whether it was briefly a popular topic for publication because it sounds impressive.\r\n\r\nI
    do appreciate very much Kindersley's point in the <em>Visible Language</em> article
    about consistent spacing being more important than letter outline integrity, i.e.
    that letters should be allowed to collide and overlap if this maintains consistent
    spacing."
  created: '2006-05-09 20:10:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter: <em>how could Kindersley have believed \u201C[\u2026] my system differs
    from any other in that it takes into account the space* inside a letter, as does
    the eye.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nBy wanting to believe it? As I've remarked before,
    almost every type designer and lettering artist will wax lyrical about the importance
    of the white, of the equal status of the white relative to the black, and about
    'designing the white', but if you look at actual design processes and, in this
    case, mechanical processes, it is hard to find evidence of practical application
    of such ideas. [This is why something like Legato stands out so much: Evert actually
    did design the white.]"
  created: '2006-05-09 20:20:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> almost every type designer and lettering artist will wax lyrical ...\r\n\r\nThat
    is SO true, it's sad.\r\n\r\nAnd foremost in this lip service are the chirographers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-09 20:36:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Bill, how could Kindersley have believed \u201C[\u2026] my system differs
    from any other in that it takes into account the space* inside a letter, as does
    the eye.\u201D\r\n\r\n>* \u201Cspace as a tangible factor, equal in importance
    to the letter itself.\u201D\r\n\r\nHere is my reading of these. In the first quote
    (p. 320) he is refering to the space *within* the outlines of the letter, what
    is normally black, but is reversed within his light box set up. He is in particular
    not referring to the counters, which his system does not directly take into account.
    \r\n\r\nThe second quote comes from earlier in the essay, and there he is indeed
    talking about space, but primarily about spacing between letters, which is supposed
    to be indicated by his system. He does mention also designing letters with too
    much space within, so he clearly thought his system did take into account the
    internal spacing also, and you and Hrant are right that he *wanted* his system
    to. \r\n\r\nBut does he actually take space into account effectively? \r\n\r\nThe
    only element that takes into account counter space was his 'inverse square law'
    for his 'wedge' filters.  As I understand it--and that is not so much!--it works
    like this: The wedge has a density of vertical lines or or dots that is concentrated
    at the center, and then falls off to the right and left (but not vertically) in
    the inverse square law. \r\n\r\nThis means that much more light is transmitted
    by the parts of the letters that extend farther to the left and right of the center
    of the filter. So for example sliding a letter to the left and right in front
    of the wedge, when one puts the the vertical of the L near the center of the wedge,
    it is shaded quite a bit, whereas the right end of the leg is quite bright. Thus
    the 'optical centre,' when the light to the right and left of the light box is
    equal, is further to the right than would be center of gravity. \r\n\r\nI haven't
    tried doing calculations, but I think that is the only way space within the counters
    are taken into account.\r\n\r\nAnd this doesn't, I think, deal effectively with
    the real optical centre as he would get it by eye, or the adjustments that he
    admitted you had to make after doing his system. John points out that the algorithm
    at least as explained in Sassoon doesn't take into account  that the thin sides
    of the N would normally get less space than the thick stems of the H. This involves
    the 'ideal minimum advance width' as I noted. But his later system doesn't seem
    to even have attempted to capture this, but rather the system using the upper
    case R, which only uses the 'optical center' and the actual extension of the leg.\r\n\r\nI
    thought he earlier idea was that he could even tell you how long the leg should
    be, which would be really informative. \r\n\r\nSo, Hrant and Peter, I do think
    he wanted to take into account space within counters, but did so only indirectly
    and unsuccessfully.\r\n\r\nI think that his approach was heavily influenced by
    the fact that he was a letterer and not a type designer. He thought that all type
    was spaced badly and that photo type, doing away with the metal body, finally
    allowed proper spacing as a letterer would do. So far so good. But type designers,
    even into the pantagraphic punch cut days, thought of letters as done by a process
    of subtraction from a metal block, rather than by addition of ink to paper. Thus
    they naturally focused strongly on counter space. Kindersley took an 'ink' approach
    and I think the problem is basically that 'you can't get there from here' with
    that approach.       "
  created: '2006-05-09 20:55:24'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant: <em>And foremost in this lip service are the chirographers.</em>\r\n\r\nGerrit
    Noordzij (Letterletter [H&M: page 4]): \"David Kindersley has invented the first
    system that simulates the calligrapher's perception.\"[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-05-09 22:09:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And I'm Queen Nefertiti.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-09 22:21:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I\u2019m Queen Nefertiti\r\n\r\nWell, now I finally understand why you're
    a monarchist :)"
  created: '2006-05-09 22:55:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-09 23:37:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ok, so the penny just dropped on how you can use the 'second moment' or 'moment
    of inertia' in defining an optical center. \r\n\r\nThe first moment is the mass
    at a point times the lever arm. The second moment is the mass times the length
    of the lever arm, squared. \r\n\r\nNow think of the letter as solid, with a uniform
    depth and density, and it is fixed to the baseline. If you slide a fulcrum left
    and right along the base line, then at some point you get the summing up  of the
    first moment (mass at a point X length of lever arm) to the right and left the
    same. That is under the center of gravity. \r\n\r\nIf instead you use the second
    moment (mass X length of lever arm squared), then in assymetrical letters you
    will get a different point from the center of gravity when the fulcrum will balance
    the sum of the moments of inertia to the left and right of the fulcrum. The point
    of equality will be different because you are weighting the parts of the letter
    more distant from the fulcrum much more heavily. \r\n\r\nSo that is what his light
    box was doing--it was an analogue method of doing the calculus to find out the
    point at which the sum of the second moments would balance on two sides of a line
    through the letter. \r\n\r\nAnd you could do the same for a third moment, using
    the cube of the distance from the optical center. With the help of a scientist,
    Kindersley was able to print out a 'wedge' or filter that would do the analogue
    calculation for that, as well, using his light box. This would weight the more
    distant parts of the letter from the center even more heavily. \r\n\r\nSo it all
    makes sense now. The only problem is that in the end it doesn't seem to have worked
    in capturing the more accurate intuition of Kindersley in identifying optical
    centers and spacing letters. It needed too many qualifications and exceptions.\r\n\r\nI'm
    going to re-read the monograph now that I understand the basic concept. \r\n\r\nRight
    now my working hypothesis is that the optical center is one factor in good spacing,
    and there are others such as roughly equal area between letters. What I think
    may be worth pursuing here is the idea of 'designing around the optical center'.
    \r\n\r\nIt can happen with a design of a letter that when the side bearings give
    approximately equal area with other letters, the optical center of a letter is
    not in the middle of the advance space. This would mean that you haven't 'designed
    to the optical center', and the letter should be redrawn. \r\n\r\nKindersley's
    ideas about ideal advance width, and how these relate to rhythm in type is also
    an interesting question. \r\n\r\nOverall, my feeling is now more positive that
    there are valuable things to be learned from Kindersley's effort, even if in the
    end it didn't work. \r\n "
  created: '2006-05-10 18:23:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Ps. Also I should change my answer to Peter, above. Now I think he was talking
    about counter space more than I acknowledged above. I just suspect he was some
    distance from capturing its true impact. '
  created: '2006-05-10 18:42:09'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "William, thanks for the clarifications.\r\n\r\n\"Now think of the letter
    as solid [...]\"\r\nThe problem with this is how to determine the 'extent' of
    the white in partially enclosed forms like the 'c': where does the space inside
    the letter end and the interletter space between the 'c' and it's neighbour begin?\r\n\r\nAnother
    issue is deciding the dimension of the advance. Is it a pure measure from the
    optical centre, or does it vary from letter to letter, which it must, I would
    think, in a proportional font. The Kindersley method seems to hold out the promise
    of a consistent spacing mechanism but does it also contain an method for determining
    how wide letter spaces should be?\r\n\r\nGerrit Noordzij wants to use the space
    inside the letter as the benchmark. The space inside tha letterforms and the space
    between them must be in synchronicity.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-05-10 20:13:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">The problem with this is how to determine the \u2018extent\u2019 of the
    white in partially enclosed forms like the \u2018c\u2019\r\n\r\nPeter, as I understand
    it, all the calculations are based on the black. The white is only taken into
    account indirectly by the use of the 'moments' in the calculation of the optical
    center of the black. That he was able to get so far without directly looking at
    the white is what is intriguing about his approach. \r\n\r\nIf I am getting it
    right, it starts from an opposite approach from Gerrit Noordzij. Now the black
    and white are defined by the same stroke, so perhaps it is not a total surprise
    that you can start with one or the other and get similar results. But I am still
    surprised that Kindersley's approach was able to get anywhere at all. \r\n\r\nMy
    guess is that both black and white do make contributions, and that Kindersley
    and Noordzij both have a part of the truth, but how much I don't know. \r\n\r\nIncidentally,
    in now re-reading Kindersley's 1976 edition of 'Optical  letterspacing', which
    I am now mostly understanding, he does discuss designing around the optical center.
    More later. "
  created: '2006-05-10 20:35:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The space inside tha letterforms and the space between them must be in
    synchronicity.\r\n\r\nNo, the notans of potential boumas must be\r\nin \"synchronicity\"
    with our reading firmware.\r\n\r\nThe relationship between adjacent whites is
    kid's play, just like the\r\ngeneral misguided practice of making the blacks formally
    harmonious.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-10 21:50:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>No, the notans of potential boumas must be in \u201Csynchronicity\u201D
    with our reading firmware.</em>\r\n\r\nPractically, what does that mean?\r\n\r\nI
    think the statement, accepting your usage of notans and boumas, is true, but it
    seems to be true in the same way as 'the amount of oxygen in the atmosphere must
    be in \"synchronicity\" with out breathing firmware'; i.e. it doesn't tell us
    anything about how to achieve this synchronicity. Such a statement also doesn't
    tell us anything about our breathing firmware's tolerance for greater or lesser
    proportions of oxygen."
  created: '2006-05-11 03:37:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "At the very least, it tells us that forming the black (even while minding
    the white) is arbitrary. <cite>Practically</cite>, it tells us for example that
    the Letterror \"shading\" technique (which you've said you sometimes use in actual
    design, if only at a conceptual stage) has no bearing on what [I believe] is the
    main function of text type: to be read. So <cite>practically</cite> it tells you
    to stop doing that. It would in fact be a lot less bad if you \"fleshed out\"
    your black with circular motions. Even random motion would be better than simulating
    a broad-nib pen! As one of my favorite riddles goes: \"What's the difference between
    a headless chicken and FILL-IN-THE-BLANK?\" Answer: \"A headless chicken has a
    random chance of going in the right direction.\"\r\n\r\nBut really, <cite>most
    practically</cite>:\r\nFor starters let's just work on grasping -and admitting-
    this original truth, shall we?\r\n\r\n> \u2018the amount of oxygen in the atmosphere
    must be\r\n> in \u201Csynchronicity\u201D with out breathing firmware\u2019\r\n\r\nThat's
    not such a bad parallel.\r\nAnd also parallel: the oxygen in the atmosphere doesn't\r\nneed
    to be in synchronicity with the oxygen on Mars.\r\nThe problem in type design
    is we still imagine that\r\nour Mars is teeming with life.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-11 04:10:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Less practically, but [as a result] more fundamentally:\r\nWe have been told
    by the chirographers that the insistence of contemporary type design technologies
    on having us draw outlines is contrary to how type should be designed. I say to
    you: we are <cite>blessed</cite> because we can now draw outlines - that is the
    direct access to the backbone of notan.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-11 04:15:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>We have been told by the chirographers that the insistence of contemporary
    type design technologies on having us draw outlines is contrary to how type should
    be designed.</em>\r\n\r\nWho? Where?\r\n\r\n<em>I say to you: we are blessed because
    we can now draw outlines - that is the direct access to the backbone of notan.</em>\r\n\r\nAs
    is cutting metal punches. The making of type has almost never been a chirographic
    process, regardless of the designer's <em>thinking</em> about letterforms. In
    fact, only stroke-based font technologies are not firmly outline-based."
  created: '2006-05-11 04:39:27'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "William wrote: <cite>Ok, so the penny just dropped</cite> about this \"moment\"
    concept. Yes, that makes a tremendous amount of sense, and it's also clear how
    the photographic filter wedge + light sensor technology could measure these quantities.
    That said, my intuition is telling me that it's far too crude a measure to be
    the primary basis for good spacing, as it does not take proximity into account
    at all, among other things.\r\n\r\nhrant: I must confess that I find some of your
    recurring themes to be frustrating because, to me, they're too vague and slippery.
    The use of the word \"notan\" to describe dark/light relationship sounds nice,
    but what does it actually <em>mean</em>? As to whether Kindersley's machine is
    measuring the black or white, I think you'll find that it doesn't actually matter.
    If you measured, say, a letter and its inverse image, you'd find that the sum
    of the two light flux quantities would be exactly the same as all-white. So, saying
    that it measures notan, black, or white brings no real insight to the table.\r\n\r\nSimilarly
    for your insistance that stroke is secondary to outline. What does that <em>mean</em>
    in practice? That good fonts are not slavishly chirographic (in that the character
    shape should not just be a convolution between a static pen outline and a zero-width
    path)? We already knew that - all non-strawman presentations of chirography discuss
    include the principle that the pen shape is <em>not</em> fixed, but varies.\r\n\r\nOne
    reason I've come to believe that chirography <em>is</em> important is that my
    visual system seems to be very good at doing a chirographic analysis or decomposition
    of an outline, let's say for example the lower right serif of a 60pt metal Centaur
    capital K. Even though the modulation of outline is extremely subtle, my eye seems
    to have no difficulty seeing that, at the very right side, the stroke is a continuation
    of the main diagonal stroke of the K, but the rest of that part of the outline
    belongs to the horizontal stroke comprising the bottom-right serif. Further, it
    makes intuitive sense to me that the human visual system is going to be very good
    at this kind of analysis, in parallel, and with extremely high bandwidth. Quick,
    which branch belongs to which tree? You'll care if you need to climb a tree suddenly
    because a tiger is chasing you.\r\n\r\nTo convince me that \"outline is more important
    than chirography\" is more than a platitude will take a more detailed argument,
    with at least the possibility of empirical verification, than I've seen you advance.
    And I believe that one of the best tests for theories of readability, or type
    perception in general, is an algorithm that accurately predicts the perception
    of spacing."
  created: '2006-05-11 05:12:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Re-reading  \u2018Optical spacing\u2019 by Kindersley, I now have a better
    grip on two important points I didn\u2019t get earlier. \r\n\r\n1.\tHow he determined
    the advance width of characters. \r\n2.\tThe idea of designing a character to
    the optical center. \r\n\r\nAdvance width. \r\n\r\nHe used the light box to try
    to set the advance width of characters, but in the end it didn\u2019t fully work.
    His method was to measure the total light coming through a letter (in reverse,
    clear on black) after going through his \u2018wedge\u2019 filter--with the optical
    center of the letter at the center of the wedge, if I understand it rightly. \r\n\r\nHe
    then put clear rectangles surrounded by black in front of the wedge. These were
    the same height as the letters in the case of the caps, but of varying widths.
    The width of rectangle that gave the same light as the letter was the basis for
    the advance width. To it was added a fixed amount that was determined by checking
    the minimum space that the most asymmetrical letter, L (later R, reports John)
    would take to be centered on its optical center without kerning. \r\n\r\nThere
    had to be changes for the lower case, but even for the caps he reports that he
    had problems with O and the C. The O was consistently spaced slightly too widely
    using the \u2018second moment\u2019 wedge filter. The C with serifs was also placed
    off center slightly, as the optical center as determined by eye was to the right
    of where indicated by the filter. \r\n\r\nIn order to compensate for his filter
    giving wrong results, he stuck with the inverse square filter, as it seemed to
    him \u201Cintuitively right\u201D, but started changing its shape to various rings
    and frames. At this point the thing seemed so ad hoc to me that I lost interest.
    In my view stubbornly sticking to a refuted theory instead of looking elsewhere
    was a fundamental mistake. \r\nLater I will post on \u2018designing to the optical
    center\u2019, which may be in the end Kindersley's most important idea, and my
    overall conclusions so far.  \r\n"
  created: '2006-05-11 13:54:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "William,\r\nThank you for your diligent persuit of this.  This sounds like
    a great paper to present at Typecon or elsewhere.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-11 14:26:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/poutine2_3572.jpg]\r\nHelvetica has greater
    divergence in its \"round\" and \"straight\" side-bearing widths than News Gothic.
    This is shown in the top example.\r\n\r\nIn the bottom example I reversed the
    situation.\r\n(Note: I eyeballed this, so it may not be totally accurate, but
    it does show the difference.)"
  created: '2006-05-11 16:06:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Interesting, Nick. That does follow what I quote below from Kindersley, as
    Helvetica has wider round letters than Trade Gothic, if I am seeing right. \r\n\r\nHere's
    my next-to-last installment of 'my book report':\r\n\r\nThe first edition of the
    \u2018Optical Spacing\u2019 monograph was in 1966, and the second, 1976, which
    I now have a photocopy of, has a final section \u2018after 10 years.\u2019 There
    is a final 2001 edition, edited by his widow, which must have additional material,
    but I can\u2019t find any copy around here (Washington DC area). \r\n\r\nIn the
    \u2018after 10 years\u2019 section Kindersley starts sounding much more like Walter
    Tracy and Gerrit Noordzij.  First of all he notes that \u2018hand spacing\u2019
    will give more letter space to the combination ii, and then progressively a hair
    less to the nn, mm and the oo, the last of which has the least space of all. He
    comments:\r\n\r\n\u201C Obviously the letter form with the largest internal space
    to stroke ratio needs the least space outside of itself like the \u2018O\u2019.
    \ Whereas a letter such and an \u2018I\u2019 needs all of its space externally.
    \u2026The human eye sees the whole letter and requires a space outside that letter
    consistent with the dispersed black and white in the letter. \u2026The bolder
    and more condensed the letter form\u2014take \u2018black\u2019 letter\u2014the
    more consistent the spaces. The thinner or lighter the stoke and the more extended
    the \u2018letter form\u2019 the greater the variation of spaces. The effect of
    paying attention to this natural optical characteristic is to give the page a
    remarkable consistent colour and at the same time avoid the \u2018picket fence\u2019
    look of many type faces.\u201D\r\n\r\nThis is interesting and seems sound, but
    as far as I can tell none of this derives from his optical light box measurements,
    but rather from his practiced eye. So my general conclusion is that Kindersley\u2019s
    efforts at an algorithm were a bust, but that he has a lot of interesting insights.
    So I think the thing is to look past the mess of the failed algorithm, and at
    the ideas.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ll post next on what I have found most interesting, the
    idea of \u2018designing to the optical centre.\u2019 \r\n"
  created: '2006-05-11 16:12:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Concerning the balance of positive and negative space, it's not possible
    to speak of the spacing of letters, as if the glyphs are designed first and then
    the spaces added after. The spacing and letterforms are conceived of as a related
    whole, and the relationships between them are a matter of judgement on the part
    of the designer.\r\n\r\nAs you say Bill, Kindersley appears to be looking for
    a general principle which explains the consensus of judgements exhibited in the
    canon of best-practice faces. But I'm not sure there is a consensus: does Chalkboard
    play Helvetica to Comic Sans' News Gothic?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/poutine3_6032.jpg]"
  created: '2006-05-11 16:54:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it\u2019s not possible to speak of the spacing of letters, as if the\r\n>
    glyphs are designed first and then the spaces added after.\r\n\r\nExcept that's
    how almost everybody does it.  :-/\r\nYou're talking about what <cite>should</cite>
    be the case, not what is.\r\n\r\nAnd what about kerning? That affects everything
    too, but you'd be very hard-pressed to\r\nfind a designer who doesn't follow the
    tired old \"space first, kern later/sort-of\" routine.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-11 17:53:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...Helvetica has wider round letters than Trade Gothic...\"\r\n\r\nNot
    only that but Trade has flatter sides in the O which means there are more points
    in proximity than Helvetica's more rounded O.  A more drastic example is comparing
    a very round Futura to the flat-sided Din O.  It is not just a matter of a more
    open and larger counter space but the actual shape of the space.  The flatter
    the vertical sides of the O, the larger the sidebearings should be and conversely.
    This is true even if it is not a condensed face.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-11 17:56:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>you\u2019d be very hard-pressed to find a designer who doesn\u2019t follow
    the tired old \u201Cspace first, kern later/sort-of\u201D routine.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    the physical sequence, but I suspect that most experienced type designers are
    aware, when they're setting sidebearings, of how kerning may subsequently be used
    to help smooth things out, and work accordingly. Also, when doing kerning, it
    sometimes becomes apparent that kerning won't fix a situation, and one has to
    go back and change the sidebearings, or even the glyph shape. That's something
    that I often have to do when designing an f that will work with the f_i ligature
    to form ffi, and also as a non-ligated f + i, and as part of an f_i ligature.
    A lot of back-and-forthing."
  created: '2006-05-11 18:46:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "[my longest post ever--hopefully worth it!]\r\n\r\nNick, I think Kindersley
    is trying to capture best practice in lettering\u2014not type--and bring that
    to type. He thought type was badly spaced. I don\u2019t think knew the tradition
    in type spacing, at least at first. As Tracy notes, his own type founder\u2019s
    approach to spacing goes back hundreds of years, at least to Fournier. The metal
    type problem of a single set of side-bearings for a letter is a non-problem for
    the letterer, as he or she is hand spacing each letter, and can also vary the
    shape of the letter. But because so many compromises do not need to be made, the
    letterer can try to get much closer to perfection in spacing. And this means that
    maybe lettering masters like Kindersley had a better eye for what the ideal is.
    Then when photo type and then digital type came along, the forced compromises
    of metal were a bit relaxed. So there was an opening for Kindersley to make a
    contribution. And I think he did, though the \u2018system\u2019 didn\u2019t work.
    \r\n\r\nIs the idea of \u2018optical centre\u2019 valid? I do think there is something
    to it, at least for roman type, which sits on a base line. We have an instinctive
    sense of center of gravity\u2014where to pick up an object where it will balance.
    And I think that this affects what we see as balanced in type. However, I suspect
    that the reason that the optical center is sometimes a bit off from the center
    of gravity is because of the opening of counters. I think this affects somehow
    what we see as \u2018the letter\u2019, and so its balance. So an algorithm that
    captures Kindersley\u2019s idea would need to include white space in its calculations.
    It might even work with calculations on white only\u2014which was my initial misreading
    of Kindersley. \r\n\r\n\r\nGiven that the idea of \u2018optical centre\u2019 has
    something to it, I think Kindersley\u2019s most interesting stuff is on \u2018designing
    to the centre\u2019. \r\n \r\nHis basic principle of spacing is \u201Ceach letter
    should appear to be exactly in the centre between its two neighbors. \u2026To
    me this is the only criterion.\u201D As we will see, he also brings in even color
    for considering the correct advance width, but what is notable here is that he
    leaves out proximity or equality of white space between letters. \r\n\r\n\u2018Designing
    to the centre\u2019: \u201CThe secret of a good fit and an economical one lies
    precisely in moving the optical centre towards the mathematical center.\u201D
    \ By \u2018moving\u2019 he means changing the design of the letter to shift the
    optical center. By the \u2018mathematical center\u2019 I believe he means equal
    distance from the sides of the letter (not the side bearings). Thus designing
    to the center means bring the optical center of the letter, in so far as possible,
    to the center of the letter. Thus \u2018designing to the center\u2019 involves
    designing a *balanced asymmetry* in the glyph. \r\n\r\nThe following is his example,
    a discussion of the \u2018L\u2019.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/KindersleyDiagram4_4062.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    interesting thing here is that adding a serif to the leg of the L *decreases*
    the space needed to the left of the L, by moving the optical center more to the
    right. One of the interesting features of this analysis is that it focuses on
    the black of the letter, and shows how focusing on the distribution of the black
    is critical to good design. \r\n\r\nAlso this analysis opens the way to understanding
    an important function in the design of serifs and varying weight. For example
    what is the point of the tail of the \u2018a\u2019? Easy to answer if follow Kindersley,
    but who else has an answer? The tail of the \u2018a\u2019 moves the optical center
    of the \u2018a\u2019 nearer to the center of the glyph. Same with making the top
    arm of the \u2018a\u2019 shorter than the bowl.     \r\n\r\nAs John notes above,
    Kindersley's strictness on optical centers leads him to downgrade adjusting spaces
    because of proximity. He first designs an upper case wide enough so that no kerning
    is needed. \u2013It is interesting in this context that Tschichold regarded tight
    spacing of caps as a flat blunder. If you want to track closer, then Kindersley
    says it is better to keep the optical centers in the middle of the side bearings,
    and overlap the blacks of photo or digital characters, rather than re-space to
    avoid contact. \r\n\r\nSo take for example the letter \u2018r\u2019. Does it threaten
    to contact letters to the right? Well then shorten the arm and thicken the end
    of it. Done together, these will give you better asymmetrical balance\u2014bringing
    the optical center more to the middle of the letter\u2014and it will space better.
    Pretty powerful concepts, I think. \r\n\r\nA second feature of \u2018designing
    to the centre\u2019 involves even color. Kindersley comments on the demand in
    photo type for a limited number of advance widths:\r\n\r\n\u201CThe space allotted
    to any character must ideally be an expression of that character. Therefore it
    would also be true that, if the space is predetermined, the letter must be an
    expression of the space. In other words, the intensity of two characters that
    are to occupy similar spaces must be equal for the retina. This does not mean,
    of course, that the designs must be similar, but that their weight expressed in
    moment terms around a centre must be equal. If therefore it is desirable to produce
    an alphabet with only six widths, it is equally desirable that the letters have
    only six different weights, if spacing and color are considered important.\u201D\r\n\r\nI
    think it also follows from his thinking that the different width characters will
    also have proportionally different weights, so the whole alphabet will have even
    color, even while it will have characters that are quite divergent from one another
    and often quite asymmetrical in shape.\r\n\r\nI first was drawn to look up Kindersley\u2019s
    work when I saw the \u2018C\u2019 diagram above--I'm not sure where--and was intrigued
    that he had a different approach to spacing than the traditional type one, and
    especially that he didn\u2019t focus on avoiding contact and uniformity of inter-letter
    spacing. While these are valid concerns, I think a lot may still be learned and
    creatively extended from Kindersley\u2019s approach.   "
  created: '2006-05-11 18:57:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick is right.  It is not a linear process.  Some glyphs are apt to space
    quickly while others need numerous revisions to either outline, sidebearings,
    or kerning (or all).  The ones with holes and single protrusions like f, r, T,
    L, P, 7, etc., are more likely to need multiple surgeries than H or n.  I find
    that the first drawing of the glyph outlines is the quickest part of the process.
    The endless tinkering afterwards eats up the hours.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-11 19:03:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">multiple surgeries \r\n\r\nYeah, why I'm glad that I took a day and a half
    to figure out Kindersley is that I think he helps us think about how to do those
    surgeries well. "
  created: '2006-05-11 19:08:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "So I guess you are ready for your scrubs now William?  :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-11 19:37:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> A lot of back-and-forthing.\r\n\r\nYes, iteration. That's much more accurate
    than your first claim\r\nin terms of what really happens, but not really the same
    thing\r\n(and still not as good) as thinking about things all at once.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-11 20:00:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>but not really the same thing (and still not as good) as thinking about
    things all at once.</em>\r\n\r\nOne part of the design process, the overall conception
    of how positive and negative space function in a particular typeface, can't be
    \"better\" than another part, the practical business of refining and real-izing
    how that conception works, letter by letter. They involve different kinds of thought,
    interrelated, indispensible."
  created: '2006-05-11 20:33:15'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Bill, Thanks for following this through. I'm intrigued by several things,
    but wonder above all if Kindersley brings this back around to the comment in \"Space
    Craft\" I quoted above: \u201CThe advantages of optical spacing, with as little
    compromise as possible, are quite considerable. Letters form more cohesively into
    words and thus increase our pattern recognition.\u201D (page 314)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-05-11 20:43:29'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]'
  created: '2006-05-11 20:44:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Yes, Peter, I do think that his analysis of evenness of color and good spacing
    have a lot to do with success in the 'letters forming cohesively into words'.
    How to test its truth is another story :)  \r\n\r\nBut in particular I think his
    analysis may help us understand the advantages in readability of traditional stressed,
    seriffed type over sans serif. His theory gives an important function to serifs
    and varied weighting in spacing, which I haven't seen elsewhere.   "
  created: '2006-05-11 20:53:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> One part of the design process ...\r\n\r\nIt's not a different <cite>part</cite>,
    it's a different <cite>way</cite> of designing a\r\nfont. And one way can certainly
    be better (at least in some\r\naspect, for example readability, or style) than
    another.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-11 20:58:03'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>Given that the idea of \u2018optical centre\u2019 has something to
    it, I think Kindersley\u2019s most interesting stuff is on \u2018designing to
    the centre\u2019.</cite>\r\n... plus the examples of flatter and rounder sided
    o's. Plus the L forms with longer/shorter horizontal bar and with/without serif:\r\n\r\nMy
    first thought was -- you can view this from an optical-center point of view, but
    you can also view this from a compactness-of-letterforms point of view! (The older
    thread which touched the spacing of italics.) The first looks at letters and their
    center, the second looks at inter-letter-spacing. This might also shed some light
    on David Kindersley's vs URW/Adobe's spacing method.\r\nFrom the second point
    of view, it weren't even necessary that the L \"serif\" be that fat. It were more
    important that the serif is not too short so it can \"close\" the letterform.
    That in mind, E C L Z of serifed alphabets are easier to space than the equivalents
    of sanserifs which are more \"open\" (say, Baskerville C vs Gill Sans C).\r\n\r\nHow
    important is the optical-center aspect really, in spacing praxis? I cannot help
    regarding it as a mere side-effect. It doesn't tell anything about the amount
    of space actually needed -- and I was told that Mr Kindersley indeed did not care
    whether letters are spaced tighter or rather open. However, by his method he would
    run into serious trouble when spacing tightly, i.e. for today's eyes, \"normal\"
    spacing.&nbsp;&nbsp;:) \r\n\r\nWhat I find most helpful though is the \"how to\"
    example he gave in the Penrose Annual article: OI / OII / OIIIO / OI(anyletter)IO.
    I added IO(anyletter)OI, and this is the method by which I space uppercase letters
    for uppercase context.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2006-05-11 22:13:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Karsten, I don't know what exactly is the basis of the URW/Adobe method.
    If it is based on 'electrostatic repulsion', as one person in Raph's linked thread
    mentioned, then it mainly pushes away the contact points as they near. I can see
    that a heavier serif on the L shouldn't make so much of a difference in this method.
    But would even the sans L be spaced that differently from a serif L in the URW
    method? I think Kindersley's point about the L was that the whole cap alphabet
    could then be tracked closer, as L is a limiting character, and have balance.
    As far as its place between side bearings, it means you can shift it relatively
    more left, compared to a sans of the same dimension. Would the URW method do that?
    I don't think Tracy's method would recommend it. Would it be good?\r\n\r\nThe
    OI OII etc stuff is also in 'Optical Spacing', but it seems not as connected with
    the theory, which is why I didn't go into it. It does seem quite useful, though.\r\n\r\nIs
    the optical center stuff a mere side effect? Again, since according to Tracy's
    method the side bearings are related to the inner space of the n or H, there is
    some degree of equivalence between the two approaches. I think where Kindersley
    may have something helpful is on changing weights of things and serifs, which
    I don't see Tracy as giving direction on. \r\n\r\nI certainly don't want to be
    dogmatic about who has it right. I was just excited that here is a fellow with
    a different approach, and it seems to give some different insights. But I would
    be happy to hear where he is wrong. \r\n\r\nI don't see why his method would get
    into trouble with tight spacing, as he gives some examples of that. He does avocate
    having the L overlap the A in LA rather than pushing it out, if the rest of the
    characters are tracked tight enough to demand it. Is this what you mean by trouble?
    \r\n\r\nAs far as practicality, I think Tracy is the way to go for a first or
    second pass. But when it comes to making adjustments, especially to modifying
    the character's design for the sake of spacing, it looks to me like Kindersley's
    ideas could be helpful. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-11 23:03:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'A note regarding the spacing of Helvetica: the digital Helvetica inherits
    its advanced widths from the unitised spacing of Linotype''s phototype version.
    This accounts for the irregularities in the spacing.'
  created: '2006-05-12 05:21:47'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Yes, I had the LA overlap in mind when calling this combination problematic.
    L is indeed a \"special case\", but it may be similar for V W Y if Mr Kindersley's
    method is combined with spacing tighter than in his examples. Of course one can
    overlap letters -- if one likes this. Of course one can add heavy serifs to sanserif
    L's -- if one like this.&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)\r\n\r\n<cite>Is the optical center stuff
    a mere side effect? Again, since according to Tracy\u2019s method the side bearings
    are related to the inner space of the n or H, there is some degree of equivalence
    between the two approaches.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere is no contradiction. According
    to a more recent article by Peter Karow, of 1998, the \"atomic model\" (repulsion/attraction)
    element was completely kicked out of the URW spacing tool, which thus only uses
    the concept of inter-letter-space as a \"viscose liquid\" (Karow's terms). And
    -- here we are with Kindersley, Tschichold, Tracy again -- the space this viscose
    liquid covers should approximate the counter of the O for uppercase, or n for
    lowercase letters, and vary slightly with type size.\r\nI really like the Kindersley
    model for it allows a fresh look at spacing, but it has its limits which you pointed
    out in your posts. To me, this is not a question of right or wrong, or Kindersley
    vs URW. What is of interest to me is, which method would work: Earlier I had hoped
    that in future it would be possible to not space letters at all on font level,
    but just define some \"core spaces\" -- inbetween uppercase letters, inbetween
    lowercase letters, and maybe some other contexts, plus a factor for type size
    -- and the type rasterizer would do the actual spacing job based on something
    like the URW method. Meanwhile I doubt that this is possible, or wanted.\r\n\r\nAs
    to Tracy, it is some time back since I read the text. This was when I also studied
    Kindersley's and URW's methods. In direct comparison with these, I couldn't help
    finding Tracy's a bit trivial, helpful only as a very basic introduction. Maybe
    it's time to re-read it.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2006-05-12 15:34:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">viscose liquid\r\n\r\nIs this the idea that you 'pour' sand or a liquid
    between the letters, and the space filled up should be the same--one for caps
    one for lc? --presumably they make a decision on how far they assume the liquid
    penetrates open counters like the C. \r\n\r\nIt was some dissatisfaction with
    this that led me to look at Kindersley. I think his idea of having the character
    look balanced between the other letters is not the same as the 'area' approach.
    In particular my feeling is that where the counter fits between the letters is
    important (this is me, not Kindersley), and this may 'fight' with the standard
    of the area between letters being equal. \r\n\r\nSo I am looking for some rationale
    for how to compromise these competing ideals--both of which are probably desirable.
    What Kinderley has made be aware of this the way the black is distributed has
    an effect also. \r\n\r\nAt present, I don't have any guideline or principle to
    come out of this, but when I eyeball this stuff, I'm now looking at the area between
    the letters, the position of the counter, and the distribution of the black. And
    I consider how modifying the shape of the letter might make the different ideals
    not fight with each other. \r\n\r\nIncidentally, I do suspect that in the cold
    metal punch cutting days in designing they were concerned with the balance of
    the individual letter between its left and right extremes, as Kindersley has it.
    This is because setting side bearings was a separate production process involving
    'justifying' the matrices.  "
  created: '2006-05-12 16:07:31'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>Is this the idea that you \u2018pour\u2019 sand or a liquid between
    the letters, and the space filled up should be the same\u2014one for caps one
    for lc? \u2014presumably they make a decision on how far they assume the liquid
    penetrates open counters like the C.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn principle, yes. As to the
    URW approach, the adjective \"viscose\" is essential -- the space has some resistance.
    This addresses the C. And to my knowledge, a couple of exceptions are required.
    The \"different spaces for LC and UC\" however is my addition, I don't know if
    the URW engine makes a difference.\r\nWhat I like about this idea is that it can
    be, that it has been, translated into a program. I cannot imagine how to do this
    with the Kindersley approach; some variables seem to be missing. [Added:] This
    touches, ironically, the essence of Kindersley's idea, the distribution of black
    (and white). Under the microscope, there needs to be rhythm/pattern so type becomes
    readable, to make individual letterforms distinct, to form recognizable word shapes.
    That is, unevenness in the distribution of black and white. From the distance,
    text should look more even (not completely even of course), which might be translated
    into a value of grey. This might in turn influence distances between particular
    letters, or the placement of one letter between its two neighbors. And everything
    starts to blur. Is the idea of placing a letter between its neighbors related
    to just two neighboring letters? This looks like too narrow a context."
  created: '2006-05-12 17:56:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"From the distance, text should look more even (not completely even of course),
    which might be translated into a value of grey. \"\r\n\r\nTo me the clue in this
    is if it is disturbing and makes you take note of it.  If you are reading and
    a wordshape is disturbed by a hole caused by a spacing/kerning issue, then it
    is inhibitive and bad.  The same holds true for a black spot where glyphs appear
    darker than the rest of the word.  The solution may be in refining either the
    space or the outline or both.  There are always devilish problems like double
    \"g\" situattions and double cap \"T\" situations.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-12 20:43:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Is the idea of placing a letter between its neighbors related to just two
    neighboring letters? This looks like too narrow a context.\r\n\r\nAs I mentioned
    above, Kindersley actually qualifies this by the way he judged--or calculated--the
    advance width. A given advance width should have a letter that gives the same
    overall density (qualified by the weighting in his 'moment' stuff). And it seems
    that the wider advance widths would have similar density, though I'm not sure
    this is actually the case given his math. This even color applies to the whole
    alphabet, not just letters next to each other. \r\n\r\nBy the way, I am questioning
    not the importance of the optical center, but whether it needs to be in the center
    of the letter. If you look at the typical weighted 2, its optical center will
    be to the right of the center of the letter, meaning that the 2 should be shifted
    left between its side bearings. But this is exactly what should happen because
    of the opening to the left, according to the Tracy and URW approach. So the idea
    would still be striking an assymetrical balance, but within the side bearings,
    rather than necessarily the letter itself. \r\n\r\nThis still has implications
    for design, but they would be different from what Kindersley says. "
  created: '2006-05-12 21:50:37'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: I think I understand what you mean.
  created: '2006-05-12 22:31:51'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "I think I have a new way of seeing Kindersley's \"moment\" approach, one
    that suggests a mechanism by which it works reasonably well, and suggesting a
    hybrid approach that takes proximity into account as well. In short: wavelets.\r\n\r\nThe
    process of sliding a photographic mask behind another image (in this case, of
    a letter shape) is essentially convolution. Finding a peak or optimum in this
    process is closely related to edge-finding, which has been an intense focus of
    human vision research.\r\n\r\nTo see Kindersley's approach in a wavelet context,
    first consider the spacing between <em>two</em> letters rather than just the optical
    center of one. So, in Kindersley's approach, there are two \"moment masks\", one
    behind each letter. Consider combining the two by crossfading, so that the left
    one doesn't affect the right letter very much, and vice versa. The resulting mask
    will strongly resemble a 2nd derivative gaussian wavelet (first image of third
    row in <a href=\"http://www.nada.kth.se/~tony/cern-review/cern-html/node9.html\">this
    image</a>).\r\n\r\nI propose that adjusting the spacing between the letters in
    the two-letter image, and sliding the wavelet mask, in order to get a global optimum
    (peak response), will (a) give a visually appealing spacing between letters and
    (b) fairly closely approximate what you'd get from an application of Kindersley's
    method.\r\n\r\nI also propose that the wavelets are much more powerful and general
    (albeit much more computationally expensive than was practical for Kindersley).
    By using wavelets at different scales, and localized in the y direction as well
    as the x, you can detect peak responses for proximity as well. I also think that
    you can adjust the scale of the wavelets to take into account the size of the
    type, to get different spacing results for text and display settings.\r\n\r\nHopefully
    I'll have time to code up a rough implemenation of my ideas before too long.\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-18 18:12:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Raph, fascinating.\r\n\r\nI don't know if this is at all important, but Kindersley
    moved the letter, not the mask. When the light on the two sides of the light box
    equalized, that was the optical center. \r\n\r\nOne thing that Kindersley was--I
    think rightly--concerned with was producing both a letter and a spacing for it
    such that it would space excellently next to ever other letter in its alphabet.
    He called this having the letters (with side bearings) being 'interchangeable'.\r\n\r\nWould
    your 'wavelet' approach catch any of these considerations?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-18 18:54:57'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "<cite>I don\u2019t know if this is at all important, but Kindersley moved
    the letter, not the mask.</cite>\r\n\r\nNope, not at all important. One of the
    great things about linear systems is the many symmetries, invariants, and equivalences.
    Slide the letter or mask, invert positive and negative, scale the letter (relative
    to the mask), and the \"optical center\" as found by Kindersley's machine is always
    going to be in the same place.\r\n\r\n<cite>Would your \u2018wavelet\u2019 approach
    catch any of these considerations?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, but I see this \"interchangeability\"
    criterion as overly limiting. If you've got an algorithm to measure or adjust
    spacing, don't you want it to be sensitive to the individual spacing between two
    letters, rather than just between a letter and a virtual, generic neighbor? Doesn't
    VA need to space tighter than AA?\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-18 19:42:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Doesn\u2019t VA need to space tighter than AA?\r\n\r\nWell, Kindersley wanted
    the basic spacing of caps wide enough so that no kerning was necessary. Then if
    kerning was necessary, the LA RA etc would overlap. Obviously now with digital
    kerning and open type substitutions there are more options. Still, I would think
    that consistency of design of a letter and its spacing would help readbility.
    \r\n\r\nI suspect that whatever you do, there will be come compromises needed
    between various standards of ideal spacing--relating to proximity, area between
    letters, relation of counters, overall weight of black, etc. \r\n\r\nOne of the
    things that might come out of a good mathematical analysis of the spacing problem
    would be to find out--by looking at the results--which of these should have the
    most weight. This would tell us something about the design of the letters also.
    \    "
  created: '2006-05-18 20:10:19'
date: '2006-05-07 21:33:30'
title: David Kindersley on Spacing

---
