---
author:
  name: v-six
  picture: 111502
body: "Hi typophiles/designers,\r\n\r\nI'm putting together a book listing reasons
  that design will ruin a person's life. It's not solely about typography, but the
  largest chapter is devoted to it. Suggestions/contributions are welcome, and will
  be credited (I don't plan on publishing or selling it, and if I did, it wouldn't
  be for profit.)\r\n\r\nExamples from the text:\r\n\r\n\"You will take a long detour
  around Illinois to avoid seeing a poorly kerned sign.\"\r\n\u2014\r\n\"You have
  a carton of acid-free orange juice from 1983, and think it's still good.\"\r\n\u2014\r\n\"You
  are prepossessed to dislike any person that is an orphan or widow.\"\r\n\r\nI'm
  looking forward to hearing any input on this. Just don't bother telling me that
  I have really horrible ideas, I already know!\r\nThanks,\r\nCasey"
comments:
- author:
    name: noftus
    picture: 111246
  body: "Of course the last reason, on the last page, must be something like\r\n\r\n\"It
    will make you want to write a book, on why design will ruin a person's life\""
  children:
  - author:
      name: v-six
      picture: 111502
    body: "\u201CIt will make you want to write a book, on why design will ruin a
      person\u2019s life\u201D\r\n\r\nheh, well said. Maybe if I get lucky, I'll be
      able to add \"The creator of this book has since been institutionalized.\""
    created: '2006-05-10 16:10:47'
  created: '2006-05-10 16:07:29'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em/>You will take a long detour around Illinois to avoid seeing a poorly
    kerned sign.</em>\r\n\r\nSometimes they are worth getting a photo of. I saw one
    photo for a video store called FLICKS that had tight tracking, and when the LI
    got together it changed the meaning of the word. I'm betting the sign company
    ended up having to redo it."
  created: '2006-05-10 16:09:13'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: '''You will have numb fingers from carpal tunnel syndrome'''
  created: '2006-05-10 16:12:08'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: During one creative period where I used a touchpad for making some <a href="http://www.fontplay.com/kaleidoplay1.htm"
    target="_blank">kaleidoscope art thingies</a> until the end of my pointing finger
    got painfully sensative for months from tapping for clicks. That was years ago,
    and now it still is sensative. Mind you I'm not a designer, but I was pretending
    to be.
  created: '2006-05-10 16:18:49'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "\"you have a Pantone reference for your tea\"\r\n<a href=\"http://www.droogdesign.nl/#frames(lb=lb.php?r=166&f=2,rb=rb.php?r=13&f=2)\">Get
    yours here</a>\r\n\r\nTim"
  children:
  - author:
      name: v-six
      picture: 111502
    body: "Fontplay,\r\nI took a look at your site, and enjoyed this quote:\r\nhttp://www.fontplay.com/images2/rotor.jpg\r\nIs
      that factual?\r\n\r\n>\u201Cyou have a Pantone reference for your tea\u201D\r\nThat's
      fantastic."
    created: '2006-05-10 18:15:21'
  created: '2006-05-10 17:34:44'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Design has done nothing but good things for me.\r\n\r\nI, however, am my
    own worst enemy\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-10 18:30:45'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>I took a look at your site, and enjoyed this quote:\r\nhttp://www.fontplay.com/images2/rotor.jpg\r\nIs
    that factual?</em>\r\n\r\nIt was on a list of trivia facts. I didn't bother to
    check, but it sounds silly enough to be true.\r\n: )"
  created: '2006-05-10 19:48:34'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "WHY (TYPE) DESIGN WILL RUIN YOUR LIFE --\r\n\r\nYou legally have your name
    changed so you can have a cooler looking monogram.\r\n\r\nYour vanity license
    plate reads, \u201CDINGBAT\u201D\r\nYour vanity license plate reads, \u201CGLYPHER\u201D\r\n\r\nYou
    love the movie \u201CFontless in Seattle\u201D\r\n\r\nYou were accused of sexual
    harrassment because you mentioned \u201Cinterobang\u201D at the office.\r\n\r\nYou
    were accused of sexual harrassment because you said \u201CJoanna has nice ascenders\u201D.\r\n\r\nPeople
    tire of you saying, \u201CIt\u2019s Ellipsis\u2026 not dot.dot.dot.\u201D\r\n\r\nYou\u2019re
    thrown out of the cineplex for booing during the movie titles\r\n\r\nYour bumper
    says \u201CSTOP FONT ABUSE!\u201D\r\nYour bumper says \u201CTO HELL WITH HELVETICA!\u201D\r\n\r\nYou
    keep getting \u201CWorld\u2019s Best Designer\u201D bobble-heads for your birthday.\r\n\r\nYou\u2019re
    the only one who thinks type when you hear \u201CStymie Black\u201D\r\n\r\nYou\u2019re
    introduced to a hot (your gender preference \u2013 babe/hunk) at a cocktail party
    as a \u201Cdesigner\u201D and she/he says, \u201CLike Tommy Hilfiger?\u201D, and
    you say, \u201CNo, like Hermann Zapf\u201D and you suddenly get the feeling you\u2019re
    going home alone again tonight.\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-10 20:09:13'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I guess \"You might be a redneck if\" was more influential than I hoped\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-10 20:12:50'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: 'I don''t know but I''ll buy the book just for the "pantone reference for
    tea" and for "Joanna''s nice ascenders". '
  created: '2006-05-10 21:13:51'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "I can't help noticing bad kerning in ads etc, especially when in public transport.
    It interferes with the message.\r\nI also spoil enjoyment of pictures by wondering,
    how it was done."
  created: '2006-05-10 21:24:26'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: papyrus.
  created: '2006-05-10 21:39:55'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Your rear-end has gone flat from sitting in front of the computer too much.\r\n\r\nInstead
    of reading, you just look at the words.\r\n\r\nHelvetica is a lifestyle.\r\n\r\nYou
    buy fonts behind your spouse's, life partner's, or your own back!\r\n\r\nThere's
    hope for tacky Los Angeles when public transportation steps up to the plate with
    Scala: \r\nwww.metro.net\r\n\r\nYou get 'vahclempt' when a new font get released.\r\n\r\nYour
    kid asks you, \"Daddy what color is this?\" and you say \"Sweety, that's PMS 321
    Teal uncoated.\"\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2006-05-10 21:57:18'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "A Major Reason Why Design (or, more specifically, typography) Will Ruin Your
    Life\r\n\r\nYou have to work hard on tiny things for hours on end so no one will
    notice that you had to spend hours on end working hard on tiny things. Then get
    them to pay you for it."
  children:
  - author:
      name: v-six
      picture: 111502
    body: Wow, thank you everyone for the replies so far. Chris, you're my hero.
    created: '2006-05-10 22:33:10'
  created: '2006-05-10 22:23:12'
- author:
    name: roballoo
    picture: 110497
  body: "<cite>Helvetica is a lifestyle.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat should be on a t-shirt.\r\n\r\nWhy
    design will ruin your life:\r\n\r\n* One too many X-acto knife accidents.\r\n\r\n*
    Too much time on Typophile :)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: v-six
      picture: 111502
    body: "* One too many X-acto knife accidents.\r\n\r\nThat one fits me well. I
      learned the hard way a few years ago not to do book binding while you're sick.
      The sad part is I was more worried about \"rubrication\" on the book than I
      was about disecting myself. Thankfully, I can still count base ten with my fingers."
    created: '2006-05-11 00:18:12'
  created: '2006-05-10 23:48:25'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: aha. self-rubrication.
  created: '2006-05-11 00:26:21'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Ol' Dezcom must be pretty tired getting this bobble-head for Father's Day!
    :-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bobble_head-Dezcom_3775.png]"
  created: '2006-05-11 00:29:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-11 01:57:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You know design has ruined your life: \r\nif you make your icon out of glyphs
    from a typeface you designed;\r\n\r\nYou get a vanity plate with the name of that
    typeface;\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/chrisL-car_4956.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nThen
    you make a Christmas card using all type in that typeface and have a very bad
    visual pun in it;\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/chrisnoel_4389.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd
    an online friend posts a picture of you as a bobblehead!\r\n\r\nChrisL :-)"
  created: '2006-05-11 02:11:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You know type design has ruined your life if you are not satisfied being
    a type A or a Type B personality and want to be a complete opentype superpro character
    set personality.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-11 02:21:24'
- author:
    name: v-six
    picture: 111502
  body: At this rate the book could turn into a twenty-volume set. Who will volunteer
    to help me bind it all!? I guess this leads us to "You enjoy talking about design
    more than you like doing it." I think I've gotten to that point.
  created: '2006-05-11 04:13:20'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: You will accept doing jobs that pay almost nothing (hell, nothing) because
    in spite of there being very little financial reward involved, they are cool projects,
    and, after all, you are in love with design, right? Even if it ruins your life.  :-D
  children:
  - author:
      name: v-six
      picture: 111502
    body: ">> You will accept doing jobs that pay almost nothing (hell, nothing) because
      in spite of there being very little financial reward involved, they are cool
      projects, and, after all, you are in love with design, right? Even if it ruins
      your life. :-D\r\n\r\nI think you hit the nail right on the head with this one."
    created: '2006-05-11 06:36:44'
  created: '2006-05-11 04:26:10'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: 'Danger signs: Driving down any interstate or commercial street becomes little
    more than an excercise in fontspotting and legibility analysis. Billboards are
    your primary source of road rage. '
  created: '2006-05-11 14:19:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Don't forget bumper stickers too!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-11 14:21:06'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: Silly of me to forget bumper stickers. I keep trying to find an arrow key
    in the car to kern those green signs, too.
  created: '2006-05-11 14:28:40'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "I just spent a good part of my night trying to solve the problem of adding
    hyperlinks to physical places and things, including myself. I was baffled as to
    why it wasn't working. When I woke up I finally realized what the problem was.\r\n:
    )"
  created: '2006-05-11 14:57:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You become illiterate.\r\n\r\nBTW:\r\n> to see if everything was nicely aligned.\r\n\r\nAh.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-11 15:20:45'
- author:
    name: Peter G.
    picture: 109459
  body: You start judging books, not so much by their cover, but whether or not they've
    used ligatures on the inside.
  created: '2006-05-11 16:08:24'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "oh it wasn't design that did that to me, hrant...i was born like that! \r\nHugs"
  created: '2006-05-11 16:22:15'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: you throw up a little every time you see a prime mark instead of an apostrophe.
  created: '2006-05-11 17:00:24'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: "If you have OCD (Obsessive Compulsive Disorder), the rest of your life will
    be spent in the pursuit of perfect type kerning.\r\n\r\nOh, wait, you're going
    to do that anyway\u2026\r\n\r\n\r\nYou have no problem discussing PMS in public\u2026
    and can't figure out why people stare at you when you do.\r\n\r\nYou've had a
    traffic accident due to exceptionally good or bad kerning on a billboard.\r\n\r\nYour
    friends have been caught by their wives lusting after porn online. Your wife caught
    you lusting after fonts online."
  created: '2006-05-11 17:18:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> i was born like that!\r\n\r\nBut of course men and women are not born differently...\r\n\r\nTrust
    me: it's never too late.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-11 17:56:41'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: You try to Command-Z real life events.
  created: '2006-05-11 19:07:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I tried to command+Z my income tax and it didn't work :-(.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-11 19:53:19'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: ">Trust me: it\u2019s never too late.\r\n\r\nHrant, actually it is a bit too
    late if you are dyslexic."
  created: '2006-05-11 19:59:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dyslexics are hard-wired to adulate Modernism?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-11 20:07:05'
- author:
    name: Tim Brown
    picture: 110622
  body: "You come across a glyph that resembles one of your distant relatives.\r\n\r\nYou
    print it, with the distant relative's name underneath, and put it on your bulletin
    board at work.\r\n\r\nYou receive odd looks while explaining it to other <em>designers</em>
    who come by, but you keep it on the bulletin board anyway, and then....\r\n\r\nThe
    distant relative, who is in no way a designer, who will never, ever understand
    how an uppercase G reminds anyone of anyone else, actually VISITS YOUR OFFICE
    without notice and asks why their name is up on your bulletin board, and \"what's
    the G for?\"\r\n\r\nThank goodness for typophile. :)"
  created: '2006-05-11 21:35:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "G wizz Tim! How could he not understand anything so clear :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-12 00:20:45'
- author:
    name: v-six
    picture: 111502
  body: ">You try to Command-Z real life events.\r\n\r\nI've actually spoken to many
    designers who have instinctively tried to command-z something that can't be undone.
    Maybe Staples should have a big Command-Z button mass-produced in addition to
    their \"Easy Button.\" On that note, I was in there with a friend who needed to
    place a special order to have copies made. The process was an absolute hassle,
    so I brought over one of their easy buttons. We both pushed it, but nothing happened.\r\n\r\n>Dyslexics
    are hard-wired to adulate Modernism?\r\n\r\nThe only dyslexic designer I know
    owns a copy of <em>Grid Systems in Graphic Design</em>. I wouldn't say he adulates
    Modernism, but the two of them are definately on speaking terms.\r\n\r\nTim, that's
    too good to be something you made up. I think we all need to have a big typophile
    group hug. \"It's okay, we're here for you!\""
  created: '2006-05-12 01:59:00'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Design will ruin your life because when you're not actually designing you'll
    spend hours on web sites talking about it.
  created: '2006-05-12 06:39:16'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Design will ruin your life because you want to give fonts and clip art as
    (paid) presents to friends and family members but you first have to explain what
    they are . . .\r\n\r\n:D"
  created: '2006-05-12 17:52:05'
- author:
    name: gene ullery-smith
  body: ">You try to Command-Z real life events\r\n\r\nthats funny! i swear that thought
    has run through my mind when i was doing something stupid - like locking my keys
    in my car.  APPLE-Z! APPLE-Z! APPLE-Z! DOH!\r\n\r\nI think that and billboard-kerning-induced
    road rage resonate most with me"
  created: '2006-05-12 21:58:29'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Design is a direct connection to God.\r\n\r\nCynicism is befuddling\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-13 18:42:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah, the Sufi Bauhaus School.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-13 18:50:35'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Prelude to the Ceremonies of the Whirling Dervish\r\nby the Erguner Brothers\r\n\r\nWe
    create the universe\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-13 18:55:15'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: I frequently miss my exit on the highway thinking about type.
  created: '2006-05-13 19:20:16'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "To address the topic more succinctly (Why design will ruin your life):\r\n\r\nBecause
    you let it.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-13 19:25:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Design is a direct connection to God.\r\n\r\nCynicism is befuddling\u2026\r\n\r\nWow.
    What does this have to do with the Sufis. Is this a paraphrase of some Sufi saying?"
  created: '2006-05-13 20:42:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hmmm.\r\nThat's why I like Angelenos: they know not to take anything too
    seriously.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-13 20:48:24'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "The most important thing you will ever design is your philosophy\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-13 21:09:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">too seriously\r\n\r\nSeriously, 'Cynicism is befuddling' is great!"
  created: '2006-05-13 21:21:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But doubt is half the story.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-13 21:33:03'
- author:
    name: ListerartDotCom
  body: You annoy everyone around you as you constantly name fonts used in TV commercials,
    movie  titles/credits or with each instance blurting out "I've got that font."
  created: '2006-05-13 21:34:43'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "The ever elusive THEY are just the amalgam of my brainwashing\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-13 21:36:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \u201CI\u2019ve got that font.\u201D\r\n\r\nOr the rarer delight: \"I know
    the guy who made that font.\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-13 21:37:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Or, more hopefully and with pride: \"I designed that font!\" :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-14 01:06:55'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: "Priceless blank stares from co-workers at this:\r\n\"I corresponded online
    today with the guy who made Trebuchet ... and Comic Sans.\""
  created: '2006-05-14 03:52:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-14 04:07:30'
- author:
    name: ben millen
    picture: 110679
  body: ".. someone posts a photograph of himself wearing an obscure type related
    shirt in a thread entitled \"why design will ruin your life\" and you think to
    yourself..\r\n\"hey, i have that shirt...\""
  created: '2006-05-14 06:29:44'
- author:
    name: ben millen
    picture: 110679
  body: 'furthermore: you contribute to this thread at 1:30am on a saturday night.'
  created: '2006-05-14 06:30:55'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "How you know you do too much Photoshop?:\r\nIn your dreams you are selecting
    your shirt with the magic wand so you can change the color. Stuff like this has
    been happening more lately. I could really put a real-life magic wand to good
    use.\r\n; )"
  created: '2006-05-15 23:23:48'
- author:
    name: kristin
    picture: 110305
  body: "<i>In your dreams you are selecting your shirt with the magic wand...</i>\r\n\r\nI
    had a friend who spent so much time in Quark, that he dreamed he was trying to
    walk through his own living room, but he kept \"snapping to\" the furniture in
    the room!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-16 16:43:55'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: "You make a t-shirt like this -\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sg_3606.gif]"
  created: '2006-05-16 16:54:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Good one Brad! Better than \"Sheep Shagger\" :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: londontype
      picture: 111325
    body: I used to keep several sheep on my "farm". I've heard all the sheep jokes,
      even been called Bra-aaaaad!
    created: '2006-05-16 17:44:04'
  created: '2006-05-16 16:56:30'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Hill's corollary:\r\n\"Anyone who would letterspace *unicase* would steal
    ferrets.\""
  created: '2006-05-16 21:23:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You pulled the wool over my eyes Bra-aaaad :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-16 22:45:46'
- author:
    name: v-six
    picture: 111502
  body: "It's time to put this silly thing together. For the list of contributors,
    I will be using people's names from their profiles, unless you prefer that your
    username be used, or that you remain anonymous. In either case, please say so.
    I'll post a pdf when it's done.\r\n\r\n-casey"
  created: '2006-05-17 00:04:44'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "v-six\r\n\r\nI didn't contribute to your \"silly thing,\" but I can certainly
    tell you this: you don't have the right to assume non-objection.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-05-18 10:14:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you don\u2019t have the right to assume non-objection.\r\n\r\nWell, formally,
    I think he does, simply because Typophile is completely public*. That said, it
    would be nice to put a little bit more effort into getting \"premission\". But
    really, I put that in quotes there because it's basically too late: since it's
    public, permission is implicit. Think for example of how we freely quote each
    other in formulating our posts.\r\n\r\n* On a list like ATypI's, where you have
    to be\r\na paid member, the things written are only\r\nsemi-public, so getting
    permission is much\r\nmore relevant.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-18 10:38:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">formally, I think he does\r\n\r\nFormally, the copyright is owned by Typophile--see
    the copyright notice below--and not those who wrote the post. Theoretically, Typophile
    could put out a long book 'Boumology', consisting of Hrant's posts to typophile,
    sell it and collect all the royalties :) "
  created: '2006-05-18 12:29:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ":-)\r\n\r\nBTW, here's a real-life contribution, from another thread:\r\n\"Interesting
    point-theories indeed! I could talk about this all night =)\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-18 14:19:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "So that wouldn't be pointless? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-18 15:08:17'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "The premise is flawed.\r\n\r\nIf your life is ruined design was just along
    for the ride.\r\n\r\npeace"
  children:
  - author:
      name: v-six
      picture: 111502
    body: "In response to everyone that brought up the rights in question:\r\n\r\nI
      won't be selling this, so there will be no issues with loyalties. In fact, I
      won't even post the pdf if it would please the court. Also, I'm sorry if I made
      any false assumptions, but I did say this in my first post in the thread:\r\n\r\n<em>Suggestions/contributions
      are welcome, and will be credited (I don\u2019t plan on publishing or selling
      it, and if I did, it wouldn\u2019t be for profit.)</em>\r\n\r\nI figured that
      everyone that had responded read this, and no one shared any bit of concern.
      I'll try to be a bit more formal in the future if I forsee an issue with anything.\r\n\r\nPaul,
      very respectfully, you're taking the subject too seriously. If design actually
      ruined someones life, I think they'd be pursuing a different career path instead
      of spending time on Typophile :)"
    created: '2006-05-19 03:51:30'
  created: '2006-05-18 15:43:02'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Agreed.\r\n\r\nI differ on the premise. :)\r\n\r\nSo I wrote\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-19 05:02:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If design actually ruined someones life,\r\n> I think they\u2019d be pursuing
    a different career path\r\n\r\nDefine \"ruin\"...  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-19 05:52:35'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "quote - Define \u201Cruin\u201D\u2026 :-)\r\n\r\nWestwood :)\r\n\r\nI was
    a directionless juvenile delinquent before I discovered the act of creation. I
    would now be in prison were it not for that outlet. It saved my life and continues
    to do so.\r\n\r\nThere are billions of stories in this virtual city\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-19 15:45:39'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: "You don't care what they write on your tombstone, so long as it is in the
    typeface of your choosing.\r\n\r\nYou name your kids and/or pets after typefaces
    or designers. Ex: \"Bodoni! Stop poking Novarese with that composing stick, or
    he might bite you!\" "
  created: '2006-05-19 22:21:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Paul, I remember Westwood's golden years, when finding that alley\r\nthat
    bypassed the police blockades against cruising was a big deal.\r\nAlthough I believe
    one always misses one's youth, I'm happy I'm\r\nnot like that any more.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-20 21:55:28'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I just remember dropping my girlfriend off at work in Westwood. The driving
    aggression level leaps several notches when you enter the village. Horns and cell
    phones\u2026\r\n\r\nMy thesis is once you pass La Cienega all bets are off. I
    can feel the collective blood pressure rise. :)\r\n\r\nI didn't grow up here so
    I didn't experience that part of Westwood, but I have lived here long enough to
    have lived in West Hollywood before Beverly Center was built. That was such a
    great neighborhood then.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-20 23:17:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You run between moving cars, pick up some tiny detritus\r\nfrom the pavement,
    and exclaim: \"Now that's a cool S!\"\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/20111\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-21 18:34:55'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "You serve time after someone touches your screen\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-05-22 10:56:13'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: You find yourself trying to re-justify the type in your head instead of reading
    because there are so many rivers.
  created: '2006-05-22 18:12:47'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: You stall on reading a book you'd love to read simply because that great trade
    paperback edition is sold out everywhere you look and you just can't bear to pick
    up that awful mass-market edition...
  created: '2006-05-22 19:44:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Your wife asks you to go to the drug store to buy her some throat lozenges
    and you wonder why they are not shaped like a diamond :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Lozenge_4673.png]"
  created: '2006-05-25 17:56:50'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "You get employee's attention at book and magazine sotres for opening random
    books and staring at the text blocks for half and hour, and then fliping around
    Vogue and female lifestyle magazines because you hate the visual cramping of the
    male mags section. I just feel so uncomfortable when the cashier asks if everything
    is ok.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-05-25 19:35:48'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Because you would make another Garamond revival.\r\n\r\nAnd its re-revival.\r\n\r\nAnd
    its re-re-revival.\r\n\r\nOne modeled after Jannon's.\r\n\r\nOne modeled after
    Claude Garamond's, after you realized that Jannon's cut were not the original.\r\n\r\nAnd
    finally, one which is your own interpretation, which would be optimized for setting
    in the desktop, as well as the Monotype, Linotype and Intertype system.\r\n\r\nThe
    whole process could easily take, oh, twenty years off your life."
  created: '2006-05-31 01:02:24'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: "err\r\nlong lonely nights of forced intimacy with a sweaty mouse, just so
    you can design a letter.\r\n\r\nthe absence of that thing called sleep\r\n\r\nthe
    rude awakening and the run to the printer before the class begins\r\n\r\nthe pointless
    quest for a cutting knife and a piece of cardboard in the last moment.\r\n\r\nworking
    on the assignment all night, just to wake up in the morning and realise that what
    you did sucked.\r\n\r\ncomputer bugs. they will ruin your life. because you are
    a designer - you will go crazy and take someone with you."
  created: '2006-05-31 01:37:10'
date: '2006-05-10 15:41:26'
node_type: forum
title: Why design will ruin your life

---
