---
author:
  name: dpiechnik
  picture: 111422
body: Maybe someone can enlighten me on a thought that popped into my head the other
  day.  Do type designers write like they design?  Is your handwriting better than
  most people or is it just as sloppy as the next guys?
comments:
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: i have one of the worst handwritings i know. i mean its readable and all,
    but i switch slanting left / right / upright every other letter (which apparently
    is a sign for a weak person, i heard).
  created: '2006-05-11 18:55:27'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I have good handwriting - better & more stylish than most.
  created: '2006-05-11 19:04:55'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: I shoulda been a doctor.
  created: '2006-05-11 19:08:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My handwriting downright sucks! It is unreadable to anyone but me.  Once
    upon a time I was a decent caligrapher though.  It didn't rub off on my handwriting
    which continues to deteriorate as I age.  A few years ago I took a stab at doing
    a typeface based on my handwriting. In order to make it readable I had to make
    many changes.  It read reasonably well after much revision but I would not use
    it as a writing model for school kids by any means.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-11 19:09:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My doctor thinks I shoulda been a doctor :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-11 19:10:32'
- author:
    name: dpiechnik
    picture: 111422
  body: "I guess the follow-up question would be something all philisophical like
    \"why do you feel this is?\"\r\n\r\n--\r\ndp"
  created: '2006-05-11 19:45:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Because handwriting today is not for public use.  Everything we do for others
    we type, therefore, there is no need for neatness.  The further I went through
    school and work, the faster I had to write taking notes or whatever.  Speed kills.
    The other end of it is that perhaps type design, in some way, makes up for this
    difficiency--kinda like the Napoleon complex.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-11 19:50:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "My handwriting sucks, but I don't worry. Much more relevant\r\nto typeface
    design is how I trim my goatee. I'm not kidding.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-11 20:17:15'
- author:
    name: magnus_rakeng
    picture: 109817
  body: 'i have the handwriting from hell. i can''t even read it myself. In school
    i was as the only one in my class who was aloud to write in all caps. I still
    do it. '
  created: '2006-05-11 20:19:53'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "FYI -- Not all designers have poor penmanship.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/mistral/\"
    target=\"new\">Mistral</a>, by Roger Excoffon, 1953\r\n\r\n<em>\"Mistral is a
    loose running script based directly on the handwriting of its designer, Roger
    Excoffon. His goal was to create a typeface with a true handwritten style, but
    in this case, the writing looks as though it were done with a brush or heavy felt
    tip.\"</em>\r\n-- info from MyFonts.com\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-11 20:37:17'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "<em>i have the handwriting from hell.</em>\r\n\r\n... this from the guy who
    designed <a href=\"http://vllg.com/Thirstype/Radio/Example+About/\">Radio</a>,
    so that should answer your question."
  created: '2006-05-11 20:39:18'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "Why don't we scan and post? I'd be curious to see what our handwriting looks
    like...\r\n\r\nWrite out one of your favorite pangrams, cursive & print.\r\n\r\nHere's
    mine.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mwehand_4743.gif]\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\nhttp://homepage.mac.com/mwebert\r\nmwebert@mac.com\r\n--------------"
  created: '2006-05-11 20:41:38'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I have a good clear hand and I prefer to handwrite, but then I am not a type
    designer and I have done lots of calligraphy (too much, I have deformed the lower
    knuckle on my 2nd finger). \r\nAt least I don't have to trim anything to do it
    though :)\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-05-11 20:51:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \"based directly on the handwriting of its designer\"\r\n\r\nIt would be
    more accurate to say \"on <strong>a</strong> handwriting of its designer\", since\r\nthe
    development of Mistral involved like a dozen distinct possible styles.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-11 20:51:27'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.fontplay.com/images/fphand.jpg\" target=\"_blank\">Here's
    my printing with great concentration, and redoos included</a>\r\nBut normally
    my writing makes even me want to puke.\r\n<a href=\"http://apostrophiclab.pedroreina.net/0170-Cholo/cholo.html\"
    target=\"_blank\">My best friends handwriting was good enough to be made into
    a font.</a>"
  created: '2006-05-11 21:25:51'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "I have bad handwriting and I'm a bad speller too.\r\n\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2006-05-11 21:52:11'
- author:
    name: samadam
  body: "My handwriting is actually pretty good looking, imho. I combine a few letters,
    for example when I write \"playing\" I drop the hump of the N completely, and
    my G devolves into a single loop.  Often, my descenders are three lines long,
    my ascenders two.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/theo_6621.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/playing_4488.png]\r\n(just
    practicing with inkscape)"
  created: '2006-05-11 22:27:43'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "samadam> I use inkscape too... I thought I was the only one\r\n\r\n\r\nMikey"
  children:
  - author:
      name: samadam
    body: "just all us po' fokes that can't afford illustrator!\r\nAnd i prefer the
      drawing tools."
    created: '2006-05-11 23:39:33'
  created: '2006-05-11 23:24:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The top image is a scan of my real handwriting.\r\nThe bottom image is my
    font (Chrishand) based on my handwriting.  This is the first font I ever did so
    be kind :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/myhandwrite_5002.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/chrishand_4757.png]"
  created: '2006-05-12 01:28:45'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "My handwriting looks more or less like my Felt Tip Roman (top) when I try
    to write neat (middle). Usually it looks more like the bottom sample, which is
    how it looks when I write fast. In general, my handwriting is not as neat (ha!)
    as it was when I did that font.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ftr-vs-real_5988.gif]"
  created: '2006-05-12 04:49:25'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Here's one to give Hrant nightmares:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/helvetica-hand_3806.gif]\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2006-05-12 05:02:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah, I wasn't sure, but I think I get it:\r\nThat's your rendition of Helvetica,
    isn't it? ISN'T IT?!?!  ;-)\r\n\r\nActually, I think faux type rules.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-12 05:06:33'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Handwriting <em>and</em> Helvetica, your favorites, all in one. :-)
  created: '2006-05-12 05:09:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Inlcude me among the type designers with lousy handwriting. In my case, it
    is largely due to not being taught the correct way to hold a pen at my first school.
    I briefly went to a school that included penmanship in the curriculum, when I
    was nine, but by then the damage was done and despite a number of efforts I have
    never been able to get used to holding a pen correctly and writing with my arm
    rather than with my fingers.
  created: '2006-05-12 05:13:16'
- author:
    name: amyp
    picture: 109556
  body: "fun topic!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/amywriting_5328.jpg]\r\n\r\ni
    wrote this when i was working on my thesis a few years ago...\r\ndiagnosis? deranged
    grad student..."
  created: '2006-05-12 05:25:58'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/handwriting_5480.jpg]'
  created: '2006-05-12 05:53:55'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Let's hope, for Mike's sake, that none of these shows up in the type i.d.
    forum.
  created: '2006-05-12 06:38:55'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: I'd like to see the one you made for hrant's nightmare made into a font. That
    could even be the name of it (hrant's nightmare)
  created: '2006-05-12 07:01:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I see a pattern here.  Most of the samples posted are not joined cursive
    as much as individual letters.  Mark still wins for neatness.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-12 12:56:51'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "PattyFab: Love your handwriting. Both print and cursive would make fine fonts...\r\n\r\nChrisL:
    Where are your fonts available? I'm a big fan of Now Sans (and now Chrishand).\r\n\r\n\r\nAn
    aside question: What was the first typeface that you can remember imitating in
    your handwriting/lettering?\r\n\r\nFor me, it was University Roman (it was the
    '80s, after all...)\r\n\r\n \r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\nhttp://homepage.mac.com/mwebert\r\nmwebert@mac.com\r\n--------------"
  created: '2006-05-12 13:07:19'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: My handwriting is horrendous is most situations where speed is required. I'm
    also a lefty, which contributes. I've taken to writing in small caps to keep my
    letterforms distinct. If I don't, my handwriting would become like my mother's
    which is one step away from looking like seismographic charting. However, if I
    can slow myself slightly and write on a surface like a notepad, my writing quickly
    shapes up.
  created: '2006-05-12 13:56:06'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "If my handwriting were ever digitized it would have to be Open Type because
    there is very little rhyme or reason to which letters I connect up. Sort of a
    roman/cursive hybrid. Just trying to be different I guess... but it was always
    important to me that my handwriting be both good and distinctive because my mom's
    is. Altho mine looks nothing like hers.\r\n\r\nI want to see more samples!"
  created: '2006-05-12 14:57:28'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>An aside question: What was the first typeface that you can remember
    imitating in your handwriting/lettering?</em>\r\n\r\nIn eighth grade (about 1970)
    I redrew the \"We Try Harder\" type from the Avis ads, which were set in Perpetua
    Bold, though I didn't know what it was called at the time. I still have it around
    somewhere."
  created: '2006-05-12 15:25:26'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/jackdaw_hand_6243.jpg]\r\n\r\nI can remember
    drawing some Roger Dean lettering and Letraset display fonts like Quicksilver.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-05-12 15:46:00'
- author:
    name: Rene Verkaart
    picture: 110212
  body: "If I see this about 95% of the typedesigners have a lousy handwriting (incl.
    me). The alphabet is based on the handwriting, so this thread is a compliment
    to most type designers. They are able to make good fonts without having a good
    handwriting themselves. \r\nI think the guys from Underware must have a very good
    handwriting. In there fonts you practically see the handwriting. (Have a look
    at the Typeradio.org-banner on the upper right side of this website.)\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\xAEen\xE9\r\n\r\nwww.characters.nl
    \ { Dutch typography to express yourself }"
  created: '2006-05-12 16:03:54'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "Boy, Tim, your handwriting is exquisite.\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\nhttp://homepage.mac.com/mwebert\r\nmwebert@mac.com\r\n--------------"
  created: '2006-05-12 16:27:21'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Yeah, Tim. That should be a font.
  created: '2006-05-12 16:32:47'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Underware handwriting (at least I assume it is)\r\nhttp://www.typeworkshop.com/index.php?id1=type-basics&id2=&id3=&id4=&id5=&idpic=15#pictloader\r\n\r\nThanks
    Michael and Patty\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-05-12 16:37:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "My writing varies depending on the pen.\r\nThe Handsome face (next to bottom)
    was actually \"written\" in Fontographer with a Wacom stylus. Handsome Pro (bottom)
    gets a bit more pseudo-spontaneity, with OpenType contextual alternates, but I
    still have a few more levels to go in mimicking the real thing.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/NickScript_4490.jpg]"
  created: '2006-05-12 17:25:25'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Tim, I would say that the Underware sample is lettering and not handwriting. '
  created: '2006-05-12 17:28:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Guys, it's no use writing a sample for this thread - it has to be done spontaneously.\r\n\r\nFurther
    to this: a while ago it hit me that to make typography feel like handwriting,
    it's not enough to make things irregular, it's not even enough to make things
    contextual; you need to reproduce the most basic element of handwriting: mistakes!
    Bad spelling, crossed-out stuff, messy linebreaks, the works. It probably can't
    even be done by a font. Except maybe by Amy!\r\n\r\n> a compliment to most type
    designers.\r\n\r\nOr you could instead say that it's simply a result of\r\n\"the
    alphabet is based on handwriting\" being false.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-12 17:42:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> it has to be done spontaneously</em>\r\n\r\nI think people were responding
    to the suggestion to write a pangram.\r\nHowever, in the interests of transparency,
    here's what my writing <em>really</em> looks like, notes taken in bad lighting
    during a lecture.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/May8_5292.jpg]"
  created: '2006-05-12 17:53:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I think people were responding to the suggestion to write a pangram.\r\n\r\nWell,
    yes. But a better response would have been \"no\".\r\n\r\n> here\u2019s what my
    writing really looks like\r\n\r\n<cite>There</cite> you go! :-)\r\nAnd better
    than mine.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-12 17:58:10'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "OK here are some notes from a design meeting about a sparkling juice label.
    Not too different from my sample - my handwriting doesn't change that much\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lizzy_4337.jpg]"
  created: '2006-05-12 18:04:06'
- author:
    name: amyp
    picture: 109556
  body: "<em>Bad spelling, crossed-out stuff, messy linebreaks, the works. It probably
    can\u2019t even be done by a font. Except maybe by Amy! </em>\r\n\r\nah yes, my
    next project. ;)\r\n\r\ndespite the magic of opentype, i'd argue that handwriting
    fonts simply can't do what handwriting does...basically, handwriting fonts are
    simulacrum of handwriting. \r\n\r\nif we look to graphology, the best way to get
    a sample of someone's handwriting is to take it from something previously written,
    to really capture the unconscious forms that occur when we're taken off guard. "
  created: '2006-05-12 18:14:19'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: It's so amazing that nobody actually writes anymore. On a similar note I spent
    about an hour trying to draw something in Illustrator recently that I realized
    could have been done in about 30 seconds by hand.
  created: '2006-05-12 18:24:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'll never forget the teacher of my first computer science class (who'd been
    a student of Von Neumann) torturing us for half an hour trying to get us to come
    up with an elegant routine for doing a certain problem (involving cross-word puzzles),
    and at the end telling us with a serious grin: \"You don't use a computer for
    this - you do it by hand.\" They don't make 'em like that no more.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-12 18:35:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the magic of opentype</em>\r\n\r\nThe thing is, OpenType scripts have
    concentrated on capturing the beauty of formal calligraphy.\r\nIf the same amount
    of genius that went into Zapfino Extra Pro or Caflisch Pro were to be put into
    mimicing \"ordinary\" writing, then we'd see some different results. A few people
    have done \"first generation\" attempts, such as myself and Christian (Dear Sarah),
    but there are subsequent generations of OT scripts to come that will be truly
    scary in their ability to fool the Turing Testees."
  created: '2006-05-12 18:44:28'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I find myself trying to avoid widows and orphans and to keep a regular right
    rag when I write letters.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/timhandxx_5636.jpg]\r\nbriefing
    notes to myself tend to be scruffier.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-05-12 18:46:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> fool the Turing Testees.\r\n\r\nI actually think that the need to have
    variant glyphs (at least beyond 3 or 4 = the range of the fovea) is over-rated;
    I don't think our short-term memory of specific letter shapes survives across
    fixations. On the other hand, to repeat, a bigger factor is the overall texture
    of a setting: it would be very hard to give it a convincing divergence.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-12 18:50:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's not the variant glyphs so much, as the joining structures.\r\nI'm amazed
    that it's even possible to read a cursive monoline script, to figure out which
    strokes are part of the character, and which are joins.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/backcurs_5137.jpg]"
  created: '2006-05-12 19:05:41'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "I think our handwriting skills depends of how much we actually use it. When
    I was a kid, in the hand-writing classes in school, my teachers didn't know what
    to give me for homework since I easily completed the basic hand-writing-methods.
    It came very natural to me during those early years in life, and I really loved
    it.\r\n\r\nBut today... haha forget about it! I never use it \u2013 so when I
    once a year try to write something, it looks really terrible.\r\n\r\nSame with
    art/drawing classes, I got a really good grade in it, but today I can only produce
    illustrations with the help of Adobe Illustrator.\r\n\r\nI guess I am \"vectorified\"
    for life."
  created: '2006-05-12 19:16:46'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: Now how about some signatures? (;
  created: '2006-05-12 22:25:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Now how about some signatures?\"\r\n\r\nQuarto or Octavo? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-12 23:10:11'
- author:
    name: alexhb
    picture: 110687
  body: "ahh. I have a good comment for this post.\r\n\r\nI actually write with lignatures.
    I write my fi with the base of the f first then I write the crossbard and go down
    for the i. Same for fj, and for ff, I try to connect them."
  created: '2006-05-13 00:30:13'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: "<em>It\u2019s so amazing that nobody actually writes anymore.</em>\r\n\r\nThank
    you for generalizing."
  created: '2006-05-13 01:37:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Handwriting and Helvetica, your favorites, all in one. :-)\r\n\r\nHa. ha.
    ha. Very funny.\r\n\r\nActually, I like handwriting. I even perform it sometimes.
    Sometimes I even write more than one word. But usually, it looks like this -spontaneous,
    although admittedly atypically crisp- sample:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eggs_6531.gif]\r\n\r\n>
    I actually write with lignatures.\r\n\r\nWhile I occasionally write with individual
    letters.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-13 17:03:29'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: I usually can't read my own.
  created: '2006-05-13 19:29:44'
- author:
    name: Richard Hards
    picture: 110084
  body: "My handwriting is absolutely appalling, all caps and completely illegible.\r\n\r\nBut
    I couldn't resist posting this\u2026[img:sites/default/files/old-images/back_5779.jpg]"
  created: '2006-05-14 07:26:26'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "would be better in Courier\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/writing_4148.jpg]"
  created: '2006-05-14 09:11:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Vincent,\r\nYour writing looks too much like mine! Scary :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-15 22:27:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Thank you for generalizing.\r\n\r\nLet me share an insight concerning a
    common word possessing uncommon rhetorical magic: \"really\". Formally it's supposed
    to <cite>reinforce</cite> things, but in practice it can actually throw a wrench
    in the absolutism, and nobody can complain. Add it to a statement that needs diluting
    but you don't want to dilute, and it will save the day. And if it's too late,
    just add something like \"Not really.\" immediately after the offending statement,
    stand back, and admire the rhetorical alchemy.\r\n\r\nSo for example: \"Nobody
    really writes any more.\"\r\nOr: \"Nobody writes any more. Not really.\"\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW,
    here's a sample of some of the best\r\nhandwriting that I've seen addressed to
    me:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hirota-1_4503.jpg]\r\n\r\nHe even
    dabbled in Armenian:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hirota-2_5360.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    cruncher: the guy is Japanese.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-15 22:49:39'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Here's my two cents: \r\nMy father for all I knew when I was a kid always
    printed in all caps. He is an engineer and had spent so much time doing technical
    drawings by hand, that well, it came naturally and was necessary. \r\n\r\nSkip
    to another subject entirely: Christmas. We would get these elaborately wrapped
    presents in crazy-coloured tissue paper with  scrawls all over them, signed from
    Santa. It took several years -- long after I stopped believing in Santa -- for
    me to realize it was my father's actual cursive handwriting -- I had assumed one
    of my parents was faking a flourishy handwriting. But there was a real reason
    he never ever wrote in cursive.... (He occasionally performs the same task for
    my kids because my handwriting, no matter how badly I scrawl, is still recognizable
    as mine.)\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-16 17:16:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You mean your Santa wrote in English? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-16 18:09:21'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Hehe. Yes, he did. My kids' Santa occasionally dabbles in French, though.
    You *can* teach an old dog new tricks! \r\n\r\nIt'd be interesting to revisit
    my dad's printing, especially what he actually wrote on the plans/drawings. I
    remember finding it extraordinarily even and consistent.\r\n\r\nK. "
  created: '2006-05-16 21:26:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You should make a font from it!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-16 22:16:40'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: My handwriting's unjustifiable, but my calligraphy is good, and I imagine
    that's the case for quite a few type designers. Good type isn't chirographic,
    but once you know your arm and your wrist and your fingers and your pen ($10 from
    a discount store I travel 200 miles to visit) <em>neither is good calligraphy</em>.
  created: '2006-05-16 23:42:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "?\r\nI can't see how calligraphy can be non-chirographic.\r\nUnless you use
    your foot or your mouth or something.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-16 23:45:48'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "It's not chirographic in the sense that it doesn't lead to the geometric
    relationship between exterior and interior outlines which one sees in reductively
    chirographic type. For one thing, of course, pen nibs are 3D objects rather than
    2D moving fronts. More important is that the nib can - and in hardcore calligraphy,
    as opposed to Get Well Soon calligraphy, will - be rotated slightly, pressure
    will vary greatly, and angle from page as baseline to pen will vary to an extent
    depending on the degree of rasping roughness that one wants to get out of it.
    That the imperatives of the muscles and the visual system working together will
    also make straights and curves far from straight or simply bezier-ish also counteracts
    the perceiving eye's readiness to chunk away a form as merely the expression of
    a geometry. \r\n    That black occupies less area than white in most calligraphy
    does not in itself make the calligraphy less notanic. (Is that the accepted adjective?)"
  created: '2006-05-17 00:38:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And here's another better-than-usual but nonetheless spontaneous one:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/$_5192.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-20 15:07:34'
- author:
    name: Brian_
    picture: 110618
  body: "Ha, yes, I have redone post-it notes because of how it justified. I really
    am ocd. Usually I try to think what the note will look like. By the time I finish
    the person is at my desk and I just tell them what I was writing. ;)\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-20 22:05:52'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I'm not the only one :), although I now refuse to use post-its.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-05-21 09:51:35'
- author:
    name: DesignSlave
  body: "OK I got you all beat here.\r\nI destroyed my handwriting in HS when I had
    to 'write pages' as punishment.\r\nSo I adopted a scribble style that is barely
    legible, but just readable enough to pass as writing.\r\n\r\n+6 months I can't
    figure my own handwriting. Worse, I don't really care about spelling anymore as
    long as I get the idea on the paper. Sometime as long as I think i have most of
    the word down, I'll just wobble the rest off. Kind of a shorthand.\r\n\r\nIn addition
    I change my mind all the time about how I draw out a letter , look at the word
    'each' (top right) I used 2 different lowercase 'a's for the same word. Sometimes
    I switch to ALL CAPS IN THE MIDDE OF A SENTENCE FOR NO REASON. My wife is watching
    me closely for other signs of schizophrenia.\r\n\r\nI guess I look at type in
    2 forms 1. Communication 2.Design. I've perfectly designed many misspelled words
    in my time. Cients LOVE it.\r\n\r\nWell I'll let you be the judge:\r\n\r\nP.S.
    The only reason this is spelled right is because I used spell check. In the original
    version I got punnishment wrong as well as ledgible. Also schitophrenia in the
    edit.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/HndWrtng_5626.jpg]\r\n\r\nLOL I forgot
    my handwriting is PERFECT for writing down a 'hot work' contacts email addy at
    a party. I wonder why they think I never email them??"
  created: '2006-05-21 21:02:08'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: "I don't agree with Hrant that writing samples here have to be spontanious.
    They are only as interesting as spontanious typeface designs.\r\n\r\nI'd like
    to see the best people can do (or least something they cared to spend time on)."
  created: '2006-05-22 23:47:48'
- author:
    name: Stephen Lording
    picture: 109670
  body: "Does anyone else do a semi-cursive uppercase? \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sl-sample_4080.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    love handwriting, and I think it's a shame the nature of our modern lives means
    we can't use it more than we do. I always loved reading about the work of handwriting
    analysts and discovering what they could tell about a person from their handwriting.
    \r\n\r\nAlthough I've never had great handwriting, as a fiercely proud left-hander
    I've always taken great pride in each and every smudge across my page. Primary
    school teachers tried to get me to hold the pen \"properly\" but I never listened.
    Although now my hand curls around from above so much that I'm almost a pseudo-right-hander.
    :-)"
  created: '2006-05-23 02:39:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK, here's the most \"conscious\" handwriting I've\r\never done, although
    on rough paper, at the end\r\nof the calligraphy class I took.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ludovico_4775.jpg]\r\n-\r\n\r\nMy
    consolation is that I used no guides of any kind.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-23 02:55:41'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Stephen - I definitely do the same with my upper case as you'll see in my
    first sample.
  created: '2006-05-23 04:59:21'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: "> Does anyone else do a semi-cursive uppercase?\r\n\r\nYour sample looks
    <cite>almost-exactly</cite> like my uppercase handwriting. I usually write in
    two handwriting styles, a semi-unicase-semi-cursive-uppercase and cursive-script.
    I'll try and post them here when I get the chance."
  created: '2006-05-23 05:20:56'
- author:
    name: Stephen Lording
    picture: 109670
  body: "Patricia - Oh yes, I missed that one. Do you have a preference for uppercase,
    or do you find you just use it when you need to? I wonder why we prefer one to
    the other? When I was a teenager I spent far, far too many hours searching for
    the style of signature that would capture the very essence of my being (important
    task, no?), and for a while I had an uppercase version that I liked. Can't remember
    why it fell into disfavour. Redoing it now, I kind of like it more than what I
    eventually settled on. :-)\r\n\r\nGeoff - Ha. I look forward to seeing a sample!"
  created: '2006-05-24 00:35:28'
- author:
    name: oliya
    picture: 111609
  body: "Hey David, I hope you can read my handwriting :)\r\n\r\n\r\noliya | meapte.com[img:sites/default/files/old-images/oliya_note_4916.jpg]"
  created: '2006-05-24 16:04:00'
- author:
    name: oliya
    picture: 111609
  body: "oliya | meapte.com\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/note_3816.jpg]"
  created: '2006-05-24 16:09:23'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: "Let me get my glasses\u2026 ;)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: oliya
      picture: 111609
    body: "you are so sweet :)\r\nI am new here...\r\n\r\noliya | meapte.com"
    created: '2006-05-24 16:13:19'
  created: '2006-05-24 16:11:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Oliya,\r\n\r\nYour writing is gorgeous! It looks like it has a central European
    basis, perhaps Czech  or Slovak?  You have to make a font from it!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-24 17:06:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Oliya, that's pretty cool (your site too).\r\nAre you Slavic? Because there's
    a smallcapness to it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-24 17:08:19'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: "I like the Gaelic-style swung dash crossbar on the \u201Ct\u201D\u2026 and
    no ascender. Very Irish. :)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: oliya
      picture: 111609
    body: "i just looked at some Gaelic fonts, they are cool :) \r\n\r\nhttp://www.linguistsoftware.com/lgae.htm#Macintosh"
    created: '2006-05-24 17:51:03'
  created: '2006-05-24 17:24:56'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I would like to know the origins of that s\r\nTim"
  children:
  - author:
      name: oliya
      picture: 111609
    body: Tim, sorry, have no idea...just my handwriting...
    created: '2006-05-24 17:43:26'
  created: '2006-05-24 17:38:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What is/was your parents' handwriting like?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: oliya
      picture: 111609
    body: not very attractive, normal... they know it too :)
    created: '2006-05-24 17:52:50'
  created: '2006-05-24 17:45:22'
- author:
    name: DesignSlave
  body: Lol I should have chosen a fem screen name.
  created: '2006-05-25 01:08:33'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: That's one weird handwriting style!
  created: '2006-05-25 09:23:54'
date: '2006-05-11 18:33:19'
title: But how's your handwriting?

---
