---
author:
  name: stw
  picture: 110841
body: "\u2022 sans serif is better than serif\r\n\u2022 great counters\r\n\u2022 large
  x-height\r\n\u2022 the letter has to be noticeable in the upper half of the x-height\r\n\u2022
  thickness= 18% of the x-height (like ITC Officina)\r\n\u2022 extended width\r\n\u2022
  identical strokewidth (visual not geometric)\r\n\u2022 distinctive ascenders and
  descenders\r\n\u2022 binocular g and a\r\n\u2022 long crossbar on f and t\r\n\u2022
  long r (like Univers 65)\r\n\u2022 large punctuation marks\r\n\u2022 (large serifs
  like MT Sabon & ITC Stone)\r\n\r\ntake care of confusable lettercombinations: (par
  example)\r\n2z (if oldstylenumbers)\r\n0o (if oldstylenumbers)\r\n!l (solution =
  make the ! like Times New Roman)\r\n$s (solution = maybe make $ with two bars; dont
  know if it is allowed?)\r\n38\r\n\xDF8B\r\nrn = m\r\nIil!1 (solution = I with serifs
  even in a sans typeface or l with an endstroke)\r\n\r\n\u2022 make sure the font
  passes the blurtest\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------\r\n\r\nAn
  other theory is that readers read best what they read most. It seems curious that
  blackletter typestyles, which we find illegible today, were actually preferred over
  more humanistic designs during the eleventh and fifteenth centuries.\r\n\r\nbased
  on these days these fonts are:\r\n\r\nMost used fonts in newspapers:\r\n1\tPoynter
  Series\r\n2\tFranklin Gothic\r\n3\tHelvetica\r\n4\tUtopia\r\n5\tTimes\r\n6\tNimrod\r\n7\tCantury
  Old Style\r\n8\tInterstate\r\n9\tBureau Grotesque\r\n10\tMiller\r\n\r\nMost selled
  fonts - Linotype:\r\n1\tFrutiger\r\n2\tNeue Helvetica\r\n3\tOptima\r\n4\tHelvetica\r\n5\tMyriad\r\n6\tFutura\r\n7\tDIN
  1451\r\n8\tUnivers\r\n9\tEurostile\r\n10\tAvenir\r\n\r\nSo maybe the most legible
  font has to be a mishmash of these fonts!?\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------\r\n\r\nDo
  you think something is missing or is wrong!?\r\nPlease tell me\r\n\r\nSteven"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Steven, in these ~10 months that you've been on Typophile,\r\nhave you been
    reading the discussions concerning readability?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-13 14:57:12'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: "Yes, I have read a bit about it here. Sorry, I hope I dont annoy you with
    this thread!? Its more like a simple summary for myself and want to share it with
    you!? Im from Germany and sometimes its a bit hard for me to follow your discussions
    which also sometimes requires a high know how and good knowledge of the technical
    terms. So if something is totally wrong: please say it. Or if something very important
    is missing: please say it. \r\n\r\nPlease be patient with me :(\r\n\r\nSteven"
  created: '2006-05-13 15:42:47'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Your rules are mostly appropriate (though not extended width) to, say, signage
    legibility, rather than to readability - or at least I think that would be the
    majority opinion round here - just so you know.
  created: '2006-05-13 15:48:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sorry if I snapped (and certainly don't worry about annoying me). I guess
    I have a Pavlovian reaction whenever I hear the Emigre mantra, after all this
    public effort some of us put in to explain how near-sighted it is. On the other
    hand, something like \"sans serif is better than serif\" - where is that coming
    from? Are you perhaps distinguishing between legibility and readability?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-13 16:01:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Research about boybandability:\r\n\r\nBoy Member #1\r\n* Drop dead gorgeous,
    but in a pretty way. \r\n\r\nBoy Member #2\r\n* Drop dead gorgeous, but in a rugged
    way.\r\n\r\nBoy Member #3\r\n* Must be goofy looking. Added bonus points for dyed
    hair. \r\n\r\nBoy Member #4\r\n* Plain looks - could be your boy next door\r\n\r\nBoy
    Member #5\r\n* Hot looking, but in a rough and tough way. Added bonus points for
    scars and/or tattoos.\r\n\r\n--Kristina Frazier-Henry"
  created: '2006-05-13 18:16:42'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: "I am a bit cunfused.\r\nSo what exactly is the difference between legibility
    and readability!? In germany you translate both with the same word \"lesbarkeit\"\r\nI
    allways thought legibilty is the way the typeface has to look for best reading.\r\nReadability
    is how the text in itself has to look. For example: textsize, textlength, layout,
    choice of the typeface etc. \r\n\r\nSteven"
  created: '2006-05-13 21:48:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It depends who you ask (not surprisingly), with some people saying there's
    no difference* (and that's assuming we smartly ignore those who say none of it
    matters anyway). What I've found to be most useful is to see: legibility as pertaining
    to individual letters, usually seen for a long time (meaning seconds), sometimes
    at a long distance, very small (or very large), etc. - you get the picture; and
    readability to mean the comfort with which people can read a font for a long time.
    The two are really quite different - certainly not diametrically opposed, but
    I like to think of them as two vectors 90 degrees apart.\r\n\r\n* These tend to
    be the same people who don't distinguish between text and display fonts (and as
    a result can't make good ones of the former kind).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-13 22:23:42'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Readability is about continued reading, legibility about deciphering individual
    letters and words. There is a tradeoff between the two. The latter is probably
    best served by widely-spaced, monoline sans-serifs, for instance, but the former
    by contrasting seriffed fonts.\r\n\r\nHere are some rather random notes on what
    makes for readability: they're hardly the product of research, and may all be
    nonsense. \r\n\r\nThink of pattern not rhythm - i.e. robust and taut white shapes,
    not stem distance regularity.\r\n\r\nConstruction of stems, bowls, counters, cross-bars,
    diagonals, and how they join matters more than detailing.\r\n\r\nLimited but clear
    contrast assists differentiation and adds life, about 3 or 4:1 being ideal.\r\n\r\nDifferentiation
    within a small range in many aspects of the design will obliterate a consistent
    chirography; however chirography provides two (broad and pointed pen) admirable
    starting points for design, and since real calligraphy is never so geometric as,
    say, Minion one can learn from it especially once one has internalised the effects
    of miniaturisation.\r\n\r\nVariety matters especially around the top of the x-height.\r\n\r\nbpdq
    bowl-height should be apparently less than o's height.\r\n\r\nVary axes for differentiation,
    both exterior versus other exterior axes and interior versus exterior axes.\r\n\r\nVary
    textures for interior and exterior outlines: rigid and angular in one, rounded
    in the other.\r\n\r\nBasic forms may be selectively differentiated by e.g. giving
    c 16th-century Roman capital serifs, or e a terminal beak, or h a rounder right
    leg than n.\r\n\r\nText lowercase baseline serifs should be only minimally cupped,
    if at all. The primary purpose of lowercase serifs is to limit lateral interference:
    they should be long and strong. Near-equilateral triangles are not good enough.\r\n\r\nPerceived
    blackness flows into stems from intersections and serifs; smooth colour-gradations
    require the management of intersections. Thus the horizontals of n and m should
    meet the left stem immediately below the serif.\r\n\r\nDistance between stems
    of n and m should be a touch smaller at the bottom than the top if the characters
    are not to seem inflated by the open counter at the bottom.\r\n\r\nThere should
    be no superfluous neural spiking in reading - the text should be transparent.
    Difficult letter-combinations, such as gg and ra, may be ligatured.\r\n\r\nx-height
    for 12 point should be about 55% of h-height, and descender length about 55% to
    75% of ascender length.\r\n\r\nExamples of quasi-Aldine proportions: <code>\r\n----------------16
    pt---11 pt---8 pt\r\nx-height--------4.5-----5-------5.5\r\nItalic Cap------5.5-----6-------6.5\r\nRoman
    Cap-------6.5-----7-------7.5\r\nh-height--------7.5-----8-------8.5\r\np-height--------7.5-----7.5-----7.5\r\nLeading---------1.5-----1.5-----1.5\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nIn
    small text, small irregularities, white and black, should be relatively larger.\r\n\r\nBoth
    nearest points and stem-distance matter in spacing. At 12 point, optical space
    between characters should be about three quarters of that within the characters'
    counters. At 8 point it should be about seven eighths."
  created: '2006-05-13 22:26:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Steven, in my post of May 2, in <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/19613\">this
    thread</a> I gave what I think is the standard distinction between 'legibility'
    and 'readability' in English. It is controversial whether the distinction is really
    valid. \r\n\r\nIf you do a search on 'readability' in the typophile search box,
    you will find more than you want to read on readability!\r\n\r\nHere are two of
    the longer threads: \r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/14373\">\"Readability
    and Readerability\"</a> and <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/17431\">\"What
    makes and italic easier to read?\"</a>  "
  created: '2006-05-13 22:28:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "George: I like.\r\n\r\n> taut white shapes\r\n\r\nOoooh baby.\r\n;-)\r\n\r\n>
    the standard distinction between \u2018legibility\u2019 and \u2018readability\u2019
    in English. \r\n\r\nExcept we don't use standard English.  :-)\r\n\r\nEverybody
    knows that when a type designer talks\r\nonly other type designers believe he's
    even human.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-13 23:00:23'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: "Thank you all for your explanations.\r\nI will absorb it and save it in my
    vocabulary.\r\n\r\nThank you very much George for sharing your notes. They are
    quite helpfull for a beginner like me to differ a readable and a less-readable
    typeface from each other.\r\n\r\nBut I have one more silly question:\r\nWhat makes
    a typeface more readable for a visually impaired reader!?\r\nDo you have to design
    a textface more \"legible\" that every single letter could be recognised directly!?
    (almost the same rules like for signage legibility)"
  created: '2006-05-13 23:36:37'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: I should think so, yes. There was a bit of a scandal over Tiresias, a "research-based"
    type design project making a TV subtitling font for the visually impaired; I don't
    know whether there's any better research on this specifically.
  created: '2006-05-13 23:47:15'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "What do discussions, definitinal and substantive, about legibility and readability
    tell me about whether I should set an edition of Moby Dick in Cheltenham, Gill
    Sans or Eaglefeather?\r\n\r\nIs there evidence that the average literate person
    is having problems understanding the myriad texts in myriad type faces that he
    or she encounters every day?\r\n\r\nShould I be telling my optometrist that my
    new prescription may be wrong because the typography on the test that he gave
    me last week may not have been optimal?\r\n\r\nAnyone know what type was used
    for the first edition of Moby Dick?  I'm thinking of writing a PhD thesis on whether
    the novel was panned because the type had the wrong bouma shape.\r\n\r\nAll in
    fun..."
  created: '2006-05-14 01:00:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "George, thanks so much for the results of your research in to the Aldine
    face.\r\n\r\nFascinating, and of course all debatable!\r\n\r\nSteven, you should
    know that the state of research on readablity and legibility is not yet that strong.
    There are a lot of claims made for various type faces, but when you look into
    them, they do not actually have a solid research result behind them.  "
  created: '2006-05-14 01:03:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">we don\u2019t use standard English. \r\n\r\nTrue, the distinction between
    legibility and readablity is only used by people interested in type--and not all
    of them. I suspect that it came into existence in the 1930s, and I am guessing
    was introduced Stanley Morrison or Beatrice Warde. I would actually be interested
    to know the history of the distinction. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: redge
    body: "\"...the distiction between legibility and readability is used only by
      people interested in type - and not all of them.\"\r\n\r\nOne of the things
      that I like about Bringhurst's book is that he treats the issue of choosing
      type principally as a design issue, and he is quite clear about his design considerations
      (which one may or may not accept).\r\n\r\nThe words \"legibility\" and \"readability\"
      don't even appear in his index. \r\n\r\nThere may be an argument for this kind
      of research as pure research, but as applied research it strikes me (with apologies
      to Luigi Pirandello) as research in search of a problem, and a non-existent
      problem at that.\r\n\r\nI guess that I'd like to think that after a few millenia
      of writing, people would have figured out how to write in a way that is legible
      and readable. Indeed, I was under the impression, when I was in grade school,
      that that is what my teachers were attempting to instill when we spent all that
      time learning to write. \r\n\r\nThe trickier question, and the one that Bringhurst
      focuses on, properly in my view, is what type to choose for a modern edition
      of Moby Dick. \r\n\r\nCheers"
    created: '2006-05-14 02:38:00'
  created: '2006-05-14 01:20:24'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: 'Bill, stress the quasi in quasi-Aldine ;). It''s the best MM scaling I could
    think of that gives useful proportions, compromising between Aldus'' and Griffo''s
    (and indeed Jenson''s, for the 16 point) practice. '
  created: '2006-05-14 02:07:25'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: But as Bringhurst recognises, the best text type designers rethink their letters
    from the inside out, in structural rather than merely ornamental terms, at the
    levels of glyph-component, word and textblock; and the features which make for
    readability often follow from those same structural considerations that determine
    much of a good text type's character.
  created: '2006-05-14 03:05:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The relevance of readability comes not from asking a layman if he can read
    the word \"dog\" in a given font; it comes from the very real -if extremely hard
    to measure- fatigue a reader feels after hours immersed in a text, where things
    like setting a book in a sans will get you (even though you might have no idea
    why). This is what separates the mimics from the men so to speak (no sexism intended)
    in text face design.\r\n\r\n> The words \u201Clegibility\u201D and \u201Creadability\u201D
    don\u2019t even appear in his index.\r\n\r\nAlso, he is a poet.\r\nTreat RB's
    book (or really any book) as gospel, and you will get nowhere.\r\n\r\nChoosing
    a culturally valid font for Moby Dick is exactly\r\nonly half the problem. And
    the superficial, easy half at that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-14 03:22:00'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "\"...the best text type designers rethink their letters from the inside out,
    in structural rather than merely ornamental terms...\"\r\n\r\nMy personal view
    is that structure is nesessary, but that ornament and other attributes of style
    differentiate between what is necessary and what is aesthetically pleasing.\r\n\r\nNot
    everyone would agree with one or both of the foregoing statements. \r\n\r\nThis
    is getting a long way from the original post. I just think that it is useful,
    if one wants to learn about and use type, to focus first on broader issues than
    legibility and readability. Why?  Because I think that as a practical matter there
    are a lot of legible, readable type faces and there is more to be learned by paying
    attention to the aesthetic differences between them in relation to what one wants
    to communicate."
  created: '2006-05-14 03:47:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> focus first on broader issues than legibility and readability.\r\n\r\nI
    prefer to focus on both facets, from day one until the end.\r\nEven though I find
    aesthetic issues quite boring. This is in\r\nfact the problem with designers who
    demote functionality:\r\nthey can't get themselves to pay attention to something
    they\r\nfind boring. Generally, they're too artsy to care about what\r\nusers
    really need (even if they never realize that). In contrast,\r\nI find that designers
    who enjoy functionality often have a more\r\nself-disciplined, humble philosophy.\r\n\r\nBut
    it's OK, we need you guys too.  :-)\r\nEven if you fail to see that you in turn
    need us.\r\n\r\n> there is more to be learned by paying attention to the aesthetic
    differences\r\n\r\nFor a layman reading 9 pt text immersively, this is quite implausible.\r\nYour
    stance is confined to display typography.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-14 04:08:43'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I think terms like readability and legibility have an uncertain or unstable
    existence in the typographical domain because, while they seem to evoke relevant
    considerations, they have never been fully specified in perceptual processing
    terms. A more native use of the terms exist outside type: a sample of writing
    is legible or it is illegible; texts are readable or unreadable (in discourse-analytic
    terms).\r\n\r\nHowever, understanding the perceptual processing impact of manipulating
    typeform microvariables might be applicable if the notational devices that make
    up our writing systems are \"constrained by the propensities and limitations of
    the human hand and eye.\" (Bringurst)\r\n\r\nAnd perhaps more important than aesthetic
    differences--which is less of a concern to Bringhurtst than cultural differences--are
    gestural-atmospheric differences.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-05-14 04:12:22'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "enne_son,\r\n\r\nWhen I use the phrase \"aesthetic differences\", I mean
    it as a shorthand phrase that includes artistic, cultural, historic and contextual
    considerations of the kind that Bringhurst discusses, especially in chapter six
    of his book."
  created: '2006-05-14 04:30:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Although the feeling of fatigue may be subjective and individually variable,
    eye fatigue is associated with specific muscle activity around the eye, which
    can be quite precisely measured with the correct tools. So fatigue, or rather
    the physiological activity that results in fatigue, is actually one of the easier
    things to measure.\r\n\r\nBut are you retreating to a position of fatigue reduction,
    Hrant? In the past you have posited possible improvements in speed and accuracy."
  created: '2006-05-14 04:38:43'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nAre you suggesting that this business about legibility and readability
    is ultimately about Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics :)?"
  created: '2006-05-14 04:49:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, I feel those all boil down to the same thing (and this seems to be
    one thing Kevin and I agree on). Helping saccades get longer translates to less
    fatigue in the long run. Because in the end, it very rarely matters how fast you
    read something, what matters is, is the reader discouraged enough (via fatigue)
    to not finish the piece; is a usability threshold crossed. That said, the reason
    to concentrate on something like saccade length is that it's so much more direct
    and measurable.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-14 04:56:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "For the typographer, optimizing readability doesn't just depend on the choice
    of typeface, but on other variables such as size, leading, line length, paper
    stock, page size, layout hierarchy, margin size, amount of text, and who's doing
    the reading.\r\nChanging any one of these variables affects the others.\r\n\r\nIn
    the real world, one is faced with deciding between typeface A which looks better
    at 9.5/13, and typeface B which looks better at 9/14. Unless laboratory testing
    develops an index of readability for all the typographic variables, it's of no
    practical use in any but the most banal typographic projects.\r\n\r\nFor standard
    formats on standard equipment, such as templates in Microsoft Word, running on
    Vista with ClearType fonts, reading research has no doubt been useful in font
    development. But if people generally want some research-proven rules to follow
    about what typefaces are best for original layouts and design, that's not possible.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-14 07:56:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> For the typographer, optimizing readability\r\n> doesn\u2019t just depend
    on the choice of typeface\r\n\r\n1) That goes without saying.\r\n2) For the text
    face designer, it's extremely significant.\r\n\r\n> it\u2019s of no practical
    use\r\n\r\nOn the contrary. It can help Redge decide against considering Gill
    Sans for a book, it can reduce the chances of people using negative tracking to
    save space, and all kinds of other nice things.\r\n\r\n> if people generally want\r\n\r\nWell,
    people want all kinds of dumb things. But a lot of smart people feel they need
    some degree (not absolute) help from empiricism, because they're mature enough
    to realize they're not omniscient artistes.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-15 22:22:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">eye fatigue ...can be quite precisely measured with the correct tools. So
    fatigue ...is actually one of the easier things to measure.\r\n\r\nI think there
    are other important dimensions of reading comfort. There is brain fatigue as well
    as eye fatigue. I think you might be able to test this by seeing after what time
    readers' comprehension falls off. I suspect that this would not just be the measurable
    eye strain. \r\n\r\nAs I remember, Kevin Larson was reported here has having tested
    people's ability to use concepts they read, and found lay-out mattered. I think
    the same thing would prove true with type face, though perhaps longer reader periods
    would be necessary to show the difference. \r\n\r\nNick, that lay-out factors
    are equally or more important than type face does not contradict the claim that
    there are important differences in readability of typefaces, especially at text
    sizes. \r\n\r\nI think if even redge had to read a long book in 10 pt Helvetica
    or old-style italic, and had the same book set in 10 pt Sabon or Minion, he would
    be mighty tempted to switch to the book set in these real text faces.  "
  children:
  - author:
      name: redge
    body: "\"I think even if redge had to read a long book in 10pt Helvetica...\"\r\n\r\nActually,
      I didn't say a single thing that suggests that I would do that.\r\n\r\nIn fact,
      I said a few days ago in another thread that I was adamant about using serif
      for the book that I'm working on despite suggestions from participants in this
      forum that I look at sans serif types. \r\n\r\nThe Straw Man makes a great character
      in The Wizard of Oz, but a very poor basis for an argument. \r\n\r\nCheers"
    created: '2006-05-16 02:47:35'
  created: '2006-05-15 23:12:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>As I remember, Kevin Larson was reported here has having tested people\u2019s
    ability to use concepts they read, and found lay-out mattered. </em>\r\n\r\nNot
    quite. This relates to Kevin's presentation in Helsinki. It does not have to do
    with ability to make use of concepts in what has been read, but in the ability
    of the mind to solve puzzle-like tasks after enlivening mental activity. The basic
    observation had been established in experiments in which subjects were given tasks
    to perform after a drily delivered lecture and a humourous video. Consistently,
    subjects performed the tasks better after the humourous video. Kevin's tests found
    subjects performed tasks better after reading a well typeset document than after
    reading a poorly typeset document. The tasks are not related to the content of
    the reading."
  created: '2006-05-15 23:57:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">The tasks are not related to the content of the reading.\r\n\r\nThanks for
    explaining it. That's interesting also. Is it because the well type-set text and
    humorous video are less fatiguing? Did he have any theory about it?"
  created: '2006-05-16 00:13:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">There may be an argument for this kind of research [on readability] as pure
    research, but as applied research it strikes me (with apologies to Luigi Pirandello)
    as research in search of a problem, and a non-existent problem at that.\r\n\r\n>I
    just think that it is useful, if one wants to learn about and use type, to focus
    first on broader issues than legibility and readability. Why? Because I think
    that as a practical matter there are a lot of legible, readable type faces and
    there is more to be learned by paying attention to the aesthetic differences between
    them in relation to what one wants to communicate.\r\n\r\nMy example was to show
    that it is quite important practically how readable a typeface is--something I
    thought, perhaps mistakenly, you rejected in the above quotations.\r\n\r\nA person
    designing a typeface intended for text should, I think, be extremely concerned
    about its readability. Otherwise it is going to be a bad text face. For the text
    type designer it should not be a 'non-existent problem'.  \r\n\r\nAnd similarly
    when a graphic designer sets extended text, he or she should be concerned that
    the typeface and the layout together are readable. And this involves looking at
    both the qualities of the typeface and the layout, both of which will contribute
    to readability or detract from it. It is not a trivial problem to produce readable
    text, I think, particularly when the designer also needs to be addressing the
    production and aesthetic demands of a text to be printed. \r\n\r\nAesthetics are
    interesting and important, but it seems to me readability is also at least equally
    worth focusing on for extended text. This you seemed explicitly to deny. Did I
    misread you? "
  created: '2006-05-16 03:08:21'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "Actually, I agree with everything that you are saying.  If I wanted to quibble,
    I'd say only that aesthetics and readability, except where there is a deliberate
    decision to divorce the two, are co-incident.  \r\n\r\nI agree that a beginning
    designer needs to learn about what is legible and readable, although I'd also
    like to think that that is not a difficult thing to learn.\r\n\r\nI also have
    no problem if someone wants to say that there is a holy grail of legibility and
    readability that, once observed, will leave the last few millenia in the dust.
    \r\n\r\nThat said, I don't believe that the holy grail, if there is one, will
    be found by studying bouma shape.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, I do believe that
    there are developments in type that reflect cultural changes (New York subway
    grafitti is an obvious example), and that become art (the kind of thing that people
    like Basquiat did with subway art). \r\n\r\nI guess that I just figure that I'll
    leave the search for holy grail, if it conceived as an empirical exercise, to
    someone else, especially since there is so much beauty (not to mention legibility
    and readability) in what we already have. \r\n\r\nCheers"
  created: '2006-05-16 03:36:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">there is a holy grail of legibility and readability that, once observed,
    will leave the last few millenia in the dust.\r\n\r\nOk, now it's my turn. Where
    did I say or imply that? \r\n\r\nIt isn't a 'straw man', but it ain't me :)"
  created: '2006-05-16 04:01:07'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "My point was that I agree with you. I don't think that you have said anything
    that is controversial.\r\n\r\nMy comment is a reaction to some of the things said
    in this thread and in some of the threads that are linked. \r\n\r\nI should add
    that I've edited my last post a bit, which may or may not clarify things and/or
    get me into more hot water :)"
  created: '2006-05-16 04:07:33'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nI hope that there is a Cuban or Cuban expatriat who will respond
    to the thread in the design forum on revolutionary Cuba. \r\n\r\nTHAT is an interesting
    subject.\r\n\r\nAny comments yourself?"
  created: '2006-05-16 04:25:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Redge, in <cite>this</cite> thread, you asked: \"What do discussions, definitinal
    and substantive, about legibility and readability tell me about whether I should
    set an edition of Moby Dick in Cheltenham, Gill Sans or Eaglefeather?\" People
    have been discussing the unsuitability of sans fonts (such as Gill, and Helvetica)
    for setting long texts for ages, including on Typophile for 6 years. Many of us
    have done at least a fair job explaining why/that serifs help reading; certainly
    a much better job than the self-serving hackneyed droning of the Emigre mantra,
    or the cloying cultural over-valuation of poets.\r\n\r\n> aesthetics and readability,
    except where there is a\r\n> deliberate decision to divorce the two, are co-incident.\r\n\r\nPoppycock.\r\nLife
    isn't so one-dimensional.\r\n\r\n> that is not a difficult thing to learn.\r\n\r\nOn
    the contrary, it's so difficult that even over\r\na century after Javal's discovery
    we're fumbling.\r\n\r\nHoly Grail? No such thing. More like a taming of selfish
    artistry,\r\nin order to help users, not humor one's own ego, or accomodate one's\r\nintellectual
    lethargy.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW, editing is for the fearful.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: redge
    body: "Hi hrant,\r\n\r\nThanks so much for explaning to me that I shouldn't set
      Moby Dick in Gill Sans. Until you came to my rescue, I was on the verge of making
      a big mistake.\r\n\r\nHow about if I set it in Eaglefeather?  That way I could
      make an oblique reference to the close relationship between Herman Melville
      and Frank Lloyd Wright, which everyone knows about seein' as how Wright had
      a copy of Moby Dick in his library.  Besides, they were both Americans.   \r\n\r\nIf
      you don't like that idea, how about Cheltenham?  I hear that it is even better
      than Times Roman. I also hear that the New York Times has recently decided to
      use Cheltenham, and New York isn't all that far from where Moby Dick starts
      off, although I'll admit that there aren't a lot of big white/albino killer
      whales in the Hudson River.\r\n\r\nHow much would it cost me to hire you to
      do some empirical research to figure out this problem, especially figuring out
      the most legible/readable type?  I'm especially concerned because when Moby
      Dick got published, it was a good deal less successful than the Da Vinci Code,
      and I figure that you might be able to explain why Dan Brown's book is a hit
      and Melville's book was a bust. \r\n\r\nYours in anticipation, and with an open
      chequebook,\r\n\r\nredge\r\n\r\nPS. I agree that Cuba is boring, but as you
      point out it is relevant. Hemmingway's old man, unlike Melville's guy,  managed
      to catch his fish. You can see what I am up against, trying to publish a book
      about a fisherman who can't catch worth a damn."
    created: '2006-05-16 05:09:09'
  created: '2006-05-16 04:39:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> THAT is an interesting subject.\r\n\r\nBoring as hell to me.\r\nBut I would
    be an idiot to ignore its relevance.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-16 04:40:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So, when you finally break down and reply to me directly (it didn't take
    much for your covert resolve* to wilt) you resort to tired Anglo humor to avoid
    actually making sense. I've seen this so many times, it's become utterly, predictably
    boring. Be forewarned however, when the humor fails even more clearly than the
    feeble attempts at logic, the next stage is often a frothing rage. But please,
    instead of cutting your ear off, go paint something. And keep it confined to your
    bedroom.\r\n\r\n* Using the word lightly.\r\n\r\n> I was on the verge of making
    a big mistake.\r\n\r\nNo, the mistake is in your distant past.\r\nAnd the further
    it falls back, the harder\r\nit will be to see and correct.\r\n\r\n> you might
    be able to explain\r\n\r\nNo, I can't explain the behavior of masses\r\nof peons,
    and I don't care to. I'm not into\r\nfashion - my idea of culture is different.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    Cuba isn't boring at all. But ignoring the needs of regular Cuban citizens in
    favor of masturbating about some semi-hallucinatory cultural insight into its
    past is not only boring, but vapid.\r\n\r\nIf you want to really understand type,
    get over your lack of interest in\r\nfunctionality, and learn about how humans
    work. Otherwise you'll be\r\nstuck in the dumb buxom-blonde world of display typography.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nIt's
    always the same with artistes butting into threads about functionality\r\nsimply
    to tell people to stop talking about it. Note that the other way around\r\nalmost
    never happens. Why? Maturity, objectivity, doubt. All anathema to painting pretty
    pictures.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-16 05:47:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, that lay-out factors are equally or more important than type face
    does not contradict the claim that there are important differences in readability
    of typefaces, especially at text sizes.</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps there are, but they
    can't be meaningfully measured as there are too many variables. With one set of
    fixed parameters, it may be possible to say that subject A preferred one typeface
    over another, when set at a certain point size, leading, line length etc, for
    text of a particular length, on a particular subject. But it's impossible in practice
    to vary all the parameters against one another to create a \"readability index\"
    for typefaces.\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-16 06:08:16'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nAt the risk of seeming like an arteest, Don't you think there
    is a limit to how much we can discuss readability without additional work at developing
    typefaces specifically geared toward reading comfort, and also without mechanisms
    for testing them (and other, existing typefaces)? In other words, whenever someone
    asks about readability, there is a lot of discussion, but the final collection
    of data is always so impoverished. I have my theories, as well, but I can't spend
    time explaining them, if there are no prospects for new experiments that test
    the theories. I'd rather work on the experiments. What is the ideal testing environment?
    Can we propose some controls and methods to appropriate scientists? "
  created: '2006-05-16 06:28:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Note that the other way around almost never happens.</em>\r\n\r\nExcept
    when someone mentions Mrs Eves or Bodoni as a text face, and Hrant starts spouting
    his you-don't-know-readability mantra."
  created: '2006-05-16 06:33:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Carl:\r\nYes, I do think there's a limit. When we collectively\r\ncome close
    enough to it, I'll stop yakking, I promise.  :-)\r\n\r\n> I have my theories\r\n\r\nGood.
    And lacking \"proof\" of them might limit how far you'd dare to apply your theories,
    but that can't stop you from applying them <cite>somehow</cite>. Otherwise you'd
    be guilty of hypocricy. Different people have different thresholds of crossing
    from assumption into action; the important thing is to care.\r\n\r\nAs for the
    issue of What Is A Good Test, that's exactly what needs to be figured out. I have
    heard some good ideas, including on Typophile by people like Peter E, but since
    actual practice in the field is so, so far from any ideal, this is actually an
    area where frankly I <cite>am</cite> hopeful of being paid to put some serious
    concrete thought into it by somebody or other eventually. What can I say, I'm
    an optimist. Now, I'm not the only person who can pull this off - but there certainly
    aren't many of us. So I'm saving myself so to speak.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-16 06:46:27'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: My eyes are bad, and getting worse, so my view of legibility would be anything
    12 points and over. Not constructive I am afraid, but it does have something to
    do with the question
  created: '2006-05-16 06:51:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, I'm not the only person who thinks Mrs Eaves* and/or Bodoni are flawed
    as text faces. Think of Robin Kinross for the former, and G W Ovink for the latter.
    You've been told this before, by people besides me, but somehow you manage to
    forget it. I understand, it's simply too inconvenient.\r\n\r\n* BTW, if you think
    poor spacing has no effect on reading: please stop droning on about the Divinity
    of Even Color; and you might actually be in agreement with Kevin on something!\r\n\r\nBut
    anyway, I was actually talking about something else: how discussions of culture
    and aesthetics don't seem to get interrupted with \"Don't you talk about that!\"
    tantrums.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-16 06:54:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, I\u2019m not the only person who thinks Mrs Eaves* and/or Bodoni
    are flawed as text faces. </em>\r\n\r\nTheir merit as text faces is not at issue:
    rather, your bitching about readability threads being hijacked by designers is,
    and saying it rarely goes the other way, when in fact you are always going on
    about your readability theories at the slightest opportunity. But of course, change
    the subject, a convenient distraction.\r\n\r\nBTW, I don't know where you get
    the idea I think those faces are good for text. I've never used or recommended
    Mrs Eaves. I've tried all the Bodonis -- they're difficult to work with, but some
    versions are suitable for some text uses.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nPerhaps the reason
    some designers and typographers are antipathetic to readability research is because
    they feel threatened by it. If one has spent many years acquiring a refined sensibility,
    and non-practitioners seek to quantify that in a banal manner, there's reason
    enough for hostility, protecting your turf. Especially when a company like Microsoft
    is involved -- your favourite bugbear, middle aged Anglo creatives, are all too
    familiar with the way hard-earned skills have been replaced by automated software.
    \r\n\r\nWhat does the future hold in store? Already MS is touting the scientifically-proven
    readability benefits of its ClearType faces in marketing language, so who needs
    a typographer to spec a typeface when the engineer can tell the client what works
    best?\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-16 09:06:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you are always going on about your readability theories\r\n\r\nBut critically,
    not to the point of excluding the other half, is the point. Presenting opinions
    is one thing, trying to prevent others from doing so quite another. And it has
    seemed to me that those who prefer to focus more on aesthetics have a lesser tolerance
    of the other half than the other way around.\r\n\r\n> they feel threatened by
    it.\r\n\r\nExactly. Weak.\r\n\r\n> your favourite bugbear, middle aged Anglo creatives\r\n\r\nAlmost:
    remove \"creatives\" (such a dumb term anyway, as if they have the monopoly on
    creativity just because they've put themselves -or more often ended up- in a position
    of painting pretty pictures), and add \"males\". And it's not my imagination:
    the proportion of hostility towards me coming from that narrow demographic is
    extremely telling.\r\n\r\n> hard-earned skills\r\n\r\nOh, but of course, the dumb,
    boring technical people have acquired their insights with no effort. Ask yourself:
    why do they seem to feel less threatened by flaming primadonna artists posing
    as designers who want to throw empiricism -not to mention plain old analysis-
    out the window without a second thought?\r\n\r\n> who needs a typographer to spec
    a typeface\r\n\r\nI wouldn't call the type of person you're talking about a \"typographer\",
    or even a designer of any sort. What you're talking about is a person primarily
    interested in expressing himself. Boring, and pretty useless. But luckily for
    them, there will always be people who fawn over the behavior and output of others,
    just like the masses of peons adulating celebrities. \"Ooooh, your fonts are so
    pretttty! I don't care what kind of person you really are, just sleep with me...
    I'll even pay you!\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-16 13:34:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The subvisible subtlety and power of the text face cannot be\r\nappreciated
    and certainly not leveraged by mere aesthetics alone.\r\nTo contrast it with the
    display face, I allude to this singular quote:\r\n\r\n\"The poster is to art what
    rape is to love.\"\r\n- A M Cassandre\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-16 13:40:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\u201CThe poster is to art what rape is to love.\u201D\r\n- A M Cassandre\"\r\n\r\nCassandre
    must have been a virgin.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-16 14:14:08'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Do you think something is missing or is wrong!? Please tell me\"\r\n\r\nDear
    Steven. You've got to put the term, whether it is legibility or readability, into
    a context before you can say anything specific about the type. Otherwise, like
    many here, you can get sucked into generalized statements that do not apply outside
    of a specific context. \r\n\r\nFor example: \r\n\" sans serif is better than serif\r\n\"\u2022
    great counters\r\n\u2022 large x-height....\"\r\n\r\n...None of your list is true
    ALL of the time on screen, :)\r\nand all of your list is true SOME of the time
    in print. :)"
  created: '2006-05-16 14:23:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>> they feel threatened by it.\r\nExactly. Weak.</em>\r\n\r\nYeah, despise
    the weak, suck up to the software giants.\r\nTechno-fascism, dude.\r\n\r\n <em>\u201Ccreatives\u201D
    (such a dumb term anyway...</em>\r\n\r\nFormally, we'd rather be referred to as
    information architects or branding consultants -- so much more bankable monikers,
    without the stigma of effete artistry.\r\n\r\n<em>why do they seem to feel less
    threatened by flaming primadonna artists posing as designers who want to throw
    empiricism -not to mention plain old analysis- out the window without a second
    thought?</em>\r\n\r\nThat's not the case with professional \"creative\" organizations
    like AIGA or RGD. The RGD organized to counter DTP, and has evolved to point its
    members towards being more straight and businesslike. As a job description, the
    term \"creatives\" evolved many years ago in advertising agencies; on one floor
    you'd have the \"suits\" -- account people -- and on another the \"creatives\"
    -- writers and art directors. As such, \"creatives\" are not artists. Creatives
    are art directors, (copy)writers, designers and studio production workers. Most
    definitely not artists, as a similar cultural divide exists at art/design school,
    between pure and applied, and the different groups frequently despise each other.
    Really, creatives have a poorly paid turf to protect, their career decision has
    been to take a middle path between art and engineering. You should know this stuff.\r\n\r\nPeople
    like Carl, David and myself are not averse to the technical (it's part of the
    balance we're trying to keep), which is why we'd like to see some useful information,
    rather than theoretical speculation, that could illuminate real-world typography
    with real typefaces in real settings. Where's the beef, dude?\r\n\r\n<em>Oh, but
    of course, the dumb, boring technical people have acquired their insights with
    no effort.</em>\r\n\r\nEr, no, that's not what I said. Your logic is, as usual,
    inflamatory and fallacious. I say \"I like pink,\" and you say, \"oh yeah, so
    you hate blue\". Peace out, dude.\r\n\r\n<em>I am hopeful of being paid to put
    some serious concrete thought into it by somebody or other eventually. What can
    I say, I\u2019m an optimist. </em>\r\n\r\nKeep submitting those grant applications.\r\n\r\n--Nick
    Shinn, R.G.D."
  created: '2006-05-16 19:41:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You can call your daughter George, but that won't make her a boy.\r\n\r\nYou
    wouldn't [care to] do anything\r\nwith \"useful information\"... unless\r\nyour
    income depended on it.\r\n\r\nBTW, Carl is nothing like you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-16 20:33:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>unless your income depended on it.</em>\r\n\r\nHow's the Baskerville
    coming?"
  created: '2006-05-16 22:10:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's gonna splode in your face. Bouma!!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-16 22:34:05'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: 'You make a stranger point than you intended, Hrant: what a wave of love and
    unknowing one feels, in the abstract dawn of an urban homecoming, when even a
    misplaced nightingale remembers the name of one''s favourite, male-named girl...
    I''m not talking of burly bonne-famille Frank, but rather of just the kind of
    name you mention - my first girlfriend, I hope not in mere solipsism, was called
    George. '
  created: '2006-05-17 01:45:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, that is strange.\r\nAnd it triggers a memory I thought was long dead,
    of a movie I watched as a kid at the Sherlock Holmes hotel in London: it was called
    \"Dr Jekyll and <cite>Mrs</cite> Hyde\" (italic mine), where instead of turning
    into a murderous man the protagonist would turn into a nymphomaniacal vixen, and
    would quite understandably feel him/herself up before each night's alter-ego escapade.
    Not surprisingly, that's all I remember about the movie.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-17 10:40:32'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "<cite>your favourite bugbear, middle aged Anglo creatives</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Almost:
    remove \u201Ccreatives\u201D (such a dumb term anyway, as if they have the monopoly
    on creativity just because they\u2019ve put themselves -or more often ended up-
    in a position of painting pretty pictures), and add \u201Cmales\u201D. And it\u2019s
    not my imagination: the proportion of hostility towards me coming from that narrow
    demographic is extremely telling.</cite>\r\n\r\nHrant, isn't this painting with
    very broad strokes?\r\n\r\nIf someone had had made a statement such as: \"I have
    a real problem with [anglo/latin/asian/african/etc] men in their mid thirties.
    I am not imagining it, a number of them have been openly hostile when discussing
    the subject of readability/legibility\" it would sound ridiculous wouldn't it?\r\n\r\nIf
    you feel that you are being slighted by the entire 'middle aged anglo male' demographic
    rather than just those on Typophile, you could probably find a more relevant site
    on which to air your grieviances. One of the beauties of Typophile is its broad
    spectrum of users. People getting unfairly lumped into categories on the grounds
    of lineage is a bit poor frankly..."
  created: '2006-05-17 12:25:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) The data is definitely there. But what things it means for sure, I agree
    I can't fully know. But I <cite>have</cite> to guess - something everybody does,
    it's just that some of share our guesses more.\r\n2) Needless to say not every
    member of that demographic has a problem with me. In fact on occasion one of them
    will come forth (often in private) to apologize for the behavior of another member.
    This once happened when somebody deployed the classic xenophobic \"go back to
    where you came from\" on the ATypI list.\r\n3) More than complaining, I'm trying
    to see, show, and understand. One thing I've said about this in the past is that
    our personal opinions, hence our disagreements, stem largely from our circusmstances
    and our upbringing, and people from very different demographics will inherently
    clash - in a way you could say that we can neither take full credit nor can we
    be held totally accountable for our opinions (and hence indirectly our actions).
    Now, usually, the more different a pair of demographics the less chance they'll
    get in contact (especially in the past when geography was less overcome) and this
    is sort of a natural check against conflict; but exceptions do happen, and they
    require extra careful handling. BTW, all this is perhaps why my analysis of discoursive
    rivals is often seen as offensive: because it gets \"too personal\". But that's
    the necessary context, and shunning it takes the soul out of discussion - it becomes
    confined to sort of a clinical, formal venting - a waste.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-17 14:37:16'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "\r\nHrant grudge against the Brits has roots in the Armenian issue (and me
    thinking the Turks had something to do with it...) as he admitted in the unrequested
    messages sent to me privately (that because he assumed I was English...).\r\nI
    have also pointed out the great thing about interacting with people from different
    backgrounds etc.. to which he answered \"Typophile is not the UN\"...whatever
    that means.\r\nThe fact that someone is new at Typophile is also another reason
    for Hrant's personal attacks and cheap shots. \r\nHe might be God's gift to Typography
    (and who am I?) but isn't he also becoming some sort of folkloric character? "
  created: '2006-05-17 15:20:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Complete lack of understanding and false assumptions in every\r\nsingle detail.
    Every single one. Even Nick doesn't manage that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-17 15:25:48'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "You said once : you are both phisically and psychologically from his island\".
    Please tell me how can I put this sort of comments in context? How can you possibly
    think that I can understand that just because you are an important member of the
    typographic community?\r\nI asked you why you had a problem with Brits and you
    answered it. Cool, now we know. You have your reasons to attack British policies
    but have the guts to do it in public. Aren't you always the first to expect people
    to be frank and open? People say things and behind what they say there is what
    they think and behind what they think there is what they are. So what this sort
    of comments do for you?"
  created: '2006-05-17 15:57:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>just because you are an important member of the typographic community?</em>\r\n\r\nLOL!\r\nPhysically
    and psychologically, a Los Angeles celebrity--famous for being notorious, rather
    than for any real accomplishments."
  created: '2006-05-17 17:05:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> ... always the first to expect people to be frank and open? ...\r\n\r\nSo
    now you're harping at me for being too much like you?  :-/\r\n\r\nLorenza, we're
    different. Let's relinquish control in favor\r\nof tolerance. I truly believe
    that thick skin is more <cite>useful</cite>,\r\nto more people, than confining
    thoughts.\r\n\r\nYou're still young (at least is seems that way)\r\nso I hope
    that we can harmonize a bit more.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-17 17:13:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> rather than for any real accomplishments.\r\n\r\nIndeed. Please read the
    last bit here:\r\nhttp://www.daidala.com/25apr2004.html\r\n\r\nMy consolation:
    I know it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-17 17:19:33'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: 'Believe me: I need to harmonize with you (physically or psychologically)
    like I need a bullet in my head.'
  created: '2006-05-17 19:08:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't feel the same way. I'm not finished growing (and hopefully never
    will be).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-17 19:09:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Growth is most open to those who are open to it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-17 19:15:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And tolerance is the key to the door.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-17 19:23:30'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" \u201COoooh, your fonts are so pretttty! I don\u2019t care what kind of
    person you really are, just sleep with me\u2026 I\u2019ll even pay you!\u201D\r\n\r\nThis
    line is lifted, word-for-word from \"Desperate Fontwives\", wasn't it?"
  created: '2006-05-18 13:02:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"This line is lifted, word-for-word from \u201CDesperate Fontwives\u201D,...\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!!
    \ Sounds like counterespionage :-)\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-18 13:23:20'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "FYI --\r\nThe <a href=\"http://psychology.wichita.edu/surl/newsletter.htm\"
    target-\"new\">Software Usability Research Laboratory</a>, Dept. of Psychology,Wichita
    State University, has posted several reports on screen legibility of fonts based
    on their \"own\" lab tests and surveys. \r\n\r\nBy no means <strong>conclusive</strong>,
    but <em>interesting</em> at least:\r\n \r\n- <a href=\"http://psychology.wichita.edu/surl/usabilitynews/81/PersonalityofFonts.htm\"
    target=\"new\">Perception of Fonts: Perceived Personality Traits and Uses</a>\r\n\r\n-
    <a href=\"http://psychology.wichita.edu/surl/usabilitynews/52/UK_font.htm\" target=\"new\">A
    Comparison of Two Computer Fonts:\r\n Serif versus Ornate Sans Serif</a>\r\n\r\n-
    <a href=\"http://psychology.wichita.edu/surl/usabilitynews/81/legibility.htm\"
    target=\"new\">Examining the Legibility of Two New ClearType Fonts</a>\r\n\r\n-
    <a href=\"http://psychology.wichita.edu/surl/usabilitynews/3S/font.htm\" target=\"new\">A
    Comparison of Popular Online Fonts: Which is Best and When?</a>"
  created: '2006-05-18 13:28:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" Boring, and pretty useless. \"\r\n\r\nI'll say. \r\n\r\nAnd, you can always
    tell when spring has arrived from the wakening thud of Caucasian grenade launchers. "
  created: '2006-05-18 14:02:00'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "The Wichita group actually compared Gigi with Times, ONSCREEN?\r\n\r\nHrant,
    let's get a proposal together. Looks like someone has some time and facilities
    for research."
  created: '2006-05-18 19:19:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Let's do it.\r\nhpapazian_thatsymbol_gmail_dot_com\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-18 19:36:43'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>Looks like someone has some time and facilities for research.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    seriously think you guys should consider it. It looks like Wichita's <a href=\"http://psychology.wichita.edu/surl/\"
    target=\"new\"><strong>SURL</strong></a> would be open to viable proposals. Based
    on their index of reports/surveys they seem to have a keen interest in legibility
    studies and user screen experience."
  created: '2006-05-18 19:40:32'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'I wish there was a parallel facility studying the same issues for print.
    Is there one? '
  created: '2006-05-18 20:13:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>BTW, Carl is nothing like you.</em>\r\n\r\nyeah, he has more hair than
    I do :-)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CarlC_5886.jpg]\r\n\"Adobe Type
    Designer\""
  created: '2006-05-19 03:48:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Gee Nick, he has way more hair than I do as well :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-19 05:48:13'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: That guy has way more hair than I do. I cut all that off in 2000. Time for
    new pics?....
  created: '2006-05-19 06:40:05'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "What study do you most want to see conducted (open question for anyone)?\r\nCheers,
    Kevin"
  created: '2006-05-19 21:08:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thanks for asking - that's why I place so much hope in you.\r\n\r\nBut: more
    than what, how.\r\nProof: the letterspacing results were a dud.\r\nhttp://www.journalofvision.org/6/6/998/
    _\r\n\"Spacing changes are compensated by changes in eye movements\r\nwith no
    net change in reading speed.\" When your subjects fail to\r\nget immersed, indeed
    Nothing Matters.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-19 21:31:53'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Kevin:\r\n\r\nYes, immersive reading tasks, in real-world settings. Measure
    for comfort, speed and comprehension. Use <a href=\"http://psychology.wichita.edu/surl/usabilitynews/52/UK_font.htm\">meaningful</a>
    controls for finer granularity."
  created: '2006-05-19 22:45:15'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Hrant, I wouldn't call the Sheedy letterspacing study a dud at all. There
    is a ton of interesting information there.\r\n\r\nI'm interested in hearing thoughts
    about both the \"what\" and \"how\". What are the reading conditions you want
    to test? How will readers' comfort, speed, comprehension, or other be measured.
    What is your hypothesis for the results?\r\n\r\nAre there good studies to emulate?\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Kevin"
  created: '2006-05-19 23:11:53'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Kevin, \r\n\r\nCan I write you directly? Send me a message through my profile
    with your address. "
  created: '2006-05-19 23:53:03'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "To repeat what everyone is saying in slightly more specific terms, what I'd
    like to see tested is the relative \"comfort, speed and comprehension\" in, say,
    forty minutes' reading afforded by each of a specially constructed family of book
    typefaces, tweaked to a number of graded extents in one or more respects. Personally
    I would most like to see the influence of diverging whole-curve axes and of diverging
    interior-vs-exterior axes. There are, of course, other kinds of divergence one
    might want to look at - in character width, in optically-corrected height (vertical
    alignment with base line and/or x-height), in colour and so on - if type designers
    are to have useful information concerning the kinds and degrees of divergence
    that help, and those that just produce irrelevant spiking. \r\n\r\nInvestigation
    of normally static qualities like serif length and angle should give experimental
    bang for buck; likewise with irregularity in the broad, Founder's Caslon-style
    sense. It could be manipulated by postscript code randomly deforming outlines
    while preserving the total area of the black forms they describe.\r\n\r\nIt's
    great news, Kevin, that you're willing to seriously investigate the properties
    of high-end text type (if you are :-)): good science will be more difficult with
    immersive reading than with common-or-garden legibility - unless that's just a
    prejudice to be overturned by good science. My hunch is that seriously examining
    the tiny handful of supertypes will be much more useful than comparing Times to
    Arial yet again. I'm not sure ITC New Winchester is a supertype, but it might
    be; Electra certainly was but would need redigitising; Bembo Book is, Joanna was
    (redigitising wouldn't hurt, from the foundry not the Monotype version), and Seria,
    Octavian* and small-size Plantin deserve scrutiny too.\r\n\r\n*I got my first
    book set in Octavian today: it's extraordinary, like an inspired compromise between
    Joanna's roman and italic, though I think a whisper more width on bpdq would make
    it better still."
  created: '2006-05-20 00:50:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kevin, you could say (and on occasion I myself do actually) that <cite>any</cite>
    study contains some interesting information. In fact reading through the \"conclusion\"
    of that one it's possible to see a fair deal of confusion, but a promising kind
    of confusion. The thing is though, really, we can do so much better. Especially
    if we're paid.  :->\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nOctavian is sublime - one of my all-time
    favs.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-20 01:32:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "What I would love to see is some empirical testing that would differentiate
    between legibility and readability as defined thus:\r\n\r\n\u2018Legibility\u2019
    is based on the ease with which one letter can be told from the other. \u2018Readability\u2019
    is the ease with which the eye can absorb the message and move along the line.
    \r\n--\u2018Types of Typefaces\u2019 by J. Ben Lieberman (1967)\r\n\r\nThe Sheedy
    test is interesting because with a variation in testing, it might be able to achieve
    the differentiation. Before I explain how, just let me note that the first thing
    is just to establish experimentally the validity of the distinction: to show that
    faces that are equally good when it comes to reading a word in a short flash are
    still different in readability. Here I think the place to start is not with fine
    distinctions between text faces that are acknowledged to be excellent, but just
    to establish the difference between more and less readable faces that are equally
    legible. \r\n\r\nWhat is interesting in the Sheedy study is that readers were
    able to compensate for lower legibility and make the differently spaced words
    equally readable, as far as speed. \r\n\r\nAs you see in the Lieberman definition,
    there are two aspects in readability. One is reading speed, which should be easy
    to test. The other, which I think will give a bigger differentiation between faces,
    is on \u2018ease of absorbing the message\u2019. This I think it the comfort factor
    that others have already noted they want to see tested. Here\u2019s a suggestion
    how. \r\n\r\nThere is a certain point when reading when we get fatigued and have
    more difficulty in absorbing the message. I would suggest that in more readable
    text the fatigue point would come later than in less readable text. Thus if you
    have fairly demanding material, you could test comprehension people of a similar
    education on reading material on an unfamiliar topic. The test could be tried
    with different people at intervals, and get an idea when the factor sets in. Then
    try setting it in say 10 point Helvetica with a long measure and little leading,
    and 10 point Times New Roman (or Minion)\u2014or equalize for x-height. Then do
    the test to see whether the fatigue factor sets in later with the text face verses
    the titling face. I am assuming here that Helvetica and Times New Roman will test
    as equally legible when individual words are flashed. If my theory is right, then
    you should see a clear, repeatable, differentiation between readability and legibility.
    \ \r\n\r\nFor example, you could take the Sheedy study and do the same variation
    in spacing, and test this time not for speed, but for the fatigue factor. I think
    you may well get a variation in the fatigue factor with the different spacing
    even though people were able to compensate and read with equal speed. In other
    words, my hypothesis would be that the effort to compensate for less readable
    text is fatiguing. I should note that the fatigue is not only a matter of eye
    strain, though this may come up in some cases\u2014perhaps high contrast type
    faces with shiny paper. It is also a matter of brain fatigue, of difficulty concentrating.
    \r\n\r\nThese issues of readability, as you can see, designers of text type tend
    to be quite concerned with, and the distinction between legibility and readability
    has been around for at least eighty years, I think. I am quite confident that
    it is only a matter of designing the right kind of test to capture what many type
    sensitive people see. Once the distinction is established empirically, then you
    will, I predict, be able to say much more about good spacing, contrast, etc. But
    the first thing is to design a test, and establish it for one case. Incidentally,
    you could also test whether something like University Roman (ugh) is equally legible
    as Times New Roman. Then the fatigue factor should clearly show up in testing.
    \r\n"
  created: '2006-05-20 02:54:16'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "Are some of you arguing that a person is more likely to read War and Peace
    from beginning to end, or for that matter Catcher in the Rye, if there are improvements
    over existing type design?\r\n\r\nIf so, what are those proposed  improvements
    and what concrete examples are there, as distinct from a lot of whinging and academic
    debate?\r\n\r\nSpecifically, is there a type design that will make it more likely
    that one will finish War and Peace (or if you want an English example, The Adventures
    of Augie March) and, if it exists, which one is it?"
  created: '2006-05-20 03:18:06'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Good idea Bill - though perhaps Plantin Light could be substituted for Times
    (since PL has real serifs rather than just brackets).
  created: '2006-05-20 03:40:37'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"that the first thing is just to establish experimentally the validity of
    the distinction: to show that faces that are equally good when it comes to reading
    a word in a short flash are still different in readability.\"\r\n\r\nBill, I think
    this might be very worthwhile and could definitively establish or unseat the presumption
    of 'generalizability' or 'ecological validity' across different testing paradigms,
    which both Hrant and I are concerned about. George, a full program of research
    would seek to elicit meaningful results against the kind of manipulations you
    describe. Kevin, did you ask because you see real prospects for carrying out studies
    based on the suggestions?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-05-20 03:55:43'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "<cite>Are some of you arguing that a person is more likely to read War and
    Peace from beginning to end, or for that matter Catcher in the Rye, if there are
    improvements over existing type design?</cite>\r\nYes - or at least improvements
    over, say, Sabon Next. There are other reasons for failing to finish those two,
    of course: both are kiddies' fables. How the Russians must chuckle at our misinterpretations
    of their literature: we even take that windmill of journalistic gesticulation
    Dostoevsky seriously!\r\n\r\n<cite>If so, what are those proposed improvements
    and what concrete examples are there, as distinct from a lot of whinging and academic
    debate?</cite>\r\nWell, my suggested (and unoriginal) improvements are given earlier
    in this very thread, and I'm sure lots of people here have their own pet predictions.
    \r\n\r\n<cite>Specifically, is there a type design that will make it more likely
    that one will finish War and Peace (or if you want an Enfgish example, The Adventures
    of Augie March) and, if it exists, which one is it?</cite>\r\nThanks for providing
    an example of a long book in English. And the type you want is a decent Griffo
    revival - if only such a thing existed ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-20 04:06:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Kevin, here is another area to test, which Peter Enneson and I have been
    e-mailing about. \r\n\r\nThe scrambled letter tests refute the idea that we read
    by the external shape of words only. However, Peter has argued that while we don\u2019t
    simply read from the external outline, we do read from the whole pattern of salient
    letter characteristics in a word\u2014joins, open and closed counters, ascenders,
    etc. This is different from a process of first identifying letters--even simultaneously
    in parallel--and then going from there to identify words.   \r\n\r\nBecause we
    have evolved such a phenomenal ability to identify human faces, I find it plausible
    that at the very least we can recognize \u2018th\u2019 or \u2018oo\u2019 within
    a word and map that pattern--and perhaps even many whole words--directly to sound
    and meaning without going to the intermediate step of identifying the letters.
    \r\n\r\nThe interesting possibility here to me is that if Peter is on to something,
    mastering reading may involve a transition from letter by letter reading, to reading
    by groups of letter patterns, or whole word patterns. In other words, the mastery
    process would be not a matter of increased skill in processing already identified
    letters in a particular order, but the actual visual pattern made by the letters.
    \ \r\n\r\nThe problem is how Peter\u2019s view could be possibly tested? One idea
    I have suggested to him is that the same test could be done on children with different
    degrees of mastery of reading. One idea is to increase letter spacing to the point
    that it is disruptive to expert readers. My idea is that this would not slow down
    the beginning reader significantly, as he or she would be doing the letter identification,
    but the expert reader would be doing less letter identification, and more pattern
    recognition, and so would be slowed down significantly.  \r\n\r\nThe idea here
    is that the word as \u2018pattern of letter features\u2019 is dependent on tighter
    spacing than simple letter identification. And this test on different levels of
    mastery would reveal it. As I don\u2019t know the literature on reading, I suspect
    that this test I am suggesting may well be too crude to be a crucial test. But
    I think that using different levels of reader skill, or those with reading disabilities,
    in tests would be the best shot at seeing whether pattern recognition beyond single
    letters is an important factor in reading expertise.    \r\n"
  created: '2006-05-20 04:50:49'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "George,\r\n\r\nI'd just appreciate it if one of the designers who criticise
    current type on this site on grounds of readability, and go on at length about
    imperfections, would say what they have designed that would be better for, for
    example, a serious novel. \r\n\r\nI didn't anticipate that someone would characterise
    War and Peace as a \"kiddie's book\", but if that is what you think, that's fine.
    \ Just substitute a title by someone that you consider more adult than Tolstoy. "
  created: '2006-05-20 05:26:43'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Ha! My jibe was immature, being no more than an expression of loyalty to a
    great Tolstoian, Nabokov. But W&P really was written for the "general reader",
    and so has no artistic structure but lots of lovely morals. Anna Karenin is an
    altogether sleeker thing.
  created: '2006-05-20 06:03:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \u2018Readability\u2019 is the ease with which the eye\r\n> can absorb
    the message and move along the line.\r\n\r\nThere are at least two big problems
    with that:\r\n1) It confounds perception and cognition.\r\n2) It's too short-range.
    Moving along a line is far\r\nless important than performance in extended reading.\r\n\r\n>
    For example, you could take the Sheedy study and do the same\r\n> variation in
    spacing, and test this time not for speed, but\r\n> for the fatigue factor.\r\n\r\n1)
    Speed (over a long period) and fatigue come down to the same thing.\r\n2) Studies
    like Sheedy's will give you no insightful results because the subjects aren't
    getting truly immersed - plain and simple. Essentially, they are confined to the
    legibility sphere.\r\n\r\n> Are some of you arguing that a person is more likely
    to read War\r\n> and Peace from beginning to end, or for that matter Catcher in\r\n>
    the Rye, if there are improvements over existing type design?\r\n\r\nAs De Groot
    has wrily pointed out, when a reader is motivated it almost doesn't matter how
    unreadable things are - he will complete the reading task.* The relevance of readability
    kicks in at the threshold: where a reader might give up reading something he <cite>has</cite>
    to read (sometimes before a deadline) because of fatigue.\r\n\r\n* Although even
    in this case you could say a good designer should still feel responsible for not
    making things unnecessarily uncomfortable.\r\n\r\n> The scrambled letter tests
    refute the idea\r\n> that we read by the external shape of words only. \r\n\r\nNo
    test is required to proove something so obvious.\r\n\r\n> map that pattern\u2014and
    perhaps even many\r\n> whole words\u2014directly to sound and meaning\r\n\r\nNo
    sound.\r\nBut yes, as my TYPO article explains, we identify\r\nchunks as wholes
    that are as large as possible.\r\n\r\n> if Peter is on to something\r\n\r\nYour
    crediting is wanting.\r\n\r\n> reading may involve a transition from letter by
    letter reading,\r\n> to reading by groups of letter patterns, or whole word patterns.\r\n\r\nYes,
    and the transition from letterwise to bouma reading typically\r\nhappens at around
    age 10 (see Tinker, and Watts & Nisbett). But there\r\nis no further transition
    to whole words - that's just a subset of bouma reading.\r\n\r\n> One idea is to
    increase letter spacing to the point that it is disruptive to\r\n> expert readers.
    My idea is that this would not slow down the beginning\r\n> reader significantly\r\n\r\nAgain:
    you can devise all the smart tests you want, but if the subjects (even adults)
    are not getting fully immersed, you will get no solid data that disproves Kevin's
    model. And note that Sheedy study expanded the spacing by as much as 2 points
    - more than enough to \"disrupt expert readers\".\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nWhen I suggested
    to Kevin in Thessaloniki that varying letterspacing would give great clues into
    reading, I made sure to accompany it with a caution: he would only see variance
    in the results if he got his subjects truly immersed. Otherwise he would get the
    vacuous results that Sheedy did.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nTesting something intelligent
    is only half the key.\r\nThe other half is getting experienced readers to\r\nforget
    they're being tested.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-20 19:22:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Again: you can devise all the smart tests you want, but if the subjects
    (even adults) are not getting fully immersed, you will get no solid data that
    disproves Kevin\u2019s model.</em>\r\n\r\nSo what you really need is a measure
    of immersiveness. Without that, you risk begging the question, because you'll
    be able to say of any test that fails to disprove Kevin's model that obviously
    the subjects were not getting fully immersed.\r\n\r\nSo you need a definition
    of immersive reading that includes measurable criteria.* You need to be able to
    establish immersion independent of the results of particular tests.\r\n\r\n* Even
    a definition without measurable criteria would be useful progress, since the term
    immersive reading does not seem to feature in any of the cognitive psychology
    literature to date."
  created: '2006-05-20 21:12:00'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: How about observing each reader's response to a series of distractions, at
    first imperceptible but steadily increased, in order to asses the depth of immersion?
  created: '2006-05-20 22:05:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Your crediting is wanting.\r\n\r\nHrant, I didn't intend to ascribe the
    invention of the theory of reading by wholes to Peter. I know that it is a relative
    old theory--predating World War II at any rate--and that Bouma and Smith and others
    have contributed to it. I am not clear about what exactly you and Peter have added
    to these thinkers, and what exactly is the relationship of your and Peter's ideas.
    I do know that you corresponded early on, and that you don't fully agree now.
    I referred to Peter's ideas because I corresponded with him and felt I had a partial
    understanding of these. \r\n\r\nI will have to leave it to you two to explain
    your views and the influence of past views and your influence on one another,
    as I don't know these things myself. \r\n\r\nMy contribution above, if it is indeed
    any contribution at all, is of an idea for testing the general idea of reading
    by word patterns; it is not a contribution to the theory itself. "
  created: '2006-05-20 23:27:58'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "I\u2019m interested in hearing about the kinds of studies that people are
    interested in seeing, and am open to letting these ideas influence the directions
    I take. I am particularly interested in studies that would help people make practical
    decisions.\r\n\r\nJohn is correct that immersive reading isn\u2019t discussed
    among cognitive psychologists. I think the typical usage of immersion has little
    to do with typography or the reading process. Instead it is about how much you
    engaged with the content you were reading. Are there other definitions of immersive
    reading? George\u2019s suggestion that we could measure reader response to distractions
    implicitly suggests that readers are immersed when they are not interrupted with
    external distractions. Is this true?\r\n\r\nIn an earlier post George suggested
    a variety of interesting type manipulations, but there are devils hiding in those
    details. For instance how do you test for optically corrected height. I assume
    that optical corrections have to be treated as a system \u2013 you wouldn\u2019t
    change the height without also changing the counter-width and letterspacing? What
    size do you examine? Will people read novels or textbooks? What two (or more)
    reading materials are equal so reading times aren\u2019t determined by the difficulty
    of the content. How will comprehension be measured. While there are a variety
    of ways that psychologists have measured reading speed and comprehension, I know
    of no accepted way for measuring \u201Ccomfort\u201D. Your point is well taken
    that there are more interesting typeface comparisons than Times v. Gigi.\r\n\r\nWilliam
    suggested that comfort can be measured with Sheedy\u2019s threshold distance measure.
    I certainly do think this is an interesting measure, and Sheedy has demonstrated
    that it can successfully detect differences between fonts. I think this measure
    is interesting because it taxes the visual system and processes that must be involved
    in reading. Helvetica and Times do not measure equal either with a distance or
    time threshold measure. In Sheedy\u2019s spacing study he tested both distance
    threshold (legibility) and reading speed (readability), but not a repeated measures
    on the legibility to see how that data changes. I\u2019m a little uncomfortable
    naming this a fatigue or comfort measure because we don\u2019t know that fatigue
    comes from the processes involved in this task.*\r\n\r\n* There is some reason
    to believe that some kinds of eye fatigue are caused by subtle amount squinting
    and can be measured with the obicularius muscle. I was hoping to talk about this
    at ATypI this year, but the proposal wasn\u2019t accepted.\r\n\r\nOn the proposal
    for testing the switch in children from letter-by-letter to word reading, I\u2019m
    certain you see the problem for looking for a lack of difference between loose
    and tight letterspacing. Failing to detect a difference between two conditions
    does not mean that two conditions are equal \u2013 methodologies and statistics
    are set up to conservatively detect differences. There are no methodologies for
    detecting sameness. It would be a much stronger prediction to say that adult word
    readers will benefit from tight spacing while children letter-by-letter readers
    will benefit from loose letterspacing.\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-20 23:42:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">William suggested that comfort can be measured with Sheedy\u2019s threshold
    distance measure.\r\n\r\nI'm afraid I wasn't clear enough. My suggestion was to
    measure comfort *independently* by testing at what point comprehension decreases.
    For example, you could give a string of SAT type reading comprehension tests,
    and see how long it takes for people to get tired and their ability to answer
    correctly goes down. Once you have this for a standard layout, say in Times New
    Roman at a giving size and layout, then you could do variations and compare how
    the numbers answered correctly decline over time. Sheedy's test on spacing--and
    I just saw the abstract, so I don't know it--would just be one thing to try among
    many others. The point is having a decline in comprehension with time being a
    measure of reading comfort. This measure could be used in many tests. Is that
    clear?"
  created: '2006-05-20 23:53:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Failing to detect a difference between two conditions does not mean that
    two conditions are equal \u2013 methodologies and statistics are set up to conservatively
    detect differences.\r\n\r\nAgain, perhaps I wasn't clear. There wouldn't be a
    difference with the kids at an early learning stage--or a small difference, but
    there would be a difference with the expert adult readers. What would be significant
    is that the adults would have a big difference and the children little.\r\n\r\n>It
    would be a much stronger prediction to say that adult word readers will benefit
    from tight spacing while children letter-by-letter readers will benefit from loose
    letterspacing. \r\n\r\nWell that is a variation of what I was saying. I don't
    see why no advantage to children vs big advantage to adults isn't also a measurable
    distinction. Of course if children are advantaged at a certain point, that would
    be interesting too, but the results would be meaningful in either case. "
  created: '2006-05-20 23:59:54'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Redge,\r\n\r\nI haven't been criticising typefaces. I'm disappointed with
    the way the tests were designed. The types have their merits in appropriate use.
    But many of the tests ask irrelevant questions, or compare apples and oranges,
    or fixate on micro results. Of those typefaces I've designed or am designing,
    only one would be suitable for any book work. That's not the point though. \r\n\r\nTo
    answer Kevin: I want to test existing and new text typefaces in real-world, immersive
    reading situations to find out which ones allow fastest reading, AND least fatigue,
    AND best comprehension. Obviously it's a difficult task. One, I hope it's clear,
    that can't be accomplished without an expert typographer, and most likely also
    a type designer. \r\n\r\nIssues like disability, developmental stage, legibility,
    line spacing, line length, and other distractions need to be eliminated from such
    a study. Other variables and effects could be the subjects of other studies. There
    are so many useful, interesting topics (highway signage legibility, captioning
    quality, onscreen reading, wayfinding typefaces) I'd also like to see studied,
    that it's frustrating to me to read the latest studies that don't seem to do anything
    to even piece together the existing data into something we can use. By that I
    mean, something empirical that can be presented to the gigantic, new population
    of active type users, who are flying blind when it comes to producing functional
    documents and displays."
  created: '2006-05-21 00:05:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Kevin: <em>George\u2019s suggestion that we could measure reader response
    to distractions implicitly suggests that readers are immersed when they are not
    interrupted with external distractions. Is this true?</em>\r\n\r\nNo. I'm quite
    capable of looking at a page of a book, even having my eyes perform reading actions,
    while a) thinking about something else completely and b) still not hearing what
    my wife is saying to me. :)\r\n\r\nI agree that immersion must firstly imply immersion
    in content. I take it to mean something like complete unconsciousness of the act
    of reading, in which we are engaged only with what we are reading not with the
    processes of reading. That being the case, I suspect there are two different kinds
    of immersive reading: that in which we are also processing thoughts about the
    content, i.e. thinking about what we are reading analytically or critically, and
    that in which we are, for want of a better formulation, 'thinking the content'.
    The latter is most likely in the case of narrative texts such as novels or short
    stories with compelling storylines -- the proverbial 'page turners' --, which
    the latter is more common in non-fiction works. I suspect there is a difference
    in reading speed between the two, but I would consider both immersive in the sense
    of unconsciousness of the reading processes.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure if immersion
    is something one could reliably measure, but I think one could identify kinds
    of content that subjects are more likely to read immersively than others. Having
    subjects describe their personal reading habits and patterns would be a useful
    first step in virtually any readability test."
  created: '2006-05-21 00:08:36'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'I think immersive reading could be described by its duration as well as its
    intensity. Definitely, subjects need to think about the content, and never about
    the act of reading. If they do notice the type, that''s an indicator of low performance
    on the part of the typeface (where other variables are equal). But it has to be
    acknowledged in the study. That''s part of what I want to know about typefaces. '
  created: '2006-05-21 00:22:50'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "There is a thread in the Design Forum entitled Old Style Greek. This thread
    raises, in a concrete, practical way, the issues of legibility and readability.\r\n\r\nThe
    issues arise because the technology that governs film and video production and
    distribution has an impact on how images are made, including typographic images.
    \ The art of film/video, which governs title and end credit sequences, also has
    an impact. \r\n\r\nIn other words, in the film and video world, it is not possible
    to divorce the technological context and artistic choices from questions of legibility
    and readability.\r\n\r\nThat might be a minor matter, were it not for the pervasiveness
    of moving images. \r\n\r\nCurious to know whether anyone has a comment on this."
  created: '2006-05-21 00:34:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>There is some reason to believe that some kinds of eye fatigue are caused
    by subtle amount squinting and can be measured with the obicularius muscle. I
    was hoping to talk about this at ATypI this year, but the proposal wasn\u2019t
    accepted.</em>\r\n\r\nAlas due to some confusion in the submissions: Kevin's name
    also appeared on another proposal, and it would have been unfair to give him two
    slots, or so the programme committee thought. As it turns out, while he was a
    contributor to the research in the second proposed presentation, he was not going
    to be presenting it personally. If the proposals had been otherwise identified,
    I suspect Kevin's proposal would have been accepted. Unfortunately, we found out
    about the confusion too late to change things, as all the speakers had been notified."
  created: '2006-05-21 00:40:07'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Redge, most of the reading we do in film and video consists of reading short
    bursts of text, often just a few words, often in the context of moving background
    visuals that also require our attention. This is a different kind of reading from
    the sort of thing we have been discussing here. It probably deserves its own thread.
  children:
  - author:
      name: redge
    body: "John Hudson wrote:\r\n\"It probably deserves its own thread.\"\r\n\r\nYes,
      it would be interesting to see that discussion. Maybe it will emerge from the
      Greek old style thread.\r\n\r\n\"This is a different kind of reading from the
      sort of thing we have been discussing here.\"\r\n\r\nAssuming that that is true,
      and I am not sure of that, maybe the role of context, technological and artistic,
      is analogous.  In any event, the issue, as it relates from everything to film
      to television to video games and the internet, is important. \r\n\r\nBut maybe
      I'm in for an education. So far, in this thread, I have been told that I am
      obviously Anglo (half wrong), that this is an ancestral defect resulting in
      an \"Anglo\" sense of humour, apparently a problem (well, I will admit that
      Saroyan and  Monty Python or, to take a more contemporary example, Little Britain,
      portray the world differently), and that War and Peace is a \"kiddie's novel\"
      with \"no artistic structure\", written for the \"general reader\" (I think
      that's me).  Accepting, for the moment, that the people who run and participate
      in this forum apparently think that attacks based on perceived ethnicity are
      acceptable, I am ready for anything. The conclusions that I draw are, of course,
      a different matter :)"
    created: '2006-05-21 00:53:29'
  created: '2006-05-21 00:44:29'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "As John points out, one can't, from responses to distractions alone, distinguish
    between (some kind of) immersion in the content of the text and immersion in one's
    own thoughts. But testing for comprehension of the text as well should allow that
    distinction, if only so unreliably as to require a large sample for decent results.
    That doesn't answer the question of whether immersive reading is that kind of
    reading that reduces response to distraction. This guess is informed only by my
    own experience, and since introspection into absorption must terminate that very
    absorption, we may need a phenomenologist on the case :-)\r\n\r\nIncidentally,
    Peter, I have now read some Merleau-Ponty - The Visible and the Invisible - but
    am unable to judge at any point whether he's right or wrong. I also don't know
    who to blame for that. "
  created: '2006-05-21 00:44:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Assuming that that is true, and I am not sure of that...</em>\r\n\r\nActually,
    I'm not sure of it either. Perhaps I could have better expressed the thought as
    'different from the kind of reading we are assuming the existence of here'. :)\r\n\r\nHrant
    insists on something that he calls immersive reading as being different from something
    he has called contemplative reading, and his criticism of the results of most
    reading science is that he doesn't believe it has tested immersive reading. Now
    I'm quite prepared to believe that we read at different speeds and with different
    qualities of comprehension based on a whole range of factors -- of which quality
    of the type design and typography is certainly one --, and that both speed and
    comprehension are likely to be good when we are immersed in a text in the way
    that I described above. I'm not convinced though that there is a categorical difference
    between immersed reading and non-immersed reading, i.e. that our eyes and our
    minds are doing something different in these two states, which is what Hrant seems
    to be suggesting. It is a notion that raises some awkward questions. Is there,
    for instance, an in-between state? Is the transition from non-immersive to immersive
    reading sudden or gradual? Is a categorical difference necessary to explain the
    quantitative variations, or can they be explained as the same activity being performed
    more or less well, more or less efficiently?"
  created: '2006-05-22 01:06:01'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Perhaps Kevin could tell us how the idea of immersive reading sounds to psychologists
    given what they know about the workings of eye and brain?\r\n\r\n<cite>I assume
    that optical corrections have to be treated as a system \u2013 you wouldn\u2019t
    change the height without also changing the counter-width and letterspacing?</cite>\r\nOf
    course it would be best to limit variables, and I think one can. Say one wants
    to lower the tops of the bowls of b and d slightly below the top of o, and raise
    the bottoms of the bowls of p and q slightly above the bottom of o: it would be
    the lesser evil not to simultaneously alter bpdq's counter-width, because relative
    character widths are probably more important to a type than either counter-shape
    or relative vertical alignment, and because, since letter-spacing corresponds
    to counter-width more than to counter-area, there would be little damage to the
    spacing so long as counter and therefore character widths were not altered.\r\n\r\n<cite>What
    size do you examine?</cite>\r\nThe size of the type is less important than the
    size of the x-height; I think an x-height of about 6.5 pt would be about right
    for maximum comfort in people with normal vision.\r\n\r\n<cite>Will people read
    novels or textbooks?</cite>\r\nNovels, I reckon, of the kind they read for easy
    pleasure: you might consider giving each person a passage by an author he's enjoyed
    in the past but from a novel he's not yet read. Perhaps that's ridiculously messy,
    but I worry that giving everyone the same text would be a spurious standardisation
    unless you're sure that their interests and reading experience in the particular
    area were also adequately standardised."
  created: '2006-05-22 02:53:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The size of the type is less important than the size of the x-height;
    I think an x-height of about 6.5 pt would be about right for maximum comfort in
    people with normal vision.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, I would second that. Especially in
    comparative tests of different typefaces, x-height should be the constant. Then
    variables such as cap height, ascender height, descender depth, stem weight, etc.
    should be expressed as ratios to the x-height. Given the almost complete meaninglessness
    of nominal point sizes in determining visual size, I'm often frustrated that reading
    researchers generally reference point size, especially when comparing types. For
    Latin and other European scripts, the x-height provides the best constant, since
    it contributes so much to the visual size of the type in normal text."
  created: '2006-05-22 03:19:20'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Sorry, my mental arithmetic wobbled: a 5 or 5.25 pt x-height would be about
    right. With x-height as 4 units, ascender as 3 and descender as 2*, a 5 pt x-height
    gives a body size of 11.25 pt, a 5.25 pt x-height a body size of 11.8125 pt.\r\n\r\n*These
    proportions are arguable, but in the right ballpark for extended reading."
  created: '2006-05-22 03:36:43'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I\u2019m interested in hearing about the kinds of studies that people are
    interested in seeing,\"\r\n\r\n I've tried to suggest in numerous ways, ways to
    broaden the selections for users. Studies like we are seeing are what again? Not
    because the methods, materials or subjects are wrong, but rather as I've said
    because: a. Reading is disturbed by testing, if the test itself is not a disturbance,
    and b. the readers, scripts, documents and environments are \"to the horizon\"
    in all directions in the \"Windows\" market. What can you prove, e.g. by testing
    something users don't normally do, like looking at one letter? How can you test
    how well they read two different fonts in two different texts, since the same
    text twice is not a test, and the same font with two texts is useless... :)\r\n\r\nHere's
    a plan.\r\n\r\n1. Software first! develop a screen font tuner/recorder.\r\n    a.
    works on all scripts.\r\n\r\n    b. allows rendering options for \r\n            i.
    ClassicType (aliased), \r\n            ii. CraftType (integer spaced g.s.)\r\n
    \           iii. CrapType (sub-pixel positioned g.s.)\r\n            iv. ClearType
    (your baby)\r\n            v. CanType (none rendering, like bitmaps or outline
    straight to bitmaps)\r\n\r\n    c. the user should be able to select any installed
    font (though all fonts should show an \"optimal renderer\" icon).\r\n\r\n    d.
    the user should be able to select any point size in 1 point increments, and specify
    dow to tenths is the want (though all fonts should show an \"optimal size\" value).\r\n\r\n
    \   e. one key stroke in any app. should activate the tuner and allow the user
    to change the font, the size and/or rendering of any highlighted and all similar
    text, or change all text in the cursor location.\r\n\r\n2. record! the other part
    of the Software first!\r\n    a. use millions of subjects, with at least their
    ages as data.\r\n\r\n    b. using a full range of options on their own machines
    in their own environments, collect their choices over any length of time to see
    what they see as best for themselves, by themselves. (Choices you can gather this
    way, are: script, font, size, renderer, age, application, document (if public),
    length of text, time of day, time from last size change, time from last font change,
    and number of font changes since leaving default, e.g.)\r\n\r\n    c. Publish
    results in a database available to all users and designers.\r\n\r\n    d. eventually,
    release the tuner to all users as their own personal \"font caddie\" allowing
    them to save and tune all their favorite fonts and/or settings from application
    to application, document to document, device to device, etc., without the diversely
    cumbersome, while still limited options available today. Give it away for free.\r\n\r\n3.
    Based on a study of this data, research particular market and client needs, and
    then, design fonts.\r\n\r\n4. Support the new w3c proposal for linkable fonts.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-22 13:46:31'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Can one read immersively from a screen? Surely any test should be from printed
    material. I was wondering about the test conditions though, as I understand it,
    stress reduces the amount of parafoveal vision available.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-05-22 18:06:45'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Kevin, I wonder if the claim that immersive reading isn't discussed among
    cognitive psychologists is accurate.\r\n\r\nTo my mind Hrant's 'immersive' reading
    might be characterized as 'passage' reading of extended text by experienced, motivated
    readers, when the intentional object of the engagement is sense-following.\r\n\r\nMany
    theorists, including Hrant and you and I, make all kinds of claims about the passage
    reading of extended text by experienced motivated readers. So if 'immersive' reading
    can mean something like what I think it means in Hrant's usage, I think it is
    what is most discussed.\r\n\r\nBut if by immersion we mean: level of engagement
    with the argument in a discourse, or level of immersion in the fictional world
    of a narrative, you and John are probably right in saying it is not much discussed
    or tracked in tests.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-05-22 21:16:57'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant, if bouma reading is learned early, becomes natural, and is robust,
    wouldn't it be the first line of attack in any task where the stimulus material
    consists of words, even where artificial or threshold conditions prevail, and
    artificial tasks are imposed?\r\n\r\nWhat I would most like to see is a team effort
    at 1) disentangling (through clarification and the development of collectively
    devised* criterial tests) the issues surrounding divergant opinions, such as Hrant's,
    Kevin's and my own, about how reading works and 2) addressing (by involving type
    designers and typographers in the design** and execution of tests) the issues
    surrounding performance and usability testing as raised by, for example Ole Lund,
    and developing better ways to provide meaningful data.\r\n\r\n* to be meaningful
    the architects of opposing models must agree they might be criterial, or at least
    are able to extend our knowledge.\r\n\r\n** this might include design-involvement
    manipulating stimulus material and stimulus material paramets.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-05-22 22:05:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>involving type designers and typographers in the design** and execution
    of test</em>\r\n\r\nOr scientists who are better informed about typography, so
    we don't end up with naive generalizations such as \"10/13 is the best size\"
    masquerading as scientifically meaningful insight.\r\n\r\n<em>immersive reading
    isn\u2019t discussed among cognitive psychologists</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps because
    it can't be measured? The term has significant meaning for typographers, but that's
    not to say that what we understand by it has a physiological, as opposed to a
    cultural, reality."
  created: '2006-05-22 22:59:23'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "William: \u201CI don\u2019t see why no advantage to children vs big advantage
    to adults isn\u2019t also a measurable distinction.\u201D\r\n\r\nThe problem with
    is that you can\u2019t measure no advantage. Lots of studies fail to detect real
    differences because of poor methodologies or poorly conducted studies. Psychologists
    joke about publishing these studies in the Journal of Null Results (psychologists
    are not a funny bunch). Note that psychologists would call these two reading speeds
    the same: 20 people reading 50 pages in an hour with a range of 40 minutes to
    80 minutes and 20 different people reading 50 pages in an 70 minutes with a range
    of 40 minutes to 100 minutes. That might be a large real difference, but if the
    variances are large, psychologists are hesitant to declare a difference.\r\n\r\nKevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-23 01:26:40'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "I agree with John\u2019s points on immersive reading. It would be quite surprising
    to find that we have two different reading mechanisms. It\u2019s certainly true
    that we will be more engaged in materials that we find interesting, and we will
    likely read those materials. But I\u2019ve never seen any evidence that reading
    processes dramatically change, only speed up or slow down. In addition it interest
    in the content, there are many variables that can speed up or slow reading. For
    instance a sentence in active voice is read faster than a sentence in passive
    voice. High frequency words are recognized faster than low frequency words. Tinker
    & Patterson have shown that most typographic variables have an effect on reading
    speed, and that most recommended values (e.g. Bringhurst recommendations) result
    in faster reading speeds.\r\n\r\nPeter, I don\u2019t think that Hrant uses immersive
    reading to mean passage readers by experienced, motivated readers.\r\n\r\nKevin"
  created: '2006-05-23 01:28:21'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Peter: \u201Cinvolving type designers and typographers in the design** and
    execution of test\u201D\r\n\r\nI couldn\u2019t agree with this more. I spend a
    lot of time evangelizing to psychologists about the importance of typography in
    reading, and want to see a closer collaboration between two communities that should
    be natural partners. I'll do whatever I can to help this to happen.\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-23 01:30:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Lots of studies fail to detect real differences because of poor methodologies
    or poorly conducted studies.\r\n\r\nHowever, wouldn't the (hypothesized) existence
    of a big difference for adults validate that the methodology does indeed show
    potential differences? And thus the lack of difference for the children would
    show something real? I don't see why a null result should be presumed invalid
    when you have validated the method independently.\r\n\r\nIn any case, if you must
    have differences for the children, you could certainly increase the spacing to
    the point where it would negatively affect children learning to read. Then you
    could compare the spacing needed to slow down the children with that needed to
    slow down the expert reader significantly. \r\n\r\nMy point is, such a test of
    different levels of reading skill would be worth doing, if it is indeed indicative
    of some kind of direct mapping of multi-letter groups or words to meanings. To
    me the first question is whether the results, if they did show differences, would
    be indicative of an important cognitive process going on, even if it does require
    further research to pinpoint it. It seems to me that it would indicate something
    interesting, and so would be worth doing. What do you think?  \r\n\r\nPS. On null
    results. The Michelson-Moreley experiment was a null result and was extremely
    important in the history of physics. The experiment of Galileo dropping heavier
    and lighter balls off the leaning Tower of Pisa, and having them land at nearly
    the same time was also a null result. (That the actual story may be false is beside
    the point here.) \r\n\r\nFrom the point of view of scientific method in other
    fields, this prejudice against null results is not well founded. If the experiment
    is well designed and executed, the result will be significant even with a null
    result, as Galileo and Michelson-Morley indicate.   "
  created: '2006-05-23 02:24:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I look forward to your response on the readability issue. I think the main
    problem with reading research from a point of view of typography is--from what
    I hear--is that at least as far as print goes it hasn't had good measures to test
    for what typographers instinctively regard as important.  \r\n\r\nDoes differences
    in the rate decline of comprehension with time seem to you like an useful and
    valid measure of reading comfort? If the answer is 'yes', then it should be possible
    to compare readability and legibility (quick discrimination of letters and words)
    of various typefaces and layouts. And there would be hope of getting better detection
    of the differences typographers see. And of course if they are indeed real, which
    I do think, then this could help guide tyopgraphy for both screen and print readers."
  created: '2006-05-23 02:32:07'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I\u2019ll do whatever I can to help this to happen.\"\r\n\r\nThen respond;)
    why do experiments need to corner the market into a, or a pair of rendering solutions?
    Why can't point size be an adjustment readers can make with ease? Why can't we
    agree that there are many, many different ways people compose different kinds
    of documents, and many, many different ways people read those many documents and
    so, there need to be many ways to display the amny fonts?\r\n\r\nOr, do we want
    to keep poking pin-hole-size experiments in a huge sky and calling composition
    and reading \"understood\"? What is the motivation? :)"
  created: '2006-05-23 13:04:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, your suggestions for gathering data from user settings seem to assume
    a direct correlation between user preference and best readability. What grounds
    are there for such an assumption?\r\n\r\nSure, on the one hand people will make
    selections that they are able to read, but the range of what people can read is
    as immense as your huge sky, and finding out what people can read, or even what
    they think they can read well, isn't of any value -- in the context of research
    on legibility/readability, which is what is being discussed here -- unless you
    can also test how well they actually read it.\r\n\r\n<em>3. Based on a study of
    this data, research particular market and client needs, and then, design fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    what you describe is a big market research project for font developers. I'm sure
    it would be fascinating and useful for the type business, but it wouldn't tell
    us anything about readability.\r\n\r\n[Aside:\r\n\r\n<em>4. Support the new w3c
    proposal for linkable fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nThere is no W3C proposal for linkable
    fonts. There is a proposal from some individuals, who do not represent the W3C,
    to support web typography by directly serving <em>freeware</em> TTFs from servers.
    I fail to see how this is a good idea or how it solves any of the issues that
    have prevented widespread decent web typography.]"
  created: '2006-05-23 15:44:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"David, your suggestions for gathering data from user settings seem to assume
    a direct correlation between user preference and best readability. What grounds
    are there for such an assumption?\"\r\n\r\nIf an environment where all the major
    options (renderer, size, font et al) were available and user preferences were
    recorded, then what other ground would be closer to reality? Is listening to the
    opinions of someone who \"reads\" at 145 dpi closer to reality? Is measuring the
    recognizability of individual letters closer? or is measuring two unequally prepared
    sample fonts closer to reality?\r\n\r\n\"and finding out what people can read,
    or even what they think they can read well, isn\u2019t of any value\"\r\n\r\nYou've
    got \"grounds for such an assumption\" :) I mean really, what people think they
    can read well is NOT what they read well? Hmmm.\r\n\r\n\"unless you can also test
    how well they actually read it.\"\r\n\r\nWhich you can't, and NO ONE has said
    they actually can, here or anywhere. Have they?\r\n\r\n4. Support the new w3c
    proposal for linkable fonts even if you think it's just a bunch of freeware fonts
    involved.\r\n\r\n\"I fail to see how this is a good idea or how it solves any
    of the issues that have prevented widespread decent web typography\" \r\n\r\nRead
    the threads John, we need the font environment on the web that has improvements
    in numerous typographic directions. One of them, is that we need font selection
    to proceed beyond what MS can afford to distribute for free without fuss or muss.\r\n\r\n\"Yes,
    what you describe is a big market research project for font developers.\"\r\n\r\n:)
    no, what I describe is a responsible response to what Kevin asked. What Kevin
    asked, is how best to test the best way to serve 330 million users of a wide range
    of hardware, fonts, documents and scripts for the 1,000 type designers who must
    try to serve them. \r\n\r\nAnd that is what I gave him. \r\n"
  created: '2006-05-23 17:30:05'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "William, I certainly think that the hypothesis that there is a qualitative
    difference between novice readers and experienced readers is interesting and worth
    studying. I don\u2019t expect to find a qualitative difference* - I think the
    experience that comes with many thousands of reading hours improves the efficiency
    of the reading process in place in novice readers. But scientific progress comes
    with testing differences between competing hypothesis.\r\n\r\n* The first 20 or
    so words that children learn are recognized by arbitrary, non-letter cues. By
    novice readers I mean after this stage when children are making letter to sound
    correspondences.\r\n\r\nMy point about null findings is that it\u2019s an exceptional
    case when a null finding is meaningful. Much like iterating on a type design,
    psychologists iterate on study design in order to find statistically reliable
    results. First studies (frequently called pilot studies) usually find a null result
    because it takes time to figure out how to control the variation. For a study
    to find a reliable difference, the statistics need to say we are confident to
    95% probability that the difference was not caused by chance. Everything else
    is a null finding.\r\n\r\nKevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-23 18:26:14'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "William: \u201CDoes differences in the rate decline of comprehension with
    time seem to you like an useful and valid measure of reading comfort?\u201D\r\n\r\nIt
    might work, it\u2019s hard to predict. It would work well if the most important
    factor driving fatigue onset is the typographic variable being study. If typography
    is a partial cause of fatigue but interest in the content is the first order factor,
    there might be too much variance.\r\n\r\nI think discovering these new methods
    is one of the key challenges facing the study of typographic variables. Everyone
    is interested in testing nebulous factors like invitingness, comfort, ease, and
    immersion without defining what these terms mean in a way that they can be measured.
    Most of the work that I\u2019ve been doing over the last three years is centered
    around developing new measures for measuring these kinds of qualities. I\u2019m
    hopeful that we\u2019ll be able do develop several interesting measures that get
    at qualities that we call comfort and immersion. I talked about two of these measures
    at ATypI last year: one based on mood and cognitive performance, and another based
    on direct measurements of mental effort (brain imaging). The other area we\u2019re
    investigating is discovering the muscles associated with eye fatigue.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ll
    also mention that traditional measures of reading speed and comprehension also
    have their place. I think the Times v. Gigi study discussed here is methodologically
    sound. It successfully demonstrates that people read Times faster than Gigi. While
    this may have little practical or theoretical surprise, it shows that this method
    was able to detect that something about Times allows people to read it faster.\r\n\r\nKevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-23 18:58:12'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Kevin: \u201CI spend a lot of time evangelizing to psychologists about the
    importance of typography in reading, and want to see a closer collaboration between
    two communities that should be natural partners. I\u2019ll do whatever I can to
    help this to happen.\u201D\r\n\r\nDavid: \u201CWhat Kevin asked, is how best to
    test the best way to serve 330 million users of a wide range of hardware, fonts,
    documents and scripts for the 1,000 type designers who must try to serve them.\u201D\r\n\r\nDavid,
    your laundry list of tasks for me to accomplish is not the idea of collaboration
    I had in mind.\r\n\r\nKevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-23 19:59:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">scientific progress comes with testing differences between competing hypothesis.\r\n\r\nI
    certainly agree--in accord with my late teacher Popper. The suggestion about novice
    vs expert readers is designed to test such a difference. I would expect that there
    would be a difference between novice and expert readers on how they react to disrupted
    spacing. This would be a prediction of the 'word pattern' processing view, which
    Peter and Hrant have been advocating. I am thinking that a null difference would
    be predicted by the parallel view. Am I right?\r\n\r\nI don't understand what
    you wrote about novice vs expert readers--I think there is a typo in what you
    wrote. Could you explain?\r\n\r\nI'm delighted that you are looking for good measures;
    good luck!\r\n\r\nMy suggestion about using fatigue (as decline in comprehension)
    as a measure is based on my own experience. To me one the the main things about
    screen reading as opposed to book is that I don't want to read long passages.
    Also a letter sized paper filled with Helvetica or Arial and little leading gives
    me the same feeling--I have to plough through it with effort, even though individual
    words are perfectly legible. \r\n\r\nThe idea of eye strain as a measure sounds
    excellent. But I would expect that it might be more for issues like excessive
    contrast in the typeface, small size, or shiny paper. It might also be a factor
    in screen vs print, which would be important if you could identify what is the
    eye-strain causing factor in the screen. \r\n\r\nHowever, I suspect that for an
    issue like Helvetica vs Times New Roman that the decline in comprehension will
    be more significant than eye strain or even reading speed. \r\n\r\nThe Gigi vs
    Times is sound, I agree. We have to have measures that at least discriminate between
    obvious cases. But new measures, other than raw speed of short passages, are I
    think needed to distinguish more subtle but important differences. \r\n\r\nThe
    issue of interest is no doubt extremely important to fatigue. However, I would
    think that it would be easy to control for. For example, recent SAT tests would
    be equally boring or interesting for students, I would think. \r\n\r\nI don't
    know that decline in comprehension is an important factor, of course. But my 'type
    aware' experience as a reader tells me that it has a good chance of being an important
    measure.  "
  created: '2006-05-23 20:37:08'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Kevin, when testing print reading, could you make sure that subjects are given
    quarto books with real if glued spines rather than A4? The object should provide
    the right triggers for extended reading.
  created: '2006-05-23 20:40:33'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Kevin\" \"I am particularly interested in studies that would help people
    make practical decisions.\"\r\n\r\nI gave you a path to the most effective way
    to do what you claimed you wanted to do, \"help people make practical decisions.\"
    What more practical way is there than to sit them down at their own machines,
    in their own reading environments, with their own documents, and record their
    choices as they practice reading? Really, what?\r\n\r\nJohn: \"finding out what
    people can read, or even what they think they can read well, isn\u2019t of any
    value\"\r\n\r\nWhat basis do you have for this statement, John. Answer the question. "
  created: '2006-05-25 12:02:32'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Research should be aimed at what people read <em>best</em>. While reading
    at machines might be easier*, the variables might render any results useless,
    even if one had a large enough sample of readers who are willing to practice reading,
    the average wouldn't necessarily produce the best. Besides which I don't believe
    that immersive reading is best tested on a screen, I, for one, find reading on
    screen much more fatiguing than a book.\r\n\r\n*for a tester\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-05-25 13:24:26'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Research should be aimed at what people read best.[...] the average wouldn\u2019t
    necessarily produce the best.\"\r\n\r\nWho's looking for average? I'm looking
    for Wide Choice. Do you understand? I don't think any study, properly designed,
    vetted and performed, can prove that one rendering method fit all users, scripts,
    hardware, fonts and documents. I don't even think two methods are enough.\r\n\r\n\"Besides
    which I don\u2019t believe that immersive reading is best tested on a screen,
    I, for one, find reading on screen much more fatiguing than a book.\"\r\n\r\nYou
    for one are right! I've pointed out that establishment of a reader's aptitude
    for reading print should precede any study of their reading online. I've pointed
    out that immersive reading online is but a small part of the reading being done
    there, and a shrinking part at that. But we are talking about reading online.
    And I am talking about users deciding what to read in Their Documents, on Their
    Equipment, with a wide choice of options for fonts, sizes and rendering techniques.
    \r\n\r\nI thought, we were trying to save trees here. If one is actually trying
    to save trees by getting more people to read online, send a good group of engineers
    off to make it possible for a whole world of users to find their comfort spot.
    \ Seems far more likely to truly accomplish the goal than making the user assume
    some one else's chair, in some foreign space and... Actually, those are the nicest
    parts of the studies I've read so far, from there the choices users have are so
    limited it's not really possible to imagine any sentient being recognizing them
    as useful.\r\n\r\nWhat   do   they   do   when  they   get   home,  or  back  to
    \ the  office?!"
  created: '2006-05-25 15:17:19'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Apologies, I didn't realise that this thread was about reading on screen,
    I'm not aware of  environmental impact studies on the benefits of reading screen
    as opposed to print I would have thought that each had their merits in terms of
    power used to create, use, recycle, sustainability etc.\r\nI don't want to be
    Big Brotherish but are readers capable of choosing for themselves or would they
    benefit from being offered a selection of rendering options/fonts/layouts, this
    might seem like not appreciating that readers are capable of making a choice but
    default settings will probably make up a significant part of the results, furthermore
    comprehension has got to be a part of the test surely?\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-05-25 17:33:48'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "David, \r\n\r\nConsider that in testing environments, the questions being
    asked are not usually as sweeping as those you pose. Typically the questions are
    more manageable, due to the difficulty in establishing definitions, parameters,
    and controls. \"these things must be done delicately\". Also, consider that Kevin
    has offered his assistance in this area, where no one else is even aware of our
    presence. Don't beat him up because he doesn't \"get\" your monumental proposals.
    You do have a very cryptic and glib writing style, even as I can see you are asking
    very incisive questions. Call him on the phone and discuss. Kevin offers us a
    terrific opportunity to communicate meaningful ideas about typography and reading
    to those who are poised to do research about them.\r\n\r\n Conversely, I do suggest
    that Kevin and other researchers really try to hear and interpret questions such
    as David is asking, in order to design tests and projects that try earnestly and
    intelligently to answer them. I would prefer that testing make greater reaches
    with less predictable results, because, as it should be apparent, few of us feel
    we have the time to individually test micro elements of reading and type use,
    if those tests are not coordinated to fit into a larger inquiry. When new tests
    come out, I often feel they are not intended to build on, or add anything to,
    existing studies, and I suspect it's because those conducting the tests are not
    focused on related questions. If a larger, overarching goal (such as David proposes)
    were used to structure individual tests (which researchers can reasonably hope
    to perform), I suspect we'd all be more intrigued and satisfied with the results. "
  created: '2006-05-25 17:55:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I didn\u2019t realise that this thread was about reading on screen\r\n\r\nThere
    has been discussion of both screen and print on the thread, and the initial posting
    doesn't specify which medium. "
  created: '2006-05-25 17:56:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "John: '\u201Cfinding out what people can read, or even what they think they
    can read well, isn\u2019t of any value'\r\n\r\nDavid: 'What basis do you have
    for this statement, John. Answer the question.'\r\n\r\nAlmost all of the physiological
    and cognitive activities involved in reading are unconscious acts. We perform
    them without conscious experience of the performance: we are not conscious of
    our saccadic eye movement, we are not conscious of the mechanism by which we recognise
    words, we are not conscious of how our brains put it all together. Instead, we
    have an experience of reading that is an involvement with the text (which is well
    and good). At best, we can extrapolate from our reading experience to a hypothesis
    about the quality of the reading performance, but this is really guesswork. If
    we enjoyed reading something, and it seemed to be quite effortless and to pass
    quickly, we can hypothesise that we were reading well, i.e. with a good correlation
    of speed and comprehension (two measurable and testable criteria). But what we
    have is an hypothesis, not scientific knowledge, and when you have an hypothesis
    you should try to find a way of testing it. So this is why I say that finding
    out what people think they read well isn't of any value in determining what they
    actually read well, because only measurement of speed and comprehension can offer
    a reliable indicator of the latter. And we know that our conscious experience
    of reading is misleading about the mechanism of reading, because for centuries
    before Laval discovered saccades by measuring eye movement people assumed, based
    on the experience of reading, that the eye flowed along the line, and most people
    who have never heard of saccades still believe something like this because it
    is in accord with their conscious experience of reading. Just as we cannot accurately
    determine the mechanism of reading from our experience of reading, but must measure
    eye movement and consruct tests to try to determine how we recognise words, so
    I believe we cannot accurately determine what we read well except by similar efforts
    at measurement. Otherwise we're just guessing and making assumptions."
  created: '2006-05-26 05:56:15'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John, John. \"Almost all of the physiological and cognitive activities involved
    in reading are unconscious acts. We perform them without conscious experience
    of the performance: we are not conscious of our saccadic eye movement. . . (and
    etc.).\r\n\r\nAnd? what on earth makes you think you can take people into a lab,
    give them limited and incomplete options, know nothing about their native environment,
    background or reading skills, and get a more accurate (not be confused with korrect),
    result versus the comfort and security of their own computer with hundreds of
    choices, and...unlimited time to make those choices, aka, real life?\r\n\r\n\"Otherwise
    we\u2019re just guessing and making assumptions.\" :) I know! Your argument is
    that you can, by creating the perfect study, (no free will involved), determine
    precisely what all 330 million users will want? What is the basis for this assumption?\r\n\r\nSomeone
    went to a mall and asked people to make a choice between aliased and anti-aliased
    ITALIC screen type, according to your rock hard opinion you'd promptly toss out
    the result, right? Not here, this CT-Only \"hypothesis\" was launched on the strength
    of just such a study. Did you support that? Did you believe that? Did you speak
    according to your beliefs then? John, you're Hip, you draw good \"o\"s and you
    probably can crit with the best of them, but that does not mean you need to be
    a hypocrite. \r\n\r\nI make text faces :) I make them good by listening, looking,
    and reading. I have a larger audience of immersive readers than you do, (maybe,
    more than even mighty MS :). In the name of oxygen production I'm begging you
    to destroy my market. But I'm sure, if you do destroy the whole world's screen
    fonts options first, it'll sadly ensure we have the time and income here to fix
    it.\r\n\r\nAnd support the linking of fonts the w3c is asking about. :)"
  created: '2006-05-26 13:00:10'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I recently tested a number of typefaces for legibility for use in a signage
    system for a transit agency. The method I used was to digitaly blur layouts of
    typical signs then get people to try and read the signs and evaluate their ablity
    to distiguish individual letters and (more subjectively) word shapes with a simple
    scoring system. \r\n\r\nBasically, what I found concures with the list at the
    start of the thread, except for the extended width, which becomes a practical
    issue in signage, where you may have to sacrifice letter height to accomodate
    added length. The best typeface among the ones tested was TransitFont which is
    a little on the compact side. At the same letter height TransitFont was slightly
    better than APHont and Tiresias which were both designed specifically to be highly
    legible by the American Printing House for the Blind and the Royal National Institute
    For the Blind in Briton.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-26 13:49:57'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: 'Russell: Road / performance testing, or testing of affordances under threshold
    conditions (low foreground / background contrast, blur, generation loss, extremes
    of size, tight durational constraints, unfamiliar location names in a non-native
    language) for <em>specific</em> contexts of use, stimulus sets and formatting
    parameters is a very useful exercise, especially when the studies are comparative.
    The question is: are results of these task- or case-, condition-, and parameter-specific
    tests directly generalizable to all conditions of typographic use such that universally
    applicable, qualitatively specific and quantitatively precise, categorical statements
    (about serifs, the relative sizes of ascenders and descenders, interletter and
    interline spacing, monocular versus binocular forms), valid across all conditions
    and tasks, can be made.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]'
  children:
  - author:
      name: russellm
      picture: 111614
    body: "First, I am aware of the ClearviewHwy testing. \r\n\r\nIt all started when
      I hired someone to critique our signage and he had some very severe comments
      about our use of Helvetica. As a commuter rail service most of our passengers
      are accessing the system before sun-up and after sun set for much of the year,
      and in all sorts of weather. And always before they have had enough coffee.
      :0) However, most passengers only need to figure out where they are going once,
      all be it, often while hurrying to catch a train in the dark  before they are
      fully awake.\r\n\r\nWe had some pretty restrictive budget constraints, so we
      had to figure out how to come to a relatively objective decision in house. the
      testing it's self was very rudimentary and relied heavily on existing research.\r\n\r\nI
      did request supporting data and discussed my methodology with the designers
      of all the typefaces we tested - (except CleaviewHyw, simply because there is
      so much data readily available about their research.) "
    created: '2006-05-27 00:56:41'
  created: '2006-05-26 21:19:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Russell, are you aware of the <a href="http://clearviewhwy.com/ResearchAndDesign/">testing
    for Clearview Highway font</a>? This seems to be the most extensive testing on
    legibility for highway signs. '
  created: '2006-05-26 21:34:31'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"It would be quite surprising to find that we have two different reading
    mechanisms.\"\r\n\r\nKevin wouldn't a perceptual psychologist be inclined to think
    that the deliberative laborious, perhaps serial, decipherment or 'word reconstruction'
    based on a 'synthetic combination of letter elements' ('cues corresponding to
    sounds') typical of begining readers, might entail a different perceptual processing
    mechanism at the neurological receptive field behavioural level than does the
    rapid automatic probability summation of an entire packet of stimulus elements
    whose aggregate identity the visual system has learned?\r\n\r\nAt the very least
    the eye-movement statistics must be radically different.\r\n\r\nNeurobiologists
    are now begining to chart the changing roles of the different cortical regions
    involved in reading as a result of learning. \r\n\r\nAdaptive systems theorists
    like Steven Grossberg, stress \"how perilous it is to directly translate the distinctions
    of lay language into the definition of an underlying psychological [or neurobiological]
    process [like 'unitization' (of component structures into a gestalt)]\" (my additions
    in square brackets)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-05-26 22:16:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: 'Your argument is that you can, by creating the perfect study, (no
    free will involved), determine precisely what all 330 million users will want?'\r\n\r\nNo,
    that is very much not my argument. The point I am making is that what 330 million
    users <em>want</em> isn't necessarily what they will read best in terms of speed
    and accuracy. My point is that what people <em>want</em> shouldn't be assumed
    to be equivalent to what they read best. My point is that people do not know what
    they read best, any more than they know how they read.\r\n\r\nI've heard people
    raving about how much they love the type rendering in Mac Quartz, because they
    like the way it <em>looks.</em> This is the sort of basis on which people make
    preference choices about text on screen. People don't sit down and time their
    reading in different rendering systems. They don't have friends test their retension
    and comprehension after they finish reading something.\r\n\r\nI happen to think
    that the experience of reading, understood as something distinct from the mechanics
    of reading, is very important, and making choices about what fonts to use and
    what rendering systems we prefer based on that experience is totally valid. What
    I'm saying is that if one is interested in understanding the mechanics of reading
    and being able to compare performance in reading, then the kind of preference
    choices that people make isn't a reliable indicator of anything.\r\n\r\nA metaphor:
    there are lots of foods that I like to eat. I know that I like to eat them because
    I enjoy the experience of tasting them. The fact that I like to eat them doesn't
    tell me anything about their nutritional value. It doesn't tell me anything about
    how my body deals with the chemical constituents of the food. It doesn't tell
    me how much energy I get from the food, or how quickly this energy is released
    into my body, or how much of the food is going to be expelled as waste, or how
    much of it is going to clog my arteries. I am entirely dependent on information
    sources external to my experience of eating these foods for all knowledge about
    them other than how they taste. I'm reliant on the sciences of biology and nutrition
    to tell me these things. I certainly can't assume that because I like to eat these
    foods they are good for me.\r\n\r\nNow, I'm not the sort of person who is going
    to base all my choices on what I eat based on what science tells me is good for
    me, but nor do I think that my taste provides sufficient information about what
    is good for me. So it is with reading: at the end of the day, I am going to read
    what I want to read, and I hope everyone else will too, but I still want to know
    what science can tell me about how I read and, as a type designer, whether that
    science offers any insights that might be applicable to my job."
  created: '2006-05-26 22:28:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>Someone went to a mall and asked people to make a choice between
    aliased and anti-aliased ITALIC screen type, according to your rock hard opinion
    you\u2019d promptly toss out the result, right?</em>\r\n\r\nWhat was the point
    of the choice? If it was to simply determine which people preferred the look of,
    then I wouldn't toss out the results, because a subjective preference can be determined
    by such a choice. But if the question put to the mall-strollers were 'Which of
    these do you think you would read most quickly and accurately?' then you can be
    damn sure that I would toss out the results. Because reading speed and accuracy
    are not subjective preferences, they are measurable performance indicators. Indeed,
    not only are they measurable, they can <em>only</em> be determined by measuring.\r\n\r\n<em>Not
    here, this CT-Only \u201Chypothesis\u201D was launched on the strength of just
    such a study.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't have a CT-only hypothesis.\r\n\r\nWhich study
    are you talking about? Yes, there have been tests of preference, but there have
    also been tests of performance. The latter tests are the interesting ones.\r\n\r\nHave
    there been enough tests and the right kind of tests to make the kind of decisions
    MS is making about default rendering in the OS <em>based on reading performance
    results?</em> (as opposed basing them on engineering efficiency, maintenance cost,
    etc.) No, I don't think there have been.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, did Apple conduct
    <em>any</em> readability tests before deciding that full-fuzz rendering was going
    to be default in OS X, thereby 'destroying the screen font options' of their users?
    Not to my knowledge. Has Adobe conducted any readability study of their Acrobat
    CoolType rendering? Or did they simply decide that it looked nice and smooth and
    left it at that?"
  created: '2006-05-26 22:51:31'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Sorry David,\r\n\r\nI have been ignoring you because I find some of your
    statements about how to conduct research annoying. I\u2019ve been thinking about
    how to move forward productively.\r\n\r\nClearly we have different interests:
    I\u2019m interested in understanding how the reading process works with the intention
    of using that information to improve future reading environments. I think you
    are less interested in understanding the reading process and want to know about
    user preference among all available environments.\r\n\r\nI find user preference
    to be a less compelling measure of the reading experience because I have seen
    enough instances where there is a mismatch between what users say and their actual
    behavior.\r\nhttp://www.upassoc.org/upa_publications/upa_voice/volumes/2005/april/listening_to_users.html\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, performance measures such as reading speed have been successfully
    used by psychologists for over a century. The results from such studies are very
    reproducible. 1) If two researchers carry out the same study, they almost always
    get the same results. 2) Individual performance is quite consistent \u2013 reader\u2019s
    performance is the same in the lab as it is in \u201Cnatural environments.\u201D
    3.) In reading, there is remarkably little variation across proficient readers
    \u2013 for example everyone shows the word frequency effect. This must be because
    the basic reading processes are the same for all proficient readers.\r\n\r\nI
    think if your goal is to understand what choice a user will make, then preference
    is a fine measure. Here are two ways of measuring preference that are better than
    asking if you like A better than B: The first is using Likert scales. For each
    option give users a 5 or 7 point scale where 1 is strongly disagree and 7 is strongly
    agree and ask if they like condition A. The advantage of this method is that you
    can detect small versus large preference differences. A second method is newer
    method of measuring desirability based on understanding the positive and negative
    associations for a condition.\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/usability/UEPostings/DesirabilityToolkit.doc\r\n\r\nBtw,
    we have used Likert scales in many of our studies, and I\u2019ve also used the
    desirability toolkit.  \r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 22:46:07'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "William: \u201CI don\u2019t understand what you wrote about novice vs expert
    readers\u2014I think there is a typo in what you wrote. Could you explain?\u201D\r\n\r\nPeter:
    \u201CAt the very least the eye-movement statistics must be radically different.\u201D\r\n\r\nMy
    above comments on novice versus expert readers are incoherent, sorry. I eluded
    to a study that showed that children learn a handful of words through arbitrary
    cues \u2013 such as the golden arches being recognized as the word McDonalds.
    By the time that children have learned 100 words they are using letter to sound
    correspondences to recognize words. I think the reading mechanism that these novice
    readers are using are in principle the same as adult readers. I would expect the
    same basic eye movements \u2013 that they make saccades that land in the middle
    of words - and the same areas of the brain to be activated. The process of becoming
    a proficient reader through thousands of hours of practice will make all the involved
    processes more efficient. There will be many fewer saccades and the cortical pathways
    will have been trimmed of unnecessary connections.\r\n\r\nI would be very surprised
    to find that children\u2019s eyes make smooth movements over a line of text or
    that parts of the brain that adults don\u2019t use for reading (say the frontal
    lobe) are active. \r\n\r\nThere are clearly differences between novice and expert
    readers, but I think it\u2019s a matter of efficiency, not a different set of
    processes.\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 23:25:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Stepping sideways on the subject of reading, I discovered this book in a
    secondhand shop a couple of days ago and bought it: <em><a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0520081331/">The
    ethnography of reading</a>,</em> edited by Jonthan Boyanin. I have only read parts
    of the introduction so far, but it looks like an interesting book and a timely
    reminder of the varieties of ways in which people engage with texts.'
  created: '2006-05-28 00:37:19'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "John, could you provide a synopsis when you are through or at least a list
    of contents?\r\n\r\n[Kevin] \"I would be very surprised to find [...] that parts
    of the brain that adults don\u2019t use for reading (say the frontal lobe) are
    active.\" \r\n\r\nIn a 2004 study \"The Neurobiological Basis of Skilled and Impaired
    Reading: Recent Findings and New Directions,\" Rebecca Sandak, Einar Mencl, Stephen
    J. Frost, and Kenneth R. Pugh identify 3 cortical systems or circuits involved
    in reading and reading aquisition: an anterior region, the temporo-parietal (dorsal)
    region and the occipito-temporal (ventral) region. The dorsal and anterior systems
    \"predominate during initial reading acquisition in normally developing children,\"
    with an increased ventral [visual word form area] response \"as proficiency in
    word recognition increases. The switch seems to occur at about 10 1/2 years. Sandak
    et. al., speculate \"that a begining reader on a successful trajectory uses a
    widely distributed cortical system for print processing including temporoparietal,
    frontal, and right hemisphere posterior areas. As reading skill increases, these
    regions play a diminished role, whereas left hemisphere ventral sites become more
    active and presumably, more central to the recognition of printed (word) stimuli.\"\r\n\r\nPugh
    et. al., have little to say about activity in the visual cortex. \r\nHowever at
    least two groups of neuroscientists are finding evidence of \"top-down reorganization
    of activity in the visual pathway as a consequence of training\" or evidence that
    perceptual learning \"improves efficiency by retuning the decision 'template.'\"
    \r\n\r\nTo my mind the central mystery in reading acquisition is encapsulated
    in this question articulated by Stephen Grossberg: \" How does a not-yet-established
    [pe: visual] word representation overcome the salience of well-established letter
    representations? How does unitization of unfamiliar lists of familiar items ever
    get of the ground?\"\r\n\r\nI have some ideas about this of course, but might
    suggest that rhythmic or typographic spacing, following the kind of protocols
    Noordzij recommends, catalyzes the retuning.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-05-28 01:35:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Very nice Peter! \r\n\r\nAre you surprised yet Kevin?\r\n\r\nAgain about
    the 'null result issue.' I asked my friend who has headed a cognitive science
    department, and she confirmed the skepticism in the field about null results.
    However, she also said that people are persuadable, as in the case of the historical
    examples I gave, that you can have significant null results. \r\n\r\nIn any case,
    I think the right way to look at the proficient vs relative novice is that a null
    result would be no difference between proficient and novice NOT that there would
    be no effect on the novice. As I said you could increase spacing to the point
    where the word and word space were confused, which would get an effect on the
    novice, but that I think is artificial. \r\n\r\nThe real question is whether the
    possible difference between novice readers at various stages and proficient readers
    is enough of a possibility to be worth testing vs the usual assumptions. I think
    the evidence Peter cites increases the argument for it being worthwhile.  "
  created: '2006-05-28 02:58:51'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "William, I should mention 1) that the 'retuning' and 're-organizing' researchers
    don't use words as the basis for their demonstrations and data collection, and
    2) the cortical circuitry analysts tend to think of 'visual word form' in 'abstract
    orthographic shape' rather than visual configural terms. So these researchers
    (or Kevin, for that matter) might not draw from their results the same provisional
    conclusions that I make to generate my hypotheses.\r\n\r\nBut stripping the interpretation
    of one set of results from the biases of the authors that report them, and extending
    into an adjacent domain the observations of a second group, makes an alternate
    point of view (with conventional typographical craft-wisdom resonances) plausible,
    if not attractive.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-05-28 03:28:44'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "\"Are you surprised yet Kevin?\"\r\n\r\nI am surprised to see an increase
    in activity in the occipito-temporal (ventral) region. I am not surprised that
    there are areas that become less involved with experience. I am also surprised
    that there are sudden changes. I would expect changes to happen gradually over
    time, not at a particular marker point. I'll have to go read those papers. I have
    not been following the neuroimaging work as closely as Peter.\r\n\r\nI suspect
    that Grossberg's question was rhetorical. He is known for his work on self organizing
    neural networks \u2013 essentially taking undifferentiated input data and making
    sense of the data without being told what the output data should look like.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Kevin"
  created: '2006-05-28 03:48:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>John, could you provide a synopsis when you are through or at least a
    list of contents?</em>\r\n\r\nHere is the list of articles in the <em>Ethnography
    of reading</em> book:\r\n\r\nBoyarin, Daniel. 'Placing reading: ancient Israel
    and medieval Europe.'\r\n\r\nNoakes, Susan. 'Gracious words: Luke's Jesus and
    the reading of sacred poetry at the beginning of the christian era.'\r\n\r\nHowe,
    Nicholas. 'The cultural construction of reading in Anglo-Saxon England.'\r\n\r\nFabian,
    Johannes. 'Keep listening: ethnography and reading.'\r\n\r\nBaker, James N. 'The
    presence of the name: reading scripture in an Indonesian village.'\r\n\r\nDigges,
    Diana & Rappaport, Joanne. 'Literacy, orality, and ritual practice in highland
    Colombia.'\r\n\r\nHorton, H. Mark. 'Japanese spirit and Chinese learning: scribes
    and storytellers in pre-modern Japan.'\r\n\r\nLong, Elizabeth. 'Textual interpretation
    as collective action.'\r\n\r\nBoyarin, Jonathan. 'Voices around the text: the
    ethnography of reading at Mesivta Tifereth Jerusalem.'\r\n\r\nSarris, Greg. 'Keeping
    slug woman alive: the challenge of reading in a reservation classroom.'\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-28 03:56:55'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "John, thanks! This all sounds very interesting. If you tire of it, send it
    over.\r\n\r\nKevin, the Grossberg question is from a 1984 paper \"Unitization,
    Automaticity, Temporal Order, and Word Recognition.\" My interest in his work
    is aroused by the fact that he addresses neural dynamics of <em>perceptual</em>
    grouping and emergent segmentations. My sense is that most models of the <em>perceptual</em>
    processing component in reading make assumptions about perceptual grouping which
    might not be sustainable. Stanislas Dehaene, Laurent Cohen amd Mariano Sigman
    say (2005), \"although many connectionist models of reading have been proposed,
    most have focussed on the interactions between orthography, phonology and semantics,
    <em>ignoring the 'front end' of visual word recognition </em>\". [my emphasis]
    \r\n\r\nIf our motivation in studying reading is to find reasons to believe that
    what we are inclined to think of as important in type design and typography is
    in fact important, than this is where the rubber hits the road, or so I think.\r\n\r\nAccording
    to my scheme, once the process of accurate phonological mapping to orthographic
    sequences conjoined to meaning has stabalized, or been mastered, a <em>perceptual</em>
    remapping based on \"encapsulating linguistic knowledge directly in highly efficient
    pattern-recognizing templates\" (Pugh, Menel, Shawitz, et. al., 2001) can begin
    to take hold. The remapping happens, so it seems to me, at a more 'primitive'
    level than the letter level. \r\n\r\nThis would be my interpretation of what must
    change for specificity for words in the ventral \"visual wordform area\" to emerge.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-05-29 19:46:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John: \"But what we have is an hypothesis, not scientific knowledge, and
    when you have an hypothesis you should try to find a way of testing it.\"\r\n\r\nPlease
    state the hypothesis.\r\n\r\n\"what people want shouldn\u2019t be assumed to be
    equivalent to what they read best.\"       Oh? Please rephrase.\r\n\r\n\"... Mac
    Quartz,\"  Forget about Apple and Adobe. With all due respect, they are not significant
    to this issue. I will tell them they blew it when I get a chance.\r\n\r\n\"I don\u2019t
    have a CT-only hypothesis.\" :) someone does \u2014 it must be called the CT Tuner
    for a reason.\r\n\r\n\"if one is interested in understanding the mechanics of
    reading and being able to compare performance in reading, then the kind of preference
    choices that people make isn\u2019t a reliable indicator of anything.\"\r\nYes
    John, but \"understanding the mechanics of reading\", and \"implementing a ww
    reading Environment\" can quite neatly be divided into two different things. Can't
    they? One is an interesting quest that I'm proud to be witnessing and very grateful
    to learn about, and the other is somethin' else, right?\r\n\r\n\"A metaphor: there
    are lots of foods that I like to eat... I\u2019m reliant on the sciences of biology
    and nutrition to tell me these things.\" First, YOU are not the issue: Rich, Educated,
    148dpi, What's the point? I don't relish skewering this metaphor, but: A. digestion
    is a well understood process, B. 20th c. Science brought us the \"food pyramid\"
    before 21st c. genetics is proving a variety of pyramids are required, C. Despite
    the fact that Kevin doesn't think so, Babies and Old Folk require special food,
    D. the human species didn't need any nutritional science at all until the rise
    of the steamship, and didn't need it this badly until the implementation of ww
    cargo container shipping.\r\n\r\nIf you understand my response, then you understand
    that the requirement of today's ww base of readers is a genetically correct mother
    or granny, her kitchen, recipes and ingredients all installed in the home as opposed
    to any two meal options you can ever test and provide in the lab, even on a couple
    of million people. Get it?\r\n\r\nJohn and the The Mall Test: \"If it was to simply
    determine which people preferred the look of, then I wouldn\u2019t toss out the
    results...\" my point has been steadily focused on the fact that testing the \"look
    of\" something that is meant Only to be \"read\", and then using the results to
    bolster supposed \"Reading Capabilities\", as has been done in several tests,
    is... annoying.\r\n\r\nKevin: \"I find user preference to be a less compelling
    measure of the reading experience because I have seen enough instances where there
    is a mismatch between what users say and their actual behavior.\" \r\n\r\nKevin,
    I'm not interested in what they say either. My \"laundry list\" solves that by
    recording what they do (actual behavior)... for as long as it takes (actual time)...for
    as many kinds of type as they become used to using (actual use). (You could even
    feed your existing studies right into it, and see if you can refine your understanding
    of your own tests.\r\n\r\n\"your statements about how to conduct research [are]
    annoying\"\r\nFlies are annoying too;) I'm not trying to be annoying Kevin.  I
    am interested in what they'll buy. What you are telling me is they will only have
    a choice of OS bs (good bs, but bs nonetheless), so I'm here, attracted to the
    scent.\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-30 16:23:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>Please state the hypothesis.</em>\r\n\r\nI did, in the same message
    from which you extracted my quote, in the sentence before the one you quoted:\r\n\r\n<strong>At
    best, we can extrapolate from our reading experience to a hypothesis about the
    quality of the reading performance, but this is really guesswork. If we enjoyed
    reading something, and it seemed to be quite effortless and to pass quickly, we
    can hypothesise that we were reading well, i.e. with a good correlation of speed
    and comprehension (two measurable and testable criteria).</strong>\r\n\r\nThe
    hypothesis is not mine, it is the one you seem to be making: that there is a correlation
    between the fonts, and text size and rendering options that people choose to use
    and what they read best. It is a very reasonable hypothesis, but it is still a
    hypothesis, and in order to be confirmed it needs to be tested against something
    other than your very good 'laundry list'.\r\n\r\nIf the vast majority of users
    selected font X at size a using rendering option 1, that would be a great indicator
    of what they would buy, and of their preference, but they might still read font
    Y at size b using rendering option 2 more quickly, with greater accuracy, with
    greater comprehension and retention of information, and with less fatigue.\r\n\r\nAs
    you say, you are interested in what people will buy, but this was a thread about
    legibility and readability research, so the question of what people actually read
    best, and whether this might differ from what they prefer, is surely relevant
    to the discussion. It might not, ultimately, be relevant to the fonts that we
    make, <em>especially if there is a difference between preference and performance,</em>
    but I'd still like to know."
  created: '2006-05-31 02:45:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Thanks John. I would not state it that way though. . . \r\n\r\nThe quality
    of the reading experience is dependant on a large number of diverse variables
    from lighting, text matter and weather, to a readers frame of mind. It has not
    ever been quantified over a million-strong sample of users, as a science, and
    even under the most tightly controlled study, saying one true thing about all
    one million users would be impossible. In the area of world wide screen reading,
    where much larger populations exist, where users make their own environments,
    and under the pressure of diverse technologies and document types, science is
    useless. But, in the midst of these variables are typographic variables including
    Em interpretation, script, size, style and rendering. As long as the management
    of these and the other typographic variables is performed with traditional typographic
    care, fonts can be made forever in a straightforward relationship between the
    designer of the font and the user. But if the management of the typographic variables
    is not done with traditional typographic care, e.g. if the em interpretation is
    false, or unequal treatment and/or rendering of x and y dimensions occurs, the
    straightforward relationship between the designer and user is broken. Then, only
    with long observation of the new options, ideally added to the old options, and
    under the personally selected environmental circumstances of many users, can the
    type designer begin to resolve user group issues. And, these issues will continue
    to surface and evolve over the time it takes for the newly mismanaged typographic
    variables to become a new tradition.\r\n\r\n\"Yes John, but \u201Cunderstanding
    the mechanics of reading\u201D, and \u201Cimplementing a ww reading Environment\u201D
    can quite neatly be divided into two different things. Can\u2019t they?\" Can\u2019t
    they?\r\n\r\n\"testing the \u201Clook of\u201D something that is meant Only to
    be \u201Cread\u201D, and then using the results to bolster supposed \u201CReading
    Capabilities\u201D, as has been done in several tests,...\"  Right? Right?\r\n\r\n\"you
    are interested in what people will buy, but this was a thread about legibility
    and readability research, so the question of what people actually read best, and
    whether this might differ from what they prefer, is surely relevant to the discussion.\"\r\n\r\nYeah,
    but what people actually \"read best\", and whether this might \"differ\" from
    what they \"prefer\" is (in the \"new tradition\"), a hostage of the options,
    as is the research itself, as I've seen it. "
  created: '2006-05-31 14:09:14'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "David: \u201Ceven under the most tightly controlled study, saying one true
    thing about all one million users would be impossible\u201D\r\n\r\nSaying something
    that is true about one billion users is exactly my goal. Reading is not a process
    that varies greatly from individual to individual. Like digestion or walking,
    reading happens in about the same way for everybody on the planet. The brain is
    similar to other organs in that it is essentially the same in every person. I
    will quickly prove your above statement wrong by saying that EVERY reader can
    read high frequency words faster than low frequency words.\r\n\r\nIt is my contention
    that that if we can learn more about the reading process that typographers will
    be able to use this information to improve the reading experience for every reader.\r\n\r\n\r\nDavid:
    \"Despite the fact that Kevin doesn\u2019t think so, Babies and Old Folk require
    special food\"\r\n\r\nWhile I do think the reading process is essentially the
    same (you don\u2019t have a separate digestive track or another set of legs as
    a child), it\u2019s a silly statement to say that I don\u2019t recognize life
    stages. My Ph.D. dissertation was on reading acquisition. I developed tools to
    make it easier for children to learn to read.\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-31 17:51:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Saying something that is true about one billion users is exactly my goal.\"\r\n\r\n\"
    EVERY reader can read high frequency words faster than low frequency words.\"\r\n\r\nNice:
    You'll confirm to me when you've proved this on every one of any number of 7 year-old
    Chinese readers then? But at this point, the only thing you can say about a billion
    users is that they lack an OS competition to profit from in their reading options.
    Wonder how that happened, oh yeah, now I remember. \r\n\r\n\"(you don\u2019t have
    a separate digestive track or another set of legs as a child)\"\r\n\r\nNot separate,
    but not equal. Are you not aware of breast milk? You are? How about PKU? and the
    adult carrying a child thing is another set of legs. I guess in your world: legs
    are all legs, eyes are all eyes and fonts are just \"a\" font. Should I go on
    to old age where, the digestive system becomes unable to handle garlic or gin
    and the legs become wheels?\r\n\r\nI'm afraid if you ever really do recognize
    life stages, differences in taste or the turn of the 21st century, I'll most likely
    be waiting to welcome you thru pearly gate #72.289. If not, I guess I'll be sitting
    between Norton and Goudy looking down on a group roast. ;)\r\n\r\n\"It is my contention
    that if we can learn more about the reading process that typographers will be
    able to use this information to improve the reading experience for every reader.\"\r\n\r\nCan
    you give us an example of a study you've run that changed the way you make type?\r\n\r\nJohn,
    Kevin: you still have some questions I would like to know the answers to:  \r\n\r\n\u201CYes
    John, but \u201Cunderstanding the mechanics of reading\u201D, and \u201Cimplementing
    a ww reading Environment\u201D can quite neatly be divided into two different
    things. Can\u2019t they? I mean, even if it could be proven that there was one
    unifying theory of reading for all the world, then would all the people in the
    world need one perfect font (per script), one size, one rendering technology?
    I think you've gotten onto a very partisan track here that is pretty clearly dictated
    by a previous investment in lack of knowledge.\r\n\r\n\u201Ctesting the \u201Clook
    of\u201D something that is meant Only to be \u201Cread\u201D, and then using the
    results to bolster supposed \u201CReading Capabilities\u201D, as has been done
    in several tests,\u2026\u201D is this proper scientific process?"
  created: '2006-06-01 13:02:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "David, Kevin's statement that there are universal scientific laws concerning
    reading is not inconsistent with the need for variation, both for individuals
    and for different situations, as you emphasize. You are just looking at different
    aspects of the problem.  \r\n\r\nTo make an analogy, there is one law of gravity
    for everyone, but different people deal with gravity differently. Most use two
    legs to get around inspite of gravity pulling them down. But babies crawl on all
    fours and some whose legs are hurt need canes or wheels. \r\n\r\nFurthermore,
    there are different shoes good for different situations, and looks are important
    also, though all shoes need to protect against sharp things brusing or cutting
    us when our weight (gravity) presses against them. \r\n\r\nKnowing what those
    laws of reading are--and we only have a glimpse of them now, it seems to me from
    what I hear--will help greatly. Dealing with variation will still be a challenge,
    but knowing more of the laws should help a lot. \r\n\r\nOh, and you don't have
    to test a purported law for everybody. After repeatedly getting no refutations
    in spite of looking for conditions that have the best shot at refuting the purported
    law, it is just accepted. You don't have to check whether the law of gravity applies
    to all Tibetan childen. It does. "
  created: '2006-06-01 14:41:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Yes John, but \u201Cunderstanding the mechanics of reading\u201D, and
    \u201Cimplementing a ww reading Environment\u201D can quite neatly be divided
    into two different things.</em>\r\n\r\nRegardless of whether they can be neatly
    divided, I thought this was a thread about the former, 'research about legibility',
    not a thread about screen reading environments, and that is the basis for all
    my comments. If these things can be neatly divided into two different things,
    why do you want to talk about the latter in the middle of a conversation about
    the former? :)\r\n\r\nSome of Kevin's work is specifically involved with ClearType
    and some of that work is specifically involved with readability. He's also involved
    in studies on readability that are not specifically related to ClearType (what
    I thought this thread was about) and work that is not related to readability but
    to preference and 'personality' in type selection. Since I suspect Microsoft decisions
    about their default rendering system are primarily based on engineering decisions,
    I'm actually rather more interested in Kevin's general readability research than
    anything ClearType specific."
  created: '2006-06-01 23:07:22'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "David: \u201CYou\u2019ll confirm to me when you\u2019ve proved this on every
    one of any number of 7 year-old Chinese readers then?\u201D\r\n\r\nThis paper
    has the data you\u2019re looking for:\r\nChiang, Wen-Chi (2003). The Basic Orthographic
    Units in Children's Recognition of Chinese Characters, Chinese Journal of Psychology.
    45(1), 47-74.\r\n\r\nDavid: \u201CI guess I\u2019ll be sitting between Norton
    and Goudy looking down on a group roast.\u201D\r\n\r\nThat is the nicest possible
    call to Beelzebub I\u2019ve ever received. I\u2019m only sorry to hear that you\u2019re
    already planning your trip to heaven. You must not look your age.\r\n\r\nDavid:
    \u201CCan you give us an example of a study you\u2019ve run that changed the way
    you make type?\u201D\r\n\r\nI\u2019m hopeful that my paper on word recognition
    has convinced some people that we do not recognize words as whole shape patterns.
    That alone should have some impact on how a typeface is designed. It would at
    least argue for not spacing letters as tightly as possible. I\u2019m also hopeful
    that I still have more to contribute.\r\n\r\nDavid: \u201Cif it could be proven
    that there was one unifying theory of reading for all the world, then would all
    the people in the world need one perfect font (per script), one size, one rendering
    technology?\u201D\r\n\r\nI\u2019m not of this opinion at all. While I think that
    there are features that can make letters more or less legible, I also think that
    typefaces can convey additional information through their personality that contributes
    to communication. This is also an interesting area to study.\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-02 07:38:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Kevin \"Chiang, Wen-Chi\" Thanks, I'll check it out, but the thing I'm saying
    about readability research considering the context and purported purpose of your
    work, is to agree that a far more important thing you can say about all users
    is that they read \"where they read\" more, and more naturally, than they read
    \"where and when you tell them to read.\" Research anyone? \r\n\r\n\"[Kevin's
    research] has convinced some people that we do not recognize words as whole shape
    patterns.\" As I've always said, with the exception of \"I\", \"a\", Chinese,
    and more, I've never disputed this and I consider the entire issue a puff of fog
    intended, or not, to part us from the consistent letter spacing of print, and
    the integer spacing of screen fonts. An option I think users should have in conjunction
    with some form of anti-aliased letterform.\r\n\r\n\"That alone should have some
    impact on how a typeface is designed.\"\r\nGreat impact. But I...am looking for
    improvements.\r\n\r\n\"It would at least argue for not spacing letters as tightly
    as possible.\"\r\nWith all due respect, No text face, assuming we're still in
    readability, has ever succeeded by being spaced as tightly as possible, or approaching
    such a state of spacing. Only Beverly Readahillbillies would need research into
    this. :)\r\n\r\nJohn: \"this was a thread about the former, \u2018research about
    legibility\u2019, not a thread about screen reading environments\"\r\nI....tink...de...r...elated.
    I get the feeling Mr. 145 dpi just don't want to connect the dots.\r\n\r\n\"Microsoft
    decisions about their default rendering system are primarily based on engineering
    decisions, I\u2019m actually rather more interested in Kevin\u2019s general readability
    research than anything ClearType specific.\"\r\n\r\nSo why's it seem so hard for
    you to accept my point that all this research as pure marketing fog after the
    fact. With the fact being that engineering decisions are made, and then the psych
    and type departments react. In essence typographic \"Fire, Aim, Ready\" at the
    ultimate cost of a proper set of readability options for the user? And, this is
    not the first \"Fire, Aim, Ready\" we've gotten from your patient, Dr. John. ;)"
  created: '2006-06-02 14:03:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I\u2026.tink\u2026de\u2026r\u2026elated.</em>\r\n\r\nSo I respond to
    a post in which you say that they 'can quite neatly be divided into two different
    things', and then you come back at me insisting that they are related.\r\n\r\n<em>So
    why\u2019s it seem so hard for you to accept my point that all this research as
    pure marketing fog after the fact.</em>\r\n\r\nWho said it is hard for me to accept
    that point? I don't entirely agree with it, but yes Microsoft does employ the
    research in a marketing way, not least in internal marketing to persuade other
    groups within Microsoft to pay attention to typography (not a bad thing, that).
    I'm not actually that interested in how MS uses that research, since I'm going
    to review the published papers myself and draw my own conclusions, which is the
    nice thing about having the research done by academics and published in peer reviewed
    journals: you don't have to take Microsoft's interpretation of the results if
    you suspect them of being 'spun' for marketing purposes. Some of the studies I
    think are pretty silly -- the 'personality association of typefaces' study, for
    example, which seems to me to beg the question -- and I can sometimes spot things
    in experiment design that make me question whether the results would be different
    if the experiment had taken some additional factors into account. As far as I
    recall, I have only ever cited one study that related directly to ClearType.\r\n\r\nAs
    I wrote above, I'm primarily interested research that tells us something about
    how we read, because I'd really like to know, and for the most part this is not
    the sort of research Kevin his doing. I'm not actually seeking research that will
    tell me how to design a typeface or what screen rendering is best. Very little
    of the information I've read about reading seems practically applicable to type
    design in the sense of <em>doing something different from what I'm already doing.</em>
    Sometimes I read something that gives me an idea or two to explore in a new typeface,
    but I think that's about the limit of the practical application."
  created: '2006-06-02 18:24:16'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"Sometimes I read something that gives me an idea or two to explore in a
    new typeface [...]\r\n\r\nJohn, what would be an example of this?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-06-02 19:10:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The ideas are often tangential to the research, which acts more as an inspiration
    for a line of thought than suggesting a specific concept to be applied in the
    design. The most significant bit of readability research for me is that which
    relates to the importance of high contrast typeforms with consistent stroke density,
    which is a predictable result when one thinks about reading in terms of ink on
    paper and just what makes that such a superior reading experience, but which some
    people don't seem to want to admit to having implications for greyscale screen
    rendering. But it also has implications in type design for print, and I'm a lot
    more conscious now of designing details of type, especially things lik connections
    between stems and bowls, in terms not merely of avoiding unwanted heaviness but
    of achieving a specific level of overall density. I think a lot of type design
    has historically been aimed at avoiding things looking too dark or too light,
    i.e. a kind of negative, usually iterative approach, rather than trying to determine
    positively what is 'just right' and analysing shapes and their relationships in
    terms of nailing that. So there is an example of an idea coming from research
    and influencing not simply a type design but a general approach to type design.\r\n\r\nRelated
    to this are some ideas I have for small type, especially in non-Latin scripts.
    I'm working out ideas for a 6pt Devanagari type, not because I think there is
    a huge untapped market for such a thing, but because I'm interested in how it
    could be done.\r\n\r\nThe counter-prediction results of the lateral masking study
    you sent me, Peter, continue to intrigue me, and have me thinking about serifs
    a little differently than I used to. I'm not sure yet how this might translate
    in design terms.\r\n\r\nA good question, Peter, that makes me think. I know that
    readability research has inspired some ideas, but I find I can't easily point
    to a specific relationship between some test result and a design decision."
  created: '2006-06-03 00:39:59'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "David, you claim that my studies aren\u2019t meaningful because I test readers
    in labs rather than following them home to see what they want to read.\r\n\r\nYes,
    I use a lab and establish specific reading conditions in a study. That\u2019s
    how science works. I can\u2019t compare Person X in Environment X with Reading
    Condition X to Person Y in Environment Y with Reading Condition Y because I won\u2019t
    be able to tell if differences are due to the environment or the reading condition.
    It\u2019s an involved process to design a study that only measures the variable
    you\u2019re investigating.\r\n\r\nThis is a useful way to conduct research because
    I know that people use the same reading processes at home or in a lab. My point
    with the word frequency example is that there are universal processes in reading.
    I can expect to find a word frequency effect if I test a 7 year old Chinese child
    at home or if I were to test you in my lab. There are many other universal variables
    that can make reading easier or more difficult. For example I can read faster
    if my environment has 50 foot-candles of levels then if I\u2019m reading by 10
    foot-candles of light. I can also read faster with +2 points of leading than when
    text is set solid. I would find these differences in someone\u2019s home or in
    my lab. Are these differences obvious? Sure, once you know the results.\r\n\r\nDavid:
    \u201COnly Beverly Readahillbillies would need research into this.\u201D\r\n\r\nYour
    response shows a lack of curiosity. I set up a straw man that text shouldn\u2019t
    be set as tightly as possible and you responded that everyone knows that. I would
    like to hear your thoughts about how to define the amount of letterspace necessary
    for an optimal reading experience. It\u2019s not clear to me only Beverly Readhillbillies
    need research into this. Tracy, Kindersley, or Noordzij\u2019s rules of letterspacing
    do not come to the same conclusions. I think this is a very interesting area to
    study. Are your fonts well designed?\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-03 01:07:05'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"I set up a straw man that text shouldn\u2019t be set as tightly as possible
    [...]\"\r\n\r\nKevin, how is this a straw man in terms of your claim that we don't
    recognize words as whole shape patterns. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-06-03 18:53:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Kevin, I am puzzled. I noted above (second post of May 19) that the idea
    of reading by the gross external word shape is refuted. But as I said, refuting
    the idea that we read by word patterns, where the pattern includes salient internal
    features of the letters, seems to me not so easy. Do you think that this view--which
    Peter and I believe Hrant advocates--is refuted by your paper?\r\n\r\nThis view
    is the one I was recommending that you try to test by comparing the effect of
    disrupted spacing on novice vs proficient readers, and possibly also dyslexic
    vs proficient readers.\r\n\r\nIncidentally, while Hrant has I believe regularly
    advocated tight spacing (and of course he will speak for himself), I don't think
    Peter has. I don't think this view that we read by 'word pattern of salient letter
    features' necessarily dictates tight or loose spacing in itself. It would depend
    on what most helps the identification of the salient letter features. Personally
    I think that a lot of spacing of digital text fonts is a bit on the tighter than
    ideal--ideal for the sake of readability I mean.       "
  created: '2006-06-03 20:57:23'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[William] \"I don\u2019t think Peter has.\"\r\n\r\nI borrow my spacing principle
    from Noordzij. The Noordzij principle relates the interletter spacing to the size
    of the spaces inside the letters with closed or open counters. These inter-letter
    and intra-letter spaces must be in synch, that is, rhythmically co-ordinated.
    In a font with a high stroke counterpoint (stroke width) to x-height ratio, or
    a high stroke counterpoint to horizontal glyph width ratio, the counters will
    be smallish in size so the spacing can be tight. \r\n\r\n(Does Hrant really advocate
    the view of reading implicit in your statement? Internal features are masked in
    parafoveal vision, which for Hrant is the site of the hidden core of reading.)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-06-03 22:07:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">relates the interletter spacing to the size of the spaces inside the letters\r\n\r\nTracy's
    method also does this. I assume that this is a traditional typefounder's view.
    \r\n\r\nAs I said earlier, I don't really understand Hrant's ideas aboout 'boumas',
    so he can speak for himself as to how much he agrees with you  or not. "
  created: '2006-06-04 00:59:22'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Peter: \u201Chow is this a straw man in terms of your claim that we don\u2019t
    recognize words as whole shape patterns.\u201D\r\n\r\nMy claim that we shouldn\u2019t
    space letters as tight as possible is a straw man because it is underdefined.
    I imagine that everyone agrees that letters in a word shouldn\u2019t overlap by
    half. The parallel letter recognition model does predict that each letter needs
    some amount of separation to make each letter recognizable, but doesn\u2019t go
    far enough to make testable predictions about spacing.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m not ruling
    out Tracy\u2019s or Noordzij\u2018s model of spacing. They are the only real theories
    of letter spacing that we currently have.\r\n\r\nWilliam: \u201Crefuting the idea
    that we read by word patterns, where the pattern includes salient internal features
    of the letters, seems to me not so easy.\u201D\r\n\r\nI think internal and external
    letter features are critical for recognizing letters, but I find it highly improbable
    that whole words are recognized by internal letter features. There is less direct
    evidence about this theory, but the moving window study described in Typo 13 would
    say that any formulation of a whole word approach is wrong.\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-05 15:22:14'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John: \"So I respond to a post in which you say that they \u2018can quite
    neatly be divided into two different things\u2019, and then you come back at me
    insisting that they are related.\"\r\n\r\n:) You lost you. I said \u201Cunderstanding
    the mechanics of reading\u201D, and \u201Cimplementing a ww reading Environment\u201D
    can quite neatly be divided into two different things. On this otherwise pure
    thread on this otherwise pure threaded forum,  I apologize.\r\n\r\n\"the importance
    of high contrast typeforms with consistent stroke density ...some people don\u2019t
    seem to want to admit to having implications for greyscale screen rendering.\"
    \r\n\r\nAnd are these \"implications\" different for people who don\u2019t seem
    to want to admit to having implications for fonts dipped in CT?\r\n\r\nKevin:
    \"David, you claim that my studies aren\u2019t meaningful because I test readers
    in labs rather than following them home to see what they want to read.\"\r\n\r\nI
    don't consider your studies meaningless because you test readers in labs, I consider
    your studies to be meaningfully matched to the problem they claim to address,
    and to the claims made in relation to some of your studies. I just think the meaning
    is wrong and the claims misguided. And, readers'll be plenty scared about this
    at the \"office\". Following them home is probably not a good idea at this point...sending
    software, however...\r\n\r\nAlso, I appreciate scientific method, but if you've
    a critical variable in the center of the issue, (what text's being read), that
    Cannot be Repeated, you have uncertainty as a result of being forced to change
    2 variables at once even if you don't want to . . . Don't 'cha?\r\n\r\n\"I would
    like to hear your thoughts about how to define the amount of letterspace necessary
    for an optimal reading experience.\" \r\n\r\nI would like to hear Napoleon's thoughts
    on how to define the amount of salt necessary for an optimal eating experience,
    I would like to hear Georgia O'Keefe's thoughts on how to define the amount of
    white necessary for an optimal art experience and I would like to hear Lenny Bruce's
    thoughts on how to define the amount of silence necessary for an optimal social
    experience. What's the rest of the food, and who's eating? What's the rest of
    the painting, and who's looking? Is it a wedding, a funeral or what? and who are
    the people? An optimal reading experience is not a single thing to all people,
    is it?\r\n\r\nThe word space, and leading control, along with the availability
    or lack of pair kerning are where any serious discussion of letterspacing begins.
    But, before you look at them for an optimal reading experience, you (not normally,
    just here), have to trace the whole system back to its \"root\" interpretation
    of the em to see what you've got to work with. In this case of Windows, one begins
    with a redefinition of points per inch. In this shrinking of the size of all type,
    a threshold is crossed that makes it advantageous, in the pursuit of optimal reading
    experience, to increase the x-ht, basically, altering the proportions of the font
    away from a master capable of performing outside of the text range. This is fine,
    but if you do this, I don't think you need to experiment with the letterspacing
    or consult any grand theories (all about print anyway), it should just open it
    up at a rate slightly greater than the rate of the lowercase's already expanded
    body. And, if you plan on preparing the fonts for a system that lacks grid fitting
    control in X, add a little more space onto that, and you've got a 8 pt. design,
    with a label that says 12 point. Good?\r\n\r\nAfter print (right now), is similar
    to several other points in history, though it's been a lot worse. Post Gutenberg
    there was a bonanza of bad letterspacing from the unskilled use of truncated cases.
    The fledgling type biz had just eliminated the scriptorium, but not yet invested
    in properly compromised letterforms. We also saw letterspacing fall into a long
    dark interim between the invention of the typewriter, (an obvious letterspacing
    blight) and the second generation of personal computers (letterspacing without
    kerning). In both cases, the type designer was not entirely unlike Goldfish vs.
    Firehose. And, in those sad times the letterspace optimizer was/is ye olde large
    word space :)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-05 15:57:07'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Kevin] \"I\u2019m not ruling out Tracy\u2019s or Noordzij\u2018s model of
    spacing. They are the only real theories of letter spacing that we currently have.\r\n\r\nI
    suggest we specify a benchmark for testing based on fourier transforms. I base
    this on the observation that spacing which meets Noordzij's standard leads to
    a fourier transform profile in the frequency domain that shows a marked clustering
    of vertical components around--but not uniformly on--a phasal mean, with no clear
    competing harmonics. It should be possible to find this for every typeface tested.
    This distinctive profile breaks down when spacing is varied beyond a given range.\r\n\r\nThe
    goal than would be to require the parties of the debate about models of reading
    to make predictions, relative to this benchmark, on the basis of a fully specified
    theory about perceptual processing relative to phasally rhythmic arrays. Fully
    specified would mean neurophysical modelling, given what is known about colunms
    and layers, transduction, summation, lateral inhibition, receptive field behaviour
    and feature binding in the visual cortex.\r\n\r\nDavid: Sorry I'm not responding
    to your often interesting posts. I'm having trouble compiling a clear image of
    what you're after or about. (Others might say the same about mine)\r\n\r\nBy the
    way, I'll be in the NYC area for a few days. Anybody I should meet?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-06-05 19:07:55'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Kevin] \"[...] the moving window study described in Typo 13 would say that
    any formulation of a whole word approach is wrong.\"\r\n\r\nIf, as I claim, the
    decisive part of visual wordform resolution happens in the form resolving field
    just around the point of fixation and indexes the entire word as the unit of perception
    (when the word is of a modest length), the moving window study would not directly
    touch my claims about how the foveal part of reading works. The moving study would
    only assist me in guaging the extent and coarseness of the parafoveal preview
    benefit.\r\n\r\nI would claim parafoveal vision assembles some level of 'ensemble
    statistics' about what lies ahead in the line of reading, and these are sufficient
    at least for 'indexing' or pretuning the foveal attentional window as well as
    for deciding a strategic landing site for the next fixation. But exact specification
    of the nature and coarseness of the ensemble statistics and how far xxx's go in
    confounding them is difficult. \r\n\r\nXxxxing out some letters may not be fatal
    to the benefit (although it could be detrimental to some minor degree, but Xing
    in some spaces even if all the letters are in place might be more detrimental.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-06-05 19:52:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the moving window study described in Typo 13 would say that any formulation
    of a whole word approach is wrong.\r\n\r\nKevin, at the time I read that paper,
    I pretty much dismissed any form of the 'whole word' view, so, agreeing with you,
    I didn't look at your arguments closely. Only after discussing Peter's views with
    him--after being critical of his rhetorical style!--I began to understand them,
    and to see that he might be on to something. \r\n\r\nNow rereading that portion
    of your paper on the 'window study' method, I do agree that it calls any form
    of the 'whole word' view into question. \r\n\r\nHowever, it doesn't seem conclusive
    to me. Part of the problem is that the difference between the number of letters
    and whole words is very little. Therefore, I wonder how many times when the person
    looks at a group of letters he is actually catching the same number of words under
    both regimes--particularly as the saccades seem to be planned ahead to catch words.\r\n\r\nAnother
    issue is that I suspect we are able to identify pieces of words, especially phonically
    meaningful pieces, like th and oo, as wholes. And then we can guess words from
    these, and not only letter identification, or whole word identification. In other
    words, it might be that every method may be tried, but the whole word pattern
    first and most efficiently.  \r\n\r\nTo make more sensible comments on this I
    will obviously have to read the paper and study its methodology and results. However,
    at this point it still seems to me worthwhile to try to devise a more crucial
    test, either using the moving window type of test, or the spacing disruption I
    mentioned above. "
  created: '2006-06-06 00:05:05'
date: '2006-05-13 14:43:02'
node_type: forum
title: Research about legibility

---
