---
author:
  name: MickM
body: Just bought the [[Designing Type]] by [[Karen Cheng]] and its the best book
  ever... Even before looking at it I used to say that a good type design book should
  have:a.basic rvisual rules and (most importantly) 26 Different chapters, ONE for
  each letter (or52) with all the individual characteristics and that exactly what
  this book is about. For some weird reason there seems to be no bibliography devoted
  to the actual proffesional design of fonts.. I would recomend Cheng's book to anyone.
comments:
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "http://typophile.com/node/18679\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/wiki/Triumvirate"
  created: '2006-05-16 20:10:46'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Peter Bilak has a nice little article on his site explaining why this isn't
    the best book ever (if you want to learn about typeface design):\r\nhttp://www.typotheque.com/articles/designing_type_/"
  created: '2006-05-16 21:12:38'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "MickM\r\n\r\nI don't know that is the best book ever but it certainly is
    the best book I have seen that focuses on letterform construction, on a letter
    by letter basis. Bilak seems to miss the point of it completely.\r\n\r\nGerald
    Lange\r\nhttp://BielerPress.blogspot.com"
  created: '2006-05-18 09:45:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'I don''t think Peter is missing the point at all: the book is entitled <em>Designing
    Type</em> and advertises itself as focusing on ''processes and issues of designing
    type''. It may well be a good book on letterform construction, and valuable in
    that regard, but letterform construction is not type design and analysis of letterform
    construction is not analysis of type design <em>processes.</em> Obviously these
    are criticisms of what the book claims to be and is advertised to be, rather than
    criticisms of what it actually is. As Peter says, the book is useful in providing
    a comparison of approaches to letterform construction. But to claim this is focusing
    on type design processes is a bit like saying a book on structural engineering
    focuses on architectural design processes.'
  created: '2006-05-18 21:42:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I know I've touted this before, but [[Stanley Hess]]' "[[The Modification
    of Letterforms]]" is one book that does address general principles, however it
    is also open to Peter's criticsm of the Cheng book, that it does not treat of
    letter combinations.
  created: '2006-05-18 21:52:06'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: there are a lot of books that <em>should</em> be written on typography. maybe
    some of you will write one of these books to fill in the gaps.
  created: '2006-05-18 22:00:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So are we supposed to dislike Lawson's book because of the title?\r\n\r\nAlso:
    the business of naming books these days is quite Machiavellian (blame search engines
    in part) with the author often having very little say in it! You should hear what
    Cavanaugh has to say about the title of his \"Digital Type Design\"...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/2480\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-18 22:36:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Cheng's  book should be titled: \"Looking at Traditional Roman Typeface Classification--an
    analysis of Differences in Letterform Construction.\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-18 22:36:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Lawson's book is one of those happy texts that offer more than the title
    suggests. Cheng's offers less, and also less than the introduction to the book
    suggests.\r\n\r\nIt is precisely because there are so few books on type design
    that we need to critically appraise books that do come out which claim e.g. to
    be focused on type design processes and issues, because they may easily be taken
    up by people, especially students and ill-informed teachers, as standard texts,
    simply because there are no alternatives. Cheng's book seems a useful sort of
    thing, and I'm glad it exists. But it isn't really about what it says it is about."
  created: '2006-05-18 22:49:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> they may easily be taken up by people, especially\r\n> students and ill-informed
    teachers, as standard texts\r\n\r\nAnything is better than having \"The Stroke:
    Theory of Writing\"\r\nas the main textbook... I'm pretty sure that nobody recommends\r\n\"The
    Horse Poop: Theory of Transportation\" as a textbook in\r\nautomotive design classes.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-18 22:52:59'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: i just wanted to add that the german version of this book (released by <a
    href="http://www.typografie.de/" target="_blank">hermann schmidt mainz</a>) is
    <a href="http://www.fontblog.de/files/category-2.html#unique-entry-id-196" target="_blank">said
    to be very nice</a> (linking to juergen sieberts fontblog.de).
  created: '2006-05-18 22:55:40'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "<cite>there are a lot of books that should be written on typography</cite>\r\nExactly.
    'Anatomy of a Typeface' is a pleasant read, but it doesn't say much for the state
    of the literature that it should be canonical."
  created: '2006-05-19 02:15:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Anything is better than having \u201CThe Stroke: Theory of Writing\u201D\r\nas
    the main textbook.</em>\r\n\r\nActually, I think trying to build a type design
    curriculum around either book would be equally mistaken. But <em>The Stroke</em>
    makes no claims to being about type design, and I think one would have to deliberately
    misread it in order to think it was about type design. It is about what it says
    it is about, a theory of <em>writing.</em> It doesn't even contain a single illustration
    of a piece of type. It is completely concerned with the study and description
    of written forms."
  created: '2006-05-19 02:37:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The Stroke makes no claims to being about type design\r\n> ... one would
    have to deliberately misread it in order\r\n> to think it was about type design.
    \r\n\r\nPlease tell that to Mr $24-Per-Hour-Per-Student:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19708
    _\r\nhttp://www.cooper.edu/ce/calligph.html\r\n\r\nNot to mention the 3000 Euro,
    and aptly named, VIDE guys:\r\nhttp://www.viavide.com/summerexperiences/type_design_d_roos.xml\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-19 02:59:07'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "http://www.cooper.edu/ce/calligph.html\r\n\r\nCool!\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-05-19 04:14:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Wish I could take it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-19 05:46:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Cool!\r\n\r\nJust as long as we're clear that the \"Noordzij doesn't\r\nprescribe,
    he describes\" incantation is pure codswallop.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-19 06:02:55'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "I wish John would write the book instead of wasting his time responding to
    dumb ass Typophile emails. But, writing the book, that is a different thing altogether.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-05-19 10:13:22'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I think 1) John's claim that <em>The Stroke</em> \"makes no claims to being
    about type design\" and \"is completely concerned with the study and description
    of written forms\" is misleading, and 2) the 'incantation' [sic] Hrant wants us
    to believe is 'codswallop' ought to be taken seriously. \r\n\r\nGerrit Noordzij:
    [Foreward 2005] \"My contribution to the course of graphic design at the Royal
    Academy of Art in The Hague was founded on calligraphic exercises. Calligraphy
    is handwriting pursued for its own sake, dedicated to the quality of the shapes.
    From evaluating and discussing our experiences a theory of writing emerged that
    allowed us to describe the properties of shapes with parametric precision, without
    imposing aesthetic or ideological conditions.This book is an introduction to the
    theory.\"\r\n\r\nAnd in an unpublished text provisionally called \" The decadence
    of all design:\" \"While looking for an alternative [to indoctrination] I avoided
    the subject of design. Instead I concentrated on the interaction of tool and shape
    that could be expressed in parameters of the stroke. And here, at a convenient
    distance from design, I found the Archimedean point that enabled me to describe
    design with a high degree of precision.\"\r\n\r\nNo book will say all there is
    to say about designing type, but I do think Noordzij's book deserves the status
    of 'recommended reading.' My hope in translating it was that it would achieve
    'recommended reading' status, and that it's actual worth be recognized. If the
    subject was the shape characteristics of exhaust systems in modes of public transportation,
    the horse poop metaphor might have been a little bit less of a load of crap. (I
    have not seen Karen Cheng's book.)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-05-19 15:09:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I quite liked The Stroke and am grateful to Peter for his translation. I
    think we all need to stay open to all ideas even if we don't agree with them.
    \ Tolerance is the key to an open mind. Unequivocal disdain leads us to welding
    the dead-bolt lock closed.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-19 15:19:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '''The Stroke'' is one of the handful of best books on type, because it has
    new and valuable insights that can be found in no other author. Type is not writing,
    of course. But writing remains an "underlying force" [van Krimpen] in the design
    of letters, and for that reason ''The Stroke'' is a must-read. Some of the history
    in it is not accurate, but that is a minor matter. '
  created: '2006-05-19 15:36:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Noordzij\u2019s book deserves the status of \u2018recommended reading.\u2019\r\n\r\nI
    agree! Although pretty much how an automotive\r\nengineer analyses the scene of
    a freeway pile-up.\r\n\r\nThe problem, Peter, is when the book starts getting
    recommended as the sole/central textbook in a type design course. When that happens,
    you can't convince anybody with half a set of wits that the \"describes, doesn't
    prescribe\" hymn holds any water whatsoever. The proof is the fonts, and in the
    curricula. If GN truly agreed with that hymn and cared about the fallout of its
    de facto fallacy, he would tell his disciples to cut it out already. Personally,
    I have to suspect he <cite>loves</cite> the fallout. Why? Because <cite>his own
    fonts are highly chirographic!</cite> Wake up and smell the fuel & oil on the
    pavement.\r\n\r\n> Type is not writing\r\n\r\n\"There is no essential difference
    between writing and typography.\" -GN\r\n\r\nI'm sorry, but it's quite pitiful
    how you guys are picking\r\nand choosing whatever sound bites suit your own purposes.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-19 17:22:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">pitiful how you guys are picking\r\nand choosing whatever sound bites suit
    your own purposes\r\n\r\nI have another adjective than 'pitiful': 'wise' ;)\r\n\r\nMy
    purpose is not to evangelize for Noordzij's views, but to learn from him. And
    there is a lot to disagree with but more importantly a lot to learn. "
  created: '2006-05-19 18:11:29'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"choosing whatever sound bites suit your own purposes.\"\r\n\r\nDo I? \r\nDon't
    you?\r\n\r\nAnother quote (I've used it before): \"It is decadent to make an artificial
    distance between the tool and the shape, but keeping them artificially together
    is decadent as well.\r\n\r\nThis is pretty categorically non-prescriptive if you
    ask me. It doesn't restrict freedom of movement, and it puts designers on the
    hook for being clear about why they are doing what they are doing, whether that
    be to optimize readability at text sizes or provide a repertoire of options for
    display. The parameters are there to give designers a handle on shape. I see nothing
    pernicious or deceitful or dishonest about any of this. Noordzij is concerned
    that designer be aware of what their shape-making actions represent. He is not
    interested in imitators.\r\n______\r\n\r\n\u201CThere is no essential difference
    between writing and typography.\u201D -GN\r\n\r\nBill might better have said:
    \"Type is not handwriting\"\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-05-19 18:12:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William: Well, we agree then.\r\nBut I still worry that some people might
    paint a rosier picture\r\nfor themselves than what the reality on the ground indicates.\r\n\r\n>
    Don\u2019t you?\r\n\r\nI try to pick up and amalgamate everything I'm hearing
    from GN. I certainly don't conveniently ignore the fact (protest until hell freezes
    over, it will still be true) that GN thinks the invention of printing was a fall
    from grace, that he makes chirographic fonts, and teaches others how to. Doesn't
    prescribe? Equine dung.\r\n\r\nLet's see him come out and say that his book shouldn't
    be the\r\ncentral/sole reference in a typeface design course. What we're\r\nseeing
    is nothing short of cultish, and for the sake of the poor\r\nstudents it must
    stop.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-19 18:15:48'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"I try to pick up and amalgamate everything I\u2019m hearing from GN.\"\r\n\r\nAnd
    who here doesn't? \r\n\r\nWhat have you read of Noordzij's?\r\nWhere does Noordzij
    say the invention of printing was a fall from grace?\r\nWhich typefaces of Noordzij
    do you know?\r\n\r\nI have probably said enough about the issue, and I have always
    felt that more needs to be said than Noordzij says about the optical-grammatical
    and gestural-atmospheric prospects opened by typographic contrast and feature
    manipulation. Moreover I accept that your basic complaint about 'chiro-referential'
    type reduces to a question worth asking,  but when I sense a type-design-historical
    movement or a commendable analytic effort is being stubbornly misrepresented,
    publically, opportunistically and repeatedly treated with disdain, or the integrity
    of the opponent's message willfully occluded, I feel obliged to speak out. This
    may not be your intention, but it is what comes across.\r\n\r\nIt is possible
    that a reader is unable to grasp how a writer can claim one thing and seem to
    do another, but that is no reason for derision. I sometimes feel as if I am being
    pummelled into submission, rather than constructively engaged.\r\n\r\nWould it
    be better to just walk away?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-05-19 20:48:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Where does Noordzij say the invention of printing was a fall from grace?\r\n\r\nAccording
    to somebody who doesn't want to admit it, nowhere.\r\nIt's right there in plain
    English (I've pointed it out before, and you've reacted, so I know you know, so
    I don't want to waste more time) but since natural language is inherently fuzzy,
    there's always room for escape artistry or coping mechanisms.\r\n\r\nThese patchy,
    hyper-jargon, by-proxy apologisms that GN delivers through you don't cut it. Let
    him put as a preamble to everything he writes: \"Do not use these ideas to make
    type!\" Repeat: let him ask his disciples to stop supposedly misusing his ideas,
    to stop using his book as the core of type design instruction. He won't, because
    he doesn't want them to. Because they are not misusing his ideas, they are <cite>applying</cite>
    them, just like he has been.\r\n\r\nDisdain? For actions, no - we're all weak
    humans. \"Do as I say, not as I do.\" But for denialism, yes, disdain by the truck-load
    (and not the horse-drawn-carriage-load).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-19 21:10:59'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"cryptic, hyper-jargon, by-proxy apologisms that GN delivers through [me]\"\r\n\r\nSorry,
    my comments come directly from me. They represent my understanding of what I take
    the author to be saying. Sometimes I check my perceptions with the author to see
    if they represent his intentions."
  created: '2006-05-19 21:42:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter: <em>I think 1) John\u2019s claim that The Stroke \u201Cmakes no claims
    to being about type design\u201D and \u201Cis completely concerned with the study
    and description of written forms\u201D is misleading...</em>\r\n\r\nIt also represents
    my reading of the book, which is in the context of my readings in palaeography.
    It is only because I know Noordzij has taught at The Hague and I have seen his
    type design work and the work of his students that I would think to relate his
    ideas to type design. If I encountered <em>The Stroke</em> without knowing anything
    about Noordzij's involvement in type, and considered only the content of the book,
    I would presume that its principal audience was palaeographers and its principal
    critique was of common methods of palaeographic analysis, which seek to categorise
    letter shapes without understanding the tools and techniques involved in making
    them. For me, despite the fact that I am a type designer, this seems the content
    of the book. Applying the content to type design requires interpretation and extrapolation,
    because the subject of type design is not directly addressed in the text.\r\n\r\nHrant:
    <em>The proof is the fonts...</em>\r\n\r\nThesis? Beowulf? Proforma? Caecilia?
    Inter? The work of the most notable graduates of The Hague programme is hardly
    characterised by strong chirographic characteristics, and is notably dissimilar
    to Noordzij's own typeface design. If you talk with these designers, it is obvious
    that their engagement with Noordzij's ideas are critical, and they need to be
    critical precisely because Noordzij positions his ideas at a distance from design
    (deliberately, as Peter's quotes indicate). The ideas are not prescriptive for
    type design -- cannot be prescriptive for type design -- because they do not engage
    with the processes of type design: they need to be interpreted, extrapolated and
    critically applied by the student."
  created: '2006-05-19 21:43:31'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: John, points taken--I now understand the background to your comment. However
    there are strong hints, especially in the forwards and on page 72 in reference
    to John Baskerville.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]
  created: '2006-05-19 22:53:37'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "Perhaps there is no such thing as a \"best book\". \r\n\r\nOne of the things
    that I like about Bringhurst is that his book shows the impact of various design
    choices. This makes it possible to step back from the content and examine, and
    analyse, the book as an object. To take an obvious example, each of his appendices
    is laid out differently. \r\n\r\nVery helpful.\r\n\r\nA book about a particular
    philosophy towards design of type, or about the development of a specific type,
    has its own place, either a good or bad book for what it is and (if I can inject
    a personal bias) whether it is well written.   "
  created: '2006-05-20 00:17:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I now understand the background to your comment.\r\n\r\nMore equine dung.
    A couple of chirography apologists\r\npropping each other up after tripping over
    one another.\r\n\r\nJohn was caught with his pants down, surprised that the GN
    book is used so centrally in those classes; he doesn't agree with it, but he won't
    admit that in my presence, and you're helping him recover from the faux pas. How
    cute is that!\r\n\r\n> hardly characterised by strong chirographic characteristics\r\n\r\nWhat's
    \"strong\"?\r\nChirography is at the heart of all of it, by their own admission.\r\n\r\n>
    The ideas are not prescriptive for type design\r\n\r\nThen it should not be the
    sole/main textbook for any type design class.\r\nThe fact that it is means there
    is a big lie hovering over.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-20 00:59:47'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"More equine dung [...]\"\r\n\r\nSo be it.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-05-20 02:36:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"a load of crap\"\r\n\r\nI on the other hand didn't mind that one bat guano.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-20 04:19:11'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: My 'so be it' was a sigh of resignation. I didn't see the point in pursuing
    the matter further.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]
  created: '2006-05-20 04:42:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> a sigh of resignation.\r\n\r\nI know - hence my reply.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-20 04:44:27'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "GN's animus in Letterletter especially is surely revulsion at what he took
    to be the widespread incompetence of a now long-gone generation of palaeographers,
    as John says; and from what the one palaeographer I knew at university told me
    this disgust wasn't unjustified. Calligraphic history is his thing; he may be
    a bad influence, but only in the same way that 'Papazian on the Bouma' would be
    if by perverse mischance it became a set text for historians of calligraphy.\r\nOn
    the other hand, yes, he should have made the point more clearly himself. But doesn't
    he say somewhere that the use of his approach in teaching type design is (paraphrasing
    wildly) to provide exactly that merely-cultural norm against which genuinely typographic
    decisions can be measured? And would any type designer incapable of seeing that
    there was more to text design than the moving front have produced really valuable
    work had Noordzij not corrupted him?"
  created: '2006-05-20 05:14:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>John was caught with his pants down, surprised that the GN book
    is used so centrally in those classes; he doesn\u2019t agree with it, but he won\u2019t
    admit that in my presence...</em>\r\n\r\nI wrote: 'Actually, I think trying to
    build a type design curriculum around either book would be equally mistaken.'\r\n\r\nI
    stand by that statement. So what am I not admitting?\r\n\r\nIf I were trying to
    teach type design, I would put both <em>The Stroke</em> and <em>Letterletter</em>
    on the reading list, and I would comment on what I think is useful about each
    book. I don't think I would put Cheng's book on the list because I think it would
    be a better educational opportunity for students to make their own measurements
    and observations of typefaces, rather than reading about Cheng's measurements.\r\n\r\nFar
    from teaching chirographic type design, I think I would put the focus on scale,
    having students explore different techniques for making letterforms readable at
    different sizes. This derives from notes I made many years ago when I was researching
    different approaches to spacing (including Kindersley's). I was planning a two-part
    essay for the defunct <em>Serif</em> magazine entitled 'On the just spacing of
    letters'. The title was a reference to Durer's 'On the just shaping of letters',
    and it struck me that what the renaissance treatises on letterform construction
    and modern writing on the spacing of letters had in common was that both ignore
    the question of scale. I think it would be fruitful to put size at the centre
    of a type design curriculum."
  created: '2006-05-20 05:16:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> a better educational opportunity for students to make their own measurements\r\n\r\nBut
    that would take up too much of the class, and assume direct\r\naccess to numerous
    fonts, some of them quite expensive. This is\r\none reason Cheng's book is so
    useful.\r\n\r\n> having students explore different techniques for\r\n> making
    letterforms readable at different sizes.\r\n\r\nThat would be a superb component
    in a <cite>second</cite> class in typeface design. For an introductory class (like
    the one I teach, and those two I referenced in this thread) it's actually pretty
    hard to strike a good balance between results and ideology, guiding versus brainwashing,
    etc. in a way that students can relate to and leverage. I actually managed to
    mention optical scaling, and how size affects everything (with some specifics,
    like color) but no way did I have time to get them to actually practice it.\r\n\r\nHere's
    something informal I wrote in response\r\nto a person who asked me <cite>how</cite>
    I teach my class:\r\n\"\r\nIt's not an easy thing to wrap your head around. Especially\r\nfor
    somebody who sees problems in the two major schools,\r\nConstructivism and Chirography.
    Strangely enough I think my\r\nstrategy has been to simply scare them a bit. :-)
    To say that\r\nthe \"good way\" of making letterforms is a thorny issue, and\r\nthey'll
    have to think about it on their own a lot. Mechanically,\r\nI've advised them
    to think principally about notan, about the\r\n*boundary* of black/white, as opposed
    to merely building the\r\nblack and allowing the white to fall into place. Beyond
    that I\r\ntry to explain the necessary balance between cohesiveness\r\nand individuality
    among letterforms, I show different ways in\r\nwhich certain elements (like numerals)
    have been done and\r\nwhat the pros/cons are, all while asking them to doubt doubt\r\ndoubt,
    to take no precedent for granted, and certainly not try\r\nto make fonts the way
    I do! I have no idea if this'll work though...\r\n\"\r\n\r\nStrangely enough,
    I think my students appreciated this style.\r\nBut I'll know more when I read
    the class evaluations...\r\n\r\n> I think it would be fruitful to put size at\r\n>
    the centre of a type design curriculum.\r\n\r\nI agree, and really, I don't want
    to sound like a broken record, but by GN's\r\nown admission, the dimension of
    scale is missing from his celebrated cube.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-20 05:46:31'
- author:
    name: David Cabianca
  body: "Peter,\r\n\r\nUm, sorry to make this request in a public forum, but by any
    chance can you email me? I will be presenting at ATypI in Lisbon. My paper will
    be based on my MA Reading dissertation, \"Practicing theory: a study of Gerrit
    Noordzij, teacher\" and I was hoping to be able to discuss it with you in advance.\r\n\r\nMuch
    obliged.\r\n_\r\nDavid Cabianca, Toronto"
  created: '2006-05-20 18:13:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>But that would take up too much of the class, and assume direct\r\naccess
    to numerous fonts, some of them quite expensive.</em>\r\n\r\nYou don't need access
    to the fonts: you need access to specimen sheets, calipers and rulers.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not thinking in terms of short courses like your introduction to type design course,
    but a longer term programme. I'm not very interested in introductory classes in
    anything."
  created: '2006-05-20 18:13:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Learning the numbers in the measurements is not of so much value.  The act
    of taking the measurements and conjuring theories for differences as you take
    them, leads to thought beyond what the caliper tells you.  This is the value that
    goes beyond the time spent doing it. I would also recomend that students fight
    with drawing glyph curves--building them up by going back and forth using black
    and white paint and brush--before ever drawing glyphs with bezier curves on a
    computer.  Once you complete the struggle and learn to see what makes a curve
    work with paint, you will later make leaps in seeing curves on the computer as
    you draw them. Sure, you can more quickly draw a glyph on the computer at first
    but taking the slower route at first speeds learning later. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-22 04:02:52'
date: '2006-05-16 18:40:58'
node_type: forum
title: Best book ever

---
