---
author:
  name: jaykay109
  picture: 111351
body: "Hey folks, \r\n\r\nI just released my first typeface for sale through t26,
  <a target=\"_blank\" href=\"http://www.t26.com/fonts/display.php?f_id=935\">Bauer
  House</a>. I'm <i>somewhat</i> new to the forums here, and to some degree I wish
  that I'd attempted to absorb some of the knowledge that all of you have in advance
  of making any distribution decisions about the typeface. But, just to start, I wanted
  to know if anybody has worked with t26 / Segura Inc. before and if anyone can offer
  any useful feedback in regards to business arrangements, etc. \r\n\r\nSecondarily,
  I'd like to start a sort of sub-discussion\u2014although I'm sure this has been
  done many times over\u2014about the business of type; is there as much of a typographical
  \"elite\" as there seems to be? Is it truly impossible to achieve monetary success
  through typography? In all honesty, for me, it's not cash that I'm after, per se;
  I just wonder <i>who</i> purchases type in the greatest volumes, and whether anyone
  has any sort of insight as to how well any licensing agreements actually do work.
  Having seen the amount of font piracy on the Internet (and all of the typographic
  piracy that has existed ever since the era of Gutenberg), it's just a bit intimidating.
  More than financial reward, I just want to be able to say that I've contributed
  some quality type to the world. I'd rather see a font of mine turn up somewhere
  influential than receive a tremendoid royalty check. But on the other hand, I don't
  want to get taken advantage of...\r\n\r\nBefore I ramble on further, let's start
  some sort of loosely-integrated discussion, and maybe it'll branch off in interesting
  directions!\r\n\r\n- Josh Korwin\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
  and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
comments:
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>Is it truly impossible to achieve monetary success through typography?</em>\r\n\r\nYes."
  children:
  - author:
      name: fontplayer
      picture: 111445
    body: "Oh, you said <em>impossible</em>.\r\n\r\nIt is definitely possible. I know
      of one great success story. Not to mention all the big names do quite well,
      I'm sure.\r\n\r\nI am very sorry to have left such a wrong response sitting
      there for so long. It was nice of everyone not to get on my case."
    children:
    - author:
        name: jaykay109
        picture: 111351
      body: "Wow, sheesh! That would have been both incredibly depressing and alarmingly
        definitive. Heh.\r\n\r\nI guess as with everything, success with type might
        be a combination of raw talent and working one's derri\xE8re off. At least
        that's what I hope. \r\n\r\nTo go off on my own tangent, I think what's most
        puzzling to me is that typography seems to be stuck in such a corner. Not
        to put down the subject altogether\u2014it's definitely my favorite\u2014but
        it seems like so much of the practice and the discipline is shrouded in some
        veil of mystery. For example: you'd think that because a huge proportion of
        the world is literate, many would be interested in the letterforms of their
        respective languages. I meet far too few people who actually understand even
        the most basic typographic principles, much less those who are as drawn to
        the topic as I am. When I finally stumbled upon this forum I was so relieved.\r\n\r\nAnd
        now that so much typography is digital, why is it so darn difficult to create
        a digital font? The process is so shrouded in nearly inexplicable technical
        detail; creating a good typeface design is one thing, but creating an effective
        font is far more difficult. I don't know where the root of this limitation
        lies, but it seems so unnecessary. Or maybe I'm na\xEFve.\r\n\r\nI'll tie
        it all back to the original topic: I'm kind of concerned about the fact that
        I will have to make back a few hundred dollars worth of royalties in order
        to just break even. This is because when I created Bauer House, it seemed
        like it was working just fine on my machine, but t26 said that there were
        hours and hours worth of errors that needed correcting. So, I paid them out
        of pocket in advance to have these errors ironed out. Even after comparing
        their revision to my last draft, I am unable to figure out exactly what was
        changed. \r\n\r\nI kind of wish there was some way I could find out exactly
        <i>how</i> to properly create perfect digital typefaces, so that I would not
        have to spend actual money to have these errors fixed by one apparently more
        enlightened than myself...\r\n\r\n[ end bitching session ]\r\n\r\n- Josh (reminding
        himself to read his own sig)\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
        and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
      created: '2006-05-17 05:09:25'
    created: '2006-05-17 04:04:01'
  created: '2006-05-17 01:47:56'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "You may have been better served to post their critique and ask around how
    to perform the fixes yourself . . .\r\n\r\nStuart :D"
  children:
  - author:
      name: jaykay109
      picture: 111351
    body: "I think I'll do that anyway\u2014I might as well learn, because I'm already
      in the middle of designing a handful of new faces.\r\n\r\nPerhaps it would be
      better on a new thread though? This one's not getting too much attention...\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
      and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
    created: '2006-05-17 15:40:19'
  created: '2006-05-17 15:11:29'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: yes, there is a section just for critique. Some responses are amazingly detailed.
    Post each font in a seperate thread in the section that corrosponds to the style.
  created: '2006-05-17 15:43:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Joshua, the only real money (and not gobs\r\nof it) is in custom commissions,
    not retail.\r\nBut there are good things about retail too.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: jaykay109
      picture: 111351
    body: "That makes plenty of sense. Without asking too vague and foolish a question,
      how does one get custom commissions? Maybe I should rephrase: I have a fairly
      steady stream of design work, but the types of clients that I get are unfortunately
      mostly not the types of clients that would ever consider doing custom type.
      What I need to learn, strategy-wise, is either how to sell custom type to the
      design-blind, or how to get design clients who are more sophisticated.\r\n\r\nHow
      do the big kids do this? Non-stop self-promotion? Agencies? \r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
      and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
    created: '2006-05-17 16:02:44'
  created: '2006-05-17 15:52:32'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Retail can be lucrative if you are prolific *and* good.
  created: '2006-05-17 16:30:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Indeed, I should qualify what I wrote - and not by appending \"Not really.\"
    \ :-)\r\nIf you have strong talents and skills in display face design (like Nick
    Shinn) you\r\ncan indeed make good money in retail. But few people (certainly
    not me) have\r\nthat level of experience and talent.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-17 17:11:40'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "I imagine with all his \"cute\" script designs that Rob Leushke is doing
    OK, although I have nothing to back that up, other than comparisons to things
    I know regarding others. I'll bet Storm is doing OK too.\r\n\r\nYou might check
    Veer out too. And myfonts.com contract is very fair. Just about everyone markets
    something through them these days. It is helpful to have your own website to refer
    visitors to the vendor's site. And get a foundry name so you can start building
    a reputation. Even if it is something simple like JK Type or Korwin Type.\r\n\r\nA
    good teacher/mentor can certainly be helpful. Most of the biographies I see usually
    point to some person that took them under their wing, or taught them the ropes.\r\n\r\nKeep
    in mind all this comes from someone on the outside looking in, but priviledged
    to some information here and there."
  created: '2006-05-17 20:58:09'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "A couple names for type companies that occurred to me:\r\n\r\nTypecaster
    Fonts (play on words....get it?)\r\n; )\r\nFont Brewery (ties fonts and beer together.
    what more do you want?)\r\n\r\nFeel free to use if they aren't already taken."
  created: '2006-05-17 23:00:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Font Brewery (ties fonts and beer together. what more do you want?)\r\n\r\nWhy
    do you think I chose The MicroFoundry?  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-17 23:26:52'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>If you have strong talents and skills in display face design (like Nick
    Shinn) you\r\ncan indeed make good money in retail. </em>\r\n\r\nWhile it's true
    that it's generally easier to make money doing display faces (note that I said
    \"easier,\" not \"easy\"), it doesn't mean there is no money in text fonts. There
    are independent font designers who specialize in doing text fonts and are doing
    well with it. \r\n\r\nMaking any kind of retail font is something of a gamble.
    It may sell well, it may not sell at all. With a display font, you're risking
    some time and effort. With a big text and display family, you're risking a lot
    of time and effort, but the payoff can also be greater than with a display font.
    It takes a lot of successful display fonts to equal one successful font family.
    (Display fonts are more fun to do, though. :-)\r\n\r\nRegarding custom fonts:
    Yes, it is a more reliable source of income for a lot of professional font designers.
    But, it's like any other freelance creative work: The client sets the schedule
    and controls the creative direction. I worked as a freelance designer and illustrator
    for years, so I am very familiar and comfortable with this arrangement. But when
    I started having some success at selling retail fonts, I realized something about
    it: No client. Nothing against clients, but I found out that I really like working
    on my own schedule and having complete creative control, something I never really
    had before. If you can manage to get lucky sometimes and can live with the possibility
    that you may be completely wasting your time, doing retail fonts does have its
    pluses."
  created: '2006-05-18 05:00:07'
- author:
    name: formgebung
  body: "Mark, I'm completely with you on that. I'm a designer of custom types for
    more than a decade now. Right now I'm preparing my own online foundry (yes another
    one ;-) because I want to be slightly more independent from my client relationships.
    Also retail pays even when you're enjoying your holidays.\r\n\r\nDennis, I just
    checked the dotcom-domains. Typecaster is booked already (domain dealer). Typecast,
    fontcaster, fontcast as well. It's not THAT easy anymore.\r\n\r\nH."
  created: '2006-05-18 08:51:24'
- author:
    name: jonbruns
    picture: 111345
  body: "Josh,\r\nHow did you go about submitting your typeface to T-26? I am interested
    in submitted some designs. Did you complete the design and generate the font to
    submit it to T-26 or Did you just send in a preview of the character set? I assume
    you communicated via email? Were they quick to get back to you?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: jaykay109
      picture: 111351
    body: "Jon,\r\n\r\nI first generated a graphic to show off the typeface itself,
      which I will attach to this post. They wrote back a few days later and let me
      know that they were interested in the font and would like to see a PDF sheet
      of all the characters, since T26 has a minimum character set that they require
      for all typefaces. I was not yet done with the font, so I let them know that
      I would work as quickly as I could to generate it and that I would send it soon.
      I finished up the font (or so I thought) and sent them a character sheet in
      PDF format. Then I was told that I would have a much better chance of selling
      the font if it contained a lower case as well. I had originally designed it
      to only be used for upper case titling, and I had included a very small caps
      weight to be used as a companion (instead of a lower case). Following their
      advice, though, I created a lower case, finished up the complete T26 character
      set, and attached that, along with some samples of the typeface in use, to the
      email. Eventually they said that it was good to go and that I should give them
      the files that I generated along with the master files. I then got into the
      long process of discussing whether or not my font could be distributed solely
      as OpenType. This lasted a few weeks. Eventually they said it was possible,
      so I gave them the files, and they reviewed them. They got back to me 10 days
      later and gave me the list of repairs that needed to be made, and gave me the
      quote for the fee. I questioned it, and they told me that it was something that
      I <em>should</em> do if I am concerned at all with the quality of the typefaces
      that I produce. I decided to pay for them to make the fixes. 20 days later,
      after prodding, I was given the typeface in its repaired form, and it was posted
      online a few days thereafter.\r\n\r\nTheir initial response to my first sketch
      was on 2/4/2006, and the typeface was posted on 5/15/2006, I think. So the whole
      thing took a while, partially because I hadn't completed the typeface in advance,
      but mostly because they took forever to get back to me, most of the time. Usually
      I would have to send multiple emails to have questions or concerns answered.
      They had even fixed the font and told me it was going to be posted soon <em>in
      advance of signing a contract with me</em>. I emailed them immediately to let
      them know that I would like to a) see the font first, and b) sign an actual
      contract before they went about selling the font on their site. They complied
      after that, but I was a bit shaken up by the fact that I had to tell them to
      do this. I felt silly at that point having given them the full files before
      having a signed contract.\r\n\r\nI hope this helps!\r\n\r\n- Josh\r\n\r\n------------\r\n<strong>EDIT</strong>\r\nSeems
      I cannot attach images to posts anymore?\r\nAnyway, here are the graphics I
      referred to:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.threestepsahead.com/temp/specimen_01.jpg\r\n\r\nhttp://www.threestepsahead.com/temp/specimen_02.jpg\r\n\r\nhttp://www.threestepsahead.com/temp/specimen_03.gif\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
      and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
    children:
    - author:
        name: tamye
        picture: 110562
      body: "Josh, congratulations on your typeface. It's a great achievement to have
        a font in release, and I hope it sells well for you.\r\n\r\n<em>Their initial
        response to my first sketch was on 2/4/2006, and the typeface was posted on
        5/15/2006, I think.</em>\r\n\r\nI agree with Dan - the release of your font
        was quite speedy, especially for a large foundry.\r\n\r\nT-26 gave you some
        good marketing-related advice. Fonts really do sell better with a lowercase,
        even when they are originally intended for titling. And while OpenType is
        rapidly gaining acceptance, PS and TT are still very much in demand. Many
        designers and foundries are offering all 3 formats, as OT-only can be a tough
        sell.\r\n\r\nI can't comment on the quality or technical problems that your
        font might have had initially. I do know that 90% of fonts submitted to most
        foundries require quite a bit of work to get them ready for market. Some submitted
        fonts have severe technical issues that take many hours to repair.\r\n\r\nAs
        long as you are dealing with a reputable foundry, it's OK to send font files
        for review purposes. They need to be able to take a close look under the hood
        before deciding whether or not to publish your font.\r\n\r\nI know it can
        be frustrating when communication isn't what you hoped for. You did the right
        thing by keeping on top of it. It's your font, and you care the most about
        it. The fact that it was released so quickly means your efforts paid off.\r\n\r\nNext
        time should be easier - good luck!"
      children:
      - author:
          name: jaykay109
          picture: 111351
        body: "Tamye,\r\n\r\nThanks for your kind words! Much appreciated. I really
          love this forum, everyone's so nice.\r\n\r\nI think all of T-26's advice
          was pretty good for the most part. Their business practices on the whole
          seem pretty good, and I think I'm mostly just a) nitpicking a bit, and b)
          being a bit uptight about things because this is my first experience with
          font retail. Having had so many problems in the past dealing with unscrupulous
          folks in the course of doing design business, I'm mostly just looking to
          ask more questions and be more wary of what I do. This seemed like the best
          place to discuss all of that, and I'm glad I did. Honestly, the few things
          that I had concerns about were <em>far</em> less of a big deal than some
          of the problems I've had in running my own business, so I'd definitely like
          to keep that in context. :)\r\n\r\n- Josh\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
          and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
        created: '2006-05-19 05:09:45'
      created: '2006-05-18 23:00:26'
    created: '2006-05-18 16:00:49'
  created: '2006-05-18 15:31:46'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>Their initial response to my first sketch was on 2/4/2006, and the typeface
    was posted on 5/15/2006</em>\r\n\r\nThat sounds quite quick for our industry,
    actually. Sorry if this sounds disappointing!"
  children:
  - author:
      name: jaykay109
      picture: 111351
    body: "<cite>That sounds quite quick for our industry, actually. Sorry if this
      sounds disappointing!</cite>\r\n\r\nHehe. Not disappointing, really. It seems
      like most things in life take forever. The overall time involved wasn't such
      a big deal to me, honestly, since I wanted each step to be done carefully and
      deliberately. My only complaint was having to communicate redundantly (send
      reminder emails) in order to receive a response. I felt like, if I wasn't keeping
      up on things, they would never get done.\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
      and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
    created: '2006-05-18 17:23:39'
  created: '2006-05-18 17:10:28'
- author:
    name: jonbruns
    picture: 111345
  body: "Josh,\r\nThanks for the info. And Congrats! Bauer House looks great! I will
    have to go buy it! I emailed t-26 (info@t26.com) a while ago inquiring about submission,
    and I heard back quite quickly. From Carlos Segura no less! Or at least from his
    email account. Another person over there emailed me a few days later asking if
    i had any typeface designs to submit. I still have quite a bit of tweaks and fine-tuning
    to do though. I am sure that they will have technical difficulties if they ever
    go for one of my designs. Do you work in FontLab?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: jaykay109
      picture: 111351
    body: "Wow, thanks Jon! That'd be splendid. Heck, I'd be thrilled even if only
      you bought it. That's enough validation for me to feel like the whole thing
      is more than worthwhile. Hopefully more folks feel that way, though. ;)\r\n\r\nYup,
      I mostly dealt with Carlos Segura for the creative portion of the discussion,
      but I was referred to other staff members for matters such as the contract and
      other technical stuff. Mr. Segura seems to be the one who had approved of the
      typeface in the first place. Everyone there is pretty friendly. The only real
      issue I had was that I had to keep up on things myself\u2014and act a bit of
      a pest in the process\u2014in order to catalyze progress. In general, though,
      as Tamye had said, it really does pay to be proactive, especially when dealing
      with something that one has such a vested interest in.\r\n\r\nWith regards to
      software, so far I don't think I've really perfected my workflow. And I think
      this is something that contributed to me not knowing exactly how to best tweak
      the font before its final submission. I draw all of my glyphs in Illustrator
      (since I'm very comfortable with the interface) and then import them into FontLab
      piece by piece. The first issue that I initially came across was realizing that
      fonts still need to have some sense of scale, even though they are vector curves.
      Just by happenstance, the size of the glyphs I drew in Illustrator was something
      like three or four times the size of the \"default\" greyed-out characters in
      the FontLab table. So when I realized what the conversion ratio was, I applied
      the same scale percentage to each glyph before exporting each one to EPS and
      dropping it into FontLab. The whole thing seemed really clumsy and inefficient
      to me, and I feel like a complete n00b admitting to it now (but hopefully someone
      will drop some hints as to what I should do in the future). From that point,
      once all the glyphs were in FontLab, I did my tweaks and such within that program
      to save time and energy. I'm actually working on a new typeface now based on
      Bauer House but with a much more sleek, geometric feel, and multiple weights.
      I know, though, that I'm going to run into the same scale issue, because I based
      this new one off of the same Illustrator file that I used to draw Bauer House.
      [If anybody else knows of a better way for me to work, I'm open for suggestions!]\r\n\r\nAnywho,
      thanks again for the encouragement! I hope I'm of some help too. We're all in
      this together, typophiles.\r\n\r\n- Josh\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
      and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
    created: '2006-05-19 05:26:31'
  created: '2006-05-19 02:54:28'
- author:
    name: jonbruns
    picture: 111345
  body: "THats funny. I do the same thing creating typefaces. I create them all in
    Illustrator. Then increase the size 400% or whatever, to import into FontLab.
    There is some way of importing the individual glyphs so they are 100% (ie no scaling).
    Here is the link:\r\nhttp://groups.msn.com/fontlab/tipsandtricks.msnw action=get_message&mview=0&ID_Message=2675\r\nI
    think scaling is easier. But I am by no means an expert."
  created: '2006-05-19 20:52:51'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I just wanted to mention that the thing that surprised me most was the tiny
    amounts of time they said some of these tasks would take. Sure, some things are
    quick, like fixing name table entries for a single font (not part of a bigger
    family). But others, like fixing kerning, are typically tasks of (at least) many
    hours, even for a 200-glyph font.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-05-20 03:03:24'
- author:
    name: jaykay109
    picture: 111351
  body: "I actually thought that was fairly suprising, too, Thomas. That's why I thought,
    \"What am I missing? What don't I know?\" Because for some of the smaller fixes,
    I felt like someone could just say \"hey, check this box instead of this box\"
    and I'd just be able to do it myself. The \"task list\" was mostly non-specific,
    so while they named the category of error, I really didn't know precisely what
    about my version wasn't correct.\r\n\r\nThat's part of what made me feel a little
    bleh about the whole thing. If it's all the same to them, I could have been told
    roughly what the errors were, and it would have saved them the trouble of having
    to worry about it. Instead it seemed like they definitely wanted the business,
    and that it was in their best interest to have the billable hours. So while I
    don't necessarily think I was ripped off, per se, I think that they may see the
    technical repair part of their business as being another viable source of income
    in addition to the resale of fonts.\r\n\r\n(Side note: I'd spent a lot of time
    on the kerning myself before giving them the files, so maybe only a few characters
    required touching up in their eyes. Perhaps that has something to do with that
    particular thing.)\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
    and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
  created: '2006-05-20 04:53:29'
- author:
    name: Jill Bell
    picture: 109751
  body: "Josh,\r\n\r\nI would suspect that telling you what or how to fix things may
    take longer than just fixing the things themselves. If you were their child (employee),
    it would be worth while to teach you to tie your own shoes laces. But if it's
    someone else's kid it's better to just tie it and keep the kid from tripping and
    falling on it's face than to try and explain.\r\n\r\nSelling a font can pay off
    tremendously. Or not. You can't tell which will catch on (think Remedy) and make
    you a fortune, or fall away and be forgotten (and perhaps have been your favorite
    and biggest labor). You may be the next Emigre, House, P-22. Or just be disillusioned
    after one font and quit.  \r\n\r\nBut I wouldn't even bother with \"you\u2019d
    think that because a huge proportion of the world is literate, many would be interested
    in the letterforms of their respective languages.\" That's like saying because
    a huge proportion of the world has sewage systems, people should be more interested
    in plumbing. To the majority of type users pecking away on their computers type
    is just a means to an end. Just like plumbing is to me. The amount of people who
    have a greater interest than \"copper, lead, or PCB ?\" are few and far between.
    Just make it flush, please. \r\n\r\nYou'd better love it! \r\n\r\nWhether you
    make money at it or not will greatly depend on how good a business person you
    are, how much you worship Mammon, how great your perserverance is (at learning
    the software for instance) and continuing to develop the other aspects of your
    craft. And maybe even how big your ego-fulfillment needs factor in  (anyone who
    speaks at every conference going and always has to be heard or seen probably has
    this paradigm). I know talent DOES figure in there somewhere, but I hate to say
    it that the other things can be just as important, or even more important, for
    Success.  \r\n\r\nThe business/art isn't 'shrouded' in secrecy or obscurity. I
    have yet to learn anything about Python scripting (and I'd really like to) or
    any number of the more techie things about fonts, but that's just because other
    things have distracted me, my time and attention. You'll figure it all out if
    you just stick with it. Programming is not my thing so it's probably always going
    to seem a bit alchemical.\r\n\r\nThe typographical \"elite\" is a funny concept.
    There are people who have been at it at a long time and/or are very accomplished.
    We all have our heros. Because typography is really such a small niche in graphic
    design (which is a small niche of design, art, advertising, manufacturing, etc).,
    it is actually very easy to access them, to speak with Carlos Segura, or Matthew
    Carter, or even Robert Slimbach (which was a little like playing hide and seek).
    It ain't rock n' roll.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I don't think designing type is a great
    way to plan to earn a living in and of itself, because the market is incredibly
    flooded by fonts, good and bad (mostly bad, amateurish fonts made by people who
    know little about letters), and will only become more so and this devalues them
    in general as well. Of course the market is also broader which helps, but probably
    primarily at the lower levels. It just has to be taking work and income away from
    better type designers that there are so many of them, although most of the great
    ones that I know are pedaling as fast as they can to stay ahead in various ways.
    The greater number of bad fonts would actually provide hope and a market for the
    good faces if it weren't that aspiring designers in schools are taught less and
    less about good typography and can't tell the difference, I'm convinced. Some
    just want to break the rules.\r\n\r\nMost  of the BIG successful new foundaries
    really broke loose, got in the door, with the initial explosion of digital type.
    I don't think it will be as easy for subsequent type designers to get so big as
    easy....unless another technology comes along. That always changes everything.\r\n\r\nSince
    I'm on a rant, I also think we'll see further flooding of fonts coming from other
    countries, sold on the internet without the customer even knowing who or where
    they are buying from. Globalization.  South America is on track and producing
    some great stuff. But how about when China or other places with much lower standards
    of living start producing original fonts, where $1 a font would look like a fortune
    and would be a day's or a week's income? (and where they are really into pirating
    without scruples?). Don't think they don't get Roman (or any other type of) letters:
    Akira Kobayashi is an ace (and is fortunately in Linotype's hand). We can't see
    what is actually coming in 5, 10 or 20 years but it doesn't hurt to try. After
    all, that's what you are looking at isn't it? \r\n\r\nIf you have enough drive,
    business sense, desire for money, perserverance, talent...and the love of letters
    (or a large amount of two or three of them), you should be able to find success
    on your own terms. \r\n\r\nAnd if you have all of them, I want to work for you!\r\n\r\nJill"
  created: '2006-05-20 23:24:41'
- author:
    name: jaykay109
    picture: 111351
  body: "Wow, Jill, thank you for that. I actually was hoping folks would post some
    rather spirited stuff, and yours was particularly helpful. I'm hoping I have \"all
    of them\"\u2014and it would then be an honor to have you in my employ.\r\n\r\nSecondly,
    I posted on another one of my threads in regards to an idea; someone had pointed
    out that there might be some hinting problems with the typeface and I wanted to
    see if I could find an independent expert who would be willing to take a look
    at the font, if only to examine whether or not there were vast improvements made
    to it by T-26. I'd really like to perfect this typeface, because it means a lot
    to me, and with tweaking I think it can be better than it already is (at least
    on screen). \r\n\r\nThirdly, I found in my contract that I'm actually still allowed
    to sell the typeface myself as long as I'm selling to end users only. This is
    good news. I could then put a little PayPal thing on my website and have a way
    to sell the font to those who want to buy it directly from the guy who made it.
    I could sell it at the same price and I wouldn't have to forfeit any of the proceeds.
    Then, T-26's value will be in selling the font to those who would not ordinarily
    see it on my site or otherwise. So I think I'm going to do that soon if anybody's
    interested.\r\n\r\n- Josh\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
    and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
  children:
  - author:
      name: ginajane
      picture: 111607
    body: "\r\nI am in search of font and type face creators who would like to sell
      their finished type faces and fonts to the end users- under the Angel Policy
      at my online Digital Art Images, Scrapbook Inspirations, Etcetera  consignment
      store. \r\n\r\nWe offer a high percentage of the gross sales to our designers/
      artists.  Our contract is very lenient. We do not require exclusivity. \r\nWe
      have a need for fonts and alphabets for the digital download paper craft and
      scrapbook industry.\r\n\r\nI would be thrilled to offer fonts and type faces
      online. It may generate a little bit of mad money for you.  I am an artist and
      not a font designer. So far, I 've enjoyed the freedom of selling my art work
      myself and have broken away from my licensing agreemnts. I am very happy to
      say that the new found freedom has inspired new creativity. \r\n\r\nWe can get
      your product online within 2 weeks.  We can't fix your fonts, but if you have
      a font that is user friendly- and a limited key board:  A-Z, 0-9, !@#?~{}...
      it is good enough.\r\n\r\nRonna Penner has had some success selling her fonts
      at Scrapbook-Elements. The fonts she offers at MyFonts.com are the expanded
      versions. Under her agreement with MyFonts.com she can also sell her scaled
      down versions at Scrapbook sites online.\r\n\r\nI am hopeful that some of you
      will be interested in offering your work at my store:  http://daisiecompany.com\r\n\r\n\r\n***
      gina jane ***\r\n\r\n'relationships are the greatest art'"
    created: '2006-05-23 02:09:27'
  created: '2006-05-21 15:07:24'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I thought MyFonts was usually non-exclusive - most of the content there is
    available elsewhere as well.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-05-26 08:35:58'
- author:
    name: ginajane
    picture: 111607
  body: "\r\n\r\nThomas Phinney:\r\n\"I thought MyFonts was usually non-exclusive
    - most of the content there is available elsewhere as well.\"\r\n\r\nThis is something
    I haven't asked Ronna about. This information - mis-information- was passed to
    me by the site owners at Scrapbook-Elements. I am learning that much of their
    information was inaccurate.\r\n\r\nThanks for the heads up. I'll check into it.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n***
    gina jane ***\r\n\r\n'relationships are the greatest art'"
  created: '2006-05-27 02:44:33'
date: '2006-05-16 18:04:57'
node_type: forum
title: Has anyone worked with t26?

---
