---
author:
  name: dux
  picture: 110146
body: "So, I went to a talk in London recently by the diminutive italian Massimo Vignelli
  and his lovely wife Lella. I'm by no means a modernist in the vignelli sense, but
  nonetheless enjoy some of their furniture and product design. I've never been the
  biggest fan of his graphic design -- it always feels a bit sterile -- like the humanity
  has been intentionally stripped away. It could be argued that this is a necessary
  part of facilitating clear communication -- something I don't agree with however.
  \r\n\r\nSo Vignelli says that all we need as typographic designers are 6 typefaces,
  and no more. I got a little offended by this, and felt that he, well, missed the
  point of variety in type design. I find this quasi-utilitarian position a little
  strange. One typeface could theoretically function suitably (ie we could read it),
  but 6 is apparently the precise number that will cover the gamut of human emotion
  in the present, and oddly, in the future too. He claims to detest 'sameness' in
  design, but he contradicts his own polemic when his typographic designs are the
  very epitomy of this. They all borrow from a specific and unchanging box of modernist
  visual language. Heavy horizontal bars, grotesk types, a blind allegiance to the
  grid etc etc. It's not even as if he is using these 6 typefaces in a variety of
  ways either. Furthermore, despite hundreds of years of type design, he finds it
  suitable to include one of his own creations -- our bodoni -- in this elite club.
  I just don't get it. \r\n\r\nRant over."
comments:
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Does he only need 6 songs? 6 books? 6 meals? - Well, you know what they say,
    "Six is the spice of life." or something like that.
  created: '2006-05-16 16:03:06'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Well of course he sees his own typeface as one of only six that should ever
    be used by anyone. All demagogues tend to act like this\u2026\r\n\r\n(Even Paul
    Renner, late in his life, said that Futura was one of about four varieties of
    type that every printer should keep in stock\u2026)."
  created: '2006-05-16 16:08:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My family and I occasionally attend \"International Fairs\" where food from
    many countries are sold to raise money for charities.  When you ask anyone behind
    the tables what the best dish to choose might be, it comes as no surprise that
    their own is most often mentioned :-)\r\n\r\nNow if Massimo were to have only
    my fonts to his list, he may be on the right track :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-16 16:13:40'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: We did a long <a href="http://typophile.com/node/14904">Vignelli rant </a>
    last summer.
  created: '2006-05-16 16:16:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I bash Vignelli every chance I get.\r\nOh, and his font sucks too.\r\n\r\n>
    it always feels a bit sterile\r\n\r\nHuh, I wonder why.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-16 16:35:38'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>Oh, and his font sucks too.</em>\r\n\r\nAww, it ain't that bad\u2026
    its just display only font (but I don't think he has realized that yet)."
  created: '2006-05-16 16:56:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I just thought of a great t-shirt:\r\n\"Your favorite type designer sucks.\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-16 16:58:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Bouma-lacka, \"Bouma-lacka, \"Bouma-lacka, Boum, Boum, Boum\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-16 17:14:45'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Far as I can tell he only uses two: Bodoni and Helvetica (plus his own I
    guess). Which is why his designs all look exactly the same. And totally dated.\r\n\r\nI
    do agree that the current plethora of fonts is a double-edged sword. I had a boss
    early in my career who was of Vignelli's generation and he used to force us to
    use one typeface per design as an exercise. I still hear his voice in my head
    when I find myself throwing more fonts at a design rather than really trying to
    solve the design problem.\r\n\r\nBack to Vignelli it's his disrespect for white
    space that I have the biggest problem with."
  created: '2006-05-16 17:16:16'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: his font's not bad -- i even quite liked it once. it's just the arrogant assumption
    that his way is the right and only way that bothers. i don't have a problem with
    people going down their own paths, but let's just accept there are other paths.
    the bumping all x-heights up was a particularly funny, and sweeping comment. as
    hrant noted, the total blindness to future possibilities is something unacceptably
    closed-minded for a designer.
  created: '2006-05-16 17:22:30'
- author:
    name: BrooklynRob
    picture: 110975
  body: "I think designers with dogmatic manifestos are charming, even when I don't
    agree with them. Kind of like the eccentric uncle who adds spice to every family
    reunion. It's part of what makes the world of design and art fascinating. I wouldn't
    want to live in a primary-colored world, but Mondrian and the DeStijl crowd nevertheless
    had a cool new way of expressing themselves. \r\n\r\nWhile Vignelli's work operates
    within a consistent vocabulary, I don't agree that it looks dated. In fact, when
    you go through design history books, his designs from the 1950s and 60s look startlingly
    contemporary, which can't be said about much from that period.\r\n\r\n(Also --
    why refer to him as \"diminutive?\" Does his physical stature have any relevance?
    Would you point out that someone else was fat or bald? What matters?)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-16 18:31:43'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I'm referring mostly to his book design (which is what I'm most familiar with)
    when I say it looks dated.
  created: '2006-05-16 18:54:07'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Very much UNLIKE problem solving methodologies of Bucky Fuller, Mr. Vignelli
    adheres close to what he feels are \"classic proportions\"... like those who retrict
    themselves to Golden Section.\r\n\r\nBasically, WTC Our Bodoni is based directly
    on Helvetica:\r\n\r\n<em>We consider the ratio between upper- and lower-case Helvetica
    letters to be the best there is. We wanted to redesign Bodoni using a similar
    ratio between the cases, with short ascenders and descenders</em> -- Massimo Vignelli"
  created: '2006-05-16 18:55:25'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Oh Bucky Fuller! Whoever doesn't have "I Seem to Be a Verb" should buy it.
    Long out of print but available sometimes used at Amazon. Such a great little
    book!
  created: '2006-05-16 19:16:27'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"We consider the ratio between upper- and lower-case Helvetica letters to
    be the best there is.\"\r\n\r\nHA HA!\r\n\r\nI suppose that is the Royal We. \r\n\r\nConsider
    that Vignelli's career bloomed in one of the most miserable periods in typography. "
  created: '2006-05-16 19:22:29'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Maybe that's why it was a miserable period.
  created: '2006-05-16 19:25:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't think the period was miserable at all.  Massimo's typography hardly
    represents \"The Period\" anyway.  The period also had diversity like Herb Lubaln
    Symor Chwast vs. Emil Ruder and Muller-Brockman. Throw in Ben Shawn, Rudy DeHarek,
    Saul Bass, Paul Rand and countless others and tell me how miserable this period
    was.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-16 19:39:25'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: 'There''s no such thing as bad publicity. There is bad typography, however. '
  created: '2006-05-16 19:46:24'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nI don't say that there were no good graphic designers then.
    I'm referring to the degradation that type manufacturing processes brought to
    typographic practice. Phototype for setting books in the 70's seems like a bad
    dream now. The absence of size-specific designs, new, klunky typesetting technology,
    the limitations to character sets, badly-converted \"classics\", all contributed
    to a measly palette for designers to work with. Vignelli wisely constrained himself
    well within this limited range. But his attitude now is simply eccentric and ossified.
    His comment about Helvetica's proportions also indicates his focus on display
    typography. \r\n\r\nI also have similar queasy feelings about some of the designers
    you mention. It isn't necessarily their work or their impulses. The modernism
    bug was still going around, mutating and breeding with the Art Deco and Art Nouveau
    bugs, and I can't make myself like it. I suppose it was a trend, like everything.\r\n\r\nI
    also don't say we have oodles of terrific graphic designers now, compared to then.
    Though there's a wealth of well-made type now, very few people operating as graphic
    designers actually understand how to use it. I imagine Shahn, Rand, et al could
    run circles around newer designers in their understanding of how type works. \r\n\r\n\"If
    youth but knew, and age but could\""
  created: '2006-05-16 20:00:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...There is bad typography, however.\"\r\n\r\nThere always was, there is
    now, and there always will be.  The only difference is that the older bad stuff
    gets trashed but todays greets us daily.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-16 20:28:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> his focus on display typography.\r\n\r\nOr just display.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-16 20:49:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "His focus was on system design as opposed to one-at-a-time stuff. nobody
    ever called him a typographer.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-16 20:50:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hopefully we can also stop calling him a designer.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-16 20:53:10'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Maybe a persona designer. Provacative statements work really well for that.
  created: '2006-05-16 21:13:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"it always feels a bit sterile \u2014 like the humanity has been intentionally
    stripped away\"\r\n\r\nIsn't that, by definition, \"the European Modern Style\"?"
  created: '2006-05-16 21:43:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "He is a designer.  You don't have to like his stuff and I am not saying you
    should but he is a designer anyway. \r\nI guess our biannual Vignelli bashing
    is again in full swing. Taking potshots is so easy and so useless.  Maybe we should
    just make an MPEG of the worst Massimo bashing imaginable and sell the downloads
    with all proceeds going to charity.  That would at least give it some value.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-16 22:14:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Art directors, in any era, like to experiment with different typefaces.\r\nGraphic
    designers tend to restrict their choice.\r\nThis was particularly so in Vignelli's
    heyday."
  created: '2006-05-16 22:18:40'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Short of typeface selection -- which I don't altogether agree with -- I believe
    that Vignelli's use of the grid is on par with some of the best. I think bashing
    his work is a waste of time. If you don't have anything nice to say ...\r\n\r\nLook
    at the work. If you don't think it offers anything to you, move on. Save the energy
    for something constructive.\r\n\r\nThe <a href=\"http://www.unicahome.com/p5699/colorstone-by-vignelli-asssociates-30-off.html\">dishes</a>
    designed by Vignelli Associates are still among my favorite."
  children:
  - author:
      name: tomdonahue
    body: ">Vignelli\u2019s use of the grid \r\n\r\nI happen to work for an architecture
      magazine that he (or his office) designed, and we use his Bodoni for everything.
      Personally it's by far the most beautiful design I've ever had anything to do
      with, and I think the type works very well.\r\nThe photos are so spectacular
      that the type really needs presence to keep from being overwhelmed. Note this
      is text, not just display. Two solid columns opposite a full page photo of some
      spectacular building, say the OMA library in Seattle. Both sides are beautiful.
      If you like you can even read it :)."
    created: '2006-05-17 00:22:03'
  created: '2006-05-17 00:07:49'
- author:
    name: v-six
    picture: 111502
  body: At least he picked a good number  :)
  created: '2006-05-17 00:12:09'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "v-six> heheheeh very cute.\r\n\r\nHas Vignelli designed anything else (publicly
    purchasable) besides Our Bodoni?\r\n\r\n\r\nMikey\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-17 00:22:32'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>Has Vignelli designed anything else (publicly purchasable) besides
    Our Bodoni?</em>\r\n\r\nI wouldn't say that Vignelli <em>actually designed</em>
    <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/agfa/atour-bodoni/\" target=\"new\">WTC
    Our Bodoni</a>, more like brooded over it, which must have drove [[Tom Carnase]]
    mad during the development.\r\n\r\nOriginally Vignelli was to \"help\" guide development
    for other \"WTC Our ___\" type families -- Our Century, Our Garamond, but I can't
    remember if they were ever released.\r\n\r\nBasically, having Massimo Vignelli's
    \"endorsement\" and \"typographic guidance\" was Bert Di Pamphilis' marketing
    attempt to boost the image of the World Typeface Corporation, which was trying
    to gain marketshare from ITC. No small task, as history laid WTC to dust ... come
    to think of it, where is ITC these days? ;-)"
  created: '2006-05-17 05:08:22'
- author:
    name: negativespace
    picture: 109845
  body: "I don't agree with his views on typefaces for the most part but I really
    enjoy and think highly of much of his work, as I do about other modernist works
    before and of that time period. I definitely agree with Tiffany regarding Vignelli's
    use of the grid.\r\n\r\nI try to approach his views on typeface selection in a
    not so dogmatic way, rather I try to take from it the importance of knowing a
    few select type-families really in depth and learning to use them well. I think
    sometimes it can take some time to warm up to and learn to use a typeface beautifully.
    So I try not to see it as 6 being some sort of magic number, or the 6 he chooses,
    but more so about being able to use some of the 'few' well designed typefaces
    effectively (not that I think there is only a few, but the number is small in
    the grand scheme of all the badly designed ones imo). I still think taking the
    time to choose the most appropriate typeface is really important  as well.\r\n\r\nLast
    fall I had the pleasure of meeting Mr. Vignelli while he was in Toronto; picked
    him up from where he was speaking to take him to our school. During the ride we
    talked about typefaces and I had explained that I was interested in designing
    my own typefaces and asked him if he thought new typefaces should be designed
    to accomodate new mediums or to improve functionality in existing mediums/applications
    rather than just modifying the old types to work. To my suprise he supported the
    idea of a new typefaces providing that its improvement over the old was significant.
    This was good to hear but I suppose this also puts forth the question of how you
    measure the functional aspects of one typeface over the other, not always so easy;
    it could very well become a subjective decision resulting in Helvetica again.
    Nevertheless, it was a really fun and inspiring talk that he gave to us!"
  created: '2006-05-17 05:12:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I don't know much about Vignelli's graphic design work, and in general I'm
    not terribly interested in graphic design. But I don't have a problem with someone
    saying that he believes only six typefaces are necessary. In order to be even
    internally consistent, the statement presumes the context of a particular kind
    of design -- presumably the kind Vignelli practices and advocates -- since it
    is easy enough to conceive of a kind of design that would require seven typefaces,
    and another that requires eight typefaces...\r\n\r\nThere is a very find book
    designer and publisher in Germany, whose work I have admired, who has used only
    the Janson for many years. If he were to tell me that only one typeface is necessary,
    I wouldn't argue with him, since he has demonstrated this to be true in the kind
    of design he practices.\r\n\r\nThere is an aspect of Vignelli's statement that
    I find quite refreshing: it suggests that he views typefaces as tools to be used
    in design, rather than considering the design of the typeface to become integral
    to the design. This is a legitimate view, usually indicating an understanding
    of design focused on spacial arrangement rather than stylistic evocation. Often,
    a distinctive typeface is used as a kind of stylistic shortcut by lazy designers.
    Limiting the typographic palette forces one to work harder at other aspects of
    design."
  created: '2006-05-17 05:31:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Limiting the typographic palette forces one to work harder at other aspects
    of design.\r\n\r\nThat may be a useful educational exercise, but as a general
    principle it seems to me to put an ideology ahead of the needs of the text. It
    seems to me that graphic design should communicate the text in the most effective
    way possible, where that 'effectiveness' will vary greatly with the text and the
    purpose of the author and publisher. For example telephone address and number
    listings will call for a different approach than an advertisment for a pop star's
    new record. Yes, you can use Helvetica for both, but I really doubt that today
    this is the best solution for either one. \r\n\r\n>book designer ...whose work
    I have admired ... has used only the Janson for many years\r\n\r\nNote that they
    are publishing books, and probably of a similar genre. Also, generally speaking
    book faces are quieter and less differentiated than display faces. Further, many
    books don't need to be trendy or fashionable in their text, which some magazines
    and many advertisments will want. So I don't doubt that a book publisher could
    use the same typeface very effectively for years. But this doesn't make Vignelli's
    principle valid. \r\n\r\nI think that the '6 faces' thing is narrow minded, and
    I don't like Vignelli's work on the NY subway. However, in the thread last year
    someone posted a link for the guidelines for the National Park brochures that
    Vignelli designed. And these were excellent. And here a designer notes how good
    his lay-out guideliness for his magazine are.  \r\n\r\nSo it seems to me that
    here is a guy that is both talented and dogmatic, and the result is a mixture
    of good and bad work, but in any case there is probably a lot to be learned from
    him."
  created: '2006-05-17 12:48:13'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: "For the record, I certainly wouldn't suggest vignelli not be a designer --
    in fact I have a lot of respect for him, and admire many things that he has done,
    just generally speaking, not his graphic design. To say that the nature of a clean
    modernist aesthetic creates cold, inhumane graphics is probably true of most,
    but I don't see it as an absolute. I suppose it depends on what you personally
    consider constitutes humanity in graphic design -- for me, modernism can still
    make an emotional connection and warm the cockles of your heart. I am not looking
    to bash anyone, just start a little discussion, and to try and understand the
    situation better.\r\n\r\nConsidered font selection only improves good layout and
    concept beyond stylistic trivialities (in my mind at least) -- I suppose this
    is the crux of it -- he doesn't seem to believe that to be true. (well only if
    he's designed the font himself). Don't worry, I'm certainly not gonna lose any
    sleep over someone else living their life how they want to -- just trying to understand
    -- but if ever the term zombie modernist should be used, it is here. Typographic
    auto-pilot. Dare I say it, lazy.\r\n\r\ntiffany -- those dishes are delicious\r\n\r\nbrooklyn
    rob -- why 'diminutive'? just painting a picture of the lecture. of course it's
    nothing to do with a napoleon complex.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-17 13:09:08'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: It is my experience that designers tend to fall (loosely) into two categories
    - those who have a 'signature' look like Mr. Vignelli (or Louise Fili, in earlier
    days Fred Marcellino, I could come up with more examples but I'm running out the
    door) that they apply to nearly every project and those who are more chameleon-like,
    trying to adapt the design to the specifics of the project. The two are vastly
    different approaches to design, and you need to know a designer's approach before
    you hire them.  I'm in the latter category for sure and it has backfired on me
    from time to time - people saying my 'look' isn't right for them when I really
    don't think I have a 'look' and in fact think I could probably do nearly any type
    of design except perhaps the David Carson illegible look. I could certainly do
    'Vignelli' with my eyes closed.
  created: '2006-05-17 14:47:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The two are vastly different approaches to design\r\n\r\nI would say that
    the former is in fact an approach to <cite>art</cite>.\r\nBecause it's more about
    the creator than the created.\r\n\r\nThe only other explanation for severly limiting
    type choice (outside of \"education\") is a complete lack of understanding of
    how humans use type (like how the idea of a \"golden x-height\" is so retarded).
    In any case, it don't look good, doc.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-17 14:56:18'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>I really don\u2019t think I have a \u2018look\u2019</em>\r\n\r\nPatty,
    I also felt the same way. I am a very strong proponent of facing design problems
    without resorting to habitual solutions. \r\n\r\nThough I have a few \"favorite\"
    typefaces, preferred color schemes and personal preferences on text color/texture,
    I consider them all to be only \"affections\" and avoid using \"taste\" when seeking
    solutions.\r\n\r\nBut several years ago I contracted a freelance copywriter I
    knew (who didn't know I moved to a new company) and he said he thought I was working
    there since he <em>recognized my style</em> from the corportate ad campaigns running
    in magazines. Disconcerting, but enlightening.\r\n\r\nI do know there are strong
    \"marketing\" reasons in establishing a house \"style\", since many clients gravitate
    towards what <em>they</em> can recognize, or what they <em>are told by others</em>
    to recognize. There are plus and minuses to \"style\" and one of the biggest pluses
    is increased and continual (as long as you remain \"in style\") business.\r\n\r\nType
    and graphic designers are no different in this than song writers and performers.
    Some write the songs you like to hear, some sing the songs the way you like it.\r\n\r\nI
    guess that's why I keep scratching around looking for project opportunities :-\\"
  created: '2006-05-17 15:37:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Every single human has his own look - that's as pleasurable\r\nas it is inescapable.
    But what makes good design is when the\r\nlook comes through <cite>in spite</cite>
    of you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-17 15:49:53'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Well yes, Hrant, I agree with you. But that's not the same as imposing your
    look on the project whether it's suitable or not. That's the particular genius
    of the art director I suppose, making sure to give the project to the right designer.
    Square peg into square hole.\r\n\r\nIt can be disappointing when a designer falls
    back on the same old same old out of either laziness or lack of inspiration, but
    I guess we all do that from time to time."
  created: '2006-05-17 18:41:06'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: 'As for the concept of having only one face as a book designer: well and good
    for the text of the book, but surely one will use other fonts for the chapter
    titles and especially the cover. (Unless this is like the old Penquins, with one
    design and all the books squeezed into it.)'
  created: '2006-05-17 19:17:49'
- author:
    name: negativespace
    picture: 109845
  body: "Much of the modernist work of that period has a very distinct look but it
    seems to come from a very strong philosophy on what was considered to be straight
    forward, functional and objective. Rather than the designers trying to conform
    to a certain aesthetic or to leave their visual mark on a project. I respect that,
    and this is what I like about many of the past modernist designers. \r\n\r\nListening
    to Massimo talk he brought up an interesting point. I don't necessarily agree
    with it since I don't feel it is relevant for every project be said he felt that
    here was no target audience. As soon as you determine or direct your design to
    a specific audience you are already starting to narrow down its effectiveness,
    and when you have something being implemented that will be viewed by people of
    many different cultures like the material for the national parks, you need to
    keep it as universal as possible. So I think when your have a firm view on visual
    communication like that, there is bound to be a strong continuity between your
    work.\r\n\r\nIn terms of aesthetics I see a lot of designers today I think trying
    to emulate that \"swiss style\" and often very poorly, just seems to come off
    like faux modernism; very shallow and not based on strong principals that they
    have a firm understanding of. One of the few studios that I think pulls it off
    quite nicely is Experimental Jetset. They recently contributed a very interesting
    article about modernism today for our school magazine called Verso. (email me
    if you are interested)\r\n\r\nI find graphic designers like David Carson have
    more of a look, he\u2019s obsessed with himself, and does whatever the heck he
    wants which is why all of his work usually ends up looking the same, and at the
    same time I can\u2019t really see what the ideas behind his work is in the same
    way I see it with Massimo, aside from the fact that he wants to make it one way
    so he does."
  created: '2006-05-18 04:23:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Much of the modernist work of that period has a very distinct look but
    it seems to come from a very strong philosophy on what was considered to be straight
    forward, functional and objective.</em>\r\n\r\n...and utopian. The progressive
    social utopianism of the modernist movement mustn't be overlooked.\r\n\r\nHrant
    comments that the modernist design approach is about art -- as he puts it 'more
    about the creator than the created' --, but this ignores the social programme
    of modernism, which is concerned with neither the creator nor the created object,
    but about the role of both in a new aesthetic and social creation.\r\n\r\nI write
    this with very little sympathy for such a programme: I'm not a modernist and I'm
    suspicious of utopianism. But I think it is important to understand the motivations
    of modernism, and not to misrepresent them."
  created: '2006-05-18 21:52:54'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Yes. But of the major arts only architecture's modernists fit this characterisation.
    In literature and music almost all were cultural conservatives intent on reimagining
    a European tradition from within the mass culture they despised. The tone was
    lower in architecture largely because the arbiters of taste were lightly educated
    socialist politicians with limited budgets. Historians of the visual arts have
    tended to remake all modernism in the image of architecture's holy fools, but
    Gill and van Krimpen were more representative of the main stream of modernism
    than early Tschichold or Vignelli.\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-19 03:12:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Gill a modernist? You jest.
  created: '2006-05-19 03:18:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I see both Modernism and Medievalism in Gill.\r\nHe was a man of contradictions
    on so many fronts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-19 05:26:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If you lived through modernism, you would see that it was an attempt at utopian
    design that tried to grasp the new mass-production world of the time and create
    design which was more system and process oriented rather than the single item
    as work of art theory which it rebelled against. Vignelli was a man of system
    design and he was good at it.  His critics look at his single works and compare
    them to others' single works rather than the production system that they were.
    Hindsight is easy but modernism did a great service to the design profession.
    \ It brought it out of the \"Just make it pretty\" artiste school and into the
    \"just make it communicate\" school.  This elevated the profession in the corporate
    world and brought about what we now call branding.  You can debate the success
    or failure of the aesthetic that now remains of modernism in retrospect but the
    truth is, modernists were trying to make design devoid of style.  Sadly, its major
    critics complain about it because of style!\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-19 05:42:26'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: 'Well, there were two modernisms, as nearly opposite as two movements can
    be: following the conventions of impartial history, we can call them "Good Modernism"
    (The Waste Land is to Oedipos Tyrannos and the Divine Comedy as Perpetua''s, Joanna''s
    and Gill Sans'' capitals are to those of Trajan and the early Renaissance) and
    "Bad Modernism" (which is what modernism means in design circles).'
  created: '2006-05-19 10:11:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Actually it would be great to have a good, relatively impartial history of
    modernism in type design. There are the wonderful Heller-Filli books, but these
    are about the look of advertising and display. I would be interested to see the
    differences in design and typography, as seen first by those in the movement,
    and then from a current perspective. \r\n\r\nMy feeling is that modernism in archicture
    was mainly a disaster, but in type some good products and ideas came out of it.
    I would like to read more about the conflicts and changes within modernism--such
    as Nick has pointed out--and its real accomplishments and failures.\r\n\r\nThe
    ideal of being devoid of style, which Chris interestingly points out, is obviously
    naive in hindsight. I do think as Chris notes, they were in the later phase on
    to something in their thoughts about 'system', which photo type enabled them to
    think about in a new way.  "
  created: '2006-05-19 14:12:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>a good, relatively impartial history of modernism in type design. </em>\r\n\r\nWhat's
    wrong with Kinross?\r\nhttp://www.hyphenpress.co.uk/titles/modern_typography/synopsis.html"
  created: '2006-05-19 14:45:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks Nick, I didn''t know Kinross''s book. I''ll take a look at it. Reading
    some of his other stuff, I fear that he is a little too committed to modernism
    to give the balanced account I am looking for. But I''ll be happy to learn differently,
    and in any case even a well-informed partisan look at the movement will be interesting.   '
  created: '2006-05-19 14:54:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "William,\r\nI am on my way to my daughter's graduation and will be out of
    town for a few days. I think you misinterpreted my post so I will try to clarify
    it later.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-19 15:24:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Someone please close-tag the italics?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-19 15:25:37'
- author:
    name: guest
  body: why six? why not five, or seven?
  created: '2006-05-20 22:10:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Religion? For one thing, Modernism is one.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-20 22:36:08'
- author:
    name: Jill Bell
    picture: 109751
  body: "I still hear this from various older designers and teachers, and remember
    hearing it when I was in school. Not \"fonts\" in the old sense of one version
    of a face, but rather 5 families: Helvetica, Garamond, etc.  Maybe they were all
    parroting Vignelli. Who knows. Most of them were (are) highly reputable designers.
    Of course they never agreed on which 4, 5 or 6!\r\n\r\nI've heard reknown writers
    say it's not how big your vocabulary is, but how well you use it. I love it, but
    not because it makes me feel content with my modest lexicon, but rather because
    for a moment it made me see differently...even if my mind instantly started disputing
    it. \r\n\r\nI wouldn't take it literally (although Vignelli probably does). I
    let it remind me that problems and solutions are often different than they appear
    to be. Maybe we don't need 5,000 fonts on our computer (I'm around there) but
    just need to use 4 or 5 really well. \r\n\r\nJill\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-21 04:28:43'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Hi Jill\r\n\r\nI'm not sure how many fonts I have either but I rarely have
    more than a half dozen that are loaded and that I use all the time. Variety may
    be the spice of life but there is something to be said for intimacy as well.\r\n\r\nHope
    you are doing well\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-05-21 09:35:30'
date: '2006-05-16 15:57:01'
title: Massimo '6 typeface' Vignelli

---
