---
author:
  name: jaykay109
  picture: 111351
body: "Hey folks...\r\n\r\nI recently released a typeface, Bauer House, through t26.
  The long story short is, I had thought it was in pretty good shape overall, but
  I was told that there were $300 worth of fixes to be made in advance of release,
  so I shelled out the money up front. Now I feel like I should have come here first
  and asked for help. A Typophile on another thread said I should just post the list
  of fixes I was told they would need to make, and see if anybody has some input on
  those so that I'll know what to do next time. I think the list might be vague, but
  any input you have would be great. I'd post the whole typeface, but since it's already
  a commercial font being sold through t26, I don't know if that would be the best
  idea.\r\n\r\nBut let me know what y'all think.\r\n\r\n\u2014 Josh\r\n\r\n-------------\r\n\r\nBauer
  House [1 OTF with Standard, Titling/Inline, Smallcaps, Central European sets]\r\n\r\n
  \    Name Structures \u2014 Need to be corrected for cross-platform / OTF use \u2014
  5 min\r\n\r\n     Header Info \u2014 Missing a few info panels, invalid FOND ID,
  etc \u2014 15 min\r\n\r\n     Encoding \u2014 OK\r\n\r\n     Vector Check \u2014
  Numerous stacked points, intersecting contours, semi-perpendiculars \u2014 30 min\r\n
  \                       Numerous construction errors, bulges, non-matching glyphs\r\n
  \                           (e.g., H I w/ no rounding or flair) \u2014 60 min\r\n\r\n
  \    Metrics \u2014 Spacing inconsistencies and errors (J h u v etc):\r\n                        10
  min to correct most serious; or\r\n                        30 min to respace full
  font\r\n\r\n                Kerning: several overtight kern pairs (At Hu et):\r\n
  \                        5 min to correct / remove collisions;\r\n                        90
  min to rekern font after respacing\r\n\r\n     Hinting \u2014 No hints, alignment
  zones need to be set:\r\n                        30 min to hint (optional); or\r\n
  \                         0 min and font can be remain unhinted (will look fuzzier
  overall)\r\n\r\n     Euro \u2014 OK\r\n\r\n     Non-Breaking Space \u2014 Needs
  to be set \u2014 0 min\r\n\r\n     Vertical Metrics Tables \u2014 Need to be updated
  \u2014 0 min\r\n\r\n     Live Testing of OTF font \u2014 OTF tables appear to be
  working properly\r\n\r\n     \r\n     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - \r\n\r\n     Final
  Font Mastering and Live Proofing \u2014 15 min\r\n\r\n    \r\n     Combined Correction
  & Mastering Times:\r\n                        A: 140 min with most basic corrections\r\n
  \                       B: 245 min with new spacing & kerning\r\n                        C:
  275 min with new spacing, kerning & hinting"
comments:
- author:
    name: Mikhail Kovalev
  body: http://www.t26.com/fonts/display.php?f_id=935
  created: '2006-05-17 16:44:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "They charged you $300 to be able to sell your font?!\r\n\r\nI've heard of
    reducing royalties and other \"future-based\" schemes to make up\r\nfor shortcomings
    in a design by a beginner, but this almost seems like a scam...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: jaykay109
      picture: 111351
    body: "This is precisely what I'm worried about! I feel a bit ripped off, I think.
      I didn't want to come out and say anything bad outright, because I thought perhaps
      this was just the way this was done\u2014but now I'm feeling like there is a
      tremendously supportive community of type designers on this forum that I should
      have asked first. Everybody here seems to be interested in the benefit of those
      who contribute to the field, and perhaps that would have saved me some cash,
      and more importantly, would have allowed me to learn what I need to learn outright.\r\n\r\nWhat
      does everybody else think? Ripoff? No? \r\n\r\n- Josh Korwin\r\n\r\nPS: Thanks
      for the link to my typeface, goldgrube!\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
      and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
    created: '2006-05-17 19:41:37'
  created: '2006-05-17 17:44:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, their <cite>intent</cite> is one thing, and there's probably no way
    to be sure of what that is, but then there's <cite>results</cite>, and if they
    do wonderful improvements to your font, and especially if it sells much better
    as a result, then $300 might even be a really good deal.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: jaykay109
      picture: 111351
    body: "<cite>Well, their intent is one thing, and there\u2019s probably no way
      to be sure of what that is, but then there\u2019s results, and if they do wonderful
      improvements to your font, and especially if it sells much better as a result,
      then $300 might even be a really good deal.</cite>\r\n\r\nI guess that's part
      of my problem. Between <i>my</i> final files and theirs, there are differences
      (I used a file compare program to try to determine exactly what), but I'm not
      sure exactly what changes were made. While great improvements may have been
      made, they seem transparent to me. Worse yet, I can still find some bugs in
      the font (the bugs don't seem to affect print output, only screen output at
      certain sizes). In the future I'd much rather somehow learn how to do it properly
      myself so that it's not an issue. \r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
      and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
    created: '2006-05-17 20:51:25'
  created: '2006-05-17 19:54:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Here's an idea: post PDFs of the before and after!\r\nMaybe we can see some
    interesting differences.\r\nYou could use this -alphabetic- pangram:\r\n\"Abacists's
    deaf dog hijacked luminous parquetry studio, avows ex-yakuza.\"\r\nI'd set the
    pangram in -tight- consecutive lines in each font.\r\n\r\nThis sort of thing has
    never been done on Typophile (or really\r\nanywhere, that I know of) in the past,
    so if you could allow it\r\nthat would be great.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-17 20:57:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's not a rip-off, in terms of the cost for the work done.\r\nAnd didn't
    you agree to the price before they did the work?\r\n\r\nYou probably shouldn't
    be airing this aspect of a business relationship in public.\r\nThere may be a
    non-disclosure clause in your contract.\r\n\r\nYes, there are all kinds of trade
    secrets. Business is competitive, hard to explain, and many small businesses don't
    even formally rationalize how or why they do things the way they do; it just seems
    obvious, once you've tried a few different approaches. So it takes a while not
    just to become a better designer and manufacturer, but also to acquire an understanding
    of the business side of things. Everybody has gaps in who and what they know,
    it's just the way one evolves in one's niche."
  children:
  - author:
      name: jaykay109
      picture: 111351
    body: "Nick,\r\n\r\n<cite>It\u2019s not a rip-off, in terms of the cost for the
      work done.\r\nAnd didn\u2019t you agree to the price before they did the work?</cite>\r\n\r\nI
      did. I actually would not have started asking any questions on here, though,
      if I was satisfied with the quality of what I received for that payment. Had
      I received a much-improved font, with noticable changes, I wouldn't question
      it. I just feel like the job may have not been done properly, due to the strange
      \"artifacting\" that I'm getting using the revised edition.\r\n\r\n<cite>You
      probably shouldn\u2019t be airing this aspect of a business relationship in
      public.\r\nThere may be a non-disclosure clause in your contract.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
      checked in advance. No such clause exists in my contract. Furthermore, when
      I paid them to make the revisions to the font, we were not yet under contract.
      The contract was only signed after I had received the revised edition of the
      typeface. (Whether I made a mistake in signing at that point is a different
      issue.)\r\n\r\nAfter re-reading the contract, I'm more satisfied with the contract
      itself than I am with both the up-front cost and the seemingly-mediocre results
      that it paid for. The contract itself is pretty darn fair. I just feel like
      I probably could have released the font as-is instead and saved a few bucks.\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
      and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
    created: '2006-05-18 09:21:27'
  created: '2006-05-18 07:44:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> It\u2019s not a rip-off, in terms of the cost for the work done.\r\n\r\nBut
    we don't even know what work was done!\r\nAnd what if the results are actually
    <cite>worse</cite>?  :-/\r\n\r\nJoshua should certainly be careful (and it seems
    he is), but I wouldn't\r\ndiscourage him from pursuing this - he's actually doing
    others a favor.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: RN Lee
      picture: 111596
    body: "I'm new to type design (not to design/illustration in general--been doing
      that for twenty years), but I have a few years' experience writing and publishing
      short fiction, and this brings to mind raging arguments in that community, especially
      with the advent of Internet-based, print on demand vanity publishers. \r\n\r\nThere's
      a simple solution to the question when somebody asks \"X published me, but they
      charged me Y for Z. Was that right?\" The solution is \"Money flows to the writer.\"
      \r\n\r\nIt's the same deal with any kind of publishing of individual work, like
      this one--as the creator, you give up a significant financial interest in the
      commericial exploitation of your work in return for the publisher's assuming
      all financial risk and marketing the work. \r\n\r\nAny publisher/distributor/whatever
      that doesn't assume all financial risk in return for your allowing them to make
      the lion's share of income from marketing your work is not worth working with.
      I don't know if you got scammed, but...money's supposed to flow to you from
      the publisher, and it should never work the other way around. "
    created: '2006-05-18 14:53:49'
  created: '2006-05-18 10:33:58'
- author:
    name: jaykay109
    picture: 111351
  body: "<cite>Joshua should certainly be careful (and it seems he is), but I wouldn\u2019t
    discourage him from pursuing this - he\u2019s actually doing others a favor.</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks
    hrant, I appreciate it. That is really my goal here. I have absolutely no intention
    to trash-talk anyone; frankly it's my first retailed typeface and I'm both proud
    of that point and also pretty happy that at least t26 was interested enough to
    sign a contract with me. Regardless of the repair fees, they are still under contract
    to market my font, and that's something they're doing at their own risk. That's
    the plus side of things.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand:\r\n\r\n<cite>money\u2019s supposed
    to flow to you from the publisher, and it should never work the other way around.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    is how I had felt all along, and that's what made this feel somewhat fishy. I
    feel like, if a company was interested <em>enough</em> in Bauer House, they would
    say, \"This is a great design! We'll take care of the tweaking to make it set
    for public consumption.\" If a publisher was to believe enough in the work that
    they are putting out, they are the ones responsible for the editing. As RN Lee
    said, it seems a matter of confidence, liability, and responsibility. \r\n\r\nMore
    than anything, though, I was really just hoping that I would get a much higher-quality
    typeface back after the few weeks that were spent on their side fixing it. I had
    put a lot of work into it, but since it's my first actual font, I could be sure
    that it worked, but not that it would work in every application and with every
    system. It wasn't that the font was not in good shape, it was just a matter of
    being sure all the settings were correct. I originally made it clear that I would
    pay the fee to them once but that I would really like to receive the typeface
    after it is complete, and that it would be great to have a log-sheet or something
    to say exactly what was changed about it, so that in the future I could provide
    a better typeface from the get-go. When I received the .otf file afterwards, I
    was just a bit disappointed, because I could find small changes (such as the actual
    font name; I had used something else after \"Bauer House\" but they changed it
    to \"Bauer House - Regular\"), but the overall typeface seemed the same. My kerning
    had not been terrible to begin with, and that may have been minorly tweaked, but
    again, I saw no huge difference for the most part. I'll give them some possible
    credit though: sometimes subtle changes are the most important. Perhaps I could
    not find the major fixes because they seem transparent. But the one thing I'm
    very, very uncomfortable with is the fact that the font seems to have some sort
    of error (and I believe the error was introduced <em>after</em> the repairs were
    made. I'll have to test my old version to be sure).\r\n\r\nBut here's what I'm
    referring to. It's some sort of hinting issue, I think, because it shows up only
    when the type is displayed below a certain size. \r\n\r\n<strong>Small size:</strong>\r\nhttp://www.threestepsahead.com/temp/error_01.png\r\n\r\n<strong>Enlarged:</strong>\r\nhttp://www.threestepsahead.com/temp/error_02.png\r\n\r\nIn
    the larger type, it disappears. Bear in mind this is only on an alternate question
    mark that I designed, not the main one. The error may occur on a few other characters
    as well; I have to check in more detail.\r\n\r\nAnyway, this brings to mind one
    other last issue that I have in regards to the retailing of Bauer House. My typeface
    is FULL of alternate characters and OpenType features. It took some convincing
    to tell T26 that I insisted on having the font distributed in OpenType only. At
    first they had a problem with that, but I explained that so much of it is inseparable
    from the OpenType features that I would not want to see it distributed without
    them. They agreed, but said that they would have to update their entire system
    online to allow for an OpenType font to be used. In the end, when it was finally
    given back to me after the repairs, they said that they were forced to distribute
    it also in TTF and T1 formats for Mac and PC because their system would not allow
    just an OpenType font to stand alone. I've yet to receive copies of the TTF and
    T1 versions, but they could not possibly contain the features that I included
    in the OpenType version. Firstly I'm sad that they gave anybody a choice on that,
    as I can't really see much reason <em>not</em> to use OpenType at this point.
    Secondly, maybe as a result of that, or maybe just because this isn't high on
    their priority list, Bauer House's alternate characters and OpenType features
    are in no way being explicitly displayed on the site. So, I doubt I will see much
    in the way of royalties, if only for that reason.\r\n\r\nLastly, I don't mean
    in any way to offend or upset anyone by starting the conversations that I've started.
    I mean to do all of this out of fairness, as I think that we can all benefit from
    at least knowing how things <em>should</em> be done. By sharing our experiences,
    we have a little bit more confidence-ammunition to be able to negotiate for ourselves
    in the future. Before I even got started with designing type at all, I had run
    into so many problems with those I dealt with as a freelance graphic designer.
    Only recently have I started to get the hang of making sure I'm not taken advantage
    of as an independent contractor, and that's after years and years of problems.
    What I found, though, is that the biggest step I took was reading <a target=\"_blank\"
    href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0932102123/sr=8-1/qid=1147962757/ref=pd_bbs_1/104-7735859-3663122?%5Fencoding=UTF8\"><em>The
    Graphic Artists Guild Handbook: Pricing and Ethical Guidelines</em></a>. Overnight,
    I had much better method of running my business, because I finally had some advice
    and information specific to the industry. It was like having a veteran sitting
    on my desk and telling me \"No, no. <em>This</em> is how it's done.\" In our case,
    here, I think we can all benefit from the discussion and collective advice of
    those that have \"been there.\"\r\n\r\n- Josh\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
    and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
  children:
  - author:
      name: RN Lee
      picture: 111596
    body: "<strong>In the larger type, it disappears.</strong>\r\n\r\nIt actually
      doesn't--this is an illusion. Try pasting the smaller graphic on top of the
      larger and enlarging the smaller until the t's line up. The question mark is
      in the same place, it's just not working visually at the smaller size--it rather
      looks like it's trying to molest the poor t. "
    children:
    - author:
        name: jaykay109
        picture: 111351
      body: "No, check out the dot on the question mark. On the small size, it is
        hollow. When enlarged, it stays solid. It's hard to see on the graphic, but
        it's easily visible dynamically in Illustrator (where I exported from).\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
        and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
      children:
      - author:
          name: RN Lee
          picture: 111596
        body: Oh, I gotcha. Yeah, that is a bother.
        created: '2006-05-18 16:22:49'
      created: '2006-05-18 16:11:10'
    created: '2006-05-18 16:08:09'
  created: '2006-05-18 15:42:54'
- author:
    name: RN Lee
    picture: 111596
  body: "<strong>I feel like, if a company was interested enough in Bauer House, they
    would say, \u201CThis is a great design! We\u2019ll take care of the tweaking
    to make it set for public consumption.\u201D</strong>\r\n\r\nEither that, or send
    you a list of recommended changes and corrections for you to make yourself, which
    is the way it's generally done with published fiction. I wouldn't let a publisher
    print my story if they wrote and informed me they'd be making a bunch of changes,
    themselves (every contract I've signed thus far, in fact, prohibits this), and
    if they decided they needed to make changes and wanted to charge me for proofreading
    and copy editing, I'd do exactly what you did, go post about it on a board where
    other writers hang out.\r\n\r\nYou're not revealing \"trade secrets,\" here, just
    exposing a practice that's dodgy, at best."
  created: '2006-05-18 16:02:47'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: Compared the alternate question mark glyph and the standard one? Maybe a hinting
    problem?
  created: '2006-05-19 15:20:31'
- author:
    name: jaykay109
    picture: 111351
  body: "Both are the alternate glyph. Those graphics are the same exact file, just
    \"Saved for Web\" at different sizes. When the font is rasterized below a certain
    size, the dot goes hollow on that glyph. It seems to be a hinting problem, yes,
    but I think the culprit (looking at the file) is a duplicate curve. The dot is
    repeated over itself and hollows out (the way a compound path does). I guess I
    should let them know that they should fix that? I hate being obnoxious, but still.\r\n\r\n-
    Josh\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
    and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
  created: '2006-05-19 15:39:50'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: "What I ment was, compare the alternate and the standard glyph in Fontlab,
    then you should see what\xB4s wrong.."
  created: '2006-05-19 18:22:36'
- author:
    name: jaykay109
    picture: 111351
  body: "Oh oh! Yes, that's what I did. It seems to be a duplicated path, on both
    the alternate question mark and the alternate version of the upside-down Spanish
    interrogation mark. I'll let T26 know and perhaps they can make the fix on their
    side.\r\n\r\nI'd do it myself and send them the fix, but as it is, I'm still unsure
    about how exactly I should generate fonts from FontLab in order to produce the
    best results. I don't know much about encoding and about the font settings themselves;
    it all seems so incredibly dense with so many options and potential to screw up.\r\n\r\nIt
    scares me.\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
    and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
  created: '2006-05-19 19:34:40'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "RN Lee\r\n\r\nYour statement \"Any publisher/distributor/whatever that doesn\u2019t
    assume all financial risk in return for your allowing them to make the lion\u2019s
    share of income from marketing your work is not worth working with,\" isn't quite
    the way it works in non-fiction publishing. The cost of obtaining permissions
    for illustrations, as a for instance, is often up to the author. Since this can
    be prohibitive (I have a friend who would have had to fork out $23,000 for rights
    to use photographs), it often becomes a situation where a writer has to pursue
    the grant track in order to provide a viable manuscript that a publisher is willing
    to undertake."
  children:
  - author:
      name: RN Lee
      picture: 111596
    body: "\"Your statement \u201CAny publisher/distributor/whatever that doesn\u2019t
      assume all financial risk in return for your allowing them to make the lion\u2019s
      share of income from marketing your work is not worth working with,\u201D isn\u2019t
      quite the way it works in non-fiction publishing. The cost of obtaining permissions
      for illustrations, as a for instance, is often up to the author.\"\r\n\r\nIn
      some specific cases. In major magazine nonfiction writing, which pays better
      than anything else, the writer is absolutely not on the hook for out of pocket
      costs like this. In many cases involving non-fiction book publishing, authors
      are given limited budgets for image clearance and anything beyond that is out
      of pocket.\r\n\r\nAt any rate, this is not an issue of the publisher not assuming
      financial responsibility, simply one of controlling expenditure. Non-fiction
      authors *still* don't have to pay their publishers to edit and proof their books.
      \r\n\r\nThe only way the illustration question could be equivalent to the subject
      under discussion is if non-fiction authors were given lists of illustrations
      owned by the publisher who required them to use those illustrations and charged
      them per-image. Publishers and distributors shouldn't be holding editing costs
      over creator's heads as a ticket to entry for *anything.* It's unethical and
      a clear conflict of interest, given that the publisher stands to make more money
      the more edits they require of more creators. "
    created: '2006-05-23 21:08:34'
  created: '2006-05-21 09:30:08'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: I would be happy to pay someone to hint my fonts for me, because I hardly
    know where to begin. But if I saw results like that (look at the flaws in the
    verticals, like the right edge of the U and the left edge of the H), I wouldn't
    be convinced they'd even done it.
  created: '2006-05-21 13:15:19'
- author:
    name: jaykay109
    picture: 111351
  body: "Cerulean, I see what you're saying. \r\n\r\nIs there an objective expert
    that would be willing to help me look through the typeface in its as-is state
    in order to determine what has or has not been fixed? While I generally trust
    this forum, I'm loathe to post the files themselves for free distribution on the
    Interweb. I'm sure that's not a good idea. But if someone in the field would be
    interested in giving me a hand, I could discuss the matter with them and the results
    of their findings could be posted here... anyone have any suggestions? \r\n\r\nAfter
    I re-read my contract, I found that I still have the right to sell the font myself
    directly to end-users as long as that agreement does not constitute a resale agreement.
    So I'd definitely like to perfect this typeface.\r\n\r\n- Josh\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
    and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
  created: '2006-05-21 15:00:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Why not post before/after PDFs like I described?\r\n\r\n> I still have the
    right to sell the font myself\r\n\r\nAre you allowed to sell the \"fixed\" one
    too?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-21 15:20:12'
- author:
    name: jaykay109
    picture: 111351
  body: "I'm positive that the PDFs won't show very noticable differences, first of
    all. I've already tested the typeface in Illustrator and I can't really find much
    that would be discernable. What I'm referring to more so is the code itself: hinting,
    encoding, and other such technicalities. The curves, for the most part, seem as
    they should, with the exception of the duplicate path issue, which does not show
    up in print anyway.\r\n\r\nI mostly just want to determine whether a substantial
    amount of work was performed, and how I can go about processing my typefaces properly
    in the future. Plus, if I was to attach any PDFs, especially with any embedded
    font information, security and licensing issues would be a-plenty.\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
    and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
  created: '2006-05-21 15:56:39'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "They gave you a list of fixes that could be easily checked, and if they needed
    fixing, I'm glad they cared enough to do so. Was the spacing inconsistent on mnh,
    was the kerning overtight on a few pairs, overlapping curves etc? Is it now fixed?
    $300 seems absolutely fair, even a bargain if they respaced and rekerned the entire
    font. Especially so if it has an extended character set. My gut reaction is that
    you're not getting hosed, but posting pdfs would be helpful. \r\n\r\nWith regard
    to hinting\r\n\r\nThis list may give a start:\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/activity/hinting/\r\nEspecially
    this page:\r\nhttp://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&item_id=NotesOnHintingWithFL\r\n\r\nOver
    the lifetime of your font, I hope that $300 is a drop in the bucket! Congratulations
    on your first retail font. It's a big accomplishment.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nRandy"
  created: '2006-05-21 23:23:44'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "> I still have the right to sell the font myself directly to end-users as
    long as that agreement does not constitute a resale agreement.\r\n\r\nso does
    that mean that you wouldn't be able to sell it through a distibutor such as myfonts
    or veer?\r\n\r\njust curious about the way all this stuff works\u2026\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: jaykay109
      picture: 111351
    body: "<cite>so does that mean that you wouldn\u2019t be able to sell it through
      a distibutor such as myfonts or veer?</cite>\r\n\r\nExactly; I think it means
      no more reseller agreements. Analogy time! T-26 gets to be the only store that
      can carry my product, but it's still OK for me to pedal around with a bicycle
      cart, selling it to the local tourists.\r\n\r\n*Rings bike bell...*\r\nAny takers?
      Hehe.\r\n\r\n- Josh\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
      and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
    created: '2006-05-22 03:48:11'
  created: '2006-05-22 03:39:34'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "alrighty then\u2026 good luck with the deal; i hope it does really well!
    \r\n\r\ncheers!\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-22 04:04:47'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Let us know in five or six years if you recouped the $300. :-)\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si "
  created: '2006-05-23 06:20:15'
- author:
    name: jaykay109
    picture: 111351
  body: "I'd still be thrilled even if it took that long. At this point I'm not expecting
    much. :)\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
    and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
  created: '2006-05-23 12:40:21'
- author:
    name: RN Lee
    picture: 111596
  body: ":\"T-26 gets to be the only store that can carry my product\"\r\n\r\nAnd
    they only charged you three hundred bucks for the privilege of restricting your
    marketing options to their site? That IS a good deal!"
  created: '2006-05-23 21:14:32'
- author:
    name: jaykay109
    picture: 111351
  body: "To their credit, the end-product delivered to me is mine to keep. So I paid
    for the $300 of repairs, (the value of the repairs remains questionable, but still)
    but I get to use that end product to sell. I still bought something, in the law's
    eyes, at least.\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
    and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
  created: '2006-05-23 23:16:51'
date: '2006-05-17 15:58:32'
node_type: forum
title: I want to be an expert!

---
