---
author:
  name: jaykay109
  picture: 111351
body: "I had just posted a new topic at http://typophile.com/node/19952 but my post
  was a bit disorganized and not very popular. So, I'll ask outright here:\r\n\r\nWhich
  company (such as T26, Veer, Fonts.com/Monotype, etc.) would all of you professional
  typographers recommend as far as licensing fonts? Is doing it on your own better?
  It'd be nice to get a pros-and-cons type  of comparison so that more informed decisions
  could be made next time.\r\n\r\n\u2014 Josh"
comments:
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Why you don't release your font through MyFonts.com by yourself? I have the
    feeling you have big doubts about your contract with T26. Well, its worth the
    experience, isn't it? BTW, if you release your fonts by yourself, you can made
    reseller contracts with FSI, Linotype or Monotype and you will get more percentages
    like through a common (pain in the a$$) designer contract. \r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\"
    target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2006-05-17 16:44:30'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: There is a 2-3 year old post that covers this very nicely and should still
    be applicable. Can someone find?
  created: '2006-05-17 17:09:44'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Not sure if any of these are what Stephen was thinking of:\r\n\r\nSelling
    Through a Foundry, Pros & Cons: http://www.typophile.com/node/8695\r\n\r\nSelling
    a font, copyrights included, to a foundry: http://www.typophile.com/node/10363
    (short)\r\n\r\nDoes exclusive mean anything anymore?: http://www.typophile.com/node/7935
    (short)\r\n\r\nBuilding up a new foundry: http://www.typophile.com/node/13122\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-17 17:44:29'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Those older ones are missing my comments that were lost when Typophile redesigned.
    That could be a blessing. Otherwise, you have to seek them out via Google cache.
  created: '2006-05-17 19:26:24'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: NOT Monotype Imaging, under any circumstances (for reasons I am legally bound
    not to discuss, at least as far as particulars go)...
  created: '2006-06-06 00:46:11'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: My comments are all gone as well. In some cases I'm quite happy about that.
    :^D
  created: '2006-06-06 20:26:13'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "In 2004 an email from Monotype droped in my mail box with their contracts
    and some technical stuff (FontSubmissionKit). But some well informed people suggest
    me to stay from it and don't join fonts.com. Maybe the documents are a bit outdated,
    but they are no secrets. \r\n\r\nAfter all, the big issue I miss on the side of
    the big distributers is, they don't see us as partners! A lot of the type designers
    are well qualified technical font developers too. They deliver a \"ready for shipment\"
    product. But in general, their contracts are written in a manner of taking out
    a maximum of your rights. Some of them are essential goods and not necessary for
    a simple online distribution. \r\n\r\nFor a pure online distribution its not necessary
    to give the rights:\r\n\r\n- to modify and convert your fonts\r\n- to customise
    your fonts for \"their\" clients\r\n- to bundle your fonts with other products
    to \"new\" products (e.g. CDRoms, OEM-bundles, font colletions)\r\n- to sublicense
    it to other \"distribution partners\" of theirs\r\n\r\nSo in the light of this,
    out of the big five, I can recommend MyFonts.com only. \r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\"
    target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2006-06-07 00:13:26'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "On the consumer end, I love Myfonts. It is easy to buy, with good previews.
    And decent pricing. And the font-maker gets a good deal too. Also you aren't prevented
    from making other arrangements, as I understand it. \r\n\r\nYou can't beat win-win-win.
    I like it so much it is one of only four sites on my font links page. "
  created: '2006-06-07 06:23:57'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "We should make the distinction between a \"foundry\" and a \"reseller\".
    Basically, you have two options:\r\n\r\n<ol><li>Submit fonts to an existing foundry
    (i.e. Emigre, FontFont, Font Bureau, ITC).</li><li>Create your own foundry and
    sell those fonts through resellers like MyFonts, FontShop, Fonts.com, and Phil's
    Fonts.</li></ol> \r\n\r\nIf you have several fonts ready to release and wish to
    create your own label (option 2), there is no reason you need to be limited to
    one of the resellers. Just remember that there is a lot of work besides font creation
    that goes into creating your own label - writing and maintaining a EULA, for instance.\r\n\r\nThere
    are other advantages to going the first route. An exclusive foundry like FontFont
    will do the distribution and promotion for you (with your input and collaboration,
    of course). Your work will be advertised around the world in various outlets and
    in printed catalogs, and it will be attached to a trusted, established brand.
    In most cases, the foundry will be carried by more than one reseller, further
    extending your reach. Some foundries will also help you complete the development
    of your fonts.\r\n\r\nSome like to release their early, more experimental work
    for free or through MyFonts. Once they've cut your teeth and created something
    they feel really confident about, they look to an established label to help it
    sell well.\r\n\r\nMany designers release work through various foundries throughout
    their career (Xavier Dupr\xE9, Akira Kobayashi, Jim Parkinson). Sometimes a certain
    style simply fits in one foundry's library better than another's.\r\n\r\nMuch
    of this decision depends on how much time and effort you're willing to put into
    promotion and business, and what type of fonts you've created. Tell us more."
  created: '2006-06-07 07:40:36'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "And a point of clarification about companies that own both a foundry/label
    and a reseller operation.\r\n\r\nMonotype is a <em>foundry</em>. Fonts.com is
    a <em>reseller</em>. \r\nBoth are owned by Monotype Imaging.\r\n\r\nFontFont is
    a foundry. FontShop.com is a reseller. \r\nBoth are owned by FSI FontShop International.\r\n\r\nGarageFonts
    is a foundry. Phil's Fonts is a reseller.\r\n\r\nUmbrella* is (sort of) a foundry.
    Veer is a reseller. \r\n\r\n*I take mild exception to the claim that Umbrella
    is a \"Veer Exclusive\". Many of the fonts in the collection, such as Underware's
    and Mark Simonson's, are available elsewhere. Rebuttal, Grant?"
  created: '2006-06-07 08:06:13'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Thank you Stephen, the line between foundry and distributer is often not
    quite clear. In case of FSI & the FontShops and Bitstream/MyFonts, these are separate
    legal units you can deal separately. But fonts.com is Monotype Imaging, one legal
    entity.\r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2006-06-07 10:49:15'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Whether you choose to work with a reseller or a foundry there really are
    no words to express the feelings when you get that royalty statement and you see
    that your take on a sale is $2.20. Everyone takes a cut and you the designer are
    left with the short end of the transaction. Even if you are promised a particular
    percentage, you have to remember that the reseller may sell to another reseller
    who then bundles your fonts to another reseller.\r\n\r\nEarly im my career I Iicensed
    some fonts to FontHaus, boy, ya gotta love those $3.25 royalty checks. I have
    a whole bunch in a pile on my desk uncashed. They are worth so much more as a
    reminder. And those ITC royalties, wow!\r\n\r\nMy advice is to manage your own
    intellectual property. An e-commerce web site, a EULA, some marketing, yes it
    all costs money, but what is that old saying about spending money to make money.
    But only if you are serious about making some money in the type business. And
    don't pay any attention to all those Typophile members who keep carping that you
    can't make money doing type. Those are the people who haven't figured out how
    to do it. Believe me you can make money in type.\r\n\r\nJames\r\n\r\nPS- Stephen,
    in a thread like this don't you think you should make it clear that you work for
    FontShop. "
  created: '2006-06-07 11:46:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "James,\r\nThanks for your insights. I really appreciate your candor.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-07 13:13:00'
- author:
    name: grumpyoldbugger
  body: I'm sure that everyone knows that Stephen Coles works for Font Shop; 95% of
    his posts are type suggestions available from FontShop.com.
  created: '2006-06-07 15:36:14'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "i didnt, but im quite a new guy around here (not that new, but apparently
    new enough to not know that).\r\n\r\ninteresting thread anyway, i didnt mean to
    interrupt the discussion."
  created: '2006-06-07 15:48:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Actually, I didn't know Stephen worked for FontShop either. His posts always
    seem helpful and I never noticed a FontShop bias.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-07 15:57:24'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "James - You're right, I should remind folks of that. I lean too heavily on
    the assumption that Googling my name will make my resume clear.\r\n\r\nThat said,
    I don't recommend FontFont to everyone. Nor do I recommend submission to a foundry
    or reseller to everyone. I was just trying to lay out the other side of the coin
    as the advantages of the submission approach weren't mentioned.\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019m
    sure that everyone knows that Stephen Coles works for FontShop; 95% of his posts
    are type suggestions available from FontShop.com.</em>\r\n\r\nOh, thank god someone
    is keeping track! You're probably accurate, Mr. Grump -- at least for the Type
    ID Board, of which FontShop is a sponsor. I think every type supplier should be
    in there, suggesting relevant fonts.\r\n\r\nIf any of my posts are completely
    unhelpful, please let me know."
  created: '2006-06-07 17:49:54'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "Joshua:\r\n\r\nYour previous thread piqued my interest.  As the most recent
    (Jan 2005) T26 caretaker I witnessed enough to keep me from ever releasing a font
    through most of the names being dropped here, especially T26.\r\n\r\nThis being
    a public forum, I'll leave it at that.  I realize that you already have your doubts
    and feel a bit cheated.  I'm just here to confirm your gut reaction.\r\n\r\nOn
    the brighter, 'build a better mansion' side of things, Google my name and you'll
    see what my associates and I are doing about it."
  created: '2006-06-07 18:48:16'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Silas,\r\n\r\nwhy so shy? You are the one of the heads of TheTypeTrust. I
    have seen this site for the first time now. So its a coorporation like the village
    thing? Would be nice if you guys would bring in some more info.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typetrust.com
    -\r\nhttp://vllg.com\r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2006-06-07 19:19:02'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: The site is beautiful and works beautifully, Silas. Nice work.
  created: '2006-06-07 19:41:11'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>I\u2019m sure that everyone knows that Stephen Coles works for FontShop;
    95% of his posts are type suggestions available from FontShop.com.</em>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    sure that everyone knows that Stephen Coles is a extremely valued contributor
    to Typophile; 95% of his posts are very useful type suggestions, often extensive
    lists of alternatives and elaborate explanations."
  created: '2006-06-07 19:45:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Amen Yves.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-07 19:55:05'
- author:
    name: grumpyoldbugger
  body: Type Trust and Village are all a bunch of weanies. If they were any good they
    could stand on their own like men, and not huddle together like a bunch of girls.
    They're both ripoffs of My Fonts, as are Font Shop and Veer, which you expect
    from companies based in San Francisco and Canada.
  created: '2006-06-07 21:58:48'
- author:
    name: michaelbrowers
    picture: 111225
  body: I thought Stephen's post was helpful and I failed to see any bias in it...
    and as Stephen pointed out there is nothing wrong with type suppliers suggesting
    fonts from places they are associated with.
  created: '2006-06-07 21:59:37'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>Type Trust and Village are all a bunch of weanies. If they were any
    good they could stand on their own like men, and not huddle together like a bunch
    of girls. They\u2019re both ripoffs of My Fonts, as are Font Shop and Veer, which
    you expect from companies based in San Francisco and Canada.</em>\r\n\r\nGrumpy
    Old Bugger, it doesn't surprise me you are hiding behind an anonymous alias. I
    think this kind of abuse is unwarranted and adds little to nothing to the discussion
    at hand. If you want to contribute please try to be a little more meaningful and
    produce some arguments instead of whining like a spoiled brat. We're all adults
    here.\r\n\r\nI suggest you clean up your act or prepare yourself to get kicked
    off the board."
  created: '2006-06-07 22:08:46'
- author:
    name: neil summerour
    picture: 110292
  body: "Well, Josh...you are asking questions that I did years ago. I can sympathize.
    But I think I have a unique perspective on this.\r\n\r\nI released my first few
    fonts with T26 several years ago and continue to release with them. I was so eager,
    so willing to do whatever I needed to get published. Despite what anyone says,
    how they put it, or whatever degree of cool bravado they might toss out...it's
    really cool to see your fonts for sale, to see them being used, to see them in
    print. In time, that cool factor evolves into 'what can I do to make more money,
    what can I do to get recognized more' and so on. I think people on this post have
    offered some great advice, but it is important to realize...you ultimately can
    control this. I sell my work with T26, Veer, MyFonts and my and Silas' new baby,
    TypeTrust. I appreciate them all.\r\n\r\nI have tried it all. Small foundry, large
    foundry, self-publish...they all have their benefits and each has benefitted me.
    The attitude I have taken of late is that I love type and I want it diefied and
    its creators as much as possible. Greater attention to detail, perfection of the
    craft, finding niches that I can explore creatively, using my resources to create
    a platform that I can present my work and others that truly showcases the artist's
    work. It sounds a little over blown, but it is an exploration...the same as picking
    up the pencil and sketching something out on paper to see if it works....sometimes
    it does, sometimes it doesn't.\r\n\r\nThe important thing to realize is that there
    really isn't one right answer. Just keep trying, know that you will never do your
    'best work' with any one arrangement, and sometimes even the coolest typeface
    won't make you a dime and the one you spent the least time on will buy you a car.\r\n\r\nKeep
    sketching. Every 'successful' type designer started somewhere."
  created: '2006-06-08 00:59:19'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Grumpyoldbugger, we're all entititled to hold grudges (I guess), but you might
    make a better case if you present some facts instead of just spewing negative
    drivel.
  created: '2006-06-09 17:36:08'
- author:
    name: grumpyoldbugger
  body: "Most of the stuff being published nowadays is aweful. In my day publishing
    a type design was a serious undertaking, and was an expensive venture. You had
    to be a big company with big budgets, so the typefaces were better: I.T.C. were
    the leaders in type development with teams of type designers.\r\n\r\nIf you look
    at 99% of what's published by My Fonts and their rip-off competitors, it's crap.
    And of the 1% which isn't crap, almost all of it is by older guys who know a thing
    or two, like Nick Shinn and Eric Spekerman.\r\n\r\nThose are facts, not \"negative
    drivel\"."
  created: '2006-06-09 20:06:26'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "That's a symptom of digitization, (democratization of the tools and of the
    delivery mechanisms), not a symptom of bad business practices... There are a million
    lame podcasts too, and a million lame cameraphone pics going around, but overall,
    the net effect is better podcasts and better photos. \r\n\r\nSo, I don't buy the
    general sentiment that the type industry is on it's way downhill. I just see that
    the number of typefaces has exploded and the median quality suffers, but the best
    of the best is still happening at Village, Underware, OurType, FontFont, Simonson
    Studio, Terminal Design, etc, etc, etc, etc."
  created: '2006-06-09 20:24:21'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Word up, Joe.\r\n\r\nBut I do agree with old grumpyface that the quality
    of some once-venerable foundries has decreased, as they are accepting subpar submissions
    rather than using a talented core of people, whether inhouse or freelance regulars.
    The bulk of the best work has <a href=\"http://typographi.com/001045.php\">shifted
    significantly</a> from the larger veteran manufacturers to smaller foundries and
    independent designers."
  created: '2006-06-09 20:33:15'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "\"Most of the stuff being published nowadays is aweful. In my day publishing
    a type design was a serious undertaking, and was an expensive venture.\"\r\n\r\nPartly
    true - in the \"old days\" you find lots of rip-offs, clones and many creepy types
    too. - The overall amount was smaller, since all things have to be build and stored
    physically. \r\n\r\nBut this is an other topic, nothing to do with the pratice
    of publishing and contracting today.\r\n\r\nSo, please don't hijack this thread,
    start a new one, I'm sure it will be intresting. \r\n\r\nMyFonts is distributing
    (not publishing) fonts from everyone with fair conditions. Its like google or
    ebay. Don't blame the messenger.\r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2006-06-09 21:39:59'
- author:
    name: grumpyoldbugger
  body: "Thanks for the links to Typographica.com. I hadn't ever seen that site before.\r\n\r\n\"There
    are a million lame podcasts too, and a million lame cameraphone pics going around,
    but overall, the net effect is better podcasts and better photos.\"\r\n\r\nAs
    opposed to the podcasts and cameraphone pics of the late 1960s?"
  created: '2006-06-09 21:54:38'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "g.o.b. :\r\n\r\nAll your talk of 'back in my day' makes me wonder when your
    day really was.  Are you harkening back to the early days of digital type or the
    all but forgotten paste-up days of the \"late 1960's\"?\r\n\r\nIn any case, those
    days are over.  Your exaggerated rants are heartily amusing but ultimately distracting
    if you're just going to make some snide, defamatory jabs from behind a mask.\r\n\r\nShow
    your credentials like a real man (or go back to using your normal Typopohile account)
    to gripe about all us weanies huddling together like girls with our MyFonts rip-offs."
  created: '2006-06-09 23:41:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am an old geezer as well. I quite remember plenty of lousy stuff from years
    back.  The difference is, the crap gets buried in the sand and people only remember
    what they want to remember. In  the 50s, lots of very bad typography ended up
    being used to wrap the garbage. I remember Paul Rand and had the brief privilege
    of working with him.  I also remember plenty of design hacks back then who are
    just as bad as any recent design hacks. Time sifts our memories and leaves us
    with the few grains that mean the most to us. Today, the technology speeds up
    the process so more stuff gets done quicker prompting quicker deadlines and quicker
    technology to meet them. The percentage is the same but the volume in 10-fold
    greater.  We can't go back to the \"good old days\" of our youth but we can do
    what we can to make today work better than it does.  This is more likely to succeed
    if we old fogies teach by example and give reasons with sound judgement spiced
    with some anecdotes to describe what we mean. We geezers can't just shout \"everything
    you young folks do is wrong\" and expect to be listened to. We should be teachers,
    not impeachers. I'll bet GOB has some sound advice to give and I'll bet that advice
    would be listened to more with reason than with rant if he would give it a chance?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-11 01:32:56'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "\"All your talk of \u2018back in my day\u2019 makes me wonder when your day
    really was.\"\r\n\r\nMaybe he lived in Magonza or Venice in the 16th century,
    and he's a 500-years old vampire. ;)\r\nIn fact, I was in Pompeii when the volcano
    erupted. Hence, my fascination for crude late Roman cursive forms.\r\n\r\nBesides
    Grumpy, no offense for anyone, but the United States are not the only country
    on earth!"
  created: '2006-06-12 19:59:17'
date: '2006-05-17 15:48:34'
title: Best distributor for releasing new typefaces?

---
