---
author:
  name: jazzsammich
  picture: 110792
body: "Please forgive my ignorance here, but I was reading a current thread in which
  Hrant was bemoaning Gerrit Noordzij's [[chirography|chirographic]] approach.\r\n\r\nI
  can't say I get it.  For this discussion, I'd like to set aside issues of pedagogy
  or influence, deserved or undeserved.  Strictly from a design perspective, what's
  so wrong with chirography as a foundation for typeface development?\r\n\r\n--Jim
  K."
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Basically, it favors the black bodies of letters (by tying the two edges
    of the black, via a marking tool/metaphor) and this impedes the optimal formation
    of [[notan]], which is the unity and relation of black and white. Notan being
    what we read. Chirography isn't going to destroy the world or anything, but it's
    still bad craft.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-21 05:44:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wait, I forgot that I'm wielding not a spear but a trident. The other two
    tips:\r\n2) Chirography wants to throw off optimal vertical proportions by making
    the descenders too long, mainly because chiro-structurally they need more room
    to properly elaborate, and secondarily because we write downward and tend to \"flourish\"
    descenders more.\r\n3) Sensitive type designers -rightly- complain that overly
    geometric fonts have low readability, because they impose a grid, which is highly
    out of tune with our humanism. But chirography in turn imposes its own grid, it's
    just not a Cartesian one: it promotes a certain overt modularity among many letter
    structures (think of the b/d/p/q) that goes against the divergence our reading
    mechanism needs.\r\n\r\nShame - it's such a pretty fish.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-21 16:15:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There is nothing wrong with chirography as a means of achieving good notan,
    in fact the flexible broad nibbed pen is a brilliant instrument for this.\r\n\r\nCalligraphic
    techniques -- such as rotating the nib angle during a stroke, or varying pressure,
    or easing off a terminal stroke by dragging one side of the nib -- have been used
    from before type, to imitate the effects of other media (notably stone carving)
    and pen or brush lettering, as well as to create complexity and sophistication
    beyond the basic, consistently angled written form.\r\n\r\nUsing chirography as
    the organizing principle of type design has much merit. Of course, if you do it
    in a banal and simplistic way, you will get the kind of results that Hrant decries.
    But the tool (and methodologies derived from it) cannot be dismissed just because
    a few, or even many, practitioners use it in a naive manner.\r\n\r\nIn this example
    of the textus quadratus, a 14th century scribe is certainly not droning throught
    the alphabet with \"overt modularity\", but giving the reader plenty of divergence.
    \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bdqp_4418.jpg]"
  created: '2006-05-21 21:10:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You can certainly subvert the natural tendencies of chirography\r\nand make
    it less of a bad influence. But then the question becomes:\r\nwhy even bother
    in the first place? The only answer I can think of\r\nis a bad one: because it
    lets a designer arrive at results acceptable to\r\nthe lowest-common-denominator,
    without having to think too much.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-21 21:33:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Exploiting the potential of a tool to the maximum is not subverting its natural
    tendencies.\r\nThe broad nib pen is a a great instrument, as are most analog tools,
    because the user can screw around with it, bend it and invent \"unnatural\" ways
    of using it.\r\nIn fact the propensity of analog tools to be used in unexpected
    ways is what makes them so useful. "
  created: '2006-05-21 21:58:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm a big fan of the unexpected! But there's really not much unexpected left
    in chirography. Instead of your hand you should use your foot, your mouth; instead
    of a broad-nib pen you should use a rock. And if you <cite>really</cite> want
    to \"screw around\", you extract the unexpected directly from your mind into outlines,
    instead of through an arbitrary body-marking medium, which is inherently anti-optimal-notan.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-21 22:05:28'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Jim,\r\n\r\nWhen Hrant says [the broad pen is] inherently anti-optimal-notan,
    he means that the use of the pen in type design has a limit in terms of the functionality
    it can impart to a typeface. It's definitely useful to learn what the limitations
    are. So far we haven't really heard any specific discussion of techniques in type
    design that reveal just what those limitations are. That might be a good topic
    for an advanced type design class. "
  created: '2006-05-22 16:42:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "In my view, Hrant you have hold of a partial truth which you generalize to
    the point where is at the very least misleading. \r\n\r\nType, especially the
    roman lower case, was originally based on pen-formed letters. The very formation
    of these letters is influenced by the broad-nibbed pen. And in a number of ways
    the broad pen helped produce some aspects of readability, by automatically making
    'optical corrections' to shapes and joins. For example, a vertical bar appears
    thinner than a horizontal bar of the same width. The broad pen, held at eg 30%
    produces broader verticals. Also joins, such as in the 'a' are naturally narrowed
    by the broad pen, making them look less 'clotted'. Also it may be that serifs,
    that are to a certain extent natural to the hand-moved pen, help produce more
    balanced letters. \r\n\r\nNow it is also true that features of hand writing oppose
    readability.   At TypeTech in New York last month, I was sitting next to the charming
    Cara Di Edwardo, a calligrapher who teaches at Cooper Union. She pointed out to
    me that writing slanted is convenient to the hand, but not to the eye. For the
    eye, upright is easier to read. \r\n\r\nThe Carolingian Miniscule, the basis of
    lower case, is a formal hand that is slower to write, more unnatural to the hand,
    and more readable. It also has serifs on both sides of the bottoms of the strokes
    (and the tops of uvwxy), which are also slower to write, and perhaps more readable.\r\n\r\nOverall,
    hand writing cannot achieve the same evenness of color that type does. This was
    a key advance of Jenson and Griffo, who realized that making type more evenly
    colored than hand writing would make it more readable. And this is why typographic
    letters are almost always different from pen-written letters. (I am not speaking
    of built up letters. of course, which can be typographic.)    \r\n\r\nThe roman
    lower case, then, is essentially a pen-written script modified for more even color.
    So the truth here, I think, is as Van Krimpen put it, that type is not 'chirographic',
    but it always retains an underlying influence, an \"underlying force\" of the
    pen.   This is why, contrary to Hrant, I think it is valuable to be aware what
    the pen might do and as you are designing letters when you are violating 'pen
    rules', which is very often.        \r\n"
  created: '2006-05-22 17:17:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> has a limit in terms of the functionality\r\n\r\nThat's another way of
    putting it.\r\nAnd a functionality that's at the heart of text face design: readability.\r\n\r\nMore:
    When you focus on marking the black (whether with a broad-pen or a seashell dipped
    in avocado juice) the white can only be subservient. And we don't read the black,
    but the relationship between black and white** (which is defined by the outlines)
    so that's bad.\r\n\r\n** Especially in the parafovea, which I believe accounts\r\nfor
    about 2/3-rds of fully immersive reading.\r\n\r\nAn entertaining way of looking
    at this (leading off from Nick's \"unexpected\") is a certain maritime analogy
    that I'm fond of: chirography limits any seafaring exploration to your own continent,
    because you have to hug the coast*. In contrast, armed with an astrolabe (an understanding
    of readability) you can cross the vast oceans by using the mysterious night sky,
    and hopefully (although not certainly) discover a new continent. It's just that
    adventurers are a rare breed - although sometimes they get lost at sea...\r\n\r\n*
    Adding that this continent is really 99% mapped already.\r\n\r\n> we haven\u2019t
    really heard any specific discussion of techniques\r\n> in type design that reveal
    just what those limitations are.\r\n\r\nIt's hard enough just to overcome the
    knee-jerk defense mechanisms.  :-)\r\n\r\nIn fact in my experience discussing
    specific letterform features (like trapping, or non-ductal stroke weight distribution)
    generally results in a pro-chirography designer stating \"hey, I can make that
    shape with a pen!\" And you certainly can, if you manage the necessary contortions
    very carefully. You can also get around by crawling on your back, naked. The question
    is, what's the point? I think most often the point is sadly just an artistic indulgence,
    at the expense of the user.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-22 17:30:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> misleading\r\n\r\nIf that's the case, it's certainly not intentional.\r\nI
    think what happens is I sometimes lose patience with the necessarily complex\r\nideas/expressions,
    and over-simplify things.* Peter quite often re-casts my ideas\r\nin a more elaborate
    and balanced way (although some people then find\r\nthe statements difficult to
    fathom) and I'm thankful for that.\r\n\r\n* Hey, if Emigre can do it...\r\n\r\n>
    broader verticals\r\n> serifs\r\n> ...\r\n\r\nYes, those are all artifacts of
    chirography. But that's all. We can and should incorporate what features we think
    help, but any chirographic origin is simply moot, because we don't really use
    pens to communicate any more. When you give too much credence to chirography (by
    saying things like \"it always retains an underlying influence\" - talk about
    misleading) it just holds you back. It's a dysfunctional romanticism.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-22 17:55:26'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> but any chirographic origin is simply moot\r\n\r\nFont(s) with chirographic
    origin? "
  created: '2006-05-22 18:32:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>we don\u2019t read the black, but the relationship between black and
    white</em>\r\n\r\nWell of course, one can't exist without the other.\r\nBut we
    DO read the black (unless the type is reversed), in the sense that we read a figure
    against a ground. This is why Bodoni can be problematic, because the vertical
    black strokes are similar in weight to the vertical white spaces between them,
    and a 50/50 figure-ground relationship makes for nasty notan, ambiguous gestalt.
    \r\n\r\nThe serifs that a broad nibbed pen create serve to disambiguate the relationship
    between figure and ground by giving the figure more \"masculinity\".\r\n\r\nAnd
    the angled stress of the broad pen also serves to disambiguate positive and negative,
    by accentuating the differences between the \"figurality\" of each. Consider the
    potential figures in this chirographic \"c\":\r\n1. The positive figure, schematized
    as a line running along the spine of the glyph (far right).\r\n2. The negative
    outside figure -- not very apparent, and not schematized.\r\n3. The negative counter
    figure, schematized as the boundary between positive and negative (centre).\r\nIt
    can be seen that the negative figure is more angular than the positive and differently
    skewed, and these qualities -- presumed to be instrumental in a notan/gestalt
    theory of readability -- are a direct result of chirographic structure. Functional,
    not romantic.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ccc_3800.jpg]"
  created: '2006-05-22 19:59:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> one can\u2019t exist without the other.\r\n\r\nAnd rich land-owners couldn't
    exist without slaves.\r\nBut that's not harmonious, and that's not my point.\r\n\r\n>
    we read a figure against a ground.\r\n\r\nNot immersively.\r\n\r\nAlso, letters
    don't have skeletons. That's just our consciousness\r\ndesperate to impose a minimal,
    easier-to-control Modernism.\r\nIn contrast, reading is a feral beast.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-22 20:08:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Not immersively.</em>\r\n\r\nThe basic mechanics of shape recognition
    apply to all acts of vision, including immersive reading.\r\nYou either see the
    vase or the faces, not both at once. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OpIll_5552.jpg]\r\n\r\n<em>letters
    don\u2019t have skeletons.</em>\r\n\r\nI schematized the positive figure as the
    shape of its central spine, being an average of the two sides. Do letters not
    have shapes? "
  created: '2006-05-22 20:25:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">The serifs that a broad nibbed pen create serve to disambiguate the relationship
    between figure and ground ...And the angled stress of the broad pen also serves
    to disambiguate positive and negative, by accentuating the differences \r\n\r\nVery
    interesting, Nick. Is it true? I don't know. But my point about awareness is that
    we don't really yet understand fully what are the advantages and disadvantages
    of the pen-written moving front. \r\n\r\nMy basic problem with Hrant's view is
    that it pretends to more knowledge than any of us, including Hrant, have. So when
    we mess around with, eg. the pen-influenced traditional stress on the Cap A or
    M, we'd better be aware of it, and see whether we are making things better or
    worse. \r\n\r\nIt isn't a matter of romanticism, but just appropriate modesty,
    and appreciation of the strength of the hundreds of years' tradition of people
    making typographic letters, and the thousands of years before that of pen-written
    letters. "
  created: '2006-05-22 20:37:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, you're confusing deliberation and immersion.\r\n\r\n> it pretends to
    more knowledge\r\n\r\nOr maybe it does not pretend that fact and opinion are different.\r\n\r\n>
    So when we mess around with, eg. the pen-influenced traditional\r\n> stress on
    the Cap A or M, we\u2019d better be aware of it\r\n\r\nThere is no \"mess around\",
    because the autority of the pen is spurious.\r\nAnd it impedes for example the
    possibility that a symmetrical \"A\" (which\r\nis not the same thing as a contrast-less
    \"A\") might be better. Tradition is\r\nas often a shackle as it is a wellspring.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-22 22:09:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, you\u2019re confusing deliberation and immersion.</em>\r\n\r\nNo
    I'm not. \r\nI haven't been addressing that distinction.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    as far as I'm concerned, learning to read is deliberative, but after that it's
    all immersive. "
  created: '2006-05-22 22:49:03'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"Notan being what we read.\"\r\n\"We don\u2019t read the black, but the
    relationship between black and white.\"\r\n\r\nI must confess, I don't know what
    these statements mean.\r\nDo they mean that both the black of the letters and
    the white of the word have cue value, so that inside the bounded map it is wrong
    to talk about which is figure and which is ground, because both the shapes of
    the whites inside the bounded map and the aggregate pattern of the strokes are
    active in the making of the perceptual decision about the identity of the word?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-05-22 23:22:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">it does not pretend that fact and opinion are different.\r\n\r\nThe reality
    does not bend to suit our opinion, but remains stubbornly what it is. A person
    may have the opinion that he can jump off the roof and fly if he flaps his arms.
    But if he tries it he will find out too late that the facts are different. \r\n\r\nWhat
    do you mean by \"optimal formation of notan, which is the unity and relation of
    black and white\"? I never see you give specifics on what makes for good and bad
    notan. Without at least some examples and better yet some principles, your invective
    about written characters hurting notan seems to me to be too vague to address
    meaningfully.  \r\n\r\nI am not questioning that a good relationship between black
    and white is important, but I personally don't have a general theory about the
    relationship that tell me by a principle, rather than eye, 'this is good, this
    is not good'. Do you have any such theory?  "
  created: '2006-05-22 23:22:42'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Too much theory. Font(s) with/without chirographic origin?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-23 00:06:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "David, as I said, all fonts have chirographic origin in the sense that our
    letters are a modification of hand written letters. How far they are from these
    origins is indeed a matter of theory--what you count as indicators of the 'hand'
    or not. \r\n\r\nCertainly Adobe Jenson would normally be regarded as having more
    of the hand in it than Futura. But even Futura thins the joins of round to stem
    severely. Is this 'chirographic'? I don't know. That is why I was asking for specifics
    from Hrant, which I guess you are also.  "
  created: '2006-05-23 00:58:00'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "Hrant, not to even pretend to expertise on this topic, but what can you possibly
    mean by writing that \"the authority of the pen is spurious\"?\r\n\r\nIt doesn't
    at all contradict the idea that we need both figure and ground to read to state
    what seems to me to be obvious: One of the stubborn realities of the world is
    that it is easier to use something smaller to make marks on something larger.\r\n\r\nThe
    way you're arguing, it's as if there were at some period in human history a live
    choice between filling in the small \"positive\" spaces and filling in the large
    \"negative\" spaces to make writing shapes, and that the chirographists (chirophants?)
    won out and then proceeded to marginalize the other option, much as did the manufacturers
    of internal-combustion automobiles over the electric-car manufacturers at the
    start of the twentieth century. Is this your position?"
  created: '2006-05-23 15:36:08'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Are there any other types designed by Gerrit Noordzij besides Caecilia? I
    belive that Lucas de Groot was a student of his also, and his Thesis type family
    is one of my all-time favorites. If these types are the result of a chirographic
    inspired design process, then they are very pleasing to my eyes anyway. Theory
    is fine, but at the end of the day unless it's applied it's just.. theory.
  created: '2006-05-23 20:52:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Caecilia was designed by G. Noordzij''s son. Many outstanding type designers
    were inspired by G. Noordzij, as I understand. '
  created: '2006-05-23 21:33:21'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: Chris, TEFF's Ruse is Gerrit Noordzij's.
  created: '2006-05-24 00:38:39'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: 'type basics: <a href="http://typeworkshop.com/index.php?id1=type-basics&id2=&id3=&id4=&id5=&idpic=04#pictloader">calligraphy</a>'
  created: '2006-05-24 00:48:54'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "As far as I can see, the criticisms of current type on this site are never
    accompanied by concrete examples of improvements. The criticisms, at their best,
    seem to be accompanied by hypotheses that may or may not be born out by research,
    research that may or may not happen, and by imagined type faces that nobody has
    brought into existence. \r\n\r\nDavid Hamuel has asked for a concrete demonstration
    of some of what has been said in this thread. That sounds like a completely reasonable
    request. Yet his post is being ignored. \r\n\r\nI am new to this, but I am not
    completely stupid. There is a major disconnect between the criticisms and concrete
    demonstration of those criticisms, let alone a demonstration of improvements.\r\n\r\nWithout
    commenting on anyone else, it seems to me that Nick Shinn writes in plain English
    and says things that seem to make a great deal of sense.\r\n\r\nI'd really like
    to know whether the critics are saying that they can produce better results, now,
    or whether they are saying that they need to do research to determine whether
    they can or can't produce better results.  I do realise that this question arguably
    goes beyond this particular thread, and butts up against another current thread,
    but it seems to me that the question is common to both.    \r\n\r\nAnyway, I have
    to leave off now in order to watch the Edmonton Oilers go 3-0 against Annaheim
    :)\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-24 01:06:42'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I agree that calligraphy is limited in its applicability to type, but it
    also has value in getting designers comfortable with making letters at all. I've
    seen plenty of novice designs that reveal not only a vague grasp on letterforms,
    but a nearly crippling inability to draw, to produce marks of any kind. \r\n\r\nFor
    those who hope to design typefaces, I think anyone who has done some calligraphy,
    drawing, life drawing, cartooning, graffiti, drafting, or other hand work has
    a distinct advantage. If nothing else, hand skills get people used to representing
    ideas visually. Without the hand skills, it's apparently quite a struggle. \r\n\r\nCalligraphy
    deals not only with making marks and shapes but also letter proportion, overshoot,
    consistency of stroke, and spacing. Of all those hand skills, calligraphy offers
    the most advantages to a hopeful type designer. "
  created: '2006-05-24 01:17:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "David, redge: FF Legato.\r\nhttp://typographi.com/000969.php\r\n\r\nMore
    soon. Much, hopefully.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-24 01:25:37'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "Surely the thread about blackletters in Mexico says plenty about calligraphy,
    and its vibrancy.    Participants in this site were falling all over themselves
    with admiration for the project that was the subject of that thread.  Was that
    a temporary, or misguided, infatuation?\r\n\r\nNot to mention graffitti artists,
    Basquiat being an obvious example, if only because his work hangs in major galleries
    and his life has been immortalized in a feature film made by a fellow artist."
  created: '2006-05-24 01:27:26'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "No type ever designed for text has glyphs that are just the product of a
    moving front, so chirography in type is a matter of degree. Furthermore, as Nick's
    admirable c shows, divergence between exterior and interior axes is not just possible
    but natural in type pretty faithful to the broad nib. As long as the designer
    understands which is the means and which the end, there's not a problem. If he
    doesn't, the danger is that he restricts himself unnecessarily to just a subset
    of the possibilities for black-white tension, and uncritically accepts other properties
    given glyphs by the broad nib, like line weight at certain angles, as a package.
    I also agree with Hrant that the idea of a skeleton inside the glyph isn't useful.\r\n\r\nRedge,
    I think you'll come to find that you appreciate different qualities in text and
    display. It's normal to acquire an interest and independent taste in display type
    first, which may or may not drift towards or expand to include text type. This
    isn't just an intellectual thing either, one's immediate aesthetic responses change.
    Neither is it a matter of a binary switch: I now find good type most attractive
    when set a good deal smaller than I did eight months ago. And I don't want to
    sound patronising: I'm also new to all this, and am horrified at earlier versions
    of my typo-critical self that are still fresh in the memory. Presumably this iterating
    self-disgust will continue for some time yet :-). PS: my opinion of W&P is pretty
    much Tolstoy's own: he was a hard-nosed moralist as well as a great artist, and
    he freely (and by the end almost wholly) gave up aesthetic virtues for ethical
    ones, even denying that W&P was a novel at all. AK was the book that was meant
    to be (and was, limitlessly) beautiful."
  created: '2006-05-24 02:16:56'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "George,\r\n\r\nI've got news for you.\r\n\r\nI am principally interested
    in text rather than display and I have no idea why you would think that the reverse
    would be \"natural\".  In my case, what's natural is that I'm working on a book,
    not posters. This is what is known as real life. \r\n\r\nI do not know what \"binary
    switch\" means, except that it is not what I consider to be English.\r\n\r\nWhen
    a person says that he does not mean to sound patronising, it is a certain sign
    that he is about to sound precisely that.\r\n\r\nFinally, I don't understand why
    you want to get into a debate about Tolstoy and, if I understand your post in
    another thread, about the relative merits of Tolstoy and Nabokov. I wasn't looking
    for, and am still not looking for, that debate.\r\n\r\nFor one thing, it has nothing
    to do with what we are talking about. For another, I would rather talk about Nabokov's
    Dozen, or Pnin, etc. With someone whose working assumption is that I may have
    an IQ over 50. \r\n\r\nEdmonton just scored two quick goals in succession. It's
    3-0 over Annaheim."
  created: '2006-05-24 03:18:32'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "George,\r\n\r\nI've got news for you.\r\n\r\nI am principally interested
    in text rather than display and I have no idea why you would think that the reverse
    would be \"natural\".  In my case, what's natural is that I'm working on a book,
    not posters. This is what is known as real life. \r\n\r\nI do not know what \"binary
    switch\" means, except that it is not what I consider to be English.\r\n\r\nWhen
    a person says that he does not mean to sound patronising, it is a certain sign
    that he is about to sound precisely that.\r\n\r\nFinally, I don't understand why
    you want to get into a debate about Tolstoy and, if I understand your post in
    another thread, about the relative merits of Tolstoy and Nabokov. I wasn't looking
    for, and am still not looking for, that debate.\r\n\r\nFor one thing, it has nothing
    to do with what we are talking about. For another, I would rather talk about Nabokov's
    Dozen, or Pnin, etc. with someone whose working assumption is that I may have
    an IQ over 50. \r\n\r\nEdmonton just scored two quick goals in succession. It's
    3-0 over Annaheim."
  created: '2006-05-24 03:20:44'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "A switch is a change in state; \"binary\" means that the thing changed has
    two possible states.\r\n\r\nYou did not \"understand [my] post in another thread\".
    Even had I intended a debate, it was yours to drop; you preferred to muse, after
    misquoting me, that \"the conclusions that I draw are, of course, a different
    matter :)\". Now that's a disingenuous emoticon."
  created: '2006-05-24 03:32:53'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "George,\r\n\r\nI've got news for you.\r\n\r\nI am principally interested
    in text rather than display and I have no idea why you would think that the reverse
    would be \"natural\".  In my case, what's natural is that I'm working on a book,
    not posters. This is what is known as real life. \r\n\r\nI do not know what \"binary
    switch\" means, in the context in which you are using the phrase, except that
    it is not what I consider to be English.\r\n\r\nWhen a person says that he does
    not mean to sound patronising, it is a certain sign that he is about to sound
    precisely that.\r\n\r\nFinally, I don't understand why you want to get into a
    debate about Tolstoy and, if I understand your post in another thread, about the
    relative merits of Tolstoy and Nabokov. I wasn't looking for, and am still not
    looking for, that debate.\r\n\r\nFor one thing, it has nothing to do with what
    we are talking about. For another, I would rather talk about Nabokov's Dozen,
    Pnin, Speak Memory, etc. With someone whose working assumption is that I may have
    an IQ over 50. \r\n\r\nEdmonton just scored two quick goals in succession. It's
    3-0 over Annaheim."
  created: '2006-05-24 03:37:47'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: You've tried to edit your post to add another Nabokov title to a would-be
    throwaway list! Unbelievable...
  created: '2006-05-24 03:58:11'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "George, cool your heels. \r\n\r\nFor some reason, perhaps because I am posting
    from a BlackBerry, I have triple-posted.\r\n\r\nSorry about that. \r\n\r\nThe
    difference between the posts is pretty insignificanct (I was doing a minor edit),
    although there was one major change. Edmonton won game three 5-4.\r\n\r\nGiven
    that you are a self-professed fan of Nabokov, I added the reference to Speak,
    Memory not to be nefarious, but because I thought that you might find it amusing. "
  created: '2006-05-24 04:02:52'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: But anyway, THIS THREAD is about the value of chirography as an approach to
    type design.....
  created: '2006-05-24 17:04:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u201CWe don\u2019t read the black, but the relationship between black
    and white.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nHrant, I like this idea, but I would qualify it by
    saying that we see in many ways, so it's quite possible that we are aware of a
    figure, and a figure-ground relationship, simultaneously, as two different phenomena.\r\n\r\nSomething
    may be going on at the level of ocular micro tremor. OMT occurs at around 86 Hz,
    and is presumed to function to prevent image fade by constantly stiumulating the
    retina. However, as has been noted by Paul Kainen, it also registers patterns,
    by creating an interference field.\r\nhttp://www.georgetown.edu/faculty/kainen/topoliss.pdf\r\nPage
    8-9.\r\n\r\nRaph's Fourier analyses (shown on Typophile last year) demonstrate
    that repetitive texture is a quality of typography.\r\n\r\nTherefore, it seems
    reasonable that OMT would play a role in the global perception of type in mass
    layout, rather than through sequential reading with normal saccades.\r\n\r\nThere
    needs to be some explanation of why a skilled proofreader can look at a page of
    text and spot a typo immediately. So I hypothesize that learning to read fluently
    exploits OMT to perceive certain qualities of text globally, and that the rhythm
    or text color that typographers speak of is part of this awareness.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-24 17:16:34'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "Hrant mentioned his dislike of Noordzij's theory in another thread. To avoid
    a discussion in a thread not suitable for the subject I was sent here.\r\n\r\nI
    must say I find this discussion rather strange. I think it's good to discuss both
    advantages and limitations of calligraphy but I don't think it even should be
    relied on completely. As such, I don't understand people's discontent with chirography.\r\n\r\nI
    have to admit I sometimes do some calligraphy to find interesting letter shapes
    but I haven't used any of them yet. My process \u2014 so far, anyway \u2014 is
    completely digital. I think I don't even need to rely on chirography because we
    have hundreds of years of typefaces based on chirography, and typefaces based
    on chirography-based typefaces and so forth. It's really strange to me to disregard
    its value.\r\n\r\nI thought Noordzij's theory was very enlightening and in a way
    it made my world of type design richer. However that doesn't mean people should
    rely on it, but it has given me great insight in how letters are constructed and
    how they behave, and furthermore gives me the liberty to consciously break type
    design rules.\r\n\r\nYou would also think that calligraphy couldn't possibly bring
    new shapes anymore, but I completely disagree with that as well. My high contrast
    sans grotesque 'Dagon Sans' was inspired by calligraphic principles, and I also
    have a several calligraphic letter forms on paper which could potentially be the
    basis for new typefaces. For example, I made an 'a' with an unconventional serif
    and weight build-up but it looks very nice. I wouldn't know if it works at all
    throughout a complete typeface, but I think that's the fun of chirography.\r\n\r\nI
    also wonder if a typeface like Legato could've been developed at all without a
    chirographic approach.\r\n\r\n> Basically, it favors the black bodies of letters
    (by tying the two edges of the\r\n> black, via a marking tool/metaphor) and this
    impedes the optimal formation of notan\r\nThat's assuming you're using your calligraphic
    pen in a fixed position instead of subtly  rotate. Also, why would you assume
    a type designer wouldn't fix these parallel lines digitally?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: WPM
    body: "I recently did Dave Crossland's Crafting Type workshop in Portland, and
      he presented this quote from Gerry Leonidas (dept. head of the Type Design MA
      at Reading): \"Type design is layering forms derived from personal expression
      onto an underlying structure of patterns derived from convention and typographic
      technology.\" \r\n\r\nI wouldn't want to suggest there's a rivalry where there
      really isn't one, but it does seem like the KABK and Reading, the two dominant
      typeface design programs in the world, have approaches that differ in fundamental
      ways, the KABK's firmly rooted in Noordzij's theory of the stroke, versus Reading's
      approach -- from what I've heard from past students, and from the quote above
      -- being more connected to the ideas of layering forms and patterns, although
      Noordzij's ideas certainly are taken into account. I'm doing the Type@Cooper
      program this summer, the condensed one with Hannes Famira and Just van Rossum,
      so I'm guessing this will be more like the KABK's approach since they both studied
      with Noordzij.\r\n\r\nMy personal take (and this is liable/likely to change,
      or at least evolve, in the future): the Noordzij approach seems really useful
      for a singular, focused approach towards gaining an ingrained hand-eye understanding
      of letterforms. As someone with fairly decent bezier drawing skills and computer
      skills in general, the sketching/calligraphy bit is the part I would really
      like to gain an understanding of. But I also would never want to become a fervent
      disciple of The Stroke and The Stroke alone -- it just seems like a good foundation.
      I think of it sort of like drawing classes in most design programs. You will
      probably never be asked to illustrate a bowl of fruit or a draped sheet in charcoal
      during your career, but gaining that fundamental understanding of form and graphic
      interpretation is key to being able to move on to more common forms of illustration."
    created: '2013-03-22 16:07:54'
  created: '2012-02-12 17:06:54'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Personally, I think that the design space between Times Roman, Corona, Baskerville,
    Caslon, Century Expanded, Cloister Lightface, and Caledonia needs to be more fully
    explored, as I think that some typefaces closer to \"optimal\" or at least \"invisible\"
    - wide Scotch Romans, like Number Eleven - have gotten lost or remain to be designed.\r\n\r\nThe
    novel and startling need to be explored <em>too</em>, because with a larger range
    of possibilities, we can find more things, but I think that even in the world
    of typefaces that people read without a second thought, there is room for a bit
    more fine-tuning to make the process of reading go even more smoothly. And that
    means typefaces that impose no noticeable surprises.\r\n\r\nEven if the serifs
    might look very novel when placed under a powerful magnifying glass.\r\n\r\nSo
    putting chirography aside is low on my list of priorities."
  created: '2013-03-22 20:01:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I cannot see the issue as being chirography vs. non-chirography. As humans,
    we have thousands of years of being to fill our visual literacy pools.  There
    is no need to exclude anything just as their is no need to overemphasize anything
    at the expense of closing doors to other potentials.  Where ever you study, or
    with whomever you study, understand that there is always more than that to see.  Open
    doors, do not close doors.  Always question your teachers--most will welcome your
    inquiry (those who don't may be guarded in their answers).  We are all enquiring
    systems.  We only feed our curiosity when we question.  No one source is totally
    correct. Being totally correct may not be a virtue at any rate. Think of yourself
    as a growing organism that is fead by exposure to many things. You are not on
    a straight path to righteousness, you are on a meandering array of streams of
    stimuli that have no clear resting point.  Keep sailing.
  created: '2013-03-22 21:10:09'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: The most salient post in this thread Chris! The myopic teacher is only good
    to his sycophant(ic) student!
  created: '2013-03-22 23:40:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I just realized that I replied to Josh's post but have ignored interesting
    contributions that came before; I hope to rectify that soon. But for now let me
    keep this particular train rolling.\r\n\r\nJohn, there indeed remain some unexplored
    corners of the Chirographic Continent, and it's entirely possible that some of
    those corners might contain gold; but when it seems much more promising -if also
    risky- to cross over to other continents, it just seems wasteful not to; our time
    on this earth is not unlimited. Also, to me most chirographic designers don't
    seem sufficiently preoccupied with discovery - they generally seem principally
    interested in elaboration/refinement. To me that's good for business more than
    it's good for culture.\r\n\r\nBTW: http://typophile.com/node/31095\r\n\r\nChris,
    first of all, philosophically I do agree with you. The thing is, when you say
    \"there is no need to overemphasize anything at the expense of closing doors\",
    looking at the output of  KABK students there does seem to be a single door that's
    left much more open to the students than any other door; Reading isn't like that.\r\n\r\nBut
    beyond that, practically speaking one tries to balance exploration and production,
    and the latter requires you to adopt a stance, so you can actually make something.
    This doesn't mean the stance is Perfect, and it doesn't mean changing you mind
    is evil. But being a 100% relativist is guaranteed to leave you with zero usable
    output.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-23 06:11:05'
- author:
    name: hashiama
    picture: 112147
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nWhat on earth do you mean by \"our humanism\" ???"
  created: '2013-03-23 11:29:42'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It's clear that Bifur is non-chirographic, and so is Calypso.\r\n\r\nI'd
    say that even Helvetica, Peignot Bold, Eurostile, and Optima, for example, are
    not all that chirographic, despite being relatively conventional. They're neither
    overtly calligraphic, nor conventional serif fonts, already at one remove from
    calligraphy. Since they're perfectly legitimate faces, I will readily agree that
    type designers can escape from being tightly bound to calligraphy.\r\n\r\nThen
    there are the display faces that look like MICR characters or 5 x 7 dot-matrix
    characters.\r\n\r\n@hrant:\r\n<cite>Also, to me most chirographic designers don't
    seem sufficiently preoccupied with discovery - they generally seem principally
    interested in elaboration/refinement. To me that's good for business more than
    it's good for culture.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, good for business can be good for culture;
    art that is valued contributes, while art that is discarded and forgotten does
    not.\r\n\r\nBut I really don't think we have a shortage of innovative and experimental
    type designs. The \"high art\" tradition, where the focus is on doing something
    that's never been done before, instead of on craftsmanship building in a small
    way on what one's predecessors have accomplished, is very much alive and well
    - and present in type design, despite the presence of craftsmanlike thinking there
    as well.\r\n\r\nThere's a place for both types of endeavors, and it doesn't make
    sense to ask those in one camp to move to another. On the other hand, if you are
    deploring the lack of designs aimed at mainstream purposes that make use of innovative
    ideas - that show that a typeface can be an effective tool to convey information
    without being solely steeped in tradition - then I don't disagree with the sentiment.
    I would just point out Optima as something I consider to be one of the few exceptions
    to that, to show there is some cross-fertilization between the avant-garde and
    the mainstream, even if it is limited and slow.\r\n\r\nEDIT: Further thought on
    this issue is bringing me around to acknowledging the importance of the issue,
    rather than just feeling you are being impatient.\r\n\r\nIt's natural for designers
    who are aiming at the utility of their product to stick with what is tried and
    true, and it's also natural for those whose purpose is \"Hey! Look at me!\" not
    to try and design typefaces that avoid being distracting (a near-prerequisite
    to usefulness), but these tendencies, natural though they are, <em>are</em> potentially
    sufficiently limiting that it does make sense to urge a conscious effort to resist
    them on both sides of that divide."
  created: '2013-03-23 12:44:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Business and Culture are certainly not diametrically opposed, they're more
    like at 120 degrees. Any creative act is a vector in that span. And in a Democracy
    the larger the vector the faster it will shift towards Business.\r\n\r\nIt goes
    without saying that liminographic (better than \"anti-chirographic\") fonts are
    nothing new, in fact considering the medium in a way they're the rule; even when
    you scan & trace a font out of actual calligraphy, something shifts. My contention
    is that overall we remain firmly under the strong illusion of chirography. Evidence?
    Formal education in type design. Even at Reading it's a bit too strong.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>it
    doesn't make sense to ask those in one camp to move to another.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    don't see it as camps - any individual is an admixture of opposing beliefs, constantly
    reconciling them so he can continue breathing. When I preach liminography, I'm
    not targeting anybody in particular; mostly it just feels like a duty to counterbalance
    the pervading illusion.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I really don't think we have a shortage
    of innovative and experimental type designs.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nActually, there
    is a growing undercurrent of discontent there. Ruxandra Duru's paper* is a great
    read in this respect, with Thomas Huot-Marchand decrying a new conservatism, and
    Jefferey Keedy going much further in calling this era \"the new dark ages\". You
    don't have to be a fan of every product of the 90s to miss its presence in some
    ways. We need many more Legatos and Fenlands.\r\n\r\n* http://ruxandra-duru.com/web/pdf/Ruxandra_Duru_type_foundries_today.pdf\r\n\r\nWei,
    that was bad, sorry.  :-)\r\nWhat I meant was that our consciousness enjoys the
    grid, but it goes against the needs of our \"deeper\" human self.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-23 16:29:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Do note that Crafting Type is skewed heavily towards Reading, considering
    its instructors - and instructors do influence their students (even if they don't
    want to). That said, I personally think that -if you're not careful- the Noordzij
    approach can become a \"foundation\" the way cement shoes are a foundation...
    \ :-/\r\n\r\nKABK seems to be incredibly good at getting student to quickly produce
    highly polished, salable fonts in a certain style. Reading doesn't do that as
    well, as quickly; but to me education isn't about production. When I was invited
    to speak to the Reading students this past June, and got to talk more deeply with
    their instructors concerning how they like to teach, I was very happy to see how
    they try so hard to let the student develop their own views, in fact at the expense
    of passing along theirs; the students attest to this as well. Most people simply
    can't produce high-quality fonts in one year without the instructors exerting
    an undue influence. And I personally always want to see new people in type design,
    not proxies of existing people.\r\n\r\nRelated - see my comment here:\r\nhttp://typographica.org/typeface-reviews/quintet/\r\n\r\nYou
    will undoubtedly learn much from Type@Cooper. But if you take a pinch (more like
    a bag :-) of salt with you you'll be able to apply what you learn in much more
    culturally valuable ways, at least the way I see things.\r\n\r\nBTW if all goes
    well I'll be teaching at the LA edition of Type@Cooper. And I'll bring the salt.
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-24 14:14:37'
date: '2006-05-21 03:08:16'
title: What's so wrong with the chirographic approach?

---
