---
author:
  name: stevenswift45
  picture: 111602
body: can any one here create me a really cool design for   "Dratakis"  its my bands
  name  were looking for like a 80s metal look if you know what i mean.  we want it
  to be pretty simple but look really good like how metallica is .  all tehre letters
  are plain but the m and a really set it off.
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You'll have to at least barter something.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-23 04:31:43'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: A free copy of the debut album will probably do. IYKWIM.
  children:
  - author:
      name: stevenswift45
      picture: 111602
    body: alright bro
    created: '2006-05-23 04:47:40'
  created: '2006-05-23 04:36:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Drtks_4940.jpg]'
  created: '2006-05-23 06:18:05'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: "Is this a contest (Halleluja!) or do you also intend to pay someone for doing
    this?\r\n\r\nJ\xFCrgen Weltin"
  created: '2006-05-23 09:38:52'
- author:
    name: track and kern
  body: 'A few of the other forums I belong to take pride in the fact the each user
    has at least 10 different fake accounts for silly things like this. I am not so
    sure that that brand of humor is well tolerated here though. Regardless, I find
    this humorous, while at the same time I sit and shake my head wondering how someone
    would think anyone would just freely give something to someone else. I suppose
    it is possible, but isn''t it always interesting to see how the creative professionals
    are the ones that are the most likely targets. As if this person were saying:
    "oh yeah, this is easy stuff, just whip me up a logotype, ti won''t take you but
    5 minutes." You wouldn''t ask a lawyer to give you a freebie, unless your the
    next OJ Simpson, and I think that the presumptive nature of many individuals is
    rather obtuse. '
  children:
  - author:
      name: michaelbrowers
      picture: 111225
    body: Lawyers on a whole respect their own work more than many designers. I can't
      imagine a lawyer simply giving away his/her service for little to nothing to
      the same extent designers do. Sadly people feel justified in asking for design
      for nothing.. and even more sadly there are designers willing to ablige, which
      only perpetuates the myth that what we do is nothing more than fun and therefor
      we should be willing to design for little to nothing:(
    created: '2006-05-23 13:53:23'
  created: '2006-05-23 10:46:58'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: The true humor here is Nick Shinn's response. He solved the problem and amused
    the rest of us in the process. I hope you enjoy the album Nick.
  created: '2006-05-23 14:07:38'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/drakgm_5705.gif]\r\n\r\nThis is a load
    of rubbish. Five minutes spent."
  created: '2006-05-23 14:23:47'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "Oh and if anyone recons it should be tarted up, I am a Plod'n'Stodge man,
    not a Whirl'n'Swirl. I could have turned the down stroke in the T into a curling
    tail, or even the base line of the S, but I didn't. It was only meant tohave five
    minutes work done on it and thats all I spent.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-23 14:46:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hmmm, Dratakis? That band must be from Crete :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-23 15:12:20'
- author:
    name: noftus
    picture: 111246
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dra_4719.gif]'
  created: '2006-05-23 15:22:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yeah, I know, I don't enter competitions.\r\nWell, occasionally.\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-23 17:25:28'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: "\u2014Rant deleted\u2014"
  created: '2006-05-23 17:44:15'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I think some of you are being unfair here, a barter is offered (at hrant's
    suggestion) if it is not good enough for you then haggle, the situation is clearly
    not the same as a business asking for free work nor is it the case that you would
    be depriving another professional of a fee.\r\nInstead of carping or offering
    analogies just ignore it.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-05-23 19:59:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, the reactions are notably defensive.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-23 20:37:05'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "MODERATOR COMMENT\r\n\r\nI think -- forgive me if my thinking is wrong --
    that many people could simply ignore a thread if they don't agree with the content.
    In a few instances lately some of us have gone too far and forgotten to self-edit
    our opinions and thoughts into useful and respectful posts. It seems to me that
    if something is blatantly wrong or partially wrong it can still be discussed in
    a way which allows for discussion WITHOUT insulting anyone. The world is made
    up of so many varieties of people and we should all respect those differences
    whether we agree with them or not."
  created: '2006-05-23 21:09:23'
- author:
    name: track and kern
  body: I think being defensive here is very valid. I am not merely being rude. I
    disagree with bartering here, on this forum, for a creative work. I agree with
    Michael Browers in saying that this only perpetuates the feeling that "what we
    do is fun" and "we should do it for nothing". Everything posted here, and everything
    posted anywhere else is an opinion. There is no such thing as placing your personal
    thoughts outside of a communicative response, for it will still exist in your
    subconscious, and be heard and or read in your writing or speech. I understand
    how you feel Miss Tiffany, and I understand how you would like to see some of
    us become a little less "insulting", however, I feel that I was merely informing
    and not belittling. I sit and read this thread shaking my head, and all I can
    say now is that if someone does not say something, or make an attempt at preventing
    such "low balling" of the entire design industry, then it truly will evolve, or
    degrade, into something that is only respected as an artistic ability, and not
    a profession.
  created: '2006-05-24 03:28:46'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "I know I am a bit out of my depth here, BUT... I do not recall any mention
    of (quote)\u201Cwe should do it for nothing\u201D (end quote) by the original
    poster. And I, also, get fun out of what I do. So you slave away at something
    you get no fun, or joy, out of ? I really pity you. \r\n"
  created: '2006-05-24 05:16:09'
- author:
    name: track and kern
  body: "Now, this is clearly a comment that the forum could have done without. I
    do what I do for I have passion, and interest in something that most know nothing
    about. There is nothing else in life that makes me happier than typography, design,
    and the like. I neither asked for your pity, nor will I accept it, as pity is
    a waisted emotion. The original author of this thread never mentioned getting
    anything for free, however, as I clearly pointed out, a subsequent author did.
    Perhaps you should re-read my post, as you may find it clarifies your misinterpretation.
    \r\n\r\nI have never created anything in my life with the intent of profiting
    from it, however, one must come to an understanding with reality, and at some
    point make the decision to create [work] type and design as a means of profit."
  created: '2006-05-24 05:51:10'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "I did ....\r\n\r\n\r\nThis portion of message self-edited by author, as he
    determined it was a waste of time replying to a post that should not have been
    placed in this thread in the first instance. \r\n\r\n\r\n.... like you did.\r\n\r\nThis
    post is nether racial, or repulsive, but more an affamation that I to, do have
    views, and not neccessarily right views. "
  created: '2006-05-24 06:02:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The only problem with bartering is it's very hard to tax... Wait, that's
    a <cite>feature!</cite>\r\nIf materialism is not the point of life, then just
    think what hard currency is [not].\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-24 07:03:48'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "quote - The only problem with bartering is it\u2019s very hard to tax\u2026\r\n\r\nEver
    since the agrarians took over they've found a way. From the verdant river deltas\u2026\r\n\r\nTo
    truly accumulate one must stay put.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-24 15:29:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Note that there is a difference between businesses that expect graphic designers
    to do spec work, and a guy in high school (I'm assuming) who's looking for a logo
    for his band.
  created: '2006-05-24 15:51:18'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Nick, I am making the same assumption. The points raised are valid in other
    circumstances.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dratakis_5783.jpg]\r\nI
    am holding out for a cover version of \"What do I get?\" by Buzzcocks:)\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-05-24 15:58:41'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "\"My mind isn't so open that anything can crawl right in.\" - Buzzcocks\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-24 16:01:21'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I deal with people (clients) that often want something for nothing. I find
    myself reminding them that quality isn't always cheap or free. However, I do not
    -- no matter how much they have insulted my idea of what is right and find myself
    defensive -- insult them. Depending upon how far into the project we are, I will
    do one of two things: A) Tell them that perhaps they will have better luck getting
    exactly what they hope for elsewhere or B) Give them exactly what they want, bill
    them, and do not seek them out ever again. But, I don't burn the bridge (entirely)
    as you never know when someone will lead to something else.\r\n\r\nMatthew, I'm
    just as passionate as you are about what I do every day. Even on these forums
    [because of my passion] I've been known to not follow my own suggestions. But
    I try very hard to keep other's in mind and do my best to not insult anyone. \r\n\r\nIf
    someone wants a free copy of a typeface it isn't any different than wanting a
    free logo. I agree with you on this. However, I try to read between the lines
    and check the tone of the post. If the person seems nice (and innocent) enough
    then I try to be nice about it. "
  created: '2006-05-24 17:20:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "On consulting the RGD Rules of Professional Conduct, I'm gonna have to decline
    the barter here and do this pro bono (should my design be accepted), otherwise
    it's speculative and a no-no. Unless everyone who submits a design gets a copy
    of the CD...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-24 17:39:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> RGD Rules of Professional Conduct\r\n\r\nAh, the Protector of the Establishment.\r\nIt's
    such a darn shame I refuse to think of myself as a graphic designer.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-24 17:49:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Dratakis_4766.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-24 17:57:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Ah, the Protector of the Establishment.</em>\r\n\r\nAKA solidarity. Just
    a bunch of freelance and small business folk in an underpaid line of work getting
    together to protect their interests.\r\n\r\nDid I mention education, experience,
    and expertise? Such a darn shame you'd never qualify."
  created: '2006-05-24 18:08:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I meant the West vs the developing world.\r\n\r\nOh, and money-grubbing,
    and selfishness, and... Yes, I don't qualify.\r\nAnd you can keep your education
    in Fine Fart, and your display pimping.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-24 18:18:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I meant the West vs the developing world.</em>\r\n\r\nIn what way are
    the RGD Rules of Professional Conduct representative of the West vs. the Developing
    World? \r\n\r\nSurely the principles of solidarity, of banding together to prevent
    being crushed, and following responsible rules of conduct, are good ones for people
    everywhere to follow?\r\n\r\n<em>money-grubbing, and selfishness</em>\r\n\r\nHow's
    the Baskerville coming?\r\nYou were paid for it, weren't you? Isn't it now somewhat
    selfish to be keeping it to yourself?\r\n\r\n<em>you can keep your education in
    Fine Fart</em>\r\n\r\nRight. No art involved in typography.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-24 18:48:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You have no idea. Times five.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-24 18:51:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>You have no idea. Times five.</em>\r\n\r\nThe mysterious Mr Papazian,
    international man of mystery.\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-24 19:10:16'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>I agree also, that you are \u201Ca bit out of your depth\"</em>\r\n\r\nCheap
    shot. Can we see something of your work to see how you qualify to comment in that
    way?"
  created: '2006-05-25 05:11:22'
- author:
    name: Hamilton
    picture: 111203
  body: "For what it's worth, I'm with Nick and Tim. Good luck with the band, Steven.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dratakis_4622.gif]"
  created: '2006-05-25 12:43:08'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: "Nice <em>Quiffro</em> Hamilton\u2026"
  created: '2006-05-25 13:11:44'
- author:
    name: track and kern
  body: I edited me <i> cheap shot </i> post, as it was made in a rather hasty manner.
    I would like to say though, that I never knew that I had to quantify my expertise,
    experience, or otherwise to any member here before posting to this forum.
  created: '2006-05-26 20:17:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You don't - they're lying.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-26 20:26:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I never knew that I had to quantify my expertise, experience,</em>\r\n\r\nI
    mentioned those (and education) in reference to the qualifications required to
    be a professional member of the RGD:\r\n\r\n<em>You must have graduated from a
    three- or four-year graphic design program and you must have worked as a graphic
    designer for a minimum of three years so that the total of your years of education
    and experience combined is seven. \r\n\r\nYou must then apply to the Examination
    Board for Registered Graphic Designers to determine eligibility to write the Registered
    Graphic Designers Qualification Examination. The Examination Board will review
    your application and confirm that you have met the necessary requirements. If
    you pass the written examination, you must then complete a Portfolio Interview.
    </em>"
  created: '2006-05-26 21:13:44'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: "\"Ah, the Protector of the Establishment. It\u2019s such a darn shame I refuse
    to think of myself as a graphic designer.\" Cheap shot Hrant."
  created: '2006-05-26 21:46:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nice work Hamilton!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-26 21:58:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Maybe I don't know what \"cheap shot\" means...\r\nI sincerely don't like
    the graphic design establishment.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-26 22:00:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I can proudly say that I have been an established graphic designer for over
    45 years.  Like every other profession on earth, we have the normal distribution
    of good, bad, and everything in-between among us. It has absolutely nothing to
    do with the group or the profession and everything to do with the individual.
    Generalizations are a convenient and easy substitute for doing the decent thing
    and getting to know people as individuals--rather than pigeon hole dumping. Any
    person of tolerance and integrity will give each single human the chance to demonstrate
    who they are without being pre-judged by a label imposed on them. I sincerely
    don't like the prejudice establishment.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-26 22:16:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Any person of tolerance and integrity will give each single\r\n> human
    the chance to demonstrate who they are without\r\n> being pre-judged by a label
    imposed on them.\r\n\r\nI agree.\r\nAnd to me the difference between the individual
    and the group\r\nmarks the distinction between prejudice and perceptive judgment.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-26 22:22:15'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: "Hrant, what I meant by \"cheap shot\" was that it was uncalled for. \r\n\r\n\"I
    sincerely don\u2019t like the graphic design establishment.\" What \"establishment\"
    are you referring to? And why do you feel the need to express your dislike for
    such a broad category of people, merely by their chosen vocation?\r\n\r\nI think
    you should evaluate these statements in light of the recent discussion about tolerance
    on this forum. Who you do or do not like is irrelevant. Chris L. it's a shame
    you should have to explain this concept of not pigeonholing people."
  created: '2006-05-26 22:31:56'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Hamilton, great use of that font, whatever it is. \r\n\r\nStevenswift, that
    is about as good as you are liable to get without shelling out some dough. (And
    better than you probably would have got even if you had paid money). Make sure
    you send him a CD.\r\n; )"
  created: '2006-05-26 22:36:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Chris L. it\u2019s a shame you should have to explain\r\n> this concept
    of not pigeonholing people.\r\n\r\nYeah, nevermind what I actually wrote and meant.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-26 22:48:23'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I'm with fontplayer. That is really nice Hamilton. Cool\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-26 22:52:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Hey Steven, what do you think of all this kerfuffle you set in motion? :-)
  created: '2006-05-27 02:26:43'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>kerfuffle</em>\r\n\r\nGreat word. It'd be a cool URL: \r\n\r\n\"If you
    think you know what is going on, you haven't been here long enough.\"\r\n\r\nkerfuffle.com\r\n\r\nNote:
    That quote was actually said to me by someone in the purchasing dept. at McDonnell-Douglas
    Aircraft (since bought by Boeing)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 02:34:11'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>And better than you probably would have got even if you had paid money</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    is something that greatly troubles me about this comment...\r\n\r\n...........\r\n\r\nI
    guess Typophile's Design forum is all set to become the new Craigslist job board,
    where bands ask for logos, promising all kinds of work for the logo designer if
    they \"make it big\". And if they don't, well, the designer has a nice portfolio
    piece, right? Right?\r\n\r\nHaving said that, it seems that the members of Dratakis
    <em>really are</em> in high school...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myspace.com/rockmaniac\r\n\r\nBut
    in my humble opinion, that doesn't excuse them from finding out that designers
    need to make a living, just like everybody else.\r\n\r\nAnd that Typophile is
    not a job board."
  created: '2006-05-27 07:53:30'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>There is something that greatly troubles me about this comment\u2026\r\n...And
    that Typophile is not a job board.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm sorry for the misleading statement.
    I know that what he got isn't going to get him far. I've seen CD art layed out
    for printing, and in essence, all he got was an idea. (Probably too tasteful of
    one for a high school rock band to recognize the value of).\r\n\r\nI was just
    making the point that Hamilton make something cool.\r\n\r\nSome people will do
    something for the fun and joy of doing it. Should they be banned from creating
    things just for the fun of it? \r\n\r\nTrying to be fair, in a forum attended
    heavily by pro designers, maybe...but a high-shooler wouldn't have thought it
    through, certainly."
  created: '2006-05-27 15:10:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If we do it in a classy way, I don't see why\r\nwe shouldn't advertise type
    design jobs here.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 15:15:19'
date: '2006-05-23 04:28:53'
title: can some one create one for me

---
