---
author:
  name: Palatine
  picture: 110988
body: "Which (other) fonts resemble [[feijoa]] the most? It seems to be an especially
  legible and charming font. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.klim.co.nz/content/type/feijoa_01.html"
comments:
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: Which one do you mean?
  created: '2006-05-23 06:14:36'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: There's some Gerard Unger flavour in there -- check DTL Paradox, Coranto and
    the likes.
  created: '2006-05-23 13:08:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And some Poppl too.\r\nBut really, Kris's stuff is pretty inimitable.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-23 13:53:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Kris is trying to get his out the door.  I hope you can just use his.  Have
    you contacted him about it?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-23 15:53:46'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "If you can wait, it will be ready in about a month, hopefully sooner!\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2006-05-24 03:59:31'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "It's a lovely font, and I will certainly purchase it when it's released.\r\n\r\nBravo!\r\n\r\nAny
    info on pricing (if I may be so bold to ask) and cuts/weights?"
  created: '2006-05-25 00:08:16'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: '[[KLIM]] will be distributed by village (www.vllg.com) which has a price
    range from $39-$60 for a single weight. I''d expect the price to fall within that
    range. As for weights, I have no guess.'
  created: '2006-05-25 00:25:59'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "It will have Roman, Italic, Small Caps, Bold & Display cuts. All will have
    nice OT character sets, the language support that we all like to have and pretty
    little ligatures to spice things up a tad. So nothing too large, it is only my
    first one, and I don't want to go overboard. Keep it manageable, y'know?\r\n\r\n\u2014K\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Feijoa_6714.png]"
  created: '2006-05-25 05:01:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "How about Thirsty Metaxa in Basil? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: It lokks
    graet Kris, I am glad you didn't let it die withn you :-)"
  created: '2006-05-25 15:14:12'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Those are some of the most elegant ligatures I've seen. You are quite the
    curve wrangler. Yum!
  created: '2006-05-25 16:02:19'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: No bold italic? As a publication designer, that can be a deal-breaker for
    me.
  created: '2006-05-25 20:55:04'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "\"No bold italic? As a publication designer, that can be a deal-breaker for
    me.\"\r\n\r\nI understand. At this stage, I am just dipping my toes in. If all
    goes well, then I will happily expand the range if needed!\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2006-05-29 08:44:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You are doing the right thing Kris. Get it out there show the world your
    stuff. Your first release does not cut off develpment of more styles. I will be
    looking forward to being a customer.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-29 20:35:29'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Kia Ora, Kris. Every time I think of New Zealand I think of racing yachts
    - those amazing \"Kiwis\" in that famous Defender's Cup black boat, Black Magic,
    NZL 32. Undefeated in competition. I always found that sport fascinating. I have
    a bit of education in that area: White Sail 3 certification. Nothing stellar,
    but give me a bathtub with a sail and I think I can make it to shore alright.
    \  \r\n\r\nAnyway, I see that Feijoa is nearly complete - 91%, apparently. I eagerly
    await this gem. Are there any sample pdfs to tide us over until the release?  "
  created: '2006-06-12 03:50:05'
- author:
    name: Phil Baber
  body: Hmm, looking forward to that. Gorgeous.
  created: '2006-06-12 20:22:09'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "\"Are there any sample pdfs to tide us over until the release?\"\r\n\r\nSorry
    mate, not just yet. I am too close to finishing to make any PDF's, if that makes
    any sense\u2026\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2006-06-14 04:25:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It makes sense to me :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-14 12:22:46'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: So how is this gem coming along? Projected release date?
  created: '2006-07-19 01:39:51'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Well, according to vllg, it's still "<a href="http://typophile.com/node/21324">on
    the horizon</a>."
  created: '2006-07-19 02:16:07'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: "On Kris' updated site, it states it's \"about 91% finished and should be
    ready for release by mid\u2013late 2006\". ;^)"
  created: '2006-07-19 02:25:08'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Hopefully by the end of the month\u2026\r\n\r\n\u2014K "
  created: '2006-07-19 06:08:40'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Feijoa_Czech_5140.png]'
  created: '2006-07-19 06:19:46'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Feijoa_01_4171.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/feijoa_02_5842.png]'
  created: '2006-07-19 06:25:35'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "A few language tests\u2026"
  created: '2006-07-19 06:26:14'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "That lowercase \"b\" is quite an achievement. Very nice touch. And the i-n
    ligature is interesting. I think you pulled that off rather well. One doesn't
    see that sort of ligature very often.\r\n\r\nThese previews look great, but the
    short passage of text you have on your site looks fantastic. "
  created: '2006-07-19 06:42:24'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Kris, \r\n\r\nI love this, and I eagerly anticipate its release. For that
    matter I'm dying for Salamanca, and  Zinc looks worth focusing on as well. I know
    it's a juggle. \r\n\r\nPlease consider making all these ligatures available only
    on a discretionary basis. Some of them seem frankly gratuitous, and they would
    very much hinder extended reading. Especially in languages where lots of accents
    are present, they could really distract.\r\n\r\nIn that context, I do not think
    the unjoined b or q will be strong enough. Is there a reason not to join them,
    considering all the other shapes? They jar me. The serif version of Salamanca
    (it is coming, yes?...) might be the place for such experiments. Otherwise this
    has such nice color and a comfortable feel for reading. Don't stop!"
  created: '2006-07-19 07:14:57'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Yo,\r\n\r\nThese are totally going to be discretionary & stylistic ligs\u2014I
    was trying out uncommon combinations, and it seems to be working. Don't actually
    know if people will use them ,but it amuses me nevertheless! Only a madman would
    put them in as defaults. There is a very good reason for the b & q: I like it
    like that. Perhaps I could include joined versions as calts\u2026\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2006-07-19 08:49:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Friggin fabulous Kris!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-19 12:58:23'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"There is a very good reason for the b & q: I like it like that.\"\r\n\r\nI
    assume you're joking. Such talk angers the gods."
  created: '2006-07-19 18:27:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I rather like the b and q open just as they are--then again, I am just a
    mortal.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-19 18:37:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I am fine with the b p, but something is weird about the screen display of
    the smaller type of your 10:35 posting, at least on my screen. At times the u
    looks wider than the n and at others the n looks wider, and it generally dazzles
    in not a good way. The display on your web site is fine, as Palatine says. '
  created: '2006-07-19 20:26:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Is there a reason not to join them\r\n\r\nDude, don't be such a Modernist.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-19 21:11:56'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Bill: don't worry mate, they are the correct size in vector. This is just
    a quick screen-grab from the InDesign.\r\n\r\nCarl: it was actually the gods that
    suggested that I keep them open, so even talking about closing them will incur
    the wrath of the heavens. Best we don't speak about it\u2026\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2006-07-19 22:01:39'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"Dude, don\u2019t be such a Modernist.\"\r\n\r\nNope, just looking at the
    visual scratchiness those areas create, which I think interrupts the smooth and
    comfortable feel elsewhere. They remind me of letterpress type with scratches
    and nicks. \r\n\r\nHrant, I'm surprised at you; you're always going on about removing
    yourself from type design and working to serve the reader. "
  created: '2006-07-19 22:12:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...the gods that suggested that I keep them open\"\r\n\r\nYou mean she
    talks to you too? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-19 22:18:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Carl, it's more accurate to say that I always go on about <cite><strong>trying</strong>
    to tame oneself</cite> ; and adding that I also always go on about the limits
    (not least in terms of benefits to the reader) of formal aesthetic control. The
    b/d/p/q for example want to be the same largely in the same way that teenage girls
    generally want to be same; which only really benefits people trying to sell ]to[
    them.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-19 22:40:28'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: If you think that is my concern is that vapid, you simply do not see what
    I see.
  created: '2006-07-20 01:08:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, I just think it has trace amounts of vapidity,\r\ndue to external socioprofessional
    conditioning.  :-)\r\nAnd I have some of that too you know.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-20 01:35:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Carl, I share your concern, but I don''t experience the visual interruption
    you do. To me it is like the open loop on the Baskerville g: a stylistic variation
    that doesn''t intrude. Do you think that, for example, the open b in Fedra and
    Fedra Sans also hurts those faces? '
  created: '2006-07-20 01:54:46'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "It looks beautiful from this view: http://www.klim.co.nz/content/type/feijoa_01.html\r\n\r\nI'm
    sure it'll function very nicely on paper."
  created: '2006-07-20 02:47:33'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "William,\r\n\r\nI think Fedra Serif is a suitable environment for the variations
    that you mention, considering the other gaps, stub terminals, angles, and general
    eclecticism there. The b fits, in other words. In the sans, I do not think it
    fits.\r\n\r\nKris may have more to say about this, since we only exchanged quips,
    but the reason he cited (\"I like it like that\") sounds to me like he is attached
    to those gaps for no functional reason, and has not tried eliminating them yet.
    It might be that adding more gaps would somehow make these 2 fit. They could be
    all over: 4 6 8 9 0 A B D H K P Q R U a d e g k p, and that would change the design
    a lot. but given the way the design is working now (and it is working beautifully)
    they don't fit; they are the lone elements that interrupt the flow of reading
    in such an otherwise subtle and pleasing typeface; the soft bracketing, rich color,
    fluid curves, excellent spacing, and the other bowls which resolve differently
    all work on such a different, more subliminal level, that by contrast these 2
    gaps look affected and showy. I invite Kris to try:\r\n\r\nPut more unjoined bowls
    in the design throughout (though leave i-ligatures off while testing),\r\n\r\nor\r\n\r\nclose
    these 2, and examine dispassionately whether anything of value is lost, or if
    something else happens. Is it really important they be there; do they contribute
    anything? \r\n\r\nor\r\n\r\nTurn the unjoined strokes in more, to match the flow
    of the strokes in the bowls of d and p.\r\n\r\nKris' design has so many strengths,
    and one way for typefaces to be resolved fully is for the designer to try many
    things, letting go of favorite elements, and as someone else put it here recently,
    let it become itself. Because of the many unnecessary (confusing? gratuitous?)
    i-ligatures, and because of Kris' stated reason for keeping these cuts, I had
    to at least suggest he try losing them. "
  created: '2006-07-20 04:42:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "For me, showy ligatures look horribly out of place and distracting within
    text. So, Carl, I share your distaste for Kris' i ligatures, at least in the sample
    usage. But since they are discressionary, I don't think it matters. \r\n\r\nYour
    observation on Fedra sans vs serif is interesting. Bil'ak did a 'Fedra sans alt'
    replacing the more unusual characters, including the open b. I wonder if that
    was partly a response to requests from customers--which would tend to confirm
    your view. "
  created: '2006-07-20 14:08:31'
- author:
    name: gareth
    picture: 109885
  body: "This typeface and the design of the ligatures Klim are fantastic.\r\n\r\nWhile
    I am no way near a typograher, and I understand that the overuse of ligatures
    can distort readability, I still find these visually charming. \r\n\r\nI am a
    sucker for using ligatures. Well done.\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-22 12:25:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "KLIM takes a ligging and keeps on tigging :-)\r\nI think it is quite refreshing
    and, since it is discretionary, totally harmless.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-22 18:02:16'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "\"Kris may have more to say about this, since we only exchanged quips, but
    the reason he cited (\u201CI like it like that\u201D) sounds to me like he is
    attached to those gaps for no functional reason, and has not tried eliminating
    them yet.\"\r\n\r\nOf course I haven't tried eliminating them, I see absolutely
    no problem with them. I read text set in type that has similar forms without trouble,
    I read text set in Feijoa without trouble! If they upset you then that is a shame.
    At this stage I am not going to change it. If there is overwhelming feedback that
    supports your concern, then I will consider changing the forms. \r\n\r\n\"The
    designer has to try many things, letting go of favourite elements.\" \r\n\r\nI
    have tried many things, I have let go of favourite elements. But erasing every
    little quirk or detail I like that may not be deemed purely functional will render
    the typeface dull & overworked. I have already spent far too long on this already.
    I cannot help that I want parts of me in there, parts that I like, for designing
    type gives me great pleasure. I cannot work dispassionately, that would kill the
    buzz, especially when it is an uncommissioned typeface. \r\n\r\nI suppose the
    function in these forms is to give me pleasure. \r\n\r\n\"Who would say that pleasure
    is not useful?\"\r\n\u2014Charles Eames.\r\n\r\nThis is an interesting discussion.
    Here are some other forms that are 'unjoined':\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Feijoa_open_4792.png]"
  created: '2006-07-24 21:43:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The spine of the \"8\" seems slightly too stiff.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-24 22:56:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Kris, stick to your guns with this one. It is a fine face as is and needs
    to be out on the market. The world needs more type that pushes the envelope.  We
    have plenty of classic go-by-the-rules broadly accepted faces out there already.
    It is one thing to respect the classic successes of the past; it is another to
    cringe in awe and fear of them. Make your own fonts; make your own pleasure. Be
    who you are proudly.\r\nThere are some people who only like their old sweater
    because they know from years of wear that it suits them and makes them comfy.
    There are plenty of other folks who would just love to have a new sweater to try
    on, break in, and grow to feel comfy in as well.\r\n\r\nGo for it kris!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-24 22:56:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The world needs more type that pushes the envelope.\r\n\r\nAgreed 100%.
    But some envelopes are better than others.\r\nFor a text face, a proper grasp
    and valuation of reading is\r\nmuch more useful (or at least less banal) than
    that of style.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-24 22:59:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am not talking about style and I think this text face has a very firm grasp
    on the valuation of reading.  It is also a damn fine envelope.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-24 23:17:49'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Klim is gorgeous, but I recently had a typeface where I had to do a lot of
    loop jumping to not use the st and ct ligs. I decided that I wouldn''t use that
    typeface again unless I wanted the ligs. I would hope you, Kris, wouldn''t remove
    the quirks, but would allow those of us who are interested in licensing your typeface
    the option of turning them off. '
  created: '2006-07-24 23:19:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">proper grasp and valuation of reading is\r\nmuch more useful (or at least
    less banal) than that of style.\r\n\r\nI think that among highly readable faces
    there is still room for variation in style. One can really only judge readability
    in the intended final use of the face, such as print or screen. But to me it looks
    like the open elements in Feijoa are no obstacle to readability and are pleasing
    stylistic features. \r\n\r\nIf I thought they compromised readability, as Carl
    thinks, I would say that they should be cut--or filled!--but they look fine to
    me. And Kris has a gift for beautiful letters, in evidence here, which is a great
    plus."
  created: '2006-07-24 23:25:26'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: Cheers guys. Like I mentioned earlier, all ligs are either discretionary or
    stylistic OpenType sets. They are easily turned on & off! I wouldn't consider
    them integral to the 'readability' of the face, they are just there for fun.
  created: '2006-07-24 23:38:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> there is still room for variation in style.\r\n\r\nThis is backwards.\r\n\r\n>
    One can really only judge readability in the intended final use of the face\r\n\r\nNo,
    one can only judge readability via an indirect but firm understanding\r\nof how
    humans read; because it relies so fundametally on the subconscious.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-24 23:43:42'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: :^o Maybe I entered the conversation at a bad moment. I didn't realize that
    Kris. If they are discretionary or stylistic then there are ZERO problems cause
    the typeface IS gorgeous.
  created: '2006-07-24 23:49:28'
- author:
    name: Oilver James
  body: 'im really liking fejoa, and if i was klim i wouldnt change a thing. and i
    probably would take any advice from the designer of curlz with a pretty big grain
    of salt. '
  created: '2006-07-25 00:17:23'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Oooh! Zing!  ; )\r\n\r\nBut Oliver, that's not the only design of mine, nor
    is it mine originally. I get credit for it, and for Adobe's woodtype 3 package,
    because I finished them, not because I originated them. Be careful going down
    that path, Oliver. On typophile, where people might seem anonymous, it's a minefield.
    For instance, which are your typefaces?.....  \r\n\r\nChris, and Kris: Hrant is
    catching something I think you both missed: I'm not in any way critiquing the
    style of Feijoa. This design, along with Kris' other designs, absolutely sing
    with style, inventiveness and freshness. Honestly? Kris is one of my favorite
    new typeface designers. But here, where Kris has stated an intention to design
    a text face, style is of secondary importance: ALL my comments refer to the function,
    the performance of it in running text. The style of Feijoa would not be harmed
    by my suggestions. I'm making these comments, not out of cowering fear of breaking
    convention, but to ensure that the style of it is not marred by a flaw in structure.
    \r\n\r\nDespite all this, It sounds like nobody else is having this issue, so
    maybe it will not be a problem after all. I also realize it was earlier this year,
    on a different thread, when Kris solicited free commentary, that I should have
    pointed this out. Apologies, Kris, for throwing a wrench in at the last minute.
    Carry on, and I will welcome Feijoa along with multitudes of others, I am sure.
    As I've said, this design has some qualities that are very rare and very desireable.
    Rich color, deep warmth, and sprightly proportions. Good luck when you get to
    the Village!"
  created: '2006-07-25 03:43:40'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Oliver, I agree with Carl. It's not good form to come onto a forum treading
    on toes right and left, unless you don't really intend on integrating yourself
    as a part of or community.
  created: '2006-07-25 04:08:45'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: Either way, I think Kris has made a customer out of me. :-)
  created: '2006-07-25 04:56:45'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Just tell us, Kris: how do you pronounce Feijoa?  We''ll be asking for it
    by name.... ; )'
  created: '2006-07-25 18:04:58'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.m-w.com/dictionary/feijoa\">Feijoa</a>\r\nFrom Webster's
    Dictionary."
  created: '2006-07-25 18:43:16'
- author:
    name: Village
  body: In my dealings with Kris, he has indicated that the name is pronounced "Fee-Joe-Uh".
  created: '2006-07-25 20:22:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Is that you Chester?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-25 20:33:23'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Village is correct, that is how it is pronounced.\r\n\r\nY'all should see
    if you can get your hands on some of the fruit, it really is very nice!\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2006-07-25 21:50:24'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Great name, nice touch with the allusion to the fruit. And as to the font
    itself, what I'm seeing on your site now (the little passage about Siddhartha,
    most revered teacher), looks absolutely beautiful. It might perform slightly differently
    on paper, but just go with your gut on this one.\r\n\r\nThe more you second-guess
    yourself and over-tweak things, the more it will be to the font's detriment in
    the end. "
  created: '2006-07-25 22:48:24'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Not to bump or anything, but it really is going to be released soon! We are
    just working on the OT implementation & cross-platform compatibility. This is
    a screenshot from the FontExplorer Glyph palette. \r\n\r\nI think it covers the
    following languages: Afrikaans, Albanian, Arumanian, Asturian, Azerbaijani, Basque,
    romanised Belarusian, Bislama, Breton, Bosnian, romanised Bulgarian, romanised
    Burmese, Catalan, Chamorro, Chichewa, Cornish, Croatian, Czech, Danish, Dutch,
    English, Old English, Middle English, Esperanto, Estonian, Faroese, Finnish, French,
    Frisian, Friulian, Galician, German, traditional German, transliterated Greek,
    Greenlandic, Guarani, Hawai'ian, Hungarian, Ibo, Icelandic, Indonesian, Irish
    Gaelic, Italian, romanised Japanese, Kashubian, romanised Kazakh, romanised Korean,
    Kurdish, romanised Kyrgyz, romanised Laotian, Latin, Latvian, Lithuanian, Livonian,
    romanised Macedonian, Malagasy, Maltese, Maori, Marshallese, Moldavian, romanised
    Mongolian, Norwegian, Occitan, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Romansch, romanised
    Russian, Inari Saami, North Saami, Lule Saami, Skolt Saami, South Saami, Samoan,
    Scots, Scottish Gaelic, Slovak, Slovenian, Lower Sorbian, Upper Sorbian, Spanish,
    Traditional Spanish, Swahili, Swedish, Tagalog, romanised Tajik, romanised Tatar,
    Tswana, Tongan, Turkish, romanised Turkmen, romanised Ukrainian, Ulithian, Uzbek,
    Walloon, Welsh, Wolof, Yapese, and many transliterated South Asian languages.\r\n\r\nChur!\r\n\r\n\u2014K\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Feijoa_Regular_Glyphs_copy_4304.gif]"
  created: '2006-09-15 07:50:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Lookin good Kris!  Now you can bump that \"percent completed\" notice up
    to 99.7%?\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-15 12:42:51'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "what? no Greek or Cyrillic?\r\n\r\n;^p"
  created: '2006-09-15 13:26:54'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i was totally kidding about the Greek/Cyrillic. Are we going to see this available
    before the end of the year? or just after the new year?
  created: '2006-12-04 16:53:01'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Hi Paul,\r\n\r\nChester is working on the final font files at the moment.
    With any luck it should be out shortly, hopefully before Christmas! At last\u2026\r\n\r\nI
    also closed up the b & q after seeing it set in offset! So there you go, Carl,
    hopefully that will keep you happy!\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2006-12-06 22:35:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bravo Kris! Your long day's journey will soon come to an end with holiday
    cheer.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-06 23:31:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Excellent; congratulations, Kris. '
  created: '2006-12-07 00:15:20'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "About bloody time mate! Me & my mates have been wating for ages for you to
    release it, and well forgive you even though your a kiwi and all!!\r\n\r\nMuzz "
  created: '2006-12-07 00:25:31'
- author:
    name: Village
  body: "The wait is over.\r\n<a href=\"http://vllg.com/KLIM/Feijoa/mudTyper+Weights/\">http://vllg.com/KLIM/Feijoa/mudTyper+Weights/</a>"
  created: '2007-02-15 21:18:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Fabulous. Congratulations on what I''m sure is the first of many great type
    faces to come. '
  created: '2007-02-15 21:38:07'
- author:
    name: Steve3
  body: Any one know how to access New Zealand rugby world cup font?
  created: '2011-09-11 03:31:07'
date: '2006-05-23 06:09:35'
title: Fonts that resemble Klim's feijoa?

---
