---
author:
  name: paul d hunt
  picture: 109422
body: Anyone? Anyone?
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: . . . crickets . . .
  created: '2006-05-24 00:05:55'
- author:
    name: plainclothes
    picture: 110490
  body: "how about...\r\nwho forgot about XPress 7?"
  created: '2006-05-24 00:44:17'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i'm aware we don't have many Quark fans here, but i'm interested in hearing
    a review of the final. Especially on if the OT handling has improved since the
    beta.
  created: '2006-05-24 00:47:21'
- author:
    name: "\u2022Prakash Nair"
    picture: 111459
  body: '.......haystack passes by.......'
  created: '2006-05-24 01:02:46'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: "<em>Who rushed out and bought Quark 7?</em> \u2014 Paul D Hunt, Comedian,
    Cowboy & Designer\r\n\r\nQuote for his grandchildren."
  created: '2006-05-24 01:07:00'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: <a href="http://static.flickr.com/37/104039727_234f076800.jpg">Slick new design.</a>
  created: '2006-05-24 01:21:55'
- author:
    name: Guerella
    picture: 110740
  body: i have 5 copies on order
  created: '2006-05-24 01:27:17'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: See no evil; hear no evil; speak no evil; type no evil; design no evil.
  created: '2006-05-24 01:32:23'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I've been testing things in the beta for a while, and, while it does have
    fairly good support for OpenType, it completely leaves out support for alternate
    characters, except via the new Glyph palette. It's better than no support at all,
    but I was hoping for more. I doubt this has changed in the final release.
  created: '2006-05-24 03:25:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am waiting for the movie. :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-24 05:14:15'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "Extensis has released a Quark 7 auto-activation Xtension for Suitcase Fusion
    today also. For some reason, it's PowerPC only. \r\n\r\nIf anyone wants it, it
    is here:\r\n\r\nhttp://dl.extensis.com/downloads/SC/EN/M/Suitcase-QXPress7.dmg"
  created: '2006-05-24 08:42:36'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/quark7_4002.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nI wonder
    if the final release has the same icons as the beta version."
  created: '2006-05-24 09:01:04'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "So why hasn't InDesign taken over? What gives?\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\nhttp://homepage.mac.com/mwebert\r\nmwebert@mac.com\r\n--------------"
  created: '2006-05-24 13:13:30'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Disregarding the Quark vs. InDesign question, I'm relieved that version 7
    is out, mainly because of the OT support.
  created: '2006-05-24 14:18:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'm not going to favour one or the other, but as Adobe has plenty of boosters,
    here are a couple of points pro Quark 7, which I think does a good job of supporting
    OpenType.\r\n\r\n1. With Adobe, there is no way of knowing, when you hit the \"small
    caps\" button, whether you will get true or faux; with Quark, there is a \"small
    cap\" button on both the faux menu and the OpenType menu.\r\n\r\n2. Also, Quark
    implements the OpenType figures features correctly, whereas Adobe does not. (Adobe's
    method only works for oldstyle fonts that have the four main figure classes.)\r\n\r\n3.
    Quark's glyph palette lets you scroll through your font library, very useful to
    see which fonts have which OpenType features."
  created: '2006-05-24 15:42:52'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: '<em>Not</em> disregarding the Quark vs. InDesign question: I would think
    that, on the Mac side, having a Universal (i.e., Intel Mac-native) version of
    QuarkXPress out almost a year before InDesign could be a factor in Quark''s favor.
    Note, as <a href="http://www.creativepro.com/story/news/24299.html?cprose=7-21">CreativePro</a>
    points out, that Adobe pre-announced some features of InDesign CS3 the same day
    Quark 7 was released.'
  created: '2006-05-24 15:58:01'
- author:
    name: Ken6800
  body: "I think Adobe's dominance is pretty much assured, and Quark is going to die
    a very slow death if it doesnt find a way to differentiate from InDesign, besides
    the relatively lower price and odd feature or two.\r\n\r\nThe problem is, it appears
    to be targeting exactly the same market as InDesign, with nary an attempt to appeal
    to a more specialist crowd, apart from pictures of happy young designers.  Not
    enough methinks.\r\n\r\nOn a separate note, I thought Quark had an excellent logo
    before, I cannot stand this concentric circle device their brand consultants came
    up with.  Shame that the Scots thought of the old logo first though eheheh.\r\n\r\nKen
    Kamal \u2014 Branding Strategy and Design\r\nhttp://brandlibra.com\r\ninfo@brandlibra.com"
  created: '2006-05-24 15:59:00'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "<em>3. Quark\u2019s glyph palette lets you scroll through your font library,
    very useful to see which fonts have which OpenType features.</em>\r\n\r\nCould
    you elaborate on this, Nick? InD has a font menu in the glyph palette too."
  created: '2006-05-24 17:47:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Stephen, I guess it was added in CS2 -- I'm still using CS.\r\nSorry."
  created: '2006-05-24 17:49:06'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I find Quark 6.5 less claustrophobic than InD, does 7 look similar to 6.5
    or will I have to get another monitor for my pallettes?\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-05-24 18:28:31'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'It looks pretty similar to 6.5 to me. The most conspicuous new thing they''ve
    added is a new palette-selection tab above the palette at the bottom of the screen.
    It slides up into view when the mouse cursor is over the palette and slides down
    out of view otherwise. '
  children:
  - author:
      name: haraya
      picture: 111523
    body: "<cite>It looks pretty similar to 6.5 to me. The most conspicuous new thing
      they\u2019ve added is a new palette-selection tab above the palette at the bottom
      of the screen. It slides up into view when the mouse cursor is over the palette
      and slides down out of view otherwise.</cite>\r\n\r\nSame here. I'm trying to
      work out a couple of things though. Will post an update if I find anything of
      interest."
    created: '2006-05-26 18:27:43'
  created: '2006-05-24 19:53:26'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Thanks Mark, \r\nThe overcrowded screen is one of the least attractive features
    of InD, I don't really want to contribute to a \"mine is better than yours\" discussion,
    after all it's what you do with it.\r\nTim"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Bert Vanderveen
      picture: 109809
    body: "Tim wrote:\r\n<cite>The overcrowded screen is one of the least attractive
      features of InD, I don\u2019t really want to contribute to a \u201Cmine is better
      than yours\u201D discussion, after all it\u2019s what you do with it.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere's
      a nice InDesign PlugIn by DTPTools that allows you to set transparancy for the
      pallettes: X-Ray. It's 19 bucks\u2026\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dtptools.com/"
    created: '2006-05-27 19:55:54'
  created: '2006-05-24 20:14:54'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "<em>The overcrowded screen is one of the least attractive features of InD</em>\r\n\r\nThese
    can always be hidden and activated with key commands, just like Quark's. But are
    not modal so can float for easy access if desired."
  created: '2006-05-24 20:29:17'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: I think Quark could be competitive again if they made their product at about
    the same cost as InDesign. It is (at this point) such a huge difference that product
    differences aren't enough to make you want one product or the other.
  created: '2006-05-24 22:05:41'
- author:
    name: DesignSlave
  body: "Sorry, but Quark 6.x really blew. Screen redraw issue, etc, etc.\r\n\r\nI
    use Illustrator for most page layouts now.\r\n\r\nQuark can come out with version
    20 for all I care.\r\n\r\nMy 2cents"
  created: '2006-05-25 01:16:10'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "My partner still uses it in her job, mainly because she knows it inside out
    and can work very quickly with it. She doesn't see much advantage to switching
    to InDesign because it would bring her productivity level way down while she gets
    use to a new program. Lots of newsletters, magazines and brochures, with not enough
    time to do anything, much less learn a new program. Not to mention having to redo
    templates for everything. I think a lot of people are in the same boat.\r\n\r\nI
    only use Quark for testing fonts and when I'm working with someone who insists
    on using it. I use InDesign for multi-page documents, but I'm most comfortable
    working in Illustrator and use it for almost anything else."
  created: '2006-05-25 01:40:03'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: '1'
  created: '2006-05-25 04:25:04'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "On the plus side, I gather Quark fixed the OpenType contextual processing
    bug they had in beta 1, where context broke at the end of a word. Good for them.\r\n\r\nOn
    the down side, they did not actually ship the universal binary everybody's talking
    about. Word is that it's supposed to be in August. That's probably why the Suitcase
    plug-in is PPC-only.\r\n\r\nThe first review of QuarkXPress 7 in a major publication
    is out, from Galen Gruman in MacWorld: http://www.macworld.com/2006/05/reviews/qxp7/index.php
    (note: I was surprised by the overall feel of this - I think of Gruman of leaning
    towards the Quark side of the fence.)\r\n\r\nI'll shut up now about QXP7, lest
    somebody accuse me of being partisan.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-05-25 05:25:38'
- author:
    name: track and kern
  body: "my problem with Quark is that it has gone through a number of evolutions,
    and has yet to see a facelift. The GUI looks like something from the stone age.
    That might be to critical of a point to make, but, I am an interface junky, and
    do prefer the look and feel of my friend InD. Also, Nick Shinn made reference
    to the fact that you can never tell with InD wether or not you get faux or true
    small caps, and that is not true. If you use the key command, shift+apple+h, or
    if you use the quick button, you may get faux, however, if you go under the type
    palette options menu, under OpenType and choose \"All small caps\" I am certain
    that you only get true small caps. Typically, if I am setting with SC's, then
    I will take the time to make sure that they are correct, and also check to see
    if there are any other alternates available that I might wish to utilize as well.\r\n\r\nIt
    seems to me that I have a knack for killing threads; not sure why, just keeps
    happening. I hope this one keeps going, otherwise I think I might be cursed or
    something."
  created: '2006-05-25 12:21:48'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I like the non-intrusive (stone age) nature of the interface, as I mentioned
    above. If every evolution has to be accompanied by relearning the icons and pallettes
    as well as any new features it will hinder the upgrader.\r\nThe curse is broken
    :)\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-05-25 13:12:50'
- author:
    name: track and kern
  body: "Adobe has that problem, I will agree. However, I do prefer their interface
    as opposed to Quark's, and I do think that an evolution of icons, or interface,
    or both, every three or four versions, is something that we should all be willing
    to accept. It just reminds me so much of an old mac, analog style, and sometimes
    I hate it, other times I love it. Guess it depends on my mood really, if I'm feeling
    avant-guard(ish) then InD, and if I'm feeling renaissance then QXP.\r\n\r\nAnother
    thing, maybe again, I am crazy, but for some reason, I have always felt that QXP
    handles type a little bit better, in terms of tracking/kerning. Is this my imagination?"
  created: '2006-05-25 14:13:48'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<em>Another thing, maybe again, I am crazy, but for some reason, I have always
    felt that QXP handles type a little bit better, in terms of tracking/kerning.
    Is this my imagination?</em>\r\nYou might just bring the curse back down on you,
    many posters here prefer InD, personally I feel you can set something just as
    well in Quark and be more confident the software isn't \"helping\" you, but I
    have not used InD as much as Quark.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-05-25 14:25:53'
- author:
    name: track and kern
  body: I have used both, extensively. Today, I do use InD more often than QXD, but
    thats simply because it integrates cleverly with the rest of the Adobe suite.
    The last print shop that I worked at, where we had an 8 color and a 6 color offset
    press, and a, Indigo, we used more InD. Just the way the files would some, so
    I suppose thats a sign of the times.
  created: '2006-05-25 14:31:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I welcome competition to keep inovation going and prices in check. Trouble
    is, Quark has a history of shooting itself in the foot.\r\nLike Mark's partner,
    I was leary of changing to a new program when I started InD.  It didn't take that
    long to get used to, and InD will open your Quark templates complete with style
    sheets so that is not that big of a issue.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-25 15:22:18'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "<em>\u201CQuark has a history of shooting itself in the foot.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nI
    would argue that they\u2019ve shot themselves in the head more often than in the
    foot..."
  created: '2006-05-25 15:55:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Grant, let's just say that Quark is safer going hunting with VP Cheney than
    it is taking target practice alone :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-25 16:20:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>All small caps</em>\r\n\r\nMatthew, with InDesign (CS), the \"small caps\"
    button in the first sub-menu activates true small caps if available in an OpenType
    font, but faux if not (that is the problem). It only changes lower-case letters,
    not caps; it should really be named \"caps with small caps\". The \"all small
    caps\" button in the OpenType menu turns both caps and lower case into true small
    caps, and is greyed out if there are no small caps in an OT font."
  created: '2006-05-25 19:50:54'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Ok, but you surely know if you have a SC font activated or not, don't you?\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-05-25 20:11:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Ok, but you surely know if you have a SC font activated or not, don\u2019t
    you?</em>\r\n\r\nNot necessarily. For instance AGaramond Pro Italic and ACaslonPro
    Italic don't have small caps, but AJensonPro italic and MinionPro Italic do. Sure,
    ideally the user should know what the features of the fonts are, but it's not
    apparent from the InD \"small caps\" button. "
  created: '2006-05-26 18:47:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The only thing to do is check the glyph pallette.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-26 18:49:32'
- author:
    name: -Medivh-
  body: Adobe 4lyfe!
  created: '2006-05-26 19:55:49'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>It\u2019s better than no support at all, but I was hoping for more. I
    doubt this has changed in the final release.</em>\r\n\r\nMark, you should write
    them about it. I understand that they are much friendlier towards customers nowadays.
    And besides, they are already hard at work on XPress version 8...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 07:09:45'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>The problem is, it appears to be targeting exactly the same market as
    InDesign, with nary an attempt to appeal to a more specialist crowd, apart from
    pictures of happy young designers. Not enough methinks.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's funny,
    Ken. I thought that it was Adobe that was targeting the same market as Quark,
    when they decided to make a \"Quark killer\" (their term for InDesign, when it
    was being developed).\r\n\r\nBut also, what do you mean by \"a more specialist
    crowd\"? It's a page layout program! Who should they be trying to sell it to,
    if not designers (be they graphic, publication, or book designers)?"
  created: '2006-05-27 07:16:15'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Ricardo wrote:\r\n<cite>I thought that it was Adobe that was targeting the
    same market as Quark...\"</cite>\r\n\r\nNo argument on that.\r\n\r\n<cite>...when
    they decided to make a \u201CQuark killer\u201D (their term for InDesign, when
    it was being developed).</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is a popular myth, but my colleagues
    on the InDesign team have always said that this name was pushed by the press.
    Certainly in my own many meetings and discussions with them, I never heard the
    phrase used (except in discussions of the media and popular perception), it was
    just \"Shuksan\" and then later \"K2.\"\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-05-27 20:20:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Whatever it was called, making InDesign able to open Quark files, and publishing
    a booklet called "Switching from Quark to InDesign" is targeting the competition
    in a very direct way.
  created: '2006-05-27 20:51:13'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: At the time, Quark had the market cornered and was, itself, in need of a little
    competition. Turn-about is fair play. Innit?
  created: '2006-05-27 22:05:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Agreed. Let's hope they both continue to prompt the other to better its product.
  created: '2006-05-27 22:13:57'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Exactly.
  created: '2006-05-27 22:27:33'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Thomas, Nick, and Tiffany:\r\n\r\nYes, yes, and yes.  :-)\r\n\r\nAnd Thomas,
    thanks for demystifying that one.\r\n\r\nR."
  children:
  - author:
      name: T Bones
      picture: 111040
    body: '[Edit]'
    created: '2012-08-05 16:54:10'
  created: '2006-05-28 06:13:55'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Thomas, now that we're in the process of demystification, can you shed a light
    on the urban myth that Abobe originally approached Quark to colaborate in some
    sort of way, but after Quark kindly told them to f*** right off Adobe decided
    to pay Quark back in full by developing its own page lay-out software InDesign?
  created: '2006-05-28 14:53:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yves,\r\nI think it was their own customers who \"Quark kindly told to f***
    right off\" thus opening the door for Adobe to fill the void of customer respect.
    Quark would still be the absolute front-runner if they knew how to treat their
    customers.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-28 18:09:26'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: "I remember about a year or two ago, MacDesign mag made a point of dropping
    its Quark coverage in favor of InDesign-- their covers literarlly dropped Quark
    from the list of programs and InDesign is now in that slot (last I saw). It's
    just one magazine, but it's a boon for beginners, and I see their move as one
    indication of an editorial change made in light of real shifts in who's using
    what--\r\n\r\nIn fact, at my university, we in the \"Professional Writing and
    Editing\" program don't even bother with Quark, although I've felt a little guilty
    for years because I've assumed that our journalism students will encounter Quark
    plenty in the newspaper design realm. \r\n\r\nAny observations on real significant
    shifts away from Quark in the newspaper/mag design arena?"
  created: '2006-05-29 18:08:11'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Quark would still be the absolute front-runner if they knew how to treat
    their customers.</em>\r\n\r\nApparently they've learned their lesson, Chris. I
    hear their customer support is much friendlier now (and that they fired their
    Mac-hating CEO -- but that's old news by now)."
  created: '2006-05-31 06:01:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Ricardo.  I hope they are on a better path now.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-31 13:21:43'
- author:
    name: sara7venus
  body: "I am somewhat partial to InDesign CS2 over Quark 7 so far as far as useability,
    but there are several factors included in why I am partial, and not all of them
    have to do with the GUI or features in either program.\r\n\r\nQuark *did* make
    an effort to work more closely with customers in the beginning. However, they
    continue to make it nearly impossible for corporate customers (such as myself)
    to receive volume discounts, as they require software called \"Quark License Administrator\"
    to be running on a server, with access to Quark's servers. Not only is this impossible
    to implement in a huge corporate (such as mine), but in a highly-regulated industry
    (such as mine), it is a definite no-no. They refuse to offer a site license for
    any company, no matter how many licenses a particular site has. They are distrustful
    and greedy, in my opinion. It takes me endless hours to successfully work with
    Quark toward ANY end; even just upgrading software.\r\n\r\nAdobe, on the other
    hand, freely offers site licenses using only one serial number per software package,
    per site or group. They still require activation, but do not limit their corporate
    customers in the way of requiring a group to run a server with some license administrator
    running on it. With Adobe, I can upgrade, purchase new licenses, and download
    my serial numbers in a matter of minutes. To me, there is no contest."
  created: '2006-06-06 19:35:52'
- author:
    name: wizenpub
    picture: 111650
  body: Let's not for get to mention Quark 7's use of color-based transparency so
    I can select letters within boxes and ascripe unique transparency attributes...something
    that takes multiple boxes in InDesign. Also we're already finding that having
    people team up on layouts really helps at crunch time and I find it really useful
    to dupe layouts within the same project for variations (a 6.5 feature). Also...going
    forward, Quark 7 will be able to open Quark 9 files because of the way they've
    "thought ahead" with DOM...the way the industry is moving to Open Standards (including
    Microsoft)...except for Adobe that makes its shareholder's money on proprietary
    formats....food for thought...
  created: '2006-07-06 15:58:35'
date: '2006-05-23 23:47:52'
node_type: forum
title: Who rushed out and bought Quark 7?

---
