---
author:
  name: pattyfab
  picture: 109929
body: "I'm just asking... but there are some really nasty threads going on.\r\n\r\nI
  say take it outside, boys."
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "One reason is we're passionate about type.\r\n\r\nAnother is that the impersonality
    of written communication\r\ncauses our repressed negativism to be channeled through
    it.\r\n\r\nMy hope is that I -and others- can assimilate and leverage\r\nwhatever
    is thrown around, instead of adopting unnatural\r\nbehavior... whatever the hell
    that means.\r\n\r\nAnd now I really need to get horizontal...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-25 06:13:10'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Patty: Testosterone? I dunno. I used to enjoy a good fight (mental or physical)
    but I also didn't like hurting people, so I avoided them except when it seemed
    important. Now that I'm getting to be middle aged, enjoying them - not so much.\r\n\r\nInsert
    some platitude here like \"people are different.\"\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-05-25 07:46:18'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "I guess its just that time of the year again.\r\nSpring becoming summer.
    Men becoming kids, again. :)\r\n\r\nDav"
  created: '2006-05-25 09:08:12'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Saying it was a case of men turning to kids again is insinuating that there
    is ever far to go in that regards.\r\n; )\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-25 12:19:44'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Btw (formlos), I just surfed into <a href=\"http://www.formlos.net/Folio/Neonua\"
    target=\"_blank\">Neonua.</a> Very nice addition to the monocase concept.\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-25 12:26:21'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "* Yea, Some of you may have noticed by now, that 'English' is not my native
    language. :)\r\n\r\nDav"
  created: '2006-05-25 13:21:16'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: Did you spill my pint?
  created: '2006-05-25 13:47:12'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: 'Who''s fighting, you @#&@$! #$#&#@#@ %$#@%^&& ?!?!'
  created: '2006-05-25 18:18:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't think there is a problem with discourse and dialogue which promotes
    healthy exchange of differing ideas.  The problem is that some people revert to
    personal attacks rather than just presenting more evidence supporting their own
    opinion.  The evidence is what convinces and what spreads knowledge to others.
    \ The personal attacks just kill whatever respect people might have had for the
    attacker and don't win supporters of that person's point of view. Opinions and
    passions are fine but when they escalate to insults, nobody wins or learns.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-25 18:57:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But the people, the persons, are the entire context of it all. Remove that,
    and\r\nyou're left with a formal, clinical illusion - an irrelevant posturing/venting.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-25 19:04:43'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "what chris said.\r\nalso, if someone begins making personal attacks or hateful
    remarks in general against anyone/any group, please ask them to stop and edit
    their own posting. if these kinds of remarks continue, please <a href=\"http://typophile.com/readme#help\">contact
    a moderator</a>."
  created: '2006-05-25 19:05:11'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "It's our lack of real life... life jajajaja\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-05-25 19:09:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "But H\xE9ctor, I thought you had a life :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-25 19:21:41'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Lord knows it doesn't make me want to participate! I can imagine it might
    scare off newbies too. I don't see why the conversation can't remain civil. This
    is a forum about type and design, not a group therapy session.
  created: '2006-05-25 19:23:33'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: "It\u2019s a free group therapy session. ;^)\r\n\r\n<strong>Typoholics Anonymous</strong>
    <em>in Room 101</em>\r\nRecovering typoholics tell harrowing tales of how type
    ruined their lives. How their wives accused them of seeing women like [[PMN Caecilia|Caecilia]],
    [[ITC Tiffany|Tiffany]] and [[Mrs Eaves]] from down the road <em>or</em> whose
    husbands accused them of whoring about with the likes of [[Arnold Boeklin]] and
    the [[Duc de Berry]].\r\n\r\n<strong>Typophile Rehabilitation</strong> <em>in
    Room 102</em>\r\nThe state has released these typophiles after progressively worsening
    and repeated type offences in the hope that some heavy handed group therapy will
    sort them out. Each one\u2019s story similar to the next. How it all started with
    a harmless affair with a small [[Dolly]]."
  created: '2006-05-25 19:43:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t see why the conversation can\u2019t remain civil.</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    haven't been targeted by Hrant."
  created: '2006-05-25 20:09:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's not you, it's your ideas (otherwise I would never\r\nsay anything nice
    about you - which I do, as warranted).\r\nBut I would never ask you to not have
    them, or even not\r\nexpress them, and I certainly wouldn't ask a moderator\r\nto
    censure you. But everybody is different, and if some-\r\nbody feels the need to
    do those things I need to tolerate\r\nthat (which is not the same thing as shutting
    up about it).\r\nThis is why I put my faith in the people who manage this\r\ngreat
    place, as opposed to its individual participants.\r\nRemember: monarchist.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-25 20:25:53'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: 'there''s something children are being taught, at least here in switzerland:
    <b>a fight always gets started by two people, not by one alone.</b>'
  created: '2006-05-25 20:28:09'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I reiterate, why go below the belt? Everyone is entitled to their ideas,
    and to agree or disagree with others ideas. But the insults shouldn't have to
    get personal. Y'all are sounding like rightwing radio pundits.\r\n\r\nIn other
    words, what chris said.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-25 20:31:56'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Don't know Patty, I guess some enjoy it, I must confess I have actually enjoyed
    a couple of rants, and I know it only makes it worse, so let's try to avoid them.\r\n\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-05-25 20:39:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rush_is_5279.png]'
  created: '2006-05-25 20:47:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">You haven't been targeted by Hrant\r\n\r\nI have. The antidote to rage is
    the <a href=\"http://www.compassionpower.com/\">power of compassion</a> and acceptance
    of the dignity of all, including Hrant--who deserves to be treated with respect
    just as do you and I.\r\n\r\nI don't know how best to foster that spirit of compassion
    in Typophile discussions, but I do know that returning insults is not going to
    help. The best way to moderate discussions is by a moderator, but these are voluntary
    and have limited time.   "
  created: '2006-05-25 21:03:34'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Thanks for posting this Patty. While I'm no saint, I've been increasingly
    discouraged by the constant bickering and pissing contests I've been seeing lately.
    There's some real knowledge on this site, its just a shame to see the egos constantly
    get in the way. I've also noticed that people who used to contribute to this site
    more frequently aren't around as often anymore as well. Could there be a connection?
    As of now, I'm a recovering typoholic.
  created: '2006-05-25 21:29:17'
- author:
    name: Rene Verkaart
    picture: 110212
  body: "I haven't been around that much lately, but not just because of that reason.
    Somehow the atmosphere has changed a bit. It's a pitty. Before there was more
    positive discussion and helping. I don't find that that much anymore these days.\r\n\r\nI
    would love to be more on Typophile, so I will stay tuned.\r\n\r\n\xAE\r\n\r\nwww.characters.nl
    \ { Dutch typography to express yourself }"
  created: '2006-05-25 21:34:16'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Hi Terry...\r\nnice to see your \"blue face\" again ;-)\r\nNotice that I've
    gone \"faceless\" myself in my avatar.\r\n\r\nAs for the debate tactics of some
    of the posts, it just makes it a little harder to glean the wisdom within threads
    while having to wade through the \"organic fertilizer\"."
  created: '2006-05-25 21:38:31'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: You have a point Terry I don't enjoy the negative comments and would rather
    visit another site. The one thing I try to do is find things to lighten the mood
    of people here.
  created: '2006-05-25 21:42:29'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Typophile embodies three crafts - type design, graphic design and typography
    - and treats two subjects - text type and display type. Given this range, and
    to a lesser extent the cultural and philosophical range of the people using the
    site, there's a lot of fundamental disagreement. \r\n\r\nThere are two possible
    responses for the moderators. The liberal response is to run the site as if beliefs
    held by users were no more than preferences, not to be arbitrated between from
    above. The Aristotelian response would have it that all crafts have inherent in
    them a set of virtues which must be agreed upon for them to be virtues at all;
    that disputes concerning them should therefore normally be arbitrated as if the
    differing opinions held were either true or false; that crafts should be separately
    embodied where the virtues inherent to them clash, as they clearly do with graphic
    design and text design; and that in each embodiment, some kind of guild-like hierarchy
    of authority is required to legitimate arbitration. \r\n\r\nThough Typophile has
    a formally designated ruling class, they've taken the liberal path. What follows
    is disagreement without the possibility of settlement, and this we see endlessly.
    Typophile is less valuable than it could be for the same reason in miniature that
    Western government is less valuable than it could be: within its field, it embodies
    no conception of the good.\r\n\r\nPerhaps you didn't want quite that much detail,
    Patty :-)"
  created: '2006-05-25 21:46:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>returning insults is not going to help</em>\r\n\r\nIt works for me. I
    feel better to be dishing it out rather than enduring constant \"needling\", as
    you put it. Also, I've found that after I bite back, he eases up on me for a while.
    Do you really believe the victim should show compassion for his/her tormentor?
    \r\n\r\nI've asked him to lay off the personal remarks (for which I am mocked
    for being a whiny artiste), so have moderators, but he keeps right on. You can
    talk about this problem in general terms, but it's rather obvious that the top
    dog here (200+ posts) sets the tone Patti decries, instigating most of the pissing
    contests and scaring away those who want to avoid them. "
  created: '2006-05-25 21:53:00'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Keep it about the type, people.
  created: '2006-05-25 21:59:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, I know you don't expect to be criticized,\r\nand that it hurts, but
    do try to pay attention\r\nto what others are saying. I am [trying to].\r\n\r\n>
    I feel better\r\n\r\nWell, of itself that's a good reason.\r\nBut what makes a
    given person feel better isn't necessarily good for his society,\r\nand a responsible
    \"citizen\" (which I'm not claiming I am, btw) minds that.\r\n\r\n> after I bite
    back, he eases up on me\r\n\r\nI don't think that's true, but if it is, that's
    my\r\nweakness - I'll try to have more self-discipline.\r\nI hope that when I
    ease off (again, from attacking\r\nyour ideas, if in the context of you - but
    not you)\r\nit's generally because I'm bored.\r\n\r\n> 200+ posts\r\n\r\nI think
    there's an important elaboration due here: most of my posts are very short these
    days. If you count the number of bytes or something, I'm sure I'm not at the top.
    Just look at some of those big juicy threads with mega-posts, that I'm not even
    properly participating in. I need to take a vacation just to catch up with you
    guys!\r\n\r\nAlso: I'm sure you agree that I don't need to post a lot to be offensive\r\nto
    you. You complain about me even when I'm not on the prolific list.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-25 22:02:10'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "<cite>It works for me</cite>\r\nAbsolutely: let's not underestimate the satisfaction
    of replying to aggression with aggression. In a liberal environment, it's all
    one's got. Long term, I really do think there should be two General Discussions
    fora, one for text and absolute truth, the other for graphic design and cultural
    difference. Posting in either should entail at least a good tourist's respect
    for the local world-view."
  created: '2006-05-25 22:03:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Keep it about the type, people.\r\n\r\nYes, in spite of everything.\r\n\r\nDon't
    let somebody's objectionable delivery distract\r\nyou from addressing the content.
    That's the type of\r\nthing I tend to mean when I use the term \"tolerance\".\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nGeorge,
    I think your intent is admirable, but that sort of purism is inhuman.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-25 22:04:27'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "<cite>Keep it about the type, people.</cite>\r\nThe problem is that even
    type\u2019s not just about type."
  created: '2006-05-25 22:06:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Do you really believe the victim should show compassion for his/her tormentor?\r\n\r\n>it
    works for me. \r\n\r\nHaving compassion and being a patsy are two different things.
    I am not saying that you shouldn't respond, but I am saying that returning insults
    doesn't help. \r\n\r\nYou say it works for you, but I don't see the evidence.
    Hrant has not let up, and as you can see it doesn't work for the rest of us, who
    don't enjoy running across this stuff in otherwise interesting threads. \r\n\r\nJust
    to be clear, even though I disagree with both you and Hrant half the time, I find
    you always well informed and often quite interesting. I often find Hrant interesting
    when he is not in a rage. "
  created: '2006-05-25 22:06:28'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: <em>everybody was kung fu fighting..</em>
  created: '2006-05-25 22:08:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">liberal response is to run the site as if beliefs held by users were no
    more than preferrences\r\n\r\nGeorge, that is one kind of relativist, soft-headed
    liberalism, which is unfortunately too common. But a belief in fostering a diversity
    of views within discussion is a traditional liberal belief that is consistent
    with strong values and decisions to enforce them. Among these strong values are
    beliefs in tolerance, civility within discussion, and non-violent ways of settling
    disputes. These are a part of the great liberal tradition in England and America,
    and I treasure them. "
  created: '2006-05-25 22:11:47'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i must admit, as a moderator my style has been fairly <em>laissez faire</em>.
    but since losing a vauable contributer in the recent past, i will be tolerant
    of shenanigins no longer. if things get out of hand, don't expect me to stand
    idlely by.
  created: '2006-05-25 22:22:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Terry,\r\nGood to have you back!\r\nThe sun must be shining even in Cincy
    by now :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-25 22:23:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Somehow the atmosphere has changed a bit.\r\n\r\nYes. The biggest victim
    has been type crits. And I think\r\nthe more a person claims expertise and success,
    the more\r\nhe should participate in crits. It's the Spiderman thing:\r\n\"With
    power comes responsability.\"\r\n\r\n> since losing a vauable contributer in the
    recent past\r\n\r\nWhich is very rare (and was not due to \"Mr 200+\", Nick).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-25 22:25:27'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Hey the South Park characters posting was fun and everyone enjoyed it. It
    wasn't about type but types
  created: '2006-05-25 22:29:18'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Bill, the values you mention are not virtues teleological to any substantive
    conception of the good within any practice (except that of governing an irreparably
    fractious society); they are, as it were, negative rather than positive values
    (with the exception of civility). You need more than tolerance: you need things
    to defend.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, most people here actually do have a similar
    enough set of opinions. Where I disagree strongly I end up a contributor to some
    of the fights, so I doubt I'm a force for good. I'll post less in future, but
    Typophile is wonderful, and I'm very grateful for what I've learnt from it. Thanks
    everyone!"
  created: '2006-05-25 22:35:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">not virtues teleological to any substantive conception of the good \r\n\r\nFirst
    of all the virtue ethics of Aristotle is weak because it is too focused on the
    person. But this would take us too far afield. \r\n\r\nIn any case the values
    I mention do absolutely serve to promote a dynamic society in which there is social
    improvement and the growth of knowledge. They have done so and will continue to
    do so. Tolerance is not a negative value because it requires a positive structure
    to support free exchange of ideas. Settling disputes by non-violent means is a
    positive value in fostering a whole variety of democratic institutions, including
    elections and court of law."
  created: '2006-05-25 22:48:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But democracy and intolerance go hand-in-hand.\r\n\r\nTypophile is not democratic,
    and that's why it works.\r\nSame with China.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-25 22:51:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">democracy and intolerance go hand-in-hand.\r\n\r\nOpposite of the truth.
    While modern democratic societies have had their lapses, dictatorships like Hitler,
    Idi Amin, Pol Pot etc. etc. have been far more intolerant of minority groups and
    of criticism of the government and diversity of opinion. "
  created: '2006-05-25 23:06:57'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Bill, I think tolerance can be a negative value while still requiring a positive
    structure, just as a free market requires enforcement. You're right to correct
    me on non-violence, it is indeed a positive value within the context of a law-possessing
    society, which every society should be. I'm not a democrat myself.
  created: '2006-05-25 23:13:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, you speak of the surface, while I speak of the depths.\r\n\r\nAnd
    nevermind that Hitler for one was elected democratically.\r\nAnd what do you think
    of Hamas's election, I wonder? Actually,\r\nno, I don't wonder.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-25 23:36:26'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: cool it hrant. if you want to debunk ideas, keep to the ideology. don't attack
    individuals.
  created: '2006-05-25 23:43:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK, edited.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-25 23:46:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Hitler for one was elected democratically\r\n\r\nFrom what I can see, this
    is a myth. However, I have other more pressing matters, so I won't continue discussing
    politics. "
  created: '2006-05-26 00:07:54'
- author:
    name: noftus
    picture: 111246
  body: "Back to the original topic, (while I haven't been here for all that long),
    I think it's just the natural evolution and ongoing maturity that needs to happen
    in any online community.\r\n\r\nDon't fight it too hard (the fighting), but try
    to steer it in the right direction."
  created: '2006-05-26 06:19:19'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>Spring becoming summer. Men becoming kids, again.</em>\r\n\r\nKind of
    like the old 6th grade put-down when someone says \"You're driving me crazy!\":\r\n\r\n\"That
    ain't a drive, it's a short putt.\"\r\n\r\n\"Childish Pride Parade\" coming soon
    to a city near you:\r\n\r\nI don't know Latin so I can't come up with the phobia
    name for people who don't like \"men who are acting like children\", but if tolerance
    is what is being preached, why not men who act childish? \r\n\r\nYou could call
    this a childish idea, but whatever you say can simply be countered with the accusation
    that you suffer from the fear of men who act childish (this is where the Latin
    would come in handy), and your intolerance harkens back to burning witches at
    the stake, or some other ludicrous red-herring.\r\n\r\nAnd if there is one thing
    I can't tolerate, it is people who are intolerant.\r\n\r\nRed-herrings: Not just
    for breakfast anymore."
  created: '2006-05-26 07:08:42'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<strong>Moderator's Comment\u2026</strong>\r\n\r\n><em> if men who act effeminate
    are to be tolerated unconditionally</em>\r\n\r\nDennis, please refrain from any
    further statements of this nature in the future. Such personal preferences and/or
    behavior have nothing to do with type design or typography and are irrelevant
    to the discussion at hand, or your arguments.\r\n\r\nMany readers of these forums
    find off-hand statements on personality traits or lifestyles offensive.\r\n\r\n><em>And
    if there is one thing I can\u2019t tolerate, it is people who are intolerant.</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    fact, most people cannot tolerate intolerance. Prehaps you could take this a bit
    more to heart."
  created: '2006-05-26 08:07:24'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "I'm relatively new here, but nevertheless i'm raising my little voice :)\r\n\r\nA
    <em>short</em> personal clash is not a problem for me (i like juice...), but it's
    getting very confusing for the other readers, if the personal attacks are neverending
    and jumping from thread to thread.\r\n\r\nRegards Thomas "
  created: '2006-05-26 09:57:26'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Dennis - the \"latin\" world you're looking for is homophobia and I wholeheartedly
    second Dan's comment. You don't miss a chance to slip that in, and it's wildly
    inappropriate to this forum. At the risk of stooping to the level of the bickering
    I deplore, I find it a real challenge to respect your opinions on design and type
    when I find your morals so reprehensible. I know the two have nothing to do with
    one another which is another reason I wish you'd keep your politics to yourself.\r\n\r\nand
    Thomas - thanks for raising your little voice! I think we need new blood here. "
  created: '2006-05-26 13:56:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Patty, I personally find what I take to be Hrant's support of autocracy even
    more offensive than Dennis's offensive remarks about gays, as so much poverty
    and suffering and injustice have come from autocracies, and still do today around
    the world. \r\n\r\nFrankly, I think neither should drag in their political views
    at every chance, but have a little mercy on the rest of us, who are not going
    to be swayed, and just find the repetition of these views tiresome and ugly. \r\n\r\nHowever,
    when they do, they should not be censored. Ideally they should be ignored, but
    I admit that too often I've been unable to resist the temptation to respond to
    Hrant in particular. (Dennis is new, and I've been able to resist--so far!) \r\n\r\nWith
    the enlightenment of your comments, I will now just try to respond 'please leave
    your ugly politics outside the discussion', and leave it at that. Perhaps a hint
    like that now and then from a moderator might reduce the serial political ax grinding,
    but I don't think it should be censored.\r\n\r\nPersonal attacks, however, should
    be censored, because they are directly destructive of good discussion. Both Dennis's
    and Hrant's politics are offensive to me, but only when they turn personal should
    they be censored, in my view. "
  created: '2006-05-26 14:24:59'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "William -\r\n\r\nYou make a good distinction, it's true, between ugly politics
    and personal attacks.\r\n\r\nThere have been some interesting political discussions
    apropos of nothing much on this forum including the rabbinical back and forth
    about the ethics of sharing fonts. I just think more sensitivity and civility
    in general is in order here."
  created: '2006-05-26 14:28:44'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Ideally they should be ignored</em>\r\n\r\nAnd if a valubale contributor
    decides that the best way to ignore such comments is to leave Typophile, is that
    acceptable? I think not. What say ye?\r\nHow many people have we lost as an online
    community because of this? I know of one, personally."
  created: '2006-05-26 14:33:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "For the record, I find apologism of fascism offensive - so much of the troubles
    of the world <cite>today</cite> come from such attitudes. It's one of the few
    disgusting things on Typophile to me. I also wish that people didn't take every
    opportunity to slip in their religion into discussions; that's also offensive
    to me, although less so.\r\nIf all this seems strange, it just goes to show: we
    each find different things offensive, and there are demographic lines that can
    be drawn in this. Do we want to formally cast Typophile as being the tool and
    mouthpiece of a certain demographic?\r\n\r\nEven with all the serious, fundamental
    things I find wrong with some members, it\r\nwould be unintelligent, unwise and
    dishonoroble for me to ask for their censure.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n> the rest of us,
    who are not going to be swayed\r\n\r\nYou can't claim to know such a disheartening
    thing.\r\nIn fact I know for sure that you're wrong.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nIf you start
    censoring -I mean the way I think William et\r\nalia want to- then you will kill
    Typophile. I guarantee it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-26 14:47:41'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "While my last comment came explicitly from me as a moderator, what follows
    is just my personal opinion\u2026\r\n\r\n<em>Ideally they should be ignored</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think that, because too many personal insults have gone ignored recently, certain
    individuals may have left. \r\n\r\nIt is one thing for obscenity to be rebutted
    and put in its place. But when it sits uncommented upon, those directly affected
    are actually insulted twice\u2026 first by the insultor, and second by those who
    didn't step in to stop the insulting."
  created: '2006-05-26 14:53:42'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'alright, now we''re slipping into the problems we''re just discussing. please
    don''t attach politics to individuals. Hrat, William, reel it in. If you have
    a problem with autocracy, say so. If you have a problem with apologism of facism
    offensive, say so. But don''t pin these ideas to people. If you have a problem
    with homosexuality, say you don''t agree with the practice, but don''t make slurs
    against those who are homosexuals. This is what i find offensive: when politics
    become personal attacks on people or groups of people. these, i think, <em>should</em>
    be censored. am i right or am i wrong in this line of thinking?'
  created: '2006-05-26 14:56:32'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Well, I don't think that they should be censored. I think that they should
    be rebutted. The problem is that they are often not, so others might get the impression
    that we are going along with the slur-slinging. Which, if we don't say anything,
    we sort of are :-/
  created: '2006-05-26 15:03:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">And if a valubale contributor decides that the best way to ignore such comments
    is to leave Typophile, is that acceptable? I think not. What say ye?\r\n\r\nPaul,
    that is a bitter pill, particularly because I agree about the offensiveness of
    the comments and the value of the contributor. But frankly I don't think you can
    control who is offended by what kind of statement and decides not to participate.
    And it is not, I think, a sufficient reason to censor political opinions. \r\n\r\nFirst,
    politics does sometimes get mixed up with movements in type design and typography,
    so politics and type can't be completely segregated. Second, I think it is an
    important principle not to censor political views we personally find offensive--including
    Hrant's and Dennis's (and mine or yours for that matter). \r\n\r\nI do think it
    is a reason to post on your guidelines: \r\n\r\n\"This forum is not a forum for
    political proselytizing; please grind politicals axes elsewhere and focus on type
    and typography.\" \r\n\r\nWhat bothers me is not the occasional whacky or ugly
    view, but the tiresome grind, grind, grind. "
  created: '2006-05-26 15:16:05'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Let's face it, typophile is  comprised of a \"bunch of meanies\"\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2006-05-26 15:19:15'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<strong> It's a freak magnet!</strong>\r\n\u0192\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-26 15:20:57'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>Dennis - the \u201Clatin\u201D world you\u2019re looking for is homophobia</em>\r\n\r\nJust
    to clarify, I was just being silly (I was tired from traveling), and if you read
    my post you'll see the word I wanted was the equivelant word for \"the fear of
    men who act childish\".\r\n\r\nI'll bet whatever it is would sound funny.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    the title of this thread has nothing to do with type, so just like the Kung-Foo
    fighting reference, I was just having some fun.\r\n\r\n<em>Prehaps you could take
    this a bit more to heart.</em>\r\n\r\nHuh? Again I was having some fun with words
    (I can't tolerate intolerance...get it?). I am pretty tolerent, so I haven't a
    clue what you are talking about. Lighten up dude.\r\n\r\nAnd btw, I not only *tolerate*
    all you libs, I actually like most of you.\r\n; )\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-26 15:22:05'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Fredo,\r\n\r\nI rest my case.\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2006-05-26 15:23:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">If you start censoring -I mean the way William and his\r\nilk want to- then
    you will kill Typophile.\r\n\r\nHrant, if you are reading my posts you will see
    that I do not advocate censoring your political views. \r\n\r\nIn response to
    Paul's suggesion, I have revised my post above to read \"what I take to be Hrant's
    advocacy of autocracy\" instead of \"Hrant's advocacy of autrocacy.\" Though I
    note that Hrant did not object to that formulation. I would appreciate if you
    would also say \"what I take to be William's apology for Fascism.\" You know very
    well that by my lights I am a passionate opponent of Fascism. "
  created: '2006-05-26 15:24:45'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>If you start censoring...then you will kill Typophile. I guarantee it.</em>\r\n\r\nOkay,
    i don't really advocate censoring, but we need to figure out something that will
    work. As it is, I feel that Typophile <em>IS</em> dying a slow death with all
    this bitterness being slung about freely. That's why i'm so anxious as a moderator
    to find some sort of protocol that will work for creating a pleasant experience
    for everyone. i guess we need to agree on a couple things:\r\n1) what is/isn't
    appropriate for typophile?\r\n2) what actions should be taken when content that
    is inappropriate is posted?\r\nThis all feels like a rehash of <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/13353\">Forum
    Decorum</a>, but obviously, those lessons didn't stick..."
  created: '2006-05-26 15:26:30'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em> what is/isn\u2019t appropriate for typophile?</em>\r\n\r\nI have found
    that politics and religion are things that have wildly opposing, and sometimes
    irreconcilable views, and if I was a moderator, I would be firm about keeping
    those out of here. Hopefully the moderator would be even-handed, and not allow
    a dig at something he agrees with to sit there unchallenged.\r\n\r\nIt wouldn't
    be censorship as much as an out-of-bounds for this forum.\r\nIf you can remove
    a link to a questionable font site, which is censorship of a type I understand,
    why not material that can cause hard feelings? I guess it would require skills
    in defusing a situation while keeping it upbeat, and not taking sides, but reinforcing
    the positive direction for the discussion.\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-26 15:39:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Well, I don\u2019t think that they should be censored. I think that they
    should be rebutted. The problem is that they are often not, so others might get
    the impression that we are going along with the slur-slinging. Which, if we don\u2019t
    say anything, we sort of are :-/\r\n\r\nDan, you make a really good point, which
    highlights the dilemma of those who are offended by a personal attack on an individual,
    or, as Paul notes, a group. (Note, Paul, it isn't offensive in itself to ascribe
    political views to a person--eg to call someone a democrat if they say they are.)\r\n\r\nThe
    dilemma is that if they respond, they really risk being dragged into a mud-slinging
    match. If they don't respond, they may be encouraging it, as Dan says. This is
    why only a moderator can really solve the problem by intervening and cutting out
    the personal attack on an individual or censuring and warning on the group attack.\r\n\r\nThe
    individual can perhaps best respond: cut out the personal attacks, this is not
    acceptable on Typophile. But it is way better if a moderator does it. \r\n "
  created: '2006-05-26 15:46:25'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: If you're a moderator, you have the right to edit, delete, etc. posts that
    contain comments that are slanderous, or demeaning to any group or individual.
    If someone doesn't like it they can start their own forum. I think in certain
    cases it may be the only way to keep this place on the right track. So Paul, go
    for it. On a personal note, I used to visit a certain graphic design blog daily,
    but had to stop due to all the Christian/conservative bashing that was going on.
    One of the things I have always loved about this form is the fact that, for the
    most part, religion and politics have been kept out. There are plenty of things
    we could all disagree about, but the reason we're here is what we agree on, a
    love of type and typography. I'm here to learn, and have learned a lot, so thanks.
  created: '2006-05-26 15:50:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "> I haven\u2019t a clue what you are talking about\r\n\r\nDennis, if a bunch
    of people--including me--find your posting on homosexuals not funny and offensive,
    then I suggest you seriously try to figure out what they find offensive, and not
    dismiss their concerns.\r\n\r\nIf we have good will here, misunderstandings can
    be cleared up pretty quickly. But it does take a desire to clear them up.  \r\n\r\nps.
    Chris Keegan's phrase \"demeaning to any group or individual\" is great. That's
    exactly what should be in the guidelines, and should be in a notice to individuals
    who post such stuff. "
  created: '2006-05-26 15:55:45'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "\r\nIf something were to be removed, it would then give an indication of
    how much is too far. It is good for people to know what the limits are. Even though
    we know the speed limit is 65, most people will go with the speed they think they
    can get away with. If they never get a ticket at 70, they will probably start
    pushing that limit too."
  created: '2006-05-26 15:57:02'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Paul, it seems ironic the forum is \"fighting about fighting\".\r\n\r\nFontplayer
    may have the seed of a good idea \"It wouldn\u2019t be censorship as much as an
    out-of-bounds for this forum\"\r\n\r\nThis seed leads to compromise, a \"fighting
    ring forum\u2014section\" for those that enjoy blood sports.\r\n\r\nGiampa\r\n "
  created: '2006-05-26 15:59:07'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: 'Moderators, would you consider having two General Discussions fora? At the
    moment Typophile discussion is divided up according to different kinds of topic;
    there''s value in their also reflecting, to a pragmatically limited extent, different
    premises for discussion. '
  created: '2006-05-26 16:00:46'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>Dennis, if a bunch of people\u2014including me\u2014find your posting
    on homosexuals not funny</em>\r\n\r\nI didn't realize there was a slur hidden
    in my setup, so I have rewritten it as follows:\r\n************\r\nI don't know
    Latin so I can't come up with the phobia name for people who don't like \"men
    who are acting like children\", but if tolerance is what is being preached, why
    not tolerance for men who act childish? \r\n************\r\nKeeping in mind it
    was just tongue-in-cheek, not serious...\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-26 16:03:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">two General Discussions fora\r\n\r\nGeorge, I don't think this is necessary.
    Personally, I think it is fine for someone to post start a thread which is explicitly
    political, such as the one Hector did (I hope I remember right) on the immigration
    issue. \r\n\r\nAgain, the real problem is not political discussion but rather
    demeaning remarks about individuals and groups. "
  created: '2006-05-26 16:08:29'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "George,\r\n\r\n I am glad you agree.\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2006-05-26 16:08:54'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>Personally, I think it is fine for someone to post start a threat which
    is explicitly political, such as the one Hector did (I hope I remember right)
    on the immigration issue.</em>\r\n\r\nI stand by my view that politics should
    be avoided. People feel too strongly...feelings get hurt...has nothing to do with
    fonts...scares away newcomers that could be new blood.\r\n\r\nIf there was an
    \"Anything Goes\" discussion section, it could have a warning. then it would be
    like attending the Colosseum to watch the slaughter."
  created: '2006-05-26 16:13:35'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "William,\r\n\r\nI agree, \"demeaning remarks about individuals and groups\".
    \r\n\r\nThose unkind remarks are uncalled for and has no legitimate position in
    the forum. It is \"outside the bounds of civility\". \r\n\r\nWe may all learn
    to \"bite our tongues\".\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2006-05-26 16:15:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Could we create a \"Boxing Ring\" Forum? That way, anyone who likes this
    sort of reciprocal podiatric mutual urination can go there and relieve themselves
    on each other. This would leave the rest of us, who are sick of it, to discuss
    and even debate issues of typography without fear that a thread would be hijacked
    and killed by a piszing contest.\r\nThis would also create a place to move posts
    that stray out of the realm of substantive discussion.  What I mean is, instead
    of censorship and removal of a post, it could be moved to the \"Boxing Ring\"
    where the combatants, if they so desired, could go and continue their pugilistic
    tirades. This would be then the online version of a parent saying to a child,
    \"Go to your room and come back when you are ready to behave with respect for
    others.\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-26 16:15:59'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: 'ChrisL, I think you have a wonderful idea. I love the way you phrased it. '
  created: '2006-05-26 16:18:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Hrant, I think your weakest arguements are political. They don't seem to
    hold any sort of water whatever. I wait to be enlightened. I find Stephen Fry
    to be the most thoughful as of last week. I'll send you a link if you want. (Of
    course your ideas about type are altogether different. Long may you continue to
    think!) \r\n\r\nAs far as rants & fights & insults. I have to agree that keeping
    it within core topic seems best to me in general. But we are going to stray outside
    and for good reason. Type is connected to world. Which is great or type would
    be irrelevant. Which it isn't ( or we don't think so or we wouldn't be here).
    \r\n\r\nAs far as Patty's concerns. Yes Patty... the water is dirtier on typophile
    that would be ideal - BUT - don't be silly & let that put you off. It's still
    by far the best place to be if you are thinking about type or want to learn more
    from your type brother & sisters.\r\n\r\nAnd my thanks to everybody here for making
    it that kind of place.\r\n\r\nI have been in Toronto & Buffalo NY ( Montreal now
    ) meeting really wonderful type people - something that I doubt would have happened
    without Typophile. \r\n"
  created: '2006-05-26 16:18:20'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: And I don't cotton to the idea of censorship. Rebuke from your peers seems
    like the right thing; or that tool so little employed - ignoring the offender.  Impefect
    they may be, but being an adult requires patience. And lots of it.
  created: '2006-05-26 16:26:35'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nI am happy you agree with me about the \"ring idea\".\r\n\r\nWhat
    I see is that we all agree that there is a \"problem\". We seem to agree that
    we don't like censorship. Some of us agree that, or at least Chris does about
    the \"ring\" idea. This should make everyone happy. Although still, as in a boxing
    match, \"rules of engagement should still apply. For instance, \"no hitting below
    the belt\".  \r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2006-05-26 16:31:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Just to be clear on where I do advocate censorship. Slander of individuals,
    and especially statements as to their competence in their fields, should not be
    allowed to stand in the Typophile record. Aside from being illegal, they are harmful
    to a person''s reputation and ability to make an income. This kind of stuff should
    be censored in my view, and is rightly self-censored by a lot of editors. '
  created: '2006-05-26 16:38:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If you have a problem with ...\r\n> But don\u2019t pin these ideas to people.\r\n\r\nPaul,
    that's pretty elegant - I hadn't thought of it.\r\nAlthough insinuation can't
    be totally avoided, I think\r\nthis might strike a great balance. (I've edited
    my post.)\r\n\r\n> I have revised my post above to read \u201Cwhat I\r\n> take
    to be Hrant\u2019s advocacy of autocracy\u201D\r\n\r\nI'm pretty sure Paul wanted
    the \"Hrant\" (and my \"William\", which is now\r\ngone) out of there. But I don't
    think he should try to force you to remove it.\r\n\r\n> Though I note that Hrant
    did not object to that formulation.\r\n\r\nI think there's a limit to that line
    of logic.\r\nAnybody reading something like that is a factor.\r\n\r\nAlso, William:
    You should class religion with politics. Can you handle that?\r\n\r\n> I think
    it is fine for someone to post start a thread which is explicitly political\r\n\r\nWhile
    I think that is clearly one thing that must not be encouraged.\r\nSame with religion.\r\n\r\n>
    I feel that Typophile IS dying a slow death\r\n\r\nI don't think so, and I think
    to some extent you're over-reacting. That one person shouldn't have left (as I
    told him). Also, you should assume that there were more reasons than just the
    Typophile insult that he left. I'm basing these opinions on 8+ years of mixing
    it up bigtime in online type discussion fora.\r\n\r\nIf there is any real ill
    health, it's in the area of [lack of] type crits.\r\nI'd worry more about how
    to fix that.\r\n\r\n> piszing\r\n\r\nI know you like eszets, but come on.  ;-)\r\n\r\nBTW,
    the boxing ring idea can't work, because it's not all just about venting.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-26 16:40:50'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>We may all learn to \u201Cbite our tongues\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nideally,
    this is the perfect solution. perhaps it's my place as moderator simply to remind
    others when to bite theirs. by the same token, feel free to let me know when i
    need to bite mine. thank you hrant & william for editing your posts, this gives
    me hope for future incidents."
  created: '2006-05-26 16:56:45'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Slander, or would that be \"Libel\".\r\n\r\nTypophile is a form of publishing.
    Censorship in automatic in that lawsuits are possible.\r\n\r\nA forum however
    has the advantage that one is able to \"somewhat counter attacks directly\", which
    I suspect would limit some liability. In fact leagally it is one's obligation
    to limit liability which means helping the person who is speaking against you.\r\nLegally
    speaking, determination of damages is always the question.\r\n\r\nSlander is somewhat
    more insideous at times, it often happens behind ones back, not to mention harder
    to prove, as it is \"heresay\" evidence only.\r\n\r\nI am against censorship.
    It is the price of freedom. That does not mean I agree with what people say, or
    how they say it. In that sense, I do not tolerate, intolerance.\r\n\r\nMaybe there
    is better way of saying that?\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2006-05-26 16:58:52'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "There are so many strong people and ideas here. At the risk of sounding simple,
    sometimes I try to contribute in proportion to what I take. Maybe a post in type
    ID or critique for every post elsewhere could be a way of creating a wider focus.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not saying that many people here don't already do that."
  created: '2006-05-26 17:11:48'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn9221
  created: '2006-05-26 17:17:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I am happy you agree with me about the \u201Cring idea\u201D.\"\r\n\r\nGerald,\r\nI
    am glad to see great minds think alike :-) I hadn't even read your post when I
    was writing mine--I am the worlds slowest typist :-)\r\n\r\nSo Bravo Gerald, great
    idea! I must have a future as a mind reader :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-26 17:18:53'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>I am against censorship. It is the price of freedom.</em>\r\n\r\nIn my
    mind, censorship is when just one side of an argument is excluded to promote the
    other side. This is essentially what is really feared by most people, I think.\r\n\r\nBut
    in a sense, we continually censor all kinds of things in life by rules or penalties
    to protect some environment. Like censoring speeding in residential areas.\r\n\r\nPlease
    keep in mind, most people who stick around any online forum over time have fairly
    thick skin. But many are scared away, or at least refrain from participating because
    they fear some unpleasant attack.\r\n\r\nOften things are said online that wouldn't
    be said face-to-face. And I think that most of us could sit down in a restaurant
    and have a good time in person. I don't think there is anything wrong in cultivating
    a family atmosphere in a place meant for growth and development in an artistic
    pursuit.\r\n\r\nAs fonts relate to communication, I think discussion of all kinds
    of things may apply, but there is nothing wrong in making a place where the fallout
    from the potentially explosive topics be contained."
  created: '2006-05-26 17:20:56'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Paul,\r\n\r\n\u201Cbite our tongues\u201D\r\n\r\nThat is the most admiral
    method of censorship. More often that I wish to admit I wish I could \"suck words\"
    back into my lungs.\r\n\r\nBest to think first.\r\n\r\nI have another suggestion.
    You have \"Preview comment\", \"Post Comment\". Maybe after you hit the post comment
    you could have a warning come up that reads, are you sure you want to say that,
    \"Cancel\", \"Continue\" options.\r\n\r\nSorry I must go.\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2006-05-26 17:22:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Slander, or would that be \u201CLibel\u201D.\r\n\r\nYou're right, my mistake.
    It is precisely because stuff can stay around a long time that malicious stuff
    against individuals should be cut out of the record. I don't think and certainly
    hope that no lawsuits will ever happen because of a Typophile discussion. But
    the principle of not letting injurious stuff stay in the public record is a good
    one anyway, in my view. \r\n\r\n>William: You should class religion with politics.
    Can you handle that?\r\n\r\nSure, they should be treated the same. Tiresome axe-grinding
    should be warned against by moderators, and name-calling stopped. But discussion
    on both should be allowed when relevant. \r\n\r\nIncidentally, it is months since
    I have mentioned religion on Typophile, I think, and I don't accept your characterization
    that I drag it in constantly. I just yesterday had an interesting dialogue on
    the ID board with a fellow who is interested in what Jewish law and ethics has
    to say about protection of intellectual property rights, in particular fonts.
    I think it was a perfectly appropriate discussion for Typophile. "
  created: '2006-05-26 17:29:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Tiresome axe-grinding should be warned against by moderators, </em>\r\n\r\nNo
    more readability threads. Alright!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-26 17:31:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Eben:\r\nDemocracy is to government what Comic Sans is to reading. In a number
    of ways.\r\n\r\n> ideally, this is the perfect solution.\r\n\r\nNo. The ideal
    solution is total tolerance (including of intolerance).\r\nBut since that's not
    humanly possible, some compromise is helpful.\r\nLike this:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/6268
    _\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/16005\r\n\r\n> many are scared away\r\n\r\nLike
    in anything else, some people just don't have what it takes.\r\nMaking good fonts
    is no guarantee of any other attribute, really.\r\nIt's sad, but that's the way
    it is. On the other hand, care for the\r\ngreater good and plain old graciousness
    leave room for some\r\naccomodation of those who need the help.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-26 17:36:02'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<em>\"They make a wilderness and call it peace.\"</em> \u2013 Tacitus\r\n\r\nI
    think censorship, apart from being a burden on moderators, who like the rest of
    us have family and business to take care of, would reduce the joys of Typophile
    and create more problems and fewer answers.\r\nTim\r\n\r\n<em>\"When I became
    a man, I put away childish things, including the fear of childishness and the
    desire to be very grown up.\"</em> - C.S. Lewis\r\n<em>\"When you have found your
    own room, be kind to those who have chosen different doors and to those who are
    still in the hall.\"</em> - C. S Lewis\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-26 17:46:02'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "It is natural to get upset about gross affronts to one's sensibilities, perceived
    insults, ridicule of one's often hard-won choices, lack of understanding for or
    sympathy with one's motivations; it is unreasonable to expect they won't be addressed;
    it would be nice if it was enough just to say: 'I am bothered by this' or 'so
    be it'; I am at a loss about what to do if that isn't enough; it is important
    to remain focussed: to not let them get in the way.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-05-26 17:52:57'
- author:
    name: jlusby
    picture: 111084
  body: "Regardless of the \"growth\" or \"health\" this arguing builds, I feel like
    its part of the reason why I stopped visiting this site so frequently in the first
    place. I'm a young designer, and I feel like some of the \"one-up-manship\" around
    here gets out of hand sometimes. \r\n\r\nSo lets give the kids like me something
    to look forward to. Rather than the life of a negative, holier-than-thou attitude
    that seems to plague these boards.\r\n\r\nAnd if you have trouble finding that
    inner happiness, give this site a try:\r\nhttp://www.cuteoverload.com/"
  created: '2006-05-26 18:06:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This is a good opportunity to tell a story, a true story\r\nof high relevance
    here. But I'll try to keep it short.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nSome years ago I was accused
    -as I periodically am, although that time it was quite incisive and eloquent-
    of causing valuable contributors to stay away from public discussion, in that
    case involving the venerable (and now apparently doddering) Typo-L. Due partly*
    to that, I decided to unsubscribe, and urged people to tell those who were staying
    away that the coast is clear. But they did not come. Also, nobody left because
    I did AFAIK. For a few months some people urged me to come back (and originaly
    I was actually planning to do that <cite>if</cite> those who were allegedly staying
    away never showed up) but I figured it was actually a good thing: it was a fruitful
    social experiment, I proved a point, and now I waste less time online!  :-/\r\n\r\n*
    Paul: <cite>partly</cite>. There were other reasons (that no single person can
    be blamed for).\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nIn the end, it's not the individuals who make/break
    a society, it's the mindframe.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-26 18:08:32'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<i>The sun must be shining even in Cincy by now :-)</i>\r\n\r\nActually,
    I haven't been in Cincy for over two months. I moved back to Washington, DC and
    \ now work in Maryland.\r\n\r\nI guess I'm both a little amused and a little disappointed
    that a thread started to address fighting, has contained nearly EXACTLY the same
    level of bickering that the post was intended to address. While it makes complete
    sense that certain topics will spawn other issues (religion, ethics, etc.). Discussing
    political ideologies often seem to get us nowhere.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, by picking
    whatever a person's chosen form of ethics (philospher's, religion, the U.S. Constitution)
    a declaration has already been made as to \"this is best.\" Then this gets into
    how many books, so and so has read on the subject, how Lenin ultimately paved
    the way for Stalin, and a bunch of other things that prove just who is intellectually
    superior to the other.\r\n\r\nThe point is, we're all adults here and we know
    what's right and wrong...And I for second am not foolish enough to believe that
    before we all hit the \"Post comment\" button that we're not in some way aware
    that what was typed could be deemed offensive. Our mothers shouldn't have to slap
    our hands anymore to let us know the stove is hot."
  created: '2006-05-26 18:19:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> we know what\u2019s right and wrong\r\n\r\nI don't think so. I <cite>know</cite>
    <strong>I</strong> don't.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-26 18:40:21'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>On the other hand, care for the greater good and plain old graciousness
    leave room for some accomodation of those who need the help.</em>\r\n\r\nYes.
    \r\n\r\nAs far as moderation goes, I have seen good (sometimes the best) people
    flee a forum because they had better things to do than filter out hogwash. So
    I am for anything that promotes a friendly overall  atmosphere."
  created: '2006-05-26 18:55:04'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "Every forum has rules about civility and  relevance. Civility means mutual
    respect regardless of race, ethnicity, religion, gender and, in my view, sexual
    orientation.  Relevance means relevance to the subject matter of the forum. While
    debates about artistic and design ideology are in my view relevant to typography,
    debates about political policy that have nothing to do with typography, such as
    the Iraq war or local concerns about immigration, are not.  Some fora have an
    off-topic sub-forum where people can pursue political issues if they desire. Personally,
    I'm not keen on this, but it does provide an outlet for those who can't make it
    to Hyde Park. \r\n\r\nThe rules of a forum, regardless of whether they have been
    created by the owner of the site or by consensus of the participants, need to
    be enforced if the forum is going to flourish. It seems to me that censorship
    is the wrong word to describe doing what is necessary to ensure adherence to the
    rules.  \r\n\r\nMy experience is that most people are prepared to adhere. However,
    there are people who simply won't unless they are reined in. Also, many people,
    if not most, have their \"moments\".  The question is, how are the rules going
    to be enforced in such instances? \r\n\r\nI believe that the existence of a moderator,
    who is prepared to step in, is essential.  Self-control does not work when self-control
    has broken down.  \r\n\r\nMy belief is based on long-term experience with three
    discussion groups that have minimal problems with the kinds of issues discussed
    in this thread. The common denominator of these groups is the existence of a moderator
    (in one case two moderators) who is active in the discussions, who is prepared
    to step in when things start to get out of hand, who has a talent for doing so
    in a diplomatic manner and who has the respect of the participants.  In each case,
    the moderator is prepared, when he or she deems it appropriate, to delete a post
    or lock a thread.  The result is that everybody understands the rules, and eggregious
    behaviour, together with the need to step in, is relatively rare. People who prefer
    anarchy, or who don't like the rules, are at liberty to start their own forum.
    \   \r\n\r\nA successful discussion group, like any meeting, requires a hands-on
    chair/moderator. I realize that this places a burden on moderators that they may
    not want to bear. To be blunt, that is beside the point. Successful discussion
    groups must have a person or persons who have both the time and the inclination
    to play this role. \r\n\r\nThe alternative is the same as what happens at a rudderless
    meeting.  A small group of people highjack the meeting, the discussion deteriorates
    (and frequently becomes highly repetitive), and everyone else exits via the nearest
    door.\r\n\r\nSome of the participants in this thread have suggested that the solution
    is to ignore individuals or posts that don't play by the rules. I have tried that
    on this forum. As someone else pointed out, it doesn't work. Without getting into
    detail about why, what happens is that the thread becomes impossible to follow."
  created: '2006-05-26 18:56:16'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>Every forum has rules about civility and relevance.</em>\r\n\r\nWell
    said! "
  created: '2006-05-26 19:06:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Redge, I agree with some of what you say, but one thing I must counter is
    your desire to separate politics and type. As Eben I think it was said, that's
    not possible; I would add that it's not even desirable. For example, there are
    facets to the Iraq war (such as the looting of their museum by what many people
    believe were western entities) that are quite strongly cultural, and hence in
    some way (sometimes in quite a strong way) related to type. Fonts are not just
    pretty shapes. My Nour & Patria system for one was motivated directly by politics.\r\n\r\n>
    I have tried that on this forum.\r\n> As someone else pointed out, it doesn\u2019t
    work.\r\n\r\nMaybe you haven't tried hard enough? Or you're not capable of it?\r\nHonestly
    I'm not trying to strike you down here - each of us is\r\ngood and bad at different
    things - and our differences should be\r\nnot only tolerated, but celebrated.
    But my point is, the fact that\r\nit failed for you doesn't mean it must be bad.
    In fact as some others\r\nhave attested, for them it works fine. And it could
    still work for you.\r\n\r\n\"I am resplendent in divergence.\"\r\n- Robert Fripp\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: redge
    body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nTwo of the discussion groups to which I referred are for
      people who make motion pictures.  One of those groups is specifically for people
      who make documentary films.  Many documentary filmmakers express their political
      and social views in their work.  Recently, one of the participants won an important
      award for a film that he made about Iraq.  The discussion within the group was
      about his film as a film, including the views that it expressed.  Despite the
      fact that the people in the group come from the right, the centre and the left,
      he was not attacked or mocked for his views, and the discussion did not degenerate
      into a debate about the war generally.\r\n\r\nI don't have a problem if someone
      wants to argue that a political ideology is reflected in a particular type face
      or if someone wants to talk about his or her attempts to embody an ideology
      in a type face. That is what I was trying to capture, however imperfectly, when
      I referred to \"artistic and design ideology\", concepts that can include, but
      are broader than, social and political views.\r\n\r\nI do have a problem when
      the discussion becomes principally about the politics or if someone is berrated
      for having allegedly expressed a particular ideology in his or her work.\r\n\r\n\r\nOn
      your other point, I can only say that I have found that I cannot follow some
      of the threads on this forum through selective reading and still make sense
      of the thread (see the word highjacked in my earlier post).  In other words,
      I am indeed incapable of doing it, and I am not planning to spend time trying
      to acquire the skill.\r\n"
    created: '2006-05-26 21:11:37'
  created: '2006-05-26 20:21:00'
- author:
    name: C Swann
  body: "People, People, brothers and sisters, why are we fighting? Why are we fighting?
    \ We don't want to fight. Everybody just cool out. C'mon we can get it together.
    Everybody sit down. Just sit down. \r\n\r\nJagger"
  created: '2006-05-26 20:24:10'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "CASE IN POINT\r\n\r\n\"Maybe you haven\u2019t tried hard enough?\"\r\n\"Or
    you\u2019re not capable of it?\"\r\n\r\nWas the second statement necessary?\r\nWere
    it directed at me I would consider it inflamatory or a slight. To the first I
    could say: Perhaps."
  created: '2006-05-26 20:49:17'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "\"The antidote to rage is the power of compassion and acceptance of the dignity
    of all\"\r\n- William Berkson\r\n\r\nLove it.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-26 22:13:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, but still: there is no love without hate.\r\n\r\n> I am not planning
    to spend time trying to acquire the skill.\r\n\r\nI cannot blame you. It's not
    clear that the effort (even if\r\nit might not be too much in your case) would
    be worth it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-26 22:17:50'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "In all things is contained the opposite, as cognitives we have choices\u2026\r\n\r\nsuffering
    on cloudy peaks\r\nthe cold air of joy\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-26 22:21:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...there is no love without hate\"\r\n\r\nIf you truly believe that, I
    am truly sorry for you. It must be painful going through life so scarred by hatered
    that you come to that belief. I hope you can find peace within yourself.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-26 22:22:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Paul: Yes. The notan of life.\r\n\r\nChris:\r\nThe relative peace within
    me is hopefully balanced with other things,\r\nas opposed to being a cozy illusion
    fostered by not being challenged.\r\n\r\nIf you want to feel sorry for something,
    feel sorry for my people.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-26 22:25:24'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "\u201C\u2026there is no love without hate\u201D\r\n\r\nI believe that too.
    And it comforts me.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-26 22:25:50'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>If you want to feel sorry for something, feel sorry for my people.</em>\r\n\r\nMost
    of the time I'm willing to chalk your crypticness up to you being part of some
    secret 17th level font Illuminati, but this one intrigues me: \"my people\"?\r\n\r\nDo
    you mean the Armenians? If so, I am unaware of their plight. Something to do with
    Iran?"
  created: '2006-05-26 22:56:51'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "fontplayer - <a href=\"http://www.armenian-genocide.org/genocidefaq.html\">plight</a>\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-26 23:20:35'
- author:
    name: track and kern
  body: "I have been part of this site for a long time, since the new typophile site,
    however my old handle no longer worked for some reason. Before a short while ago,
    i did not post, I only lurked in the background. Now, as I have become somewhat
    of a participant, I do think that personal opinions are relevant to any discussion;
    especially one that hits upon a sore spot within the creative community as a whole.\r\n\r\nAdditionally,
    I do tend to not post much here, as I have not been [accepted] per say; not to
    mention that in real life I am a difficult person to get along with. Most find
    me abrasive, caustic, and too much of a realist; so they chose to not speak with
    me. However, there are those that come and speak with me specifically for these
    traits. I won't martyr myself here, as I am likely flawed in more ways than most
    others, but my recent attitude cannot be excused. Furthermore, I do not feel that
    it should need to be, as the responses I posted, and edited, were pertinent to
    the discussion topic, and merely clarified my position on a specific topic. If
    they were interpreted as anything else, than i beg you to forgive this, as I may
    have not worded them in a clear and concise manner.\r\n\r\nMore often than not,
    especially in the thread that I am referencing above, I find that there is a lot
    of \"elitists\" here, and that the banter is extremely stilted; often times to
    the point that it is above my comprehension. If there is one thing that bothers
    me most about this collective, it would be this characteristic style of cryptically
    concealing information inside a verbose series of statements that are understood
    by few, however, viewed by many. I wish I were of the caliber of writer, and reader
    to be able to comprehend a lot the material here, but it seems that I just don't
    measure up. A majority of the content, aside from any critique or technical discussion,
    is where I find myself aloof amongst the moderators and other prolific members.\r\n\r\nRecently,
    I have tried to be a more compliant member, and help others with questions they
    have posted, as most have acted kindly to me in the past. Looking ahead, I wish
    to continue doing so, but I will not refrain from expressing my opinions when
    they are relative to a threads content. Communication is nothing more than the
    expression of ideas and opinions, even that which is stated as factual knowledge
    was and is based on a series of subjective observations of this world. Moderating
    the content of this forum, and the statements of its members is a little too Orwellian
    for me to tolerate, and I would hope that things would never come down to this.
    I, and everyone else, are responsible for what we communicate, whether it is understood
    partially, entirely, or not at all.\r\n\r\nFew choices are left to me, as the
    mood of typophile either settles or continues to become irritated; for any disturbance
    that can be solely attributed to my doing was unintentional."
  created: '2006-05-26 23:31:45'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "Hrant, a quick question.\r\n\r\nAbout 25-35 years ago, a well-known writer
    for The New Yorker published a book about his discovery of his Armenian heritage
    and his investigation of the genocide. \r\n\r\nI read the book a few years ago
    (it had a significant impact on me and was very well-written), but I can't remember
    the name of the writer and I can't readily find it through google, amazon, etc.
    I got it at a second-hand bookstore, and lost my copy during a move.  There is
    a high probability that it is out of print.\r\n\r\nThis has been bugging me for
    the last week, entirely your fault. Do you happen to know the name of the writer
    or the name of the book?\r\n\r\nOne other question. My father, who is a writer,
    introduced me as a kid to Saroyan senior. Is he still read in the Armenian community,
    or is he considered too sentimental/ passe (sorry, but I don't know how to do
    accents on this site)?"
  created: '2006-05-27 00:17:27'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> I find that there is a lot of \u201Celitists\u201D here\r\n\r\n100% right."
  created: '2006-05-27 00:36:46'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>fontplayer - plight</em>\r\n\r\nSo we are talking 1915? Anything current?
    Living right next to Iran is a scary thought."
  created: '2006-05-27 01:40:37'
- author:
    name: ginajane
    picture: 111607
  body: "Therapy for message board prolific posters:\r\n\r\n---Listen to understand
    rather than criticize\r\n\r\n---Share ideas and thoughts that enlighten, spark
    new ideas, or deeper thought\r\n\r\n---Ask Questions with as much detail as possible
    so those who can help are providing the best answers and help.\r\n\r\n---Put the
    comments into an imaginary sorting box and look at them when you can be objective.
    \ Value and implement the good. Toss out the bad.\r\n\r\n---If a response or statement
    appears to be a personal attack- rather than a critique--- let it land at your
    feet... then step forward, crushing the words quietly beneath your feet, as you
    respond with dignity and grace.\r\n\r\n---If boredom, loneliness or depression
    is the motivator for meanness, nasty attacks, and constant criticism...You are
    considered a message baord troll...and you need therapy, not this forum.\r\n\r\nOne
    final question:\r\n\r\nIf your words and deeds were compared to typeface and fonts---
    what typeface or font fits you?\r\n\r\n---and is that 'type face' / font how you
    want to present your 'face' to the world?\r\n\r\nIf not, make a change.\r\n\r\n\r\n***
    gina jane ***\r\ngraphic design, fine artist,\r\nsite owner of DAISIE,LLC\r\n\r\n'relationships
    are the greatest art'\r\n\r\nhttp://www.daisiecompany.com"
  created: '2006-05-27 02:15:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Beirut during Hrant's childhood was a scary thought.\r\nI have seen children
    of war in Viet Nam in 1968. They never had a childhood. They could never feel
    that their parents could keep them safe. They never could feel they had a future
    beyond the moment. Trying to find some semblance of order and normalcy is impossible
    for an adult--for a child it is devastating. When horror becomes the norm for
    a child, peace within one's self is not possible.  The scars never leave, the
    anxiety never fades.  Cheating death another day becomes a pastime but buries
    its seed deep to bloom later in uncontrolled ways.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: redge
    body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nYour post, if it is directed at Hrant, as it appears to be,
      is exactly the kind of post that the moderators should come down on.\r\n\r\nIf
      this is what this site tolerates, I'm not long for it.\r\n\r\nIf I want to spend
      my time on a newsnet newsgroup, I know where to find one. \r\n\r\nYour previous
      expression of pity was bad enough, but you have now gone way over the line.\r\n\r\nThere
      really is a point where the people who run this forum have to decide whether
      they are running a professional operation or the equivalent of a discussion
      between 18 year olds in a pub who have had too much to drink. "
    created: '2006-05-27 02:44:01'
  created: '2006-05-27 02:16:56'
- author:
    name: ginajane
    picture: 111607
  body: "Just wanted to add----\r\nMy brother Joseph (Joe) Pemberton and his colleague
    created Typophile. \r\n\r\nTypophile is a wonderful place. I hope you all will
    participate here with reverence and respect for each other...\r\n\r\nIf for no
    other reason, but to honor my brother who puts his heart and soul into everything
    he does.\r\n\r\nKindness. It's an amazing thing.\r\n\r\nThanks for listening.\r\n\r\n\r\n***
    gina jane ***\r\nartist/designer/site owner\r\nhttp://www.daisiecompany.com\r\n\r\n'relationships
    are the greatest art'"
  created: '2006-05-27 02:50:51'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "ChrisL\r\n\r\nIf your point was shock, it worked.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-27 02:59:31'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Fwiw, it was poetically stated:\r\n\r\n<em>Cheating death another day becomes
    a pastime but buries its seed deep to bloom later in uncontrolled ways.</em>\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 03:07:55'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "It isn't just shock, it is outrageous. \r\n\r\nBetween bizarre attempts to
    turn Patty Fabricant's question into a debate about Aristotle, and Chris's (and
    others') fundamentally astounding remarks, I think that I am in a very unpleasant
    version of Wonderland or, to use the current vernacular, a really bad version
    of The Matrix.\r\n\r\nFrom my point of view, this is a bad scene, and that is
    an understatement.\r\n\r\nNot that I matter. I have particular reasons for following
    this site at the moment, and I can do it temporarily, and then drop out. \r\n\r\nYou
    know what really surprises me?  There are some really interesting topics outstanding,
    and they are being ignored.   \r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 03:11:09'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "My version:\r\n\r\nalive again\r\nthe buds arose,\r\nblooming butterflies\r\n\r\n:)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-27 03:20:24'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "Paul,\r\n\r\nNo, I am in a position to say what I think, and I am going to
    do so. \r\n\r\nChris's last couple of posts leave me stunned, and I can't believe
    that a legitimate forum would let them stand. \r\n\r\nSecondly, the attempts to
    turn Patty's complaint about lack of civility into an intellectual debate about
    Greek philosophers is one of the most bizarre things that I have ever witnessed.\r\n\r\nThis
    business about Aristotle makes about as much sense as Hrant's comments, in an
    earlier thread, about what he perceives to be my Anglo background. \r\n\r\nI believe
    that this debate would make great fodder for a skit for Monty Python or Kids in
    the Hall (or to be more contemporary, Ricky Gervais, preferably paired with Scott
    Thompson, just to amuse the anti-gay participants).  \r\n\r\nWhether the people
    who run this site want outsiders like myself, who may stick around if they think
    that they are dealing with adults, to do so, is entirely up to them."
  created: '2006-05-27 03:46:14'
- author:
    name: track and kern
  body: Seems someone else feels the same way I do. My position is one of interest,
    and I to participate because I am interested. Nothing more needs to be said, other
    than that I completely agree with everything redge has said so far.
  created: '2006-05-27 03:56:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chris, your depiction of a \"war child\" contains a lot of truth - I'm happy
    to see you're aware of this stuff. As you might suspect of a war child, I'm not
    shocked at all. Shocking was seeing a head on a bench in a public park. But of
    course every war child is different! Although it's true that I don't remember
    feeling like a child after about age 6, and I do have trouble planning for the
    future, I actually think my parents did fine, and most of all, I don't remember
    being afraid (except for a certain 5 minutes where I came quite close to being
    executed) and I never cried (not even when my uncle was assassinated). I'm not
    sure why. Maybe I was eased into it, maybe it's my genes, or maybe I was lucky
    to start the war at an insensitive age, and got a foothold that way. For example,
    my brother, who is 4.5 years older, is  a lot like me in this way (although he's
    a gentler soul) but my sister, who is 8.5 years older, cried a lot. When the lighted
    anti-aircraft bullets would streak up at nights, she'd hide in her room - my brother
    and I went to the balcony.\r\n\r\nYes, it's quite strange living in a society
    that seems at peace. But part of the reason it's strange is because I think most
    people around me are peons who don't realize that there never is total peace -
    and that's actually a good thing. It's not healthy living a society secluded from
    the \"real world\" outside your borders. It causes you to adore your SUV, to vote
    for war criminals for president, to not see that the Founding Fathers were just
    good businessmen, etc. I don't think these people are \"normal\", and I don't
    think I'm \"abnormal\". War (conflict) is in all of us, it's in every aspect of
    life. I remember telling a group of Dutchies during a dinner after a type conference
    about my war-time upbringing. Thomas Milo (who has served as a UN peacekeeper
    in Lebanon) was the only one who \"got it\", smiling sadly - there is a great
    sadness to missing war.* Evert Bloemsma couldn't relate, but his powerful intellect
    and wisdom allowed him to listen with fascination, and learn things from the discussion.
    Then there was this young lady whose jaw dropped open and stayed that way, and
    at one point exclaimed: \"All I've seen is neat rows of tulips!\" Was I supposed
    to feel envy? I felt pity. Remembering my favorite Heraclitus quote, it makes
    me feel that she's had only one parent.\r\n\r\n* BTW, I highly recommend the book
    \"The Adventurist\".\r\nI related to that author like I've never related to\r\nalmost
    anybody in my life - certainly no author.\r\n\r\nLife is sort of a long anti-climax,
    after surviving a war. Once in a blue moon it actually makes me cry, but most
    of the time it makes me very proud. I think it's what's given me my ability to
    doubt convention, to persevere, to be tolerant, and to see aspects of life that
    I'm sure must be invisible to the peons. And what makes me most proud is that
    some years ago I realized all this, and have come to terms with it, have learned
    to embrace the dark half of life (which everybody has, just to different degrees).
    This makes me feel like I can generally be happy living with this aspect of my
    being, or at least know its effects on me, and what types of things can make me
    happy.\r\n\r\nBut most of all: I'm not just a war child, I'm Armenian. I am -quite
    literally- the grandchild of the unrecognized genocide. This you are unlikely
    to ever fathom. Maybe for that I am envious of you.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nAs for whether
    Chris is going too far, as far as I'm concerned, no.\r\nBut he does go too far
    when he (or his friend) complains about posts\r\nlike this that I make. Really
    Chris, that's not fair. And I think it's\r\na manifestation of the \"darkness\"
    you have in you yourself too.\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\nYou guys know what's really interesting?
    We seem to make fonts\r\nbased on beliefs like this. It seems to me that the difference\r\nbetween
    thinking that war is Evil and that everything must be\r\nin balance is parallel
    to the difference between display fonts\r\nand text fonts; the difference between
    the black and notan; and\r\na bunch of other things, like perhaps the West and
    the East.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 05:14:23'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "Now I get it. \r\n\r\nI'm outta here. \r\n\r\n\r\nI'd appreciate it if the
    people who run this site would delete my registration/account and confirm that
    they have done so. \r\n\r\nCheers. "
  created: '2006-05-27 05:30:49'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "When folks are passionate about an idea they will debate it. The list would
    hardly hold any interest if not. And there are some heavy-hitters here whose freely
    given information is invaluable.\r\n\r\nFor an alternative perspective go here\r\n\r\nhttp://blogs.msdn.com/fontblog/\r\n\r\nwhere
    absolute morons argue with each other about fonts and other stuff\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 06:36:54'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>I\u2019m not shocked at all.</em>\r\n\r\nWould have shocked me if you
    were. I was pretty sure of that. I'm surprised people who have been around longer
    wouldn't have figured that out. You put the energizer rabbit to shame.\r\n; )"
  created: '2006-05-27 06:45:50'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I don't see what is wrong with Chris honestly discussing his experiences
    in Vietnam, or Hrant discussing his experiences growing up in Beirut. These posts
    show real human emotion, and additionally, wisdom. Cheap shots are another matter
    altogether. I don't understand the calls for the last few Hrant or Chris posts
    to be reigned in at all, sorry.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 12:52:34'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Gina Jane, wow! You and Joe must have some family\u2026\r\n\r\nI wish my
    sister would post on Typophile ;-)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: ginajane
      picture: 111607
    body: "dan_reynods: \"Gina Jane, wow! You and Joe must have some family\u2026\r\n\r\nI
      wish my sister would post on Typophile ;-) \"\r\n\r\nThanks Dan.  My brother
      is awesome. I'm just a visitor and guest hoping to gain knowledge from his amazing
      place on the net.\r\nI don't get social mileage out of his accomplishments.
      He stands on his own merits! \r\n\r\nJoe rocks. :-)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n*** gina
      jane ***\r\n\r\n'relationships are the greatest art'"
    created: '2006-05-28 03:52:55'
  created: '2006-05-27 12:54:45'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "Democracy is the right to freedom of speech and opinions, in a manner of
    speaking, as long as that right does not impinge upon what legally we now call
    racial, personal and political vilification. To generalise, mankind has based
    his whole civilisation, his advancement within the animal kingdom, and his personal
    place within the pecking order by demeaning those who either oppose him, or look
    like being able to challenge him. It is the nature of our beast. We can not help
    ourselves. The civility that is requested is just a veneer over our base instincts
    for mental and physical attacks, our beastiality. \r\n\r\nEveryone who appears
    on this board are not neccessarily from a democracy, as such, and we should also
    respect their views as we expect them to respect ours.\r\n\r\nIt would be nice
    to see the attacks reined in or watered down, as it does affect those with a gentler
    view of life, but occasionally we just plain can't help ourselves. there are a
    few here who I can see posting remarks asking for the 'language' to be toned down,
    the bile and garbage to be kept in check, but unfortunately I have seen these
    same people shout some rather nasty statements themselves, one in particuar directed
    at me.\r\n\r\nIt is futile.\r\n\r\nAnd in regard to Hrant. I personally feel his
    satirical acerbic nature makes him the man he is and it would be a loss to cotton
    candy this down. Yes, it feels pretty crappy when you are in his firing line,
    and I feel sorry for those people, but just think, at least he doen't live next
    door to you* !\r\n\r\n\r\n*This is a joke for those who don't see the obvious.\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 13:02:06'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Redge, I'm baffled.\r\nDan, I agree.\r\nHrant, Thanks. We should all know
    eachother's stories.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-05-27 13:25:29'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "Hey, Track and Kern, I respected your opinions in regard to other thread,
    maybe didn't agree wholly with you, but I did edit out my reply post as unapproporiate,
    you shouldn't have edited out some of yours though. Just thought you should know
    that.\r\n\r\n\"My inferiority complex is more superior than yours\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 13:30:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...your depiction of a \u201Cwar child\u201D contains a lot of truth -
    I\u2019m happy to see you\u2019re aware of this stuff...\"\r\n\"Really Chris,
    that\u2019s not fair. And I think it\u2019s a manifestation of the \u201Cdarkness\u201D
    you have in you yourself too.\"\r\n\r\nHrant, I knew you would be the one who
    would understand my post. I was just trying to understand you and perhaps give
    others here a chance to understand you as well. I guess I failed badly at that.
    \ I did not mean to shock anyone.  I meant my post to reach out for healing in
    all of us who know pain. I know I have the darkness too. I am sorry to have caused
    you any discomfort.  \r\nAt least I was 23 years old and supposedly not a child
    in war. I quickly lost whatever innocence remained in me when I saw the \"accidental\"
    fate of children of war. You were a child and never had a chance.  Crying can
    be a healthy thing. Maybe you should have a long talk with your sister. Maybe
    we all should have a long talk with your sister.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-27 14:20:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ginajane,\r\n\r\nWe all love your brother and are glad you are proud of him.
    \ We are trying to get along--thanks to Joe and Jared, we have a place to try.
    Stay and keep us on track.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-27 14:26:37'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "The dark ones may not be as doomed as you imagine Chris.\r\n\r\nIn a tribal
    sense they have a huge role, which is to predict danger. Optimism helps the group
    move forward, sometimes with false hope. The darkness finds danger before it is
    upon us and warns us with enough time to act.\r\n\r\nOur fate is to be somewhat
    disregarded and disliked until we prove ourselves useful.\r\n\r\nShock is not
    always defacto bad. It is uselful and should be in the arsenal of any artist.
    I'm delighted when I'm truly shocked, because It can be hard to believe possible."
  created: '2006-05-27 14:51:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I don\u2019t see what is wrong with ...\r\n\r\nPlease express that view
    when Nick (or anybody of course) complains about being\r\n\"psychoanalysed\".
    Yes, some people -unlike me- mind it, sometimes a lot. But the\r\ndiscussion of
    personal context helps more people more. You could say it's the price\r\nof being
    public.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nChris, I wasn't sure if you were attacking me (indirectly)
    or not.\r\nEssentially, you were being candid - and you know what I think\r\nabout
    that. But most of all I wanted to use it as an opportunity to\r\nexpose my personal
    context. So thanks! And most of all, I need to\r\nkeep having long talks (or even
    just gut-level short bursts) with\r\neverybody.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 15:10:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I was not attacking you in any way, sorry it seemed that way.  I meant the
    opposite. I was hoping you would do exactly as you did and explain your history
    to all.  We can help eachother be more tolerant if we know eachother better. Your
    post went a long way in that direction.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-27 15:41:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I'm sure there are important truths to be learned in the extreme stress of
    war. But there are also some things 'learned' that are quite dysfunctional in
    peace time. Irving Janis, who started his long career studying how stress negatively
    affected fighter pilots, gave us great insights into this. \r\n\r\nHe called this
    dysfunctional state that extreme risk can induce 'hypervigilance'. One of its
    features is that you oversimplify and think in extremes only, in 'black-and-white'.
    It also shortens your time horizon, and narrows your thinking to looking at everything
    for its impact on you only. \r\n\r\nThe impact of this on people is that it can
    make them not so functional in the arts of peace: in being productive in work,
    in building cooperative relationships, in sustaining love.\r\n\r\nSo yes, I'm
    sure there are truths to be learned in war. But personally I thank my lucky stars
    that I was raised in one of the most peaceful times and places--the US midwest
    in the 1950s--by loving parents, with no physical threats other than polio and
    the far off Russian bear.   "
  created: '2006-05-27 15:43:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I certainly have many dysfunctional moments William and don't recomend war
    experience for anyone.  We do need some of us around to explain to the rest that
    war should be avoided.  I wish I were not the one though.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-27 15:50:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, that's certainly true. Although I don't think I exhibit most of
    those effects. For one thing, I'm extremely gray. Also, I'm a good negotiator,
    including between others (see the Comic Sans thread on SnogBlog). Maybe a <cite>civil</cite>
    war teaches you that. But yes, I do have quite a bit of dysfunction too. For one
    thing, you should hear how much I've paid the various traffic courts over the
    years!  :-/\r\n\r\nThe thing is, not seeing any conflict causes dysfunction as
    well. It causes you to be insensitive in another way, and essentially live under
    an illusion, caring more for seals than Palestinians for example. Most people
    I know here (and I don't mean LA - this city is actually very \"real\" in many
    ways) are extremely shallow.\r\n\r\nSo I in turn thank my lucky stars that I grew
    up between\r\nthe Eagle and the Bear. And between the Eagle and the Panda!\r\nEspecially
    when you're a minority, it's the best place to grow.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 16:20:38'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Fortune favors the brave. - Virgil\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-27 16:54:52'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>You put the energizer rabbit to shame.</em>\r\n\r\nCorrection I think
    I meant the Timex watch- \"Takes a licking and keeps on ticking.\", but the other
    one works too.\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 17:04:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Well, Hrant, my perception, which may or may not be my own craziness, is
    that in your discussions on Typophile you regularly divide the world into extreme
    categories of good guys and bad guys. The West is bad, developing countries good.
    Devotion to 'bouma' and 'notan' good. 'Modernists,' 'chirographers,' 'constructivists,'
    and 'artistes' bad. \r\n\r\nBecause of these extreme categories, anyone who has
    the temerity to disagree with your views and criticise them becomes 'bad'. Am
    I way wrong in my perception?"
  created: '2006-05-27 17:09:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, you could indeed say that I'm a Taoist, in that I see things existing
    always between two pure extreme concepts. BUT: nothing that actually exists is
    ever <cite>at</cite> an extreme - everything is always in between. I especially
    don't believe that good and bad <cite>\"guys\"</cite> exist. We each have everything
    within us. And I think the fact that I argue vigorously, and sometimes even violently,
    doesn't preclude this essential grayness.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 17:31:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I especially don\u2019t believe that good and bad \u201Cguys\u201D exist.
    \r\n\r\nSo Nick Shinn and I are not \"bad guys\"? Again, my impression is that
    your language has been much more black-and-white than the reasonable view you
    have just expressed. "
  created: '2006-05-27 17:57:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well of course you're not!\r\nLanguage: a funny thing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 18:08:24'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Maybe Hrant sees you as out of balance. That experience and integration of
    \"other\" involves presenting \"other\" as equally valid and functional.\r\n\r\nIf
    someone sees only blue sky, it would be odd to try and convince them that the
    sky was actually more blue than what they think. You would logically point out
    a storm cloud or two. The opposite would be just as true.\r\n\r\nNo one is neutral,
    but a Taoist might strive for that."
  created: '2006-05-27 18:15:02'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "The only way is to follow Nature,\r\nto drift on her Stream of Change\r\nwith
    neither joy nor fear -\r\nAnd when our time has come,\r\nto go without a trace.\r\n\r\nAn
    excerpt from The Spirit Speaks by Tao Chien (365-427 AD)\r\n\r\npeace\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 18:40:29'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Be in the air\r\nbut not the air\r\nbe in the no air\r\n\r\nAn excerpt from
    Free Will and Testament by Robert Wyatt, born Robert Ellidge, 28 January 1945
    to present."
  created: '2006-05-27 18:48:28'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: "look..\r\n\r\nthere's only one way\r\nand one way only \r\nwe can solve this...\r\n\r\n\r\nDANCEOFF!"
  created: '2006-05-27 18:55:37'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "jupiterboy - Love Robert Wyatt!\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-27 18:57:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I am fascinated by Taoism, but I'm not a Taoist. The impulse to improve the
    world that comes from the Jewish Prophets, and the spirit of innovation in modern
    science and technology--both of these I love and both are not in the rather passive
    spirit of Taoism. \r\n\r\nRobert Frost has a poem about a standing wave behind
    a rock in a river. And he says something like (but better) 'it is when we go against
    the current when we are most ourselves.'   "
  created: '2006-05-27 19:08:30'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "As another moderator:\r\n\r\nI've been guilty of not doing my job here ...
    perhaps. \r\n\r\nIf you find a topic boring, you don't need to say so. For instance,
    if Hrant starts going off about chirography I 've heard it before so I tune out.
    Because I personally think he is wrong but don't have daring to debate it with
    him. \r\n\r\nI think some people are always waiting to be insulted or shocked
    or offended. However, there IS another side to this coin. Some people cannot turn
    their volume down from 11 and do offend, shock and insult. Some people may have
    elephant skin, but other's do not. The human thing to do is keep this in mind
    and bridle your words before a moderator has to bridle them for you.\r\n\r\nThere
    are a few people that I will e-mail off-list as I do feel I need to say a few
    words to them, but I don't feel I should do this on-list. I do wish more people
    would do this. \r\n\r\nSome of the political discussions really  have bothered
    me. But, I want other people to be able to share their viewpoints. Sharing and
    discussing can be educational. However, when it becomes one person shoving their
    way down my throat I find my gag reflex kicks in and I have to leave.\r\n\r\nI
    wasn't shocked by Chris's comments. I heard his <em>voice</em>. I try desperately
    to hear what other's are saying too. This mode of communication leaves out so
    much of communication it is dangerous. Sure we have emoticons and can <strong>emphasize</strong>
    OUR <em>words</em> in a few different ways, but in the end it won't work unless
    you try to hear the humanity in the other person. I do understand that some of
    us actually know each other well enough to know if we like or dislike the person.
    BUT unless you've met the person face-to-face and had a conversation with them
    you WILL NEVER know if you like them or not 100% for sure. (If you get my meaning.)\r\n\r\nAs
    a moderator I need you to know I am completely against insulting others' politics,
    religion, sexual orientations ... etc. If you wish to explain where you stand
    and why, without being dogmatic and boring, this is something educational. But
    the second you start insulting someone else it has become personal, even if no
    name is used and there is insinuating! Personal attacks (names used or not) aren't
    to be tolerated.  \r\n\r\nWe have lost a valuable contributor. It was his right
    to leave. What was allowed to be posted will never happen again. \r\n\r\nIn the
    movie <em>You've Got Mail</em>, Meg Ryan's character wishes she could zing. In
    the moment she has the ability she regrets it. She realizes that have zinging
    Tom Hank's character, she hurts him. She saw him as this unfeeling monster. But,
    after she zinged him she saw his humanity. I wish more of us could do that. \r\n\r\nLife
    is too short. I'm here once and I want to make the most of it. I love Typophile
    and I hate that this discussion even has to take place. \r\n\r\nNext time you
    see an opening for a clever remark, think twice. Are you zinging someone? Is it
    necessary? If you think it is necessary, are you sure? Why? Even if you think
    you are sure and have a good reason, will it hurt someone? Think twice, edit thrice.
    Then post. Please don't make the moderator's have to censor you."
  created: '2006-05-27 19:34:02'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Miss Tiffany - First of all thanks for being a moderator.\r\n\r\nI am glad
    you stated your stance.\r\n\r\nParameters are beneficial to discourse.\r\n\r\npeace\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 20:02:32'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>In the movie You\u2019ve Got Mail, Meg Ryan\u2019s character wishes she
    could zing.</em>\r\n\r\nI used to wish I had a bazooka mounted on my car, but
    then I realized if that was allowed the streets would be empty.\r\n\r\nThis reference
    is too old for for many but there was a line from Fiddler on the Roof that stood
    out for me after decades:\r\n\r\nSomebody says \"An eye for an eye, and a tooth
    for a tooth!\"\r\n\r\nAnd some grandfatherly character says something like \"If
    we did that the whole world would be blind and toothless.\"\r\n\r\nIn a perfect
    world I imagine heated disagreements would be settled with a Dance-Off. I'd sure
    like to watch that. I bet we'd all be better dancers.\r\n: )"
  created: '2006-05-27 20:22:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I hate that this discussion even has to take place.\r\n\r\nWell, in a way
    yes.\r\nBut I was actually about the thank Patricia for starting it! So thanks.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I just realized that I'd missed a clump of posts.\r\nI hope that's not one of
    the reasons Redge left.\r\n\r\nFontplayer:\r\nIran: don't believe the hype (from
    either side).\r\n\r\n> the banter is extremely stilted\r\n\r\nI think much of
    that results merely from impatience.\r\nWe adopt and develop meanings for shorthands,
    and we\r\nneed to be reminded to fully elaborate on occasion.\r\n\r\n> even that
    which is stated as factual knowledge was and is\r\n> based on a series of subjective
    observations of this world.\r\n\r\nIndeed.\r\nSomewhere William recently tried
    to explain the difference\r\nbetween reality and opinion, and I don't think I
    ever replied\r\nto that: yes, reality exists, it's just that we can never really\r\ngrasp
    it - so everything does revert to opinion.\r\n\r\nThink of the Gorgias three.\r\n\r\n>
    Do you happen to know the name of the writer or the name of the book?\r\n\r\nI
    don't know of it myself, but I can\r\nfind out (if you ask again, since it\r\nseems
    you're gone now).\r\n\r\nSaroyan: I don't think he's generally considered \"too
    sentimental\",\r\nbut he is given short shrift by some because he only wrote in
    English.\r\nNot a very good reason, I know. But in effect his popularity is mostly\r\nrestricted
    to American-Armenians. On the other hand, he does have\r\na very famous quote
    about how Armenians are survivors, and that\r\nyou will find used very heavily
    all over the world.\r\n\r\n\"I should like to see any power of the world destroy
    this race, this small tribe of unimportant people, whose wars have all been fought
    and lost, whose structures have crumbled, literature is unread, music is unheard,
    and prayers are no more answered. Go ahead, destroy Armenia. See if you can do
    it. Send them into the desert without bread and water. Burn their homes and churches.
    Then see if they will not laugh, sing and pray again. For when two of them meet
    anywhere in the world, see if they will not create a new Armenia.\"\r\n\r\n> So
    we are talking 1915? Anything current?\r\n\r\nWell, it's still current because
    it hasn't been recognized yet (by Turkey, or its suggardaddy the US), and no reparations
    have been made. It's certainly more \"current\" (in the impotant way) than the
    Holocaust. Out of 8 million of us 5 million live outside Armenia (which today
    is a small morcel of our ancestral lands - I'm talking about 3 millennias worth)
    so you bet it's current. But it hasn't really stopped either: Turkey has a long-standing
    blockade of Armenia, in 1990 there were extensive pogroms in Baku, etc. And stuff
    like this happens:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/4907552.stm _\r\nNote
    that Safarov was a Partnership for Peace trainee...\r\nIt's a good thing they
    didn't send a violent one.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 20:30:22'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: That struggle doesn't get much press in relation to other things. What is
    at the root of it? Race? Religion? Land? All three?
  created: '2006-05-27 20:36:48'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "quote - yes, reality exists, it\u2019s just that we can never really grasp
    it - so everything does revert to opinion\r\n\r\nI call opinion agreed upon reality.\r\n\r\nEvery
    once in a while someone makes a microcosmic observation beyond the veil of agreed
    upon reality. Then if they have the ability to expound on that observation a new
    little universe is created. That's where great discoveries come from.\r\n\r\nWe
    can't see the big picture. But if we take out the microscope\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-27 20:46:50'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Paul, did anyone ever tell you you're a trip?\r\n; )"
  created: '2006-05-27 21:10:02'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Maybe on a trip\u2026 ;)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-27 21:17:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "> reality exists, it\u2019s just that we can never really\r\ngrasp it - so
    everything does revert to opinion.\r\n\r\nOk, all you who don't like to read philosophy
    stop here.\r\n\r\nThese are long standing arguments in philosophy. Here is my
    take on it, which follows my late teacher Karl Popper--you can read his 'Three
    views concerning human knowledge' in the book 'Conjectures and Refutations' if
    you are interested. \r\n\r\nWe cannot fully grasp reality, nor be sure where we
    have gone wrong. However we do indeed partially grasp reality, and that is a critically
    important fact. If we did not partly grasp reality we would have been eliminated
    by Darwinian selection--we would eat poison instead of nutritious food, walk off
    cliffs, etc. \r\n\r\nFurthermore, we can not only partly grasp reality, we can
    extend out knowledge of it, which is what science attempts to do, and it has given
    us immensely greater power over nature than we had before. Plentiful food and
    superior medicine are but two indications of this, which are blessings to all
    of us. \r\n\r\nIncidentally, like Einstein, Popper viewed science as a great spiritual
    adventure, and I agree. This is why I reject the anti-scientific and anti-technology
    statements of some on this forum. \r\n\r\nBut equally important in the field of
    politics, 'the death of reason gives birth to monsters'. The idea that we have
    a partial grip on reality, and we should try to make the political system responsive
    to it, is critical. It stands behind freedom of the press--surpressed by  practically
    all absolute rulers, and behind debate leading up to elections, which enable us
    to remove bad leaders without violence. Though this system works only poorly,
    it has proven far superior economically and morally to all autocratic systems.
    That we can sometimes grasp reality is the key premise of all liberal government.
    \ "
  created: '2006-05-27 21:47:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Fontplayer: just look up Panturkism.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 22:00:20'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "William - Philosophy might be the ultimate autocracy\u2026 :)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-27 22:46:03'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "\"That struggle doesn\u2019t get much press in relation to other things\"\r\n\r\nI
    think it depends on the kind of newspapers/sites you consume. There has been \"much\"
    talk about the new film being produced by the brothers Taviani about the Armenian
    genocide. I don't remember exactly where I read about it, probably the Corriere
    della Sera but maybe you could try to check out non-corporate media, www.fair.org,
    www.cursor.org, www.motherjones.com...just a suggestion. "
  created: '2006-05-28 03:42:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> freedom of the press\u2014surpressed by practically all absolute rulers\r\n\r\nYes,
    they can be pretty dumb. Much smarter is what's done in the West: have freedom
    of the press, but control the press. That way people don't realized they're being
    manipulated, sometimes even oppressed. The only opinions that reach the masses
    are the ones sanctioned (very carefully and cleverly) by the system. My views
    for example will <cite>never</cite> reach enough people - just you guys. Also,
    you're much less likely to take <cite>action</cite> when you can complain, even
    if you don't realize that almost nobody can hear you; you vent, then you go back
    to your pizza and football.\r\n\r\nIn the end, freedom of the press is just another
    tool of the system. It's actually worse than not having it! Because those who
    don't have it have a better chance of thinking independetly, seeing the real problems
    and changing their system in a <cite>meaningful</cite> way, as opposed to simply
    swapping out the puppet at the top of the stage.\r\n\r\nFor example, the reason
    that Fontplayer has heard far less about\r\nthe Armenian Genocide than Lore is
    due directly to the fact that\r\nthe US and Turkey are long-standing and strong
    geopolitical allies.\r\nIn the same way that you won't hear much coverage of the
    Holocaust\r\non Iranian TV (unlike over here where you basically can't escape
    it)\r\nyou hear barely a squeak about the Armenian Genocide in the US.\r\n\r\nFreedom
    of the Press? More like Freedom of the Brainwashing.\r\n\r\nAnd virtually every
    aspect of this society is rigged in this way.\r\nCompulsory public education for
    example is basically a way to:\r\nfree up both parents to work (read: become cogs)*;
    and start the\r\nbrainwashing as early as possible!\r\n\r\n* In fact this was
    stated explicitly as justification for the cost to the state when the idea was
    first introduced in the UK. The Brits once had a self-righteous brashness that
    they've now lost, for better or worse - probably due to becoming a henchman for
    the US.\r\n\r\nThe thing is, you can only make freedom of the press, public education,
    etc. work to make the system more stable if the system is at a certain stage,
    with a fully controlled media, etc. This is why despots fail so often: they're
    impatient.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-28 04:41:19'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Sometimes, far too often, I agree with Hrant.\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2006-05-28 05:09:34'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "\"For example, the reason that Fontplayer has heard far less about\r\nthe
    Armenian Genocide than Lore is due directly to the fact that\r\nthe US and Turkey
    are long-standing and strong geopolitical allies\".\r\n\r\nThis should not be
    an excuse. People have now access to all kind of sources of information and should
    be able to search information, compare opinions, read between the lines and learn
    to interpret articles. If you think that an issue is not being covered appropriately
    by the corporate media there are a number of organizations you can write to (
    yes, in the US too) and give your support. I wrote my little letter days ago and
    asked for the armenian issue to get more coverage. That was after I read the article
    about the Taviani brothers and the issue of Turkey having to recogize the genocide
    in order to be a member of the EU and all that this implies.You cannot afford
    to be a passive news consumer anymore, you need to get involved and participate.
    If there is a problem with corporate media , part of the problem is the way people
    consume the news. A philosopher was telling the other day he heard someone saying
    \"I'll be late because I am stuck in a car jam\" instead he should have said \"I'll
    be late because I am busy producing a car jam\"...I thought it was a good example.
    I've heard people talking about democracy here but there is a difference between
    representative democracy and participative democracy.\r\nI can't tell Dennis what
    he should read, I can only recommend some of the sources but then he will have
    to compare them and come to his own conclusion and learn how to dissect and deconstruct
    an article.\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2006-05-28 15:22:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But most people still watch a lot of TV, especially in the US.\r\nSo certain
    kinds of coverage reach <cite>them</cite> - much easier than\r\nhaving to go out
    and proactively find any information.\r\nThat said, the internet is indeed very
    beneficial to justice.\r\n\r\n> there are a number of organizations you can write
    to\r\n\r\nYes, via the ANCA*, which conducts email campaigns and fundraising,\r\nI
    try more than most (although frankly still not enough) and I'm\r\nhappy to report
    it does have an effect. But it's so tough to crack the\r\nstangle-hold on public
    coverage. Also, there are rich and powerful\r\nforces at play, such as the Turkish
    lobby in the US government, so\r\nit's not at all an open field that we can just
    run with the ball.\r\n\r\n* http://www.anca.org/\r\n\r\n> I wrote my little letter
    days ago ... Taviani brothers\r\n\r\nThat's highly appreciated.\r\nAnd the \"entertainment\"
    field can certainly play a huge role.\r\nIn the US, System of a Down does more
    than virtually anybody else.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-28 15:34:44'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>I can\u2019t tell Dennis what he should read,</em>\r\n\r\nSome news I
    have to come across casually. I don't need details to know the world is headed
    for unending calamity. And my belief is there is no stopping it. Man is so screwed
    up; Lies are substituted for truth.\r\n\r\nSo I'm not going to a lot of trouble
    to seek out stories of further calamity. I'd rather spend my time being creative.
    But since hrant intrigues me, I am interested in what motivates him, which is
    why I asked.\r\n\r\nMy outlook might seem like I'm burying my head in the sand,
    but I call it pragmatism. Not everyone can bear the weight of the world on their
    shoulders. I found out I am not one who can."
  created: '2006-05-28 15:43:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">have freedom of the press, but control the press. That way people don\u2019t
    realized they\u2019re being manipulated, sometimes even oppressed.\r\n\r\nAh,
    the old 'repressive tolerance' argument of Marcuse. I'm sorry but I have just
    despised that argument every since I heard it in the '60s. I think it is cheap,
    arrogant and phoney. Arrogant as it gives one who advocates it the excuse to dismiss
    anyone who disagrees with them with the broad brush that they are 'brainwashed'.
    Cheap and lazy because one never needs to look at inconvenient facts that seem
    to contradict one's own view. The person advocating the argument is also then
    permitted to spout woolly generalities and invective, like Marcuse. \r\n\r\nThe
    argument is phoney because it is flatly contracticted by the facts. Nowadays information
    is more available than ever, both on cable TV and the internet, as well as traditional
    sources, which compete with one another. The Nation and Fox News don't exactly
    report the same things. And on my cable TV, we receive news from all over the
    world, uncensored, in both the native languages and English. And my wife and I
    view many of them. And like many Americans living in the DC area we--especially
    she--has vast international experience, regularly talking with people from literally
    every corner of the world, often on topics of politics and economics. \r\n\r\nOn
    top of this long and diverse experience, I do read your views here, Hrant. I agree
    with about half of your views on typography, and almost none of your political
    views. Your view that my disagreements and those of many others here of all political
    stripes--is grounded in all of us being brainwashed, is insulting and lame. \r\n\r\nI
    am an American, and I am very well aware of the horrible and tragic slaughter
    of Armenians, not least because one of my oldest friends is of Armenian descent,
    and her family was tragically shattered by that slaughter, and is still affected
    today. And she is American also. \r\n\r\nAmericans are an extremely diverse group,
    with about 10% of the current population from abroad (including one hpp), and
    with a huge range of knowlege of the world, from very ignorant to deep and broad
    knowledge. Of all nations painting Americans today with a broad brush just doesn't
    work.  "
  created: '2006-05-28 16:17:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Screw Marcuse. I'm talking about what I've been seeing with my own eyes.\r\n\r\nArrogant?
    What's arrogant is imperialism\r\ndriven by your \"impulse to improve the world\".\r\n\r\n>
    The Nation and Fox News don\u2019t exactly report the same things.\r\n\r\nAnd
    they don't exactly have the same number of viewers either.\r\nPlus Fox News is
    winning. Your people prefer it. Worry about\r\ntheir black-white perception, not
    mine.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-28 16:27:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "> I\u2019ve been seeing with my own eyes.\r\n\r\nCorrection: What you are
    *interpreting* with your own brain. That you are interpreting, and may be wrong
    and others may be right is what is missing in your analysis. \r\n\r\n>Worry about
    their black-white perception, not mine.\r\n\r\nI am worried about both, but far
    more about their black-and-white perception, which I am convinced led to the election
    of Bush (the first time he wasn't elected). But is not a matter of being brainwashed,
    in my view. In my view is a matter of dysfunctional thinking in response to threat--exactly
    as Irving Janis described.   "
  created: '2006-05-28 16:33:48'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "quote - My outlook might seem like I\u2019m burying my head in the sand\r\n\r\nI
    like the sand. I grew up in the desert. Enthralling starkness.\r\n\r\nI prefer
    to get my information from literature, my friends and what I observe in the course
    of daily life\u2026\r\n\r\nI don't need the news to tell me that there is perpetual
    strife between the people of this world. It has always been so.\r\n\r\nIf I can
    improve how I treat the people around me I have stopped the chain of action/reaction.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-28 16:50:07'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "which bring us back to the main topic...how all this relate to the problem
    that originated this thread? Can we actually discuss politics without getting
    too personal? \r\n\r\nDennis says he prefers spending time being creative, which
    is cool, a part from the fact that if you make a living out of \"being creative\"
    you should also be interested in economics and you can't really separate economics
    from politics... in my opinion. Moreover, to do this job you need to be savvy.
    You need to know what goes on around you. Your work affects and influences people
    so you should be very careful how you use it. Nothing new here. \r\n\r\nPaul:
    literature...we ought to start a thread on that subject, shouldn't we? More relevant/interesting
    than the music issue really, I reckon."
  created: '2006-05-28 19:47:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Lore,\r\nGo ahead and start any new thread anytime.  You don't need a moderator
    to do it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-28 19:50:16'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>Can we actually discuss politics without getting too personal?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    have never seen it come to good, but that was in unmoderated groups consisting
    mostly of anonymous username identities.\r\n; )"
  created: '2006-05-29 01:17:50'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "\"And they don\u2019t exactly have the same number of viewers either.\r\nPlus
    Fox News is winning. Your people prefer it\"\r\n\r\nIt just occurred me that in
    order to have more productive discussions (on all subjects) maybe we should start
    introducing the healthy habit of citing sources or evidences. For instance Hrant
    should credit the source when he makes a statement. Just an example, ok? This
    will help keep our speculations and assumptions to a minimum and avoid misunderstandings.
    Don't need to exagerate but just give enough information so we can check the credibility
    of the source. Author, URL, date should be enough. If citing statistics (lies,
    damned lies and statistics) please mention who is behind those. \r\nWhat do you
    children think about it? Could this help improve the quality of our discussions?\r\n\r\n\"But
    is not a matter of being brainwashed, in my view\"\r\nTotally agree with William.\r\n\r\nChris,
    it's fine, I know I can post start a new topic but maybe there are already too
    many general discussions going on...maybe later.\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-29 02:07:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just because I don't spew out numbers and references doesn't\r\nmean I'm
    making stuff up. Mostly it means I have a healthy\r\ndisrespect for Western formalism.\r\n\r\nBut
    I'll do you a favor. Looking casually, for less than a minute:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/business/4695370.stm
    (right before \"Momentum\")\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/entertainment/4211395.stm
    (Ratings rating ratings!)\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/business/3148015.stm (and
    we all know what \"patriotic\" means...)\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/2959833.stm
    (\"The big winner\". But who is the real big loser?)\r\n\r\nBTW Lore, how much
    time have you spent in the US?\r\nBrazil and Italy (and even the UK) are very
    different.\r\nItalians for example should be admired for realizing\r\nthat they
    have a crappy system.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: T Bones
      picture: 111040
    body: '[Edit]'
    created: '2012-08-05 16:52:17'
  created: '2006-05-29 03:40:24'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: "Of course I haven't been following Typophile much recently largely because
    of the issue raised here. Maybe Hrant should start his own political blog, website
    or whatever, dealing with political issues only. It is relatively easy to find
    on-line publications of virtually every political persuasion, espousing a bewildering
    variety of points of view. How much of this topic here is really about type? Yes,
    type and design can and do often touch on many different kinds of issues, mostly
    economic, i.e., open type as a format to promote the fortunes of big companies.\r\n\r\nI
    love type, but I don't enjoy personal insults and I won't respond to them.\r\n\r\nJordan"
  created: '2006-05-29 14:50:38'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: please cool your boots, hrant.
  created: '2006-05-29 19:30:11'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: "GERALD LANGE wrote... When folks are passionate about an idea they will debate
    it. The list would hardly hold any interest if not. And there are some heavy-hitters
    here whose freely given information is invaluable.\r\n\r\nFor an alternative perspective
    go here\r\n\r\nhttp://blogs.msdn.com/fontblog/\r\n\r\nwhere absolute morons argue
    with each other about fonts and other stuff\r\n\r\n\r\nGerald can you elaborate?\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-30 16:14:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Maybe Hrant should start his own political blog\r\n\r\nBut of course William's
    political -and religious- opinions,\r\nbeing supportive of the establishment,
    are welcome any\r\ntime in any discussion.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nAlso, for the record:\r\nI'm
    not the one who initiates entirely non-typographic threads.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-30 17:46:10'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Mike: \"For an alternative perspective go here blogs.msdn.com/fontblog/\r\nwhere
    absolute morons argue with each other about fonts and other stuff\"\r\n\r\nThis
    may be entirely true, but some of those morons are us. And, we are talking about
    MS type, so we're MS type morons, thank you. If you read \"Where does 96 DPI come
    from in Windows?\", e.g. and all of the responses, you could also say, \"what
    morons are sticking to a 20 year-old response to Early Video Card and Display
    issues, rather than implementing a transparent, and scaleable 21st c. GUI?\"\r\n\r\nWe
    spoke of this issue in 2001-2 (Greg and I), and I begged for future MS OS to go
    straight on this issue, or at LEAST, offer the option of doing so. By straight,
    I mean report the pixels of the display and translate that into dpi based on the
    size of the screen. From there, maintain the 1 pt. = 1/72nd of an inch ratio,
    and let the user choose the point size they need from a range including tenths
    of a point. Does it matter if the user chooses a 12 pt that's 12 points? Yes.\r\n\r\nWhy?
    A. The approximate lengths of arms and distances from screens varies. B. the precise
    text size required by a user is a critical element in reading. C. \"Actual Size\"
    is important in some applications. D. if you'd done this from the first MS OS
    with TT, you'd have a fully scalable GUI by now, and would no longer have to worry
    about any of this.\r\n\r\nSeems reasonable, but NO WAY.\r\n\r\nNow, we have a
    situation, just on this little tiny \"Cornerstone Topic\", that's like a mirror
    saying \"objects may be larger or smaller than a reality without quantification,
    sorry, go figure it out for yourself\", and Users are saying \"how come ______
    ?\" So, passions are rising, even outside of this forum.\r\n\r\nType designers,
    on the other hand, have it easy. A 72 dpi monitor reports in at 95.999 dpi? so
    if a 10 pt is needed the font is 13.333 pixels? we round it to 13 and it becomes
    the 9.75! pt all users get when they ask for 10 pt. on windows? How big that actually
    is on the user's screen? we'll never know! but as long as the next larger and
    smaller sizes don't work as well as the default, well, we've done our job!? :)"
  created: '2006-05-30 19:47:38'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: '<strong>T-Bones, could you pulleeaze edit your end cite to look like this:
    /cite (within the brackets)</strong>'
  created: '2006-05-30 19:53:50'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>where absolute morons argue with each other about fonts and other stuff</em>\r\n\r\nno
    need to be insulting. this is the type of behavior we're trying to discourage
    here."
  created: '2006-05-30 20:05:27'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Wowie, look what happens when you're off the internet for a few days...\r\n\r\nFor
    the record what compelled me to start this thread was not the political discussions
    but the personal vendettas that seemed to be leaping from thread to thread. I'm
    not in favor of censorship, even of views I find offensive, but I was finding
    it hard to get to the content of some of the threads without wading through cheap
    potshots.\r\n\r\nMy ex-boyfriend and I had a system that worked for us for awhile.
    We had a code-word we used when one of us thought the other was getting nasty
    or inappropriate. Basically it was a way to keep our conversations on track and
    civil. I think it kept us from killing each other. Ideally it should be something
    silly, like \"sprocket\" or \"wombat\", that makes you smile even if your dander
    is up. Could of course be something typographic but I'm drawing a blank. I'm only
    throwing this out there as an idea because it would be something anyone could
    interject, not just a moderator."
  created: '2006-05-30 20:39:37'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "This board is a microcosm of the world - some strife is to be expected.\r\n\r\nI
    join Miss Tiffany and others in a plea for peace\u2026\r\n\r\nYes, I know I'm
    unrealistic.  :)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-30 20:42:11'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: I vote for "hasenpfeffer."
  created: '2006-05-30 20:51:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>cheap potshots</em>\r\n\r\nAs in \"...take it outside boys.\" ?\r\n\r\nWombat,
    Patty :-)"
  created: '2006-05-30 21:19:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Paul, whether I agree with Gerald on that or not, at least\r\nallow us to
    be insulting to things <cite>outside</cite> of Typophile!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-30 21:26:25'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i don't expect to be able to stop people from being insulting, but just wanted
    to go on the record that i don't approve.
  created: '2006-05-30 21:55:22'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: ">cheap potshots\r\n>As in \u201C\u2026take it outside boys.\u201D ?\r\n>Wombat,
    Patty :-)\r\n\r\nYou don't see Tiffany and I slinging mud at each other (much
    as you might like to)\r\n\r\nJust kidding..."
  created: '2006-05-30 22:13:27'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Stray thought (It's the kind I usually get): \r\n\r\nMiss Tiffany is a great
    name. At the next convention everyone should put that on their nametags for a
    surreal ambiance.\r\n: )\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-30 23:51:08'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Vendetta? Even worse is all the pointing fingers: it's him! It's not me!
    He started first! No he started first!\r\nI like wombat but are you sure it's
    not going to end up in tears anyway? Wombat! No YOU wombat! I said it first! Wombat
    yourself! "
  created: '2006-05-31 02:02:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Miss Tiffany is a great name. At the next convention everyone should
    put that on their nametags for a surreal ambiance.</em>\r\n\r\nAh, but Miss Tiffany
    is inimitable."
  created: '2006-05-31 02:24:18'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>Ah, but Miss Tiffany is inimitable.</em>\r\n\r\nGoes without saying.
    I see somehow part of my post got deleted which explained that I had seen a badge
    in Font Magazine from Fontshop (came with my membership) from a convention that
    said (see image):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/misstiff_3753.jpg]\r\n\r\nwill
    only add drama to her inimitable-ocity:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/misstiffany_3760.jpg]\r\n\r\nIt
    beats saying I am not Thomas Phinney, or Fred Goudy. But maybe that's just me.\r\n;
    )"
  created: '2006-05-31 03:10:45'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: BlackJack! Which I just recommended to someone on another thread.
  children:
  - author:
      name: fontplayer
      picture: 111445
    body: "I guess I should have said thanks.\r\n; )"
    created: '2006-05-31 04:36:26'
  created: '2006-05-31 04:30:37'
- author:
    name: DesignSlave
  body: "cool!\r\n\r\nCan you please list your favorite *FLAME* threads... I just
    ((LOVE)) reading those."
  created: '2006-05-31 21:37:18'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'favorite flame thread: <a href="http://typophile.com/node/20145">This Type
    is Hot!</a>'
  created: '2006-05-31 21:48:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!! Love it Paul!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-31 22:13:25'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I'm bumping this thread back to the top, having noticed it's exactly a year
    old. As Dav pointed out maybe it is the time of year.
  created: '2007-05-31 04:11:35'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: And it's almost a full moon again....
  created: '2007-05-31 04:13:27'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "We could update that old song...\r\n\r\n<em>A time to post, a time to flame...</em>\r\n\r\n;-)"
  created: '2007-05-31 04:20:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Interesting.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-31 04:22:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"And it\u2019s almost a full moon again\u2026.\"\r\nyep. And if you think
    about it, Cleartype was the \"perfect\" screen font solution, FontLab was the
    \"premier\" design tool for the professional, and ATypI was \"the place to go\"
    learn about it all. 12 moons later, however...CT turns out to be the perfect wysiwyg
    font solution, FontLab is unchanged, (shucks;) and ATypI is looking for its soul
    through the continued haze of misponsorship... so what's to argue about. :-)"
  created: '2007-05-31 12:21:57'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>...maybe it is the time of year.</cite>\r\n\r\nIs this what happens
    when the semester ends? Anyone who suddenly stopped teaching/taking classes suddenly
    has too much free time?"
  created: '2007-05-31 13:15:59'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>And it\u2019s almost a full moon again\u2026.</em>\r\n\r\nNot just
    a full moon, but it's a <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blue_moon\" target=\"new\">Blue
    Moon</a> rising tonite."
  created: '2007-05-31 16:06:48'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: 'No wonder: that explains a lot, Norbert!  ;-)'
  created: '2007-05-31 16:08:09'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Bless you, PattyFab for resurrecting this. I thought it was just me with
    this issue. I'll will post more later, but in the meantime, IMHO, some of the
    answers lie in the exasperating hubris, the humor police, the one-size-fits-all
    know-it-alls, those who post to see their name in a thread without saying anything,
    and those who start threads-within-a-thread without answering a poster's query.
    \r\n\r\nThese, for the time being:\r\n\r\n=====\r\n\r\nHow many forum members
    does it takes to change a light bulb? \r\n\r\n1 to change the light bulb and to
    post that the light bulb has been changed \r\n14 to share similar experiences
    of changing light bulbs and how the light bulb could have been changed differently
    \r\n7 to caution about the dangers of changing light bulbs \r\n1 to move it to
    the Lighting section \r\n2 to argue then move it to the Electricals section \r\n7
    to point out spelling/grammar errors in posts about changing light bulbs \r\n5
    to flame the spell checkers \r\n3 to correct spelling/grammar flames \r\n6 to
    argue over whether it's \"lightbulb\" or \"light bulb\" ... another 6 to condemn
    those 6 as stupid \r\n2 industry professionals to inform the group that the proper
    term is \"lamp\" \r\n15 know-it-alls who claim they were in the industry, and
    that \"light bulb\" is perfectly correct \r\n19 to post that this forum is not
    about light bulbs and to please take this discussion to a lightbulb forum \r\n11
    to defend the posting to this forum saying that we all use light bulbs and therefore
    the posts are relevant to this forum \r\n36 to debate which method of changing
    light bulbs is superior, where to buy the best light bulbs, what brand of light
    bulbs work best for this technique and what brands are faulty \r\n7 to post URL's
    where one can see examples of different light bulbs \r\n4 to post that the URL's
    were posted incorrectly and then post the corrected URL's \r\n3 to post about
    links they found from the URL's that are relevant to this group which makes light
    bulbs relevant to this group \r\n13 to link all posts to date, quote them in their
    entirety including all headers and signatures, and add \"Me too\" \r\n5 to post
    to the group that they will no longer post because they cannot handle the light
    bulb controversy \r\n4 to say \"didn't we go through this already a short time
    ago?\" \r\n13 to say \"do a Google search on light bulbs before posting questions
    about light bulbs\" \r\n1 forum lurker to respond to the original post 6 months
    from now and start it all over again. \r\n\r\n<http://snurl.com/a26v>\r\n\r\n=====\r\n\r\nThere
    was a kid who left the farm to go to a big city university. When he came back
    on spring break, he exclaimed \"I invented the universal solvent!\" Whereupon
    the parents responded in unison \"What do you keep it in?\"\r\n\r\n=====\r\n\r\nA
    scorpion and a frog were at the bank of a river. The scorpion asked the frog to
    carry it across. The frog refused, saying \"I will not, for you will sting me
    and I will die! The scorpion replied \" I will not, for if I did we would both
    be swept away and perish\". After considering this logic the frog agreed and the
    scorpion climbed on to the frogs back. As they approached the center of the river
    the scorpion stung the frog again, and again. As they began to sink the frog asked
    the scorpion \"why, oh why did you sting me, now we both will perish!!?\". The
    scorpion replied \"It's just my nature\". "
  created: '2007-05-31 18:14:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I've always loved the frog & scorpion story.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-31 18:19:36'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Why doesn't that surprise me? ;^)
  created: '2007-05-31 18:28:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "1 smart alec to post a metacommentary list on the social phenomenon of lightbulb
    changing forums.\r\n1 other smart alec to add him to the list. "
  created: '2007-05-31 20:36:52'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "One brainiac who has to tell more about lightbulbs than you'd think anyone
    ever wanted to know, including the history of filaments, pros & cons of all the
    glass characteristics, and analysis of the variations in the magnetic fields caused
    by different frequencies, as well as recounting the startling findings when using
    100 Hz bulbs. Then comparing the results to Thomas Edison's experiments with DC
    bulbs.\r\nEtc.\r\n\r\nOne or two more brainiacs to argue about technicalities
    in the analysis.\r\n\r\nOne poor naive soul who wonders \"Why can't we all just
    get along?\"\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 02:42:32'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: 2 pompous snots to prance about, trying to out-poser each other, and piss
    higher up a rope than the other, for at least a year, to be laughed at by others.
  created: '2007-06-01 05:22:31'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: and two to say, "that's not how eric gill would have done it..."
  created: '2007-06-01 05:32:33'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: Maybe we need a place for people to vent their aggression. Time for the battles
    to return? :) "That's it, man, let's take this into the ring! May the best egyptian
    blackletter win!"
  created: '2007-06-01 06:15:59'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: Oh, my mum can kick your Eqyptienne blackletter.
  created: '2007-06-01 06:20:13'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Our Anaheim Canadians can kick the butt of Canada's Canadians.
  created: '2007-06-01 06:25:00'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: Yes, that certainly appears so. (And my mum can still kick your blackletter.
    Mostly she likes Wedding Script, but lately she's been tending towards FF Brokenscript
    Rough).
  created: '2007-06-01 06:36:04'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: Hmmm... I actually have not experienced any fights, have had only friendly
    conversations up to now - well, except for Uli, of course :-) But I daresay that
    doesn't count :-)
  created: '2007-06-01 10:16:20'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Murphy\u2019s Law of Usenet News:\r\n<strong>No matter how neutral the topic,
    your message will offend someone.</strong>\r\n--Viruslist.com/Kaspersky Labs\r\n\r\nThen
    the <em>real</em> test starts: How do we respond if and when we're offended?\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 11:46:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> How do we respond if and when we\u2019re offended?\r\n\r\nIn a way that
    helps society.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 14:52:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Then the real test starts: How do we respond if and when we\u2019re offended?\r\n\r\nThat's
    an excellent question. The difficulty I have is a conflict that I haven't figured
    out the best way to resolve. \r\n\r\nOn one side of the difficulty is that I don't
    want to let false and defamatory statements go without being contradicted, at
    least here where I am a participant or a target. This 'answering' is the only
    check and balance there is on the internet, or at least on Typophile. \r\n\r\nThe
    other conflicting side of the difficulty is that some people like quarreling,
    or at least can't help themselves. If you respond in any detail to such people,
    they will just 'escalate', piling on more personal attacks, defamation, rubbish
    and irrelevant arguments, etc. And there is no end to it. \r\n\r\nPerhaps the
    best thing is just to contradict the defamatory statement, and leave it at that
    without going into detail, since any detail is fuel for the quarrelsome. At any
    rate, I'll try that in the future.\r\n\r\nA great thing about internet forums,
    or at least this one, is that they are the most democratic institutions we have
    at present. Miss Giggles and Jonathan Hoeffler have the same status--open to all.
    \r\n\r\nBut it comes with problems. One problem is a lot of posts that you may
    feel are a waste of time. That is easy to deal with--just don't post. But defamation
    is a more difficult problem, and it is a major one on the internet. It may be
    wisest just to let it fly, but I doubt it. "
  created: '2007-06-01 15:19:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> This \u2018answering\u2019 is the only check and balance there is on the
    internet\r\n\r\nUntrue.\r\nThat's a very literal, formalist, Western view.\r\n\r\n>
    they are the most democratic institutions we have at present.\r\n\r\nAlthough
    technically not incorrect, this is a confusing use of the term\r\n\"democratic\".
    In terms of governance (the usual association of the term)\r\nTypophile is run
    by a self-appointed few. And that's why it works against\r\nthe odds (referring
    to our heterogenous mix) and is so useful.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 15:41:16'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Maybe we need a place for people to vent their aggression\r\n\r\nPortable
    bathroom"
  created: '2007-06-01 18:07:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Trying to elaborate on what I wrote this morning, I've come to the view that
    the ideal member of Typophile is somebody who cares more about type than himself.
    But that being inhuman, the diluted version might be that a good member of Typophile
    is somebody who cares more about what people say about type than what they say
    about him. In trying to be like that, I honestly don't get very worked up when
    somebody calls me an anti-Semite or a clueless idiot; but as a rule I do very
    much get worked up when somebody says that a darker weight doesn't have to be
    tighter to work [as] well, or that Latinization is actually a good thing, or even
    something as esoteric as confounding the difference between display and text type.
    Ergo, try to care about things that other people care about: not you, but type.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-02 05:58:27'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Worse than that Hrant, I just spent half an hour reading through this crap.
    Typophile is becoming a futile exercise. Is there an informative thread out there
    tonight. Maybe, good luck finding it.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2007-06-02 06:16:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It is pretty futile isn't it. As Madeline would say:\r\n\"There's been entirely
    too much externalizing of emotion lately.\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-02 06:24:02'
date: '2006-05-25 05:45:05'
title: Why is everybody fighting AGAIN?

---
