---
author:
  name: Hannah
  picture: 111621
body: "Hey Everyone,\r\n\r\nI'm not sure how active this forum is? As a New Zealander
  I am currently doing major project, here is my central question:\r\n\r\nThe black-letter
  Fraktur was Germany\u2019s national choice of typeface style, however because it
  was terminated almost indefinitely by Hitler in WW2 I propose this question: can
  validity be restored to the typeface style, fraktur, which was defaced and became
  an index of inhumanity?\r\n\r\n\r\nHow does everyone see the reputation of blackletter
  today?\r\n- negative/positive etc\r\n\r\n\r\nWhat i'm really wondering is how can
  i start restoring validity? How can i design a typeface that is sensitive and honouring
  its history? One that moves people because of the context it is placed in. My original
  interest in blackletter was a link through from my empathy to the victims of WW2.
  Is their a way i can get that kind of empathy into the blackletter? Lots of questions
  - do i really want to get that empathy coming through (i.e.bringing back the past),
  like a memorial???\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Hannah
    picture: 111621
  body: "Here are some research process so far in exploring what treatment can help
    make blackletter modern (however these are majoritively from Hitler's influence,
    so not specifically this style for today) - exploration of positive negative space,
    heirarchy, text etc.\r\n\r\nBudget? Any thoughts?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/post-185-1147497555_thumb_3490.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/post-185-1147657131_thumb_6739.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/post-185-1147657142_thumb_6329.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/post-185-1147657154_thumb_5759.jpg]"
  created: '2006-05-27 07:18:49'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: 'You should pick up a copy of <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1568981252/104-2017687-9611129?v=glance&n=283155">Blackletter:
    Type and National Identity by Paul Shaw and Peter Bain</a> as I think it''d provide
    some answers to some of your questions.'
  created: '2006-05-27 09:01:41'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: "> Here are some research process so far in exploring what treatment can help
    make blackletter modern \r\n\r\nLook no further than <a href=\"http://www.underware.nl/site2/index.php3?id1=fakir&id2=overview\">Underware's
    Fakir!</a>\r\n\r\nBTW, what do you mean by validating? Are you trying to put an
    end to the association of blackletter to the Nazis and heavy metal?\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 09:08:21'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Blackletter of course has such a rich and varied history that the whole 1933\u20131941
    period is just a blip in its continuum. But most young Germans do not care. They
    seem to dislike blackletter, mostly because they want to distance themselves from
    the past, espcially the Nazi past. (Blackletter's hey-day, say 1450\u20131800,
    is not a period that modern Germans can associate with either. Almost nothing
    in their daily lives has anything to do with it. Blackletter was also highly tied
    up with Religion, especially the Protestant Reformation. As most young Germans
    are not religious, this is just one more strike against blackletter).\r\n\r\nFortunately,
    the world is much bigger! Even if the Germans never use blackletter again,* there
    are still plenty of other people left to like it.\r\n\r\nI think that the reason
    that Blackletter isn't seen so often anymore is because almost none of the blackletter
    fonts available for computer users today are optimized for smaller text sizes.
    Note that Underware's Fakir is a new, and brilliant, exception.\r\n\r\n\r\n* Even
    this will never happen. Museums, beer labels, and heavy metal bands will always
    be with us ;-)"
  created: '2006-05-27 12:41:17'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/device/wexford-oakley/\r\n\r\nAn example of
    a modern Blackletter, distinctly British rather than fraktur though. It seems
    to me that to try to produce a typeface that restores validity* <em>and</em> honours
    history is going to be difficult, but it would be interesting to see how you propose
    to go about it, even if you decide that a memorial is inappropriate or too difficult
    to achieve.\r\n*I would like to understand more your meaning\r\nTim\r\n<em> Museum,
    beer labels, and heavy metal bands will always be with us</em> Yay"
  created: '2006-05-27 14:29:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There was a very interesting Typophile weekly challenge involving blackletter
    a few months ago which several people contributed some quite intriguing examples.
    It may have been the first one.  I will do a search for it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-27 15:10:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I should have known that date since it was my birthday.  At any rate, here
    is the link:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/17366\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-27 15:13:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hannah, the question you ask is on the mind of many people these days.\r\nIn
    fact there has been extensive discussion of this topic on Typophile!\r\nMake sure
    to take a short vacation and use the search function.  ;-)\r\n\r\nHere's something
    small from me:\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_fraktur1.html\r\n\r\nAlso,
    you wonder how Germans view blackletter today.\r\nI think this is an important
    question, because they\r\nare (mostly) the \"owners\" of it (although certainly\r\nother
    people should, and do, make fonts in the style).\r\n\r\nMy impression is that
    it's still strongly negative\r\noverall, but there are cracks now visible (including\r\nin
    the German stigma over WWII as a whole) which\r\nwill probably eventually open
    up to reveal the light.\r\nPolitically, I think that the displeasure that many\r\nGermans
    feel towards contemporary Israeli behavior\r\nis helping this along, in an implicit
    way.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 15:38:26'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: You might also look into what Paul Renner had in mind for futura in this regard.
  created: '2006-05-27 17:52:34'
- author:
    name: Hannah
    picture: 111621
  body: "First of all...thanks everyone for the many replies!! I have had a good look
    around on the Typophile site and it is good to have that pool of information when
    it's not necessarily out in books everywhere.\r\n\r\n<em>Blackletter:Type and
    National Identity and Paul Renner's book</em> have been a great kick start for
    my research. They are full of good information. I have briefly compared Futura
    and Fraktur/blackletter/ww2 in an essay. However, as the tutor pointed out, I
    need to consider that these are on completely opposite poles. Futura was the extreme
    of modernism and fraktur at the other end.\r\n\r\n<em>Validating</em>\r\nThat
    is a good quesiton. My tutor actually asked me that the other day. Initially I
    am thinking that I want to bring a positive aspect to blackletter and something
    fresh compared to what it has taken on leading up to it's demise.\r\nPerhaps it
    is more modernity that I'm wanting to inject(contemporary not historically). I
    realise this has been talked on typophile already.\r\n\r\nThe idea of a readable
    blackletter applicable for text use today sounds affable.\r\n\r\n<em>Most young
    Germans do not care</em>\r\nYes, I do not know many Germans myself. Are any of
    you German? I spoke to a German student who is just in New Zealand for a short
    time. Here are his comments:\r\n\r\nblackletter in Germany is\r\n- very rarely
    seen, however...\r\n- it is used in some modern type books\r\n- playing with just
    the one single letterform\r\n- they use the knowledge that it is old type to play
    around with it and use it as something completely different to the modern\r\n-
    I think it is cool to bring it back to play around with but not as whole text
    (he must be one of the few who like??)\r\n- they always use the very traditional,
    never WW2 blackletter\r\n\r\nSo it appears from above it is more of a left field
    art in Germany??\r\n\r\nValidity is really what I need to crack down on.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: saidlechat
      picture: 111492
    body: "hi Hannah,\r\n\r\nyour theme sounds interesting, in fact I am doing my
      thesis about nearly the same thing. I want to find out if Blackletter has to
      be always in the corner of the Nazi-Beer-tradition-skateboard-punk-corner, or
      if it is possible to use it in a modern way. \r\nWhich I found strange is that
      the usage ranges from traditional conservative to alternative extremist. It's
      quite paradox.\r\n\r\nFor the use of those Naziblackletter fonts. For me it
      is not just that they are politically problematic, they are also of no estetic
      quality. They resemble the brutality and primitivity of this regime. So I wouldn't
      use them simply because they are one of the worst fonts ever.By the way I am
      german :) If you want I can share my research with you, as we are working the
      same field. I am also trying to focuse on how blackletter is seen outside Garmany
      as I feel we Germans are more delicate about those historical connotations than
      the rest of the world. Over all they are not german fonts they came from France,
      so they are really not ours..."
    created: '2006-05-30 11:41:19'
  created: '2006-05-28 04:22:28'
- author:
    name: Hannah
    picture: 111621
  body: "The idea of honouring the blackletter in accordance with its positive memories
    of the past is still something of interest to me. Then presenting these positive
    lights of blackletter in an inspiring way for designers to use (one idea could
    be like a handbook).\r\n\r\nWill post something more on this when I've thought
    about how I might apply this idea."
  created: '2006-05-28 04:40:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I forgot something:\r\nTo me the most effective way of re-validating blackletter
    would\r\nbe to make a text font, one that's subtle enough to go unnoticed\r\nby
    laymen readers. That way they have no chance of rejecting it!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-28 04:45:56'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "><em>Yes, I do not know many Germans myself. Are any of you German?</em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    I am just an American. I'm a graphic designer; I live in Germany, in the area
    around Frankfurt, and have been studying and then working here for a little over
    3 1/2 years. Blackletter has sort of been a hobby of mine for a while."
  created: '2006-05-28 10:21:16'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: "Hannah, how are you undertaking this research project? Is this going to be
    a full thesis or a dissertation supported by a body of work? This is such an interesting
    research topic with practical implications and, I think, requires a lot of time
    and effort/passion! ;^) \r\n\r\nI think Underware\u2019s Fakir could be a good
    example/or case study of a modernised and \u201Cvalidated\u201D blackletter but
    as it was released only recently, we haven\u2019t really seen if the text cuts
    are actually used in text sizes. I haven\u2019t seen what it looks like *in text*
    but it looks good, I ordered the <a href=\"http://www.isnotmagazine.org/takeaway.html\">type
    sampler</a> last week to see for myself.\r\n\r\n> * Even this will never happen.
    Museums, <cite>beer labels</cite>, and heavy metal bands will always be with us
    ;-)\r\n\r\nThis is \xBC of the reason why I prefer German and Belgian beer over
    many others."
  created: '2006-05-28 11:52:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Although I think there's no way Fakir can work\r\nfor more than a little
    bit of text, I very much\r\nagree that it does nicely help validate blackletter.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-28 12:02:19'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "At least they <em>tried</em> to make a text blackletter. Very noble, I think.
    And hats off! The whole project seems to have taken six years of work. Underware
    is three members, right? That is like 18 man years\u2026 (OK, I'm sure that this
    wasn't a full-time project, but still\u2026 wow).\r\n\r\n><em>it does nicely help
    validate blackletter.</em>\r\nIn terms of actual usage throughout the world, I
    suspect that Fakir will get mileage on the level that FF Brokenscript did. But
    it wouldn't become ubiquitous as Old English,* Fette Fraktur, or Wilhelm Klingspor
    Gotisch.\r\n\r\n* To be fair, Old English's basic design has been in relatively
    constant use since 1760\u2026"
  created: '2006-05-28 12:56:27'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "there are more and more young (german) people with a grafic background, who
    are interested in the richness of blackletter...\r\n\r\n>- very rarely seen, however\u2026\r\nrarely,
    but not very rarely.\r\nIn my neighbourhood (Germany/Stuttgart S\xFCd) is much
    more blackletter around, as in (Hi Dan) Germany/Wiesbaden ;).\r\nFraktur, Schwabacher,
    even S\xFCtterlin. OK, you won't find an advertisement for a new notebook set
    in Fraktur ;), but a lot old-style restaurants, streetnames set in fraktur, beer-labels,
    s.o.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-28 13:22:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Question:\r\nIs there more blackletter in former-East-Germany than former-West-Germany?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-28 13:34:28'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Yes, Thomas, but the problem with the use of blackletter is that it exclusively
    limited to historic, display applications. Like the town museum in Wiesbaden's
    suburb, Mainz-Kastel\u2026 Its sign (Heimatmuseum) is set in Fette Fraktur. Naturally
    withOUT the long-s ;-0\r\n\r\nAll of the modern street signs in Mainz's historic
    district are set in a Textura. And of course one sees blackletter all over old
    buildings. And on beer and wine labels. But these things are all old, and don't
    speak very well to younger generations.\r\n\r\nI do like how younger designers
    play with blackletter on posters and flyers. Yet I get a feeling that a lot of
    this is just because that sort of thing is done so much (more) in other countries.\r\n\r\nOf
    course lots of young German designers are interested in blackletters. But compared
    with younger designers in other countries, the proportion is smaller. Blackletter
    was all over 1990s graphic design in Florida. And London has more blackletter
    throughout the city (both old and new) than anywhere in Germany (although there
    it is textura/old-english instead of fraktur).\r\n\r\nEven Mexico, as is discussed
    elsewhere here, has more blackletter integration in the daily visual culture than
    Germany in 2006.\r\n\r\nIf I were to oversimply, I would say that Germany's visual
    culture, typographically speaking, is all about sans serif typefaces (AG, Helvetica,
    Univers, Frutiger, DIN, DIN again, DIN again and again, Meta, etc.)."
  created: '2006-05-28 13:42:58'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Hrant:\r\n><em>Is there more blackletter in former-East-Germany than former-West-Germany?</em>\r\n\r\nAlbert
    Kapr wrote that the DDR (East Germany) published far more books per year in Fraktur
    than the West did. But I have a feeling that there is more blackletter in the
    open environment in the West, as West Germany rebuilt more of its old building
    after the war than the East Germans did.\r\n\r\nKapr also wrote (in 1993) that
    young East German designers did not associate Fraktur with the Nazis at all. This
    may be because they were taught history differently. And/or they hadn't had as
    many war movies made in the East as West Germany (and Hollywood) made.\r\n\r\nNeo-Naziism
    is more prevalent now in the former East, however. They use a lot of blackletter,
    although they use a lot of heavy condensed sans serif type, too. Probably more
    than they use blackletter, even."
  created: '2006-05-28 13:47:11'
- author:
    name: Hannah
    picture: 111621
  body: "><em>Is this going to be a full thesis or a dissertation supported by a body
    of work?</em>\r\nIt's my fourth/final year. An honours year where we I think do
    a kind of visual thesis you could say. We do not have to write a big final essay.
    Though some other departments like Industrial do have to. We started research
    second half of last year. Have written essays etc. Now up to the stage where we
    start designing through the question we have formed from all our research. End
    of year we have an exhibition. I didn't know anything of this topic when coming
    into it. Yes, with our projects, they say, they end up being big topics with much
    more potential to go further. Therefore, I have considered a further year of study
    will be very beneficial. I still greatly value your imput, thanks.\r\n\r\nWhat
    initially captured me was that the political powers of WW2 enforced blackletter
    and then banned it from all printed ephemera (and this was only a typeface, but
    this helped show some of the extremity of the time). I have been passionate about
    blackletter through this background.\r\n\r\n><em>Bit of Ignorance</em>\r\nI'm
    glad you described to me a bit of what the German streets of blackletter look
    like. And some other countries.\r\n\r\n><em>The Interviewee</em>\r\nHe is from
    Bremen, if that is anything of interest."
  created: '2006-05-29 00:12:52'
- author:
    name: Hannah
    picture: 111621
  body: "Here is a small booklet - visual argument - which will give you an idea of
    where I was a month back...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cover_front_back_3900.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Inner_spread_1_5840.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Inner_spread_2_3748.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/inner_spread_3_5188.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/inner_spread_4_4483.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/inner_spread_5_3816.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/inner_spread_6_5276.jpg]"
  created: '2006-05-29 00:44:56'
- author:
    name: Hannah
    picture: 111621
  body: Just to let you know I am not going to use the style of WW2 blackletter above,
    as it is not appropriate to be used today.
  created: '2006-05-29 02:22:23'
- author:
    name: Stephan Kurz
    picture: 110847
  body: "I think the division of blackletter typefaces in \"WW I\" and \"WW II\" style
    is not appropriate as well. It was already pointed out that blackletter typefaces
    have a much longer history. Also, different fraktur/blackletter faces were used
    during the NS regime, not only Tannenberg and its fellow 'Schaftstiefelgrotesk's.
    \r\nThese are to a certain degree (and under ideologically alarming conditions)
    also trying to modernise blackletter. \r\nPolitical/ideological afflixion of typefaces
    is always a matter of context and of usage and reception in a certain (collective)
    disposition of perception. "
  created: '2006-05-29 15:03:21'
- author:
    name: Dave G
  body: "You probably have already, but if you haven't you should check out this related
    thread on Blackletter in Mexico beautiful work\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/17496"
  created: '2006-05-29 18:13:20'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "To expand the good posting of Stephan Kurz in another direction:\r\nEvery
    giraffe is a mammal, but not every mammal is a giraffe.\r\n\r\nRegards Thomas"
  created: '2006-05-29 20:27:15'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "In your post of the booklet on the WW2 outlines page is an interesting \xFC
    which made it through to Restore which, I think, has some mileage in it.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-05-30 12:16:35'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "I think blackletter is much more than a Nazi letterform. Of course its Nazi
    connotations are strong, but that is just a tiny bit of its history. Blackletter
    existed many centuries before Hitler and hopefully will survive many more after
    him.\r\n\r\nHanna, I would suggest you to look into the letterform itself. Check
    out the shapes, ornaments and strokes in the letterform. I believe there is where
    you could find the contemporary validation you are looking for.\r\nBlackletter
    has a delicate, precise anatomy. Is a very crafty and passionate letterform. Is
    a whole parallel universe to roman type!\r\n\r\nI suggest you to check out: Albrecht
    Durer\u2019s: Of the just shaping of letters.  \r\n"
  created: '2006-05-30 17:45:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm pretty sure Felix was talking about the substyle of blackletter that
    was used a lot by the Nazis - the so-called \"jackboot\" style. Otherwise I wouldn't
    have let his \"they are also of no estetic quality\" go without a strong counter.
    :-)  Although somebody might still muster a moderate counter even to that narrower
    claim.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-30 17:55:52'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Hannah,\r\n\r\nThere is a bunch of material that can help you make stronger
    links between blackletter and Sans or Antiqua forms. See the Renner biography
    by Burke, and also Renner's own book, \"Eine Jahresgabe der Typographischen Gesellschaft\".
    In it are many illustrations of his deliberate experiments to somehow synthesize
    blackletter and Antiqua forms. He approaches the idea several different ways,
    and manages to come up with several interesting developments. You might examine
    how elements of Blackletter can be incorporated or evolved to be relevant or functional
    in modern printing. There's also a wide continuum of forms between blackletter,
    Uncial and Antiqua that you could consider. "
  created: '2006-05-30 19:18:03'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: "yay! a good blackletter thread.\r\npersonally i really love blackletters
    of all kinds and shapes. as a jew who lived with the knowledge of the jewish holocaust
    (and lost a relative who was a victim of the german nazi\u2019s actions), i still
    love blackletters. but i also \u201Cfeel\u201D some blackletters as \u201Cdangerous\u201D,
    \u201Cbrutal\u201D, and \u201Cfrightening\u201D, and it allures me even more.\r\nwhat
    you intend to do is important, because it\u2019s you may bring this beautiful
    style to a rebirth, and clean it from the other connotations of \u201Cnazi,medieval,punk-rock,whatever\u201D.\r\n\r\nunfortunately,
    there are well known common feelings about the blackletters. however, as people
    said here - the black letter was the text face of culture and knowledge from the
    medieval age, and that cannot be ignore.\r\n\r\nsome of the blackletters faces
    scream \u201Ckill\u201D or violence when you see them. but i think that there
    is a way for inovation, mabe if you analyse the graphic language of the styles
    and try to avoide it, or at least be concious of it.. if a foreign designer who
    has never seen blackletters before will stumble upon them, he will probably note
    two things which are apart or together.\r\n1. sharp edges\r\n2. too much detailes\r\n3.
    high width contrast in the letters parts.\r\nnow i don\u2019t want to exagarate,
    (i might be totaly wrong because there is a big variety). these are some of the
    features and qualities that are not always there, but it sums up what i was seeing.
    i think that some of the fraktured letters look violent, or jumpy.\r\n\r\nin my
    opinion there are some readability problems. sometimes i see faces with german
    letters which are not so known to the non germans. other times i couldn\u2019t
    understand which letter is a certain capital.\r\n\r\ni agree with Hrant. i think
    that i havn\u2019t seen many existing digitised fonts that are good for long texts,
    because there is a strange readability streaming problem. that is to say - the
    reading is not easy and flowing. there is a cavity that needs to be filled with
    a good modest and simple yet elegant blackletter. one that doesn\u2019t scream,
    bite, or eat you, and who isn\u2019t too much detailed.. it could be a good start
    to develope.\r\n\r\n(im sorry if my english is a little hard to understand).\r\ncheers
    and good luck!!\r\nyaron\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: saidlechat
      picture: 111492
    body: "hrant: \r\n\r\nOf course I was only talking about those \"schaftstiefelgrotesk\"ones!\r\nI
      love blackletter fonts and what the Nazis did to them was sort of a violation.
      Never to forget that they also shamefully used the good old ones. Unfortunately
      present day Neonazis have no idea which fonts where used in Nazi times, so that
      you can see Old Schwabacher on those fascist's shirts, which makes the image
      of the blackletter even worse.\r\n\r\nYaronimus: \r\n\r\nThere are a lot of
      good and readable Blackletter, it's just they are not/ or not properly digitized
      yet. Take for example Unger Fraktur, a very light and gentle font.\r\nAlso I
      think it's a matter of custom to read those fonts.\r\nAnd to forget about some
      letters like the long-s (I know some of you might want to kill me for this,
      but the long-s is to forgotten to be reintroduced) or to sligthly adjust some
      of the Letters that are problematic like the small k, z or the x.\r\n\r\nFor
      a great selection of Styles you may want to see a recently released book (sorry
      only in German, but there's not too much text to read) named \"Fraktur mon amour\"
      editor is Verlag Hermann Schmidt.\r\nIt comes also with a cd with some free
      fonts.\r\nSadly the free ones are of the worst quality I ever saw. But at least
      it's free and there are some pretty rare ones on it."
    created: '2006-05-30 23:19:30'
  created: '2006-05-30 21:33:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Unfortunately present day Neonazis have no\r\n> idea which fonts where
    used in Nazi times\r\n\r\nEven more unfortunately, present day non-Neonazis\r\nhave
    no idea that blackletter does NOT equal Nazi.  :-/\r\n\r\nThe thing is, blackletter
    <cite>is</cite> very strongly (if not entirely) German, and the many people who
    equate -or at least strongly associate- Germans with Nazis* will have an especially
    hard time getting over blackletter's stigma. Not that these types of people generally
    <cite>want</cite> [us] to get over it to begin with.\r\n\r\n* Such as Sarah Silverman,
    who jokes that \"schadenfreude\"\r\nmeans \"Look, that Jew fell down\" in German.
    But of course\r\nsome people are allowed to be racist. In the US, they might\r\neven
    get applause if it's the right kind.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-30 23:47:51'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: "saidlechat\r\n\"And to forget about some letters like the long-s\"\r\n\r\nthat
    long S is a beautiful letter. so simple yet so elegant!\r\n\r\n\"named \u201CFraktur
    mon amour\u201D editor is Verlag Hermann Schmidt\"\r\n\r\nyea i've been drooling
    over that :)\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-31 01:28:07'
- author:
    name: saidlechat
    picture: 111492
  body: "Yaronimus:\r\n\r\nI totally aegree, I like the long-s too.\r\nI just wanted
    to say that if Blackletter is used in our days, especially outside Germany it
    will not be understood, so we (type addicts) know it should be there, but for
    the sake of understanding and readability we just don't use it. After all typography
    is to be read and understood and such letterforms don't help it anymore.\r\nOriginally
    the long-s served also to structure words better.\r\nYou can find it also in some
    Antiqua fonts, it was not a special Blackletter character. \r\nBut still long
    gone those times..."
  created: '2006-05-31 10:31:55'
- author:
    name: Tholan
  body: "On these logos you can still find the long s (taken from wikipedia)\r\n\r\nNewspapers:\r\nAftenposten
    [1] Logo Norwegische Zeitung \r\nAventurischer Bote (Begleitmagazin zu Rollenspiel)
    [2] \r\nBayerische Rundschau [3] \r\nBonner Rundschau \r\nCellesche Zeitung [4]
    \r\nDithmarscher Landeszeitung [5] \r\nD\xFCsseldorfer Nachrichten (Westdeutsche
    Zeitung -) \r\nGoslarsche Zeitung [6] \r\nIdsteiner Zeitung (Wiesbadener Tagblatt
    - Rhein Main Presse) \r\nHannoversche Allgemeine Zeitung [7] \r\nK\xF6lnische
    Rundschau [8] \r\nLeverkusener Anzeiger \r\nLippische Landes-Zeitung [9] \r\nMaschseebote
    (Mitteilungsblatt bei Hannover) \r\nM\xE4rkische Oderzeitung [10] \r\nM\xFCnsterl\xE4ndische
    Tageszeitung [11] \r\nNeue Rheinische Zeitung (Internetzeitung) [12] \r\nOberbergischer
    Anzeiger \r\nOberhessische Presse [13] \r\nOldenburgische Volkszeitung [14] \r\nOstfriesen-Zeitung
    [15] \r\nOstfriesischer Kurier \r\nSchw\xE4bische Zeitung [16] \r\nTraunsteiner
    Tagblatt [17] \r\nWestf\xE4lisches Volksblatt [18] \r\nWestf\xE4lische Nachrichten
    [19] \r\n\r\n\r\nProductnames with long s:\r\n\r\nDingslebener (End-s w\xE4re
    zu erwarten) [20] Brauerei \r\nEschweger Klosterbr\xE4u [21] \r\nF\xFCrstenberg
    [22] Brauerei \r\nGilden K\xF6lsch (inzwischen auf Rund-s umgestellt) [23] \r\nHasser\xF6der
    [24] Brauerei \r\nJ\xE4germeister (Kr\xE4uterlik\xF6r) \r\nKurf\xFCrsten K\xF6lsch
    (Bier) [25] \r\nMaximilian K\xF6lsch (Bier) [26] \r\nStaufenpost (Papierwaren)
    \r\nWarsteiner Brauerei \r\nMariacron (Weinbrand) \r\nM\xFCnchener Kindl (Enzian-Schnaps) "
  created: '2006-05-31 11:26:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> for the sake of understanding and readability we just don\u2019t use it.\r\n\r\nBut:\r\n1)
    Things change.\r\n2) We can help them change. (And maybe we even should.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Yaronimus-Maximus
      picture: 110981
    body: "imagine a children's blackletter book with all those german letters.  :)\r\nit's
      all a matter of education i guess."
    created: '2006-05-31 16:04:58'
  created: '2006-05-31 15:04:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey, that's actually a brilliant idea!\r\nChildren start with no prejudices.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-31 17:30:27'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: ">Children start with no prejudices.\r\nparents won't buy the book (in 2006)...\r\n\r\nIf
    the history of blackletter would be a part of education, there were  less klischees
    and beside the \"the good old times, heavy metal/punkrock/hiphop and nazifont\"
    something else. There was/is a total ignorance in the field of education, that
    leads to prejustices and dumb klischees (Same old story: Yesterday i saw a reportage
    in german TV about soccer-hooligans visualised with a blackletterfont...)\r\n\r\nAnd
    we surely need some new designed blackletter textfaces to check out what is possible.\r\n\r\nRegards "
  created: '2006-06-01 12:02:49'
- author:
    name: Hannah
    picture: 111621
  body: "Wow! All your comments guys are great, and a rich source information.\r\n\r\nYARONIMUS-MAXIMUS\r\nThanks
    heaps for your comments on blackletter. The notion of cleaning blackletter or
    bringing a positive light (away from the traditional, alternative subcultures,
    nazi's etc) is exactly what i'm wanting to do!\r\n\r\n\r\nQuestion (to all): Would
    you agree that blackletter has not been the same since WW2 and there after?\r\n\r\n\r\n(There
    is so much to comment on...I will gather my thoughts and post again)\r\n\r\n\r\nANOTHER
    Question (to all): What are your views specifically on the blackletter letterforms
    and their structure? Even if you love blackletter, is there anything that doesn't
    sit right for you in the modern context of today?"
  created: '2006-06-02 00:47:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In its richness, blackletter is against the\r\ndominant contemporary power:
    Modernism.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-02 02:08:43'
- author:
    name: Hannah
    picture: 111621
  body: Could that link back to how in Germany and other countries there is the immergence
    of typographers/designers who are experimenting with the blackletter form as something
    different to the typical of our contemporary culture - namely thinking of the
    contemporary sans serif.
  created: '2006-06-02 02:38:02'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: ">>Children start with no prejudices.\r\n>parents won\u2019t buy the book
    (in 2006)\u2026\r\n\r\nI'd buy it.\r\n\r\nI think Hrant's observations about the
    divergence of forms (on his website) helping recognition is what makes blackletter
    attractive. Or at least it makes me curious about what new ways type designers
    might look at it. And now his comment about modernism has got me thinking too."
  created: '2006-06-02 05:21:51'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "@Hannah\r\nHave a look at this \"blackletter\"/sans-experiment, what do you
    think about it?\r\nhttp://www.slanted.de/812\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-02 11:25:27'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://www.typetype.net/cat/hamburgotische.html\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typetype.net/cat/neutrum.html\r\n\r\nAnother
    post reminded me of Fontomas\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-06-02 18:41:44'
- author:
    name: Hannah
    picture: 111621
  body: ">poms\r\n\r\nThat is a very interesting and unique modernised blackletter.\r\nDefinitely
    here it has been used as a display font, but I can't tell if it has been used
    for the text titles?\r\nThey are kind of awkward shapes yet they still seem to
    work well together, perhaps because I'm not used to seeing this kind of display
    font. \r\nThe numbers I like the best. Their rounded edges remind me alot of the
    bauhaus below.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bauhaus_3480.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Brussel_02_5138.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    designer has taken the broken and angled characteristics of blackletter and made
    a feature out of them in this typeface. I really like the idea of doing it that
    way, makes it a bit simpler anyway. I wonder what inspired them?\r\n\r\nPlacing
    the blackletter with the pink (contemporary use of colour) also makes it more
    modern and friendly.\r\n\r\nThey are still quite quirky letterforms however, and
    perhaps that's something of blackletter that will always be seen when made today?
    Maybe?"
  created: '2006-06-04 03:54:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You just reminded me of a very interesting \"unintended\" blackletter that
    has made it into the mainstream: the Yellow font of the recently redesigned British
    telephone directories, by Jurgen Weltin - here's a sample:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Yellow_bn_5088.gif]\r\n\r\nHe
    incorporated those \"shears\" into the curves as a way to implement trapping stylishly,
    but until people (including myself and at least one other person) pointed it out
    he didn't realize that he was giving the font a blackletter feel! And it's quite
    interesting that Weltin is German...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-04 05:02:14'
- author:
    name: Hannah
    picture: 111621
  body: 'yes, that is really an abstract version of blackletter, perhaps its extreme. '
  created: '2006-06-04 07:56:57'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Palatino's letters (especially the lowercase n) have that shear in them.
    Its a chirographic trait.\r\n\r\nThe old metal Palatino S always felt a bit blackletter
    to me\u2026 the middle curve wasn't smooth them, but bumped back up before it
    rounded down."
  created: '2006-06-04 08:31:51'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: "those examples pwople have shown here, that's postmodernism in it's best.
    this thread surprises me more and more.\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-04 12:58:15'
- author:
    name: Hannah
    picture: 111621
  body: "From the 16th Century through till the end of World War Two, the German blackletter
    was Germany's national typeface. In the original creation of blackletter, the
    letter forms were a romantic symbolism of light over darkness; the heavenly and
    eternal presence.\r\n\r\n>Is it possible to restore the symbolic value of the
    blackletter?"
  created: '2006-06-05 02:54:42'
- author:
    name: cjg
    picture: 109899
  body: "I think there's movement towards acceptance of blackletter again, even if
    it occurs through its resemblance to fraktur faces. If you've been following so-called
    'urban' graphic and fashion design in the US and UK during the last year, it's
    en vogue to use intricate graphic silhouettes, often coupled with display type
    in fraktur and copy in a clean sans face. The visual cues between the illustrations
    and the type are frequently the angled 'cuts' and the high contrast you speak
    of. \r\n\r\nOf course, the prevalent style is closer to that you identified as
    contemporary to WW1, but the groundwork is being laid."
  created: '2006-06-05 05:25:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Its a chirographic trait.\r\n\r\nIt's an artefact of chirography, but it
    could be many other things too,\r\nand you don't need to be thinking chirographically
    in implementing it.\r\nThe same with many other things, like stroke contrast.
    Legato has it, but\r\ncertainly not because Evert was a fan of chirography - quite
    the opposite.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-05 19:53:29'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "@\"yellow\"\r\nI think the \"shears\" can enhance the formcontrast of the
    single letterform, maybe that's why J\xFCrgen Weltin did that here. And furthermore
    it can increase the \"dynamic impression\". Quite interesting example.\r\n\r\n\r\n
    \ "
  created: '2006-06-05 21:27:14'
- author:
    name: Hannah
    picture: 111621
  body: "Hey everyone,\r\nThis is a initial draft of a new 21st century blackletter.
    Inspired by helvetica and fette fraktur. The letterforms are not refined, but
    what feel do you get from the overall aesthetic of the typeface?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/draft_quartsize2_5518.png]"
  created: '2006-06-07 09:19:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think you should refine it a little bit more and put it in the crit section.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-07 16:18:11'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Hannah,\r\n\r\nI rediscovered Tim Ahrens' work, including this revival which
    may be of interest:\r\n\r\nhttp://justanotherfoundry.com/Lapture/index.htm\r\n\r\nRead
    the text on this page; there's some interesting theory, in additional to the very
    interesting results. "
  created: '2006-06-08 19:50:16'
- author:
    name: toad42
    picture: 112442
  body: "Carl,\r\n\r\nTim has revised his website, so your link doesn't work anymore.
    He broke up the one page into multiple pages. This is probably the best replacement
    link, since it contains the discussion and links to the images and other resources:\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://justanotherfoundry.com/lapture-about\">http://justanotherfoundry.com/lapture-about</a>\r\n\r\nI
    would love to see more detailed analysis of Lapture on Typophile. It is quite
    an interesting typeface, not only including an innovative letter structure but
    also pairing it with a flexible selection of cases, weights, and optical sizes."
  created: '2010-11-20 23:40:44'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: "Here is a new & ambitious \"modern blackletter\" from France, Adso by Bruno
    Bernard:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.batfoundry.com/journal__12_infos_prochaine-sortie-adso_54.html?lang=2\r\n\r\nand
    a portfolio (don't know why the url isn't active, just paste it in):\r\n\r\nhttp://www.behance.net/Gallery/Adso-(creation)/280966\r\n\r\nTo
    be marketed in a few days.\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-03 11:16:19'
- author:
    name: neverblink
    picture: 113022
  body: "Somehow that last design reminded me of a mono-line blackletter(ish) typeface
    I have seen on pottery. Next time I visit my grandmother I'll be sure to make
    a photo of it.\r\n\r\nAnyway, there is also Neue Konstrukteur, a modern grid-based
    design with hints of a blackletter\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/44748_3759.png]"
  created: '2010-12-03 16:19:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I would not say those examples look like blackletter.  More like a geometric
    sans limited to straight lines.  I have even done one of those myself a few yeas
    ago.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DezSansScript_6299.png]"
  created: '2010-12-03 16:33:08'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "Not sure if this was already discussed here, but Jason Mannix created a modern
    form of a Blackletter, with italics and small caps. An interesting endeavor. The
    typeface is called Enzian.\r\n\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/polygraph/enzian/"
  created: '2011-06-11 15:17:14'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "The genre of the [[http://typophile.com/node/12130|\u201CSchaftstiefelgrotesk\u201D]]
    has a new member, and I am curious how it will be received. As far as I know this
    genre combines black-letter with the design principles of sans serifs and were
    invented and used during the time of Nazi Germany. (At some point abandoned and
    forbidden though.) Therefore till today there is a strong ideological connotation.
    I wonder now if this typeface will evoke the same connotations or if the soft
    curves will leave a totally different impression:\r\n\r\nGermania One:\r\nhttp://www.google.com/webfonts/specimen/Germania+One"
  created: '2012-01-19 14:01:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm not German, but it looks OK to me (although it would've been\r\nbetter
    to avoid \"Jack\" - in reference to \"jackboot grotesque\").\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-19 14:23:29'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\n<cite>To me the most effective way of re-validating blackletter
    would\r\nbe to make a text font, one that's subtle enough to go unnoticed\r\nby
    laymen readers.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhile I am dubious about the prospects of blackletter,
    I highly agree with this. I suspect that such a type couldn't <em>really</em>
    be a blackletter, but I do think that at least non-Roman text/calligraphic type
    of some sort - such as rotunda - can and should be validated in this way.\r\n\r\nUltimately,
    there should be more basic models for readable types to work from as a starting
    point than simply Roman and sans-serif. (Clarendon, slab-serif, and Latin (wedge-serif),
    in my view, hardly count as departures from those two basic types, just as sub-types.)"
  created: '2012-01-19 19:12:05'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Like the jackboot grots (and I can see why they remind some folk of polished-stiff
    cavalry jackboots), Germania One looks to me to have most in common with textur.
    If there is such a phenom as an antiqua textur, this could be it.
  created: '2012-01-19 19:17:15'
date: '2006-05-27 06:52:17'
node_type: forum
title: The MODERN BLACKLETTER

---
