---
author:
  name: redge
body: "I've been trying to get my account on this site deleted, but I'm still shown
  as registered. \r\n\r\nDoes anyone know who I have to contact to arrange this?\r\n\r\nThanks. "
comments:
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: Why would you want your account deleted? The simple solution would be to stop
    visiting the site.
  children:
  - author:
      name: redge
    body: "Palatine,\r\n\r\nI simply asked what the procedure is, and in particular
      who I have to contact, to have my account cancelled. \r\n\r\nIt is dead easy
      for the administrators of the site to do this.\r\n\r\nI have no idea why I would
      have to give an explanation, but \r\none reason is that I don't want my e-mail
      address on the files of a site that I don't plan to use. \r\n\r\nSurely this
      can be arranged without getting into a debate about it. "
    created: '2006-05-28 23:16:20'
  created: '2006-05-28 23:04:20'
- author:
    name: C Swann
  body: 'This guy has gone weak from day one. '
  created: '2006-05-28 23:20:59'
- author:
    name: C Swann
  body: The guy is trying to have some good-natured fun with you!
  created: '2006-05-28 23:21:54'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Redge, its your and every users dam good right to cancel their membership
    and it should be an option to do it, without contacting any admin. But if I read
    \"of a site that I don\u2019t plan to use.\" and watch your record of questions...
    \r\n\r\nDo you really think you can use typophile without being noticed. :-)\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-29 00:27:19'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Redge, I'll see to it that you are erased on Tuesday if you really want to
    be erased. :^)
  created: '2006-05-29 00:29:02'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "Swann,\r\n\r\nA couple of months ago, I received an e-mail from a well-known
    American magazine explaining that their computer had been hacked and that information
    about tens of thousands of subscribers, including me, had \"gone missing\".\r\n\r\nHaving
    decided to discontinue my participation on this site, I just want to know what
    I have to do to arrange for the deletion of my account.  I have already modified
    some of it, but my e-mail address remains. I want to know (a) whether the administrators
    will delete my account and, if not, (b) whether I will be protected from a hack
    if I change my e-mail address to something erroneous. \r\n\r\nIf Palantine and
    you find this funny, that's your business.  You may find it less amusing if you
    receive an e-mail from typophile, or some other organisation, saying that information
    about you, which was supposed to be available only to the administrators, has
    been accessed by persons unknown. "
  created: '2006-05-29 00:41:48'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "I saw the posts from Andreas and Miss Tiffany after I posted the above. \r\n\r\nAndreas,
    I do not intend to use this site further and I think that getting into the reasons
    would not be useful.  You are right that it should be possible to cancel one's
    membership unilaterally, or at least via an e-mail to an identifiable contact,
    but apparently that is not the case. \r\n\r\nTiffany, yes, as I said on Friday
    both during a thread and in a note to a moderator, I want my account erased, and
    I would appreciate confirmation that it has been done. "
  created: '2006-05-29 00:48:22'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "I found nothing funny about this, nor did I intimate that I did. In fact,
    aside from the unfortunate circumstances surrounding your departure, redge, I
    remain noncommittal about this.\r\n\r\nTake care, redge."
  created: '2006-05-29 02:39:31'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "Palatine,\r\n\r\nApparently you are from Ontario, and I gather that Swann
    is from B.C., so here's the deal. \r\n\r\nWe're making a radio documentary in
    Newfoundland during the first week of August.  It has been commissioned and will
    be broadcast in North America on one of the satellite networks.\r\n\r\nAt the
    same time, we'll be doing large format (4x5) and  motion picture photography (super
    16) that is semi-related to what we are doing in Newfoundland and heavily related
    to a project that we are doing in New York.  The project includes a book, and
    may involve people in Newfoundland who make books by hand.\r\n\r\nThere's a lot
    of work to do, especially in the next eight weeks, and I've come to the conclusion
    that there are higher priorities than following the discussions on this site.\r\n\r\nRight
    now, on the typographic side, I'm concerned about film titles and what type we
    are going to use for the book.  I am currently involved in discussions about whether
    the designers of a particular type are going to expand the character set and,
    if so, at what cost.  These are not the only issues on a project like this. On
    the sound side alone, there are important decisions to make about what system
    we are going to use to record ambient sound in stereo (some systems are more mono
    compatible than others), and what gear we will need to do those recordings in
    places that can be quite windy/noisy, such as the Strait of Belle Isle and the
    top of Gros Morne.\r\n\r\nIf I am a bit surprised on the typographic side, it
    is in the product available from New York designers (most of it not all that interesting
    for my purposes) and difficulties trying to communicate with foundries in Vancouver
    and the Netherlands. These experiences have basically driven me to deal with a
    European company outside the Netherlands, although, as I mentioned, a deal depends
    on the time frame that they give me for the production of some additional characters.\r\n
    \r\nAnyway, I'm just busy with a lot of stuff. That's all. No disrespect."
  created: '2006-05-29 03:01:28'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "That sounds interesting, redge. I gather that the documentary will be a visual
    feast of sorts. \r\n\r\nThere are quite a few designers that post here, among
    them Johnathon Hoefler of famed Hoefler+Frere Jones (from new York, I think),
    as well as Nick Shinn of Shinntype, right here in Toronto. I think even Jean-Francois
    Porchez (jfp?) posted here a few days ago.  \r\n\r\nSo you might try starting
    your own thread about your project and perhaps get feedback firsthand from designers.
    Or have you done that already?"
  created: '2006-05-29 05:05:35'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "Palatine,\r\n\r\nAs I said, I want my account closed. \r\n\r\nOf Hoefler's
    work, the one type that interested me was Requiem, but as far as I know it is
    not available in bold face, which I need.\r\n\r\nThe Porchez faces that are available
    (not under exclusive contract) and potentially suitable strike me as very French.
    That isn't a criticism, it's just not what I'm looking for. I'm not sure whether
    this impression on my part is the result of having lived in Paris, where his work
    is fairly ubiquitous (including in my daily newspaper), or whether it is actually
    based on something inherent in his designs. That said, there is one type of his
    that is a possibility. \r\n\r\nFunny you mention Mr. Shinn.  I'd be very interested
    in seeing a character set by him for book text, but if such a thing exists, I
    was unable to find it on his web site.\r\n\r\nAs far as I can see, there aren't
    that many contemporary designs for book text with full character sets kicking
    around that are interesting, at least to my taste. "
  created: '2006-05-29 05:24:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Out of interest, if you look in again before Tiffany obliterates your account,
    what do you consider a 'full character set'? Or, to put it another way, what characters
    do you need that you are not finding in the fonts you have looked at?
  created: '2006-05-29 06:15:46'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "redge\r\n\r\nA long while back when I was making some transitions re software/hardware
    I asked the same question here and got pretty much the same response from the
    membership; no response from the moderators. Which I thought highly unusual. This
    should be an option readily at hand. One can unsubscribe from any list but Typophile
    it seems. Once you enter these gates. . .\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-05-29 08:59:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "An accurate reflection of the world of type!  ;-)\r\n\r\nBTW, when Redge
    is unsubbed, all his posts will disappear, right?\r\nBecause that's what happened
    to anonymous members when we\r\nmoved to the new Typophile, since they used to
    be allowed but\r\nthen had their Profiles removed.\r\n\r\nIf so, that would be
    a shame.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-29 14:52:28'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I'll second that. FontLab's forum on MSN Groups is frustrating for that reason.
    You'll be reading an older thread and every so often there will be a message that
    was deleted because a user's membership has expired. It can sometimes make the
    entire thread meaningless, especially when the following message is something
    like, "Thanks! That was the problem."
  created: '2006-05-29 15:10:35'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Or\r\nSmith: [poster's membership has expired]\r\nJones: Oh. My. God. Tell
    the Vatican first, <cite>then</cite> the Institute. I'm sorry Smith, but agoraphobia
    or no agoraphobia, the world MUST hear about this. Hang on, I'll be back in a
    moment, my pacemaker's playing up.\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-29 15:44:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That's valid, to become formally dissociated from what you consider dubious
    concerns, when in future (if not already) it will be possible to use search engines
    to see who is subscribing to what publications, or visiting which web sites.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, if you subscribe to a lot of anti-establishment rags, and want to throw
    the forces of fascism off the scent, it may be necessary to also subscribe to
    right-wing publications as well. \r\n\r\nIt's all about managing one's media profile.\r\n\r\n<em>...Mr.
    Shinn. I\u2019d be very interested in seeing a character set by him for book text,</em>\r\n\r\nOneleigh
    and Bodoni Egyptian have \"book-face\" proportions (ample extenders) and small
    caps/OSF, and have been used for book work. "
  created: '2006-05-29 16:17:02'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: I vote for no deletion of memberships. Sorry, Redge, but I don't follow your
    logic. Your personal information is probably all over the internet already anyway,
    in the hands of venues that have got to be less secure than this one, right?
  created: '2006-05-29 16:17:25'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nIt varies from type face to type face. Of the contemporary book
    text types that interested me, several were a no-go for one reason or another,
    whether lack of bold face, small caps, text figures, fractions, a couple of mathematial
    symbols that I need, etc. \r\n\r\nAnyway, I just received an e-mail from the firm
    that I've been dealing with. They can do the additional characters that I need
    in a very reasonable time, so the issue is academic at this point."
  created: '2006-05-29 16:22:52'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Is there a way to "hide" the e-mail address?
  created: '2006-05-29 16:41:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So Redge, is this thread a separatist enclave or something?  :-)\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I don't agree with Dan: a person should be able to leave for real, and not have
    any backtracks remaining. But his posts should stay - they should just be marked
    \"former member\" or something.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-30 00:30:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "How about if Redge's name would be removed from his posts and the text left?
    \ This would let the threads make sense but leave him out of ownership.  Perhaps
    replace his name with \"former Poster\" or something benign.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-30 02:08:49'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "I expect the owners of Typophile to follow through with the undertaking made
    by one of their moderators.\r\n\r\nAs Gerald Lang says, this is a normal request.
    I don't know what the significance is for prior posts, which would seem to be
    an issue about this site's sotware, and not something which is, or should be,
    my concern. As a practical matter, I have been involved in this site for two weeks,
    and don't recall saying anything, during that period, that is of more than momentary
    interest. \r\n\r\nAs for Dan Reynolds's comment, he is factually incorrect about
    the amount of information about me on the internet, and that is deliberate.\r\n\r\nI
    am amazed that some  people are suggesting that I don't have a right to unsubscribe
    from this organization, apparently on the basis that they may find it inconvenient.\r\n\r\nI
    sincerely hope that they are joking, and I fully expect the owners of this site
    to respect both my wishes and the undertaking that has been made to me. \r\n\r\nThanks.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-30 02:12:14'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Is there a way to \u201Chide\u201D the e-mail address?</em>\r\n\r\ngo
    to my account > edit > contact setting and uncheck the \"Personal contact form\"
    checkbox."
  created: '2006-05-30 02:14:49'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "I am talking about unsubscribing from this site, not hiding an e-mail address.
    \r\n\r\nI expect Typophile to follow through on the undertaking of its moderator
    to erase my account. \r\n\r\nIf you all want to have a debate about this, and
    decide to post a warning to potential participants that they they will be prohibited
    from unsubscribing, that's fine.\r\n\r\nThis is called basic transparency.  \r\n\r\nIf
    I had seen such a warning, believe me, I would not have registered.  \r\n\r\nI
    expect my account to be erased, as I have been told it will be, tomorrow. \r\n\r\nThanks. "
  created: '2006-05-30 02:26:56'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "A nice thing about your own domain is if someone hacks into the system and
    gets my e-mail address (dopeyhead@fp.com) I delete it and make a new one (chowderhead@fp.com).
    There's a million more where those came from. I wonder if there is a limit to
    the number of characters...a cool one would be dummerthanasackfulofhammers@fp.com.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    you never have to register to sites with a regular account. When they start getting
    too much spam, it takes about two minutes to fix."
  created: '2006-05-30 03:03:08'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "Fontplayer,\r\n\r\nIn my case, changing the e-mail address that I used to
    register on this site is a major hassle. If the owners do a search on that address,
    after the @ sign, and put www before it, they may realize why.  I work within
    an organisation, and we use a particular e-mail address format. I have had the
    same e-mail address for about ten years, and changing it is not a unilateral decision.\r\n\r\nIf
    you are encouraging people to register through throw-away accounts, such as yahoo,
    etc., I can tell you that there are a lot of people who won't take an e-mail from
    such an account seriously. They want to communicate through the real account.\r\n\r\nWhen
    I registered on this site I used a real account, and not one I can easily change.
    Someone who wants to send the message that using a real account on this site is
    a bad idea should perhaps think a bit about what they are saying.\r\n\r\nI will
    admit that once my account on this site is erased, in accordance with the undertaking
    that has been given to me, I will never again use my long-term e-mail address
    to register on a site unless I know, for certain, that I'm not going to wind up
    in a debate like this. I am truly floored. "
  created: '2006-05-30 03:25:14'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>if you are encouraging people to register through throw-away accounts,
    such as yahoo, etc.</em>\r\n\r\nwww.globat.com has a temporary deal right now
    of $1.99 a month for:\r\n\r\n-3.5 Terabytes of Bandwidth\r\n-25 GB Hosting Space\r\n-Unlimited
    Emails \r\n-24/7 Toll-Free Phone Customer Support\r\n\r\nAnd I think also your
    domain registration. For that price, it's worth getting a domain just for the
    e-mails. And is taken more seriously than yahoo, etc.\r\n\r\nPersonally I stopped
    trying to get people to take me seriously long ago. How can I expect them to when
    I can't do it myself.\r\n; )\r\n\r\nJust a thought...\r\n   \r\n "
  created: '2006-05-30 03:39:00'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "Fontplayer,\r\n\r\nThis morning I received an instant message, or whatever
    it is called on this site, from a Typophile member. It had to do with his designs,
    in which I happen to be interested. \r\n\r\nI chose to respond by e-mail rather
    than by instant message. Why?  Because I know that he is legit and I wanted him
    to know that I am.\r\n\r\nThat just makes life easier, although I will be the
    first to admit that $1.99 per month, with the ability to change who you are at
    will, is for some people attractive. \r\n\r\nI just don't want to go there, and
    I also don't want to be penalised for that. \r\n\r\nSo I'd really appreciate it
    if the owners of Typophile would just do what their moderator agreed to do. \r\n\r\nIf
    people want to turn this into a major policy debate for this site, that's fine,
    I'd just as soon that it not be done on my dime. "
  created: '2006-05-30 04:02:12'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "If you have your own domain, it is about as legit as it gets. I was just
    trying to help with future things of this sort. If nothing else, I bet someone
    here jumps on that offer. \r\n\r\nYou sound afraid the moderators are out to get
    you or something. I got to thinking about this and wondered if it might be harder
    than one would think. Your identity is tied to some threads, which may mean they
    will simply have to delete the personal info.\r\n\r\nBut in any case, you can
    go in and change anything, including your e-mail address."
  created: '2006-05-30 04:15:31'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "\"This morning I received an instant message, or whatever it is called on
    this site, from a Typophile member. It had to do with his designs, in which I
    happen to be interested.\"\r\n\r\nAt least some good came of all this. \r\n\r\nSorry
    to see you go, redge."
  created: '2006-05-30 05:14:06'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I never said that I'd remove his comments.  I agree that removing his comments
    is wrong. If that appears to be what I said, I apologize. I will discuss this
    tomorrow with the \"higher powers\". One way to disappear is to stop posting.
    \r\n\r\nEdit: OK. So I re-read what I initially wrote and maybe I did say that.
    Heat of the moment. "
  created: '2006-05-30 06:02:10'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "It would screw up continuity to delete the posts, but almost the same effect
    could be achieved by editing the posts, which he can do himself if they bother
    him (but maybe not of his account is gone). And I see his personal info is already
    gone.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I didn't read your comment as a promise to erase the threads."
  created: '2006-05-30 06:16:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I expect Typophile to follow through on the\r\n> undertaking of its moderator
    to erase my account.\r\n\r\nYou mean right in the middle of your posting activity?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-30 17:03:05'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I think we'll call this one resolved.
  created: '2006-05-30 17:42:54'
date: '2006-05-28 22:54:38'
title: How do I get my account deleted?

---
