---
author:
  name: twardoch
  picture: 110427
body: "Microsoft published a public beta version of their new Office 2007 suite for
  Windows.\r\n\r\nOne interesting point is that Office 2007 includes all the OpenType
  fonts from the Microsoft ClearType collection (http://www.microsoft.com/resources/design/ClearType.html
  ):  Calibri, Cambria, Candara, Consolas, Constantia, Corbel, as well as Segoe UI,
  Microsoft's new user interface font that was disputed to be a Frutiger rip-off.
  All the fonts include Latin, Cyrillic and Greek characters with advanced typographic
  OpenType features, some include characters from additional scripts.\r\n\r\nOne highlight
  of Office 2007 is the new math typesetting engine in Word. It consists of the Cambria
  font that has a large mathematical character set, and a fully new \"equation editor\"
  which is seamlessly integrated into new Office applications and allows mathematical
  input using various text encoding schemes, including a syntax very similar to TeX
  as well as MathML.\r\n\r\nThe current beta version of Office 2007 will run until
  February 2007 and is available free of charge to anyone interested:\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/office/preview/default.mspx\r\n\r\n(The
  download is rather large though, at least 450 MB).\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: (BTW, unfortunately, the actual support for OpenType Layout features in Word
    2007 does not seem to be much different from that of Word 2003.)
  created: '2006-05-29 19:45:23'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "from Adam's email to the OpenType list: \"Unfortunately, neither Word nor
    PowerPoint 2007 seem to be actually using any of the user-controlled OpenType
    features included in these fonts (such as smcp, onum, ss01, hist , dlig, swsh
    etc.). For example, \"small caps\" in Word 2007 still produces fake small caps.
    I guess this means that we won't see support for user-controlled OpenType Layout
    features in Office within the next four-five years or so, which is a pity.\"\r\n\r\nMore
    than a pity, but what can you do? I guess Microsoft thinks they can do whatever
    they want when they want. It'd be great if one of the freesource office packages
    would implement OT layout feature support before they got it into Word and then
    caught on with the public. Ah well, i can dream, can't i?"
  created: '2006-05-29 22:28:26'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> I guess Microsoft thinks they can do \r\n> whatever they want when they
    want.\r\n\r\nNo, I don't think it's that. This version of Office really has very
    dramatic changes in handling graphics, the user interface, interoperability between
    the applications, and the file format. I guess there was not enough power and
    time left for them to deal with typography on top of that. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-30 09:53:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Typography, the last frontier. :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-30 13:59:36'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: I understand that the package consists of a number of programs, as usual,
    but do I understand correctly that the surmise is that they released a text editing
    program and there wasn't time to deal with typography ? While a picture is worth
    a thousand words, I still feel that text is the medium, and the main focus of
    their office packages, that passes the imformation to the reciprient. More time
    should have been given to this area even before a beta was released. Of course
    the mathematical equation editor will more than adequately compensate for poor
    type handling.
  created: '2006-05-30 14:24:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Graham makes a good point. Microsoft Word is a WORD processor not a picture
    processor.  Microsoft says it is comitted to multilingual support and Opentype
    support is a big help in that area. Seems like priorities got a bit mixed up there.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-30 14:31:29'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "Ahh, I got it. We live in the digital age, and so we must type our documents
    in digits, thats what the equation editor must be for. Gee, those microsoft boys
    and girls are quick, they realise the redundancy of type is near at hand.\r\n\r\nI
    give it my vote of confidance, with my new voting style, two digits up.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-30 14:40:37'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "What I\u2019m concerned with is that kerning is still disabled by default
    in Word 2007. That\u2019s absurd. \r\n\r\nI definitely agree that improvement
    in text handling should have been the main focus of Word. Since the file format
    is changing and many other things are happening, it would have been a good chance
    to revamp the typographic support. With all those changes, issues of document
    reflow would have been acceptable, I think. Of course, Word does support OpenType
    Layout in principle. The Arabic/Indic stuff, composition/decomposition and the
    math stuff all works using OpenType Layout. But we\u2019d appreciate support at
    least for contextual alternates, standard ligatures, small caps, superscripts/subscripts
    and perhaps alternate figure styles. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-30 14:44:45'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: Adam, you obviously have seen, and used the program, Seriously, is it really
    much improved and user friendly than earlier versions, even with the obvious shortcomings
    ? Is the promise there of making it worthwhile updating by the general and average
    user ? Or have they done what they have been guilty of before by just shoving
    extra features in a current package, creating more headaches to those who buy
    the product with the unending patches and fixes.
  created: '2006-05-30 14:52:30'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>No, I don\u2019t think it\u2019s that...</em>\r\n\r\nhmmm... I guess
    i should have looked at the new applications first. I'm just baffled by the seeming
    diconnect where Microsoft pays big $$$ to develop feature-rich OT ClearType fonts,
    and then does nothing to implement layout feature support in their basic applications
    (MS Office). I guess I'm disappointed, because it is my belief that OT will not
    really catch on with the general public until they have a chance to see what it
    can do for THEM. For a majority of PC users, this means that standard programs
    (such as Office) must support the layout features. I guess we have to wait 2-3
    more years to get the word out about what <em>we</em>'ve been doing now for several
    now."
  created: '2006-05-30 15:12:00'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>I\u2019m just baffled ...</cite>\r\n\r\nThe discrepancy of fonts that
    offer OT features and applications that ignore them is really astonishing. I also
    agree on the second point -- OpenType will have its breakthrough not before Windows
    & Office applications make it available to literally everybody. Apple's own OpenType
    support in OSX 10.4 is rather infant too, no contextual substitution. And unless
    at least the major system and application developers offer text engines which
    give same results, and more consistent user interfaces to access typographic features,
    OpenType will remain a toy of a few nerds.\r\n\r\nMy Office 2007 download refuses
    to install, and I was so curious to see the fonts ...&nbsp;&nbsp;:("
  created: '2006-05-30 16:21:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>OpenType will have its breakthrough not before Windows & Office applications
    make it available to literally everybody.</em>\r\n\r\nMicrosoft isn't the only
    game in town.\r\nMyfonts reaches a broader market than the design industry (such
    clear-cut disctinctions are becoming obsolete, anyway), and its marketing sophistication
    is growing. Now indie foundries can launch new fonts there, advertise them on
    \"posters\", with time-limited special offers, and hype OpenType features as product
    benefits, and it's already worked for at least one typeface. The missing link
    here is an adequate interactive online \"type tester\" which shows the different
    OT features that a font may have; once that is in place at online font distributors,
    then we will see a real breakthrough. "
  created: '2006-05-30 16:48:25'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Hi Nick! I think the decision of acceptance or non-acceptance of OpenType
    is made by systems and applications, not by fonts. As long as only a handful of
    special interest apps (Creative Suite, XPress, Mellel)* give access to typographic
    features, a font tester could be helpful but would have the taste of a test tube.
    However, if applications would show these options in their interfaces, one could
    try them in documents one creates anyway, and maybe find them be USEFUL. And finally
    ask how it comes that some fonts DON'T have these features.\r\nSo, I appreciate
    a lot that Microsoft added typographic features to ClearType fonts, and find it
    the more disappointing that they \"hide\" them in their own applications.\r\n\r\n*
    Yesterday I wanted to add Apple's OSX 10.4 apps to the list but then recognized
    some serious shortcomings. One would have to explain for every single feature:
    this works, this doesn't. Then better not mention them at all ..."
  created: '2006-05-30 17:56:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hi Karsten.\r\nThe distinction is between a dominant corporation, Microsoft,
    not pushing the use of OpenType's \"typographic\" features, and the market, using
    OT-supporting Adobe applications (and now Quark), pulling it. \r\nEven though
    Adobe doesn't mention type on its home page, its applications which support OT
    features are used by millions of people -- many of whom are not professional designers.\r\n\r\nThe
    way I understand it (from a MS video documantary), Bill Gates' support of funding
    for the ClearType project was predicated on the type making a difference (or some
    such words), ie something that could be measured. Hence the readability claims
    of 5% faster for CT. The multi-language support of CT is a no-brainer for a multi-national
    corporation. The 'typographic\" features of CT -- now how would they be justified
    to engineering and marketing criteria? It seems they were snuck in. Perhaps the
    rationale was keeping pace with Adobe. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: tomdonahue
    body: ">The multi-language support of CT is a no-brainer for\r\n>a multi-national
      corporation. The \"typographic\" features\r\n>of CT \u2014 now how would they
      be justified to engineering\r\n>and marketing criteria?\r\n\r\nAs a translator
      and editor who has seen thousands of Word files\r\nover the years, I have to
      agree. Not once have I seen small caps,\r\nfaux or otherwise. Demand for this
      feature among Word\r\nusers must be almost zero.\r\n"
    created: '2006-05-31 15:08:02'
  created: '2006-05-30 20:03:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Except Adobe doesn't make screenfonts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-30 21:31:34'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "What are the version numbers of \"your\" fonts?\r\n\r\nI got this Office
    Beta from a german computer magazine, and the package contains:\r\n- the 6 new
    C-fonts (Cambria, Calibri, etc.) in version 0.95\r\n- Segoe UI in version 0.97\r\n\r\nsebastian"
  created: '2006-05-30 22:53:48'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Seriously, is it really much improved and user \r\n> friendly than earlier
    versions, even with the \r\n> obvious shortcomings?\r\n\r\nI think it's at least
    interesting. I had to do some looking around in the new UI of Word to find what
    I wanted but once that is done, I believe the new UI is more productive. They
    have done good work, especially the live preview stuff is very impressive (you
    hover the mouse over the font size or name and the entire layout of the page changes
    to show you what it will look like, same for table styles etc.). Excel's new charting
    features and table auto-formatting is also very pleasant. They have actually hired
    designers to do it this time. I'm not entirely fond of the new graphic treatment
    of the UI but I think I'll get used to it. It's better than the cheesy Windows
    XP user interface. \r\n\r\nOn the other hand, I've seen where the Windows Vista
    UI is heading and it's a nightmare. Not only it's completely different from Office
    2007, it's also an overcomplicated mess. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-31 15:05:13'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Not only it\u2019s completely different from Office 2007, it\u2019s also
    an overcomplicated mess.</em>\r\n\r\nso it's gone to AO-Hell, eh? too user-friendly
    for its own good?"
  created: '2006-05-31 15:11:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Smallcaps (especially real ones) are indeed almost never used.\r\nSad but
    true - so something we should wake up to and design/price accordingly.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-31 15:13:43'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>so something we should wake up to and design/price accordingly.</em>\r\n\r\n???"
  created: '2006-05-31 15:16:04'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Smallcaps (especially real ones) are indeed almost never used.</em>\r\nI
    think that Roman Small Caps fonts should replace Bold Italic fonts across the
    board. >^p"
  created: '2006-05-31 15:18:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Smallcaps (especially real ones) are indeed almost never used.\r\n\r\nIt
    is my impression that small caps a still often used in display, eg on book covers.
    I think they are a very valuable option for the designer. What are others' impression
    of how often small caps are used?  \r\n\r\n>Demand for this feature among Word\r\nusers
    must be almost zero.\r\n\r\nThe way word is set up--with easy short cuts for italic,
    bold, but not small caps--discourages their use. Also that they are quite often
    fake (are they always?), and don't look so great would further discourage their
    use. If they were good and easily accessible, they might be used often for display,
    at the very least, by Word users.   "
  created: '2006-05-31 15:36:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Small caps are rarely used in Word because they are either not available
    or buried. Small caps are used by the publishing/design community on page layout
    apps.  A few years back pictures were not available in word processors either.
    \ The developers did not add them because their data showeed that users used them
    already, they did it to offer a feature which was new to the program.  If you
    build it, they will come. Today word files are riddled with a bonanza of clip
    art and other visual splendors.  I wish they would add a new feature to Word files
    called \"DeCrappify\" which would delete all the visual kaka and plain vanilla
    the formatting but keep italics and bolds. Adding small caps and OSF would actually
    help editors communicate with designers though and actually make work flow easier.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-31 15:42:12'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: 'william berkson: my own impression is that SC get very rarely used in switzerland,
    even in comparsion with use in the anglosaxian countries.'
  created: '2006-05-31 15:47:15'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/word2007dash_pdh_4561.png]\r\n\r\nHere's
    a screenshot of the Word 2007 default dashboard. As you can see, you can get Bold,
    italic, strikethrough, superiors, inferiors, change case all from easy to access
    buttons (albeit faux formatting in some cases). There should be a smallcaps and
    and all caps button right there. As it is, you have to click on the tiny link
    on the font menu to access these formatting options and in the case of smallcaps,
    these are faux smallcaps. I think if we gave easier access to real formatting,
    we would see (somewhat) more typographically sophisticated Word documents."
  created: '2006-05-31 15:54:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> small caps ... are a very valuable option\r\n\r\nTo the right people. Which
    is why if/when you\r\nmake them you should price them much higher.\r\n\r\n> Small
    caps are used by the publishing/design community on page layout apps.\r\n\r\nFew
    of them. Fake smallcaps (including when the font has smallcaps available <cite>right
    there in the computer</cite>) are the crushing majority, whether in small projects
    or large ones - like the monumental lettering on new buildings at UCLA, or around
    the \"display fountain\" at Paseo Colorado. One single jet in that fountain costs
    more than doing proper smallcaps, but it just doesn't happen. Education has to
    come first. Until then, you shoot for the pinnacle of users only.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-31 17:56:52'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I mentioned in an earlier thread that the [B] button in Word is the 5th most
    used 'feature' (after copy, paste, save etc.,) in the product. So if a SC button
    was on there by default I think small caps would be much more widely used - but
    even if they were not always fake would that be a good thing? I don't know.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-31 19:59:25'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Not only for Word, but for any app offering any button-based style options:
    Offer a Sc button  alongside others. Gray it out when real small caps are not
    present for the font selected. Then there can be no fake small caps. I''d rather
    not offer the option to make fake ones, if it trained users to be aware of what
    they even are. '
  created: '2006-05-31 20:04:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Gray it out when real small caps are not present for the font selected.\r\n\r\nDude,
    you have any idea how much money that would cost\r\nin support calls?! :-/  When
    people don't know the difference,\r\nthey'd very much like the fake ones, thank
    you very much.\r\nOr they'll \"vote with their pocketbooks\", as the sickly but\r\naccurate
    saying goes.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-31 20:31:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Vote with their pocketbooks? Can you name a wordprosessor that has 1% of
    the market except for Microsoft? Word Perfect is so far gone it needs a walker
    to move.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-31 20:49:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, my new Dell laptop came with a trial version\r\nof WordPerfect pre-installed,
    and it keeps asking me\r\nto pay up. I won't, but some people definitely will.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-31 21:21:51'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"Dude, you have any idea how much money that would cost\r\nin support calls?\"\r\n\r\nSimply
    offer a voice option for that issue that drops the caller at a message saying
    \"You have now entered the 21st century. You are now using typography. Congratulations.
    Have a Nice Day.\" [click]\r\n\r\nDo Word users really crave small caps? Simon? "
  created: '2006-05-31 23:08:58'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Is my observation correct that in Word 2007, kerning is off by default, and
    default lower threshold something like 11pt? I activated kerning and wanted to
    set the minimum to zero, but Word doesn't accept less than 8pt. Why?\r\n\r\n{edit
    10 July 2006: Indeed it *is* possible to define lower thresholds, even down to
    1pt or 0pt. But not by using up/down arrows, only by typing the value. And it
    seems to work.}"
  created: '2006-06-01 01:40:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I was intrigued to discover that shadow, outline, emboss and engrave effects
    are right in there with small caps in Word 2007. eek!\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-06-01 02:05:04'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: well, if they're faux small caps, that's prolly where they belong!
  created: '2006-06-01 02:28:34'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "How about not graying the small cap button but instead updating all the default
    fonts with  true small caps? And while they\u2019re at it, old style figures.
    Now imagine Comic Sans like this, the variety all the publications would gain\u2026 "
  created: '2006-06-01 08:41:05'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"How about not graying the small cap button but instead updating all the
    default fonts with true small caps?\"\r\n\r\nThat's smart. So forget it. :)\r\n\r\n\"but
    even if they were not always fake would that be a good thing?\"\r\n\r\nYes. From
    a typographic point of view, it would be good if the small caps were not always
    fake.\r\n\r\n\"Or they\u2019ll \u201Cvote with their pocketbooks\u201D\" \r\n\r\n:)
    MS clustomers do not vote with their pocketbooks on bundled items."
  created: '2006-06-01 11:15:48'
- author:
    name: pstanley
  body: 'I can''t see why small caps should not work as the italic and bold buttons
    do: you get true italics and bold if they are available, and faked ones if not.
    Admittedly, the faked ones look dreadful and a surprisingly large number of users
    don''t seem to notice (one constantly sees faked bold-italic monotype garamond).
    But the behaviour seems at least sane: the user gets the best typographical form
    of the font style s/he wants that is available.'
  created: '2006-06-01 11:47:01'
- author:
    name: moyogo
    picture: 111086
  body: Wow, there are some serious improvements. I really like the way hovering on
    font names in the font selection list actually changes the selected text. Unfortunately
    there are some serious issues. Like you said there's not access to advanced features,
    no use of real small-caps whether it is throught font variant or OT feature. There
    are still only 4 styles (mixed up with weights) recognized.
  created: '2006-06-01 12:17:54'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "I suppose Word will always pander to the lowest common denominator in this
    way simply because practically everybody has/uses it. And if everybody has/uses
    it, it's perfect for files that lots of people work on and then send around amongst
    each other. To do a document in Quark or InDesign it's assumed you care about
    design (to do a document in TeX it's assumed you care about technical accuracy);
    but the greater the number of people working on a Word file, the greater the likelihood
    that some of them don't care about design and/or know how best to use Word's features
    to achieve good design.\r\n\r\nThe 'Small caps' control has been around for ages,
    even if it does apply faux small caps and is not smart enough to know when real
    ones are installed (either as OT features or in a separate font file), but like
    many other potentially useful features it's not on the default formatting toolbar
    so a lot of non-expert users know nothing about it. It would also help if the
    default formats of the styles \"Heading 1\", \"Heading 2\", \"Heading 3\" etc
    were a little less ghastly.\r\n\r\nPerhaps the installation routine should include
    a dialog box saying \"Do you give a rat's nipple about typographical design?\"
    and if you say \"Yes\" it switches on kerning, and visibility of non-printing
    characters, and 'do-full-justification-like-wordperfect-6.x-for-Windows' and only
    gives you bold/italic/smallcaps options if there are appropriate variants available
    (and, when used, the buttons automatically apply an 'emphasis' or 'strong' character
    style or whatever), and switches OFF all autoformatting options and... well you
    get the idea. And if you say \"No\" it says \"Are you sure?\" and links you to
    a copy of Bringhurst on Amazon.\r\n\r\n_______________________\r\nEver since I
    chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2006-06-01 13:46:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Dav,\r\nLOL!!! Thanks for that witty and true post! and link me to the \"rats
    azz\" button :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-01 13:51:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> MS clustomers do not vote with their pocketbooks on bundled items.\r\n\r\nBut
    Word isn't bundled [all the time]. Like I said, my computer\r\nfor one wants to
    sell me WordPerfect instead. Don't get me wrong\r\nthough, I'm all for preventing
    voting, especially with money!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-01 14:05:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I guess Microsoft thinks they can do whatever they want when they want.</em>\r\n\r\nLet's
    be specific here: the Microsoft <em>Office</em> group has made a decision not
    to add OpenType Layout support for quality typography in European scripts in this
    version, despite the efforts of a lot of people within Microsoft to persuade them
    otherwise. I'm very frustrated about this. [Support for OpenType Layout for complex
    script shaping in Office, on the other hand, has been far ahead of any major competition
    for years: the multilingual aspects of OpenType are very much supported.] \r\n\r\nBut
    one shouldn't represent Microsoft as some kind of giant monolithic entity. The
    major program groups within Microsoft operate in many respects like separate companies."
  created: '2006-06-02 02:33:01'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> one shouldn\u2019t represent Microsoft as some \r\n> kind of giant monolithic
    entity\r\n\r\nThat's obvious. Even within \"monolithic\" companies there are different
    opinions, often contradictory. It's naiive to think otherwise. Decisions are not
    made by companies, they're always made by specific managers responsible for specific
    things. \r\n\r\nI agree with John that the lack of support for user-controlled
    OpenType Layout typographic features in Office 2007 is a big disappointment. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-02 10:40:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...the lack of support for user-controlled OpenType Layout typographic
    features in Office 2007 is a big disappointment.\"\r\n\r\nSo say we all :-(  Typography,
    children of a lesser God.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-02 15:57:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But Adam, when a manager makes a decision that doesn't sit\r\nwell with the
    shareholders, he usually isn't allowed to make\r\nmore decisions in that corporation...
    \ :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-02 16:52:51'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Somehow, I doubt that Microsoft's shareholders care much about typography.
  created: '2006-06-02 16:59:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Shareholders by definition don't care about anything except a return on investment
    (which is in fact the Achilles Heel of publicly-owned companies: the product is
    secondary). This doesn't mean individuals at such coporations can't do any good,
    but it means that it must be a good that can't be shown to hurt the bottom line
    - and very often that means it's a good that needs to go unnoticed (except by
    nuts like us). Even in a type-centric place like Adobe, when Thomas for example
    evangelizes and implements good typographic features, he does so <cite>in spite</cite>
    of the \"corporate culture\" that puts bread on his table. Keep it up, Thomas!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-02 17:04:57'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Sometimes good typography is good business. Sometimes it's still good business,
    but it is hard to prove that it is so.\r\n\r\nAlthough there is a focus on profits
    at a large corporation, this may also be described as \"giving the customers what
    they want.\" Despite any occasional barriers here, I am sometimes surprised and
    gratified by the strength of internal support for good typography at Adobe."
  created: '2006-06-02 22:40:45'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>What I\u2019m concerned with is that kerning is still disabled by default
    in Word 2007. That\u2019s absurd.</em>\r\n\r\nIt'll be ON by default in the WPF
    platform. Hooray!! :^D\r\nhttp://windowssdk.msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.windows.documents.typography.aspx\r\n\r\n>
    <em>On the other hand, I\u2019ve seen where the Windows Vista UI is heading and
    it\u2019s a nightmare. Not only it\u2019s completely different from Office 2007,
    it\u2019s also an overcomplicated mess.</em>\r\n\r\nConsidering the number of
    times the words 'font', 'Tahoma' and 'Microsoft Sans Serif' are referenced in
    this <a href=\"http://chris.pirillo.com/2006/05/24/windows-vista-feedback/\">Windows
    Vista Feedback</a> blog entry by Chris Pirillo, Vista's UI is indeed lacking consistency.
    (At one point he even goes on saying, <cite>I\u2019m kinda getting sick of talking
    about Microsoft Sans Serif and Tahoma. Someone needs to sweep the whole OS and
    get rid of \u2018em and fix app incompatibilities from that point forward. It
    should all be Segoe UI, no excuses - this is 2006/7.</cite>)"
  created: '2006-07-16 21:16:48'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i hope this isn't inappropriate, but does anyone have the original download?
    I just transferred all my data to a new computer and can't find where to download
    the original beta again, just the technical refresh...
  created: '2006-11-27 15:12:37'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: '...or if anyone has any tips on how to best port the apps over from my old
    system, i''d appreciate it. (both are PCs)'
  created: '2006-11-27 19:33:09'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: 'I ran the installation instead of saving it and after a quick search can''t
    find the beta or TR download website. But regarding your request if someone has
    the beta saved for you to use, I know that MS started charging $1.50 for downloading
    the beta because of the unexpected demand for it, although there''s no charge
    to upgrade an original beta downloaded for free. I''m not positive what the ethical
    position would thus be on using someone else''s download. '
  created: '2006-11-28 02:38:26'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: 'Paul, now that Office 2007 is ready to ship, I think they have stopped the
    trial downloads. '
  created: '2006-11-28 16:08:47'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: '...guess i have to wait a month or two to use the new office suite, eh? ah
    well...'
  created: '2006-11-28 18:28:12'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Paul, \r\n\r\ngrab the fonts somewhere, and keep using Office 2003 unless
    you really have to use the 2007 version now. \r\n\r\nI've been using Word 2007
    for some two months now, with some pain. The look of the user interface is actually
    insulting, and the way the new UI operates is inconsistent, confusing and annoying.
    Most VBA extensions don't work (e.g. my Duden spelling checker for German). The
    default text styles use the new ClearType fonts but apart from that are hell ugly,
    and on top of that modifying existing styles is actually even more complicated
    than it was in earlier versions. There are a few nice schickschnacks about the
    new Word but most of it is, mildly put, underdeveloped. \r\n\r\nExcel is a different
    story -- I do enjoy the functionality improvements there, though again, the new
    look is extremely pretentious. I have not looked at PowerPoint since I don't use
    it. \r\n\r\nAh... The world would be perfect if Apple hired some good software
    developers and if Microsoft hired some good designers. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-28 19:04:50'
date: '2006-05-29 19:42:36'
node_type: forum
title: Microsoft ClearType fonts released!

---
