---
author:
  name: Palatine
  picture: 110988
body: "I wanted my own [[Mrs Eaves|Mrs. Eaves]] thread. So here it is.\r\n\r\nI don't
  get it. I just can't set this thing right. At sizes below twelve points Mrs. Eaves
  disappears on the page, thanks to it's horribly small x-height. At sizes twelve
  points and slightly above it looks better, but the spacing is still way off. It's
  like Licko squashed it and then pulled it apart. It breaks the cardinal rule of
  typography (praphrasing Eric Gill, or was it Tsichold?) that word/letter spacing
  must be tight. And a larger x-height makes for far better legibility and readability,
  too.\r\n\r\nPeople are swooning over this typeface, and I really don't understand
  why. Maybe the ligatures are causing this mysterious suspension of reality. Maybe
  its distinctive design has overshadowed its shortcomings. Either way, It's a chore
  to read it. Licko's reasons for these oddities certainly dont justify them. I switch
  to a good Baskerville or Sabon and I relax, my eyes no longer straining to move
  over to the next unnecessarily distant letter and word. Did Licko forget to finish
  the kerning? Jenson seems very similar to Mrs. Eaves in its letterforms, but the
  spacing is far tighter, the way it should be.\r\n\r\nSorry for the rant, but I'm
  trying to find a reason to like this face as body copy. It just doesn't stand lengthy
  reading. Oh well. Perhaps someday I'll get my money's worth out of it. "
comments:
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Mrs. Eaves does not work as body copy. Period. It's too squat, serifs too
    wide. Nice italic, tho.
  created: '2006-06-02 04:43:24'
- author:
    name: K1RK
  body: I agree with pattyfab, it will never work as body copy, its kerning is tragic
    and needs to be adjusted manually. A nice display face I would never consider
    using it anywhere near twelve point or below.
  created: '2006-06-02 05:14:34'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "2nd and 3rd the motions. I saw someone working with it the other day and
    i was like...\r\n\r\n\"...did you track that out?...:\"\r\n\r\nand they were like,
    \"...huh?\"\r\n\r\nAfter explaining tracking to a fellow student, she hadn't.
    It was awful, I thought she had tracked the letterspacing out by 250. I even had
    a teacher who uses it (Eaves), but she <em>stretches</em> the italics to 120%.\r\n\r\nSeriously,
    if it is THAT poorly produced\u2026  <strong>USE SOMETHING ELSE!</strong> There
    are a few really awesome Baskerville's out there. Just don't <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hound_of_the_Baskervilles\">hound</a><br
    /> me about Mrs. Eaves. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-02 05:25:31'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "I know this topic has been beaten to death around here, but I find it disturbing
    that designers, typographers (if there is such a distinct group), and the interested
    laity like myself are more or less the only ones who perceive this problem. \r\n\r\nWhen
    it comes to a serif face that is being passed off as an all-purpose font - or
    at least one that is not being marketed as something other than that, spacing
    and kerning is everything. You can have a serif font with gorgeous letterforms,
    but if it fails as body text its value diminishes considerably, at least in my
    book. \r\n\r\nAll obvious stuff, but it's worth mentioning, I think. "
  created: '2006-06-02 05:55:26'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "<em>...its value diminishes considerably</em>  If not completely.\r\n\r\nYeah.
    It seems to me, Mrs. Eaves could get a passing grade if they invested some time
    in spacing . It is a shame really, even with it's problems, you can tell alot
    of time went into the forms.\r\n\r\nIt seems to me that Emigr\xE9 simply existed
    as a catalyst, if you will, in propelling future designers into the silicon age
    of typography/type design. For that, we have them to thank. I was initially drawn
    into type/design by Emigr\xE9 and the David Carson school of thought. At least
    with Carson, it didn't take me too horribly long to realize how  anticlimatic/cheap
    his work was."
  created: '2006-06-02 06:08:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I think David Carson's stuff ( sorry to be off topic here ) was incredibly
    strong - but not for any deep type reasons. Instead it works because of his graphic
    design/artistic skills. I think his compostion in particular was great. So great
    that they type could be really dubious and the pieces still worked. We are of
    course not all required to like his art but slagging him off because his work
    is associated with Emigre & you have a type related beef with Mrs. Eaves seems
    gratuitous or misplaced to me. Sort of like compaining that a rhino makes a poor
    racehorse or something. Maybe I need to look at what David has said about type
    more -  maybe I am missing something. Am I?
  created: '2006-06-02 16:34:14'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Emigre fonts try too hard. They are almost all flawed, unfortunately, even
    though some of them have really nice uses. I find they fall short of my purposes
    most of the time. A shame.\r\n\r\nYes, this topic has been beaten to death on
    this forum.\r\n\r\nRe David Carson - I can respect his place in type/design history
    without really liking his work very much. As a book designer who uses type for
    readability purposes and not as a \"design element\" I end up pissed off at most
    of what he does. "
  created: '2006-06-02 16:36:30'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I agree too. Mrs. Eaves isn't a textface. But, I think it is great when used
    in head or even subhead situations. When the text/paragraph is short there is
    not reason you can't make it work. As designer's I think we agree that in general
    Mrs. Eaves has great curves. (hah!) But she has issues with spacing. So, the problem
    becomes a good design challenge. If you choose to use Mrs. Eaves start using stylesheets
    with spacing rules specifically for her. \r\n\r\nShe's like chocolate. Too much
    and you get sick, but a little now and again is always a nice thing.\r\n\r\n(That
    said there are other Baskerville's. Doesn't Storm have a gorgeous one?)"
  created: '2006-06-02 16:49:45'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Storm has two gorgeous Baskervilles \r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/storm/john-baskerville/\">11pt
    and above</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/storm/baskerville-ten/\">10
    pt and below</a>\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-06-02 17:00:18'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Oh yeah, and I agree that Mrs Eaves doesn't cohere very nicely as a body
    text... It does have a certain colour that some folks might like. But it feels
    too brittle to me. It catches or restrains my eye too much as I read. I think
    that some of that is probably the kerning but much of it is letterforms. The letters
    are maybe just a little to interesting to play together nicely as a team. Which
    is an irritation. \r\n\r\nThat said, Zuzana did kick ligatures into the spotlight
    again. We should should thank her for that. And I think it's worth metioning that
    no face Baskerville style face looks quite so happy or perky as Mrs Eaves. Particularly
    in the ligatures. To me the face has a kind of Californian - or maybe sf/bay area
    - optimism. Put the font on a package or invitation and you get the subliminal
    impression that you too can have the happiness that the font radiates. That quality
    too could be irritating or impressive depending on what your intent is. To me,
    it explains why graphic designers like the font so much - a built-in optimistic/sensual
    emotional character. Why people think it looks 'feminine' is beyond me. But assigning
    a sex to fonts trains or vegetables has always seemed silly to me."
  created: '2006-06-02 17:05:49'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'There are many recent (last 10 years or so) typefaces which suffer from being
    to brittle. I have a theory about some type designers being hypnotized by the
    sharp curves which are created in Illustrator. '
  created: '2006-06-02 17:11:36'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: Vegetables?
  created: '2006-06-02 17:15:45'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Patricia, why 'pissed off'? Do you feel that he is getting away with something?\r\n\r\nTiff:
    Nicely put. Also: Gorgeous yes. Optimistic no.\r\n\r\nChristian: Don't you think
    the public has a resposibility to evaluate fonts as well? If I had designed Mrs
    Eaves I would hardly place restrictions on it's use. People make little enough
    money from their fonts as it is. The responsibilty as I see it is with the designer
    who buys/uses the font."
  created: '2006-06-02 17:17:04'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Vegetables. Some people will assign a gender to anything. Fonts too. \r\n\r\nHypnotized.
    - Good theory!"
  created: '2006-06-02 17:29:44'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I've never had an occasion to use the face, but I can see it's tremendously
    popular among designers. \r\n\r\nIf someone really wanted to get Mrs. Eaves to
    work better for text couldn't they use InDesign's Optical kerning option? Switch
    back and forth between Optical and Metrics kerning and print each out. Maybe the
    Optical option would save the face for your project. The other factors people
    have described may still weaken it, but it's worth a try."
  created: '2006-06-02 17:35:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You called?  :->\r\n\r\nAs I'm fond of saying, Mrs Eaves* is a beautiful
    woman who has a pronounced speech impediment. The problem is most people are too
    busy staring at her hair and cleavage to notice she has trouble communicating.
    You could say that the problem is subvisible, and so escapes general criticism,
    like how laymen think sans fonts are just as -or even more- \"legible\" (read:
    readable) than serifs.\r\n\r\n* The font. I have neither seen a portrait of\r\nSarah
    Eaves nor read about her speech skill.\r\n\r\nWhen it comes to reading, a font's
    various attributes make it suitable for certain sizes. Mrs Eaves has vertical
    proportions suitable for 14 point at the lowest (and this is why some people will
    reject it outright as a text face - I personally think a large book, like one
    placed on a lectern, maintains 14-16 as a possibility for text). Mrs Eaves also
    has a color (lightish) suitable for sizes slightly above the nominal ideal (~11pt).
    BUT: its spacing is for sizes around 8! In addition, its spacing is just plain
    bad - although very few people (not even most typographers) will notice. And it's
    not an issue of kerning: although Mrs Eaves has deplorable kerning, it would still
    work much better if its base spacing were decent.\r\n\r\n> Mrs. Eaves could get
    a passing grade if they invested some time in spacing\r\n\r\nNo, it could be <cite>great</cite>
    if they did so. And they had a chance, when they released the OT version. Now,
    there <cite>is</cite> a good reason not to change a font's spacing when you re-release
    it (some clients will hate the reflow) but there's also a bad reason lurking in
    the background: hubris. Mrs Eaves's spacing hamartia was heavily discussed early
    on, and it's possible that fixing the spacing would have been an embarassing admission,
    and artiste-ic climb-down some people can't manage; these tend to be the same
    people who cannot tolerate any criticism of their fonts, and generally don't engage
    in criticisms of the fonts of others: they consider it all sacred Art. Which is
    of course entirely anti-user.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nI guess in the end, most people
    find that being in the\r\ncompany of great beauty is worth more than being able
    to\r\nactually understand anything meaningful that beauty says.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-02 18:03:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If someone really wanted to get Mrs. Eaves to work better\r\n> for text
    couldn\u2019t they use InDesign\u2019s Optical kerning option?\r\n\r\nCarl, that's
    exactly the thought I had (on Typophile in fact) a while back. But my faith in
    InDesign's algorithm was not as well placed as my contempt for Mrs Eaves's spacing;
    the latter is simply too much for the former to handle.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-02 18:06:34'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Eben - not that he's getting away with something, more that I don't like
    the direction he pulled design into for awhile. I think there's a hostility towards
    the reader - in the service of \"breaking the mold\" or something. Which is why
    I can appreciate his work from a distance. We need to be tweaked to be sure, but
    he never won me over.\r\n\r\nI'm an artist too and feel the same about a lot of
    the art I see - glad someone's making it but wouldn't want to live with it. And
    the same feeling that people are so hungry for the next big thing that they lose
    sight of the relationship with the viewer. We end up drowning in hype but only
    history will tell - either with art or typography - what the lasting effect will
    be.\r\n\r\nHrant - great image the beautiful woman with the speech impediment.
    Or just that she has nothing much to say."
  created: '2006-06-02 18:28:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "RE: You called? :->\r\n\r\nYes, we need our vegetables sorted by gender!
    ;-)\r\n\r\nRE: I guess in the end, most people find that being in the\r\ncompany
    of great beauty is worth more than being able to\r\nactually understand anything
    meaningful that beauty says.\r\n\r\nI agree. It happens all the time. With people
    & text. At least you admit the beauty is there even if it isn't your priority!"
  created: '2006-06-02 18:34:19'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: The problem is I EXPECT beautiful women to be stupid. Beautiful fonts - I'd
    like to be able to use them, especially if they present themselves as useful (i.e.
    ligatures, open type, etc).
  created: '2006-06-02 18:39:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> there\u2019s a hostility towards the reader\r\n\r\nOr just the plain ol'
    ignorance -and ignoring- of the reader's needs.\r\n\r\n> Or just that she has
    nothing much to say.\r\n\r\nOr maybe that she has learned to say nothing much.\r\nAt
    least when the spit-guard is off.\r\n\r\n> we need our vegetables sorted by gender!\r\n\r\nIt's
    all in the wrist?\r\n\r\n> At least you admit the beauty is there even if it isn\u2019t
    your priority!\r\n\r\nI further admit that it <cite>is</cite> in fact a priority
    for me! :-)\r\nWhether I like it or not. I just hope I can keep that in check,\r\nand
    that we can see beauty deeper than just on the surface.\r\n\r\n> I EXPECT beautiful
    women to be stupid. \r\n\r\nThey're not. But because society helps them avoid
    thought by making their beauty adequate for survival, most of them simply take
    the easy way through (like most everybody else) and they don't develop the habit
    of thought -and expressing thought- enough.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-02 18:47:52'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Well some of them are. Call me bitter.
  created: '2006-06-02 18:54:57'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "RE: I don\u2019t like the direction he pulled design into for awhile.\r\n\r\nI
    don't know if it's fair to blame David for that. It seems to me that the blame
    - if it lies anywhere - would be with those who aped his style. And actually I
    am not sure that we are not going to need the mold broken again before too long.
    Certainly I think that design is looser & more expressive today than before the
    grunge car wreck. But thats just me.\r\n\r\nRE: people are so hungry for the next
    big thing that they lose sight of the relationship with the viewer.\r\n\r\nAgreed.
    That's always a problem when it happens.\r\n\r\nRE: she has nothing much to say.
    \r\n\r\nThis sounds sexist to me. And moreover body language, gesture, and facial
    expression are forms communication too. The problem with Mrs Eaves would seem
    to be in being too expressive & communicative. So it's the way it's 'said' that
    being objected to. You can after all read text set in Mrs Eaves! \r\n\r\nAs I
    understand the arguement text faces are meant to be more neutral in character.
    \r\n\r\nBut when it's time to dance do you really prefer the better talker or
    the better dancer?\r\n\r\nOr do you just want to ban dancing?"
  created: '2006-06-02 18:55:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The problem with Mrs Eaves would seem to\r\n> be in being too expressive
    & communicative.\r\n\r\nNope, in terms of immersive reading, it's simply the spacing.
    I personally think we can go quite far in terms of \"expressiveness\" without
    ruining immersion, as long as the important things (like good notan) are there.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-02 18:59:27'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "When the looks go south with age, I'd rather have the better talker.\r\n\r\nWhich
    also relates to the \"only one typeface for the rest of your life\" thread. Gimme
    a classic anytime."
  created: '2006-06-02 19:00:21'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "RE: The problem is I EXPECT beautiful women to be stupid. \r\n\r\nThat does
    seem like a problem.  Like any prejudice of gender race etc, I think it deserves
    to be set aside. "
  created: '2006-06-02 19:00:25'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "RE: I personally think we can go quite far in terms of \u201Cexpressiveness\u201D
    without ruining immersion.\r\n\r\nI think your right. You are probably willing
    to go farther with this than I am judging by your type faces and what you have
    said about fraktur/blacletter. However, Viva Notan!\r\n\r\nRE:  I\u2019d rather
    have the better talker.\r\n\r\nI agree actually - but I don't expect everyone
    to feel or act that way - even when they may expreses the same opinion. We don't
    always know ourselves so completely. Social choice as type analogy is fraught
    with difficulty too."
  created: '2006-06-02 19:07:54'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "I recently prepared my wife's resume in Mrs. Eaves!\r\nI thought that a feminine
    Baskerville would evoke what she wanted to convey. Also, my wife's name demands
    a particular ligature.\r\n\r\nAnyway... my wife was hired -- no doubt because
    she's great -- but I should mention that the interviewer asked her which font
    she used..."
  created: '2006-06-02 20:06:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the interviewer asked her which font she used\u2026\r\n\r\nUnless the interviewer
    was type-aware by training,\r\nthat's actually a bad sign (for the font, not your
    wife).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-02 20:30:04'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Not long ago I had to design the invitations for the private showing of the
    King Tut exhibit in LA. I used Mrs. Eaves and a mix of ID optical (minus 10 if
    I remember correctly) and hand kerning. Of course there wasn't a lot of body text.\r\n\r\nI
    was happy with it and so were the many who had a say\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-06-02 20:41:38'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'More and more people are type-aware. I no longer think it is a bad thing
    if people ask. '
  created: '2006-06-02 20:58:56'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: if you have some specimens of well-set Mrs Eaves, do share! I wanna see images.
  created: '2006-06-02 21:05:32'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'also to Hrant: In fact, I have clients and know of other people who make
    a point of asking about the typeface as they see it as something which shows knowledge
    of some kind. ;^)'
  created: '2006-06-02 21:08:16'
- author:
    name: SF
    picture: 111253
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Untitledw_3413.jpg]'
  created: '2006-06-02 21:23:24'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Everybody has computers now, hence fonts are not an alien concept to most
    people anymore. Why is it a bad sign that the client asks?
  created: '2006-06-02 21:24:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Because it means the font is upstaging the content.\r\nIt's only a good thing
    if type is somehow connected\r\nto the interviewer or the job.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-02 22:19:28'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "SF. Aha! See? Now there's an example of a well-set Mrs. Eaves. She's a display
    face, folks. Unfortunately, Emigre and the less typographically aware are pimping
    her as an all-purpose text font. \r\n\r\nUser her sparingly or not at all.    "
  created: '2006-06-02 23:15:55'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I have never set anything in Mrs. Eaves, and haven't gone back into previous
    threads to review the discussion of spacing. My question is: is the spacing bad
    because it is all over the map, or is it bad because it is considered too loose
    [= an edit: was 'wide'].\r\n\r\nLicko designed the characters to be wider / shorter
    in their x height (Patty's: 'squat') than the typical Baskerville. This contributes
    to more white within the letters, and if perfect spacing keeps the whites between
    the letter in synch with the whites inside letters, the interletter spacing must
    be looser than what we might normally think. So the wideness of the face dictates
    an open spacing.\r\n\r\nIf a compact, well-consolidated word image is what a text
    face should strive for, Mrs. Eaves moves in the other direction.\r\n\r\nDoes Licko
    claim otherwise?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-06-02 23:28:15'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Peter, I'll have to look at that. It's an interesting point.
  created: '2006-06-03 00:12:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> is the spacing bad because it is all over the map,\r\n> or is it bad because
    it is considered too loose\r\n\r\n1) The spacing is all over the map.\r\n2) The
    spacing is mismatched to the vertical proportions (and the color).\r\n\r\nLicko
    cannot claim Mrs Eaves has low/high readability,\r\nsince that would violate the
    all-important Emigre mantra.\r\nObviously, the issue of boumas, optimal notan,
    etc. isn't\r\neven remotely on the radar.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-03 01:22:18'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"The spacing is mismatched to the vertical proportions.\"\r\n\r\nHrant:
    can you spell out or show me what this means?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-06-03 02:13:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Repeated from above:\r\nWhen it comes to reading, a font\u2019s various attributes
    make it suitable for certain sizes. Mrs Eaves has vertical proportions suitable
    for 14 point at the lowest (and this is why some people will reject it outright
    as a text face - I personally think a large book, like one placed on a lectern,
    maintains 14-16 as a possibility for text). Mrs Eaves also has a color (lightish)
    suitable for sizes slightly above the nominal ideal (~11pt). BUT: its spacing
    is for sizes around 8!\r\n\r\nAlthough the numbers above are certainly open to
    discussion,\r\nthe important thing is that there's a relationship between a\r\nfont's
    spacing, color, vertical proportions and intended use.\r\nAnd to me Mrs Eaves
    clearly violates the relationship(s).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-03 02:21:02'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "To me, it's a very simple issue. Perhaps my inexperience with respect to
    design might actually serve me well here. \r\n\r\nA serif face meant for body
    copy (was Mrs. Eaves meant for that?) is either reasonably easy to read, or it
    isn't. If it isn't, then the designer's intentions regarding the stylistic raison
    d'aitre of the face, such as Licko's goal of a \"light\", \"open\" face or whatever
    else she wanted to do to Baskerville, no longer matters. As a text face that is
    to have the same function as a Quadraat, Palatino, Renard, Dolly, etc., Mrs. Eaves
    fails. \r\n\r\nI really don't care what Licko's stylistic justifications are.
    If Mrs. Eaves breaks the rules of sound typograpyhy (simply put, stuff that makes
    type easy to read), then it's all a wasted effort in that regard. \r\n\r\nMrs.
    Eaves finds success in other applications: wedding invitations, menus, displays,
    short tracts of texts, and so on. It's still a wide playing-field. SF's example
    is gorgeous. It seems the spacing is tighter as well.  \r\n\r\nCertainly, if the
    spacing were improved considerably by Licko, then we'd really have something that
    is worth more than a nice ligature set. The small x-height and overall squat letterforms
    would still not be ideal, but it would be enough to allow Mrs. Eaves to perform
    adequately as a versatile serif face. This would certainly inspire a greater appreciation
    of its beauty.    "
  created: '2006-06-03 02:32:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> if the spacing were improved considerably by Licko\r\n\r\nOr somebody else.
    Many famous and -otherwise- capable type\r\ndesigners (like Gill) have as a rule
    left the spacing to others.\r\n\r\nIn fact, I've <cite>heard</cite> that James
    Montalbano has in fact done\r\na respaced Mrs Eaves for a client, I presume will
    full permission.\r\nThis could just be a rumor though, so don't go repeating it
    without\r\nsaying so. And in any case, it's not something he, or anybody besides\r\nEmigre,
    is likely to be able to sell (or even gift to existing Mrs Eaves\r\nowners) outright.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-03 03:07:01'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"there\u2019s a relationship between a font\u2019s spacing, color, vertical
    proportions and intended use.\"\r\n\r\nWhat is the relationship between vertical
    proportions and spacing?\r\nDo fonts with a small x-height require tight spacing?
    Why is that? Does it hold for condensed and expanded forms equally?\r\n\r\nIsn't
    spacing part of what makes up colour? That is, a font only has a certain colour
    under a certain spacing. Where the spaces between the letters and inside the letters
    are in synch, in a font such as Mrs. Eaves the typographical result will have
    an even texture but lightish colour. When the spacing is tighter than that given
    by the condition in which the whites are in synch, the colour may be darker, but
    the texture less even. [later edit: added the word \"texture\"][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-06-03 03:22:51'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"Do fonts with a small x-height require tight spacing?\"\r\n\r\nPeter, to
    be specific, all the factors Hrant named interact, all the time. The size a face
    is set at affects the behavior of spacing, and x-height also affects it, differently,
    at different sizes. There isn't an easy way to pick apart which feature (x-height,
    stem thickness, serif length, overall spacing) is causing a specific effect. They
    all affect each other.\r\n\r\nI would say colour in a text face is a very imprecise
    and subjective thing to describe, when other factors such as evenness of spacing,
    and differentiation of letterforms are so much more crucial to the performance
    of a face.\r\n\r\nHrant has explained this above: Mrs. Eaves has letterforms and
    proportions which are appropriate for a specific size range, almost exclusively
    above 14 points. However, it seems to have spacing appropriate for sizes *much*
    smaller. This means that at small sizes, where the spacing is more appropriate,
    the face looks weak and tiny. At sizes where the letterforms hold up, the spacing
    is blowing apart. There's no size or setting that makes the face really excel,
    and certainly not for extended text. "
  created: '2006-06-03 07:06:45'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Carl, in my comment about colour I was not defending Mrs. Eaves. I was formulating
    an observation about the relation of spacing to texture and colour. (This might
    have been unclear. I originally wrote: <em>Where the spaces between the letters
    and inside the letters are in synch in a font such as Mrs. Eaves, the typographical
    result will have an even texture but lightish colour.</em> I have now moved the
    coma so it reads: <em>Where the spaces between the letters and inside the letters
    are in synch, in a font such as Mrs. Eaves the typographical result will have
    an even texture but lightish colour.</em>) [etc.]\r\n\r\nI'll try to write a little
    more about the intent of my question about the relation of vertical proportions
    to spacing later.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-06-03 14:11:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Peter, I figured you were trying to go beyond Mrs Eaves and into specifics
    of how the various parameters of a face relate - sorry I was lazy in my previous
    reply, in fact missing an important aspect:\r\n\r\nThose factors I mentioned are
    certainly not the only ones, and in this case specifically the issue of width
    comes strongly into play, with a wider font indeed needing more letterspacing,
    but also with a wider font being better for smaller sizes (so another area where
    there's an imbalance in Mrs Eaves).\r\n\r\nIn terms of x-height, as we know about
    Latin in general, it's more important to consider that than the point size (although
    not at the expense of ignoring the weight of the extenders completely). So a font
    having a wide body (relative to the x-height) is more significant than a font
    simply having a small x-height. And good letterspacing depends on the proportions
    and color in the x-height region more than anything else.\r\n\r\nWhere vertical
    proportions as a whole come into play however is in the suitability of a font
    for a given point size, since extenders play a greater role the deeper you go
    into immersion (the more you rely on the parafovea). There's of course a limit
    to how small you should make the x-height, since the fovea will always carry a
    notable chunk of the weight of reading.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-03 16:00:47'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant, you're right about my intent.\r\nMy purpose was to indicate that a
    letterform-set with a wide average horizontal dimension relative to the vertical
    in the x-height area--because of the amount of internal white produced--requires
    a loose spacing to set properly, so the spacing Licko provided might not be wrong
    relative to the intrinsic demands of the letterform. \r\n\r\nTight spacing is
    only productive if the design allows it, that is, if the counters are small enough
    in the horizontal dimension to bear it. Tightening the spacing of a font which
    is not made for tight spacing leads to other problems. Tight spacing is not a
    readability value at normal text sizes in itself. Words with tight spacing and
    compact counters benefit the perceptual integrity of the visual wordform, or as
    Noordzij might say the \"consolidation of the word\". But there is a discrimination
    affordance constraint for compact counters at small sizes. These countervailing
    pressures control the fitness of the face. In general I agree with the assessments
    about the fitness of the face for various forms of usage described above. It just
    strikes me as a face with an appeal incommensurate with it's fitness. It is a
    Bernard Modern in a way.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-06-03 17:30:51'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Didn't Emigre mentioned somewhere (if I remembered correctly, in their red
    exhibition catalog from way back) that their typefaces were not designed to possess
    a timeless and utilitarian quality to them, but rather designed to reflect the
    qualities and spirit of \"our times\"?\r\n\r\nSo obviously, they're doing what
    they do best.\r\n\r\nRegarding the selection of Mrs. Eaves, have anyone tried
    Tribute yet? I find it to be surprisingly usable in body text situation, despite
    its lively character -- and nobody uses them!"
  created: '2006-06-03 18:27:45'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "\"It just strikes me as a face with an appeal incommensurate with it\u2019s
    fitness.\"\r\n\r\nThat sums it up beautifully. The misapplication of Mrs. Eaves.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-03 21:55:59'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: its fitness
  created: '2006-06-03 23:23:13'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "This discussion about Mrs. Eaves and consequently, legibility, has inspired
    me to do a little digging around in my font collection. I've been testing various
    serif faces at dfferent sizes, and I must say, humanist serifs with generous x-height,
    open counters and tight spacing are best for legibility and overall reading comfort.
    Notwithstanding of course, one's particular stylistic tastes, and what is most
    appropriate for the context. \r\n\r\nGentium is one such example (http://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&item_id=Gentium.)
    \r\n\r\nI'm surprised that such a quality font (with such a vast character set,
    too) is free. It has a lovely, lyrical italic. And after searching Typophile,
    I'm pleasntly surprised to see that someone is working on a small caps/osf set
    for Gentium. "
  created: '2006-06-03 23:39:44'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Has Emigre changed some of the metrics in the OpenType version? Specifically
    is the letter-spacing more- less- or still the same ol' problem as the standard
    postscript version?\r\n\r\n\r\nThanks\r\n\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2006-06-04 09:12:08'
date: '2006-06-02 04:38:01'
node_type: forum
title: Mrs. Eaves woes

---
