---
author:
  name: track and kern
body: The recent appearance of certain threads made me want to have a thread my own
  as well. Actually, thats not really true, this thread was inspired by my hate for
  Copperplate Gothic, and how people think it looks great on everything. Does anyone
  else feel this way; and if so, can you start spreading the word that it just looks
  bad?
comments:
- author:
    name: albrey
  body: I'm not a huge fan either. It has its uses, but they are few and far between.
  created: '2006-06-07 06:31:58'
- author:
    name: noftus
    picture: 111246
  body: It's very ugly, arrogant, and represents mediocrity IMHO.
  created: '2006-06-07 07:13:40'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "I think it's like any other face. Preloaded on computer or whatever. I've
    seen it used well a few time, restaurant signage etc\u2026 My big issue with it
    is that it relative lack of character and it was designed by [[Frederic W. Goudy]].
    Never in my life would I have made that connection, had I not looked for it."
  created: '2006-06-07 07:15:17'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "at my old workplace (where i made a business apprentice), our designer redid
    our logo with copperplate gothic, giving us info display (!) as text-font. what
    a shame, he's a nice guy otherwhise.\r\n\r\ni understand your feelings ;)"
  created: '2006-06-07 08:27:59'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: We need a typeface that can subsitute Copperplate Gothic, for it has had a
    large area of use. The typeface itself I think is brilliant, but it's like Optima
    and all those other likewise fonts, they are so out of date in attitude and personality,
    and we are tired looking at and using them. But they are indeed very well designed
    typefaces, and more or less "classics". This is my theory anyway =)
  created: '2006-06-07 08:59:04'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: mannered -  I don't like it
  created: '2006-06-07 09:02:59'
- author:
    name: Rani
  body: I always think that I'll give it one last go, just to see if it will work,
    it never does. Copperplate is by far one of the most ugly, useless fonts I have
    ever seen. Sorry Mr. Goudy. :(
  created: '2006-06-07 09:25:32'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: I agree it's ugly - but well designed as a typeface.
  created: '2006-06-07 09:29:51'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "It's not a favourite of mine, but as Goran Soderstrom stated; it's a \"classic\"
    & it definitely has its uses (often works well for restaurants or undertakers).\r\nBut
    then again, some might even say the same about Comic Sans. By far the ugliest
    (though wide spread) font ever!"
  created: '2006-06-07 10:59:53'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: "Downtown Chicago. I took this in February, and it's now up in lights, immortalized.
    I'd post that but my camera is broken. Enjoy.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CopperplateSwashCaps_3983.jpg]"
  created: '2006-06-07 12:07:32'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: Jay-zuz! Which intersection is that Isaac?
  created: '2006-06-07 14:35:38'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/wiescherdesign/copperplate-classic/plain-swashes/\r\n\r\nI
    like Copperplate.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-06-07 15:01:34'
- author:
    name: track and kern
  body: Well, its nice to see this thread getting so much attention. Originally, I
    thought it would just be a flop, but then again, who could resist that title,
    eh, eh? Nice to see that we also have our first dissenting opinion as well, phew.
    I checked out those swashes, and really, imho, they aren't anything special. Copperplate
    either reminds me of something from a sci-fi horror thriller zombie something
    movie shoot-em up chop off your head kinda thing or a restaurant that thinks they
    are the first to use this elegant touch of class for all their collateral. I can't
    begin to tell you how much I have see it lately, which was yet another reason
    for this here rant!
  created: '2006-06-07 15:43:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I used to hate Copperplate and even did a spoof font on it once. I called
    it Cartridgeplate and made it look like gun shells. In the process, I earned a
    new respect for it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-07 16:03:00'
- author:
    name: track and kern
  body: do tell more chris. pics?
  created: '2006-06-07 16:07:58'
- author:
    name: GraphicFuzz
    picture: 111520
  body: I think it's just fine. But, whenever I see it used best it seems like the
    serifs are tinier and pointier. Is there another version like this, or am I seeing
    another face?
  created: '2006-06-07 16:30:23'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I like Copperplate when used properly. Problem is it has been ubiquitous
    for way too long, going back to hot metal days when it was one of the few widely
    available (hence all the wedding invites) and then on to the digital era when
    it was one of the first to be digitized.\r\n\r\nIt's hard to be objective about
    a font that is so overused - are we reacting to it as a font or just the fact
    that we can't stand the sight of it anymore?\r\n\r\nThat said I do still use it
    on occasion."
  created: '2006-06-07 17:14:57'
- author:
    name: track and kern
  body: I think that the last time I used it was to title an essay I wrote sometime
    during middle school. Even then, I suppose I was just destined to be in the design
    industry. Really, I understand its place in typography, but, can't it just take
    a sabbatical, an extended one. This is yet another font that people use for far
    too many things.
  created: '2006-06-07 17:28:10'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I should have been clearer, I posted the swashes because they reflect the
    type on the theatre not because they are an improvement on the original, in fact,
    they kind of miss the point. The 'ugliness'* is what attracts me but ubiquity
    can spoil a typeface.\r\nTim\r\n*I'm making an assumption on what that is"
  created: '2006-06-07 17:42:19'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: "Nate\u2014\r\nMonroe between Dearborn and State. I took my morning class
    there yesterday to look at it."
  created: '2006-06-07 20:36:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"do tell more chris. pics?\"\r\n\r\nI will dig it up at home tonight.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-07 20:39:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Matthew,\r\nHere you go...\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cartabc_6636.png]\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cartridgeplate2_6589.png]"
  created: '2006-06-08 02:43:05'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Chris did you make that font for Dick Cheney?
  created: '2006-06-08 11:52:48'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'As for Copperplate its a bit like the Spam song from Monty Python. "I''ll
    have Spam, Spam, Spam, Spam, Spam, Eggs and Spam." That might be a little to much
    Spam and I think its the case with Copperplate. To much of any typeface can turn
    you off. Remember the good old days in the 70''s when all the type was Helvetica
    minus tracking and minus leading (now that was a horror story) '
  created: '2006-06-08 11:58:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Dan,\r\nI made it in 1994 before I knew there was a Cheney.  I'll bet it
    might work well for cover tiitle of one of the humor books about him though:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-08 13:19:10'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: I thought a factor in Copperplate's popularity was specifically that at small
    sizes on business cards, the tiny serifs give a strong impression of extra crispness
    to the outline?
  created: '2006-06-08 14:58:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Copperplate reads extremely well at small sizes.  It does look crip, it just
    looks like old bank stationery.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-08 15:31:31'
- author:
    name: RN Lee
    picture: 111596
  body: 'Yeah, there''s nothing wrong with Copperplate, it was just way past run into
    the ground by the time Seattle''s Best Coffee came along and made the unfortunate
    choice of basing their "Hey, it''s red and gold, not green and white" pathetic
    rip on Starbucks'' corporate ID around it. '
  created: '2006-06-08 15:48:40'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: i don't hate Copperplate, but i rarely think it's used properly. i have to
    say i liked it when they used it for Seabiscuit though. it thought it fit very
    well with that film/period (and maybe much of why i liked it was because it felt
    like a refreshing change from every other film that uses Trajan).
  created: '2006-06-08 16:58:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yes, it was perfect for Seabiscuit.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-08 18:14:27'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: I don't mind Copperplate, for limited, specific uses. I can't think of anything
    more bizarre than that Swashes version though.
  created: '2006-06-08 18:56:11'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: If you want an alternative to Copperplate Gothic, consider using Jim Parkinson's
    <a href="http://www.typedesign.com/fonts/modfam.html">Modesto Family,</a> a display
    typeface for newspapers. It's available retail at Myfonts, Phil's and Faces.
  created: '2006-06-08 19:20:14'
- author:
    name: negativespace
    picture: 109845
  body: "Here is a bit of humor for you all, I laugh everytime I see this scene in
    American Psycho. A nice satire on the 80s; the pronunciations and names make me
    laugh, it also features Copperplate.\r\n\r\nhttp://negativespace.ca/misc/businessCards.avi\r\n\r\n(You
    will need the DivX plugin to view)"
  created: '2006-06-09 02:30:22'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: Ah, that scene is brilliant! Haha - Copperplate in it's right environment
    :)
  created: '2006-06-09 09:23:04'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: I was a big Copperplate fan before I became more type-aware and realized that
    it was <em>everywhere</em> already and often linked with mediocrity. I still like
    it, but wouldn't choose it without a very good reason. 'Seabiscuit' is a good
    example, Chris.
  created: '2006-06-09 13:35:31'
- author:
    name: noftus
    picture: 111246
  body: Interestingly, this thread has gone from 9 negatives, throw in a few neutral
    points, then to 9 positives for copperplate.
  created: '2006-06-09 14:02:29'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: <a href="http://www.apple.com/trailers/disney/ratatouille/">here's the most
    recent use of Copperplate.</a>
  created: '2006-06-09 14:15:10'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: I'm with Rugen. It might look best in metal, maybe 8 pt.
  created: '2006-06-09 14:30:40'
- author:
    name: roballoo
    picture: 110497
  body: "Let me put in another positive for Copperplate and add in the required \"In
    the right environment\" clause :)\r\n\r\nIt also seems like a lot of times it's
    either artificially extended or condensed which just don't help it's popularity
    with communities like ours."
  created: '2006-06-09 20:22:37'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Copperplate is still a useful typeface when you letterpress. Just as Goudy
    Sans improves when letterpressed, so does Copperplate.
  created: '2006-06-09 20:39:57'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "I would LOVE to see some Goudy Sans letterpressed? Tiff, got any samples???\r\n\r\nI
    saw a menu being printed up today... Copperplate stretched with Arial body text.
    Weeeeeeee!!!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-10 05:54:46'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Copperplate was originally designed to mimic letters engraved in copper or
    brass plate, for wall plaques, monuments, tombstones and the like. These days
    it gets printed in ink on all kinds of other materials---no wonder it usually
    looks so incongruous and out of place. Look closely at 19th century buildings
    and monuments and you'll find copper plaques with Copperplate used the way it
    was meant (designed) to be, \"...with corners sharpened with a flick of the burin.\"
    That doesn't preclude printing it with ink, as long as the treatment is very strict
    and conservative.\r\n\r\nCopperplate is not an inherently ugly font, but terribly
    misused. Goudy was one of the few type designers of genuine artistic ability.
    Typographers who say they dislike his fonts haven't acquired the requisite taste
    for his form of expression. Give it time and you'll eventually get it.\r\n\r\nBesides,
    associating ugly fonts with Fred Goudy (in the case of Copperplate) is erroneous
    because Copperplate's letter forms were not Goudy's invention. <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/wiescherdesign/copperplate-classic-medium/\"
    target=\"_new\">This blurb from Gert Wiescher</a> suggests the font we know as
    Fred Goudy's \"Copperplate\" is only one interpretation of a widespread 19th century
    engraver's letter form: <em>\"...Among others (for example Deberny & Peignot)
    F. W. Goudy\u2019s cut for ATF around 1901 is probably the most widely known.\"</em>\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  children:
  - author:
      name: alexfjelldal
      picture: 109596
    body: "how about this one?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/c5158_4607.jpg]"
    created: '2006-06-10 12:26:06'
  - author:
      name: piccic
      picture: 110375
    body: "\"Copperplate is not an inherently ugly font, but terribly misused.\"\r\nPrecisely,
      James. As it happens with a myriad of typefaces which got over-exposed in recent
      years.\r\n\r\nCopperplate is meant to be used in very small sizes, with discretion,
      and in black on white. More or less like the original Microgramma (Eurostile
      predecessor by A. Butti) was.\r\nUsing typefaces like they do today destroys
      all their context.\r\nIt is like judging a person's behavior as a whole by a
      single act.\r\nTruly aberrant.\r\n\r\nOther possible examples:\r\n\xB7 increasing
      the \"Cap height\" of Emigre's Democratica;\r\n\xB7 applying a tridimensional
      cheap effect to typefaces imitating handwriting or calligraphy;\r\n\xB7 using
      blackletter faces to represent \"evil\";\r\n\xB7 using ITC Garamond to typeset
      a book in 11 pt. size (or less).\r\n"
    created: '2006-06-10 17:30:03'
  created: '2006-06-10 11:34:55'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Aaah, duotone, another overused design element, how long did the sleeve designer
    think before saying, \u201CI know, it's called Duotones, so\u2026\u201D?\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-06-10 12:47:12'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: 'Thanks for the info James!  Thats kind of a relief. '
  created: '2006-06-10 14:10:04'
- author:
    name: scott
    picture: 110186
  body: "\r\n\r\ndoes anyone know, {or could advise where to start looking!}\r\non
    the subject of the \"true\" copperplate gothic eg: {32AB, 29AB etc etc}\r\nand
    the \"revolting\" version you get in a font bundle,\r\nnamely copperplate gothic,
    - bold or roman...?\r\n\r\n\r\n\"sheer pastiche,....\"..!"
  created: '2009-02-11 03:44:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Aaah, duotone...</em>\r\n\r\nActually, it's just a straight second-colour
    tint."
  created: '2009-02-11 04:32:22'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Scott, I'm not sure what you mean by \"true\" with regard to that completely
    opaque alphanumeric naming system.\r\n\r\nThe original Copperplate Gothics as
    provided by ATF are shown on pages 334&#150;349 of the 1923 catalog. Somewhere
    on Flickr is a photo set of the whole catalog, I believe, so you could start there.
    (Sorry, I don't have a link. Someone here will.)\r\n\r\nThe styles that ATF produced
    were Heavy Copperplate Gothic, Light Copperplate Gothic, Light Copperplate Gothic
    Condensed, Heavy Copperplate Gothic Condensed, Light Copperplate Gothic Extended,
    Heavy Copperplate Gothic Extended, Copperplate Gothic Italic, Copperplate Gothic
    Bold, and Copperplate Gothic Shaded.\r\n\r\n-- Kent."
  created: '2009-02-11 14:08:20'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Nothing at all wrong with Copperplate per se. It's a very nicely made face,
    and it can be printed oh so sweetly letterpress from metal on card stock.\r\n\r\nBut
    the arrangement of contemporary versions such as those named 31BC or 33BC leaves
    them open to mis-use. They are set up as two sizes of capitals, with the same
    baseline. (I'm not sure whether we should properly call these versions caps/small
    caps.) \r\n\r\nThe problem comes with the figures, which are the same height as
    the larger caps. When figures are set alongside or amongst the smaller caps (on
    the lower-case/unshift keys), they are too prominent; they upset the flow of the
    line. It would be best to avoid such settings, but most people seem not to see
    this or to care.\r\n\r\nI got a charming business card the other day from a Bulgarian
    cellist. Charming because the design (with Copperplate) is positively Victorian,
    yet this fellow is a proponent of Balkan avant-garde music. The charm of the design
    was slightly lessened by this mis-use of Copperplate with regard to the figures
    in address, phone number, e-dress, etc.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2009-02-11 14:30:27'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "And all this teaches us once again a form of writing is better used when
    understood in the environment it was conceived in.\r\nGood use is always possible,
    but consciousless design is always hard to find\u2026 ;=)"
  created: '2009-03-06 19:16:25'
- author:
    name: FrankSmith
    picture: 113578
  body: "I'm new here, so I'll keep it short.  My perspective on Copperplate is that
    of a sign maker, so my use of it is about 100% different from it's original use.
    \ There are enough weights and versions for it to work well when I feel the need
    to use it.  I use it for secondary or tertiary copy, usually.  I do not get excited
    about it.\r\n\r\nThere's a new take on Copperplate named [[http://www.thefontry.com/copperpenny|Copper
    Penny]] that I'm excited about, but I'm biased because I know one of the designers.\r\n\r\n
    \  "
  created: '2009-03-07 06:12:44'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Haha! Now you look almost like a criminal to me\u2026 :P\r\nJokes apart,
    to use Copperplate in a sign the serifs should be reduced in inverse proportion
    as you increase the size. Only after that it would became more or less acceptable\u2026
    ;=)\r\n\r\nBut you could always use [[http://www.itcfonts.com/fonts/detail.htm?pid=243147|Blair]],
    it would be a big improvement for the surrounding landscape\u2026 :=)\r\n"
  created: '2009-03-09 21:45:04'
- author:
    name: FrankSmith
    picture: 113578
  body: "My point of view here is as a signmaker and that often goes into the realm
    of fun and exaggeration.  Sometimes we must use brash affectations for our purposes;
    I just happen to like big honking serifs sometimes, if legibility isn't too badly
    undermined.\r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2009-03-15 13:59:16'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "I like Copperplate in its place... Frank has a point from the sign industry
    viewpoint. The smaller serifs on the standard Copperplate don't survive certain
    production formats very well. \r\n\r\n[[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/fontry/copper-penny/]]\r\n\r\n[[http://origin.myfonts.com/s/aw/original/40/0/20617.pdf]]\r\n\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-03-16 19:12:54'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: '[[http://www.typodermic.com/32.html|Biondi]] by Typodermic is also a good
    substitute for Copperplate for signs and other low-fidelity applications. It is
    a bit more of a literal interpretation than Copper-Penny.'
  created: '2009-03-16 19:57:45'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "Copper Penny has two lower case versions... \r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-03-18 16:10:50'
date: '2006-06-07 06:05:23'
title: CopperHATE

---
