---
author:
  name: j_polo9
body: "So I was reading \"What'll be the next big thing...\" And saw that paul d hunt
  created Franklin Caslon. I was like Bah! thats been the next font on my list since
  i got an email about it months ago! (when i get funds to buy fonts) \r\n\r\nBut
  it got me thinking how this is like the only forum for any type of design i've come
  across with celebrities in the buisness who participate. And I also read that the
  hydro 74 guy is a member and professors of typography... So I was just wondering
  who our other Rock star members in the buis are?\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Equating Rock Star with someone willing to sit and determine the specifics
    of glyphs, ligatures, and kerning pairs is a stretch.\r\n\r\nOne of the most prolific
    would be <a href=\"http://typophile.com/user/827\" target=\"_blank\">User 827</a>.
    \r\n\r\nI've never met him, but I'll bet he's pretty hip.\r\n; )\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-10 07:37:35'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Isn''t it better for you to decide for yourself? '
  created: '2006-06-10 07:37:54'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: why?
  created: '2006-06-10 07:42:09'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "just to disabuse you, i am NOT a rockstar. just a guy lucky enough to make
    some $$$ making type. now [[Joshua Darden]], [[Christian Schwartz]], [[Ken Barber]]...
    there you have some real talent! Oh, and there's one thing i can agree with fontplayer
    on, [[Alejandro Paul]] is a script genius! Other designers that I look up to that
    frequent these boards (in no particular order): [[Mark Simonson]], [[Nick Shinn]],
    [[Hrant Papazian]], [[Stuart Sandler]], [[Randy Jones]], [[Christian Robertson]]
    and future rockstar [[Chris Lozos]].\r\nFor a fuller listing see [[Typophile type
    designers]]"
  created: '2006-06-10 08:42:53'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: Swedish Stefan Hattenbach definately rocks!
  created: '2006-06-10 11:35:13'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: Is the rumor that Herr Spiekermann himself has, and still does, frequented
    Typophile true?
  created: '2006-06-10 17:18:18'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Almost everyone, albeit occasionally, frequented typophile. Maybe an exception
    are Rudy Vanderlans and Zuzana Licko?\r\n\r\nAbout your list, Paul, I think is
    quite incomplete, although I'm not so actively participating to know who was,
    who's been and who is here."
  created: '2006-06-10 17:42:10'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "By the way, Paul: I saw your Kilkenny typeface. Wouldn't it be possible to
    have a PDF of it? I see most IHOF faces have it.\r\n\r\nI grew a fondness for
    late 19th and early 20th century faces (which I used to quite dislike) in the
    last year or so, and I collect material.\r\n\r\nI have a Coca Cola tray which
    reproduces a calendar from 1891, and I always guessed if the face used was a lead
    type. It's \"Kilkenny Swash\", so the lead original is probably to pre-date at
    least of 5 years compared to your 1896 dating."
  created: '2006-06-10 17:48:18'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: sweet thanks paul! Too bad their aren't wiki's on a few of them so i can read
    up on them though.
  created: '2006-06-10 20:06:14'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: It's better to decide for yourself because it's better to decide who makes
    the type you admire most yourself. Then it might mean something. Maybe it's just
    a semantic difference. If you had asked whose type we admire the most that would
    be easier to answer. When you write 'rock-star' then it feels kinda creepy.
  created: '2006-06-10 23:48:37'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>When you write \u2018rock-star\u2019 then it feels kinda creepy.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    agree, that is how I felt originally after reading it. If there is a star here,
    in my mind it is aggregately all the people who are so helpful. And the Type ID
    forum pretty much rocks!\r\n; )"
  created: '2006-06-10 23:55:04'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: Ahh gotcha. I mean who do you admire I suppose. Rock star just seemed like
    it would attract more people to the thread. And party I also was thinking these
    people are sort of famouse in the type industry so i used the term "rock star".
  created: '2006-06-10 23:58:12'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Well, famous is another thing. In certain circles Graham Meade of Typotheticals
    is famous for all his free fonts, and his L'ab work especially. He is getting
    known for his commercial fonts also.
  created: '2006-06-11 00:10:04'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Gerald Giampa (ex owner of Lanston) was kinda rock star styled and frequented
    this forums alot until he got to sail the seas.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-06-12 15:23:06'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Oh and Jim Rimmer (candian punch cutter) is some kind of underground rock
    personality.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-06-12 15:24:18'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: Vince Connare of Comic Sans and Trebuchet fame has to be considered. He rides
    a motorcyle and runs Alienware too!
  created: '2006-06-13 15:03:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Some outstanding American type designers not posting here: Robert Slimbach,
    Sumner Stone, Matthew Carter, Christian Schwartz, Tobias Frere-Jones. \r\n\r\nSome
    type luminaries posting: David Berlow, Erik Spiekermann, and Jonathan Hoefler--all
    outstanding type designers and heads of founderies--FontBureau, FontFont, and
    H & F-J respectively. "
  created: '2006-06-13 15:56:58'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: 'The most creepy & useless  thread! The Ego season?  Just delete it! '
  created: '2006-06-13 16:14:36'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "Why exactly? I started it out of curiosity...\r\n\r\nThis is fairly helpful
    though:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/20643"
  created: '2006-06-13 16:21:51'
- author:
    name: grumpyoldbugger
  body: Utterly pathetic.
  created: '2006-06-13 17:50:33'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Well this thread is redundant to boot since I started a similar thread a
    few weeks back. Not to grease any egos but more for my own edification, to better
    understand who was posting.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19891"
  created: '2006-06-13 17:54:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Using the word 'rock star' sends off vibes of the whole American 'celebrity'
    sickness. But to understand who is posting is useful, as Patty says. Someone may
    give good or bad advice whether they are still a student or have a record of 40
    years of accomplishments. Still, I kind of like to know the context, and I think
    most people do. \r\n\r\nI notice that now Identifont.com has pretty good designer
    profiles; maybe we should have a place on the profile to link to a profile there
    or elsewhere. That could also be linked on the 'wiki'\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2006-06-13 18:15:06'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I also inadvertently insulted a typophile member's font and would like to
    be more careful in the future. Another reason to know who's posting.
  created: '2006-06-13 18:17:09'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Why exactly?\r\n\r\nDon't take it (too) personally. \r\n\r\nLet's see ...
    Cyrus Highsmith -  rock star?  What about Akira Kobayashi? And John Hudson?\r\nAnd
    Jean Francois Porchez? And...And...."
  created: '2006-06-13 18:48:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Spiekermann is probably the most famous \"regular\" here.\r\nRvL did participate
    momentarily, and Licko has been here\r\nanonymously (back when that was allowed)
    as  far as I'm\r\nconcerned.\r\n\r\nBTW William, Christian Schwartz is around.\r\n\r\nAs
    for Paul, he's an emerging star, plus he rocks, so that's like 75% there.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nPatricia,
    you should definitely <cite>not</cite> limit your\r\ncriticisms to the work of
    people who are not here.  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-13 19:22:01'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: Who are the country stars here?
  created: '2006-06-13 19:30:10'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I just want to KNOW who I'm insulting ;-P
  created: '2006-06-13 19:33:37'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: I think <a href="http://typophile.com/node/20612">Yves</a> is the only <em>real</em>
    rockstar on here. :^p
  created: '2006-06-13 19:42:13'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: Then I guess that makes Dezcom and I "golden oldies" (like Bo-Diddly and The
    Big Bopper) ;-O
  created: '2006-06-13 20:06:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: In the late 80s I played sheet metal and oil drums in an industrial percussion
    band called Puke Theatre. But we were about as un-rockstar as you can get.
  created: '2006-06-13 20:07:53'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Oh John, how delightfully wretched. It sounds like a sit-com from BBC. \r\n\r\nI
    think the parallel is really inappropriate and awkward. So few type designers
    seek fawning attention, and the work is so different and un-spontaneous. There's
    also the issue of quality that the very term \"rock star\" ignores. \r\n\r\nA
    favorite, and more appropriate metaphor: Shoes. "
  created: '2006-06-13 20:19:43'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>A favorite, and more appropriate metaphor: Shoes.</em>\r\n\r\nI wonder
    who the Imelda Marcos of Type is?  ;-P"
  created: '2006-06-13 20:30:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">So few type designers seek fawning attention, and the work is so different
    and un-spontaneous.\r\n\r\nYeah, Christian Schwartz announces on his 'Orange Italic'
    that he's \"prepared to be famous\"--knowing that no type designer is ever going
    to be famous. \r\n\r\nBut to lighten up about the 'rock star' thing: \r\n\r\nTo
    be a rock star you have to be under thirty and ridiculously successful at what
    you do. Hoefler was a rock star, but sorry now he's just a type designer. Hoefler
    & Frere-Jones could have been a 'boy band', but now they're just working stiffs.
    That makes today's actual type rock stars: Underware--whoops they just got too
    old--and the aforementioned Mr. Schwartz, who shortly will be just another overworked
    type designer.\r\n\r\nGet to work Kris Sowersby! :) "
  created: '2006-06-13 20:40:13'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Plus rock stars have an awfully high fatality rate, which wouldn't be good
    for the typography industry.
  created: '2006-06-13 20:56:25'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "I have enough trouble shaking off the groupies and paparazzi <em>without</em>
    being a \"rock star\" as it is!\r\n\r\nThat's why I always wear my \"Groucho\"
    disguise ;-)"
  created: '2006-06-13 21:07:51'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: lol. who would have known the term rock star to cause so much trouble :\ well
    besides hotel managers that is. Makes for an interesting read though!
  created: '2006-06-13 21:31:32'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "Me\u2026 I am a rock star. I like to rock out."
  created: '2006-06-13 22:55:31'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'I am the John Barry of type. Loud, brassy, dramatic. '
  created: '2006-06-13 23:20:57'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "<em>Who are the country stars here?</em>\r\n\r\nROFL\r\n\r\nCheck out the
    type battles... rock stardom there is self evident."
  created: '2006-06-14 01:35:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Oh John, how delightfully wretched. It sounds like a sit-com from BBC.</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    sort of felt that way at the time. From one of our concerts, a friend's girlfriend
    had be rushed for emergency dental surgery because the vibration impacted one
    of her wisdom teeth. At another ill-advised gig our only audience was an old man
    who had come in for the cheap beer. I have a recording someplace, but it doesn't
    do any justice to just how bad we were live."
  created: '2006-06-14 06:05:26'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Narrow it down, who has thrown a TV from their hotel room or parked a Roller
    in a pool?\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-06-14 10:57:51'
- author:
    name: michaelbrowers
    picture: 111225
  body: William's more narrow definition of a "rock star" is interesting and clever.
  created: '2006-06-15 16:36:44'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: In my rock band days we played CBGBs. But try playing aggressive urban rock
    to an audience waiting for the ska headliners. It was ugly!
  created: '2006-06-15 16:49:08'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>William\u2019s more narrow definition of a \u201Crock star\u201D is interesting
    and clever.</em>\r\n\r\nYeah, but I don't think you need to be under 30. I would
    still call Matthew Carter a \"rock star.\" Truth be told, when I was asked to
    describe him by some of my designer buddies, that was the actual term I could
    used.\r\n\r\nRock Star=1. Larger than life persona\r\n                 2. High
    level of notoriety in your field\r\n                 3. A person that exudes confidence
    and/or charisma\r\n                 4. One who performs rock music for a living
    and is astronomically successful at    doing so\r\n\r\n\r\nThe term \"rock star\"
    in and of itself isn't bad, its just the context that its used. Its kind of like
    talking about how great your \"lawnboy\" is at a landscaping convention. "
  created: '2006-06-15 19:10:03'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Notoriety? Carter? Has this terms meaning morphed on me?\r\n\r\nHey Terry,
    will you be in Boston?"
  created: '2006-06-23 07:27:07'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "\"What does that mean, in-famous?\"\r\n\"In-famous is when you're MORE than
    famous. This man, he's not just famous, he's IN-famous. \"\r\n\r\nI am the only
    type rock star here. Everyone else is too classy.\r\n\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-12-19 05:08:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Riiight.
  created: '2006-12-19 05:28:58'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: ":)\r\n\r\nGig before last was a band logo. My most recent font is dedicated
    to the DIY libertarian real punk bands of the '70s. My next font is inspired by
    the work of Korn's Johnathan Davis, as well as a classic book from Innovation
    comics. So thats rock star type, in a way. Well, more appropriately it is progressive
    trans-media emulation, but really, isn't rock dead?\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Me</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!It</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">Us</a>"
  created: '2006-12-19 23:10:56'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: Hopefully Brighton 2007 AtypI will be Rockers and Mods so Rockers rule and
    we all dress in Leather or Macs....
  created: '2006-12-19 23:16:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yves fits Choz's definition.\r\nPerhaps the rest of us are between a rock
    and a hard place :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-20 01:30:31'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: Yves? Which definition?
  created: '2006-12-20 03:49:54'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: Stephen Coles is one.
  created: '2006-12-24 07:15:40'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: Hardly a rock star, but I was part of the <a href="http://www.binkhalidsonicpollution.20m.com/">Kenyan
    punk scene</a> in my high school days... Two of my tracks were released on our
    collective EPs and everything.
  created: '2006-12-25 11:48:56'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>Yves? Which definition?</em>\r\n\r\nI presume my bald head reflects
    that much light people mistake it for a star. And <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/20612\">I
    rock</a>. So maybe that's why? Dunno..."
  created: '2006-12-26 00:35:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Right On Brother!\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-26 03:09:46'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "How about the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Grant_%28music_manager%29\">Peter
    Grants</a> of type?\r\n\r\nCould we call people like Thomas Phinney and Sii Daniels
    the Leo Fenders and Les Pauls of type, since they're the men behind the technology
    used by the Rock Stars?"
  created: '2006-12-28 05:06:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: The definition originally intended by the person who started the thread; EG
    who are the big deal folks in the world of type here on Typophile is getting lost
    here. Even though I disparaged the idea of talking about that as a subject as
    being merely an opportunity for losing one's own sense of what's important I think
    that sliding off into talking about who makes fonts & makes tunes & behaves in
    a rakish maner ( or is somehow like a les Paul ? ) is even sillier and doesn't
    help the person who started the thread. But that's just my opinion. Okay, enough
    cold water from me! Cheers Yves!
  created: '2006-12-28 23:01:36'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I almost see your point, but there are very real distinctions between the
    <cite>types</cite> of type people here.\r\n\r\nIn the world of musicians, there
    are those who are rock stars due to popular acclaim. But, even the biggest rock
    stars have stars, \"musician's musicians\" they call them. No matter how big or
    how good or how famous a rock star gets, there is still always someone that <cite>they</cite>
    admire and want to meet.\r\n\r\nSame thing for Typophiles."
  created: '2006-12-29 08:04:32'
- author:
    name: matthew_desmond
    picture: 110578
  body: "I'm the O.G. Hip-hop type designa\r\nI'll battle anyone anywhere\r\nSo beware\r\n\r\nM
    to tha @"
  created: '2006-12-29 20:42:02'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Folk arts.\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2007-01-03 04:13:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Happy New Year Gerald!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-03 12:47:52'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I feel like there could be too many \"rock stars\" in the world right now.
    Everyboy seems to be turned into one by the media, no matter the field\u2026 :=("
  created: '2007-03-09 16:43:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's part of the West's cult of personality, where everybody is either a
    hero (just watch \"Higglytown Heroes\") or a villain (just watch Fox News). This
    flies in the face of reality, where almost everybody is in fact just a ho-hum
    peon.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-09 16:51:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>It\u2019s part of the West\u2019s cult of personality...</cite>\r\n\r\nHow
    are personality cults a western phenomenon? Do the gigantic film and music industries
    of Nigeria, India, China, Hong Kong, and Japan just not count?"
  created: '2007-03-09 17:07:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You really think you can draw a clear line between East and West?\r\n\r\nTravel,
    travel, travel.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-09 17:09:48'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: It's about time for some press releases of type designers checking into rehab
    for heroin addiction. And some reality TV shows with hysterical battles over kerning
    pairs would be good too.
  created: '2007-03-09 17:55:13'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'I''ll be at the His n'' Hers Salon on Cienega tomorrow at 2 pm frantically
    shaving my head. Bring your cameras. '
  created: '2007-03-09 18:02:45'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I always relish meeting all the Typophiles (and all the off-Typophile type
    folk too). But it's also true that cetain people whose 'eye' or ideas (or both)
    matter to you are especially nice to talk to. Not that it will ever come to that
    - but being treated like a 'rock star' sounds tiresome & dehumanizing to me.
  created: '2007-03-09 18:18:22'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>It\u2019s about time for some press releases of type designers checking
    into rehab for heroin addiction. </em>\r\n\r\nHeroin is so last year. Its cocaine.
    :) Requires less tools, and quicker in bathrooms. A lot of New York designers
    are into it. That's why so many work 12 or more hours a day. I wish I was joking,
    but I ain't. \r\n\r\nSome really party like rock stars, including the sex and
    drugs part. Though, \"sex, drugs and graphic design\" doesn't have as much of
    a ring to it. Sex, drugs and type design? Um...you'd have to ditch the first word.
    :)"
  created: '2007-03-09 18:37:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The rockist type event of recent years would have to be the TypeCon San Francisco
    party.\r\n\r\nBased on attitude and performance, I nominate Joachim Muller-Lance
    (drummer in the band), Tony and Caio de Marco and Max Kisman, crazy dancers. And
    hhp for substance abuse, of course :-)"
  created: '2007-03-09 18:42:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I was in an elevator with Mathew Carter at last year's TypeCon. He did not
    travel with an entourage or band of bodyguards. He talked like a real human being,
    joked, and seemed like a regular fellow. I am glad to see he was not so smitten
    with himself to be acting like a rockstar even though he had recently been written
    up in the New Yorker.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-09 18:45:14'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Matthew Carter hasn't been called the shiznit for nothing. :^D
  created: '2007-03-09 18:57:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">not ...acting like a rockstar\r\n\r\nI have been involved with two other
    groups of professionals--academic philosophers and Jewish educators. \r\n\r\nI
    have found type design people to be MUCH more open, kind and helpful to one another.
    I haven't figured out why, but I love it. Hats off. \r\n\r\nMaybe I shouldn't
    write it and 'jinx' it, so next time I have a terrible experience. But I don't
    think so. "
  created: '2007-03-09 19:00:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Not to mention jacket abuse... You know I had to send a small gift to the\r\ngracious
    lady who cleaned that mess up, just to numb the guilt a bit.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-09 19:16:34'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Hrant, I've heard so many stories about this! Anybody got some  embarrassing
    blackmail pictures to post...please? :)
  created: '2007-03-09 19:19:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I maintain that it was a self-cleaning mechanism,\r\nand the subsequent shut-down
    a conscious decision.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-09 19:23:08'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Ah, so type designers are like smooth jazz musicians. I've met the latter
    many times (although I play a slightly different style), and they are some of
    the nicest musician that I've met\u2014in comparison to other genre in general\u2014being
    warm, down to earth and naturally interesting to talk to.\r\n\r\nCalling them
    a rockstar would almost be an insult, if you know what I mean ;-)"
  created: '2007-03-15 07:34:25'
date: '2006-06-10 07:09:27'
node_type: forum
title: Who are the Rock Stars here?

---
