---
author:
  name: j_polo9
body: I used to use Arial (default) and then Helvetica Neue but since it's bad for
  copy I'm wondering what everyone else uses for an interesting font for emails. Also
  is their any particular reason you use that specific font? (is it just versatile,
  is that font significant to you for some special reason, etc.) Discuss!
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Lucida Grande. I only wish it had an italic. :^/
  created: '2006-06-10 20:41:41'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Verdana because I read it was optimized as a screen font, or something like
    that.
  created: '2006-06-10 21:18:31'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Lucida Grande. Under Mac Os X it seems the only decently readable typeface
    at reasonable small sizes.\r\n\r\nThe missing Italic, as Tiffany pointed out,
    is mostly annoying when you use it for writing text as well, not just plain emails,
    as I do.\r\nI use it at 11pt. size.\r\n\r\nProbably under pre-Vista Windows the
    best choices are still Georgia for the Serifs and Verdana or Arial for the Sans
    Serifs."
  created: '2006-06-10 21:42:05'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Monaco at 9 pt.
  created: '2006-06-10 22:11:27'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: Courier New. not aliased.
  created: '2006-06-10 22:37:22'
- author:
    name: eron s
  body: 'Courier New (plain text emails) or Verdana for html emails, since its well
    hinted (what fontplay said). '
  created: '2006-06-10 22:52:04'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: hmm one thing I hadn't thought about until now, is how do people recieving
    the email view the type face if they don't have it on their system? Does it get
    embedded somehow? Or does it just default to their default font?
  created: '2006-06-11 00:00:19'
- author:
    name: eron s
  body: "Jesse, I'm pretty sure it defaults to their default font--html email works
    like webpages.\r\n\r\nEron"
  created: '2006-06-11 00:59:27'
- author:
    name: Mark Foster
    picture: 109627
  body: Rodrigo X Cavazos's <a href="http://www.psyops.com/html/spec_adaptive.html"
    target="new">Adaptive Mono</a> for outgoing mail, and Fred Smeijers's <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=verity.search&font_categories_search=font_name_search&searchstr=quadraat+sans+mono&image.x=17&image.y=16"
    target="new">Quadraat Sans Mono</a> for incoming. Each is crisp and easy to read
    on screen; Adaptive in particular was a real discovery.
  created: '2006-06-11 01:07:59'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=catalog.fontpackage&startrow=1&records=&currpage=1&totalrecords=4&displayfontid=FB.111842.0.0&fontRendererText=To%3A+Jesse%2C+Re%3A+Fonts\">Amplitude
    Wide</a> is an ideal screen font \u2014 wide, square and well-hinted. It replaced
    Lucida Grande as my system font for a while, but that can create some issues where
    the OS expects type of a different width. I still use it for iChat, Mail and other
    defaults."
  created: '2006-06-11 02:13:44'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: '"To: Jesse, Re: Fonts" lol thats pretty sweet!'
  created: '2006-06-11 05:20:08'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "I\u2019m with Alessandro. Aliased 9pt Monaco. Plain text rules. HTML drools."
  created: '2006-06-11 05:22:59'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "10pt Verdana - almost 100% guaranteed to display the same - wherever it's
    seen.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-11 09:13:50'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "'<a href=\"http://www.lust.nl/lust/stereotype/index.html\" target=\"_blank\">LUSTPure</a>',
    by Lust.\r\n'<a href=\"http://www.ms-studio.com/FontSales/anonymous.html\" target=\"_blank\">Anonymous</a>',
    by Mark Simonson / Susan Lesch + David Lamkins.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.dav.name\"
    target=\"_blank\">Dav</a>\r\n\r\n* Edited. Sorry, Paul, It wasnt ment to 'sound'
    that harsh. <em>( I just wondered if you actually added the 'keyworded link' to
    every single post / reply, to 'improve' your search engine rankings. )</em>"
  created: '2006-06-11 11:18:21'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "WTF? I added that as my signature - which happens to appear whenEVER I reply
    to a thread.\r\nWhat's it doing to Search Engine?\r\nI have removed the text which
    apparently caused you so much grief.\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-12 01:58:05'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "Bah add it back I say. If we can help improve search engine rankings of typophile
    members... why not?\r\n\r\nOnly I don't remember what it looked like but you might
    want to make it look separate from your actual post with a rule or something to
    make a clean separation."
  created: '2006-06-12 05:00:45'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "indeed. though the limits of this forums become apparent...\r\n\r\n<hr>\r\nThis
    is an example of a signature. You need to be VERY careful what you put here. Some
    people think it is possible to take over the world with a signature.\r\n\r\nLooks
    identical to other/body text doesn't it? and &lt;hr&gt; doesn't work.\r\n\r\n<hr
    />"
  created: '2006-06-12 08:36:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Lucida Grande here too.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-12 14:02:16'
- author:
    name: Tim Brown
    picture: 110622
  body: 11px Verdana
  created: '2006-06-12 21:43:47'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Geneva
  created: '2006-06-13 04:08:32'
- author:
    name: pantone354
    picture: 111454
  body: Lucida Sans Unicode
  created: '2006-06-13 04:56:20'
- author:
    name: Duckworth
  body: Verdana or Arial - I think Lucida Grande is nice, but it seems to be only
    standard on Mac OSX - fine if you only send emails to other Mac users, but Verdana
    or Arial are pretty much ubiquitous.
  created: '2006-06-13 09:18:39'
- author:
    name: Stephen Lording
    picture: 109670
  body: 'Georgia. I''m a serif person and I really like Georgia. I''m glad there''s
    a system font that''s so good. '
  created: '2006-06-13 10:22:24'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: Georgia on my mind
  created: '2006-06-13 11:29:11'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: Trebuchet - thanks to Vince. I like it except for the splayed M. And everybody
    has it.
  created: '2006-06-13 15:00:19'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: Ha thats funny I was just wondering that no one said trebuchet yet :P
  created: '2006-06-13 16:16:07'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Candara, one of the new MS CT fonts, designed by Gary Munch, on an off-white
    background. The 17 pixel size in Thunderbird is about 12pt on my screen:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CandEM_4602.gif]"
  created: '2006-06-13 20:13:10'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: hey Londontype.. I had to make the M splayed because when I was working with
    Matthew Carter on Tahoma I had to make sure it was different at small sizes than
    his, So his was straight, mine is splayed.. sorry
  created: '2006-06-13 23:32:54'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: View at 110% for optimal comprehension [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Grabbed_3640.234122.jpg]
  created: '2006-06-14 12:32:33'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: 'hi David, each to his own, but that is a seriously bad looking font, why
    is the lowercase w not hinted symmetrically? and why is the leading so tight?
    whats with the y shape?, and does the dot on the i need to be so high? '
  created: '2006-06-14 13:38:06'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: 'Vince - I had noticed that Tahoma had a very Johnston-like M. That explains
    it. For sans the splayed M is still much better than one with a "v" that touches
    the baseline. Trebuchet shows up in lots of print and display advertising, and
    some signage in my area. '
  created: '2006-06-14 13:52:36'
- author:
    name: weinziet
    picture: 110727
  body: I use Verdana most of the time, it has good proportions, but I recently switched
    to Trebuchet.
  created: '2006-06-15 02:42:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "M. Duggan Spanketh: \"...that is a seriously bad looking font, \"\r\n\r\nFor
    those of you who might wonder at Mike's post, he's pissed at me for telling another
    forum (a MS one at that), that he called them \"all morons\" for questioning the
    wisdom of converting the once nearly standard points-per-inch into a \"variable\",
    (and one MS has not described). But, I apologize, I'm sorry, and I give Mike free
    reign to start a smear and bad-type witch-hunt. I can handle it, completely. Can
    you?\r\n\r\nOn my post the individual pixels of this precious font are exactly
    where I and the client want(ed) them, sorry. The leading is mine and reflects
    my reading skills (the client got more). But Mike, those are all \"tree\" issues
    only \"appreciated\" in zoom. Maybe they are even \"leaf\" issues, but that...
    depends on the scale factor. ;)\r\n\r\nYou, Mike-rosoft, have forest issues you
    are politically and intellectually prevented from facing. Canadra e.g., is a beautiful
    outline, stunning even, probably the one I'd most likely use in print, if it were
    made for that. But the x-ht. region (9 p @ 17 a pixel em according to John's post-it-note,
    sans-zoom), is so ham-fistedly flattened by your (?) hints, (to the same 2 pixels
    as my wee font's 5 pixel x-ht....!?), that I wonder if you're trying to emulate
    smeared 1980's dot matrix printers. Are you?\r\n\r\nThe outline shows consistent
    strokes and spaces, the branches of pdbqnmru, e.g., all nice and sweet, but by
    the time it's in John's specimen...they're just like Robert E. Lee's brother,
    Ug. The aerst, a substantial subset of our Latin use, are all poorly rendered
    from nice outlines, and the dot on the i is so low, (how low; it looks up to a
    snake) it's el-ing...\r\n\r\nLeaves, I know, but these are all Screen Typography
    101. Maybe, Kevin can do a study: does a human see an i with no or distant dot
    better than an i with-dot-too close (in context only please, no tricks)? And,
    since leaves are your specially, so while you're at it, why not tighten up the
    hyphen so two will look more like an em dash when windows users need one? \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-15 14:46:04'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: "Once again David also speaketh, in the usual cryptic language. Dave I am
    not pissed off, I just thought the font looked bad, hinting is supposed at its
    simplest level take care of symmetry issues such as the lowercase w and the shape
    of the y. You can tell me whatever you like in the most cryptic terms, you can
    tell me you wanted the w that way, ok. but I as an observer can disagree that
    I think it\u2019s a good font for reading, I don\u2019t like it, and I wouldn\u2019t
    use it ever, and my criticisms of it still stand. I don\u2019t understand any
    of your comments on Candara, possibly John might? When I compare Candara in CT
    to your font I see that the game is finally over. I mean come on, who is finally
    going to say, hey look the king David has nothing on....\r\nIt might be good for
    us to meet up sometime to discuss, as the forum here doesn\u2019t help us progress
    methinks.\r\n "
  created: '2006-06-15 17:01:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, the Candara hinting was done by Tom Rickner. It's relatively flat
    in the x-height <em>because so is the outline design.</em> If you compare the
    screen rendering to the printed type, side-by-side, it is pretty obvious why Tom
    made the decisions he did, because any other decisions would be distortions of
    the design. We all know that black and white bitmaps can be highly readable; the
    goal with ClearType is to not only make type readable but actually make it look
    like the individual typeface at the same time. Your black and white bitmaps for
    Concert, regardless of whether one likes them or finds them readable, give me
    no idea at all about what the actual typeface design looks like.\r\n\r\nAs I see
    it, we have:\r\n\r\nBlack and white aliased bitmaps: good readability, bad typeface
    differentiation.\r\n\r\nGreyscale antialiasing: poor readability, better typeface
    differentiation.\r\n\r\nCLearType rendering: good readability, much better typeface
    differentiation.\r\n\r\nI'm sorry, but I'm with Mike: the Candara example simply
    looks way better than yours. Is there seriously some deliberate reason for this:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ConcW_4435.gif]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-15 18:43:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Flying w's, take this pile of m&m's and shove it! :) [img:sites/default/files/old-images/W_4685.grab.jpg]\r\n\r\nLike
    I said, nothing to hide. I'm sure every pixel of Canadra is perfect at 10 pixels
    per em. So, if you want to make that comparison, fine. I was asked what I read.
    Someone came along and said \"wow, that's bad type you read there\" I answered
    that bad type is a relative term...e.g. look at this yellow thing. Now, can you
    fellas show me Canadra at 10 pixels on a Mac or not? ;) 10 pixels at all? or are
    apples and oranges comparisons, studies, tests and fonts, all you ever do to arrive
    at the 1 \"true\" answer?\r\n\r\nAnd, I'm sure Tom did the best job he could with
    the staggering amount of complexity needed to make and hint these fonts. I tip
    my glass to him. But the x-ht. region (9 p @ 17 a pixel em according to yellow
    type), is ham-fistedly flattened by his hints, and still I wonder if you\u2019re
    trying to emulate smeared 1980\u2019s dot matrix printers. Are you?\r\n\r\n\"hey
    look the king David has nothing on\u2026.\" King? I was never so anointed, but
    as it only took your co. $30 million (or so), and 17 years to get where you imagine
    me to be, I'm glad for you. And, I'd take you up on the drink, but I hear no room
    for progress, and I see less. There is no default for 72 points per inch right,
    The rendering will only be done based on the assumption that CT outlines have
    been designed, There will be no variations, There will be no CT with integer spacing.
    Your operating system is done forever, isn't it?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-15 23:01:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Now, can you fellas show me Canadra at 10 pixels on a Mac or not? ;)
    10 pixels at all?</em>\r\n\r\nOn a Mac? No.\r\n\r\nI can show you Candara at 10
    ppem on Windows, but that makes the x-height smaller than your Concert. In order
    to match them one would need to go for 12 ppem.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cand1012_6481.gif]\r\n\r\nAs
    you can see from the nominal point sizes, these ppem sizes are pretty friggin'
    small on my system.\r\n\r\n<em>But the x-ht. region (9 p @ 17 a pixel em according
    to yellow type), is ham-fistedly flattened by his hints</em>\r\n\r\nTom's hints
    are actually very light: as I said, the flatness is in the design. If you push
    the curve connections lower on the stems at that size, it stops looking like Candara.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CandnVTT_5889.gif]"
  created: '2006-06-15 23:35:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The difference between the two w's is that the 'M&M' colours are not apparent
    at actual size. That stray black pixel is impossible to miss even when the pixels
    are as small as they are on my screen.\r\n\r\nBy the way, I use an off white background
    in my e-mail client because I happen to like it. I got into the habit when using
    CRT screens, because the brightness and contrast settings always seemed to force
    a choice between violently glaring white and dull grey. Off white background colours,
    like off white paper stock, allowed me to keep up the brightness without the glare."
  created: '2006-06-15 23:44:07'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: "- And, I\u2019d take you up on the drink, -\r\n\r\nI didnt say anything about
    a drink ;-) David you like black and white bitmaps to read, and you like to have
    your characters badly shaped onscreen, what can be bad for you about that, you
    have everything you want. Just so you know the CT font collection was my idea
    originally. I proposed it because I thought that with the advent of ClearType,
    we could make the screen an even better place to read, and so we designed some
    typeface that take advantage of the new technology. I think it worked, in fact
    I  benifit from it every day, as does JH. I use the CT fonts on my system everyday,
    and we have heard from many other how they also do. The CT font collection are
    not the only fonts however that benifit from CT. Verdana and Georgia, and Trebuchet
    for instance all look great in CT. Any font that is well hinted and has a good
    weight for onscreen rendering will also look great. There is no way forward if
    we stick to black and white rendering. You just cant make beuatiful pages that
    way, type needs to look & read like type. You mentioned earlier that I was both
    intellectually and politically challenged,(is the first part of that an insult?
    ;-)  and that you didnt see any point in meeting afterall as you saw no progress.
    Its a shame, as there clearly is progress, but you just dont see it yet. The offer
    still stands, and sure ok I will buy you a drink. :-)"
  created: '2006-06-16 00:37:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Sorry to take so, and be so, long. Summer came. I went out. It was nice.
    I\u2019m back. Not for long.  \r\n\r\nJohn\u2019s in quotes.\r\n\u201CI can show
    you Candara at 10 ppem on Windows, but that makes the x-height smaller than your
    Concert. In order to match them one would need to go for 12 ppem. \u201C\r\n\r\nNo
    john, you don\u2019t get a match for Concert 10 at 12ppm, it doesn\u2019t work
    that way. Ironic... on my Mac, there are five sizes for email type in \u201CEntourage\u201D.
    Smallest, Smaller, Medium, Larger and Largest, although I think these actually
    can be represented by numbers that represent points. On Windows, in Entourage,
    are there names for the sizes? or numbers?\r\n\r\n\u201CIf you push the curve
    connections lower on the stems at that size, it stops looking like Candara.\u201D\r\n\r\nUnless
    it\u2019s about the outline, and not the typeface, it stops looking like Canadra
    with a 2:1 ratio of stem to hairline i.e. From 12 to 25, (reading range!), should\u2019a
    made a Gothic. The point (at this late stage in the game), of your kind of sub
    pixel rendering in an inflated density-of-points-per-inch universe, I\u2019d think...
    is to jump to a reading range where more or less than two pixel stems exist, as
    fast as possible...In fact, if you were cramming points and l.c. body building
    with that goal in mind...I\u2019ll tell Mike in a minute...*\r\n\r\n\u201CThat
    stray black pixel is impossible to miss even when the pixels are as small as they
    are on my screen.\u201D\r\n\r\nMy little diagram (at \u201C100%\u201D ;) (Which
    I can\u2019t attach because this crappy forum\u2019s like that), shows how Verdana
    performs on the Mac (it doesn\u2019t). If this were my product, I\u2019d reject
    it before it got out the door. So, I adopted Concert, because ***it was the only
    face I know, or have seen anywhere... that matches Verdana as Verdana appears
    on a Windows machine***, which I like. Pause, look, and consider the qualities
    I had to reject. Y and y, (Verdana), look pretty good in the outline, but (at
    9, 10 and 11 ppm), turn into a radiation symbol, and a u oganek (for the world)...
    And you\u2019re worried about my wee pixels (just for me)? John, your typographic
    judgment, which I summarize below as \u201Cget used to it\u201D, when looking
    at the broad needs of users or email users, is in a believe system I do not understand.
    \ \r\n\r\n\u201COff white background colours, like off white paper stock, allowed
    me to keep up the brightness without the glare.\u201D\r\n\r\nBack up dude, or
    get a better monitor. Mine adjusts minutely and by switching users as darkness
    grows, or when lightness comes, you have \u201Coptions\u201D that don\u2019t involve
    experiments on your rods and cones. By options, I mean that type and user become
    more fluid than one hack after another to land in some spot...the screen is not
    just a book/note book \u2014 its a TV, a jukebox, a weather station, a telephone,
    a vending machine, a million different vending machines, a comic book and a house
    of worship. You gonna carry around little yellow tissues to stand on in all those
    places where CT goes?\r\n\r\nThen (and it\u2019s a good thing I have a secret
    twin) Mike:\r\n\u201CDavid you like black and white bitmaps to read, and you like
    to have your characters badly shaped onscreen, what can be bad for you about that,
    you have everything you want.\u201D\r\n\r\nI know, slam the man\u2019s wart after
    giving him leprosy, I axed for it. See Verdana. See Verdana poop on the Mac? :)
    \r\n\r\nMike, you could have done the same magnificent job on these and the CT
    fonts if you/MS had allowed you/ATR to do it without tricks. These fonts greatness
    begin where 2 pixel stems (of any color) begin, and lasts to where the xht. has
    become too big on the body. See, users prefer Verdana and Georgia! (that early
    study), ((((until they prefer Arial and Times at...14? 16? pt.)))) (what ever
    \u201Cpt.\u201D means). That says a lot ya\u2019 know \u2014 here are print fonts,
    beating screen fonts on the screen!      So, scaling the body has great effect,
    but as you know, or maybe not, you can\u2019t tug on one end of This rug without
    moving the other. So, Verdana functions best in print as a small point size, not
    as a match of the use on screen, (or do you scale printed points too \u02DC\u02DC#01(!*?).
    Arial and Times (and their genuine italics) are superior in print for their compactness
    in composition, for their better proportioned heights, and more favorably chosen
    contrasts. So, scaling the body (and other optical tricks for screen fonts), leads
    to a diminishment of the functional range. Adding the fact that CT does not deal
    in B&W, you have a range of positive effect from 10 ppm till, who knows, but it\u2019s
    finite beyond your wildest claims.\r\n\r\nDensity is the second trick. (I don\u2019t
    have a typographic term for it, because no one else has decided on cramming more
    \u201Cpoints\u201D into an inch, what do you call this?). By adding significantly
    to the usual 72 points per inch, you almost insist on scaling the body larger
    to be successful at screen text sizes, you shift the location of the 1-2 pixel
    barrier down the point-size range, though not quite far enough*, and as screen
    resolution climbs the 1-2 barrier shifts even farther... then pffft what happens?)\u2020.
    \ Good Job. Now we can make text OR display faces for the screen. Or, we can cop
    an attitude like John\u2019s, (which I highly disrespect), that users will \u201Cget
    used to\u201D huge bodies, like they\u2019ll \u201Cget used to\u201D his mismatched
    companion italics in print? NOT my clients, sorry.\r\n\r\nThere are lots of possible
    ways forward. But let me tell you \u201Cthe one\u201D, because I\u2019ve seen
    it from MS before \u2014Nothing will be said outside of the official party channels.
    I.E. There was no public help whatsoever when MS decided to change the name of
    Helvetica to Arial, with all the kluge work that represented. There was no guide-to,
    definition of, or disclaimer when MS redefined the point, with all the kluge work
    that represented... And now...CT fonts, will be endlessly distributed for free,
    and no one will ever know outside of \u201Cthis room\u201D where the rug went,
    and what \u201Cthose nasty little designers did this time\u201D, unless...\r\n\r\nMy
    ideas (of general progress for all screen font users) are: variation technology,
    higher resolution and bigger screens, 2 kinds of distant users, and bigger fonts,
    based upon a 72 point per inch system that allows integer and non-integer spacing,
    color and b & w rendering, and a tuner that covers the needs of all users. Personally,
    I\u2019d also like 7 kinds of font encryption, one of which would be reserved
    for companies in the type industry.\r\n\r\nMS has ruled variation technology out,
    created its own definition of resolution outside of broad standards, defined the
    distance users should be from the screen (literally, once-and-for-all), opposes
    distant links of fonts to users on de web, shrinks fonts then grows fonts, uses
    integer metrics vertically - not horizontally, and has the b&w rendering just
    about right but believes only in color rendering. \r\n\r\nI am obligated, as small
    as I am, to stick to an infinitely more hopeful definition of progress than your
    dark and typographically twisted scenario. The fonts scale. They do, really, you
    don\u2019t have to do it for them. The users, they know how to change point sizes
    too, really, they do, you don\u2019t have to do it for them. Your way, I\u2019ll
    try progress (just right now!)* See if you can slam a few more points into an
    inch, i.e. get that friggin x-ht. up to 17 pixels at 12 pt 144 dpi,  because when
    I hear \u201C...and square shapes work better than round ones\u201D and I see
    no Old Style in your CT Collection, I know we have not gotten to \u201Csolving
    the screen font problem on windows.\u201D  Also, as resolution climbs further,
    tell me when your redefinition of the points per inch is no longer a good thing
    (wasn\u2019t that just \u2018cause early windoze monitors were < 72?)\u2020. I
    know 72 points per inch is an option buried somewhere in the user\u2019s choice,
    and I\u2019ll need to figure out how to manipulate that if I want to play.\r\n\r\nIn
    the mean time, I\u2019ll use a Mac. And I hope if your products of your quality
    definition arrive here again, and as you can see, they suck, maybe they\u2019ll
    get better. But I\u2019m mostly interested in sizing, instructing, and pressure
    testing my email fonts to work on the Mac. Second, my print clients use the Mac,
    and we only gaze into your typographic Tartarus as files fly through in PS production,
    above your OS we miss your kluges. Third, since you guys got into the fonts online
    business, print readability fonts have become all the rage, keep it up. Finally,
    I must stand clear of your progress because someone\u2019s gonna have clean this
    mess up, and I bet you will not be there. If you are, then start cleaning up now:
    publish a specification for \u201CCT on Windows\u201D from the beginning of the
    \u201Cem\u201D to the rasterizer\u2019s decision string per pixel, x and y if
    they are different. If you can do that, honestly, then \u201Cit\u201D wasn\u2019t
    an insult,honestly, if you can\u2019t then \u201Cit\u201D also wasn\u2019t an
    insult, honestly.\r\n\r\nAll the best.\r\n\r\nP.S. Mr. or Ms. Typophile, when
    you accept .pdf files, Email me, and I\u2019ll be back. Until then, I\u2019m out
    of here."
  created: '2006-06-20 19:13:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>No john, you don\u2019t get a match for Concert 10 at 12ppm, it doesn\u2019t
    work that way.</em>\r\n\r\nI meant that is the size at which the x-height in pixels
    is matched, which seems to me the best way of comparing lettershapes and rendering.
    But I showed you the 10ppm size too.\r\n\r\n<em>On Windows, in Entourage, are
    there names for the sizes? or numbers?</em>\r\n\r\nI've no idea. I use Thunderbird
    for email, and font size is spec'd in pixels."
  created: '2006-06-20 23:35:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: PS. The ending of your post seems to be truncated, David.
  created: '2006-06-20 23:35:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think the greater-than symbol makes it seem to the software that there
    is an html tag to follow and it hides the rest of David's post.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-21 13:38:48'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Chris was correct. I edited David's post to read \"more or less than two
    pixels\" in the fifth paragraph so it wouldn't be truncated by the forum software.\r\n\r\nDavid,
    you can attach files of any type to the first post of a thread, but the feature
    is missing in \"comments\" or subsequent posts. I hope the guys at Punchcut will
    fix that soon."
  created: '2006-06-21 16:07:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Or, we can cop an attitude like John\u2019s, (which I highly disrespect),
    that users will \u201Cget used to\u201D huge bodies, like they\u2019ll \u201Cget
    used to\u201D his mismatched companion italics in print?</em>\r\n\r\nI think this
    is very unfair. I don't think I have said anything, in this thread or elsewhere,
    to suggest that is my view. I certainly don't recall using the phrase 'get used
    to' about any of these things, so I'm not sure why you are putting it in quotes.
    You've decided that this is my attitude, and you are wrong, and in the process
    of being wrong you seem to be ignoring the areas in which I agree with you and
    the more substantial areas in which I can't disagree with you because I haven't
    got a clue what you are talking about.\r\n\r\nWorried that I might actually have
    said something to lead you to this erroneous and unfair characterisation of my
    opinion, I did a search to see if I had ever, in fact, used the phrase 'get used
    to' in any Typophile thread. I found one from the discussion on type and national
    identity back in April:\r\n\r\n<strong>It takes less than one generation for readers
    to get used to a particular or limited set of type styles, or to the output of
    particular typesetting technologies which may have significant technical limitations,
    and then to mistakenly cling to these as being \u2018correct\u2019, in the process
    abandoning huge swathes of the history, evolution and variety of their writing
    system.</strong>\r\n\r\nNow you might pause to consider that someone who made
    such a statement might share many of your concerns about limitations in type technologies
    and the narrowing of options. I have already said, in one of our other discussions,
    that I don't think Microsoft's readability research has been substantive enough
    to be the basis making ClearType the only rendering option in an operating system,
    and that such a decision is more likely to be driven by engineering criteria.
    I happen to think that ClearType rendering is on the whole better than other stuff
    I look at, but I'm also concerned about what might be compared to a loss of biodiversity.\r\n\r\n\r\nOn
    the subject of 'density', I'm still not sure what you are talking about. Sorry
    to be slow, but can you explain?"
  created: '2006-06-22 08:23:35'
- author:
    name: Skochii
    picture: 111030
  body: "Garamond and sometimes Trebuchet MS\r\n_____________________________________________________________________\r\nClaude
    Garamond  \u2665  Aldus Manutius  \u2665  Francesco Griffo  \u2665  Eric Gill
    \ \u2665  Hermann Zapf  \u2665  William Caslon  \u2665  Nicholas Kis  \u2665  Otl
    Aicher"
  created: '2006-06-22 14:50:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Sorry... I used symbols that should never be used for anything but Mat, but
    some pinhead figured'd be \"okay\" to make in to typesetting commands in the midst
    of text. \r\n\r\n...your (windows) redefinition of the points per inch is no longer
    a good thing (wasn\u2019t that just \u2018cause early windoze monitors were !@#$#%
    less than 72?). I know 72 points per inch is an option buried somewhere in the
    vista user\u2019s choices, and I\u2019ll need to figure out how to manipulate
    that if I want to play according to \"my own\" rules ;)\r\n\r\nIn the mean time,
    I\u2019ll use a Mac. And I hope if your (Mike'srosoft), products of your quality
    definition arrive here again, and as you can see, they suck, maybe they\u2019ll
    get better. But I\u2019m mostly interested in sizing, instructing, and pressure
    testing my email fonts to work on the Mac. Second, my print clients use the Mac,
    and we only gaze into your typographic Tartarus as files fly through in PS production,
    above your OS we miss your kluges. Third, since you guys got into the fonts online
    business, print readability fonts have become all the rage. Finally, I must stand
    clear of your progress because someone\u2019s gonna have clean this mess up, and
    I bet you will not be there. If you are, then start cleaning up now: publish a
    specification for \u201CCT on Windows\u201D from the beginning of the \u201Cem\u201D
    to the rasterizer\u2019s decision per pixel, x and y if they are different. If
    you can do that, honestly, then \u201Cit\u201D wasn\u2019t an insult, honestly.
    If you can\u2019t then \u201Cit\u201D also wasn\u2019t an insult, honestly.\r\n\r\nAll
    the best.\r\n\r\nP.S. Mr. or Ms. Typophile, when you accept .pdf files, Email
    me, and I\u2019ll be back. Until then, I\u2019m out of here.\r\n\r\nJohn: I\u2019ve
    no idea. I use Thunderbird for email, and font size is spec\u2019d in pixels.\r\nThen
    I guess I wasn't asking you. :)\r\n\r\nJohn: I certainly don\u2019t recall using
    the phrase \u2018get used to\u2019 about any of these things, \r\nNo, you said
    something like \"a new aeshetic\" has been forced, same thing.\r\n\r\nJohn: On
    the subject of \u2018density\u2019, I\u2019m still not sure what you are talking
    about Sorry to be slow, but can you explain?\r\n\r\nThat's not slow john, it's
    a....stationary. \"(I don\u2019t have a typographic term for it, because no one
    else has decided on cramming more \u201Cpoints\u201D into an inch, what do you
    call this?)\"\r\n\r\nIs that not clear?"
  created: '2006-06-22 23:05:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>No, you said something like \u201Ca new aeshetic\u201D has been forced,
    same thing.</em>\r\n\r\nNope. I don't think I said that either. What I do remember
    saying, and what one can find me saying if one bothers to search, is that the
    MS ClearType Font Collection represents the approaches of several different type
    designers to the briefing to design fonts specifically to work with ClearType.
    I also said that I didn't consider any of them to be the last word on the subject.\r\n\r\n<em>(I
    don\u2019t have a typographic term for it, because no one else has decided on
    cramming more \u201Cpoints\u201D into an inch, what do you call this?</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    I got that, I'm just wondering to what specific action of Microsoft's you are
    referring, i.e. what did they do and when?\r\n\r\nYou wrote above that you know
    your 10pt Concert on the Mac is within half a pixel of actual 10pt size, but I'm
    not sure how important that is. But maybe that's just because I've spent almost
    my whole computing life on Windows machines. I tend to think of point size as
    a specification for size of type on paper, and I have long since ceased to expect
    text on screen to be 1:1 size with type on paper when both are e.g. nominally
    10pt. A half pixel rounding difference at 10pt is also a variation between screen
    and print.\r\n\r\nI was pleased to see my email app specifying screen text sizes
    in pixels and allowing me to set my display resolution, i.e. to see an application
    from which I am almost never going to print anything treat type as a screen medium
    and not make any reference to point size. This is much preferable to the many
    applications that force an integer point size choice that skips the ppem size
    I actually want to use. But lack of support for fractional point sizes is another
    issue..."
  created: '2006-06-23 02:05:21'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: 'Ouch! I have to remember not to check this thread again. '
  created: '2006-06-23 02:11:30'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: lol ditto. my poor thread :(
  created: '2006-06-23 06:43:05'
- author:
    name: JonnySchneider
  body: "Sans: Tahoma 10pt.\r\nSerif: Georgia 9pt.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-23 07:00:15'
- author:
    name: Ivo
    picture: 128123
  body: 'AppleGothic, 11pt. '
  created: '2006-06-23 07:20:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I actually learned a lot from the \"interaction\" about ClearType and screen
    rendering cross-platform (once I learned to overlook the vitriolic nature of the
    discussion).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-23 13:42:33'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: We'd better care about screen rendering. I find immersive/continuous screen
    reading nearly impossible. I prefer to copy text, change the font and size, then
    print on a laser. Display technology will surely improve but it's a moving target.
    What works well today may not work so well in a couple of years.
  created: '2006-06-23 14:05:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I agree with Chris about the value of the discussion. \r\n\r\nI don't understand
    that much of it, but David Berlow (Font Bureau), Mike Duggan (Microsoft) and John
    Hudson (Tiro) are some of the most knowledgeable people in the world on these
    issues, so I'm very happy they are discussing them on Typophile, and giving the
    rest of us a peak into these issues. \r\n\r\nSomething about e-mail just brings
    out irritation--not that I would know anything about that :) \r\n\r\nDavid, you
    can post PDFs now at the beginning of a thread that you start. And once you start
    the thread you can later in the discussion also add new PDFs in your first post.
    (This is now done over in the critique section.) You can also post to your own
    site and provide a link. \r\n\r\nThe difficulty of posting PDFs is an annoying
    limitation of the current edition of Typophile, but starting your own thread or
    posting a PDF via a link are both ways around it.    "
  created: '2006-06-23 14:27:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t understand that much of it...</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not surprised.
    As far as I can tell, David and Mike are conducting an argument in several different
    places at the same time, so what you've seen here is just a fragment. I wasn't
    expecting to get dumped on for saying what font I like to use for my email."
  created: '2006-06-24 04:46:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Yes, I got that, I\u2019m just wondering to what specific action of Microsoft\u2019s
    you are referring, i.e. what did they do and when?\"\r\n\r\nJohn, You a lawyer
    now too?\r\n\r\nJunderscorepolonine, (j_polo9), I'm Sorry. \r\n\r\n\"I used to
    use Arial (default) and then Helvetica Neue but since it\u2019s bad for copy I\u2019m
    wondering what everyone else uses [...], is that font significant to you for some
    special reason, etc.) Discuss!\"\r\n\r\nWe came out of our bottles and \"discuss\"-ed
    on command. \r\nThe good news is, you still have 2ishes left. ;)"
  created: '2006-06-25 13:16:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, no that wasn't a legal question; not even a legalistic question. You
    raised the very specific subject of Microsoft changing the definition of the number
    of points in an inch, and I'm being perfectly honest in saying that this is news
    to me. It shouldn't be, I'll readily admit, but sometimes things slip by. So I'm
    asking what they did, specifically, and when.\r\n\r\nFeel free to poke fun of
    me for not knowing this -- it is embarassing, believe me --, but please also enlighten
    me."
  created: '2006-06-26 02:06:49'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "lol all i know is that \"For some very old reasons, PCs still only count
    54 points to an inch, whereas the MAC has 72 points.\"\r\n-Stop Stealing Sheep"
  created: '2006-06-26 05:29:33'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Prescript. This is a long post. If you get your type kicks from Jelly bean
    sized nuggets, this might be too much, so it's rated L. \r\n\r\nJohn, MS changed
    the definition of pts. per inch , according to Mr. Greg Hitchcock, in 1986. This
    did not have practical effect 'till MS went to outlines in the '89 TT adoption.
    It began to surface as a global issue in 1992, with the advent of the Internet,
    where the world-wide requirement for scaleable digital outlines became central
    to its rapid spread. It's effect on MS typography, and the Windows font spec for
    developers, began with Verdana, (2000?) where MS demonstrated the wisdom of piecewise
    non-linear scaling (what we call optical scaling), which helped greatly with MS'
    \"other scaling\" issue. The rest, (and I suggest you reread everything I've written
    in this, the CT Spec thread and MS CT collection release thread), is history-in-the-making.
    But, when one says, \"I have to set it differently from the Mac to be the same
    size on the PC\", you're lookin' at its most expensive chapter. When you look
    at the CT fonts, with their 6-8 pt mastering for 10-12 pt use, you're looking
    at a 100 million dollar(?) solution to a problem of MS's own cause. Once you're
    through recalibrating maybe you'll see that identical CT results, (just outlines
    of a slightly different philosophy, and users ***using actual points (1/2 pts.
    too) to select the size They like, usually from 10 or 12 pt masters made for the
    purpose***, and that this is all possible in a 72 pt. per inch Windows environment,
    no tricks...\r\n\r\nI don't know where you've been, actually, Mr. Tom Rickner
    and I have had conversations for, 15 years (?), trying to improve screen fonts
    on Windows (though we didn't much use Windows, we're conscientious to a degree...
    that, well it's an unexplainable Wisconsin thing). Those conversations all end
    with, \"oh dang, you can't do that 'cause windows doesn't know point size from...ppppft\".
    Ask 'im, he'll tell you, it goes just like that... So, the only two options I've
    \"seen\" are to get variations adopted, (and I know now, even though such an axis-of-e-swell's
    already been created once, if points are a problem to understand, a variation
    axis with values along it where.... \"what this font Should look like @ a particular
    point size and resolution\" are  occurring, as maybe way beyond discussing.\r\n\r\nThe
    other solution, cajolery, I stopped trying after Prague atypi when the aforementioned
    Mr. Hitchcock, in the presence of Mr. Rickner, told me MS WAS using 72 points
    per inch in Longhorn. Maybe he meant it like a 6'2\" person standing on a 12\"
    box saying \"I'm 7'2\", I swear!\", maybe HE doesn't understand that scaling the
    reported device resolution IS scaling points per inch. Maybe, he thought I said
    points per jinx, or lynx or prawns per finch. Who knows, but when \"the white
    knight is talking backwards\", well, Drastic methods, yawn, are called for...Slow
    Motion Public Discussion. IT matters, because \u2014 although the EM can be scaled
    linearly, because type does not fundamentally scale linearly, if you require it
    to do so for optimization of a Particular Thing in a particular range, you do
    so at the peril of other functionality \u2014 And, I told him so. \r\n\r\nSo,
    while I would be thrilled to see Constantia being used for both the print and
    electronic versions of a publication, I would not recommend it. And, until recently,
    it has not been possible to use the same typefaces in print and electronic media
    without compromising either the readability or the attractiveness of one or the
    other, and I think, aside from the kind of clients mentioned above, that still
    goes. I've been through servicing the whole spectrum of this issue, from fonts
    that are smaller than those on windows, to fonts bigger than those that windows
    can host, and I'm not saying that the CT font collection is not great! It is!
    And, I'm not saying to make optimized text fonts for Windows is a bad idea. And,
    I'm not saying that if you want to make optimized text fonts for Windows screens
    you should \"have to\" make optimized Display fonts for Windows screens too, or
    that you should be forced to make fonts optimized for print text, or print display.
    I'm asking  \u2014 you guys have dug yourselves into this rabbit hole and you
    don't even know it?\r\n\r\nWe Latin folk, we don't even have the smallest x-ht-like-thingy,
    (or the most complex demand for optical scaling!). And, the way things are now,
    you can't make an optimized Latin screen font for Mac & Windows without a huge
    amount of BS, (if it is even possible?). You can't make a single master for web
    site text and print text on a single platform unless one or the other 1/2 of your
    client is a typopottiehead, and it goes on from there ad infinitum typonautica
    sans progresso until scaleable outlines are allowed to do what they were designed
    to do in the very first place, \"know thyne own point size at all times.\" Then
    there is my fall fall fall fall fall fall back position, my Dunkirk, if you will
    as you may now understand things, which is to get MS to make one truly comprehensive
    mother-of-all type tuners for Windows users, ideally, without a variable for Points
    Per Inch, anywhere, but...\r\n\r\n*I do not wander around some infinitely complex
    typographic universe thinking this s__t up. I am building a screen font family
    (1997-pres.), along the lines of people's uses (formal, casual, harried, etc.),
    as opposed to along the lines for print text, (e.g. Ro. It. Bo. and B.I.), and
    it came time to sizing the whole thing to the em. When I was finished doing exactly
    what I wanted, the font was too small to compete on the Mac, (don't ask why I
    thought I'd put in swashes). So I made it Bigger. What this means in greater detail,
    is that I raised the caps on the em, giving less room for ascenders and other
    stuff above that I did really want, and I boosted the l.c. up essentially to my
    font Concert's height. Then, I looked around and found it WAS STILL TINY, compared
    to Verdana...Enter Concert. \r\n"
  created: '2006-06-27 18:07:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, thank you so, so much for taking the time to write that. It helps
    a heck of a lot to have things spelled out in so straight forward a way.\r\n\r\nLet
    me ponder on it.\r\n\r\nAre you coming to Lisbon?"
  created: '2006-06-28 03:27:21'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Are you coming to Lisbon?\"\r\n\r\nAn interesting question I wish I knew
    the answer to myself..."
  created: '2006-06-28 21:29:03'
date: '2006-06-10 20:30:05'
title: What font do you use for your default email messages?

---
