---
author:
  name: AzizMostafa
  picture: 111536
body: "Peace be on All Friends,\r\nIn VOLT, Marks Positioning is carried out Independently
  for each letter and for each component of every ligature?!\r\nSo, to avoid the Collision
  of Marks with Marks and/or Letters in Arabic Fonts:\r\n1 The thinest letter or ligature
  should be at least a bit wider than the widest mark. Just like asking 3 cowboys
  to stand side by side without allowing their Hats to collide. And this can be done
  at the expense of Beauty.\r\n2 Marks should be horizontally centered on top of or
  below each letter and each component of every ligature. And this is not always possible
  even if Beauty is sacrificed.\r\nSamples speak louder than words?!\r\nDaringly\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ATypeset_3857.JPG]"
comments:
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "You can always do mark positioning in context of neighbor glyphs. So you
    can move marks higer if there are marks over other letters that can cause collision.\r\n\r\nDealing
    with ligatures is essentially the same, but may be tricky, though. OpenType model
    can not distinguish between mark over one or another component, except for mark-to-liga
    attachments. For example, for sequence of ligature and mark, lookup can say that
    something should happen only if mark is logically attached to the first component.
    There could be workaround for that, for example having separate glyphs for mark
    over first second etc. component.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey"
  created: '2006-06-13 19:27:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>You can always do mark positioning in context of neighbor glyphs. So
    you can move marks higer if there are marks over other letters that can cause
    collision.</em>\r\n\r\nIn addition to this, I have also contextually inserted
    a very narrow joining stroke between two letters when I need to accomodate a mark
    that might otherwise collide with an adjoining letter. This is appropriate in
    more linear designs, rather than in the kind of calligraphic design shown in the
    illustration. Calligraphy has its own rules for mark size and positioning."
  created: '2006-06-13 20:24:30'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Sergey says:\r\nYou can always do mark positioning in context of neighbor
    glyphs.So you can move marks higher if there are marks over other letters that
    can cause collision.\r\n\r\nSay:\r\n.. Higher and higher till I get all Marks
    on the same level (Mac it).\r\nFor the best mark positioning you can ever get
    with a ligature-free font, see this:\r\nhttp://www.nonosoft.jifisa.net/download.php\r\nTry
    Volting it!\r\n\r\nSergey continues:\r\nDealing with ligatures is essentially
    the same, but may be tricky, though. OpenType model can not distinguish between
    mark over one or another component, except for mark-to-liga attachments.\r\nFor
    example, for sequence of ligature and mark, lookup can say that something should
    happen only if mark is logically attached to the first component. There could
    be work around for that, for example having separate glyphs for mark over first,
    second etc. component.\r\n\r\nSay:\r\nEasier said than done!\r\nJust tell me please
    where to position what out of hundreds \u2014 not to say thousands \u2014 of marks:\r\nhttp://qurankareem.info/a/OthmanyFonts.zip\r\nhttp://qurankareem.info/a/othmanyQuran.zip\r\nThis
    will make the brain of an octopus-minded to work overtime to work around Independently
    up and down, across and back, diagonally in 4 direction so that Marks wont collide.\r\n________________________________\r\nHappy
    Exploring"
  created: '2006-06-13 20:54:33'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "<cite>Easier said than done!</cite>\r\n\r\nWho said this will be easy?! Of
    course Arabic typography requires very complex font logic, but it is definitely
    doable with OpenType layout.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey"
  created: '2006-06-14 01:06:08'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">but it is definitely doable with OpenType layout.\r\n\r\nreminds me of the
    old saying \"fonts are hard... lets go shopping\" ;-)"
  created: '2006-06-14 02:02:47'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "John Hudson says:\r\n... I have also contextually inserted a very narrow
    joining stroke between two letters when I need to accommodate a mark that might
    otherwise collide with an adjoining letter. This is appropriate in more linear
    designs, rather than in the kind of calligraphic design shown in the illustration.
    \r\n\r\nSay:\r\nAfter All the Automation and Volting, I have to do a manual Adjustment?!
    That what I did in Windows 3.11. In addition to this,  I had also contextually
    inserted a very narrow joining Space when I needed to accommodate a mark that
    might otherwise collide with a final letter. \r\n\r\nThis was appropriate in more
    linear designs and in the kind of calligraphic design shown in the illustration,
    too."
  created: '2006-06-14 03:43:59'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Sergey says:\r\nWho said this will be easy?! Of course Arabic typography
    requires very complex font logic, but it is definitely doable with OpenType layout.\r\n\r\nSay:\r\nEasier
    done with Fontgraph 3.5 on windows 3.11.\r\nGo back and re-explore!"
  created: '2006-06-14 04:17:08'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "I don't understand - are you asking for help? do you like to work with VOLT?
    or you can do it without VOLT, and even better? If yes - great, but why the 'negative'*
    ? You don't have to use it. \r\n\r\n\r\n[* a lot of negative  here lately; negative
    season?]"
  created: '2006-06-14 20:33:00'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Thanks for your Positive Feedback David\r\nMy \"Uncompromisng Arabic Font\"
    was done without VOLT.\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19348\r\nHowever, I am looking
    forward to transforming my (5+1) fonts into a single OTF.\r\nBut it seems that
    Volt does not help?! Is there a better Alternative?\r\nThank you once again."
  created: '2006-06-14 20:49:53'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "You're welcome Aziz.\r\n\r\nI need a lifeguard to go through that thread
    \ (typophile.com/node/19348)\r\nSo, if we keep it simple (but no simpler):  you
    want a single OpenType? You can't do it with VOLT (+ hard work) ? Why not?"
  created: '2006-06-14 21:56:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I get the impression that this is really just an excuse to vent on VOLT,
    and there''s nothing wrong with that. However, Sergey & John took the question
    seriously and shouldn''t be harshed for trying to offer some advice. Falling into
    the same trap I might suggest that the power users of VOLT do a lot of the number
    crunching outside of VOLT (eg in Excel and perl based tools), and import the source
    tables into VOLT for compilation - that''s apparently the best approach on complex
    jobs.  '
  created: '2006-06-15 00:12:39'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: "hello there!!\r\n \r\nI am a new VOLT user and Im facing a problem that might
    seem silly to you. but i wish u can help me with this: \"im working on an Arabic
    open type font designed by font lab, when Im opening the font from VOLT toolbar
    or File/open menu, im not being able to view the glyphs, what I see i empty boxes
    with ID numbers. while when i open a font like \"times new romans\" lets say,
    i can see the letters in the edit glyphs window. so please can you help me figure
    out how to import a new font and be able to see the font in the edit glyph window.\r\n
    \r\ni wish what i said makes sense to you.\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2006-06-15 08:49:01'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>when Im opening the font from VOLT toolbar or File/open menu, im not
    being able to view the glyphs</em>\r\n\r\nIs the font [[TrueType]] ?"
  created: '2006-06-15 13:29:59'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I think Miguel is correct - the font is likely an OpenType CFF font, needs
    to be TrueType. Reason for this is that VOLT uses its own inbuilt rasterizer (TTF)
    rather than the system rasterizers. '
  created: '2006-06-15 15:11:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>After All the Automation and Volting, I have to do a manual Adjustment?!</em>\r\n\r\nNo
    no no, I mean I have automatic contextual insertion of a narrow connecting stroke
    within the VOLT lookups."
  created: '2006-06-15 18:58:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Here is an example, using the Adobe Arabic font created with VOLT. The insertion
    of the narrow connecting stroke is done automatically, as a GSUB type 2 lookup,
    based on the context of the mark following the alif.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ylylin_6167.gif]"
  created: '2006-06-15 19:16:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: By the way, I don't think that OpenType is the <em>best</em> way to handle
    Arabic text. There are, for instance, good arguments for layout systems that treat
    diacritic marks as a separate layer applied after word formation. Contextual mark
    positioning and spacing adjustment is the most difficult and cumbersome aspect
    of Arabic OpenType, especially if one wants refinement. The benefit of OpenType
    is in its wide support and adaptability. If you have a different solution that
    works for your needs -- even if it only works in one application and requires
    macros --, is there a need to make an OpenType version?
  created: '2006-06-15 19:24:25'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Thanks John for your input.\r\nThough the example given does not occur in
    Arabic, I do understand what you mean. Any how, if it is applied to the last word
    in the first sample (on the left), it will be spoilt?\r\nHow if a word ends with
    R+TaMarbota and the Tanween of TaMarbota collides with R?\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-15 19:29:04'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> There are, for instance, good arguments for layout systems that treat diacritic
    marks as a separate layer applied after word formation.\r\n\r\nSuch as? "
  created: '2006-06-15 19:29:37'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "John Hudson says:\r\nBy the way, I don\u2019t think that OpenType is the
    best way to handle Arabic text.\r\n\r\nSay:\r\nOpenType is the best way to handle
    marks-free Arabic text?\r\nSo, let us concentrate on Ligatures.\r\nIn ArabicTypesetting,
    a number of 2&3-component ligatures were built.\r\nIn Nafees Naskh of http://www.crulp.org,
    instead, all the possible shapes of characters to form  ligatures were built \u2014
    save LamAlif of course.\r\nWhich approach do you see better and Why?"
  created: '2006-06-15 20:35:50'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Back at the service of Friends,\r\nHere are 2 lines of the same Arabic Text
    using ArabicTypesetting OTF:\r\nthe lower is marked and the upper is marks-free.\r\n\r\nBy
    comparison, one can easily see:\r\nThe left significant word in the lower line
    is a bit longer than the above due to the narrow stroke between its first and
    second letters, as mentioned by John Hudson .\r\nThe 2 Middle words in each line
    have the same shape irrespective of Marks.\r\nThe 3 words on the right of the
    lower line are not ligatured as above. In other words. Marks spoilt the ligatures.\r\n\r\nWhy
    this Inconsistent Behaviour?!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AType2_3872.JPG]"
  created: '2006-06-16 17:03:06'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "John Hudson says:\r\nThere are, for instance, good arguments for layout systems
    that treat diacritic marks as a separate layer applied after word formation. \r\n...\r\nIf
    you have a different solution that works for your needs \u2014 even if it only
    works in one application and requires macros \u2014, is there a need to make an
    OpenType version?\r\n\r\nSay: \r\nYes. There is a need to make an OpenType version
    to benefit from the OpenType wide support and adaptability to long documents not
    a couple of lines that can be fantastically handled in a number of applications
    by creating 2 layers: one for letters and the other for marks!\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-16 19:38:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>How if a word ends with R+TaMarbota and the Tanween of TaMarbota collides
    with R</em>\r\n\r\nThere are two ways to deal with this kind of collision. I believe
    the more traditional technique is to contextually lower the Tanween so that it
    no longer collides with the R. Another technique is to introduce a contextually
    sensitive kerning adjustment between the R and the TaMarbota when the latter is
    followed by a below mark. I think the decision which method to use depends very
    much on the type design. In a very modern, linear design one might want to make
    the heights of marks quite regular and not raise or lower them contextually, so
    in that case the kerning option might be best. In a traditional naskh design,
    though, one might want to preserve the letter relationships and allow the marks
    to move as necessary; this better emulates the scribal approach."
  created: '2006-06-16 20:03:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>So, let us concentrate on Ligatures.\r\nIn ArabicTypesetting, a number
    of 2&3-component ligatures were built.\r\nIn Nafees Naskh of http://www.crulp.org,
    instead, all the possible shapes of characters to form ligatures were built \u2014
    save LamAlif of course.\r\nWhich approach do you see better and Why?</em>\r\n\r\nAlthough
    every Arabic font I have worked on to date has involved ligature glyphs for one
    reason or another, I actually think that the better approach is not to use ligatures,
    but instead to have component stroke shapes which are contextually substituted
    to produce the correct forms. This technique is much more adaptable and efficient.
    Consider, for example, Monotype Nastaliq, which had up to 22,000 ligature glyphs
    -- some for entire words -- in its late metal and final phototype versions, but
    which has recently been remade in OpenType using only a small fraction of that
    number of glyphs.\r\n\r\nI'm aware of some fonts that even use component strokes
    to create the lam_alif sequence, i.e. that do not contain any ligatures at all."
  created: '2006-06-16 20:08:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nTom Milo's DecoType Arabic layout system uses a layering approach
    which follows the way in which calligraphers construct a word. First the 'archigraphemes'
    of the letters are written; these are the letters, correctly formed, but without
    any marks at all, not even the distinguishing dots. Then the dots are written
    relative to the letterforms and taking into account context of nearby strokes.
    Then vowels are written relative to both letterforms and dots. If I remember correctly,
    Tom breaks the system down into about seven different layers, based on classification
    of marks. Also, marks in the system are not of fixed size, but may be longer or
    shorter depending on context, as found in calligraphy.\r\n\r\nAlthough all my
    own Arabic work has been in OpenType, I'm pretty convinced that only an approach
    like Tom's can result in optimal mark positioning. The downside of such a system
    is that it tends to be very slow: not something you would want to use for, e.g.
    e-mail. But in the context of book production, it is the best thing available."
  created: '2006-06-16 20:17:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The left significant word in the lower line is a bit longer than the
    above due to the narrow stroke between its first and second letters, as mentioned
    by John Hudson.</em>\r\n\r\nIn this case, I believe the method is not an inserted
    narrow stroke but a variant form of the K, but yes the result is the same.\r\n\r\n<em>The
    3 words on the right of the lower line are not ligatured as above. In other words.
    Marks spoilt the ligatures.</em>\r\n\r\nThis font contains two different kinds
    of ligature lookups. Some ligatures are allowed to form even when marks are involved
    in the sequence (in VOLT, they are set to process NONE of the mark glyphs), and
    some ligatures are inhibited from forming when marks are involved (in VOLT, they
    are set to process ALL mark glyphs). This is a design decision. In the Arabic
    Typsetting font, Mamoun Sakkal decided to prevent ligatures involving vertical
    stacking from forming when marks are applied, because in these situations it is
    sometimes confusing, even for the reader, to know to which letter in the ligature
    a mark is applied.\r\n\r\nI use the same method when dealing with the initial
    lam_mim sequence, in which the mim portion of the ligature ends up to the right
    of the lam, which phonetically precedes it. So if the lam takes a mark, I prevent
    this ligature from forming because it is too easy to be confused about which letter
    is taking the mark.\r\n\r\nOf course, if one is seeking to emulate the traditional
    naskh style including its mark positioning, then one probably doesn't want to
    inhibit ligation in these circumstances. But then one is also presuming a level
    of readership that is quite high."
  created: '2006-06-16 20:27:53'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: Thanks John. Just read his paper (20th International Unicode conference)
  created: '2006-06-16 20:45:49'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Thanks John,\r\n...... Monotype Nastaliq has recently been remade in OpenType
    using only a small fraction of that number of glyphs.\r\nHow Lucky! No Bites (Marks)\r\n\r\nTom
    Milo\u2019s DecoType Arabic layout system..... it is the best thing available.\r\nKelk2000
    has no match:\r\nhttp://www.kelk.ws\r\nAppreciatively, "
  created: '2006-06-16 21:18:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I wasn't familiar with the Kelk2000 stuff. Thank you fr the link.\r\n\r\nIt
    isn't clear, though, from the limited English information available on the website
    whether the results of this system are live text. There is talk about creating
    'artwork', which looks very impressive (reminds me of Tom's 'Make Calligraphy'
    plug-in for MS Office 2000), but does it remain live (Unicode?) searchable and
    editable text? That is really key in the context of crossmedia publishing, which
    is obviously becoming more and more important."
  created: '2006-06-17 03:19:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'By the way, at the Unicode conference in California in March Tom showed a
    demo of the stuff he has been working on with Winsoft as a plug-in for the Middle
    East version of InDesign CS3. It works a little like a CJK input method: you type
    a word in Unicode and are presented with all the valid options for writing that
    word according to the rules of the script style you are using, and you select
    the one you want. Very impressive.'
  created: '2006-06-17 03:21:56'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "John On behalf of Tom & WinSoft:\r\nYou type a word in Unicode and are presented
    with all the valid options for writing that word according to the rules of the
    script style you are using, and you select the one you want. Very impressive.\r\n\r\nSay:
    That is exactly what Kelk2000 does.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kelk1_4648.JPG]"
  created: '2006-06-17 09:22:21'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "John Hudson  says:\r\nIn the Arabic Typesetting font, Mamoun Sakkal decided
    to prevent ligatures involving vertical stacking from forming when marks are applied,
    because in these situations it is sometimes confusing, even for the reader, to
    know to which letter in the ligature a mark is applied.\r\nI use the same method
    when dealing with the initial lam_mim sequence, in which the mim portion of the
    ligature ends up to the right of the lam, which phonetically precedes it. So if
    the lam takes a mark, I prevent this ligature from forming because it is too easy
    to be confused about which letter is taking the mark.\r\n\r\nSorry to say: Unsuccessful
    Decision!\r\nSave in the Lam_mim sequence, sacrificing ligatures elsewhere was
    not justifiable! \r\nArab eyes do snap Marks on ligatures to their corresponding
    components: \r\nThe right and left significant marks are respectively snapped
    to the right and left components and the middles to the middles.\r\nAnd this is
    intuitive to the non-Arab eyes too.\r\n\r\nWorse is the shifting up of the beginning
    of words like the marked one here. The arm of the second letter appears higher
    than Alif?!\r\nWish the unmarked shape were maintained.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AType3_5515.JPG]"
  created: '2006-06-17 09:24:06'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "How if a word ends with R+TaMarbota and the Tanween of TaMarbota collides
    with R? (Right)\r\n\r\nJohn says:\r\n... I believe the more traditional technique
    is to contextually lower the Tanween so that it no longer collides with the R.
    (Middle)\r\nSay: This wont Only look odd but will transgress the lower line (Win-Descent)
    also.\r\n\r\nJohn says:\r\n.. Another technique is to introduce a contextually
    sensitive kerning adjustment between the R and the TaMarbota when the latter is
    followed by a below mark. (Left)\r\nSay: This is the Only possible solution unfortunately
    not applied in the said OTF.\r\n\r\nJohn says:\r\n... In a very modern, linear
    design one might want to make the heights of marks quite regular and not raise
    or lower them contextually...\r\nSay: No way!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AType4_6011.JPG]"
  created: '2006-06-17 11:19:33'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "My last posting has changed alot.\r\nPlease check it before replying.\r\nThanking
    you and Apologizing for the inconvenience.\r\nHappy Postings\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-17 13:00:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Sorry to say: Unsuccessful Decision!\r\nSave in the Lam_mim sequence,
    sacrificing ligatures elsewhere was not justifiable!\r\nArab eyes do snap Marks
    on ligatures to their corresponding components:\r\nThe right and left significant
    marks are respectively snapped to the right and left components and the middles
    to the middles.\r\nAnd this is intuitive to the non-Arab eyes too.</em>\r\n\r\nSince
    I wasn't responsible for the font in question (at least, not for the Arabic part
    of it), I don't want to second guess the reasons for the ligature decisions. I'll
    just note that, obviously, Mamoun Sakkal has 'Arab eyes', and he made these decisions.\r\n\r\n<em>Worse
    is the shifting up of the beginning of words like the marked one here. The arm
    of the second letter appears higher than Alif?!\r\nWish the unmarked shape were
    maintained.</em>\r\n\r\nI agree that this looks quite unhappy."
  created: '2006-06-17 23:38:13'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Thanks John for your understanding and tolerance.\r\nIn the said font, no
    mid-word ligatures were included. Obviously, there was no difficulty in that and
    words like the alif-lamed here would look as happy as their sisters.\r\nWas that
    up to the Decision-Maker also?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AType5_6419.JPG]"
  created: '2006-06-20 19:47:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Yes. Decisions about what glyphs are font contains and how they work are
    the decisions of the designer.\r\n\r\nIn most Arabic fonts I have worked with,
    ligatures tend to be limited to a few isolated sequences, a few initial sequences,
    and generally more final sequences. But there is no reason why a font could not
    contain medial ligatures.\r\n\r\nThe issue that one runs into, though, is deciding
    which ligatures take preference. This is another reason why I favour a non-ligature
    approach, which is more flexible and is not constrained by choices about what
    ligatures to include and which take precedence."
  created: '2006-06-21 03:32:10'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> But there is no reason why a font could not contain medial ligatures.\r\nHow
    wonderful the font will look like then!\r\nMedial ligatures make words shorter
    (less horizontal) and more comfortable to the eyes ( for Arabs and non-Arabs):\r\n\r\n>
    The issue that one runs into, though, is deciding which ligatures take preference.\r\nThis
    should not be an issue as the priority is given to 2 middle shapes: Meem then
    to the sea-horse (Jeem and likewise).\r\n\r\n> ...  This is another reason why
    I favour a non-ligature approach ....\r\nA better approach is a combination of
    the 2: 3&4-component ligatures and stroke shapes to produce 2-component ligatures.\r\n\r\nYours
    for Beautiful Arabic Faces, John\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-21 05:09:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Medial ligatures make words shorter (less horizontal) and more comfortable
    to the eyes ( for Arabs and non-Arabs)</em>\r\n\r\nLess horizontal, of course,
    usually means more vertical, and this <em>may</em> have been a factor in the decision
    not to employ medial ligatures in the Arabic Typesetting font. This font is mainly
    going to be used in an application like MS Word, by users who are used to employing
    fonts using the default linespacing. In such a situation, having word forms growing
    tall through use of medial ligatures could cause problems with parts of letters
    being clipped as they extend beyond the font's WinAscent setting. Obviously in
    fonts designed primarily for use by experienced typographers such as yourself,
    or in professional page layout applications, this would be less of a concern."
  created: '2006-06-21 05:34:58'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> Less horizontal, of course, usually means more vertical\r\nWhat makes you
    jump to this wrong conclusion?\r\nSimply avoid Ligatures with the tall Ta&Za and
    Kaf and you are done!\r\nYours with <a href=\"http://www.crAUSwords.com/flowers/WFlowers.htm\">Flowers</a>\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-21 06:21:46'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> ... and this may have been a factor in the decision not to employ medial
    ligatures in the Arabic Typesetting font... In such a situation, having word forms
    growing tall through use of medial ligatures could cause problems with parts of
    letters being clipped as they extend beyond the font\u2019s WinAscent setting.\r\n\r\nAnother
    Guess?\r\nThe raised letter forms in the said font speak louder than ligatures?!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AType3_6212.JPG]"
  created: '2006-06-21 07:03:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'I was looking at your earlier example of the dad_jeem ligature, and thinking
    that if you maintained that if the lam were raised to connect to the dad in its
    ligated form, the overall height would be very tall: taller even than the raised
    letter example you show here.'
  created: '2006-06-21 08:17:46'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "In the case of Lam+Dad+jeem, the lam should be a little bit lowered and its
    lower end curved to shoulder Dad...\r\nMore importantly, the Dad+jeem should not
    be in that height and thickness...\r\nAccurate Calculation counts?!"
  created: '2006-06-21 18:54:34'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "So far, Marks and Ligatures have been covered, but kerning was out of discussion.\r\nSampling
    3 words in the ArabicTypesetting font created by John Hudson with VOLT, see how
    the kerning between (Z+Alif) and (R+3ain) has shortened and beautified the middle
    word. But no kerning took place between (R+Alif) in the left word nor between
    (R+3ain) in the right one...\r\nWhy does kerning work in some places and does
    not work for the very couple(s) elsewhere? Was the fault in VOLT? Or elsewhere?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AType6_4467.JPG]"
  created: '2006-06-22 19:45:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Aziz, I did not create the Arabic Typesetting font: I only designed the Latin
    portion of the typeface. Mamoun Sakkal designed the Arabic, beginning with an
    initial idea from Paul Nelson, and Mamoun also did the VOLT work for the font.\r\n\r\nI
    think the kerning problem you are seeing must be due to the Arabic Typesetting
    kerning being implemented as a width adjustment on the first glyph, which is how
    GPOS kerning is properly implemented for <em>left-to-right</em> scripts. When
    this font was made, no one had figured out that right-to-left kerning needs to
    be implemented differently -- as equivalent width and positioning adjustments
    to the second glyph --; I presume this will be fixed in the next version of this
    font. [Microsoft may be concerned about backwards compatibility and text reflow
    in existing documents, but this kerning problem is so bad that I think such concerns
    should be ignored.]\r\n\r\nIf right-to-left kerning is implemented in the same
    way as left-to-right, only every second pair of glyphs gets kerned, and this is
    what you are seeing in your test. If you were to add another character before
    the sequence \u0632\u0631\u0639 then you would see the kerning suddently applied
    between \u0631\u0639. You see this in the graphic below. The second line shows
    the Adobe Arabic font, in which the kerning has been applied to the second glyph
    in the lookups, and the spacing is consistent regardless of the number of glyphs
    in the run.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ataakern_4689.gif]\r\n\r\n[Note
    that if one uses the kern2volt tool to convert a FontLab generated kern table
    to GPOS kerning in VOLT, the tool has an -RTL option that will correctly define
    the lookups for right-to-left scripts. You will need separate kern table sources
    for RTL and LTR kerning though.]"
  created: '2006-06-23 01:19:50'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Thanks John for your elaborated answer.\r\n> If you were to add another character
    before the sequence \u0632\u0631\u0639 then you would see the kerning suddently
    applied between \u0631\u0639. \r\n\r\nSay: True only if R is added. Or a zero-width
    non-joiner!\r\nThe 2nd word from the left in my very first sample says otherwise...\r\n\r\nAnd
    from your samples, It seems that both Adobe and Mircosoft confused Arabic with
    English Kerning!\r\n\r\nHope you will find my previous postings useful:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19609\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19348\r\n\r\n>
    .. Mamoun Sakkal designed the Arabic.. and Mamoun also did the VOLT work..\r\nSay:
    I\u2019ll just note that, obviously, Mamoun Sakkal has \u2018Arab eyes.."
  created: '2006-06-23 19:29:26'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: I want to ask you all, how did you learn VOLT? Does anyone of you has a manual
    for it?
  created: '2006-06-29 14:49:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I learned VOLT by using it and by pestering Paul Nelson and Sergey Malkin
    at Microsoft. I had the advantage that I was developing fonts for them so they
    were obliged to answer my questions. :)\r\n\r\nThere isn't a really good VOLT
    manual or tutorial out there, although what is available is still quite helpful
    if mixed with experiment and trawling in the archives of the VOLT user community
    on MSN. I'd be interested in writing a proper VOLT manual if I had time and someone
    were to pay me.\r\n\r\nIn the meantime, I suggest looking at these links:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/developers/volt/default.htm\r\nhttp://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&item_id=VOLT_Tutorial\r\n\r\nthen
    go to the MSN VOLT community site:\r\n\r\nhttp://groups.msn.com/MicrosoftVOLTuserscommunity\r\n\r\nand
    look through the message archives for the release notes for individual updates
    or search for specific topics."
  created: '2006-06-30 07:24:26'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: thank you john, it was nice of you to reply to my questions. but i still need
    to know how much time (approximtely) it took you to learn volt? and did you face
    lots of difficulties? Actually the font that im working on is Arabic and it is
    a very specialized language with lots of glyphs..
  created: '2006-06-30 14:44:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "VOLT for Arabic is not very complicated -- not compared to, say, Devanagari,
    which I'm working on at the moment. The basic GSUB shaping features -- init, medi,
    fina (isol is optional, basically only necessary if you want to perform contextual
    heh shaping) -- are very straight forward, as are the ligature substitutions.
    Things are trickier if you start getting into contextual substitutions, e.g. if
    you have different glyph forms that you want to employ in different situations,
    but even then you just need to keep track of your contexts.\r\n\r\nGPOS mark positioning
    is probably the most difficult thing you'll need to learn for Arabic, and is mainly
    tricky because the interface might not be intuitive at first. Read the tutorials
    carefully.\r\n\r\nVOLT isn't a massive program -- it does some specific tasks
    for OpenType Layout development -- so there isn't very much to learn in terms
    of interface. The thing that takes time is figuring out the best way to do things
    for different scripts, and also learning what expectations shaping engines have
    for those scripts."
  created: '2006-07-01 02:25:30'
- author:
    name: alviamjad
  body: "I am new to this Forum, thanks to Aziz for providing this link.\r\n\r\nI
    have also developed a Quranic Naskh Font, where i faced almost similar problems
    just like faced by Mr. Aziz.\r\n\r\nI want to share my ligature part of font.
    I organized the shapes to change with the proceeding or before character to work
    like a ligature. i.e the fist image shows three shapes where meem_mid, ta_ini
    and ya_before_noon changes its shape accordingly with the proceeding characters.
    So, I belieive we don't need to have ligature in our font just to focus on perfect
    shapes. If we do so, we can easily handle the positioning of marks on ligatures.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-01 08:21:40'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Welcome Alviamjad with <a href=\"http://www.crAUSwords.com/flowers/WFlowers.htm\">Flowers</a>\r\nPlease
    Alviamjad, do me a favor:\r\n1. replace your first inserted image with a smaller
    one.\r\n2. replace your second inserted image with an attached file instead.\r\nMany
    Thanks for your understanding."
  created: '2006-07-01 09:51:34'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Alviamjad says:\r\nSo, I believe we don\u2019t need to have ligature in our
    font just to focus on perfect shapes. If we do so, we can easily handle the positioning
    of marks on ligatures.\r\n\r\nAm I right to say:\r\nVOLT is so passive that it
    trades off Marks with Ligatures?!\r\n______________________\r\nJohn Hudson  says:\r\nVOLT
    isn\u2019t a massive program \u2014 it does some specific tasks for OpenType Layout
    development \u2014 so there isn\u2019t very much to learn in terms of interface.
    The thing that takes time is figuring out the best way to do things for different
    scripts, and also learning what expectations shaping engines have for those scripts.\r\n\r\nJust
    a question:\r\nIs it possible to make 2 marks go with a single letter as shown
    here?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AType8_6675.JPG]"
  created: '2006-07-01 11:06:02'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "This is just to notice that the previous posting has been modified.\r\nWith
    Compliments and Apologies"
  created: '2006-07-02 19:39:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Is it possible to make 2 marks go with a single letter as shown here?</em>\r\n\r\nYes,*
    although what your image shows would normally be two different kinds of lookups.\r\n\r\nIn
    the first word, with the damma above the fatha on the initial mim, this would
    be handled as an above mark-to-mark positioning. So the fatha would be positioned
    relative to the mim, and the damma would be positioned relative to the fatha.\r\n\r\nIn
    the second word, both the shadda and the kasra are positioned relative to the
    letter, the medial qaf, using two separate anchor attachments, one above and one
    below.\r\n\r\nTo render the second word, it is also possible to write the kasra
    directly below the shadda, with both marks above the letter. In this case, one
    would perform a mark ligation using the ccmp feature. This is a decision of the
    font developer.\r\n\r\nNote that above mark-to-mark and below mark-to-mark positioning
    should be defined in separate lookups, with the above mark-to-mark lookup set
    to ignore below marks and vice versa. This ensures that mark-to-mark positioning
    occurs even when, e.g. two above marks are separated in the character sequence
    by an interverning below mark.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arabmkmk_6170.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\n*
    Note: although OpenType allows you to apply mark-to-mark positioning for any sequence
    of marks, some applications or shaping engines may restrict certain sequences
    if they consider them to be grammatically invalid. So, for instance, the sequence
    of fatha with damma shown in your example is not recognised by the Uniscribe Arabic
    engine as a valid sequence, so the damma displays on a dotted circle. Personally,
    I think this is a really bad idea, and I suspect MS are beginning to think so
    too: a script shaping engine should not be acting as a spellchecker! The same
    sequence displays without the dotted circle in InDesign ME, with the damma above
    the fatha according to the OpenType mark-to-mark positioning."
  created: '2006-07-02 23:17:36'
- author:
    name: alviamjad
  body: "Appology, Pl. find the images. I'am unable to figure out how to attach file
    a PDF file with this message, so I uploaded it with \"insert image\" may be I
    am wrong, if so pl. tell me.\r\n\r\nAziz says:\r\nVOLT is so passive that it trades
    off Marks with Ligatures?!\r\n\r\nI think, Yes, positioning of marks on ligatures
    is very difficult to handle in Volt, That is why, i used different shapes instead
    of ligatures to correctly place marks. The page you see in PDF format contains
    only one ligature i.e. \"Lilla\" the last word in first row.\r\n\r\nPl. also see
    the last word in the fourth row, where middle shape of \"ta\" changed accordingly
    to help placing of marks.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Words-3_6447.gif]"
  created: '2006-07-03 07:11:38'
- author:
    name: alviamjad
  body: -deleted-
  created: '2006-07-03 07:18:29'
- author:
    name: alviamjad
  body: "I think this is better to view.\r\n\r\nOnly one ligature used in the whole
    page i.e. \"Lillah\" the last word in first row.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/para2_fin_4893.jpg]"
  created: '2006-07-03 08:24:12'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Take it easy Dear John,\r\nHere are 2x2 words written on the same line in
    the very Wordpad of windows:\r\nThe left wing reads ArabicTypesetting and the
    right wing reads Tahoma.\r\nEmphasizing: Same Engine, Same words, and Same line.\r\nHow
    nice Tahoma is that it does not force:\r\n\u2022 marry the classmates (Kasra to
    Shadda).\r\n\u2022 separate the spouses (?).\r\nWhy ArabicTypesetting  is not
    so democratic?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AType9_6247.JPG]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: John Hudson
      picture: 110397
    body: "'Marrying the classmates' is a stylistic decision. There is either a lookup
      in the font that does this or there is not. So Tahoma doesn't do it and Arabic
      Typesetting does.\r\n\r\nThe second issue is more surprising. I've tested this
      with a lot of different fonts, and the only ones in which the damma does not
      appear on a dotted circle are fonts that do not contain any OpenType GPOS mark
      positioning. In Tahoma, the marks are not positioned using anchors, they just
      fall wherever their offsets on their zero-widths put them, and they are not
      classified as marks in the GDEF table. So I think Uniscribe is dealing with
      these fonts in different ways. Uniscribe is not one shaping engine, but several,
      including different engines for different scripts, some for backwards compatibility.
      What Uniscribe does with a particular string depends on both the characters
      in that string and what tables exist in the font."
    created: '2006-07-03 20:56:31'
  created: '2006-07-03 10:48:50'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "<cite>The second issue is more surprising. I\u2019ve tested this with a lot
    of different fonts, and the only ones in which the damma does not appear on a
    dotted circle are fonts that do not contain any OpenType GPOS mark positioning.</cite>\r\n\r\nArabic
    fonts without 'arab' script in GPOS are considered by Uniscribe as legacy fonts
    and processed by old shaping engine, which does not support lots of things like
    contextual substitutions or mark positioning. Marks can be processed using 'mset'
    feature. New fonts, recognized by presence of GPOS, are processed by new engine
    that supports all OpenType layout lookups. \r\n\r\nIn Avalon, there is only one
    engine, which has the same rules as a new one in Uniscribe.\r\n\r\nI do not know
    exactly why limitation of a single mark of each type over the base was introduced
    for Arabic script. I can imagine some security (spoofing) or backward compatibility
    reasons. I will try to find out more.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey"
  created: '2006-07-03 21:10:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Handling mark positioning on ligatures is more complicated than on single-component
    glyphs, but it certainly isn't impossible. One needs to define the ligature glyphs
    as ligatures in the GDEF table (using VOLT's glyph edit window) and correctly
    record the number of components in the ligature, e.g. 2 components for the lam_alif
    ligatures. Then you create a mark-to-ligature lookup associated with the mark
    feature, and define anchor attachments for the individual components. Here are
    some examples of mark-to-ligature positioning in two fonts I have worked on, Adobe
    Arabic and Karim LT, showing marks applied to several two-component ligatures.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arablgmk_6313.gif]\r\n\r\nMy
    own dissatisfaction with ligatures is not with the relative difficulty of mark
    positioning, but with the awkwardness of the transition between two ligatures,
    e.g. between the theh_mim and the dad_yeh in the last word. Ligatures create elegant
    flowing forms for the invidiual pairs of letters, but the connection between them
    is not elegant and looks awkward compared to the ligatures. A ligature-free approach
    such as our Pakistani colleague can resolve this.\r\n\r\nThe Arabic fonts I have
    worked on to date have all been based on a ligature model, because that was the
    nature of the designs as provided. When I design my own Arabic typeface, I intend
    to avoid ligatures."
  created: '2006-07-03 21:20:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Sergey, a short while ago on one of the Unicode lists, Paul Nelson expressed
    the view that script shaping engines should not be performing what are, in effect,
    spellchecking functions. I took this as a hopeful sign that we might see a lot
    fewer dotted circles in future!\r\n\r\nIn my Biblical Hebrew font, I actually
    include a lookup that removes dotted circles from glyph strings, so that any combination
    of marks can be applied to any base, because scholars working with ancient manuscripts
    may need to represent non-standard spellings. Looking at what Uniscribe is doing
    with Arabic, I'd be inclined to do the same sort of thing in Arabic fonts. But
    the problem then is that users who actually want to display a dotted circle, e.g.
    to show a mark in isolation, are unable to. It would be much preferable if Uniscribe
    simply gave up on trying to enforce 'valid' mark sequences. As far as I'm concerned,
    a valid mark sequence is any mark sequence that a user deliberately creates, and
    it is up to the font to succeed or fail in rendering the sequence in an acceptable
    way. So far as I know, there are no invalid mark sequences for Latin GPOS: marks
    can stack endlessly. It should be so for all scripts employing the mkmk feature."
  created: '2006-07-03 21:26:42'
- author:
    name: alviamjad
  body: "John said!\r\nThe Arabic fonts I have worked on to date have all been based
    on a ligature model.\r\n\r\nI don't agree with. Arabic Calligraphy is basically
    combination of curves & stroks. As nicer your curves, the font looks elegant.
    Almost all the computer fonts which I have seen, have sufficent number of ligatures.
    That is due to difficulty of curves and joining points which decreases the fluency
    of strokes. But I think, it is not so difficult to handle. If we manage to perfect
    our curves and shapes, we don't need to have any ligature at all. Marks are so
    easy to place on seprated shapes. Also if we insert any \"Kashida\", it will not
    cause any broken ligatures nor collision of marks etc: "
  created: '2006-07-04 06:11:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>If we manage to perfect our curves and shapes, we don\u2019t need to
    have any ligature at all.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, I agree. As I explained, the only reason
    the fonts I have worked on in the past have ligatures is that this is how they
    were designed: I was not the designer, only the person manufacturing the fonts.
    If I design my own Arabic typeface, I will avoid ligatures.\r\n\r\nRegarding the
    curves and connecting strokes, OpenType has a cursive attachment GPOS lookup,
    which can be used to create smooth non-horizontal connections. With this, one
    can even produce nastaliq style with minimum ligatures."
  created: '2006-07-04 06:53:57'
- author:
    name: alviamjad
  body: "I have a suggestion for designing of any future Arabic Font that is to follow
    the technique of 'Nataliq', Computer aided Arabic scripts are traditionaly lying
    on base-line where base of almost all characters is on a straght line, this creates
    problem of accuratly placement of marks, in contrast Nastaliq is based on cuved
    type of writing which flows from top to bottom. It would be a good idea, if we
    adopt Nastaleeq policy where variation of character helps placement of Marks and
    Nuqtaas (dots). \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/new_words_4651.gif]\r\n\r\nTop
    part is Traditional Arabic Font and the Second one is Nafees Nastaleeq, Notice
    the flow of strokes of second line, this will helps in placement of marks. In
    South East Asia (Indo-Pak) the calligraphist adopted this policy and changed the
    Arabic Naskh into Naskh-cum-Nastaliq, which is easy to read and different from
    the Naskh of Arabic World.\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-04 08:19:59'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "John Hudson says: \r\nMy own dissatisfaction with ligatures is not with the
    relative difficulty of mark positioning, but with the awkwardness of the transition
    between two ligatures, e.g. between the theh_mim and the dad_yeh in the last word.
    Ligatures create elegant flowing forms for the individual pairs of letters, but
    the connection between them is not elegant and looks awkward compared to the ligatures.\r\nA
    ligature-free approach such as our Pakistani colleague can resolve this.\r\n...
    When I design my own Arabic typeface, I intend to avoid ligatures.\r\n\r\nSay:\r\nLearning
    ligatures from the Experienced is better than avoiding them or inventing handicapped
    ones:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ATypeA_3502.JPG]\r\nLegs between
    legs and hands grasping shoulders (from below) is healthier than the 69 and X
    ways?!\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nAlviamjad says:\r\nAlso
    if we insert any \u201CKashida\u201D, it will not cause any broken ligatures nor
    collision of marks etc..\r\n\r\nHate Kashida as I hate condom?! Make it Or not:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19348.\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-04 09:33:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Aziz, a ligature is a particular technical solution to a written form, i.e.
    the representation of two or more character by a single glyph. The point which
    I am trying to make is that the richness of the Arabic script does not rely on
    this particular technical solution and there are other methods to capture that
    richness in typography. The examples you give of elegant letter combinations can
    all be broken down into constituent strokes, i.e. the elegance is not dependent
    on these being ligatures: they could be constructed from contextually appropriate
    strokes. The advantage of such an approach is that it is far more flexible than
    even the most extensive ligatured font.'
  created: '2006-07-05 00:55:28'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> The examples you give of elegant letter combinations can all be broken
    down into constituent strokes..\r\n\r\nSay: Not including the Last Examples?!\r\n\r\n>
    ... i.e. the elegance is not dependent on these being ligatures: they could be
    constructed from contextually appropriate strokes. The advantage of such an approach
    is that it is far more flexible than even the most extensive ligatured font.\r\n\r\nSay:
    Precisely! This is the right way."
  created: '2006-07-05 05:06:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Not including the Last Examples?!</em>\r\n\r\nWhy not? Any form that
    can be constructed as a ligature can also be constructed as strokes that, if arranged
    correctly, would be visually identical to the ligature. The question is whether
    the arrangement can be achieved in a reasonable (and efficient) way in a particular
    font format. When I wrote that I would avoid ligatures, I didn't mean that I might
    not end up using some ligatures, but only that I would first try to resolve the
    forms using individual glphs and contextual substitution and positioning. I was
    looking at some thuluth calligraphy today, and figuring out how I would handle
    it using a font; there were only a couple of forms for which I might use a ligature.\r\n\r\n<em>Precisely!
    This is the right way.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat is the right way? I'm confused: are we
    agreeing or disagreeing?"
  created: '2006-07-05 05:40:50'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Since, Not All combinations are breakable, then Combining the 2 approaches
    (Ligatures and strokes) will result in more flexible and more elegant Fonts. Where
    to break what? There lies the creativity of the Designer.\r\n\r\nFor thuluth calligraphy,
    Consult:\r\nhttp://www.splart.net/forum/index.php?showtopic=63\r\nAll the Best"
  created: '2006-07-05 05:57:11'
- author:
    name: alviamjad
  body: "Certainly we cannot deny the importance of ligatures but in some cases, it
    cause lot of difficulty of placing marks etc: for example\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/newwords_6081.gif]\r\n\r\nthe
    first word is taken from 'Tulth' and the second from 'Traditional Arabic' fonts.
    I tried my level best to put marks on first two 'meems' but result is quite annoying.
    This kind of ligatures can't be handled with appropriate marks. \r\n\r\nLet take
    another example:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/words-1_6297.gif]\r\n\r\nthe
    first word is better ligtaure form of 'Saad' & 'Ra' combination then from the
    second one. Why not we break apart them as appeared in shapes below. I used lot
    of these forms in my Font. Actually when I start designing my font, I was more
    of the view of including ligatures, but when I practically faced problems, I totally
    divert my focus on to include shapes in place of ligatures."
  created: '2006-07-05 08:49:31'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Believe it or not:\r\nIt took me 3 Full-Time years to find and work out what
    to break and where to break what. For that, I went on consulting more than 5 Iraqis
    and Iranians and 3 Books by outstanding Egyptians and Turkish Calligraphists..\r\nBut...where
    to find the understanding and fair sponsor?\r\n\r\nHere is one more example in
    my font just to entertain your eyes:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mishkat_3510.jpg]\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-05 09:18:14'
- author:
    name: alviamjad
  body: "Aziz Said:\r\n\r\n>Hate Kashida as I hate condom?! \r\n\r\nI think it is
    not fair, may be you are thinking this because in 99% of the fonts 'kashida' is
    a straight line which destroy the beauty of curves. \r\n\r\nActually true 'kashida'
    is a curved type of stroke which makes Arabic writing more elegant and easier
    to read. Also in some cases where marks are difficult to place 'kashida' is a
    better option to adopt. \r\nsee this example:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/words-2_6403.jpg]\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: ME Q
    body: '1'
    created: '2013-01-28 08:27:27'
  created: '2006-07-05 09:55:24'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Woooow! 2 Kashids?! This means 2x2=4 (2 different ends)\r\nCan you define
    where \u2014 between which letter pairs\u2014 they must and must not go?!\r\nA
    Single and Short straight Kashid goes out of control and behaves so randomly and
    indiscriminately that it beautifies some words and spoils others. How if 4?\r\nAsk
    those who take care of 4 wives in a single home?!\r\n\r\nThen, where has the Kashida
    been deployed in your example?\r\n\r\nYours for the Workarounds"
  created: '2006-07-05 10:27:19'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Though we drop Marks in most of our writings, we do make use of them to differentiate
    or emphasize certain words. But ArabicTypesetting assumes that Marks would be
    either fully used or not used at all?!\r\nIf you interested in Hide and Seek games,
    then you are invited to find the hidden Fatha in the left word.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ATypeB_6322.JPG]\r\nAny
    explanation?"
  created: '2006-07-06 05:47:47'
- author:
    name: alviamjad
  body: "If you see the traditional calligraphy from all over the world, you will
    see lot of 'kashida'. Why they are using it?. You can't exempt Computer based
    calligraphy from its importance.\r\n\r\nI never found 'kashida' to spoils any
    of my word nor behave  indiscriminately. I always found this charachter very helpful
    in placing marks or reducing the complexity of shapes. May be my font is an extended
    type of behaviour with thick base, that is why 'kashida' helps to make more white
    space, which looks nicer. Also I could say that the font on which you are working
    is so condensed that there is no room for 'kashida'. That is why you are against
    this character.\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-06 06:04:50'
- author:
    name: alviamjad
  body: "Aziz said:\r\nIf you interested in Hide and Seek games, then you are invited
    to find the hidden Fatha in the left word\r\n\r\nDear Brother!\r\nI don't know
    what you want to ask, there is ligature invovled in your example to whome I was
    mentioning in almost all of my earlier posting that use of ligatures is not a
    solution in Arabic. We have to make certain shapes to avoid ligatures. Ligatures
    does make difficult to place marks. \r\n\r\nI used a short lam_initial shape to
    avoid marks positioning in following 'kaf'. \r\npl. see this. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/words_6650.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    used two shapes of lam_initial in my font."
  created: '2006-07-06 06:17:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Aziz, the problem in the example you show is not because of the number of
    marks, but because the Arabic Typesetting font lacks a form of the lam_mim ligature
    with a short lam. It does have a short lam, which is automatically substituted
    before medial kaf, but it does not have a corresponding short form of the lam_mim
    combination. It is a design flaw, not a technology flaw.\r\n\r\nThere is what
    I consider another design flaw: a fatha above the short lam is too high, I think,
    and still too close to the kaf. I would probably lower it, under the arm of the
    kaf, to make it more clearly associated with the lam.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lkr_6118.gif]"
  created: '2006-07-06 21:05:14'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "1. Thanks John for the Clarification\r\n2. What is the Alternative to Kashida?\r\nPerfection
    of Arabic Calligraphy is achieved not by adding Kashida within words nor by changing
    Kaf \u2014 as in Adobe Indesign\u2014 but by controlling word spacings as in Adobe
    PageMaker\u2014narrowing spaces between words ending with clockwise and others
    beginning with counterclockwise letters. \r\nIn other words: Space width Modulation.
    \r\nCopyrighted by AzizMostafa (?)\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19348"
  created: '2006-07-07 04:21:01'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "John says:\r\nAziz, the problem in the example you show is not because of
    the number of marks, but because the Arabic Typesetting font lacks a form of the
    lam_mim ligature with a short lam. \r\n\r\nSay:\r\nThe problem is not Only with
    Lam-mim but with her classmates also.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ATypeC_5124.JPG]\r\nAnother
    design flaw?\r\nJohn Hudson and Mamoun Sakkal should think sreiously of reconstructing
    ArabicTypesetting and sending me a complimentary copy?"
  created: '2006-07-07 04:52:33'
- author:
    name: alviamjad
  body: "Why not we change the shapes of some certain ligaures, like in this case
    [img:sites/default/files/old-images/words_4853.gif]\r\n\r\nmay be No. 4 in row
    1 OR  No. 2 in row 2 is better option.\r\n\r\nOR\r\n\r\nextend the arm of 'lam'
    as appeared in below 15 words."
  created: '2006-07-07 05:38:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I'm sure Mamoun has a whole list of things he would like to fix or change
    in the Arabic Typesetting font. Whether this happens depends on Microsoft's development
    cycles, the MST budget, and what their spending priorities are.
  created: '2006-07-07 17:14:38'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "... and on the possibility of fixing the flaws without generating others?!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-07 20:52:52'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Here is One word written in 2 different styles: The right is ligature-free
    and the left has been cranked by the seen-kha ligature. My question is how to
    handle this in VOLT \u2014 forming Kha and Seen and lifting All letters on the
    right of Seen there and then \u2014 Save Alif of course?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ATypeD_6139.JPG]"
  created: '2006-07-09 06:38:37'
- author:
    name: titus n.
    picture: 109952
  body: John, in an earlier post you said that inserting very narrow joining strokes
    is an opportunity to avoid clashes. Wouldn't it be possible to make a contextual
    GPOS lookup in addition to the regular vocalization placement?
  created: '2006-07-10 00:05:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Aziz, this is achieved using the OpenType Layout <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/features_ae.htm#curs\">'curs'</a>
    (Cursive Positioning) feature. The lookup type for this feature is a <a href=\"
    \">cursive attachment</a> GPOS, defining entry and exit points for a pair of glyphs.
    In your second example, the cursive attachment point on the right side of the
    seen_kah ligature is raised from the baseline, so any glyph that attaches to the
    right of this glyph will be raised. This feature accounts not only for the dramatic
    rise in this example, but also for the gradual incline of the first example.\r\n\r\nIn
    VOLT, create a new GPOS lookup, and select 'Cursive Attachment' from the drop
    down menu of lookup types. You will be presented with input fields for first and
    second glyphs, and an anchor name, which is always 'exit' in this kind of lookup.
    \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cursgpos_4655.gif]"
  created: '2006-07-10 00:58:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Titus, yes, one can certainly do contextual adjustments to mark positioning.
    In the Adobe Arabic font, we use both techniques: sometimes we raise or lower
    a mark to avoid a collision, other times we insert a narrow connecting stroke
    to move two letters further apart. Where we have an isolated or final form, e.g.
    waw, occuring mid-word, we might also employ a contextual kerning adjustment if
    the following glyph takes a mark that might collide with that letter. So there
    are three techniques for avoiding problems with mark collisions.'
  children:
  - author:
      name: titus n.
      picture: 109952
    body: 'Thanks for confirmation John. '
    created: '2006-07-10 10:13:36'
  created: '2006-07-10 01:01:42'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "On 29th June, 2006 , katia N. Dali asked:\r\nI want to ask you all, how did
    you learn VOLT?\r\nDoes anyone of you has a manual for it?\r\n\r\nAdmittedly Say:
    By pretending to be a Know-it-All?!\r\nIn this way I have been thankfully learning
    from John Hudson while still waiting for my application to be approved (or denied)
    by the manager of:\r\nhttp://groups.msn.com/MicrosoftVOLTuserscommunity\r\nI was
    there but my hotmail has been stolen, so I have applied with a new one. Unfortunately,
    I did not download VOLT then...\r\nTill re-gaining  access to that High VOLTage
    Area, All the Best for All."
  created: '2006-07-11 13:50:41'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Dear John, in your last reply, the highlighted \"cursive attachment GPOS\"
    in the 2nd line was mistakenly linked to http://typophile.com\r\nThanking you
    for the elaboration and awaiting for the correction.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-12 07:24:48'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: "hello Aziz,Im still waiting too for my application to be approved (or denied)
    by the manager of:\r\nhttp://groups.msn.com/MicrosoftVOLTuserscommunity\r\nI wish
    they accept us. actually my position in my company depends on learning VOLT. \r\n"
  created: '2006-07-12 09:31:39'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: Aziz, I want to ask you if it is possible to view a font that has been developed
    through VOLT? I want to see how it was volted?I knew that John Hudson is the developer
    of Arabic Typesetting font, so i was wondering if he can guide us to how to download
    it outside the VOLT user community site
  created: '2006-07-12 09:45:12'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "There were few people complaining here that their application to join VOLT
    community was pending for a long time. So, I just went through long list of pending
    requests, and everybody who waited for their approval should be able to access
    community site now.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey"
  created: '2006-07-13 19:34:04'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "On behalf of All, I say: Many Thanks Sergeym \r\nWarmest Regards with <a
    href=\"http://www.crAUSwords.com/flowers/WFlowers.htm\">Flowers</a>\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-13 20:49:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>n your last reply, the highlighted \u201Ccursive attachment GPOS\u201D
    in the 2nd line was mistakenly linked to http://typophile.com\r\nThanking you
    for the elaboration and awaiting for the correction.</em>\r\n\r\nSorry about that.
    I think I left an empty href in the text, and that automatically gets linked to
    Typophile. I was trying to find a link directly to the part of the OpenType specification
    that deals with cursive attachment GPOS, but although I found the section I couldn't
    find a way to link to it. So you have to go to this link:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/gpos.htm\r\n\r\nand
    then do a search for 'cursive attachment' to find the relevant section."
  created: '2006-07-14 07:12:12'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: "Hello john, I have 2 questions for you please:\r\nWhen I\u2019m compiling
    my font, this compilation error pops up:\u201DSome second glyphs are not marks
    in Anchor attachment lookup mark\u201D. What does that mean?\r\n\r\nAnother question
    regarding the Feature \u201Ccswh\u201D. It is said that it is applied to substitute
    any swash characters based on context. How is that?\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-01 11:52:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "In an anchor attachment lookup, all second glyphs must be defined as marks
    in the font GDEF table. You set the category of glyphs in the VOLT glyph edit
    window. [Note that you can also define glyphs as ligatures, but you should only
    do so if you are planning to do mark-to-ligature lookups.]\r\n\r\nThe 'cswh' feature
    works like any other contextual feature. You define contextual lookups to implement
    context-specific swash letters, as distinct from the 'swsh' feature which is used
    for non-contextual swash substitutions. This is an example of redundant features
    based on lookup type, which Adobe registered early on to limit the expected lookup
    types for each feature. Practically, the 'cswh' feature isn't needed, because
    you can put the contextual lookups in the 'swsh' feature alongside the non-contextual
    lookups."
  created: '2006-08-01 18:45:03'
- author:
    name: Naji
  body: "Dear All,\r\nI've designed a customised type face in arabic and latin with
    Fontlab, then I've passed it through microsoft volt. End result, I have a truetype
    font that works perfectly on PC but not on mac. Does anyone have an idea how to
    make it work on mac please? I've read that arabic opentype fonts work perfectly
    with Adobe MEA, is it only text edit who is unable to combine the arabic letters?
    I really need help and I'll be most greatful. Naji\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-03 12:25:48'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: thanks john, that was very helpful
  created: '2006-08-05 11:19:12'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: "hello naji,\r\nactually that's a common problem. but you said you \"passed
    it through Volt\" do you mean you volted it? Im working on an Arabic Font developed
    through font lab and trying to Volt it in order to avoid having different results
    on different computers (PC. & Mac) that's why im very intereseted in what you
    are talking about. Anyways i wish that John Hudson have the solution for this
    problem.\r\nby the way are you lebanese Naji?"
  created: '2006-08-05 11:36:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: As discussed in the other thread Naji started on this subject, Mac Arabic
    support is currently stuck between two different implementations. They have started
    supporting OpenType Layout, and (strangely) give preference to OTL tables over
    AAT tables if both occur in the same font, but their OTL support is not advanced
    enough to handle Arabic. AAT Arabic works very well, but it is relatively difficult
    to develop AAT fonts. For the time being, you have to ship separate OTL and AAT
    fonts, and there are some things that are possible in OTL that are not possible
    in AAT and vice versa, so if you want cross-platform compatibility you have to
    limit yourself to the things that both formats can handle.
  created: '2006-08-05 17:32:27'
- author:
    name: Naji
  body: "Thank you John for your help. And K.D. what John said is the only solution.
    My volted font works perfectly with adobe applications on mac but not on pc, on
    mac it seemed much more stable. On the other hande I kept a version (not volted)
    of the font on PC that works with all applications (office and adobe). The ideal
    solution to have a font that is functional in all applications that support arabic
    on mac is to have it in AAT, for that you'll need a developer and not a designer!
    \r\n\r\nP.S.: Yes I am lebanese  "
  created: '2006-08-05 18:02:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: In Adobe apps, you should not see a difference betweeen support on Windows
    and Mac, because Adobe use their own text and layout engines, not the system engines.
    The Middle East versions of Adobe apps should treat OpenType fonts identically
    on both platforms.
  created: '2006-08-06 05:42:18'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: "Hello john\r\nI have 2 questions for you please:\r\n1-I have this compilation
    error: \u201Cglyph can not be bound to a glyph set. Please check the expression
    and all the glyph groups it references\".\r\n2-I have this glyph  \u0635\u0644\u0649
    \u0627\u0644\u0644\u0647 \u0639\u0644\u064A\u0647 \u0648\u0633\u0644\u0645  written
    in a certain format, shall I put it under ligature the same as \u0627\u0644\u0644\u0647
    and if so how to create a substitution for it?\r\n\r\nI dont know hot to attach
    the words \u0635\u0644\u0649 \u0627\u0644\u0644\u0647 \u0639\u0644\u064A\u0647
    \u0648\u0633\u0644\u0645 for u to see how it is being designed.\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-09 17:08:59'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "1. This message means that you spelled one of the glyph names incorrectly
    and VOLT can not map it to particular glyph index. Check all the names in your
    lookup (both in substitution and context).\r\n\r\n2. Yes, you can put this into
    normal ligature substitution. Do not forget to include space glyphs and put it
    in front of shorter ligatures.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey"
  created: '2006-08-09 20:52:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Katia, I do not normally treat \uFDFA <em>sallallahou alayhe wasallam</em>
    glyph as an OT ligature, since it is a specialised representation, very distinct
    from how the words would appear in normal text. If I were to use a ligature lookup
    for this, I would certainly use the Discretionary Ligatures 'dlig' feature, not
    the standard or required ligatures features, since users may or may not want this
    form in specific situations.\r\n\r\nUnicode separately encodes \uFDFA -- along
    with several other Arabic 'word ligatures' -- and I would generally recommend
    that users directly encode this form as a single character, as I have done in
    this message (U+FDFA).\r\n\r\n[Sergey, I thought there was a limit to VOLT ligature
    input length? Are you sure it is possible to create a ligature lookup that will
    handle input of 18 glyphs?"
  created: '2006-08-09 23:56:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Regarding the VOLT error message, ''glyph can not be bound to a glyph set'':
    if you have imported a lookup or project from another font source, this message
    indicates either different glyph name conventions/spellings or that your present
    font lacks one or more glyphs that exist in the source font.'
  created: '2006-08-09 23:59:47'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "<cite>[Sergey, I thought there was a limit to VOLT ligature input length?
    Are you sure it is possible to create a ligature lookup that will handle input
    of 18 glyphs?]</cite>\r\n\r\nWhen you define how many components your ligature
    consists of you are limited to 16 components (pretty much aritfical limitation,
    just to keep number of elements in the combobox reasonable). So, if you have very
    long sequence, you wont be able to correctly place marks on individual components
    - which you would not do anyway in this particular case. \r\n\r\nBut ligature
    lookup itself does not have any limitation on length of glyph sequence being substituted.
    To be sure, I just succesfully tried replacing 60 glyphs into single ligature
    :). "
  created: '2006-08-10 03:27:03'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: "thanks john and sergey, yes i guess you was right regarding missing a glyph.
    and regarding the ligature \u0635\u0644\u0649 \u0627\u0644\u0644\u0647 \u0639\u0644\u064A\u0647
    \u0648\u0633\u0644\u0645, i will try to treat it as a single character and see
    what I get. \r\nthanks guys."
  created: '2006-08-11 13:47:19'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: "for mark-to-base positioning is it better to use Anchor or cursive attachment
    operation?\r\nalso please for  \u0626  \u0624 shall I treat them as simple glyphs
    or is it better to consider them as ligatures?"
  created: '2006-08-13 12:04:24'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "<cite>for mark-to-base positioning is it better to use Anchor or cursive
    attachment operation?</cite>\r\n\r\nmark-to-base, mark-to-ligature, and cursive
    attachment are all based on aligning anchors of two glyphs. Difference between
    them is that mark attachment will change offset of the mark and cursive attachment
    can change advance width of the first glyph and vertical offset of the second.
    So, for mark attachment, mark-to-base is the right lookup type.\r\n\r\n<cite>also
    please for \u0626 \u0624 shall I treat them as simple glyphs or is it better to
    consider them as ligatures?</cite>\r\n\r\nThere is no clear definition in OpenType
    specification of what is ligature and what is component. But clasifying glyphs
    as ligatures with several components is only useful when you plan to attach marks
    to each component separately. So, number of components is usually a number of
    base glyphs in the ligature.\r\n\r\nYour case is similar to Latin letters with
    accents, you do not need several components and you can define these glyphs as
    simple.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-13 18:10:25'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: "it is known that fontlab makes a redundancy for isolated characters, I mean
    isolated glyphs appear twice in the Volt glyph editor window. now the question
    is: do i have to enter both glyphs in the same lookup? in other words how to deal
    with this when adding a certain lookup. lets say i want to create a substitution
    lookup for medial characters, the ba character for example, but since UNI0101
    AND UNI1002 both stand for isolated ba, im adding them both:\r\n\r\nUNI0101 ->
    bamedi\r\nUNI1002 -> bamedi"
  created: '2006-08-23 13:26:03'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: by the way thanks sergey for replying instantly, and thanks for john too.
  created: '2006-08-23 13:28:29'
- author:
    name: alviamjad
  body: "You can use Glype Groups in this case, for example make a glyph group with
    a name say 'BayReplacement' and add all the glyphs you wish to change UNI0101,
    UNI1002 etc:\r\n\r\nThen in Lookup window whenever you needs call the whole group
    by writing;\r\n\r\nBayReplacement -> bamedi\r\n\r\nYou don't need to type them
    again and again.\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-24 10:11:48'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: any answer for the above question?? pleeaaase
  created: '2006-08-24 10:37:35'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: "hello alviamjad,\r\nsorry but you didnt get my point. I know that i can create
    glyph groups, however what i meant is that isolated glyphs always occur twice
    in the glyph editor window, so how to deal with this when creating substitution
    lookups? \r\ni.e. I have two isolated Alefs and i want to substitute the isolated
    Alef with final Alef, shall i substitute both isolated Alefs or it is enough to
    substitue only one and the second will be substitued automatically?"
  created: '2006-08-24 11:16:00'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: "with respect to mark positioning, sometimes after I'm done with positioning
    the marks, some are misplaced and i have to re-position them again, though im
    locking second anchor, or do i have to lock both?\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-24 12:59:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Katia, in answer to your first question:\r\n\r\nWhat you have, I presume,
    is the isolated character from the Unicode Arabic block (e.g. uni0628, beh) and
    a corresponding, redundant isolated character from the Arabic Presentation Forms
    (e.g. uniFE8F). The latter isn't necessary at all in an OpenType font (you only
    need character mappings for the Arabic block characters; everything else can be
    handled by glyph processing), but such redundant mappings might be used if the
    font encounters older software that uses presentation form mappings for Arabic
    shaping. If the redundant isolated characters are supported in the font using
    distinct glyphs, I would say that it doesn't really matter whether both are mapped
    in shaping features like init, medi and fina. OpenType Layout presumes a Unicode
    text handler which processes Arabic text using Arabic block codepoints. It is
    quite likely that such a handler will apply compatability mappings to Presentation
    Form characters encountered in text before glyph processing even begins, so the
    likelihood of e.g. the init feature needing to know what to do with uniFE8F is
    remote. That said, I don't think there is any harm in providing a double lookup."
  created: '2006-08-24 17:54:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Katia, in response to your second question:\r\n\r\nThe GPOS window can be
    a little finicky, but you shouldn't be getting the problem you describe. Are you
    being careful to specify unique anchor names, and not to reuse anchor names. One
    of the easiest ways to mess up previous work is to reuse an anchor name and change
    its position, which will affect any existing anchor positioning lookups using
    that anchor name.\r\n\r\nYou should only need to lock the second glyph."
  created: '2006-08-24 17:56:38'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: "first thanks for the first question john \"you are saving my life :-)\"\r\nI
    will make sure to thank you face to face when I visit my sister in Calgary/Alberta.\r\nbut
    with respect to the second question, do you mean by the anchor names, the glyphs
    unicodes under \"position first\"? if this is what you mean then sure they have
    unique names. and if it isnt what you mean then please tell me.\r\nthanks again "
  created: '2006-08-26 11:12:15'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: 'by the way John, i received the Unicode Guide provided by linotype, so now
    i understand what you meant.I think i have to do more research on how fontlab
    works. Actually Im a database programer and i have nothing to do with fonts and
    grphic design, but I got a good offer to work as a font developer so here I am. '
  created: '2006-08-26 11:21:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Katia, here is an example of what I am referring to in VOLT's GPOS window.
    The red underlined anchor names must be unique for any different mark positioning.
    So, for example, if I have a second lookup that adjusts the position of marks
    contextually, e.g. raising or lowering them when preceded by certain letters,
    then the anchor names in that lookup could not be 'above' and 'below' as they
    are in this lookup, because any changes to positioning for the anchors named 'above'
    and 'below' will propagate to lookups using those anchor names, including work
    that I have already done.\r\n\r\nWhen you first create a GPOS anchor attachment
    lookup, the anchor(s) in it will be named 'default'. The first thing you should
    do is change this name to something specific to the lookup.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/VOLTGPOSANC_5378.gif]"
  created: '2006-08-27 03:00:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: PS. Calgary is a long way from where I am (about 720 kilometres), but if you
    do come as far as Vancouver, let me know. I'm on an island nearby.
  created: '2006-08-27 03:05:20'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "29 June, 2006, John Hudson said:\r\n...  I\u2019d be interested in writing
    a proper VOLT manual if I had time and someone were to pay me.\r\n\r\nFirst, I
    have come across a font utility inside Sinasoft.com package that combines the
    functions of Fontlab and VOLT. This 150U$ Utility is intuitive, but unfortunately
    not compatible with M$ and Adobe Products.\r\n\r\n2 John, please consider this
    proposal:\r\nSoon after supplying my (5+1) True Type Fonts, John starts transforming
    them into a single OTF and Aziz does the timely feedback.\r\nMeanwhile John goes
    on writing the steps involved in the Font Generation and Aziz does the translation
    \u2014 concurrently step-by-step form start to finish.\r\nIn this way, we will
    have 2 comprehensive VOLT manuals\u2014English and Arabic\u2014 and Uncompromising
    Arabic OTF?!\r\nTerms and Condition\u2014 including time and cost\u2014 are subject
    to discussion and will be published here when finalized in the hope that they\u2014
    Font and Manual\u2014 will find the Right Publisher they deserve.\r\nMake it Together?!
    The earlier, the better?!\r\nSincerely"
  created: '2006-08-27 09:45:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Aziz, it is a nice idea in some ways. Unfortunately, I really don't think
    I have time, and am unlikely to find time given how busy I am with other projects.
    Also, this isn't really how I would like to do the manual. Writing and font production
    involve such different ways of thinking that I find it very difficult to do both
    at the same time. I've tried in the past, and it just makes me grumpy.
  created: '2006-08-27 18:42:14'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Nothing makes me grumpy save making John grumpy.\r\nHope John will consider
    working out the same proposal in 2 steps: \r\nBuilding then Documenting... \r\nYours
    for Good Projects"
  created: '2006-08-27 22:25:27'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: "OH now I understand what you mean, sure I replaced the dafault anchor names
    (mark above ligature, mark below base etc...), but you are right I put the same
    anchor name in 2 lookups, I thought it wasnt a problem.\r\nthanks john.\r\n\r\nPs.
    I know that Vancouver is way far from Calgary, actually I visited BC but i couldnt
    continue to vancouver because I didnt have much  time.you are really lucky to
    live near Vancouver its like heaven."
  created: '2006-08-28 12:57:21'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: "in Mark to ligature Anchor attachment we have the shaded and the bold mark,
    which one should be located on the desired letter of the ligature? And how to
    adjust both marks as desired, what is happening is that when I move one the other
    is misplaced (they are proportional?).\r\n\r\nAlso please John: The designer forgot
    to include two glyphs in her font, now she designed them but how shall I import
    them? I went to the import glyph window but it didn\u2019t work with me.\r\n\r\nPs.
    Is it one of your duties to help us John? Or are we interrupting you every now
    and then.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-01 09:39:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "In the mark-to-ligature lookup, the black mark indicates the mark to be positioned
    on the current component letter; the grey mark indicates the position of the mark
    relative to the other component(s). So consider the example of a lam_alif ligature:
    in the Glyph Edit window you have classified the lam_alif as a ligature with 2
    components. In the mark positioning window, you can select the individual components
    using the drop down list in the top right corner of the window. In this case,
    the lam is component 1 and the alif is component 2. The first thing you want to
    do is to lock the position of the second glyph (the mark) so that it only moves
    relative to the first glyph (the ligature) not relative to itself (i.e. not relative
    to its zero-width). This is probably what you have failed to do if you are seeing
    the grey mark moving when you move the black one. Once you have positioned the
    mark on the lam, go to the component drop down list, and select 2. The mark you
    have positioned on the lam will become grey, and the one you are about to position
    on the alif will become black. There will always be a number of marks equal to
    the number of components.\r\n\r\nFor your other question:\r\n\r\n1. Export a VOLT
    project file (see export menu). This is a text file that contains all your glyph,
    lookup, feature, glyph group and option settings for the font.\r\n\r\n2. Add the
    new glyphs in FontLab (I recommend adding them at the end of the glyph set to
    avoid having to reorder within the VOLT project).\r\n\r\n3. Generate a new font
    from FontLab with the additional glyphs.\r\n\r\n4. Open the new font in VOLT,
    and go to the import menu to import the project file you exported earlier.\r\n\r\n5.
    Go to the Glyph Edit window and ensure that the glyph order is consistent with
    the imported names, classes, etc. Go to the new glyphs and give them appropriate
    names.\r\n\r\n6. You are now ready to continue working in VOLT.\r\n\r\n\r\nPS.
    No it isn't one of my duties."
  created: '2006-09-01 20:22:07'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: "if it is not one of your duties, then i would like to thank you for your
    kindness and patience. I owe it to u. and sorry for the interruption.\r\nI just
    have one last question that can be answered by yes or no:\r\nYou told me before
    that: \u201CIf the redundant isolated characters are supported in the font using
    distinct glyphs, I would say that it doesn\u2019t really matter whether both are
    mapped in shaping features like init, medi and fina. OpenType Layout presumes
    a Unicode text handler which processes Arabic text using Arabic block codepoints.
    It is quite likely that such a handler will apply compatibility mappings to Presentation
    Form characters encountered in text before glyph processing even begins, so the
    likelihood of e.g. the init feature needing to know what to do with uniFE8F is
    remote. That said, I don\u2019t think there is any harm in providing a double
    lookup\u201D.\r\nIs this applicable to mark positioning too? I mean do I have
    to position marks over redundant isolated characters? Or is it remote?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-02 11:37:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: To be on the safe side, yes, I would apply mark positioning to the redundant
    isolated characters. There is the chance that someone hard encodes one of these
    characters in a document, and so the glyph may occur in combination with a mark.
  created: '2006-09-02 20:11:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Aziz, the key phrase in my comment regarding a VOLT manual was '<em>if</em>
    I had time'. The fact is that I don't have time, neither to help you with your
    fonts nor to write up the process. I have the knowledge I need now to write the
    manual -- I've been using VOLT for years, in some very complicated projects, and
    there isn't a lot I don't know about the program --, but I simply do not have
    time.
  created: '2006-09-02 23:01:12'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "In appreciation to John's time and knowledge, I present these few lines:\r\nHe
    volunteers information whenever asked, but\r\nWhen I needed him, he apologized
    for being a single-handed,\r\nThen when I asked for the single hand, Shortage
    of time, he replied.\r\nIs it my fault to be a single dimensional in my sight?\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-03 21:16:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Not single-handed, and indeed\r\nHow could I juggle unimanual?\r\nI understand
    your pressing need,\r\nbut must these balls keep aerial.\r\nSo please be not with
    me annoyed:\r\nI have two hands, but both employed."
  created: '2006-09-03 23:48:07'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: "dont say this Aziz, I went through lots of Typophile nodes and noticed that
    John helped you all, WHILE HE DOESNT HAVE TO, and you ,personally, said before:\u201D
    Admittedly Say: By pretending to be a Know-it-All?!In this way I have been thankfully
    learning from John Hudson\u201D. so there is no need for what you said above.
    I dont know John personally but Im grateful that he helped me and frankly speaking
    \"he is such a kind person\". \r\n"
  created: '2006-09-04 07:43:35'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "I think K.D misunderstood me and/or John.\r\nJohn is John. I like him and
    I like you too.\r\nBy the way, Katia, how many characters does your font have?\r\nHave
    your read my last posting here?\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19348\r\nKeep posting
    your Questions, Feedback and Comments.\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-04 13:06:11'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: "hello Aziz,\r\nsorry if i misunderstood you.\r\nmy font is made up of 539
    characters.\r\nyes i read the posting and I like the qoranic font you made and
    I wish you find a sponsor soon.\r\nActually I work in a graphic design company
    (Almohtaraf Assaudi), we won the First and second prize of linotype's Arabic Type
    Design competition 2005."
  created: '2006-09-05 06:55:13'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: "I dont know why compilation is failing without receiving any compilation
    error msg. if somebody knows please tell me. \r\n"
  created: '2006-09-05 14:00:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "If VOLT compilation fails with no specific error message, it is most likely
    a problem that requires you to use extension lookups, format 2 lookups for pair
    positioning, or both. Go to Options under the Tools menu. There are two 'Compilation'
    options:\r\n\r\n[ ] Use extension lookups\r\n[ ] Use PairPosFormat2 for pair positioning\r\n\r\nTurn
    on the first of these options, and try to compile the font. If it still will not
    compile, turn off the first option and turn on the second option. If the font
    will not compile with the second option set, turn on both options, and try again.
    If it still won't compile, let me know."
  created: '2006-09-05 20:57:31'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: "it seems that i will not be able to survive without you john.\r\nunfortunately
    i have bad news: I did what you told me but still \"Compilation Failed\" and im
    going crazy over here. I went through the whole project, I checked everything,
    and everything is perfect. I dont know what the problem is."
  created: '2006-09-06 08:13:04'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: but john, i put the smcp feature, for english caps, with the rest. I mean
    in the Arabic language feature tree. is that a problem or the compilation failure
    has nothing to do with that?
  created: '2006-09-06 10:38:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: That should not affect compilation. I'm going to put you in touch with Sergey
    Malkin to see if he can help you debug the problem. Please contact me by email
    at john[at]tiro[dot]ca
  created: '2006-09-06 15:04:42'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "You can always find me here, I am just not as fast as John answering your
    questions. You can send me email to sergeym_at_microsoft_com.\r\n\r\nFirst you
    may check that VOLT installation is not broken, by taking some small font and
    trying to compile it.\r\n\r\nVOLT may be exceeding maximum table size for individual
    lookup, most frequently kerning and sometimes mark attachment. In this case, using
    flags that John suggested in his responce may or may not help. Breaking into multiple
    lokups can help. You can find offending lookup by deleting them, starting from
    most suspicious.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey"
  created: '2006-09-07 08:14:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Sergey, Katia sent me her font and I figured out the problem: it wouldn''t
    compile because anchor names had spaces in them. Perhaps you can add an error
    message for this?'
  created: '2006-09-08 01:43:06'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: Ok Sergey I will make sure to contact you next time.
  created: '2006-09-08 08:40:28'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: "I opened a font and some marks have 3 unicodes:\r\ni.e the shedda has this
    Unicode:U+00AF,U+00F8,U+O651 (which is very strange)\r\nAlso when I import additional
    glyphs, they appear on the glyph editor without any Unicode, even though in fontlab
    they have their Unicodes. Anyone knows why?\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-12 15:11:20'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "When new font is opened in VOLT, it is importing cmap table. During that
    it is looking at all cmap subtables to collect as much mappings as possible. Usually,
    all subtables are consistent. You may have got one with incorrect encoding in
    it, but I do not remember anybody experienced ths problem with their real fonts.\r\n\r\nWhat
    are all subtables in your font? You can go to Tools\\Options menu to get the list.
    Was this font generated by FontLab?\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey"
  created: '2006-09-13 02:18:48'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: "in the CMAP table I have: \r\nPlatform 0 1 3\r\nEncoding 3 0 1 \r\nFormat
    \  4 6 4\r\n\r\nyes my font was generated by fontlab"
  created: '2006-09-13 12:52:17'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "First, I hope the Duck has gone paddling progressively?!\r\nThanks to the
    Teachers and Good luck to the Paddling Duck.\r\n\r\nJust one question:\r\n\r\nIn
    both M$ and Adobe Arabic Applications, \r\n1 Tanweens (// and 69)) do not change
    letters to their final forms.\r\n2 Full Justification is carried out by adding
    Kashida at the middle of words.\r\n\r\nIs any of these 2 alternatives VOLTable:\r\n1
    Making Tanweens as non-joiner Marks, and/or\r\n2 Swashing (prolonging) the final
    forms of letters instead of Kashida?\r\n\r\nAny hint is highly appreciated."
  children:
  - author:
      name: sergeym
    body: "1. I can not comment on this as I do not know enough about Arabic. We did
      not hear any requests/complaints about current behavior of these marks. Do you
      have any evidence that shaping should be enforced in this case? If tatween appears
      at the end of the word anyway, won't last letter be in the final form anyway?
      If it is a choice of the user, it should be implemented on the character level,
      possibly using zero width non-joiner. Especially if it changes meaning of the
      text.\r\n\r\nIf you think it really should be done uncondtionally, my guess
      is that this would be part of Uniscribe rules. But font can also be tweaked
      if it is needed. Contextual lookups can adjust the forms of surrounding letters.\r\n\r\n2.
      Justification is higher level feature than shaping individual character runs.
      OpenType layout rules do not have any information about actual width of the
      line and what other content (from different scripts) is present. There is no
      standard protocol defined between font and text layout engine to achive what
      you want. Is it would exist, then VOLT will be able to implement it but so far
      it can't because of lack of the rules that should be followed.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey"
    created: '2006-09-19 20:16:16'
  created: '2006-09-19 18:51:20'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "Ok, I now found more information about tanween and I think I understand what
    you are asking for. Tanween is possible to do on font level without changing Uniscribe,
    using contextual substitution based on first letter of following word. One thing
    that will not work is context not working across the lines, because each line
    is shaped independently.\r\n\r\nWorking across the line is on higher level than
    a font, beyond OpenType layout. As with justification, there should be a protocol
    defined between higher level engine and the font (e.g. through applying particular
    feature) to communicate intended shaping.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey"
  created: '2006-09-19 23:34:43'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "May God bless your Clicking Finger, Sergey.\r\n> We did not hear any requests/complaints
    about current behavior of these marks. Do you have any evidence that shaping should
    be enforced in this case? \r\n\r\nNo complaints but enforcing Tanween Shaping
    will not only prevent connection with the following word in case a space goes
    missing but will also lessen the importance of preceding the following word with
    a space as well.\r\n\r\n> Tanween is possible to do on font level without changing
    Uniscribe, \r\nusing contextual substitution based on first letter of following
    word\r\n\r\nContextual substitution based on first letter of following word?!\r\nSince
    the following word is preceded by a space, then am I right to conclude that:\r\n1
    Justification is not possible by swashing though (Overlapped) Swashing is VOLTable.\r\n2
    en and em spaces (narrower or wider), are VOLT-Controlled also?\r\n\r\nHope Uniscribe
    Rules will be modified to make life easier for VOL(un)Teers."
  created: '2006-09-21 12:14:44'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Just rewarding the last posting: If Contextual substitution based on first
    letter of following word is possible, is it possible then to:\r\n\r\n1 VOLT (Overlapped)
    Swashing based on first letter of following word, and\r\n2 Adjust the spacing
    between the last letter in a word and the first letter in the following word in
    increments of en space for example.\r\n\r\nMany Thanks in anticipation"
  created: '2006-09-27 06:26:36'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: ">I hope the Duck has gone paddling progressively?!\r\nThanks to the Teachers
    and Good luck to the Paddling Duck.\r\n\r\nFirst,Im proud to be a paddling duck
    Mr. Aziz.\r\nsecond, Im a holder of a Masters degree in Information system Technologies,
    and there is no harm if someone learns new programs and emerging technologies.
    \r\n3rd, many thanks for my teachers Sergey and John.\r\n\r\nps. I can be your
    teacher in Information systems if you want dear Aziz!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-28 08:15:24'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Sorry, I think you misunderstood me again, Ms Duck! Or Duckling?!\r\nK.D.
    starts with K and ends with D, but Duck starts with D and ends with K?!\r\nSo
    the difference is quite clear.\r\n\r\nProud to know the definition of \"Information\"
    from the holder of a Masters degree in Information system Technologies.\r\n\r\nApologizing
    again and Thanking you in advance as many times as ...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Thanku_5997.gif]"
  created: '2006-09-28 08:46:59'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Dear Friend,\r\nDo you find any difficulty in walking through this getting-very-long
    topic?\r\nJust look <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/28383?from=24&comments_per_page=50\">here</a>\r\nHappy
    Navigating with <a href=\"http://www.crAUSwords.com/flowers/WFlowers.htm\">Flowers</a>\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-28 09:46:16'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: "hello Aziz,\r\n>Sorry, I think you misunderstood me again, Ms Duck! Or Duckling?!\r\nmaybe
    the misunderstanding goes to our Arab nature. but this doesnt excuse your offensive
    personality.\r\n>Proud to know the definition of \u201CInformation\u201D from
    the holder of a Masters degree in Information system Technologies.\r\nInformaton
    in our dictionary is simply the data that we collect, store and process for future
    use. "
  created: '2006-10-03 13:07:21'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: Deleted due to repetition
  created: '2006-10-03 21:18:53'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "1. Typophile Friends have indirectly answered the last 2 questions <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/28517\">here</a>\r\n___________________________________________________\r\n2.
    Katia, we \u2014 Communication Engineers\u2014 define Information as the logarithm
    of the inverse of the likelihood (p)robability) of the news (data). Mathematically,
    \ Information (in Bits)= 10 log 1/p\r\n\r\nSo, a likely event carries no information,
    like the sun will rise tomorrow.\r\nSimilarly, the less likely the event, the
    more informative!\r\nAccusing me of being Offensive is highly informative (to
    me at least)?!\r\nThough I lived in Iraq for 27 years, I have no Arab Origin.
    \r\nMy Father was from Turkey, Mother Persian, I am a father of One Malaysian
    Son and 2 Iranian Daughters. Can communicate in English, <a href=\"http://pbmuks.org/lumw/\">Malay</a>,
    Arabic and Persian, but unfortunately not in Turkish!\r\nAll the Best with <a
    href=\"http://www.crAUSwords.com/flowers/WFlowers.htm\">Flowers</a>"
  created: '2006-10-03 21:19:49'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: "Wow, I\u2019m so impressed Aziz. You have such a weird combination, but it\u2019s
    nice though. \r\nExcuse my curiosity but how can a communication engineer be interested
    in designing and developing fonts?\r\nI\u2019m still 25 years old and as u know
    I hold a Masters degree in Information systems. I live in lebanon while my family
    work and live in the ivory coast. after university all I wanted was to work in
    my major, I worked as a freelancer, I worked with the UN, etc. finally i ended
    up working with fonts, which I found not interesting. \r\n\r\nps. the offensive
    personality is what you showed on this node, if you have a different personality
    then accept my sincere appologies.  \r\n"
  created: '2006-10-04 10:52:57'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> ... I ended up working with fonts, which I found not interesting\r\n\r\nWell
    Katia, Font Making is like Baby Making in the womb of a lady.\r\nIt starts with
    pains and ends up with birth pangs to deliver a well-made one?!\r\nSome ladies
    hate it. Others love it. Still others pay thousands of U$ to experience it.\r\nBut
    for sure, it is the companion that makes the journey sweet or bitter?!\r\n\r\nUniversity
    degree just helps you step to the bottom of the ladder and you have to climb up
    to the top. There, you learned nothing but problem-solving techniques applicable
    to Info Systems and Fonts as well. So, it is you who translates that into workable
    ideas wherever and whenever needed from you. Only there and then, you will discover
    yourself...\r\nBut keep in mind that \" A creative ABC Teacher is better than
    a useless Ph.Doctor.\"\r\n\r\nApologies and Thanks with <a href=\"http://www.crAUSwords.com/flowers/WFlowers.htm\">Flowers</a>.\r\n\r\nP.S.
    Katia, please take note that I wont answer any more off-topic matters. \r\nFeel
    free to email me."
  created: '2006-10-04 18:27:43'
- author:
    name: Katia Dali
    picture: 111684
  body: "thank you Aziz, dont worry I know lots of PHD loosers.\r\nI know we are not
    here to chatt, I was just surprised to see a communication engineer designing
    fonts.\r\nbest wishes."
  created: '2006-10-05 06:50:10'
- author:
    name: marsad
  body: "Hello every one. \r\nyour posted comments were very useful. thanks a lot.\r\nI
    have a problem with the 'mset' feature:\r\nAfter opening an existing font, editing
    it and compiling it (in Fontlab Studio), I dont know why the 'mset' feature dosnt
    work in the resultant font. Can anyone help me??\r\nThanks a lot again. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: rahmi_rt
    body: "you can see my font works\r\nhttp://rtsoft.dilafilm.com.tr/diger/fontlarimdan1.gif\r\nhttp://rtsoft.dilafilm.com.tr/diger/fontlarimdan2.gif\r\nhttp://rtsoft.dilafilm.com.tr/diger/fontlarimdan3.gif\r\nhttp://rtsoft.dilafilm.com.tr/diger/fontlarimdan4.gif\r\nhttp://rtsoft.dilafilm.com.tr/diger/fontlarimdan5f.gif\r\nhttp://rtsoft.dilafilm.com.tr/diger/fontlarimdan07a.gif\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fontlarimdan4_4136.gif]"
    created: '2007-05-28 15:19:31'
  created: '2006-11-07 08:22:32'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "RahmaT, your font handled by Thomas Milo?!\r\nStill discussing it with Thomas
    Milo, please keep watching:\r\nhttp://29letters.wordpress.com/2007/01/15/arabic-calligraphy-written-by-hand-or-type-set-on-the-computer/\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-28 19:56:45'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Double Post exploited for Quick Navigatiion + Flowers\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/20638?from=0&comments_per_page=5000"
  created: '2007-05-28 20:52:48'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "John Hudson wrote: \r\n\r\n\"Although all my own Arabic work has been in
    OpenType, I\u2019m pretty convinced that only an approach like Tom\u2019s can
    result in optimal mark positioning. The downside of such a system is that it tends
    to be very slow: not something you would want to use for, e.g. e-mail. But in
    the context of book production, it is the best thing available.\"\r\n\r\nThis
    was not based on actual observation. The core code for ACE was written in 1984
    for 4Mhz processors :-)\r\nSee: http://laits.utexas.edu/rfpit/texts/Mimesis.html\r\n\r\nToday
    it runs on 1Ghz, 2Ghz or even faster computers. ACE has never been slow, and it's
    certainly faster than OpenType. \r\n\r\nMoreover, what's wrong with elegant email.
    Ruqah, one of our projects, is perfect for (e)mail. Anyway, ACE is technology,
    not a specific font.\r\n\r\nThomas Milo\r\nDecoType\r\nwww.decotype.com"
  created: '2008-06-20 13:50:47'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ligature-problem_3915.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nDear
    John Hudson,\r\n\r\nPlease tell me ligature bari yeh before init, medi form join
    the ligature, joint point, what you know any rule in volt please provide detail,
    i thankful to you whole life. My imge show above the problem.\r\n\r\n\r\nBest
    regards,\r\n\r\nSaleem Ali Ghalib\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-18 12:46:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I believe the problem is that your cursive connection GPOS feature has the
    marks flag set to something other than NONE, probably all. Every OpenType Layout
    lookup has a flag that indicates whether all marks, no mark or a class of marks
    should be processed as part of the lookup. For features that involve interaction
    between adjacent letter shapes, such as ligature GSUB features and cursive attachment
    GPOS features, you want to set the marks flag to NONE. This means that marks in
    the glyph sequence will be ignored by this lookup. [Note that, obviously, this
    means that mark glyphs need to be classified as Marks in the VOLT glyph data.]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/markflag_4824.png]"
  created: '2010-07-28 18:01:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Re. the lam_mim ligature:\r\n\r\nI'm guessing that there are a couple of
    different situations in which you want this ligature not to form; when any mark
    follows the mim but perhaps also when a mark occurs below the lam?\r\n\r\nWhat
    you need to do in this case is create some separate lookups for this ligature,
    and a class for lower marks called e.g. 'marks_below', and another class for 'all_marks'.\r\n\r\nYour
    first lookup will form the ligature only if no below mark follows the lam. This
    is done by putting the 'marks_below' class name in the Process Marks field:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LM1_5027.png]\r\n___\r\n\r\nThe
    second lookup decomposes the ligature when the mim is followed by a mark. This
    requires the Process Marks field to be set to ALL, so that the 'all_marks' class
    will be recognised in the context string:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LM2_6393.png]"
  created: '2010-07-28 18:17:26'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: "Dear John Husson,\r\n\r\nDiacritic mark is not apply on ligature plz describe
    solve the problem.\r\nI am marking glyph definition ligature 2 component and use
    anchor attachment but it is not working on MS word. Happening situation is fig:
    2, fig:3\r\n\r\n\r\nMy previous post i learned lot of works in volt and succeed
    init, medi and fina change the baselineshift and word rising the desired ligature
    as fig; 1 i thank ful to you but the diacritic mark  is not working on it. What
    happened.\r\n\r\nI need to know if there is a way to de-ligate the Lam-Meem ligature
    when I put a mark on the Meem so that, when I put the mark for the Meem, the ligature
    is back seperated to Lam (initial) and Meem (medial), so the mark doesn't like
    it's the Lam's.\r\n\r\nPlz describe the detail with screen shot if you don't mind
    i understand that is not your job it is merly your kindness yours suggestion is
    very helpful for me, font is very flat that has a great impact for urdu audience,
    designer support layout font.\r\n\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nSaleem Ali Ghalib[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ligature-problem-2-2_5145.gif]"
  created: '2010-07-30 05:34:10'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: "Dear John Hudson,\r\n\r\n\r\nThank you very much for your immediate response
    and your kindness will make me a better font designer in future. Again thank you,
    good men spread the knowledge. I will get more information about volt feature
    time to time whenever trouble shoot.\r\n\r\nBest Regards,\r\n\r\nSaleem Ali Ghalib "
  created: '2010-07-30 06:27:23'
- author:
    name: rahmi_rt
  body: "you can see my last works (2010)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.rtsoftpro.com/diger/fontlarimdan1.jpg\r\nhttp://www.rtsoftpro.com/diger/fontlarimdan2.jpg\r\nhttp://www.rtsoftpro.com/diger/fontlarimdan3.jpg\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/22_6392.jpg]"
  created: '2012-03-07 23:39:07'
- author:
    name: mjins2
  body: "since its initial idea - which interestingly grew from the sanctum of founder
    stefan siegel's shoreditch kitchen walls into a working databa -se of over 6,000
    designers spread across 88 countries - the dedicated designer platform has certainly
    done what it says on the tin. a global howroom where trend scouts, fashion insiders
    and stylists are able to source talent, it isn't just an online shop, it's a veritable
    fashion spring- board, saturater with the ideas of tomorrow's designers, and eagerly
    digested in the process too. ladiva attractive layering of colorless enjoy! cody
    colorless casual style is so attractive. seemed to rock seemed unvarnished. we'll
    tiresome colorless chic the field is variegat with all kinds of flowering plants.
    and she worked a skirt and blouse since its initial idea which interestingly grew
    from the sanctum of ounder stefan siegel's shoreditch kitchen walls into a working
    database of over 6,000 designers spread across 88 countries - the dedicated designer
    platform has certainly done what it says on the tin. a global showroom where trend
    scouts, fashion insiders and stylists are able to source talent,\r\nit isn't just
    an online shop, it's a veritable fashion spring-board, saturated with the ideas
    of tomorrow's designers, and eagerly digested in the process too. ladiva attractive
    layering of colorless enjoy! cody colorless casual style is so attractive. seemed
    to rock seemed unvar-nished. we'll tiresome colorless chic the field is variegated
    with all kinds of flowering plants. and she worked a skirt and blouse\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-24 17:50:33'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: "i work on Urdu Nastaleeq font but on working lot of problems any one help
    me.\r\nMy font contextual recognized shape is not working on Ms office.\r\nadobe
    illustrator working very fine some time unexpectedly quite what happened.\r\ni
    am very upset lot of work on it. thanks lot."
  created: '2012-09-04 08:56:41'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: "John Hudson,\r\n\r\ni am waiting for your response. last day mail for your
    given ID."
  created: '2012-09-04 08:58:43'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: It may help if you start a new thread specific to the problems you are encountering.
  created: '2012-09-04 11:33:25'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: I am working on Nastaleeq urdu font it is not contextual alternate are not
    get what happened MS work .doc file attached the problems highlighted in circle.  insert
    image error if you want see my problem give your email.
  created: '2012-09-05 13:10:44'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Karl & saleem, this thread is specific to Nastaleeq :\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/82934\r\nStay
    tuned with developments?!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: saleem Ali
    body: "Thank you\r\n\r\nAziz Mostafa"
    created: '2012-09-06 07:41:32'
  created: '2012-09-05 13:32:20'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: Are  otf font with arabic feature work on adobe in design and illustrator
    Mac and PC computer?
  created: '2012-09-26 10:55:09'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Karl? A link to INDD1? What a total disaster that was: it totally screwed
    up font-handling with every other Adobe program, and I had to uninstall it, then
    rebuild Illustrator and Photoshop to undo the damage.\r\n\r\nNo wonder I can't
    get any help with my spacer problem\u2026although, IF I ever get the problem solved,
    I probably ought to look into a cloud-based subscription model. Why sell each
    set outright for $3, when I could charge users $1 each time they use a set? A
    perpetual money machine! SWEEEEEET!"
  created: '2012-09-26 16:53:19'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>Karl? A link to INDD1?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOops! Looking at fixing
    that now..."
  created: '2012-09-26 16:55:29'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>Are otf font with arabic feature work on adobe in design and
    illustrator Mac and PC computer?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBased on Adam Twardoch's
    recent thread: [[http://typophile.com/node/94478|Adobe InDesign/Illustrator CS6:
    get Arabic/Hebrew support and extra languages for free]] I would think that the
    answer is yes, but not out of the box, so to speak. Prior to CS6 I think you would
    need to explicitly purchase the ME version."
  created: '2012-09-26 16:56:43'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: I think it should be fixed now, I am hit and miss with the internal linking
    to posts, which could have something to do with an intake of red wine. As for
    InDesign 1, I only used it briefly and was transitioning from Quark 4.11, so there
    was a whole world of hurt involved.
  created: '2012-09-26 16:58:30'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Oldnick + Karl Stange\r\n\r\nTracking the Old(nick) sounds St(r)ange?!\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-29 09:38:56'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>Oldnick + Karl Stange\r\n\r\nTracking the Old(nick) sounds St(r)ange?!</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    am not at all familiar with other forums but I like the way that relationships
    develop on this one, it feels like a local (pub) where everyone knows your name,
    or at least your handle. I have yet to decide whether that is a good or a bad
    thing, it generally feels good though.\r\n\r\nPushing this back to the topic (at
    least a little bit), are there any clearly established guides to using VOLT, independent
    of this and Microsoft's site?"
  created: '2012-10-01 18:14:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Not a full VOLT guide, but perhaps a useful: <a href="http://www.tiro.com/John/FontLab-to-VOLTworkflow.pdf">my
    step-by-step FontLab-to-VOLT workflow documentation</a>.'
  created: '2012-10-01 18:46:42'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: Thank you, John. There are several very good ristrettos with your name on
    them the next time you are in London. A good bottle of red if you like too.
  created: '2012-10-01 18:52:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Sounds good, Karl. I should be in London 13-15 November.
  created: '2012-10-01 21:03:37'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: That works for me, I will email you off site to arrange something.
  created: '2012-10-02 10:49:06'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: "How i use single Adjustment in Arabic font Plz describe in detail. prompt
    response i will be appreciate you.\r\n"
  created: '2014-04-10 09:00:59'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: "Dear John,\r\nPlz above post consider."
  created: '2014-04-18 11:18:56'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: "I have very difficulty in this situation word is overlaping each other. My
    problems is to see below how i calculate width in volt Single adjustment menu
    plz answer this problems:  first is\" kay inital and bari yeh fina, lam init,
    middle hamza and yeh fina Meem init, jeem meddle dochashmi hay and bari yeh fina\"
    same as other words so you can see. How i solved and how calculate single adjustment
    menu table width define.  I will be appreciate for your prompt action. \r\npic[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Problamatic-Words_6446.gif]"
  created: '2014-07-21 11:15:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Yeh barree is very difficult in OpenType, because there is no way to kern
    the yeh barree against the letter with which it is colliding on the right, because
    of all the intervening letters. OpenType GPOS simply isn't a good format for handling
    this kind of problem (which is one that I will be discussing in my presentation
    at TypeCon next week). You can only kern adjacent glyphs, so in order to handle
    these situations you would need to have a contextual kern between the final letter
    in the previous word and the following space glyph, in which the context is everything
    up to and including the yeh barree. It's a nightmare. Also note that some browsers
    treat each word as a separate glyph run, so context lookups across word spaces
    might not work even if you made them. As I said, a nightmare. Oh, and if you were
    to build all of the separate contextual lookups necessary to handle all the variable
    spacing contexts, chances are that you would overflow the GPOS subtable boundaries
    and the font wouldn't compile. Did I mention that this is a nightmare?
  created: '2014-07-23 00:44:13'
- author:
    name: Bahman Eslami
    picture: 112268
  body: With the john's comment I think you have to come up with a design solution.
    That would be designing a shorter Yeh baree when the context behind it is short.
    So when you have a short word, the yeh should be substituted with a shorter yeh.
    @john is it possible or it's a nightmare too?
  created: '2014-07-23 03:19:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: That's certainly an easier solution technically, Bahman. We've done this sort
    of thing in non-traditional typefaces to avoid having the yeh barree collide with
    dots or marks below preceding letters. But in the traditional styles, how much
    do you want to corrupt their norms in order to accommodate technological difficulties?
  created: '2014-07-23 20:02:45'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: "I am work on Saleem Nastaleeq Font dot less How I Auto justified word kashida
    like \u0633\u0640 \u060C\u0628\u0640 I am work on dot less word bay_init+tattwel
    = \u0628\u0640 and seen_init+tattwel=\u0633\u0640  MS word is not present these
    words  if you suggest any way get these position which feature is support. \r\nBay
    \u0628 dotless  put nuqta by mark positioning like \u0628\u060C \u067E \u060C
    \u062A\u060C \u0679 \u062B   nuqta placing is good but when I bay_init+tattwel
    = \u0628\u0640 is not  auto present with justify.  When I type Bay_init with tattwel
    type  kashida\u0628\u0640What Problem and some time ligature place nuqta file
    is not compiled failed message. For example glyph 1-100 between sequence forgot
    and add between forgot glyph place and then put nuqta file is not compiled what
    reason when I did not ad missing figure like 67 and other number of glyph, file
    is compile best way. When I ad missing glyph file is compile failed message. What
    happened. My font is near to ready. Mane problem is kashida word is not get how
    to get? Any one help me. Plz check my New Saleem Nastaleeq Font and give some
    fruit full suggestion I will be appreciate to you. Second thing is ligature nuqta
    less when I diacritic mark file is not compile and compiled failed massage. Plz
    give me support and very easy way to learn that I understand I wait your kindness.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Final
    Text Tauruf-01-01-01_5328.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pic1_3478.jpg]"
  created: '2014-12-13 12:09:42'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: My problem is kashida word get in illustrator CS 6 rest of type in illustrator
    is very nice. I manually bay init tattwel= extend bay. I would auto adjustment
    extend bay how can I do.  I attached  trouble shoot pic.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Requird
    auto Kashida word_4107.jpg]
  created: '2014-12-15 11:27:18'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Saleem Ali > My font is near to ready.\r\n\r\n@ Your font needs QB http://typophile.com/files/QB3.3.pdf\r\nInterested?
    Email FlowerCrosswords@gmail.com\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-12-21 07:29:22'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: "Dear John hudson, Sergey Malkin\r\nMy Volt file is not Compile when insert
    new ligatures for nuqta placing  i use add positioning in anchor attachment this
    file, put on <rlig> My Group name is R_Liga-1, R_Liga-2,R_Liga-3,R_Liga-4,R_Liga-5
    and R_Liga-6 every group contain 250 and above glyph problem is when i insert
    R_liga6 file is not compile message i am very afraid lot of work in volt file
    weight 3mb i several time change anchor name i try tool option use extension look
    up and other way but file is not compile message.  Nuqtas_All_Ligatures up and
    down but its not compile. \r\n\r\nIf you are willing my fonts for investigation,
    John or Sergey thats solve these problems i thankful you whole life.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nIf
    i change anchor name file is compile its not good way because, i lot of work  above
    group any one have mention above  solution the critic  situation of  this problems
    if any quick response i really appreciate.  This pic is describe these problems
    obviously.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Nuqta all ligatures_3545.png]"
  created: '2015-01-21 06:29:33'
- author:
    name: erwindenissen
    picture: 113051
  body: "If you haven't solved the problem yet, do contact me and I'll look into it.\r\n\r\nErwin
    Denissen\r\n\r\nhttp://www.high-logic.com/"
  created: '2015-01-22 08:15:02'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "saleem Ali - have you got any glyph group empty?\r\nAfter removing all empty
    groups (and lookups with them) my test font magically compiled."
  children:
  - author:
      name: saleem Ali
    body: "Dear JanekZ ,\r\nI am remove all glyph group empty successfully compile
      and then recall missing glyph that's  compiler issue whats magic? I think my
      glyph go to Bermuda triangle that its disappeared. i try couple of time."
    created: '2015-01-24 17:15:32'
  created: '2015-01-23 13:20:29'
- author:
    name: erwindenissen
    picture: 113051
  body: I've taken a quick look at your font project, but couldn't find any cause
    for the compiler issue. I'm afraid there is no easy way to overcome this problem,
    but if you manage to find a solution, let us know.
  children:
  - author:
      name: saleem Ali
    body: "Sorry erwindenissen  i resend my problematic Project when i put  R_L_5
      group and show compile failed message.\r\n\r\nJanekZ  says:\r\nsaleem Ali -
      have you got any glyph group empty?\r\nAfter removing all empty groups (and
      lookups with them) my test font magically compiled.\r\n\r\nHe say absolutely
      right when i see group some of glyph is empty i remove all empty glyph and then
      save no compiler issue. when i all bugs remove and recall disappeared glyph
      and put  <R_L_5> Nuqtas_All_Ligatures and then compile  no compiled. what happening
      i no understand what issue in this project[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Compilation
      failed_4417.png]"
    created: '2015-01-24 16:50:37'
  created: '2015-01-23 17:14:39'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "I would try to do that in this way:\r\nSave your VOLT project ( e.g. AVolt.vfp
    )\r\nRemove your {R_L_6} group from mark feature. Try to compile - if it compile,
    save your project as AVolt_1.vfp.\r\nOpen again project AVolt.vfp. Remove all
    features but mark and remove all groups but {R_L_6}, {AA}, {BB}. Try to compile
    - if it compile, save your project as AVolt_2.vfp. If not find errors and repeare.
    When you have compiled AVolt_2.vfp project generate AVolt_1.ttf and AVolt_2.ttf
    files and extract feature files from them AVolt_1.fea and AVolt_2.fea. Merge these
    two .fea files and make your final font."
  children:
  - author:
      name: saleem Ali
    body: 'I would try to do that above way: but compiler issue maintain.'
    created: '2015-01-27 05:28:20'
  created: '2015-01-25 12:35:10'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: "@ erwindenissen,\r\nAny solved these problems for compiler issue. I hope
    you give good news for this font."
  created: '2015-01-27 10:30:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Have you turned on 'Use extension lookups' in the VOLT options? This is the
    first thing to try when you encounter an unexplained compilation failure, which
    are most commonly caused by subtable overruns, i.e. your GSUB or GPOS data is
    too large to be compiled to a single subtable. Using the extension lookups mechanism
    often solves this, although if the problem is with GPOS data this can be more
    difficult.
  created: '2015-01-27 17:50:08'
- author:
    name: erwindenissen
    picture: 113051
  body: VOLT fails to compile it with no good reason, so I'm afraid you've run into
    a bug (an internal limit). Basically it is now too complex. I hope you can make
    some changes (simplify things a bit) which allows you to successfully compile
    it again.
  created: '2015-01-28 11:44:15'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: "@ john said: although if the problem is with GPOS data this can be more difficult.\r\nabsolutely
    right bugs in GPOS. how solved these problems?\r\n\r\nThanks for All valuable
    comments my question is how many GPOS in volt? My ligatures is 1500 to 2000 and
    may be exceed amount. My volt file consist one GPOS in 1500 ligatures and i put
    some more add  encounter an unexplained compilation failure message as shown above
    pic,. Are you suggest GPOS make in volt 7 or above and different anchor name that
    above work flow is best, all work take 15 days and more, any have prior experience
    plz share me, again thanks for all and kindness."
  created: '2015-01-30 06:59:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Did you try turning on the 'Use extension lookups' option? Did that make
    any difference?\r\n\r\nThe subtable size limit is not some particular number of
    attachment points or lookup entries, but is a byte size limit. So you should try
    to make your GPOS lookups as efficient as possible, e.g. try to share anchor attachment
    points for different marks as far as possible.\r\n\r\nAn Arabic font that relies
    heavily on ligatures instead of contextual variants is always going to require
    more GPOS anchor points."
  children:
  - author:
      name: saleem Ali
    body: "I tray  'Use extension lookups' but no such as difference.\r\n\r\nHow i
      calculate bite size in volt? You know Any other software like volt where i compiled
      file.\r\n\r\nDistribute in different GSUB and GPOS  but not achieved my purpose.
      I try according by your second paragraph no solved my problems.\r\n\r\nLigatures
      must be include in this project that the nuqta placement and barri yeh positioning
      is best way to put nuqtas in ligatures,  instead of contextual alternate and
      nuqta placement is so difficult in urdu Nastaleeq. So i think best way to required
      some more frequently ligature include my project. I have no idea encounter compiler
      issue. \r\n\r\nIf you have some time for my volt project i can send your personal
      email. you are prompt response i am highly appreciated with your kindness and
      sympathy."
    created: '2015-02-01 09:07:42'
  created: '2015-01-30 23:04:13'
- author:
    name: Tomhenry
  body: very good <a href="http://www.huz6.com/">Huz 6</a>
  created: '2015-02-02 07:59:17'
date: '2006-06-13 11:18:06'
node_type: forum
title: Does VOLT Help in Developing Arabic Fonts?!

---
