---
author:
  name: Jerome Iveson
  picture: 111659
body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/equate_5313.gif]\r\n\r\nI've just finished
  this logo and some people don't seem to get it! I thought it was easy enough but
  would like to be sure."
comments:
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: It would be better if the word wasn't in the title. Having seen the word before
    opening, it was what I saw.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Jerome Iveson
      picture: 111659
    body: cheers I'll try and change it
    created: '2006-06-19 00:23:51'
  created: '2006-06-19 00:21:44'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: I read 'EQUATE'. Is that it?
  children:
  - author:
      name: Jerome Iveson
      picture: 111659
    body: yeah thats right it just gets worrying sometmes when someone asks what is
      Equals Quate!
    children:
    - author:
        name: Jerome Iveson
        picture: 111659
      body: Thanks for the feedback so far. it seems 95% of people get it. Thats a
        relief as I really like the concept. By the way its for an accountancy company
      created: '2006-06-19 08:51:30'
    created: '2006-06-19 08:49:13'
  created: '2006-06-19 00:32:35'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: even as a non-native english speaker i instantly got the idea and found it
    easy to read, and i think that it is a clever concept. just think about the fedex-logo,
    after you've once found out the trick you'll never forget the brand.
  created: '2006-06-19 01:03:30'
- author:
    name: Ampersanderson
    picture: 111498
  body: i don't find that confusing in the least. i feel it is a clear and smart visual
    message. don't change it.
  created: '2006-06-19 02:10:51'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: Totally agree with Thierry and I think it's brilliant.
  created: '2006-06-19 02:13:16'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "I understand it and like it (for the simplicity and strong message). While
    I DO understand it, I can imagine how/why people don't.\r\n\r\nI guess it depends
    on what it's for and how visually literate the audience are.\r\n\r\nWhat is it
    for?\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-19 02:32:56'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "I got it right away and think it's very cool.  But this audience is not made
    up of civilians.\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-19 03:08:24'
- author:
    name: TDF
    picture: 111673
  body: 'Very simple and clever. Good work! '
  created: '2006-06-19 04:12:13'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "I like it very much.   I hope you don't mind I had a break on your logo,
    I was thinking that a vertical bar on the left might work for your reification
    concept (the constructive or generative aspect of perception), and also it creates
    a mark which can be use separately from the logotype.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/equate_5314_4628.gif]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Jerome Iveson
      picture: 111659
    body: thanks Alessandro, I'd already tried that during the development process
      but thought it detracted from the = part of the logo although it does let you
      see the E easier. I thought this was important for the link to accountancy.
      I know what you mean though!
    created: '2006-06-19 10:54:40'
  created: '2006-06-19 10:23:16'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "the vertical bar does not help the recognition of an E shape. IMO\r\n\r\n\r\nAlong
    similar lines, perhaps this is something worth exploring ...\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\nSolid Creative\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Communication Design, Melbourne</a>"
  created: '2006-06-19 11:19:37'
- author:
    name: Phil Baber
  body: "I saw it straight away. I like it. The vertical bar actually\r\nmakes the
    E harder to see imo. \r\n\r\nPhil"
  created: '2006-06-19 12:11:38'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I really like it, but I had to think to get it\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-06-19 15:56:42'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: Jerome, I understood it immediately. I have the same question as Paul, though,
    who is the intended audience?
  children:
  - author:
      name: Jerome Iveson
      picture: 111659
    body: "Hi Andi\r\n\r\nThe company is an accountancy firm so the audience is business
      managers small and large, financial directors etc."
    children:
    - author:
        name: ryin
      body: "hmm, the fact that it's an accounting firm causes a bit of concern for
        me given that the source of peoples confusion is most likely the visual redundancy
        and phoenetic overlap between the symbol and first three letters...i certainly
        wouldn't want an accountant who unwittingly repeats and isn't precise to such
        a degree. petty and splitting hairs, but thats waht you want an accountant
        to do. \r\nso, although i find it clever, i believe it's too 'cute' and fussy
        to be appropriate. it's one of those ones to be proud of discovering, but
        better off not pushing if there is an uncomfortability."
      created: '2006-06-19 17:34:19'
    created: '2006-06-19 17:14:42'
  created: '2006-06-19 16:51:29'
- author:
    name: kitekey
  body: "My training is in electrical and electronics engineering, not graphics, and
    it's crystal clear to me, and I like it.\r\n\r\nI don't like the vertical bar
    because it means \"NOT\" in many programming languages (\"!=\" means \"NOT EQUAL\")."
  created: '2006-06-19 16:58:51'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: First glance got it. No problem.
  created: '2006-06-19 21:17:08'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "What about adding a solid vertical bar immediately to the <strong>right</strong>
    side of the equals sign? (To define the right edges of the three legs of the first
    E?)\r\n\r\n(Hope that made sense...)\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\nhttp://homepage.mac.com/mwebert\r\nmwebert@mac.com\r\n--------------"
  created: '2006-06-19 21:51:43'
- author:
    name: G T
    picture: 128201
  body: a bit late (and a bit rough) but what about this?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Equate
    copy_5531.png]
  created: '2006-06-20 01:32:03'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: This is one of those things that is meant to be read in layers. Some people
    will get it right away, but if they don't it isn't a bad thing. Jerome, stick
    to what you have. I think most people enjoy things with an "aha" moment in them.
  created: '2006-06-20 05:33:33'
- author:
    name: Mudan
    picture: 111312
  body: "Dear Jerome Iveson!\r\n\r\nYour first version was the best!!!\r\nReadable
    & understandable for the first sight.\r\nSo don't change it! :)"
  created: '2006-06-20 10:39:57'
- author:
    name: Beauclair
  body: "I got it at first glance \u2013\_reminded me of the <a href=\"http://www.bluewin.ch/\">logo</a>
    of a Swiss internet provider, though (upper left corner \u2013 excuse the messy
    homepage)."
  created: '2006-06-20 11:07:48'
- author:
    name: phil_garnham
    picture: 128148
  body: "I get it & like it!\r\nMy only thought is to maybe add a little weight to
    the '='."
  created: '2006-06-20 13:00:14'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "I like your original conception to use an Equal Sign as the letter E. But...
    I can understand the confusion of people not understanding it.\r\n\r\nThe Equate
    seems to come through to those that are educated. Unfortunately, that is not so
    true of the masses. Fifth grade educations only get a person so far in this world.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    you'd consider using the three bars to get the idea of the E across - and then
    one of the bars as an equal sign. Does that work for you?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/equatex_5313_5595.gif]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: kitekey
    body: "<cite>\r\nI like your original conception to use an Equal Sign as the letter
      E. But\u2026 I can understand the confusion of people not understanding it.\r\n<cite>\r\nThe
      Equate seems to come through to those that are educated. Unfortunately, that
      is not so true of the masses. Fifth grade educations only get a person so far
      in this world.</cite>\r\n\r\nPeople with 5th grade educations are rarely in
      a position to choose an accounting firm.  The extra bars make it more confusing
      while taking away the simple cleverness of the original.\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2006-06-20 17:29:50'
  created: '2006-06-20 13:25:23'
- author:
    name: pstanley
  body: I think the original version is best. I got it at once, albeit with a tiny
    "tick" of having to think about it, which is surely a good thing for a logo.
  created: '2006-06-20 13:51:16'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "hope this one geths through...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/equate_tim_4032.gif]"
  created: '2006-06-20 14:20:39'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: You know Tim, I'm thinking that looks more like "= Quate".
  created: '2006-06-20 15:51:00'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "quote - The Equate seems to come through to those that are educated.\r\n\r\nA
    very interesting elitist observation based on?\r\n\r\nThe original logo is the
    best\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-06-20 15:58:56'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: ">A very interesting elitist observation based on?\r\n\r\ntsk, tsk, tsk, we
    don't use the word elitist around here, we're all esoteric, remember?\r\n\r\nThis
    last one by Ahrens is interesting but the original one is still the most forward
    looking in terms of style. Very basic and cool.  And making them think just a
    little bit is a good thing, they'll feel all smart when they get it, and they
    will.\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-20 16:09:31'
- author:
    name: Jerome Iveson
    picture: 111659
  body: Based on comments i think I'll leave it as it is. I wasn't expecting this
    amount of comments. Thanks to everyone who has posted so far
  created: '2006-06-20 16:19:11'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "It might be my screen (or my eyes) but the open counters of your E look sharper
    on the inside than the outside corners, it might be worth trying that on the equals
    symbol to reinforce the origins of the letter, then again it might be too subtle
    to bother with.\r\nI did read your logo first off and it's a nice wordplay, I
    wonder if the kerning between =Q needs to be tightened a bit (or QU needs loosening
    a touch).\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-06-20 16:38:11'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "What about\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ms_equate_3907.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    initial ideas are all still there, and it might be more \"readable\" for the <em>general
    audience...</em>\r\n\r\n(In addition, the stem of the 'T' provides the extra help
    to form the <em>subliminal</em>  'E')"
  created: '2006-06-20 17:42:10'
- author:
    name: johnnygriswold
  body: Stick with your original. It works.
  created: '2006-06-20 17:55:19'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "i'd say stick with your origional but i felt like messing around also:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/equate_6661.jpg]"
  created: '2006-06-20 18:17:46'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "Here's a visual for my previously convoluted explanation...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/equate_3672.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\nhttp://homepage.mac.com/mwebert\r\nmwebert@mac.com\r\n--------------"
  created: '2006-06-20 18:37:36'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "Overall, I prefer Miguel's solution to the original for legibility's sake.
    Nobody is going to read that as a logo for \"EQUAT\" while there is some chance
    that he or she could read the original as \"QUATE.\"\r\n\r\nHope that makes sense...\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\nhttp://homepage.mac.com/mwebert\r\nmwebert@mac.com\r\n--------------"
  created: '2006-06-20 18:39:27'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Miguel's solution has something to it. In many ways it does what the original
    does while avoid all of the outlining, shadowing and/or other tricks which should
    be the goal. IMHO
  created: '2006-06-20 19:01:04'
- author:
    name: Ringo
    picture: 111223
  body: "Just the first one. It works.\r\n\r\nI saw it and my first thought was: What's
    this? \r\nIt struck me by its simple and powerful looks.\r\nAfter a split second,
    I got the meaning of it.\r\n\r\nIt's quite a blunt design. I like it. :-)"
  created: '2006-06-20 19:48:45'
- author:
    name: kitekey
  body: "Still like the original.  Miguel's solution is insightful, but has its own,
    potentially worse, problem:\r\nAn intelligent person notices that \"Quate\" isn't
    a word, finds the \"=\" and says \"Oh, it's \"EQUATE.\"\r\n\r\nBut, in a world
    with companies like \"Compaq,\" \"Equat\" (pronounced \"equate\" or rhymes with
    \"squat\") is a potentially valid company name.  In fact, www.equat.com is a Web
    design page.\r\n\r\nThey might google for \"equat accounting.\""
  created: '2006-06-20 20:42:45'
- author:
    name: AJ
  body: Don't change your original idea. It's clever so don't mess it up.
  created: '2006-06-20 20:58:46'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>An intelligent person notices that \u201CQuate\u201D isn\u2019t a word,
    finds the \u201C=\u201D and says \u201COh, it\u2019s \u201CEQUATE.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nAnd
    a (less) intelligent person notices that \u201CEquat\u201D isn\u2019t a word,
    finds...\r\n\r\n\r\n> <em>But [...] \u201CEquat\u201D [...] is a potentially valid
    company name. In fact, www.equat.com is a Web design page.</em>\r\n\r\nThat also
    doesn't hold as an argument. Google for 'quate' and see what you get..."
  children:
  - author:
      name: kitekey
    body: "> An intelligent person notices that \u201CQuate\u201D isn\u2019t a word,
      finds the \u201C=\u201D and says \u201COh, it\u2019s \u201CEQUATE.\u201D\r\n\r\nAnd
      a (less) intelligent person notices that \u201CEquat\u201D isn\u2019t a word,
      finds\u2026\r\n\r\n> But [\u2026] \u201CEquat\u201D [\u2026] is a potentially
      valid company name. In fact, www.equat.com is a Web design page.\r\n\r\nThat
      also doesn\u2019t hold as an argument. Google for \u2018quate\u2019 and see
      what you get\u2026\r\n\r\nMiguel,\r\n\r\nI apologize if it sounded like I was
      sharply criticizing your design.  Your idea was a very clever solution, and
      I liked it.  It was certianly (in my opinion) the best alternative submitted.
      \ You are correct that \"quate\" gets more Google hits than \"equat.\"\r\n\r\nMy
      intent was to point out that your alternative is also not idiot-proof.  I don't
      see either design as a problem, but it is fair to say that each alternative
      has some possibility of confusion."
    created: '2006-06-21 05:32:33'
  created: '2006-06-20 21:57:21'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Funny thing \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/unequal1_3685.jpg]
    \r\n\r\ndoesn't seem to work (sorry, done in a hurry).\r\n\r\nIt occurred to me
    because I just saw the campaign for the II week of sexual diversity on TV (in
    Brazil) and they used the unequal sign as a logo to represent diversity. Unequal=diverse,
    get it? "
  created: '2006-06-21 01:31:41'
- author:
    name: liquisoft
    picture: 111679
  body: "You're going to find that we designers love the idea because visually and
    symbolically it's simple but clever-as-hell.\r\n\r\nYou mentioned, though, that
    it's for an accounting agency of some sort, which causes a problem. Have they
    seen this concept yet? My worry simply stems from the fact that accountants are
    less likely to appreciate a clever logo and more likely to want some pretty typography
    with serifs and a few little swashes here and there.\r\n\r\nYou will also continue
    to find that some people get the word and some people don't. If this were a night
    club, it'd be one thing. But since it's an accounting firm, you'll have to make
    sure their title is clear and 100% obvious so people can take them seriously."
  children:
  - author:
      name: kitekey
    body: "[liquisoft]\r\n\u201CMy worry simply stems from the fact that accountants
      are less likely to appreciate a clever logo and more likely to want some pretty
      typography with serifs and a few little swashes here and there.\u201D\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
      only posting in this thread because it discusses the perspective of non-designers.\r\n\r\nMy
      background is electrical engineering, and engineers are considered to be almost
      as aesthetically retarded as accountants. I LOVE THE ORIGINAL DESIGN. I\u2019m
      a bit offended at your patronizing stereotypes of non-designers.\r\n\r\n\u201CBut
      since it\u2019s an accounting firm, you\u2019ll have to make sure their title
      is clear and 100% obvious so people can take them seriously.\u201D\r\n\r\nAs
      an entrepreneur (from the Old French for \u201Cperson who hires accountants\u201D)
      I would take a firm with this simple and brutally clever name and logo far,
      far, far more seriously than I would a swashy \u201CMary\u2019s Olde Tyme Accounting\u201D
      or a brain-dead firm that called itself \u201CCPAs Plus\u201D (in Arial or Cooper
      Black with a big \u201C+\u201D sign).\r\n"
    created: '2006-06-21 05:48:24'
  created: '2006-06-21 03:34:59'
- author:
    name: tomatej
    picture: 110502
  body: "Your original is the purest. It is quite poetic with its playfullness.\r\nCongratulation!"
  created: '2006-06-21 11:15:13'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: My problem is its too cute for the type of business you are creating a logo
    for. I don't want anything cute to do with my accounting. I want solid and safe.
    This is a case of overthinking the solution. Leave the cleaver stuff for an Ice
    Cream brand. I personally never use =QUATE for my accounting.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Jerome Iveson
      picture: 111659
    body: "The accountancy firm wanted a forward thinking name and visual brand, which
      was modern and proactive. Thats the reason I stayed away from the normal train
      of thought when designing the logo i.e. serifs etc. I was very suprised to find
      that in the UK at least no one had used Equate as a name for an accountancy
      firm. \r\n\r\nI'm please that people have taken time to post their opinions,
      all are valid obviously some more than others! I'll definitely post some of
      my other work its great to get feedback from designers and non designers alike."
    created: '2006-06-21 13:37:13'
  created: '2006-06-21 12:59:38'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "The electrician is sticking it to you guys! I love it!  Give 'em some more.
    \ That's what you get for saying crap like this:\r\n\r\n\"Unfortunately, that
    is not so true of the masses. Fifth grade educations only get a person so far
    in this world.\"\r\n\r\nI don't think you people actually know anyone with a Fifth
    grade education.  \r\n\r\nJerome, look what you started man.\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-21 16:35:58'
- author:
    name: Phil Baber
  body: "You can tell it's a good logo by how many people have \r\nposted here. "
  created: '2006-06-21 16:38:56'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "\"I don\u2019t think you people actually know anyone with a Fifth grade education\"\r\n\r\nEdel:
    why does it always have to be The People vs Edel Rodriguez? You talk about typophile
    members like they are the same, man. Relax, nobody's on trial here. So your CA
    cover has been criticised by some Typophile members. So what? Take it on the chin
    and move on."
  created: '2006-06-21 16:52:58'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Oh, lore, I have no beef with everyone here, my skin is much thicker than
    you think.  There's just so much talk here about the illiterate masses, and the
    uneducated folk, and hardly anynobody calls people on it.  It takes an electrical
    engineer to do so.  My parents both have 5th grade educations, they're the greatest
    people I know, so I'm sensitive about the matter.\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-21 17:01:27'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "\"I\u2019m a bit offended at your patronizing stereotypes of non-designers.\"\r\n\r\nThat's
    from kitekey, his/ her take on the matter, so I don't think I'm alone on this.\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-21 17:17:36'
- author:
    name: kitekey
  body: "\u201CI\u2019m a bit offended at your patronizing stereotypes of non-designers.\u201D\r\n\r\nYes,
    that was me.\r\n\r\nEQUATE\u2019s partners likely have graduate degrees, and their
    customers are also going to be educated, intelligent, and affluent people, hardly
    the 5th grade dropouts that someone mentioned.  I grant that the concept might
    not work for an AIDS awareness campaign for low-income populations or an ultra-low-price
    off-brand peanut butter package, but there are many non-designers who appreciate
    good design.\r\n\r\nIt also makes me angry, as someone who has hired designers,
    to think that someone might sandbag like this on work that I paid for.  I sympathize
    with the founders of EQUATE, who, having put thought into their name, browse portfolios
    and hire an excellent professional like Mr. Iverson request a visual identity
    that suggests a uniquely fresh, \"proactive,\" \"forward thinking\" positioning.
    \ To think of some of you (not Jerome) sneering behind their back, \"Oh, this
    is really clever.  But those stupid non-designers won't understand, so I'll dumb
    it down to their 5th-grade-dropout level.  Cooper Black should do it\" is infuriating.\r\n\r\nIf
    the client rejects it saying his customers aren't ready for it is one thing.  But
    to withhold your best work from your clients due to your disdain for their occupation
    is unethical and unprofessional.\r\n\r\nNo wonder sometimes we are so disappointed
    when we compare the portfolio with the designs we see.  Someone said that accounting
    firms are not nightclubs.  Well, if your portfolio is full of designs for trendy
    nightclubs, we're intentionally hiring you to look trendy.    We're not wringing
    our hands saying \"I sure hope that that nightclub guy can come up with something
    that is just as ugly, nerdy, and boring as all our competitors.\"\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-21 18:49:30'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Oh god, keep givin' it to 'em! :)  thanks, I couldn't have said it better
    myself.  Here is the real world talking to us, take some time to listen, and perhaps,
    learn some things that have everything to do with what we do.  The person here
    took some time out of their lives to write, the least we can do is answer.  This
    is not at all out of place in a thread about how our work is viewed by our customers.\r\n\r\nAnd
    LORE, this has nothing to do with my CA cover.  Will all my opinions on this site
    be tossed aside just because you have a wrong headed impression that I'm ticked
    off about something?  I may be confrontational, as is \"kitekey\", because we
    feel passionate about something.\r\n\r\nER\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-21 19:51:52'
- author:
    name: bokkah
    picture: 111697
  body: "1) I'd seriously consider adding another graphical element to boost the negative
    \"E\". It's too vague. Maybe a slight hairline in certain key outline areas. As
    a brand logo, designers will always tend to love \"smart  ideas\", as a company
    you'd want the logo to be a firm voice. Be pragmatic, not trendy. It's an accouting
    firm, not starbucks.\r\n\r\nsometimes, due to unknown reasons to anyone, a logo
    can be very abstract and still retain a strong anchor to a brand, unfortunately
    the amount of money you dump onto the public to get to this doesn't really benefit
    anyone but the marketers. \r\n\r\n2) the logo is geared towards a \"higher intelligence\"
    demo. Does the company want to chance confusing anyone else? as an accounting
    firm , I'm sure certain demos are still an interest, even though they might not
    have the capacity to get this concept without help. I regard everyone on this
    site with an above average intelligence, hence you haven't gotten any feedback
    from other demos. \r\nAsk friends, ask your mom, ask everyone you know to actually
    spell the company name out after they glance at it quickly, with no help from
    you , I bet many will be a bit confused and have to think. don't ever make your
    target audience guess, unless it's worth the effort. I don't think it is. Push
    this further. \r\n\r\n3) how strong of an anchor is the idea. the \"=\" play with
    words is a fun and whimsical effect. How does this relate to the company? Does
    it associate itself well with the brand or is it just there because it's cool
    for typographers and designers:) Basically make sure the design idea is adding
    to the brand, not just adding to the logo. \r\n"
  created: '2006-06-21 19:58:18'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "\"But to withhold your best work from your clients due to your disdain for
    their occupation is unethical and unprofessional.\"\r\n\r\nWell of course but
    if the work doesn't taylor to the target audience then despite the fact that the
    designer likes it the most it is not his best work... This is a very \"confusing
    logo\" because the main question, i suppose, is whethar the message is clear enough
    for the intended audience and If the clever execution is more important than a
    direct/ clear message.\r\n\r\nI don't think the logo works well just because It
    is not explicitly clear. What about when the name is used in copy? Are you going
    to sugguest they still use an equal sign or substitute it with an E? If you substitute
    it with an E then you don't carry across the brand identity so why not just have
    an E in the logo?\r\n\r\nIt doesn't matter if you have a 5th grade education or
    are the CEO of GodzillaSoft inc, the message should still be effortlessly clear.
    And I think people use the term 5th grade education meaning that you can never
    underestimate the stupidity of anyone, sad as it is true, not that they are trying
    to target specifically people with a 5th grade education.\r\n\r\nAlso anyone posting
    on this forum, electrician, business owner someone with a 5th grade education,
    etc. is far more computer/ design literate than the majority of the public. no?"
  created: '2006-06-21 20:00:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sorry, this is on-topic:\r\nJerome, try an \"E\" with <cite>two</cite> middle
    bars.\r\nOr maybe an \"E\" with a thin horizontal line bisecting the middle bar.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-21 20:12:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Jerome,\r\nI think your original is just fine as is. If, and only IF, you
    are concerned that it may not read at first, try reversing it in a box just for
    the first year untill your whole target audience \"gets it\". After you have established
    your brand, going back to your original will be a snap.  Here is a quickie example.
    Notice how the counters of the far right \"E\" reflect in reverse to the \"equal
    sign\" at left.\r\nBy the way, I don't think your design is \"way out\" or even
    too edgy for the accounting business. Don't sweat it, go for it.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/equate_3768.png]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ringo
      picture: 111223
    body: "http://typophile.com/files/equate_3768.png\r\n\r\nWell done! This solution
      doesn't harm the original, it only makes it stronger. Really powerful, less
      esoteric and hence more useful as a logo for an accountancy firm.\r\n\r\nIt'd
      definately choose this one, if I had to choose between all alternatives."
    created: '2006-06-22 17:57:45'
  created: '2006-06-21 20:39:44'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: I have to say I like Chris' last image. Best of both worlds.
  created: '2006-06-21 23:51:54'
- author:
    name: Rani
  body: "An idea I had was very similar to Chris':\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/equate_3768_5945.gif]"
  created: '2006-06-22 03:37:06'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: I like that too! And I don't think anyone wouldn't get it.
  created: '2006-06-22 05:23:55'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: ">\u201CMy worry simply stems from the fact that accountants are less likely
    to appreciate a clever logo and more likely to want some pretty typography with
    serifs and a few little swashes here and there.\u201D\r\n\r\n>\u201CBut since
    it\u2019s an accounting firm, you\u2019ll have to make sure their title is clear
    and 100% obvious so people can take them seriously.\u201D\r\n\r\nJerome,\r\nI
    think these blokes have a point.  I stayed a little late at work and polished
    something up for you, maybe the kerning could be worked on a bit.  *\r\n\r\n*
    \ Simply an attempt to lighten the load folks, do not take offense please.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/equate_6424.gif]"
  created: '2006-06-22 05:50:58'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "The way te is hanging out there, it almost makes Equar seem like a Spanish
    verb.\r\n; )"
  created: '2006-06-22 06:03:53'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "\r\nRani, on the logo you did, could you do another similar, but with the
    end E reversed direction to mirror the first ? \r\nSounds confusing but who knows,
    it may work.\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Rani
    body: "Like this?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/equate_3768_6343.jpg]\r\n"
    created: '2006-06-22 07:22:20'
  created: '2006-06-22 06:55:21'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "Yes, that is what I was thinking. Reality doesn't quite live up to imagination,
    unfortunately, but I still like it.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-22 07:39:06'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "Rani, what about contracting the black box behind the QUAT so it aligns with
    tops and bottoms of the characters... Thus is would only serve to define the negative
    spaces...\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\nhttp://homepage.mac.com/mwebert\r\nmwebert@mac.com\r\n--------------"
  created: '2006-06-22 12:57:03'
- author:
    name: Phil Baber
  body: "Every new version people have posted is simply weakening the \r\noriginal
    idea. The reason the original works is because of its \r\nsimplicity. Adding gradients,
    knocking letters out or adding \r\nanything else for that matter is going to weaken
    the idea.\r\n\r\nI don't think anyone here posted saying they didn't get it, and
    to \r\nassume that only the design literate would understand the idea is \r\nincredibly
    patronising. Designers need to give the general public \r\nmore credit. Many people
    may not be able to create good design \r\nor even recognise why some design is
    so bad , but in general, if \r\nthey are faced with a piece of good design and
    a piece of poor \r\ndesign* they will recoginse which is better. A case of people
    not \r\nknowing they need it until you give it to them I suppose.\r\n\r\n* I'm
    using good and bad loosely here as I know they are very \r\nsubjective terms.\r\n\r\nPhil"
  created: '2006-06-22 12:57:41'
- author:
    name: cjg
    picture: 109899
  body: Hate to address the subject after the horse may have been beaten, but isn't
    a clear, simple marque precisely what the client was asking for? If so, then there
    isn't a problem with your original design. Weighting and colour look pretty good,
    maybe tighten up the space before the Q and ensure that the bars on the "=" are
    the same length as the spaces in the E.
  created: '2006-06-22 15:29:16'
- author:
    name: Duckworth
  body: "How about sticking with your original iteration but using the application
    of the logotype to reinforce the E shape? It might look interesting forced tight
    into a left-hand corner or really tight left to the edge of the page (obviously
    leaving the negative space where the body of the E would be). That might help
    solve the problem, and, because it's not bleeding off the page due to the negative
    space, it shouldn't get chopped off by photocopies/faxes and anything else that
    doesn't output to the edge of the page.\r\n\r\nJust a thought.\r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2006-06-22 16:25:52'
- author:
    name: bokkah
    picture: 111697
  body: "I beg to differ.\r\nThe original logo is playing with the abstract and went
    to far.\r\nwhy take chance? do you like rolling the dice. I don't. Not with the
    CLEAR representation to the public of a brand at stake. \r\n\r\nAs a designer,
    I like the idea but question the use for such a radical subliminal expression,I
    doubt an accounting firm can relate to this effect. Actually, I'm quite sure they
    want reliability and straight-forwardness rather than the sublime.\r\n\r\n The
    logo is great but not for the client. the designer should consider making at least
    5-6 versions, each with a more clear logo and get feedback. Anyone that can gander
    their thoughts on why an accounting firm needs to communicate with a semi-subliminal
    logo can reply to fullofcrap@nuts.com\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-22 16:33:13'
- author:
    name: GraphicFuzz
    picture: 111520
  body: "<cite>It might look interesting forced tight into a left-hand corner or really
    tight left to the edge of the page (obviously leaving the negative space where
    the body of the E would be)</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is a very creative idea for letterhead
    or business card. But how would this work in a partial page ad, or on a pen, coffee
    mug, t-shirt, etc.\r\n\r\n...do accountancy firms give out t-shirts? If they had
    this sharp logo they might."
  created: '2006-06-22 16:36:11'
- author:
    name: Duckworth
  body: "<em>But how would this work in a partial page ad, or on a pen, coffee mug,
    t-shirt, etc.</em>\r\n\r\nThat depends on how your advertising works. On a mug,
    you could run it at a right angle, using the top of the mug as the edge. Anything
    with an edge you could use, but I've not thought it through totally, I must admit,
    it does add a layer of complexity to it all ;)\r\n\r\nMaybe it's one of those
    unfortunate situations where you have to put that approach behind you and keep
    the concept until you find a suitable time to use it. It's a contentious issue,
    whether or not to use it, and looking at the 70-odd posts on this, I'd be very
    tempted to go a 'safer' route.\r\n\r\nI do like the 'reversed out of a block idea'
    posted earler - I think it was Chris' idea. It keeps the logotype as a solid unit
    and allows you to get away with using it, but personally, if this were my problem,
    I'd put this concept to one side and have a look at something else. It's a shame
    because it's quirky and the design is right up my street (I wish I'd thought of
    it), but I think that as Mac_Designer put it above, the company needs something
    without the ambiguity (and therefore potential confusion) that this could create.\r\n\r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2006-06-22 16:48:03'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "The only alternative to the original that even came close was offered by
    Michael Ebert.\r\n\r\nBut I still like the original\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-06-22 17:48:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Mac_Designer is right: you have to be more conservative/obvious.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-22 18:12:52'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Please...\r\n\r\nKeep the original, it's brilliant."
  created: '2006-06-22 19:29:41'
- author:
    name: Stefan H
    picture: 109742
  body: "I agree with many others, the original version was just perfect. \"less is
    more\"\r\n\r\nCheers"
  created: '2006-06-22 20:00:48'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Now that we've clarified that for the poor guy...\r\n: )"
  created: '2006-06-22 20:26:12'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "lol oh well its ultimately his decision and then the companies. It's all
    just friendly advice...\r\n\r\n\"People in general ask advice not for the sake
    of taking it, or so that if they do take it, it is to have someone to blame for
    having given it\" :P\r\n\r\nSo you can just blame us for all the confusion if
    the client doesn't like it or you end up having to change it!"
  created: '2006-06-22 21:06:55'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Seems like there is a joke here somewhere..."How do you get 2 or more typophiles
    to agree on something?"
  created: '2006-06-22 21:35:55'
- author:
    name: Jerome Iveson
    picture: 111659
  body: "First off i have to admit I've always had faith in my original design. Secondly
    there are two many posts for me to reply to everyones differing views and ideas
    of what they think the final answer should be, although I'd like to.  Some ideas
    have weakened my original concept, some have come close to improving it in ways
    which I didn't even think of myself. Thanks to all who have taken time top post!\r\n\r\nAs
    I'm new to typophile and forums in general and as a whole have found this process
    an extremely useful tool to gain feedback be it positive or negative. I definately
    wasn't expecting people to be so passionate about it!\r\n\r\nI'll look forward
    to posting more in the future.\r\n\r\nJerome\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-22 23:00:27'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "That's excellent Jerome. Keep the faith!\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-06-23 00:26:43'
- author:
    name: caboume
    picture: 110905
  body: "Maybe this is too late..\r\n\r\nbut have you thought about using the symbol
    \"=\" for the last \"e\"\r\ninstead of the first?\r\n\r\n<strong>equat=</strong>\r\n\r\nas
    opposed to\r\n\r\n<strong>=quate</strong>\r\n\r\nThis way people still read the
    word pretty quickly and when\r\nthey see the switch, there is still a payoff."
  created: '2006-06-23 01:47:14'
- author:
    name: caboume
    picture: 110905
  body: "Damn, I just realized Miguel wrote the same thing\r\non page 1. Apologies!
    I'll have to read more carefully next time!"
  created: '2006-06-23 01:50:23'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "I am at work, and limited in fonts, so I used Gill Sans, probably not the
    best, but wanted to show a variation on Rani's design that struck me as worth
    thinking about. (Although perhaps a bit hackneyed.)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/equate_6596.gif]"
  created: '2006-06-23 20:41:36'
- author:
    name: kitekey
  body: "*sigh*\r\n\r\nThe original was clear to 95% of the target audience (smart
    rich people looking for clever accountants) and very clever.\r\n\r\nThe \"=\"
    sign in the new post is unclear to 95% of the target audience.  The backwards
    \"E\" has very, very negative connotations to 95% of the audience.\r\n\r\nI would
    NOT trust accountants who don't know which way to point the letter \"E.\""
  created: '2006-06-23 21:23:10'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Moderator's Note:\r\n\r\nI've moved this thread to the critique section,
    since it is a critique discussion about a new logo design in progress, rather
    than a general design discussion about an existing logo."
  created: '2006-06-24 20:27:35'
- author:
    name: SharQ
    picture: 111692
  body: "Even it's too late, what about this?\r\nProbably this idea might be not so
    original,\r\nbut i think it very legible, isn't it?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/equate_5434.png]"
  created: '2006-06-28 11:02:33'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Sorry for reviving a dead horse, but I found this an interesting thread.\r\n\r\nOne
    bit of confusion seems to be people thinking 'clever' is synonymous to 'highly
    educated'. A person can be clever and never have finished the 5th grade.\r\n\r\nThere
    also seems to be an assumption that people hire accountants based on their logo.
    I find that hard to believe."
  created: '2006-07-25 20:14:24'
- author:
    name: seasam114
    picture: 111795
  body: "I just want to add that the original was cleverly simplistic. I immediately
    read Equate.\r\n\r\nnice job."
  created: '2006-08-03 22:41:51'
date: '2006-06-19 00:08:47'
title: Confusing logo

---
