---
author:
  name: rayodayodesign
  picture: 111708
body: 'What is the best way to educate an editorial/publishing staff of certain design
  aesthetics/font choices... I am the art director and only one here in the art department
  and am having a heck of a battle with those blind to design aesthetics... '
comments:
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Give samples of well designed work and point them to sites with well designed
    work. You can only lead the horse to the water but you can't make him drink. You
    might be fighting a loosing battle, so pick your fights.
  created: '2006-06-22 21:05:51'
- author:
    name: mnott
    picture: 111664
  body: "People who are know-it-alls are hard to educate.\r\nI have been fighting
    a 2-year battle with a decision-maker-person who insists on using Helvetica for
    EVERYTHING. \r\n"
  created: '2006-06-22 21:09:05'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "Yea but if you give them 20 examples of good sites and throw in 1 crappy
    one they inevitably like the crappy one the best... \r\n\r\nCan we know more about
    your problem? Educate them on good design... well you can give them a reading
    list of a good hundred books lol."
  created: '2006-06-22 21:09:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Conversation about common goals would be my suggested route. Focus on the
    goal/s and think about how your design idea might ( or might not ) achive it/them.
    Explain what you think the weakness of the current solution is - beyond 'it sucks'.
    Think about the con side of your idea/s too. Sometimes change for it's own sake
    is expensive & does nothing. Change needs to be justified. And what Dan said.
  created: '2006-06-22 21:13:31'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "as for the Helvetica problem... \r\n\r\nMake a mockup of some project but
    make it really badly. Then duplicate the mockup but change the font to something
    like univers or Akzidenz Grotesk or whatever you want to use. (something closer
    to helvetica would be easier) *Also modify the new layout to make it the one they
    will choose!\r\n\r\nThen you give it to the decision makers and ask which one
    they like better. (Or if they know less you can ask which type they like better.)
    They will probably assume you are talking about the layout difference (not even
    noticing you changed the type) and (hopefully) choose the one with the font you
    want to use!\r\n\r\nJust get them to sign off on it so when you start using your
    font you will have their signature to fall back on ;)"
  created: '2006-06-22 21:15:21'
- author:
    name: rayodayodesign
    picture: 111708
  body: thanks- see, we have an issue critique next week and i am presenting how the
    design has changed and where i would like it to go in the future- i work for IN
    THESE TIMES magazine (www.inthesetiems.com) and before I got on board, their design
    was terrible. I have redesigned basically everything since then, but sometimes
    I feel like we can go farther with some of the layout- stray from the branded
    magazine style with our features/culture pieces- and this last issue i fought
    tooth and nail for it- and I won that battle. its just hard telling someone, no,
    this will work, just because you haven't been exposed to certain things doesn't
    mean they are bad... yada yada. i just fear future design arguments- and want
    to have a really compelling argument next week during the critique. thanks for
    any ideas and suggestions!
  created: '2006-06-22 21:16:33'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "Ahh then what ebin said. Make up a simple report explaining why you made
    all the decisions you made. And it would help to have examples of other magazines/
    publications that do the same thing to show them that other people are doing it
    and it's not a risk but the right thing to do.\r\n\r\nSimple and to the point
    would probably be best, like if on one page you had their design on one side and
    yours on another and a simple explanation of why yours works better."
  created: '2006-06-22 21:18:28'
- author:
    name: rayodayodesign
    picture: 111708
  body: "well the basis of my argument is \"why-design for a reason\"- which is some
    of the breakthoughs i have been pushing lately. if there is no justified reason
    for what is being done based on the content, then it shouldn't be done. the troubles
    i have root from them not understanding the designed interpretation of their content.
    For instance, there was a story about funding the left ( what everyone knows but
    noone will say) in our last issue, so I chose the font Heathen (http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/canadatype/heathen/)
    and noone understood and thought it would be non-legible. I used larger similar
    swashes and swoops on the page as graphic elements that complemented the font-
    and they asked if i should put money signs in them. eventually, i won the argument.
    \r\nI will definitely grab some other magazines that have similar styles and whatnot
    to the looks and feel i am trying to achieve, but its not easy, as they always
    refer to other lefty publications (which don't have the greatest design either)
    oy."
  created: '2006-06-22 21:33:19'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "How about:\r\n\r\n\"You hired me to be the Art Director of this publication.
    Can we all review my job description?\""
  created: '2006-06-22 21:34:15'
- author:
    name: rayodayodesign
    picture: 111708
  body: 'haha- well a favorite of mine is there is a reason there is an F in my BA
    and not yours... '
  created: '2006-06-22 21:39:08'
- author:
    name: Ken Messenger
    picture: 111387
  body: Example arguments are fine but then we run the risk of only allowing for derivative
    design work. It would be nice if we didn't have to explain every tiny design decision
    we make.
  created: '2006-06-22 21:49:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You have to explain everything in terms of solving their communication issues,
    not aesthetic issues. \"How things look\" is giving open season on the \"I like
    it/I don't like it\" mentality to the lay person. How things WORK is the logic
    that sells concepts.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-22 22:32:40'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Picking your battles is key. If they perceive you as difficult or a prima
    donna they will be resistant to your ideas whether they are good or not. You may
    have to concede on smaller points in order to make your larger points and preserve
    good relations. I always had to teach my design assistants this fact, which runs
    counter to the idea that you should never compromise your design aesthetic. Fact
    is, you work for them.\r\n\r\nAnother tip - put in something you know they'll
    want to change so you can give them that right away. My old boss for example hated
    green (how do you hate a color???) so I'd put something green in there to let
    him feel like he was top dog.\r\n\r\nNothing is more frustrating than \"I just
    don't like it\" or \"it's not there yet\" but it can be hard to get non-designers
    to be more specific than that.\r\n\r\nYou can show them mags like Rolling Stone
    or Entertainment Weekly (altho in truth I haven't looked at them recently..) which
    do wildly creative designs in the well but stick to their formulas for the front
    and backmatter. I don't think it matters if they are in different genres."
  created: '2006-06-22 22:52:48'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I don't play tricks on my department. I just espouse my philosophy when I
    get the chance and through patience, logic and successes I have changed some minds.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I give them to start off with is my best shot knowing the predispositions and
    the creative philosophy we have agreed on. It almost always changes, and not always
    for the worst.\r\n\r\nSometimes, sometimes (gulp), they are actually right.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-06-22 22:59:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"put in something you know they\u2019ll want to change so you can give them
    that right away\"\r\n\r\nAlexy Brodovich's   technique.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-22 23:29:59'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I could see this backfiring in a big way\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-06-23 00:04:12'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "The best way to talk to your boss(es) is to talk to your boss(es). I feel
    for your situation. Here's a great quote that is part of a short article entitled,
    \"The Power of Accountability.\" It is more directed at the boss, but I think
    those of us who are employees can learn from it as well.\r\n\r\n\"Open, honest
    conversations have to happen between managers when departments are interdependent
    and need accountability [ownership for results or non-results] from each other.
    Discussing difficult issues that may involve a group or team member who is a barrier
    is extremely important.\"\r\n\r\nYou can replace \"group or team member who\"
    with anything I think and still you find that communication within a company is
    key. \r\n\r\nI agree that you do need to find the right words to use. The wrong
    words can put your boss(es) on the defensive immediately and that won't take you
    very far. I enjoy the threads like these as I think there is a lot to learn from
    the experiences of others."
  created: '2006-06-23 00:25:44'
- author:
    name: bokkah
    picture: 111697
  body: "Part of being an art director is being pragmatic at times, and creative at
    others. there are times when you'll be right and wrong and times when they will
    be right and wrong. the biggest mistake I see art directors make is to try and
    change everything too soon. Change the way a firm or design house has been doing
    things for years is playing with fire. Of course they hired you to bring your
    expertise, but it doesn't mean throwing everyone in a loop. if your the creative
    director...that is to be expected, you should almost be nuts. As an art director
    you should be half-way, on both sides.\r\n\r\nthe creative part of this business
    is one of the key parts but it's not the only one. Accountants, AE's, junior designers,
    project managers and so forth, are all accustomed to the way it's been done. It
    doens't mean it's right, and your ultimate goal is to change it , but don't shake
    the cage to hard. time and patience. do you know how many times I've seen an art
    director insist on using certain fonts and the production studio doesn;t even
    have the postcript version, they in turn try and get the company to buy the font,
    which is useless unless the client demands that font . It's a viscious circle
    and you probably don't know how hard it is to appease a design sometimes. you
    just pick and choose a font, click and choose an image. The other's are left to
    color correct, prep the files for printer. sometimes the files that are at your
    disposal, aren't sufficient enought for certain print jobs, the agency won't budge
    and the production studio has to somehow juggle! \r\n\r\nArt directors that have
    had past experience in production work are rare but a gold item. they are the
    sweetest thing. I swear to you.\r\n\r\n- they know that putting white text in
    front of an image in quark or indesign, means the RIP will raster it at halftones
    and not spots, so the text will be only 150 lines per inch ( 300dpi) at max when
    it should be 1200dpi. \r\n\r\n- they know that making images radiant with RGB
    colors or CMYK ICC profiles that don't match the printer is fruitless.\r\n\r\n-
    they know that creating thin hairlines (.5 or smaller) in 4 colour process is
    playing with fire.\r\n\r\n- they know that the font family you chose, only has
    three fonts in the family , with no small caps, decent bolds, etc. too bad you
    like it, it's their problem.\r\n\r\n- they know that the insane layout you did
    in photoshop with gradients will take 12 hours to prep instead of five. the job
    is due for client approval in six. too bad it's their problem... you like it.\r\n\r\nthis
    is just the tip of the iceberg. I'm not saying you're not right about improving
    the designs, I'm saying that the technology, manpower and expertise in this business
    is real and you can't overthrow it in a few weeks. Patience and cunning my dear.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-23 02:13:21'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "I read most, but not all the comments in this thread and my first thought
    upon reading the initial post is to do a layout a standards guide then sit down
    with them. Walk through it with them and explain why each piece is the way it
    is and why it can't be something else and where the flexibility lies with each
    piece.\r\n\r\nThere is need for consistency in publication design, even if it
    means consistently different but it should still carry something over such as
    style. Lots of magazines switch up fonts and layouts but if you ripped a page
    from the magazine you'd still know which magazine it came from. For instance GQ
    generally uses different fonts but you still know it's a GQ piece from the feel
    of their use and photography. Rolling Stone is a classic example, although I've
    always found it a bit off for my taste."
  created: '2006-06-23 03:51:47'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Don't think of it as a "battle" it will put you on the defensive. Have confidence
    in what you're doing, but listen to them as well. Explain the logic and reasoning
    for your design decisions. Seek to educate. Don't be defensive. Give a little
    now and then. Don't lose your temper (I just did this a few days ago) bad idea.
    Throw some technological terms in there now and then to show that you're an expert
    (and watch their eyes glaze over).
  created: '2006-06-23 15:27:57'
- author:
    name: NiceTry
    picture: 110937
  body: "The general pattern I am seeing is to try a variety of approaches, and to
    keep changing tactics. See what works. \r\n\r\nTibor Kalman used to talk and talk
    about his designs at presentations, and go into great detail and descriptions
    before actually showing the work. After a while, the clients would be begging
    to see the work, and would be satisfied with almost anything. \r\n\r\nWhat usually
    works for me the brute-force method of handouts. Spend time writing a detailed
    presentation on the work, and the people you are up against will probably not
    read or understand it entirely, but instead take your word for it. Any dissent
    can be read as a misinterpretation of an irrefutable argument. Business people
    are deeply afraid of looking stupid in front of their peers, and will sooner lie
    than risk appearing vulnerable. Knowing really is half the battle. \r\n\r\nSo
    prepare a good argument beforehand, and be sure to bring up comparative studies
    in the legibility of bold, full caps and sans-serif type, and how each of these
    factors is affected by leading, line-length and word-spacing. That shuts them
    up quickly. Another good one is anything relating to The History of Type, 1810\u20131885.
    There is enough ammunition in there to wreck any counter-argument of personal
    taste if you have some good notes, and lull the antagonist into a hypnotic state."
  created: '2006-06-23 16:21:00'
- author:
    name: liquisoft
    picture: 111679
  body: "There have been a lot of suggestions as to how to sway the people who wish
    to resist your efforts. I think this is an effort in futility. You'll never actually
    MAKE a person understand your expertise. Rather, you can only do your job to the
    best of your abilility.\r\n\r\nTry making friends with these people instead of
    battling with them. Over time, when they get to know you really well, they will
    trust your talents even more and be less likely to resist your suggestions.\r\n\r\nOne
    thing most people hate is a know-it-all. You accuse these people of being know-it-alls,
    but I imagine they feel the same way about you. Just because I'm not a doctor
    doesn't mean I can't have opinions about the medical practice. Similarly, non-designers
    sometimes have suggestions that work and we have to at least hear them out.\r\n\r\n+\r\nRyan
    Ford"
  children:
  - author:
      name: M de Verteuil
    body: "<cite>One thing most people hate is a know-it-all. You accuse these people
      of being know-it-alls, but I imagine they feel the same way about you. Just
      because I\u2019m not a doctor doesn\u2019t mean I can\u2019t have opinions about
      the medical practice. Similarly, non-designers sometimes have suggestions that
      work and we have to at least hear them out.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe most compelling
      point I've read is the quoted.\r\n\r\nYou may tend to find that a lot of people
      have graduated with New Media and Fine Arts degrees, <em>honors students</em>
      even, who still can be horribly wrong in their design choices. Granted, they
      generally should have a better basis for their arguments than someone without
      the degree or diploma, but that still doesn't make their ideas irrefutable.
      No matter what position you have at a company, you are there in a vast majority
      of cases to take on a share of the workload that pertains specifically to that
      which you had experience and/or education in the field of beforehand. On some
      occasions you can enter the field cluelessly and have the employer train you
      to a competent level, hopefully. However, it is very rare when someone is hired
      to be the end-all-be-all of their position. Director or not, they still need
      to consider the other collaborators on projects. If a client makes a stupid
      demand in regards to the creative direction of the project, the only things
      you can do is either try to explain why you feel it is a stupid suggestion,
      try to understand why the client feels it's so important, keep quiet and accept
      it or tell the client that it's too bad and they can look elsewhere for a service
      provider because you refuse to sacrifice your integrity as an artist. In the
      last case, you  most likely should make sure that you aren't throwing yourself
      out the door with the client when you make such a decision.\r\n\r\nNobody is
      <em>always</em> right. Perhaps you need to make sure that you don't end up with
      a chip on your shoulder that prevents you from noticing when they might make
      a good decision that you may have missed.\r\n\r\nThe point made about research
      and statistics is correct as well. However I see it from a different perspective.
      If you want something, you can take the initiative to research and develop a
      concrete(as far as so is possible) argument on your own behalf. Should the other
      want to defend their point further, they can refute with their own research.
      While I'm a developer and protected by protocol from the volley of attacks between
      designers/AM/programmers, I can honestly say that research and statistics on
      a subjective argument supported only by case studies would definately incline
      me to produce a counterargument had it been me in that position.\r\n\r\nAs a
      designer, you are technically superceded by UI/IA/HI anyways. What you feel
      may look appealing, may not at all be appealing to actually work with. When
      it comes to legibility you are often going to be defeated on anything corporate
      or conservative. \r\n\r\nIn my experience, when something becomes a harassment
      to develop because of compatibility between browsers, I find the designers tend
      to be quite forgiving on the whole. They will give in some areas and not in
      others. It makes them a pleasure to work with. When all is said and done, that
      is the most important thing at the end of the day. \r\n\r\nIn my humble opinion
      at least."
    created: '2006-06-25 00:08:18'
  created: '2006-06-23 18:22:33'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Everybody thinks they're a designer. That's why diplomacy is needed. I don't
    tell marketing people how to sell, but they think they can tell me how to design.
    Especially if it's their dollar on the line.\r\n\r\nThat said, if you give the
    impression that you do respect their opinion and yet have a persuasive reason
    for presenting an alternative you'll go far. Catch more flies with honey."
  created: '2006-06-23 18:39:13'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "quote - Part of being an art director is being pragmatic at times, and creative
    at others.\r\n\r\nTruer words have never been spoken. I just have faith in myself
    and tell them what I honestly think. The end result is a compromise between my
    vision and the marketers. Which is how it's set up and therefore how it should
    be.\r\n\r\nIt takes time to win confidence, you need to be patient.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-06-23 19:08:49'
- author:
    name: michelemiller
  body: "I always think of this song, from \"The United States of America,\" 1961\r\n\r\nLook
    at the colors you chose \r\nThe best you could do I suppose \r\nA peppermint stripe
    with royal blue \r\nThe same as the British colors too \r\nNow how will we tell
    whose side is who? \r\nLook at the colors you chose \r\nWhy couldn't it have been
    puce \r\nLavender over chartreuse \r\nOr possibly some exotic shade \r\nA delicate
    orange, mauve, or jade \r\nInstead of the choice that has been made \r\nWhy couldn't
    it have been possibly cinnamon \r\nEverybody wants to be an art director \r\nEverybody
    wants to call the shots \r\nEverybody wants to be a flag dissector \r\nChanging
    all my stars to polka dots \r\nEverybody thinks that they're the final word \r\nOn
    what is strictly out and what is in \r\nHowdja like a flag that features fleur-de-lis
    \r\nOn ochre corrugated tin!\r\n\r\n\u2013\u2013Stan Freberg and Billy May"
  created: '2006-06-23 20:20:54'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "I have found reverse psychology to be invaluable in this regard...\r\n\r\nFind
    some competitor's piece that's terribly designed. Make a big deal of it to your
    boss, pointing out all of the awful mistakes they made: type, composition, palette,
    photography, etc. \r\n\r\nRinse and repeat.\r\n\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\nhttp://homepage.mac.com/mwebert\r\nmwebert@mac.com\r\n--------------"
  created: '2006-06-25 01:56:27'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "I'm not sure I understand fully. If the suggestions are out of place, tell
    them  otherwise (and if necessary show them). If the suggestions are valid, accept
    them, take them on board, then get over yourself - collaboration is key. You can't
    change the world on your own. :)\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Solid Creative</a>"
  created: '2006-06-25 03:24:17'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "\"You can\u2019t change the world on your own.\"\r\n\r\nYeah, you can, lots
    of folks have.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  children:
  - author:
      name: liquisoft
      picture: 111679
    body: "You need people to listen to you and follow you. This is not solitary changing;
      you are simply the catalyst.\r\n\r\n+\r\nRyan Ford"
    created: '2006-06-25 08:26:01'
  created: '2006-06-25 08:15:17'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Well yeah. Thoreau wrote, \"Most men lead lives of quite desperation.\" As
    per Paul's little icon, FEAR.\r\n\r\nIf you work for someone else you are obligated
    to play by their rules, if not, you are not."
  created: '2006-06-25 08:44:36'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Boy, there are so many ways to approach this topic...\r\nand so much that
    is useful has already been stated.\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>Design justification and compromise
    go far beyond 2D, print and media projects. I've sat in with a few architects
    while they \"wrestle\" with owners and board members, and those who are \"buying\"
    the building know far less about architecture and engineering, yet it doesn't
    stop them from saying what they like or dislike. (But I guess if your funding
    a multi-million dollar project you're going to want to have final input.)</li><li>The
    majority of projects (of any sort) that are developed by \"committee\" are rarely
    cohesive. There are generally too many personal agendas and diverse opinions to
    produce anything but a compromise. In other words, the solution to the \"problem\"
    was more focused on resolving group dynamics than the actual \"project\" at hand.</li><li>A
    \"Team\" approach to solving problems is more productive and ultimately produces
    something greater than any of the members could have produced individually.</li><li>
    Contemporary Western culture has a \"love-hate\" sense of those who are called
    \"designers\", and they have no real place in the hierarchy of <em>useful</em>
    professions. It's better to keep \"designers\" in the craftsmen/service category
    (because they're <em>skillful</em> but know less), than to consider \"designers\"
    as being a profession (where they know <em>more</em>, heaven forbid).</li><li>To
    <em>only</em> \"think as a graphic designer\" is to limit your own abilities and
    potential. If you look only with your eyes and a sense of balance and design,
    production and methodology, then you quite possibly will miss the <em>entire picture</em>.
    Who among us care to critique the design aesthetics of the mandala below? Not
    me, since <em>my comments</em> would be utterly useless in terms of the intended
    use of the piece.</li></ul>[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mandala4_3434.gif]"
  created: '2006-06-25 19:59:57'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Far too many corporate manager types have no regard for expertise because
    they have none themselves: they got their jobs because they were good at playing
    corporate politics, and nothing else. Dilbert's pointy-haired boss is an extreme
    caricature, but one based on all-too-real people.\r\n\r\nIf your boss doesn't
    respect your abilities/opinions/expertise, maybe it's time to look for a new boss..."
  created: '2006-06-25 23:09:50'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Yes, it's true... there are some managers who base their \"successful survival\"
    on a closed set of formulaic approaches. To venture beyond their safe set of pat
    answers is to put their own arse on the line.\r\n\r\nHey... but what's new?"
  created: '2006-06-25 23:22:05'
- author:
    name: M de Verteuil
  body: "I can definately see the past two points as being an all to uncomfortable
    reality for those who work in advertising firms, or any of the other fields with
    designers in larger firms.\r\n\r\nHowever, I think it's not so much true in those
    who work in web. The majority of the web-based firms ( in Toronto at least ) are
    not large enough for that to take place. While some might argue that in smaller
    firms, closeness of friends who began a project company together creates the possibility
    for an incoherant manager much easier than a larger firm where things are more
    regulated. I personally think the opposite is true. It may be possible for that
    to happen in the early life of such a firm, but for that firm to have any continued
    success it would have to rely on pure luck to get by with mismanagement dealing
    such massive blows.\r\n\r\nThat's not to say that halfassed mismanaged companys
    haven't ballooned into bigger companies in the past, but I think you can't use
    a 1:20,000+ rationale as a legitimate argument for it."
  created: '2006-06-26 12:34:34'
date: '2006-06-22 20:51:54'
node_type: forum
title: non-designers who think they know it all...

---
