---
author:
  name: ER
  picture: 111671
body: I think everyone needs a place to vent and talk about the issues of our very
  complex world.  This thread could help that discussion.  How to start? Well, are
  typographers and designers responsible for how their work, especially fonts, is
  used in propaganda and communications by governments, the military, and the media?  You
  are also encouraged to post pictures of your pets!  We can talk about them too!
comments:
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: I'll start off by saying that I feel a lot of problems are related to one
    culture not understanding another and trying to force one over the other; but
    I guess that is a rather oversimplified; if not vague and obvious answer.
  created: '2006-06-23 19:11:54'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: America, not USA, is that to spread the blame?
  created: '2006-06-23 19:15:03'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Oh, good. Like we can't have enough flaming and wars in threads about type,
    now we have to have some good old America-bashing threads launched.\r\n\r\nDon\r\n\r\n(not
    an American)"
  created: '2006-06-23 19:19:23'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "The song's called \"America, The Beautiful\", stop splitting hairs! :)\r\n\r\nI
    will put one of these :) at the end of everything. I think it keeps it light and
    not so confrontational.  :)\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-23 19:21:15'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "So, to quote Hrant, \u201CWhere\u2019s the type?\u201D\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-06-23 19:36:31'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I blame myself for all my problems.\r\n\r\n:) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :)
    :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :)
    :) :) :) :)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-06-23 19:43:15'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I don't see how this thread is relevant to this forum. There are plenty of
    political blogs out there. And tempers have run high enough lately on this site
    not to encourage more bad blood.
  created: '2006-06-23 19:43:42'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I'm with Patty. It is one thing for politics to be brought up in context of
    another topic, but this is not the place for threads specifically about politics.
    Go find another site/blog/forum if you wish, but let's at least try to keep Typophile
    on topic.
  created: '2006-06-23 19:55:29'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: I'm avoiding the CA cover thread for a reason.....
  created: '2006-06-23 20:06:23'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: I don't wanna say ITOLDYASO!... (ok, that is a lie)
  created: '2006-06-23 20:16:44'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Tiffany,\r\nThis is a good place for people to come when politics intrudes
    onto the type threads.  People could be sent here instead to discuss their issues.
    \ \r\n\r\nAbout trying to keep Typophile \"on topic\" there is a lot of stuff
    that doesn't belong here then.  Maybe you can delete \"who are the rock stars
    here?\", \"hey, what are you listening to?\", \"happy birthday, such and such\",
    or \"most recent issue of CA\", no type on that cover at all.\r\n\r\nHere is a
    link that brings type and politics together, maybe we can discuss that:  Do you
    think this protest sign is successful?  I think a better solution would have been
    to put the peace sign in place of the \"O\" in \"NO WAR\".  And the \"W\" seems
    a little strange looking.  Also, if people would have moved closer together, I
    think the kerning would have been more successful.  What do you guys think?:\r\n\r\nhttp://lmno4p.org/images/01.04/state_of_the_union.jpg\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-23 20:37:40'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: ">I\u2019m avoiding the CA cover thread for a reason\u2026..\r\n\r\nCrossgrove,\r\nThen
    you can avoid this one too!\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-23 20:38:55'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Hmm.... I see a new problem with my solution to this protest sign:\r\n\r\nhttp://lmno4p.org/images/01.04/state_of_the_union.jpg\r\n\r\nIf
    the peace sign moves over to where the \"O\" is in \"NO\", then one poor schlub
    is left holding the blank space sign.  What self respecting protestor would want
    to do that?  So therefore, I think they sacrificed typographical integrity for
    the needs of the individual to feel some sense of importance.  \r\nDo you think
    that is a worthwhile pursuit?  Are there times when a person's need to feel like
    they \"count\" gets in the way of good design?\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-23 20:46:23'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">no type on that cover at all\r\n\r\nno?"
  created: '2006-06-23 20:47:30'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Oh Tim, you got me there, good catch!  We could discuss if after a while
    logos on magazines are still seen as \"type\", but don't take this damn thread
    off topic!  This is politics, and the world, and bad Peace signs.  I beg you,
    please. :)\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-23 20:51:59'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "http://lmno4p.org/images/01.04/state_of_the_union.jpg\r\n\r\nI mean, this
    really reads as \"NOO WAR\" to me.\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-23 20:54:22'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Also, here's another link, not really about politics, but it can teach us
    some things about getting along.  And it does have type (which needs a little
    work).  \r\n\r\nI think Miss Tiffany will really love it and it will get everyone
    in a great mood for the weekend:\r\n\r\nhttp://cuteoverload.com/\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-23 21:00:25'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Tiff, I don't agree with you that there shouldn't be threads like this on
    typophile. in fact, i was contemplating making a similar thread dedicated strictly
    to politics to refer folks to if that's what they want to discuss, Edel just saved
    me some trouble. My hope would be that people who want to discuss politics could
    bring their discussions here and keep other threads on typophile clean of politics
    insofar as they deviate from the main subject of said threads.
  created: '2006-06-23 21:02:00'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Thanks Paul, my thoughts exactly.\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-23 21:04:49'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'The problem with threads like this is there is no context. The fact that
    politics does arise in other threads doesn''t always bother me as there is <em>sometimes</em>
    context for it. '
  created: '2006-06-23 21:14:39'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I agree with Miss Tiffany.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-06-23 21:18:33'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Well, this is here for people that forget about the context or don't care
    for it and would just like to talk endlessly about armed conflicts, or issues,
    that have nothing to do with the original subject.  \r\n\r\nYou, as moderator,
    can come in and say, \"this is very off topic, I will not censor you, but I suggest
    you can go here for random political thought:\", and paste the link.  Will this
    thread take up that much room that you can't bear its existence?  Why can't people
    loiter here, they've been loitering somewhere else for quite a while.\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-23 21:23:54'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I'm with Tiffany. We're people, we have opinions, and there have been some
    very lively off-topic discussions lately. This thread just seems provocative and
    unnecessary. The subject line suggested it would have some relevance to typography
    - for example we could discuss those hideous logos the networks use for their
    political features - but the opening post just seemed like another potshot at
    America.\r\n\r\nNot saying we don't deserve it but still..."
  created: '2006-06-23 21:25:20'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Tiffany,\r\n\r\nIt could also just be a place to hang out and say stuff like
    \"I like hummus, do you?\" or \"I like grape leaves with rice. But then again
    I love Unagi, Tako and Tekka-don.\"  That kind of stuff IS way out of context
    in other threads and you are fine with that.  Actually, I think you might have
    said that in another thread....  :)\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-23 21:30:03'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Patty,\r\n\r\nWhat about \"Those Hideous Logos\" the networks use for political
    features?  I think they're dynamic!  I mean \"THE WAR ON TERROR\" has a great
    ring to it.  And you know you gotta put some flames in there, the producers love
    that kind of stuff.  And it's really great when it comes out at you in 3-D, really
    grabby. I especially love the ones of FOX News, those are awesome.  How else would
    you do it?\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-23 21:34:40'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Edel, it is the subject matter that most bothers me. A discussion about politics
    in this crowd has proved before to be more than they can handle. \r\n\r\nThe music
    thread is fine as an off topic thread as music create claw bearing moods in most
    people. Same with food. \r\n\r\nThere has been plenty bashing of people and the
    politics which they support. I just don't see a reason for another thread to give
    those people more of an excuse."
  created: '2006-06-23 21:53:57'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Tiffany,\r\nI understand your concerns, and it has been my concern for a
    long time.  But you can't stop people from reading whatever may be said and replying
    with \"This Empire is crumbling\", or here's a link to a bbc website with something
    that has nothing to do with the topic, or \"here's a link to pictures of cute
    bunnies\". Random stuff that people are obsessed with.   These things come in
    and the ---- hits the fan. \r\n\r\nPeople are itching to talk about this stuff.
    They hang out here because they're with friends of similar interest in design
    so they may feel more comfortable than going to some wacko political site.  And
    maybe they feel with time they can enlighten some of their type friends, with
    whom they have so many other things in common.  They will continue to talk about
    politics and it \"will be more than they can handle\" here, or on another thread,
    so just give them a place.\r\n\r\n>Same with food. \r\nThe food talk went on in
    a thread about a magazine cover that had nothing to do with food whatsoever.  That
    was my point about people not sticking to the context, including yourself.\r\n\r\nIf
    this thread doesn't stick around then I'll go with Patty's suggestion of the cable
    news graphics, put them up and people can discuss politics in that \"context\".
    \ It'll just take me some time but in the end we'll be right here all over again.\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-23 22:10:38'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I think you miss my  point. I have nothing against random threads. I have
    something against threads which breed negativity.
  created: '2006-06-23 22:18:42'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "From what I see I think you mean that music or food are fine threads to have
    because they inspire or have something to do with people and their work.  I don't
    listen to music while I work, and don't cook.  I eat, but don't think about food
    while I work at all.  I do think about politics, and at times it inspires me.
    \ There might be some others that are inspired by the same thing and they should
    have a place as well.  Everyone's work is not quiet or apolitical or simply about
    aesthetics.  There should be room for them and their negativity, or what I like
    to call their reality.  \r\n\r\nBut, as moderator, you run the place, so it's
    really your decision to make in the end I suppose.\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-23 22:31:30'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Edel -\r\n\r\nSeems you're new to the Typophile scene but I think Tiffany
    and I and some others are particularly sensitive right now because there has been
    some real hostility on display here recently, some of it personal, a lot of it
    centered around politics. It's driven some people away which is a shame.\r\n\r\nSo
    your thread seems particularly provocative in that light. There's always room
    for good thoughtful dialogue, but it seems wise to at least try to avoid deliberately
    pushing those buttons.\r\n\r\nMaybe this forum needs a thread called \"can I vent?\"
    or something where people can go to blow off steam."
  created: '2006-06-23 22:40:21'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Tiffany, \r\nIs it the title of the thread that's bothering you?  How about
    something like this:\r\n\r\n\"What are you inspired by\"\r\nSo many things help
    us be creative every day.  For some it's music, or movies, or the scenery out
    our window.  And for others, it's politics and the state of the world.  So, maybe
    we should share, what are you inspired by?\r\n\r\nIt's all in how it's packaged
    I think, It has a ring of \"What are you listening to?\" I think that could work,
    Would that be o.k.?\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-23 22:47:28'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "> It\u2019s driven some people away which is a shame.\r\n\r\nyep, I'm right
    at that point, and I think many people wouldn't mind it a bit. :)\r\n\r\n>Maybe
    this forum needs a thread called \u201Ccan I vent?\u201D or something where people
    can go to blow off steam.\r\n\r\nThis is what I am trying to do here!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-23 22:51:48'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>Maybe this forum needs a thread called \u201Ccan I vent?\u201D or something
    where people can go to blow off steam.</em>\r\n\r\nHow about the Axe Grinding
    Forum. I still think religion and politics is asking for trouble, as I said months
    ago. Especially when there is so much misunderstanding of intended communication.
    It was too confusing for me to follow, but it seemed like no one was really getting
    anywhere in expressing themselves."
  created: '2006-06-24 00:21:46'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Edel,\r\n\r\nThe title of your thread is \"the world, politics, and typography\".
    Where's the typography? If you had opened the thread with a comment on, say, the
    use of typography in political propoganda I think we might have a lively discussion
    going on here. Going for the jugular with a line about America being to blame
    for the world's problems - true or not - just seems inappropriate to the topic
    you purport to introduce and to this forum in general.\r\n\r\nI'm bowing out of
    this one."
  created: '2006-06-24 04:33:38'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: ">don\u2019t let the door hit you on the way out.\r\n\r\nNow we're talking!
    that's pretty good for a personal attack, keep it up.\r\n\r\n>Going for the jugular
    with a line about America being to blame for the world\u2019s problems \r\n\r\nI
    mean, they are, look around the globe, they're taking over every country. If not
    through war, then through the Capitalism they export. And what is the tool of
    Capitalism if not Typography and logos and graphics.  So, to some degree, I think
    designers should take some responsibility for creating fonts that the military
    can use in their e-mails, papers the Pentagon prints up, etc.  Fonts are used
    by all the television media to promote war and mayhem on a constant basis.  So,
    I think designers should take some responsibility for that too.\r\n\r\nWhen you
    design a font, is there a way of stopping someone from doing something malicious
    with it, such as promote war?  \r\n\r\n> If you had opened the thread with a comment
    on, say, the use of typography in political propoganda I think we might have a
    lively discussion going on here\r\n\r\ncheck out the image I mentioned above:
    http://lmno4p.org/images/01.04/state_of_the_union.jpg\r\n\r\nIt's typography and
    political propaganda, and it's ineffective.  It's just confusing I think.  The
    peace sign kind of gets in the way.  It's a statement upon a statement.  Maybe
    just type would have read better, don't you think?\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-24 05:08:42'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Patty,\r\nI edited the subject line about America being to blame for the
    world\u2019s problems, now it partly blames designers.  I think it's more appropriate
    to the forum and could elicit better and more \"lively\" discussion.  Does that
    make better sense?\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-24 05:59:27'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: lol too much bickering in the thread about polotics so i stopped reading.
    Someone should start a thread on whethar or not it is right to start a thread
    like this. So that this thread can remain clear of the discussion of whethar or
    not someone should start this thread.
  created: '2006-06-24 08:47:07'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>Someone should start a thread on whethar or not it is right to start
    a thread like this. So that this thread can remain clear of the discussion of
    whethar or not someone should start this thread.</em>\r\n\r\nYeah, cuz around
    here we're known for keeping our threads as pure as the driven snow. Of course
    I don't know much about snow, being from SoCal. Mt. Hood had some good snow going
    on when I was there, but no one told which parts were driven, so I can't say how
    pure driven snow is compared to regular snow. But regular snow looked pretty pure
    to me.\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-24 13:32:20'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Edel,\r\n\r\nI have found your comments, interviews and samples of your work
    on other sites not only engaging, illuminating and insightful...\r\nwhich makes
    it a wee bit troubling seeing that insight turn to incite!\r\n\r\nThis thread
    is a little too rambling (yes, I've lurked) and has lost (though never had) central
    focus. Your contribution to the graphics and illustration world is too significant
    to be mal/misaligned through knee-jerk reactions, and I believe your contribution
    to this forum can be formidable when grounded with more of your own true being.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-24 16:59:34'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Norbert,\r\nThanks for the compliments, from what I can glean you are probably
    one of the old sages around here.  And yes, you're right, I'm not a raving loon.
    \ \r\n\r\nUnlike others here, I did not put up my work for discussion.  I found
    that it was being discussed and thought I'd bring something to the table of learning
    by giving some input and some of my \"own true being\", which is what I thought
    people where interested in. \r\n\r\n Instead, I have just spent a couple of weeks
    on a thread where my work has been called \"utter cliche crap\", the work of a
    16 year old, or a college freshman.  My opinions, which are farely educated ones,
    have been called those of \"someone half my age\".  Some of my simple questions
    have made some \"want to puke\".  So, I've lost some of my initial respect for
    this place.  Unfortunately, one thing I do, is that I don't leave an attack unanswered.
    \ Usually with some comedy, which at times isn't \"gotten\" by some.\r\n\r\nI
    thought a little satire would be in order and I started this thread as a silly
    provocation to just get these subjects going on here.  I thought it could become
    everyone's bathroom wall, a place they can come to vent so that other threads
    could remain cleaner.  But, hey, we're people, so let's keep on keepin' on hijacking
    other threads with our personal politics.\r\n\r\nI also believe my contribution
    to this forum can be an addition.  Since I'm actually a purchaser of what you
    make and have a track record of good work, I thought my opinions could bring something
    to the place.  However, sometimes it seems like people, even many that are in
    college and could actually learn something from experience, could care less.\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-24 19:27:23'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Thank you, Edel, I am heartened by your reply.\r\n\r\n> <em>So, I\u2019ve
    lost some of my initial respect for this place.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is a point shared
    by some other forum regulars. Myself, I've been here for scarcely over a year
    and found Typophile to be one of the few forums with depth and breadth for those
    of my ilk.\r\n\r\nTypophile has in the past and is currently beset with occasional
    but intense rants and bashing. You happened to enter during one of \"slug-fests\"
    and some of that blood lust leached into topics unwarranted. \r\n\r\nI wouldn't
    want to see <em>more action</em> taken by moderators, but I also wouldn't want
    to see active and viable contributors retreat from posting for whatever personal
    reasons they have.\r\n\r\nWhat has made Typophile such a unique site is the level
    of free assistance the experienced and learned contributors are openly willing
    to give any newcomer, noobie, novice, lurker, student, teacher, et al, without
    being condescending. It's tough enough for some of these folks to post a reasonable
    or legit question (silly or not). The fear of being bashed or trashed will only
    cause a dwindling down of actively inquistive membership, the result being a small
    camp of closed minded <a href=\"http://curmudgeons.blogspot.com/\" target=\"new\">cumudgeons</a>.\r\n\r\nSo
    I'm not really sure where this particular topic thread will go, or if the bashing
    will subside of its on avail. I just hope individuals such as yourself and others
    who frequent the forum, those with a passion for the craft, a love of art and
    who are in awe of life, continue to mix it up for the greater good of all."
  created: '2006-06-24 20:19:13'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "HEY!\r\n... and watch who you call <em>OLD</em>! ;-)\r\n\"Sage\" will just
    do fine, thank you very much."
  created: '2006-06-24 20:28:34'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "ahh I think pure as the driven snow means snow carried by the wind. Seems
    like it would be pretty clean, A lone snowflake drifting casually in the cold
    white winter with a gentle breeze. Sounds like it would be a good place to be,
    today it's 105 degrees here and I am outside coaching all day. But then I'd rather
    be in SoCal with a nice cool breese surfing in San Clemente... What was this thread
    about again?\r\n\r\nWheres the thread with Edel's work?"
  created: '2006-06-24 22:23:20'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Norbert,\r\n\r\nWell, when the \"sage\" comes in and says \"kid, take it
    with a grain of salt\", I listen.  So, there won't be any ranting from me anyomore
    I think.  Pretty hard, came from the \"if you get hit, hit 'em harder school\".
    \ I don't think there are problems here when you talk about the \"how\" work gets
    made.  It is a wonderful resource for everyone.  Occasionally the \"why\" we do
    it will come up, which I think is a great subject.  That's when things could easily
    go bad.  \r\n\r\nSo, when that happens, I encourage everyone to write \"Hey, get
    Norbert over here\", or send him a message to come over on the double.  I think
    that's the best solution I can come up with so far.  You could become a very busy
    man.  Or, we can just have better, more constructive, and thoughtful comments
    on the forums.\r\n\r\nIn the meantime, I hope this thread becomes more of a hangout
    for some abstract thought, mindless discussion, a place to figure out where the
    \"right\" side of the bed really is, if driven snow is really pure, whatever.
    \ This is the stuff that brings inspiration.\r\n\r\nj_polo9:  the thread you seek
    is somewhere, but I shall not guide you there from here. Seek and ye shall find.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-25 02:31:00'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>But then I\u2019d rather be in SoCal with a nice cool breese surfing
    in San Clemente.</em> \r\n\r\nWe recently had some \"experts only\" surf conditions.
    There was overcast most of the day in San Clemente, which makes for cooler weather."
  created: '2006-06-25 04:16:14'
- author:
    name: liquisoft
    picture: 111679
  body: "Type is a tool, much like a finely crafted horsehair paintbrush. We cannot
    control the use of our tools; we can only put love and care into them and hope
    they are appreciated and purposeful.\r\n\r\n+\r\nRyan Ford"
  created: '2006-06-25 08:34:15'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Driven snow covers the snow where I have spelt my name, its purity is ephemeral
    and concealing, and will not taste very nice:)\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-06-25 13:26:03'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: 'Ryan is absolutely right: type is a tool, which can be used and misused.
    A hammer is a tool, which is mightily handy for the purposes for which it is intended;
    a hammer can also, equally mightily and handily, be used to bash in someone''s
    skull. Do makers of hammers get asked inane questions about the misuses of their
    products? Maybe you ought to take your question to a land-mine manufacturers forum...'
  created: '2006-06-25 15:23:40'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "O.K., I'll venture in on this one.  I agree that type can be a tool such
    as a hammer.  What I see is that makers of hammers or land-mines generally do
    not speak or write of their work in very lofty humanitarian ways, such as typographers
    have done throughout history.  I could be very WRONG, I am just trying to learn
    something here.\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-25 16:44:46'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: When the only tool you have is a hammer everything starts to look like a nail.
  created: '2006-06-25 17:37:51'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Great observation, Patty.\r\nYet there are so many kinds of hammers.\r\n\r\nThe
    beauty of the claw hammer is the balance of Yin & Yang.\r\nThe same tool potentially
    utilizes both \"male\" and \"female\" forces.\r\nThe \"male\" force to penetrate
    and the \"female\" force to withdraw or extract. Or as my wife would say, \"When
    the man makes a mistake, the woman corrects it\". ;-)"
  created: '2006-06-25 18:46:24'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Darn, I was going to mention the two sides of a hammer thing and Norbert
    beat me to it.  Norbert, based on our \"talk\" I have a new face here, less confrontational,
    I hope it helps the dialogue.  Thanks :-)\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-25 19:33:39'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "\"If I had a bazooka, I'd bazooka in the morning. I'd bazooka in the evening,
    all over this land. I'd bazooka out danger. I'd bazooka out a warning. I'd bazooka
    out love between my brothers and my sisters, all over this land.\"\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.topps.com/Confectionery/Bazooka/index.html\"
    target=\"_blank\">Or something like that.</a>"
  created: '2006-06-25 21:30:57'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Speaking of Che, I was in LA yesterday, and somewhere near the I-10, was this
    little scene. Any idea who the other two yahoos are?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/trio_4239.jpg]
  created: '2006-06-25 21:44:40'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Well, we weren't really \"speaking of Che\", but the picture on the left
    is of Cesar Chavez, labor activist, United Farm Workers, etc., and the picture
    on the right is of Emilio Zapata, Mexican independence leader from the early 1900's,
    it's where the new Zapatista movement gets it's name from.  I wouldn't necessarily
    use the word \"yahoo\", could set the whole thing off again.\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-25 22:12:22'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Edel,\r\n\r\nBased on your avatar you must be one cool cat."
  created: '2006-06-26 00:36:08'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "well, everybody loooooves cats!  That's my kitty, ain't she cute!  And she's
    far from being any sort of rebel.\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-26 01:26:20'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "There's an off-topic thread we could start - photos of our cats. My gal's
    a rebel.\r\n\r\nThe other one likes to sit on my mouse (computer) which makes
    it kinda hard to work. Of course when a real mouse ran across my desk he slept
    right through it."
  created: '2006-06-26 02:04:52'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "\"Photos of our cats thread\".  Hmmm... runs the risk of being ten times
    as annoying as the political thread!\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-26 02:13:28'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>Norbert, based on our \u201Ctalk\u201D I have a new face here, less
    confrontational...</em>\r\n\r\nMethinks I've created a \"monster\" of another
    sort! \r\nLike the giant Stay Puff at the climax of Ghost Busters! ;-)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Marshmallow-man2_5328.jpg]\r\n\r\nInsightful
    confrontations good...\r\nInciteful confrontations bad."
  created: '2006-06-26 02:16:02'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "must.....type.....through.....the......laughing......oh, god, that's too
    much!\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-26 02:25:30'
- author:
    name: Stephen Lording
    picture: 109670
  body: "This is my first ever cat, Tigger, <strong>reading some type</strong> (Dutch,
    no less). Is that too tenuous a link for posting a cat photo on a type forum?
    :-) \r\n\r\nI wish I could say I spent more time discussing politics than my cats,
    but I can't. Which I guess is why I entered this thread at this point, and not
    before. I have found it an interesting read, however.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tiggereading_5945.jpg]"
  created: '2006-06-26 03:07:53'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Anybody else out there?  Come on guys! the answer to world peace is here
    \u2014 CATS! with TYPE!!!!\r\n\r\nJust no dog pictures, or it could get really
    bad in here again....\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-26 03:18:39'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: ER
  created: '2006-06-26 03:18:46'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Mine reads the NY Times magazine...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/yawning_5569.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tigerlily_3958.jpg]"
  created: '2006-06-26 03:57:38'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Come on, we've got something going! anybody else! CATS! and TYPE!  Take that
    cat you love so much, and an acceptable piece of type, strike a pose, and upload
    it!  It's where the party's at kids!\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-26 04:18:19'
- author:
    name: BlueJ
    picture: 110635
  body: "no wonder one of mines started to like this post too....\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MICIA_01_4400.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MICIA_02_4120.jpg]\r\n\r\nBut
    there's something about Type and Politics that I'm trying to find. I remember
    a while back I saw a photo or either a poster or a graffiti on a wall that went
    something like \"No revolution ever used a serif\".\r\nDoes anybody knows if this
    is someone's quote or just my immagination?"
  created: '2006-06-26 04:53:34'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "OMG that is so cute...\r\n\r\nI'm always trying to get them to watch TV when
    there's a cat on, but they couldn't care less."
  created: '2006-06-26 05:14:48'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Ladies and Gentlemen!  We have reached Post-Modern Nirvana! \r\n\r\nWe have!
    \r\n\r\nLIVE!  \r\n\r\nA CAT! in Beijing, CHINA! \r\n\r\nlooking at \r\n\r\nanother
    CAT in New York, USA, posing, with TYPE!\r\n\r\nCats (and Type) are truly the
    answer to world peace!!!\r\n\r\n(I gather your locations from your bios, if you
    are not in China and America, do not let us know, the concept is just too great
    to deal with things such as accuracy.\r\n\r\nAnd about the Serif question, please
    post an original post somewhere else, that question could throw this whole CATS
    and TYPE thing off-topic!\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-26 05:15:15'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "This video is pretty adorable too\r\n\r\nhttp://www.vimeo.com/clip:77426"
  created: '2006-06-26 05:27:50'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Actually if someone can help out with the \"No Revolution Ever Used a Serif\"
    question, that would bring some levity, and even more strange combinations, to
    the thread.  I've heard that quote, or seen a poster, but don't remember where,
    Any ideas?\r\n\r\nAnd remember, more CATS and TYPE!  I think the first was an
    Australia feline.  So that's three continents, four to go!  Anybody from Buenos
    Aires?  \r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-26 05:42:12'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CWej4ZbrbbM&mode=related&search=cat
  created: '2006-06-26 05:44:26'
- author:
    name: Stephen Lording
    picture: 109670
  body: "Jacopo - That is brilliant! \r\n\r\nPatty & Jesse - That MacBook video is
    hilarious, but the YouTube one had me crying. So funny.\r\n\r\nJacopo's shot remind
    me of when I was reviewing some footage I'd shot of my cat Comma climbing over
    the fence into my backyard. Comma came into the lounge room to help, and jumped
    up next to the TV to watch. Just one of those freak moments when a camera was
    on-hand and everything just fell bang into place.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/comma1_5767.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/comma2_4214.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/comma3_6477.jpg]\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    guessing that Comma wasn't recognising himself, but I think he knows that\u2019s
    a cat he\u2019s looking at. He\u2019d been next to the TV lots of times and I\u2019d
    never seen him reach out to touch something like this, so I\u2019m pretty sure
    he wasn't just responding to movement. I thought that cats worked by scent though,
    which is why they don\u2019t react to their reflection in a mirror? No need to
    upgrade to Digital TV yet apparently. \r\n\r\nOh, and sorry I can't help with
    the revolution thing. :-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-26 05:57:33'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Wait, you named your cat \"Comma\"?, Does anybody else find that, hmm...,
    unique?   That's a whole other branch here!  \r\nAnybody with poor cats that have
    been named after TYPE!.  Any \"Serif's\" out there, Any \"Ampersands\"? or just
    \"Ampy\"?  Probably no \"Helveticas\" right?\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-26 06:08:51'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: A cat named Comma, that's a typophile for ya.
  created: '2006-06-26 06:09:01'
- author:
    name: Stephen Lording
    picture: 109670
  body: ":-) Funnily enough, Comma was almost called Serif. (My iPod <cite>is</cite>
    called Serif though). If he'd been a girl he'd have been Mrs Eaves. I think Mrs
    Eaves would be a great name for a cat, regardless of what you might think of the
    typeface. \r\n\r\nUnfortunately Comma was struck by a speeding car on Christmas
    Eve last year, so I'm currently catless. I think I need to move before I get a
    new cat, and when I do I'm thinking he'll be called Baskerville (or Baskie for
    short). From a type point of view I'd prefer Garamond, but I don't like the name
    Garamond (Gara) much. \r\n\r\nWhat are your cats called?"
  created: '2006-06-26 06:22:19'
- author:
    name: BlueJ
    picture: 110635
  body: "Stephen - That's sad to hear, I had cats all my life (since I can remember
    at least) and everytime I lost one I felt horrible. He was indeed a gorgeous cat
    with, I agree with Patty, a great name.\r\n\r\nNo typophile names for mines, but
    the one I left to my mom in Italy is called A4 (being a standard size white cat...)"
  created: '2006-06-26 06:45:26'
- author:
    name: Stephen Lording
    picture: 109670
  body: Thanks Jacopo. A4, that's brilliant. I love it. I used to say that my cat
    was called Comma because he was small but important, and he reminded me to pause
    and to breathe. One friend I told that to replied, "Oh, I called my dog Louie
    because... because I called him Louie!" :-)
  created: '2006-06-26 07:01:24'
- author:
    name: BlueJ
    picture: 110635
  body: "Really inspiring, Stephen (I mean the \"Louie\" part, of course!).\r\n\r\nJust
    to add a little thing about Type and Revolution, I found this: http://flickr.com/photos/onetimeblind/137786209/\r\n\r\nI
    really like what they did with the writing."
  created: '2006-06-26 09:41:32'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "They don't like type, not even good notan:)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zizi_5598.jpg]"
  created: '2006-06-26 14:36:16'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Having a pet is a built in heartbreak - the little critters always die -
    altho it was more heartbreaking to hear my parents say they weren't going to get
    another cat after their last (Caviar, now there's a name) died because they didn't
    know what would happen to it when THEY died.\r\n\r\nMine are called Tigerlily
    (calico) and Fido (huge yawning tabby). I also call him Padre because he has one
    white daub on his chest like a priest."
  created: '2006-06-26 15:01:23'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Well, the \"moderator\" here goes to sleep and people start putting up pictures
    of their dogs!  Are you crazy!  Politics, Cats, and Dogs?  It's like pouring gasoline
    on a fire!\r\n\r\nMiss Tiffany, the real \"moderator\"/Orwellian figure :-), said
    when I started this thing\u2014 \" I have something against threads which breed
    negativity\".  Well, Tiffany, look at all this positivity!  Apology accepted.\r\n\r\nIf
    my legacy to this place is a thread where Typophiles can talk about the two things
    they are really itching to discuss, Politics and their PETS, then I go away a
    happy man.\r\n\r\nPlease, more pictures!  Some links to insightful BBC stories
    about pets, or politics, would be great too!\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-26 15:52:54'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://news.bbc.co.uk/cbbcnews/hi/newsid_4820000/newsid_4824400/4824462.stm\r\n\r\nYour
    wish etc.\r\nTim (not Winston Smith)"
  created: '2006-06-26 20:07:36'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Thanks Tim, \r\nA sad story, we'll miss Humphrey.  Yet I learned something
    new: Thatcher had a soft spot for cats?  Who knew?  \r\nIt's the perfect confluence
    of International affairs, cat fancy, and type (notice the \"10\" on the door)
    this thread needs.  Great find!  Keep searching everyone!\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-26 20:24:35'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<strong>Can't resist any longer. Here's... <em>Musche</em>. He can't choose
    between Harry Carter and Fred Smeijers.</strong>\r\n\r\n\r\n\u0192\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PICT1940_6346.jpg]"
  created: '2006-06-27 12:02:14'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>\u201CWhat are you inspired by\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nEven that turned into
    a bash, you can read it here:\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/5833"
  created: '2006-06-27 16:03:41'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Thanks Paul\r\nWow, and it turned ugly really fast!  A simple inspiration
    question.  Has anyone here tried an intervention?  Think we can keep this place
    an \"H\" free zone?  \r\n\r\nI think we can!!!!  We just need more cutie pie pictures
    of cats! and dogs! and parakeets!  It's all about those warm and fuzzy pets over
    here!  \r\n\r\nAWWWW!!! Look at Fredo!  I thought he was all high brow but even
    he can't keep his kitty from being a star!!!  \r\n\r\nHe...just...couldn't...resist!
    \ How many more Fredo's are out there just lurking.  Come on, post already!\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-06-27 16:48:44'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ggosm_6663.jpg]\r\n\r\nThis was a feral
    cat that we started feeding when he was a kitten, then the mother stopped coming,
    but this little guy kept coming. Little by little we moved his dish inside the
    house.  Eventually he started hanging out inside. \r\n\r\nWe got a kitty litter
    box and he just started using it; apparently preferring it to the outdoors. Now
    he is a member of the family. He is very well behaved. He seems to understand
    what we don't want him to do, and only needs to be told once or twice. And he
    always puts the toys we got him in one of the corners when he is finished playing
    with it. If only kids were so well behaved.\r\n\r\nWe're still trying to figure
    out how to get a flea collar on him. He's got just enough wildness left to flee
    when anything strange is happening. "
  created: '2007-09-01 23:19:29'
date: '2006-06-23 18:56:05'
title: Politics, Typography, and PETS!

---
