---
author:
  name: Don McCahill
  picture: 111486
body: What have you done for $200,000 lately? I was wondering if any of the designers
  on the forum would care to comment on the new Ontario provincial logo. You can see
  both the old and new logos here http://www.cbc.ca/canada/toronto/story/2006/06/23/to-trillium20060623.html
comments:
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: It is very easy to be critical. I would like to know why they decided to change
    the existing.
  created: '2006-06-27 15:47:20'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Why does a province need a logo anyway? Does anybody really think more people
    will visit  Ontario because it has an updated trillium? Does anybody really know
    what a trillium is?\r\n\r\nI could think of a lot of better uses for that 200
    large. Send it to Darfur for starters."
  created: '2006-06-27 15:50:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: That is too bad for me to even comment on.
  created: '2006-06-27 15:51:55'
- author:
    name: Ken Messenger
    picture: 111387
  body: Lemme guess. Somebody's brother/sister/daughter/son/wife works for the design
    firm?
  created: '2006-06-27 16:00:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's ironic that Ontario is one of the few places where graphic design is
    a registered profession, and yet its government gave the job of redesigning its
    logo to an ad agency!\r\nGiven the federal Liberal party's recent problems with
    advertising (Gomery Report) which led to the defeat of Paul Martin's government,
    this seems like a particularly bone-headed redesign all round. John Tory (\"Ontario's
    next premier\") must be lovin' it."
  created: '2006-06-27 16:14:28'
- author:
    name: TDF
    picture: 111673
  body: "\r\nI would have done it for half the price!\r\n\r\nLooks like a generic
    health care logo...\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-27 16:39:14'
- author:
    name: mr smith
    picture: 111553
  body: Well said, Nick. There was absolutely nothing wrong with the previous logo
    -- the '72 tweak being the best iteration. Is it too late get our money back?
  created: '2006-06-27 17:16:09'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: 'I don''t see the problem. I think it is sad that the critics don''t understand
    that a good Brand that should last them another 40 years would cost a lot. I like
    the new version for what it is, I''m sure they had a lot of design constraints
    and a committe to work with, yuk. '
  created: '2006-06-27 17:23:42'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I would have done it for $218,999. No problem\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-06-27 17:39:34'
- author:
    name: liquisoft
    picture: 111679
  body: "I don't see anything wrong with the prior Trillium(s).\r\nHowever, I also
    understand why they may have done it. They wanted something fun and dynamic to
    make the Province seem more exciting and young. What they got was something that
    doesn't quite look like a Trillium but doesn't look unlike one, either.\r\n\r\n+\r\nRyan
    Ford"
  created: '2006-06-27 17:47:34'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "Pattyfab,\r\n\r\nCanada helps Darfur plenty. "
  created: '2006-06-27 17:52:26'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: I don't believe it. That update looks like first year student design work
    - how utterly embarassing. I'm with you on this one, Ken. Looks like an extension
    of the sponsorship scandal. Ugh.
  created: '2006-06-27 20:09:26'
- author:
    name: Stefan H
    picture: 109742
  body: "\"I would have done it for half the price!\"\r\n\r\nHa ha, I would never
    have put my name on that \"thing\" It's a shame they got paid that much for such
    a poor result... Buuuuu!"
  created: '2006-06-27 22:20:26'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "OK,\r\n\r\nLet's make it next week's design challenge. Pretend there's $216,000
    waiting for you at the end of the habitrail. All of typophile can act as the bureaucratic
    committee reviewing your designs. "
  created: '2006-06-27 23:17:53'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: aight so the logo looks like something you'd pick up at the logofactory.com
    or something. Reminds me a lot like the German World Cup one though. Crap designed
    by a committee by designers who want the money more than caring about telling
    the committee to shut up and let them design. But then again for $216,000 i would
    have done the same thing ;)
  created: '2006-06-28 02:39:22'
- author:
    name: negativespace
    picture: 109845
  body: "I kept hearing about this from some friends and now I have finally seen it.
    Horrible. I too, also thought there was nothing wrong with the previous one and
    always liked it since I was young. Not looking forward to seeing this spread around.
    Good point that Nick made about graphic design in Ontario.\r\n\r\nI'd also out
    of curiosity like to see this logo with a type treatment. The old logo very commonly
    had \"Ontario\" to the right of it, and I could see the type treatment being a
    little awakward with this one in my head because of its shape; so I wonder how
    they have planned to tackle that."
  created: '2006-06-28 04:27:45'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: The old shapes were a little awkward  - in a way typical of over-reductionist
    logos that come from that time period. Kind of like what happened to the Prudetial
    insurance logo. But there was the seed of someting tasty & potentially great there.
    I am not sure I hate the new logo as much as everybody else - but I don't love
    it either. In any case; the new logo will likeley get replaced as fast as the
    old ones have been - so no worries! My advice to the next gal or chap to take
    up the brush - look to Japanese forms that are similar!
  created: '2006-06-28 04:50:45'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Thanks for all the comments (so far). The biggest part of the scandal is
    that the logo was commissioned by an ad agency with ties to the Liberal (governing)
    party. \r\n\r\nBut the hilarity continues: last night in the Toronto Star one
    letter writer decried the waste of money by suggesting that the government should
    have instead had a contest for high school students to design a logo, with first
    prize being a university scholarship.\r\n\r\nThat is what the public thinks of
    our industry ... something that high school students can do before they go to
    university.\r\n\r\nSad."
  children:
  - author:
      name: ExilicMind
    body: '...'
    created: '2008-03-05 18:44:16'
  created: '2006-06-28 12:42:59'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "You know Don, this just really gets me going. (High school students?! UGH!
    Why not kindergarten children?!)\r\n\r\nI remember the hubbub that was created
    when the Vancouver 2010 Olympic logo contest was first proposed and designers
    were on the fence over whether or not that was ethical. I couldn't believe how
    many people were jumping at the chance to do work for free, without any recompense.
    \r\n\r\nNick brings up a real valid point about us having a registered profession
    and the RGD have ethical guidelines that all designers should be adhereing to,
    supporting and promoting. When a contest is run for any kind of design, or someone
    does work for free, it undermines the graphic design profession - it doesn't do
    anyone any favours (for the most part). We educate our students all the time on
    avoiding doing work for free. \r\n\r\nDo we ask Doctors to make diagnoses for
    free? Propose possible prescriptions as part of a contest? Do we ask Architects,
    Engineers or Lawyers to submit proposals and re-works for free? Yes, I realize
    that there are all levels of design and art out there and yes, I realize that
    a lot of designs are created via committee, but we have a responsibility to our
    profession to guide people, educate them and sell them on what works. We also
    have the right to fire a client and walk away.\r\n\r\nThis monstrosity of a logo
    looks like it was sitting atop a photocopier machine and just as someone was about
    to photocopy it, the person moved the original sheet. I agree the original logo
    was a bit conservative but we're talking about a logo for a government - not a
    festival logo. Think about what the logo is representing and what it will be used
    for \u2014 and the fact that it cost more money than it was worth."
  created: '2006-06-28 15:00:44'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "It was mentioned in another forum that the new logo looks like three men
    sitting in a triangular hot tub. Now I can't get the image out of my head. \r\n\r\n(Oops,
    now you have it.)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: liquisoft
      picture: 111679
    body: "I'm laughing my ass off, right now. It totally looks like that.\r\n\r\n+\r\nRyan
      Ford"
    created: '2006-06-29 01:01:35'
  created: '2006-06-28 18:42:36'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: Ohhhhhh great... Thanks Don.
  created: '2006-06-28 19:34:04'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'I saw the 3 people in a hot tub right away. The committee wasn''t diligent
    enough.... '
  created: '2006-06-28 19:54:22'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "Oh man, are those bubbles in the hot tub?? Are those party beverages (that
    have been bought with tax payers' money)?!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/newlogo_5061.jpg]"
  created: '2006-06-29 02:10:35'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Andi, you are just killing me. All you need now is deeley-bobbers! It is always
    tricky when you get a figure into a logo.
  created: '2006-06-29 03:00:55'
- author:
    name: GoAround
  body: Nah, it's three people drowning in a bermuda triangle of bad design.
  created: '2006-06-29 09:03:53'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: lol thats great.
  created: '2006-06-29 12:46:31'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: lol thats great.
  created: '2006-06-29 12:46:31'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "I say go back to the original 1964 design. The new addition makes no sense,
    nor was it designed by anyone who knows what they are doing.\r\n\r\nI hate examples
    like this. $200,000 ... I could tell you at least 20 better ways to spend the
    money. One is investing in decent logo design.\r\n\r\nwhat a joke, clearly someones
    mate who wanted a high profile job (who happend to have mates in high places)\r\n\r\nin
    summary ... it's crap.\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Solid Creative</a>"
  created: '2006-06-29 14:24:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It looks like 3 Audi engineers being sucked into the combustion chamber of
    a Wankel engine :-)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.keveney.com/Wankel.html\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-29 14:33:25'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Chris is a rotory fan.
  created: '2006-06-29 16:17:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-29 19:01:59'
- author:
    name: negativespace
    picture: 109845
  body: "The PC party has started their website against it:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.savethetrillium.ca/"
  created: '2006-06-30 05:48:35'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: Thomas, you rock! There's a petition on there that all Ontarians can sign
    to petition Dalton McGuinty. Thanks!
  created: '2006-06-30 13:26:18'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "HA!! Now that's the type of intervention that's needed. Good luck with it.\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Solid Creative</a>"
  created: '2006-06-30 14:46:31'
- author:
    name: Rob Snider
  body: It's okay, but they forgot one element...[img:sites/default/files/old-images/to-trillium-new_6552.jpg]
  created: '2006-06-30 15:14:21'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: 'I just have one comment: wrong choice.'
  created: '2006-06-30 22:36:09'
- author:
    name: bokkah
    picture: 111697
  body: "for that amount of money...\r\nI hope they got a TV commercial and radio
    spots,\r\nplus annual reports, corp. I.D. etc.\r\n(not just the design but the
    print budget too would fit in under $200000)\r\nif they paid that much for the
    logo, it's a scam."
  created: '2006-07-01 02:59:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The outstretched arms are a visual platitude, a cynical attempt at crowd-pleasing,
    comparable to a political promise of less taxes. As HG Frankfurt concluded, \"Sincerity
    is bullshit\" -- and happy happy joy joy, aspiration and outreach are not the
    purpose of government (although they may be suitable for some government departments).
    This has certainly been proven as democratic governments have cracked down on
    civil liberties in the wake of 9/11 and 7/7. Regulation and enforcement are a
    responsibility of government, and by ignoring that aspect, the new logo becomes
    Orwellian.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nThe outstretched arms are reminiscent of that classic
    Canadian debacle of public art/design, the WW2 VC pilot's memorial on University
    Avenue, Toronto, known as <a href=\"http://spacing.ca/art-how-did-that-get-there.htm\">Gumby
    Goes to Heaven</a>, which is often referenced whenever Torontonians talk about
    bad public art.\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-01 15:01:33'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: At least I got my health card and license changed before the logo came out.
    :)
  children:
  - author:
      name: lindsay smail
    body: "The Toronto Star editorial today made me absolutely livid (and drove me
      out of lurking). I'm still in shock.\r\n\r\n\u201CBut there was a much cheaper
      way for McGuinty to revive the trillium without drawing bad publicity. \r\n\r\nA
      contest for schoolchildren to redesign Ontario's logo would have cost a fraction
      of the advertising firm's fees and avoided charges of partisanship. More important,
      the competition would have encouraged civic pride among the province's young
      people.\r\n\r\nThat truly would have been something to celebrate.\u201D\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2006-07-19 19:49:17'
  created: '2006-07-06 19:33:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess there is no alternative between $200,000 and school children's drawings--maybe
    some clip art?\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-19 20:38:15'
- author:
    name: Raja Sandhu
    picture: 111731
  body: "Those parody logos are hilarious!\r\n\r\nhttp://www.savethetrillium.ca/"
  children:
  - author:
      name: aluminum
      picture: 110335
    body: "\"alton McGuinty has taken the symbol - meant to unite us all no matter
      where we're from - and made it look more like the logo of the Liberal Party.\"\r\n\r\n...from
      that savethetrillium.ca web site.\r\n\r\nAlas, I can't find the 'liberal party'
      logo anywhere that looks like the new Ontario one. Anyone have a source for
      that?\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2006-09-19 18:31:20'
  created: '2006-07-20 20:56:09'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: ".gov design is often the victim of design-by-committee in the worse way.\r\n\r\n(speaking
    as someone who's a designer for a .gov)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-21 20:10:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That's not the problem here.\r\nIn the first place, the logo didn't need
    redesigning for the purpose stated, which is for marketing the brand of the province.
    For instance, Ontario Tourism \"yours to discover\" is one of many provincial
    departments which has its own ad-friendly branding, unrelated to the main provincial
    identity.\r\nSecondly, it was a poor choice to give a major re-branding to an
    ad agency.\r\nA design firm with a suitable track record would be a better choice,
    and would be better at dealing with design-by-committee, if that's the problem."
  created: '2006-07-21 20:24:25'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> it was a poor choice to give a major re-branding to an ad agency\r\n\r\nYeah,
    but the design firms are not big government contributors."
  created: '2006-07-21 20:45:13'
- author:
    name: steveluscher
    picture: 111905
  body: "I really hope the Ontario government decides to review its visual identity
    strategy; I will miss the old logo so so much if it disappears.\r\n\r\nIn the
    meantime, I've written an open letter to Dalton McGuinty, asking him to reconsider
    Ontario's brand strategy in a way that preserves and nurtures the brand equity
    Ontario has been building since at least 1972. You can read it <a href=\"http://graphicdesign.meetup.com/73/boards/view/viewthread?thread=1973786#5225340\"
    target=\"_blank\">here</a>:\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: fallenartist
      picture: 111868
    body: "Don't our names say much about ourselves? Why \"Guinty\" is so close to
      \"Guilty\"? ;)\r\n\r\nBTW - I like the old logo, but think the border should
      be \"O\" (Ontario) shaped in future version.\r\n\r\n___________\r\nAL\r\nwww.lenart.pl"
    created: '2006-09-19 13:11:16'
  created: '2006-09-19 05:19:21'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: I like the idea of redesigning the logo, do it again but make sure you spend
    the money. Money is fertilizer spread it around. Maybe the logo is intentionally
    bad so more Ontario designers will get their shot at making a lot of money. Money
    makes the world go round
  created: '2006-09-19 12:56:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Maybe the logo is intentionally bad so more Ontario designers will get
    their shot at making a lot of money.\"\r\n\r\nROFL!! A scream Dan :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-19 13:27:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Don\u2019t our names say much about ourselves?</em>\r\n\r\nI was shocked
    (!) when Dalton McGuinty entered the political limelight, recalling Preston Sturgess'
    The Great McGinty (1940), in which the protagonist is a tramp who becomes governor
    through graft and corruption. "
  created: '2006-09-19 15:56:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"through graft and corruption\"\r\n\r\nIsn't that always the way?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-19 16:26:33'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "https://canadaimmigrant.wordpress.com/2006/06/23/ontarios-new-logo/\r\n\r\nThere
    is a small one there. It is not an identical match, more of a subliminal simularity."
  created: '2006-09-19 19:05:42'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: An absolute embarrassment. End of story.
  created: '2006-09-20 23:36:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sig_4529.jpg]\r\nNot quite. Here's the
    signature of an ad in today's Toronto Star, with the new holly logo plus swoosh.\r\n\r\n[image
    removed]\r\nAnd here's how it would work on my driver's licence, a comparison
    of the present with the possible future (although I haven't added the swoosh).
    As expected, the new logo fails Logo Design 101 because it won't scale for practical
    design applications. Not a problem in a large ad by the agency that designed it,
    but....\r\nOf course, the card could be redesigned with the new logo to look OK,
    but the implication is that the whole established design culture based on the
    International Style, which is what the rank and file who implement design schemes
    follow, would have to be changed. \r\n"
  created: '2006-09-22 18:10:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Of course, the card could be redesigned with the new logo to look OK,\"\r\n\r\nThat
    would be alot of work just to accomodate an ugly piece of schnitzel like that
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-22 20:16:11'
date: '2006-06-27 15:30:38'
node_type: forum
title: Ontario's new logo

---
