---
author:
  name: dezcom
  picture: 109959
body: "Froggy--Inspired by a Typophile Battle Week involving ligature madness with
  Cooper Black. Froggy was my double \u201Cg\u201D ligature carried on to something
  else, a semi-serif. It is pretty early in the development but I am trying to get
  it ready for the Type Battle display at TypeCon by July 5th or Tiffany will see
  to it that I get worts :-)\r\n\r\nPlease let me know what you think.\r\n\r\nHere
  is round 2\r\nHere is round 3\r\nHere is round 4\r\nHere is round 5\r\nHere is round
  6\r\nHere is round 7\r\nHere is round 8\r\nHere is round 9\r\nHere is round 10\r\nHere
  is round 11\r\nHere is round 12\r\nHere is round 13\r\nHere is round 14\r\nHere
  is round 15\r\nHere is round 16\r\nHere is round 17\r\nHere is round 18\r\nHere
  is round 19 \r\nHere is round 20\r\nHere is round 21 below with Icelandic text and
  a new eth.\r\n\r\nChris Lozos\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Froggyface_3827.png]"
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Glad to see that PDF upload is working again.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-28 04:09:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hi Chris. I like the feeling of this generally as a friendly, readable display
    face. I can see it being used in ads a lot. \r\n\r\nSomething is a bit off about
    the top of the e; I'm not sure what. But the main problem are the diagonal characters--here
    vwy. To me they really stick out like sore thumbs--they don't seem like part of
    the same face. If you can find a more harmonious solution for these, I think this
    can be a winner.  "
  created: '2006-06-28 05:30:57'
- author:
    name: BlueJ
    picture: 110635
  body: "I'm way far from be qualified to do any critic, but I'd like to share some
    of my thoughts in the hope of being of some use.\r\nI agree with William about
    the general feeling and I think that there's something strange in the lowercase
    e's counter (it feels strange to have the upper right as an almost straight corner).\r\nI
    love ligatures and the ones you've designed so far are definitely interesting
    (I really love the \"gh\"), but the \"is\" and \"ts\" ones seem to slightly slip
    forward, especially when they're inside a word.\r\nAre you planning also to add
    lining figures?"
  created: '2006-06-28 07:12:26'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "I have to tell you, Chris, the \"f\" and \"r\" characters are just so beautiful
    - they really sing. There is something about the shapes of the counters that make
    the counterspace just as interesting as the actual glyphs.\r\n\r\nAlthough I love
    the slant of the \"y\", it doesn't seem to be playing nicely with the other letters.
    As William mentioned, it sticks out far too much. The \"f\" seems to have a bit
    of a funny slant to it as well - ever so slight, but noticeable in the smaller
    size. \r\n\r\nThis is a font on my \"Must Have\" list, Chris - elegant and different
    - inspirational!"
  created: '2006-06-28 15:12:11'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Chris this really is interesting and you shouldn't avoid this one. I can
    see it going much heavier as well as much lighter into almost a typewriter-like
    weight.\r\n\r\nI agree that the _y_ seems a little too stiff. I like the _v_ and
    _w_ though."
  created: '2006-06-28 23:59:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "THANK YOU ALL!!!\r\nAbove is PDF #2 with new v,w,y and some kerns.\r\n\r\nI
    am planning a range of weights Tiff and lining figures jacopo.  What is meant
    by \"slip forward\"?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-29 02:08:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Good catch Andi,\r\n\"The \u201Cf\u201D seems to have a bit of a funny slant
    to it as well \" \r\n\r\nIs this only with certain glyphs or all? It may be the
    typical illusion you get with italic f where it seems to fall forward more than
    the others.  I will try back-slanting it a tad but, as you noticed, it is less
    visible when larger and I need to find the ballance point.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-29 02:35:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "For those of you youngin's who never saw early 1950s kids TV, here is what
    the TV character \"Froggy\" looked like:\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/froggy1s_4593.jpg]"
  created: '2006-06-29 02:47:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hi Chris. I like the new 'y' better. But the 'v' and 'w' are still problems.
    To me because of the bent right diagonals they look like italic characters mistakenly
    dropped into a roman font. If you compare Souvenir, where he has bent diagonals,
    he bends both sides in the roman and carries it throughout the face, caps and
    lc alike, except for the z. \r\n\r\nHere I think the v and w might work with just
    straight right sides like the y, or with your rounded corner serifs, this time
    turned outward to the right. Even with this the face will have lots of soft features,
    and will keep its overall look I think. \r\n\r\nOn the caps, my feeling is that
    there are too many serifs. The most successful semi-serif caps I think are Rotis
    Semi-Serif's and he just put one top left serif on everything. Somehow it works
    in combination with other caps or lc. It seems to be quite widely used. The only
    problem is the M. To me the top right vertex looks painfully chopped  off in Rotis
    semi-serif, and even more so here. So I would try adding a serif there--against
    what I am saying otherwise. Or if you don't, in any case the right stem of the
    M can be lightened with benefit I suspect.  \r\n\r\nThe unique look of this face
    is that it manages to be soft but clean looking. Cooper Black is soft but not
    as clean. Sauna has something of it, but is more soft, with a lot of italic details.
    Here you have more sharpness. \r\n\r\nAnyway, this I think is a unique look that
    still can be very usable--something not easy to achieve, but you're almost there,
    I think. Very impressive!\r\n\r\nBut I think it needs more consistency and a little
    more restraint to really become itself. Dr. Berkson's prescription: take two MFB
    (Morris Fuller Benton) pills and they will do wonders for you :)  "
  created: '2006-06-29 03:19:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\" take two MFB (Morris Fuller Benton) pills and call me in the morning.\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!!\r\n\r\nThanks
    William, I'll take another look at the caps.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-29 03:23:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Oh, you quoted me before I revised for (appropriate) humility :)
  created: '2006-06-29 03:25:27'
- author:
    name: BlueJ
    picture: 110635
  body: "Hey! Froggy really looks like your gg ligature!\r\n\r\nI guess \"slip forward\"
    is not exactly a technical expression... What I meant is that looking at those
    two ligatures I have the feeling that they're about to (I'm sorry but I really
    lack the appropriate word) fall on their back, by back meaning the left side of
    the glyph.\r\nNow of course the more I look at them and the more my eyes get used
    so that feeling might just be something to do not take in consideration.\r\n\r\nI'm
    quite curious about how a lighter cut will look because I believe it will be really
    interesting as a text face."
  created: '2006-06-29 13:09:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "William,\r\nYour edit kills the joke though!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-29 13:09:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "jacopo,\r\n\"Now of course the more I look at them and the more my eyes get
    used so that feeling might just be something to do not take in consideration.\"\r\n\r\nAll
    of these things we see in type are \"illusions\" but that is the visual world
    we live in as designers. Some illusions are transient or are only affected in
    some rare glyph combinations and perhaps are not an issue.  Others may come into
    play often and need a correction--sometimes this is just a kern and sometimes
    a redraw is required.  The difficulty with a new typeface is that it has not settled
    yet in the viewers eyes and subsequent viewings may erase the problematic vision.
    I don't know if this is the case so we will let it percolate a bit longer :-)\r\n\r\nThis
    may well turn out to be a viable text face at the lighter weights. First I have
    to battle this weight through and hope you will help with comments on progress
    of all coming weights.\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-29 15:45:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "William,\r\nThe cap \"I\" can be confused with the lwercas \"l\" (elle) if
    I take out the serifs top right and bottom left. This opens the dilemma with the
    \"J\" and \"H\" so I am still fighting with it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-29 15:49:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "William,\r\nI also see a semi-serif as an iatly asymetrical face so the v
    and w seem open to more asymetrical treatment to me.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-29 15:51:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Rotis is a sem-sans and more geometric in nature. It has more the feel of
    a slab serif than Froggy.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-29 15:55:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">>asymmetrical treatment\r\n\r\nI think you can do asymmetrical, like the
    y you did. My problem is not so much with asymmetrical as with consistency. You
    don't have the bent right diagonal in the kxyz, nor any of the caps (though you
    can follow somewhat different rules there). That's why it sticks out to my eyes.
    (by the way, I think the x with the two squiggles is too fussy and needs to be
    simplified.)\r\n\r\nI pointed to MF Benton, because he took totally different
    styles like Broadway and Franklin Gothic and identified and carried through their
    logic with beautiful consistency and even color.\r\n\r\nOn the caps, like everything
    else, you can of course do anything you can pull off. Rotis semi-serif (not the
    semi-sans) is not geometric though not as modulated as much as Froggy. I was just
    pointing to it as one of the few successful semi-serifs to ponder. \r\n\r\nThinking
    about it further, I think the problem for my eyes with a lot of semi-serifs is
    that going half way, like on the current Froggy H, makes characters look mutilated
    to me. \r\n\r\nI think you could also go the other way on the caps: eg put small
    serifs on everything in the Caps except the thin strokes--you are almost there
    in your current version anyway. Or some variation, but with just leaving a few
    serifs discretely off, so the absence of them does not shout at you.  \r\n\r\nOverall,
    I think there is a danger in trying to do too many things in one typeface. You
    have achieved a really nice distinctive look with your lower case, and I think
    the 'Benton pills' would make you just create good caps that work with it, and
    not try to be too innovative on the caps. After all, Benton was going to do over
    100 faces--and you are so full of interesting ideas, you just might as well! "
  created: '2006-06-29 16:49:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Very good, as usual.\r\n\r\nComma (and tilde) worries me a bit - too thin/light
    maybe?\r\n\r\nI can see why you've done the e like that (like the c and the f
    to a certain extent). But why isn't the r like it? I would prefer c, e and f to
    match the smooth and curvy r and not have the angle which is distracting.\r\n\r\nIf
    your H is going to have outer serifs, then shouldn't it have smooth curves on
    inside rather than corners. Like William B says, looks like some sort of chopping
    has occurred.\r\n\r\nOn the gh ligature I would make the g dominate and lose the
    pointy curve in favour of a gentler one inside.\r\n\r\nj would benefit from more
    closely resembling the cap J which has a prettier hook.\r\n\r\nI think William
    B is right, this would benefit massively from an audit and then a rigorous drive
    for consistency between characters. Hope that won't make it lose its character.\r\n\r\nIt's
    a robust concept though and I think I have sounded far too negative.\r\n\r\nKeep
    going."
  created: '2006-06-29 17:30:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Nick,\r\n\r\nI know it needs much work and was just trying to force
    it along to make the July 5th deadline. As usual, haste makes waste.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-29 18:55:34'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: Do you think it'll sell in France?
  created: '2006-06-29 20:02:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Do you think it\u2019ll sell in France?\"\r\n\r\nPerhaps only the decenders
    since frogs legs are a delicacy there:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-29 20:04:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Or maybe I should post an ad for it here?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.frogg.splinder.com/?from=20\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-29 20:10:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Or perhaps here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.froggydelight.com/\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-29 20:18:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"On the gh ligature I would make the g dominate and lose the pointy curve
    in favour of a gentler one inside\"\r\n\r\nThat is the way I had it originally
    and it looked too much like a g waering a hat because of the large countewrspace.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-29 22:28:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"by the way, I think the x with the two squiggles is too fussy and needs
    to be simplified.\"\r\n\r\nI am surprised no one has mentioned this before. This
    is the glyph I am the least happy with. I shold have fixed it a week ago.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-30 01:35:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here is version 3 pdf with the caps revisited and the x fixed; the punctuation
    made bolder and a few other things I want to see if you can notice.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-30 03:27:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "I'd make the y like the v (ie with a point bottom left). People will get
    used to it!\r\n\r\nB counters: I would make the other inner corner rounded (not
    the top one) which will echo the penstroke. Ditto D which should have one point
    and only one round which will help distinguish further from the O.\r\n\r\nPrefer
    the H with less serifs but would try curving the arms (on the arms with serifs).\r\n\r\nI
    think the foot of the a should echo foot of u.\r\n\r\nLower comma slightly.\r\n\r\nTail
    of C shouldn't come round to horizontal. Take the cue from c and e.\r\n\r\nMiddle
    leg of m I would square off. You should only go round the corner if there is an
    associated serif.\r\n\r\ns looks very wide compare to surrounding characters.\r\n\r\nLeft
    arm of w should be more sloped to look a little more like v. It looks too vertical
    (even italic!) and is conspicuous in text. (3rd stroke also too vertical).\r\n\r\nKeep
    going - it's got a great feel in text - I find it really easy to read."
  created: '2006-06-30 09:50:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am still pluggin' away at it Nick and will try some of your suggestions.
    My () need some work too I see.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-30 14:01:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I like your changes on the caps, I think it works better now. On the L, would
    it be more consistent visually to chop the bottom left serif, and put it up on
    the right, like the I? \r\n\r\nOn the lc x, did you try using the shape of the
    left diagonal of the y as the left diagonal of the x? That would seem more logical,
    though I don't know if it gives problems. \r\n\r\nThis reads fine on screen, but
    at smaller sizes on the PDF it is hard for me to read. It might benefit from being
    tracked wider at small sizes. You might think about what sizes you anticipate
    it being used at, and adjust the space according.\r\n\r\nIf you don't want to
    have a straight diagonal on the right of the vw for the default of the face, you
    might consider doing one as an alternative. "
  created: '2006-06-30 14:19:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "William,\r\nI am still debating with myself about the y and w problem.  I
    know what I have is wrong but I don't want it to be just the typical treatment
    so I need to fight with it some more.  My guess is that I will just have to throw
    what I have by tomorrow at the July 5th deadline and continue working for a while
    before I am satisfied with it.\r\nI'll try your y to x idea as well.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-30 14:42:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I don\u2019t want it to be just the typical treatment\r\n\r\nChristian Schwartz
    said something very thought provoking to me at Typecon last year: \"You have to
    resist the temptation to put too much of yourself into a typeface.\" By that I
    think he meant that the face has to  become itself, with its own nature. Like
    a child, it needs to be respected as having its own character, and the designer
    needs to work to realize that nature to the maximum. Once you have some basic
    ideas, it starts to have its own rules and nature, and resists you doing what
    *you* want. \r\n\r\nSo I am not against wanting to make any particular bit innovative.
    But I think that past a certain point making innovation a top priority can get
    in the way. Here you already have a concept that is really strong, which is an
    achievment. From my point of view, your challenge now is just to realize the concept
    most fully and effectively. I think if you *at this point* forget about being
    innovative and just be a servant of the typeface, it will end up with a very distinctive
    look anyway, and may be more effectively realized. \r\n\r\nInterestingly, a typeface
    becomes *you* even when you consciously avoid it. Goudy argued against being personal
    in type, and throught we was not being personal. But of course almost everything
    of his came out shouting 'Goudy'."
  created: '2006-06-30 15:22:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I think if you *at this point* forget about being innovative and just be
    a servant of the typeface,\"\r\n\r\nThat is what I am trying to do.  I want it
    to be a servant of this typeface, not just a duplication of type solutions done
    with other typefaces. I guess what I am saying is that the best path is neither
    the conscious attempt at innovation nor the conscious attempt at avoiding innovation
    by just adopting often-used solutions lock-step. Sometimes just trying solutions
    in a naive way \"allows\" the typeface to bring its own force to bear.  As you
    said, \"Like a child, it needs to be respected as having its own character.\"
    \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-30 15:50:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Sometimes just trying solutions in a naive way \u201Callows\u201D the typeface
    to bring its own force to bear.\r\n\r\nGood point!"
  created: '2006-06-30 16:09:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't know why my previous post didn't take but I just posted round 4 pdf
    above with many of the suggested changes as well as adding a few diacritics and
    some German text.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-01 04:54:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Interesting. Nick Job was right the problem was not the v (version 3) but
    the w. You were right to stick with your guns on the v! \r\n\r\nYour new w fits
    well with the face and has its playful quality. But it is still a little awkward.
    Perhaps thinning the far right diagonal  will be enough to balance it. And perhaps
    changing its angle a bit. Another thing would be to go a different way and do
    two of your left squiggles like on the v and y, with thinner straight right diagonals.
    Perhaps you've tried and rejected that already. \r\n\r\nI was just concentrating
    on structural stuff, but I agree with Nick Job that the s is too wide. Perhaps
    for that reason I find the ligatures with the s distracting. I hope that users
    will also have the option of a regular gg and gh, if for some reason they don't
    want to go with your playful ones.  \r\n\r\nExciting to see you develop this,
    Chris!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-01 15:19:05'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I know it needs much work and was just trying to force it along to make
    the July 5th deadline.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat is this deadline???"
  created: '2006-07-01 16:09:49'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Chris, sorry i haven't been able to get to this sooner, but you've come a
    long way!!! I looked at an earlier PDF, but i didn't have time to give it full
    attention till now. I like the new caps, the lower serif on the L bothers me most
    -- it feels like a mistake to me. The tail of the Q feels like it was broken --
    like the O portion fell on it and it got squooshed. Do i see a rubby slipper on
    that foot sticking out from underneath? >^p i also think the top of the c and
    the arm on the r should have the same treatment. i prefer the r with the smooth
    inner counter. smoothing out the c would also allow you to smooth out the e, which
    looks funny to me with that crick the way it is now. the s and e feel too wide,
    as does the v. i liked the old w construction better, it was just a bit wobbly
    before. the new w construction jumps out at me as you try to read text. is the
    tail on the eszett shorter than on the f? if so, why? the cedilla looks a bit
    alien to this face to me. your best characters imo are the g and r. the caps are
    very solid too. the lc just needs some quirks worked out to bring it all into
    harmony. keep up the good work!
  created: '2006-07-01 16:35:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks guys.  The w still bothers me.  I think I was closer with the first
    one--back to the drawing board with it. Paul is right about that sorry Q too.
    The eszett is shorter.  I didn't know it had to match the f.  I was going to make
    the long s match the dblss. I narrowed the s some in this last cut, do I need
    narrow it more?\r\nThe July 5th deadline is the last day to send entries from
    the Type Battle week stuff for the TypeCon show. See the post from Zara: \u201CThe
    deadline for submission is July 5, 2006.\u201D\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/20704\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-01 21:22:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Whoops, I didn''t realize you''d changed the s. It looks fine to me now as
    far as width, but it''s lost a little of the sweetness that the old one had. Do
    the ''spikes'' need to be reduced or something to get the same look? Or the width
    of the thin part reduced? Type is so complicated! '
  created: '2006-07-01 22:10:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here is take number 5 pdf above. Most of Pauls suggestions: New w L C s dblss
    s ligs and other stuff.\r\nToo late William, I narrowed the s some more :-(\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-02 00:33:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I for got to mention a major change to the tail of the Q--it nolonger requires
    red slippers and a bark from Todo :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-02 02:19:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here is some German text as well:\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/german-frog_4616.png]"
  created: '2006-07-02 03:00:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "William,\r\nYes, the ligs will have alternates. I will probably won't put
    them in the Standard Lig set and just in the discretionary lig set--but, leapin'
    Lizards, I assume a true froggy lover would want to get a leg up and jump at the
    chance to use at least the gg :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-02 03:07:54'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: The L and Q and w are all improvements, imo, as well as the eszett, but you
    may want to run that one by a native german speaker. the s looks a bit squooshed
    now. if you can just sweeten up those curves a bit, i think it'll be just right.
  created: '2006-07-02 08:04:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Paul, I'll try not to be so s-oteric :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-02 13:38:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Paul, I worked on the s, here is a png to start:\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/s-frog_3558.png]"
  created: '2006-07-02 14:36:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Looking at the old and new s, the top of the old was a bit more open and
    a bit longer. Would this get the ''sweetness'' without the excessive width? The
    latest looks too much like Froggy swallowed a Palatino pill! '
  created: '2006-07-02 15:36:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Oh God! Not Palatino! (my least liked font).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-02 16:14:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I added a PDF with the new \"s\" above.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-02 16:22:05'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: the upper portion of the s does look much smaller than the bottom portion.
    i think maybe extending the upper stroke out <em>a bit</em> more could correct
    this?
  created: '2006-07-02 16:32:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Paul!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-02 17:00:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I think you solved the 's'. So Froggy won't get sick! \r\n\r\nWould keeping
    the current shape of the 'w' and thinning the right most stroke work?"
  created: '2006-07-02 17:56:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Paul,\r\nHere is the s again with the top extended right a bit and a bit
    more curve smoothing.  I did the s ligs to match this time. (see PDF #7 above)\r\n\r\nWilliam,\r\nGlad
    to see no more \"s\" pills are needed :-) \r\nI started the w the way you said
    and it just looked wrong.  It fell off in color and did not match the v either
    so I did it this way.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-02 18:14:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Oh boy am I a trouble maker. I think maybe Paul cross-posted with your #6
    PDF. At any rate I prefer #6 to #7. I hereby resolve not to think about Froggy''s
    ''s''. (Boy does that sound weird!)'
  created: '2006-07-02 18:57:13'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'Chris, i think you overdid it on the last s. when i emphasized "a bit" in
    my last post, i meant only the slightest bit. i think you took my suggestion too
    far for #7.'
  created: '2006-07-02 19:36:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks to both of you :-)\r\nI saw the s as problematic afetrwards and just
    changed it again.  Look at this PNG:\r\nPDF coming in a minute.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/s-frog2_4393.png]"
  created: '2006-07-02 19:53:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "PDF 8 is up\r\n\r\nBy the way Paul, Dan Reynolds just confirmed your dblss
    theory of matching the stem of the f so you were right on about it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-02 20:01:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The s really works now. The polishing effort is really paying off--it just
    gets better. \r\n\r\nBy the way, I checked out Fedra sans, which also has a decending
    f, and is a real 'polygot' face. It also has the descending eszett, confirming
    Paul and Dan. "
  created: '2006-07-02 20:31:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Whew, glad my s-capades are done for now :-) Now I can move on to more eszetic
    things :-)\r\n\r\nThanks to all of you! Sorry for the rapid-fire versions.  I
    should have waited to smelll the roses :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-02 20:42:41'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: not picking, william, but it's polygLot, fyi. many voices.
  created: '2006-07-02 20:53:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Instead of Polygot a cracker? :-)\r\n\r\nFor your amusement, here is Froggy's
    take as the new cover art for GQ magazine:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GQ-cover_5556.png]"
  created: '2006-07-02 21:04:27'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "This is a weird little number! It initially made me think of Heinekin, (that
    happy 'e'), but that passed. I am  looking at pdf 8.\r\n\r\nI think the assymetrical
    serif treatment is suitable. But why is the bottom right serif on the h i l m
    n r slightly curved, whereas the a d q is sharp? It seems to me that a d q are
    prime candidates for a softer touch. The upper internal curves of B D P R are
    a bit funny, although I suppose they are modelled heavily from the diagonal stroke
    contrast of the O. The three different stroke endings on the m are interesting,
    the progression from square to curved seif is nice. But does it work? LC r is
    rotating anti-clockwise when it sits alone, and a little more in text. The text
    settings have a slight bottom right to top left flow, which is up to you to decide
    whether you like it or not!\r\n\r\nOtherwise, I think it is a great typeface.
    The italics and lighter weights will be nice to see.\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2006-07-02 22:11:33'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "-W- The last stem seems angled a little to far to the right.\r\n-X- The waist
    seems a hair too high.\r\n-e- the counter seems out of place. I enjoy it, there's
    something nice about it, but maybe it needs to be exaggerated a little more.\r\n-g-
    I think the ear needs a little more finesse or finessing. Or, maybe it is just
    a hair wide?\r\n-w- there is still something off here. a little wide. maybe the
    curve on the last stem needs to go a little higher so the straight is not as long.
    that stems works in the -v- but it isn't quite working in the -w-.\r\n\r\nDez,
    you're going to have a \"normal\" -g- and -h- right? And allow us to have a disconnect
    -t- and -h-? And -i- and -s-. I find those ligatures off. Nothing personal. JFP's
    Costa has a ch ligature that I don't like either. There is something odd about
    the joining being at the bottom. (or something.)\r\n\r\nOverall I think your numerals
    (figures) are a little to large. Only by a hair though.\r\n\r\nKris, I see the
    same thing as you in the lowercase -r-. I think it is a visual trick caused by
    the top serif facing left and the bottom curving under. But, I don't think I'd
    try to correct it as I don't see it when it is in formation with the other letters."
  created: '2006-07-02 22:55:02'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: chris, i hafta agree with tiff about the w but disagree about the ear of the
    g -- i think it's perfect. in fact, i was checking back to see if you could give
    us an alternate Q that echos the g's ear as it's tail!
  created: '2006-07-03 03:00:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here is one last shot at the errant w for your comment.  I also changed the
    q as per kris and made a new Q for Paul using the ear of the g concept. I fixed
    the angle of the cap W as per Tiff and made the ligs discretionary, I even added
    an alternate e with a softened counter although I still prefer the notched version.
    \ At text size you can't even tell. I added a Euro and some other stuff too.\r\n\r\nThanks
    to all for your help.  I'll come back and explain further what I did and didn't
    do and why after the weekend.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-04 04:02:19'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'oooh! i really like the new w! now if you can only make the v a bit narrower
    and give it some of the sweetness of the new w. i like your alt Q you did for
    me, but i was thinking of the tail hanging down in the same manner that the ear
    of the g flips up. >^p but you can''t please everyone. '
  created: '2006-07-04 05:49:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Paul! I'll tweek the v as well.  I originally tried the Q that way
    but it looked too symetrical for me so I went with the sideways version.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-04 13:32:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here is version 10 with the v more like the new w as suggested by Paul.  He
    was obviously right, this works much better. I added the cap umlaut O and U and
    did some other tinkering. Now I have to see if I can put something together in
    time for tomorrow's deadline as per Zara's post to us.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-04 15:33:25'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: This really is looking good, Chris. I'm excited to see it up next to all of
    the others. :^)
  created: '2006-07-04 15:45:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"up next to all of the others.\"\r\n\r\nThanks Tiff!\r\n\r\nbut what others
    do you mean?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-04 15:49:37'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Oh. :^o I thought you were submitting this for the TypeGallery. '
  created: '2006-07-04 15:52:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I agree, v and w much improved. But now the top of the y looks too open by
    comparison :)   \r\n\r\nDoes the right diagonal of the y need to be more vertical?
    Or maybe the top have a bit of a bend like the middle or right diagonal of the
    w?\r\n\r\nTo me the new Q looks falling backward because of having both the diagonal
    stress and the off-center tail. "
  created: '2006-07-04 16:00:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Tiff,\r\nYes, I am submitting it to the TypeGallery. I didn't know that was
    what you meant. I must be dense :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-04 16:04:04'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Bill has a point about the Q. :^/ Being a cap letter it will always be at
    the beginning of a word when used and might have the appearance of falling backward.
    I didn't notice that change. I'm going to have to back up and look at an older
    Q.
  created: '2006-07-04 16:04:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "William,\r\nI agree about the y, it should be more like the v--\"miles to
    go before I sleep\" and tomorrow is the deadline :-(\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-04 16:06:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I just did one more PDF version (#11) with a new y and a new alt y. please
    let me know which you prefer?\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-04 17:45:25'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i like both the new y's but i prefer the first.
  created: '2006-07-04 18:42:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Paul.  What about the Q? Does it bother you like it does William?\r\n\r\nAt
    any rate, I am now posting one more version with yet another y and another Q for
    your vote.\r\n\r\nSee PDF 12 above.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-04 19:34:14'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: oooh! i like the new Q! i hope you're keeping the long tailed Q as an alternate.
    the y is nice too, but i prefer the chunkier tail on the y. i think you've got
    a real nice cohesiveness goin on now that you smoothed out your rough spots. way
    to go!
  created: '2006-07-04 19:40:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I prefer the first y, which works better as far as color of the face. \r\n\r\nAs
    I said earlier,to my eyes the curved right diagonals are a bit out of character
    with the rest of the face. I am just guessing that it would be better to my eyes
    if they were all straighter, but still with the 'left hook' you've put in. As
    you prefer the curves, though, having them in the right y diagonal as well is
    better. \r\n\r\nThe new Q doesn't work for me either; the descender is too heavy
    or something. As cute as it is on the g, the g ear shape doesn't seem to work
    on a descender; I suspect you need another shape.  "
  created: '2006-07-04 19:50:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thank you both for your quick response! I think you are right, I am going
    with the first chunkier y.  The Q will have to simmer in my subconcious for a
    while.  I will just have to take a stab with what I have for tomorrow's deadline
    and revisit the whole face in a week or so.\r\nPaul, yes, I am leaving the alternate
    curly Q and the alternate y for that matter. If in doubt, alternate it about :-)
    \r\nWhere are you on your <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/21100\">Junius</a>
    Paul? \r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-04 20:05:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My daughter just gave me too huge German words I have to share (along with
    another Q):\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Oy-Gevalt_5958.png]"
  created: '2006-07-04 20:53:04'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Where are you on your Junius Paul?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm doing a lot of work
    to the lower case, so it may be a while b4 you see another iteration. i think
    it had several design issues and a lot of color issues, so i'm trying to iron
    all that out. but i'll leave that for my own thread... :^P"
  created: '2006-07-05 04:31:35'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Dez, this is really good. I agree that I hope you keep the others as alts.
    \r\n\r\nI recently had to set a small paragraph in German for a multi-lingual
    specimen. Needless to say, it was the German that had me pulling my hair out!
    :^P"
  created: '2006-07-05 17:34:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Tiff,\r\nPulling my hair out is noionger an option for me :-)\r\nThat
    ship has already sailed.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-05 19:08:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have just posted another update.  I have added more diacritics but obviously
    not all yet (you will see some undefined characters in the text)\r\nMostly, I
    did a set of small caps (I see I need some L kerns to Y and V with them).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-11 03:00:47'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'looks pretty good, but the spacing on the smallcaps seems a bit wonky look
    at "FTE" "PED" "UNT" "UIET" it all just feels a bit outta whack. oh, and can i
    get more g-ligs: gv, gw, gy, ggy? :^P'
  created: '2006-07-11 03:24:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Paul. There are even more weird spaces that I found as well. I'll
    give them a scrubbing.\r\nThere already is a ggy if you look at the huge word
    froggy on the top of page one. But I will add the others for you too :-) --I would
    also add \"gx\" but Apple quit making that :-P\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-11 12:56:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "OK Paul, above is the latest PDF with your new g ligs included and some work
    on spacing in the small caps as you suggested. I also added a bunch of diacritics
    so there are no undefined characters left in the text.\r\nNow all you need do
    is give me a list of words that use gw and gv :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-12 03:31:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I just posted round 15 with  more complete character set including math symbols
    and other language specific glyphs.\r\nThere is a lengthy series of quitations
    in 9pt at the end.  I am hoping some og Paul's requested ligs randomly appear
    there.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-14 04:02:13'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: chris, are you drunk? were you working on your greek again? >^p
  created: '2006-07-14 04:29:04'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "the rings on your ringed U and u are getting cropped, most likely due to
    vertical metrics not being set correctly. also, why is the ring over these characters
    different than that over the aring? Can we see an entire charset all together?\r\nalso,
    i'm thinking that maybe some of the wonky spacing on the smallcaps is due to the
    nature of the semi-serif??? If so you may need to do quite a bit of kerning to
    iron these problems out. Can we see some all-caps settings to see if there is
    the same problem with the capitals?"
  created: '2006-07-14 04:38:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Paul,\r\nWhere are you seeing the cropped rings? There is only one ring glyph
    being used in this font. I don't see any ring issues so far.\r\nI will post a
    character set tonight when I get home and some all caps.  It strikes me that the
    semi-serif is a factor, particularly when you have a thin vertical with no serif
    (like the U) next to a bolder vertical with a serif (like an H).  The overall
    color mass with the thin stroke makes you want to tightenit but the lack of serif
    makes you want to loosen it.  Kern Baby, Kern? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-14 13:02:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Paul,\r\nAre you perhaps looking at my U breve and thinking it is a ring
    chopped in half?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-14 16:28:14'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: aha! that's it... it WAS late.
  created: '2006-07-14 16:46:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have just redone my breve.  See which one is best:\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-14 17:01:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It might help if I posted the image, wouldn't it:\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/newbreve_3709.png]"
  created: '2006-07-14 17:13:07'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Is the acute a little too round?
  created: '2006-07-14 17:17:13'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Grave too. Maybe.\r\n\r\nBy \"round\" I simply mean the corner that has the
    bull-nose on it. So I guess I should've said the top rounded corner on both are
    too soft. Are they?"
  created: '2006-07-14 17:18:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Tiff,\r\nI did round them to try and match style.  Maybe too much?\r\n\r\nAlso,\r\n\r\nI
    just posted a new PDF with the character set Paul requested and added some all-caps
    strings at bottom to check cap spacing.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-14 17:46:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I just posted round 17 above with larger character set and adjustments to
    the Grave, etc.,  as per Tiff. There are more complete text strings comparing
    caps and small caps at the end.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-14 22:52:27'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I think they appear rounder/softer because the round/soft is on the top of
    the mark. The other diacritical marks don't seem as soft to me.
  created: '2006-07-14 22:53:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Tiff,\r\nI futzed with the grave above.  I've also just added a new file
    with lining figures and fractions with superior and inferior number sets as well.\r\n\r\nPaul,
    any preference on my revised Breve yet?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-16 00:57:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, I think figured out why the r looked off to me, or falling back, whereas
    the i does not. It is because your semi-serifs on the lc otherwise follow the
    rules of an italic. \r\n\r\nIn an italic the bottom of the r would normally not
    have a serif. This is probably a legacy of the fact that when an italic is written
    with a pen, the pen was reversed to rise for the arm, whereas with the i the pen
    was lifted as it moved right to make the next letter. \r\n\r\nWhile it has a chirographic
    origin, there is also a visual logic to it. The other stems with a branch following--hmn--do
    not have serifs on the foot. So the r foot should not have a semi-serif by this
    logic. \r\n\r\nNow you could also argue that with the r having its arm hanging
    out to the right, adding a right serif helps color. Probably true. But I think
    to violate visual expectations successfully, you you do you need to carry it throughout
    the type face. Here, the hmn follow the traditional pattern, so the r stands out--or
    falls over, as some of us think!\r\n\r\nI like the current y better than the vw.
    I am wondering whether if the left arms of the vw were at a greater angle from
    the vertical, like the y, they would work with more perfect harmony, while keeping
    the liveliness of your design? "
  created: '2006-07-16 15:04:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"... you could also argue that with the r having its arm hanging out to
    the right, adding a right serif helps color\"\r\n\r\nThat was exactly my reasoning.
    The h n m do not have a large void at their right extremity so the pattern is
    different anyway. The h n m also have a serif at their right full-height verticals.
    \ Since the r has only one full-height vertical,  it gets the serif.  I guess
    my system logic goes by different rules than yours with both being valid.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-16 15:31:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">exactly my reasoning\r\n\r\nI wonder, if your 'visual logic' is even color
    on the r with the bottom serif, if it would be better longer than others, as it
    often is in a full serif face? That might eliminate the 'falling over' issue also. "
  created: '2006-07-16 16:05:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Good point Bill, I'll give that a try.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-16 16:17:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Above is posted version 19 pdf with counters on lining figures stressed like
    other glyphs.\r\nI also extended the r base serif as per William and tinkered
    more withspacing.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-17 03:36:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I just posted PDF 20 with some tasty changes I cooked up recently.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-19 03:24:55'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: looks good, chris. i think the new breve looks better. there is still some
    wonky spacing in the caps/small caps, but perhaps the only way to fix this is
    with kerning? hope you're enjoying your froggy fritters!
  created: '2006-07-19 04:06:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, looking again at Froggy, I was wondering whether you have experimented
    with softening some of the corners on the caps. \r\n\r\nThis might bring the caps
    more in line with the delightful look of the lower case. For example you might
    round all corners opposite serifs, as in the lower case. Or you might just round
    diagonal corners, such as where the diagonals in AMNXYZ have joins with thins
    or serifs. The rounding might be less, but it would still soften it some, like
    the lower case..."
  created: '2006-07-19 18:34:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I just posted some Icelandic text in a new PDF with a revised eth courtesy
    of a proper look by Oscar Bjarna.\r\n\r\nPaul, any specific kern pairs you see
    needing help?\r\n\r\nWilliam, I tried your softening and it just looks to fuzzy
    in the caps.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-20 03:08:35'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: So did you intend it to be available in optical sizes, or just display? If
    it's for display, the face looks good as it is -- that 'g' is okay too :)
  created: '2006-07-20 03:45:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Bram,\r\nThis, so far, is just the bold weight. When I start the normal
    weight, I will be more focused on text readability.  It is probably odd to see
    a type family begun with the bold weight first but, then again, I can be an odd
    fellow myself :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-20 13:04:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hi Chris, \r\n\r\nLooking again at Froggy in your new 'scary' posters, it
    struck me that the only sw-ne diagonals in your lower case that are straight are
    the z and the second stroke in the w. I've always had problems with the w, which
    you've improved. Maybe tinkering with the second stoke would improve it still
    further in making it work more smoothly with the rest of the face. On the diagonal
    z, you have a good model in the sw-ne stroke of the x. I don't know if that would
    look too soft, but it might be worth a try if you haven't already. Anyway, Froggy
    will be a hit!   "
  created: '2006-11-01 15:13:23'
date: '2006-06-28 04:00:10'
files:
- filename: Froggy_Plunk.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Froggy_Plunk.pdf
- filename: 2Froggy_Plunk.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/2Froggy_Plunk.pdf
- filename: Froggy_Plunk3.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Froggy_Plunk3.pdf
- filename: Froggy_Plunk4.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Froggy_Plunk4.pdf
- filename: Froggy_Plunk5.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Froggy_Plunk5.pdf
- filename: Froggy_Plunk6.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Froggy_Plunk6.pdf
- filename: Froggy_Plunk7.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Froggy_Plunk7.pdf
- filename: Froggy_Plunk8.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Froggy_Plunk8.pdf
- filename: Froggy_Plunk9.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Froggy_Plunk9.pdf
- filename: Froggy_Plunk10.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Froggy_Plunk10.pdf
- filename: Froggy_Plunk11.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Froggy_Plunk11.pdf
- filename: Froggy_Plunk12.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Froggy_Plunk12.pdf
- filename: Froggy_SC_diacritics.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Froggy_SC_diacritics.pdf
- filename: 14-Froggy_SC_diacritics.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/14-Froggy_SC_diacritics.pdf
- filename: 15_Froggy_more_diacritics.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/15_Froggy_more_diacritics.pdf
- filename: character_set2.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/character_set2.pdf
- filename: Froggy_character_set17.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Froggy_character_set17.pdf
- filename: FroggycharacterFigures18.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/FroggycharacterFigures18.pdf
- filename: Froggy-character19.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Froggy-character19.pdf
- filename: frog_legs20.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/frog_legs20.pdf
- filename: Icelandic_froggy.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Icelandic_froggy.pdf
node_type: forum
title: Froggy Semi-serif leaps into the critique area

---
