---
author:
  name: andi emery
  picture: 110007
body: "We've seen them in our travels, down the road from where we live and passed
  them on our way into work. They are signs and advertisements riddled with typographic
  errors that just make us cringe. They give meaning to the words, \"Hire a Professional!\"
  and instill in us the belief that wherever there is type, we are needed!\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: TDF
    picture: 111673
  body: "Theres a restaurant in Toronto called \"Quotes\" with inch marks in the logo.\r\n\r\nDrives
    me nuts!"
  created: '2006-06-28 17:16:14'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "The prime mark makes me crazy!\r\n\r\nESPECIALLY in an italic."
  created: '2006-06-28 17:17:40'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "Google and ye shall find, Luke! Yikes!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Quotes_6672.jpg]"
  created: '2006-06-28 17:20:29'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: Tell me about it, Patty. And like their sign says, they are all over London!
    Eeek!
  created: '2006-06-28 17:22:57'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: Thanks for tracking that down, Andi. I was about to ask where it was. How
    could they. There is one good point ... it makes the mistake in not using S for
    St less noticeable. I read it as southwest, as they do in Calgary and was thinking
    ... King Street does not go southwest.
  created: '2006-06-28 18:56:57'
- author:
    name: catastrophe
    picture: 111719
  body: 'It just disgusts me every time I pass by a business or ad with some typical
    typeface that has nothing to do with what it should convey. Around where I live
    Papyrus seems to be the default for hair/beauty businesses, and Copperplate is
    now used on a bunch of signage! My all time make me throw up font is Comic sans.
    A local burger place uses that to advertise their "Western Bacon Cheeseburger"..since
    when did that convey burgers?! Something needs to be done, before my eyes burn
    off! '
  created: '2006-06-28 19:39:58'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Hmmm. Catastrophe did not read the rules on size of ID picture.\r\n\r\nComic
    sans is often used as a \"different\" font by people who see all serif and all
    sans as identical. I once worked with a teacher in a college program that printed
    all her tests and her assignment sheets in comic sans.\r\n\r\nThe kicker: it was
    an Internet Graphic Design course (she was the programming teacher, I was the
    design teacher). "
  created: '2006-06-28 20:27:11'
- author:
    name: catastrophe
    picture: 111719
  body: "Haha sorry, I just signed up for this, so i'm getting used to it. I'll have
    to adjust that..thanks Don! \r\n\r\nIt's amazing to see how many people abuse
    comic sans. I've just seen it used one too many times in the wrong places. \r\n\r\nEver
    been to bancomicsans.com? "
  created: '2006-06-28 23:51:05'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "I once saw a photo of a video store called \"FLICKS\" but the L and I were
    so close together it ended up spelling somthing quite different. That may have
    been intentional.\r\n; )"
  created: '2006-06-29 00:19:53'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'That is being generous Dennis. '
  created: '2006-06-29 00:29:07'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Was it in West Hollywood? :)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-06-29 00:34:43'
- author:
    name: hn2o
    picture: 109689
  body: "This is a nice one. I guess someone confused the ampersand with the german
    double s\u2026\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CIMG0683_5277.jpg]"
  created: '2006-06-29 00:45:37'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "You gotta also love B\u2022A\u2022R\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-06-29 00:48:35'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "Oh noooo, is that even possible?! Here's another priceless sign but it has
    more to do with proximity than anything else. At first glance, how do you read
    it?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/badsign_3526.jpg]"
  created: '2006-06-29 02:03:39'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I think the person who used the German double s must have been dyslexic. If
    you look at it backwards, it does resemble an "Et" style ampersand.
  created: '2006-06-29 02:14:05'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I hate it when the car products are off, and I'm a little low on \"care now\"
    and I've been looking for some at a good price.\r\n\r\nThanks."
  created: '2006-06-29 02:40:15'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.graphicdesignforum.com/forum/showthread.php?t=13362\"
    target=\"_blank\">Here it is, I just googled it.</a>\r\n\r\nCan it get any worse
    than that?\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-29 02:51:26'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: I was right on the bumper an Audi Allroad the other day for several miles
    in slow traffic. I couldn't figure out the model name for at least three miles.
    Thought "oiirood" was a very strange motor moniker.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo_allroad_3657.gif]
  created: '2006-06-29 17:37:02'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "quote - Can it get any worse than that?\r\n\r\nYes, I believe it can\u2026
    :)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-06-29 17:54:35'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'I saw a sign that said said: RUGS AND BROADLOOMS. The neon was bad and at
    night it said RUGS AND BAD LOOMS'
  created: '2006-06-29 20:57:10'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "A thread of dreadful combination stores could be fun. There was a local place
    that always made me roll that sold:\r\n\r\nPropane Gas & Porcelain Dolls\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-29 21:01:34'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "There's a great store in downtown LA that has two display windows. One side
    is bridal gowns and the other side is cheap childrens toys. Makes perfect sense,
    but the visual is really incoherent\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-06-29 21:29:06'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: The ol' "liquor, guns and ammo" store signs are my personal favourites. I
    can't even imagine selling all 3 in one place. I mean, recipe for disaster?
  created: '2006-06-29 21:45:31'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: There used to be a place in our community called Carpet & Burgers - known
    to the locals as Carpet Burgers. Sadly, I have no photo. It was gone before we
    moved here.
  created: '2006-06-29 22:19:08'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: ew.
  created: '2006-06-29 22:33:28'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>There used to be a place in our community called Carpet & Burgers -
    known to the locals as Carpet Burgers. Sadly, I have no photo. It was gone before
    we moved here.</cite>\r\n\r\nLovely\r\n\r\nI'll have a Berber with cheese."
  created: '2006-06-29 22:57:57'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "At a mall near my home, there used to be a big sign for a \"Chock full o'Nuts\"
    store. The \"h\" in the neon sign was out for months.\r\n\r\nMade for a NSFW sign
    at night... :-)\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\nhttp://homepage.mac.com/mwebert\r\nmwebert@mac.com\r\n--------------"
  created: '2006-06-29 23:11:07'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>There was a local place that always made me roll that sold:\r\nPropane
    Gas & Porcelain Dolls</em>\r\n\r\nI always thought a Lingerie & Bait store would
    make a fun match. I have seen some unlikely combinations with bait near the beach,
    which is what made me think of that one as a consummate pairing."
  created: '2006-06-29 23:56:40'
- author:
    name: Bobby Henderson
  body: "Being a full time sign designer, I share the disgust in typographical errors
    and other acts which I call \"font murder\" displayed on signs.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    we're getting our money's worth when it comes to our commercial outdoor landscape.
    The sign industry has little if any glamour to attract lots of talented people.
    Good paying sign design jobs are rare. If we really care about the visually electric
    nature of our commercial streets we should be willing to invest more in them.\r\n\r\nThere
    is a small minority of talented artists doing very good quality work in the sign
    industry. They know \"storefront personality\" matters. They know the responsibility
    they have in their work, knowing if they sluff off uninspired dreck they'll be
    reminded of it everytime they drive past it, possibly for many years to come.
    At the same time they must fight from growing disillusioned by all the poor quality
    sign work they see others doing.\r\n\r\nToday, most sign designers have no formal
    training, no art degree and are often terribly lacking in talent. But there are
    legions of such people who are willing to work for little pay. To most of them,
    it's just a job until they get something better -probably something not even art
    related. Since most business people still believe computers and software are creating
    the artwork they feel there is no need to pay extra for someone armed with an
    art degree and competent portfolio of work."
  created: '2006-06-30 02:12:20'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Man, I love folk signage.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-06-30 02:23:19'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "You shore got a purty sign.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fixturs_3782.jpg]"
  created: '2006-06-30 03:00:31'
- author:
    name: iBran
  body: "This reminds me of the point-of-interest signs I saw while driving through
    Nebraska over the weekend.  The design isn't exactly flat-out horrible--I think
    they're rather quaint--but lets just say it hasn't aged well over the years (not
    to mention the physical condition of the signs!)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nebraska1_6178.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nebraska2_6243.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nebraska3_4209.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nebraska4_4835.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nebraska5_5135.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nebraska6_4095.jpg]"
  created: '2006-06-30 05:03:03'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "You know James, that's just scary (I can hear the deliverance dueling banjo
    music being played in the background).\r\n\r\nBrian, those are classic signs!
    And I agree, there *is* something quaint about them - and the different typestyles
    that are in use. Definitely a reflection of the time that they were made in."
  created: '2006-06-30 13:20:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "James' \"fixturs for sale\" sign is quite honest and unpretentious.  It does
    not bother me one bit. It is just some poor uneducated guy selling his stuff as
    best he can. The bad stuff is that done by people getting paid for signage and
    doing a poor job of it.  Bobby is right in his post above and he echos the problems
    faced in all kinds of design work--where the perception is the computer just does
    it by itself.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-06-30 13:58:15'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Wherever you have text signs, you get concerns over crap spelling and proofreading
    as well as crap design and punctuation. There's a business in our town centre
    with \"LETTINGS AND MANAGMENT\" etched in 4-inch caps on the front window. I keep
    wanting to go and draw an insertion mark and an \"E\" with a felt-tip but never
    have the guts. Etched lettering can't be cheap, surely somebody okayed the job
    <em>before</em> it was done?\r\n\r\n___________________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2006-06-30 16:03:33'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>James\u2019 \u201Cfixturs for sale\u201D sign is quite honest and unpretentious.
    It does not bother me one bit. It is just some poor uneducated guy selling his
    stuff as best he can. </cite>\r\n\r\nThat sign is at the end of my street. I've
    been wanting to snap a photo for a month now. I'm with you\u2014I really love
    things like this, and marvel at the character of it. The painter didn't need to
    use three colors of paint. You can tell is was a very honest and joyful expression. "
  created: '2006-06-30 16:25:41'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: For some reason in Minneapolis you can find several tanning/video stores.
    I never understood that combination.
  created: '2006-06-30 16:39:12'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Here's something \"on topic\", Enjoy!:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aOYvP136LlI&mode=related&search=signs%20signs"
  created: '2006-06-30 19:13:08'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: Chinese Hamburger Donut
  created: '2006-06-30 20:23:25'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Ok, I saw this Wed. and went back to get a photo for this thread. Do you
    think it conveys the image that they probably wanted?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/alldefonts_6298.jpg]\r\n\r\n(Is
    it Pro Spa, or Pro Vivid Spa?)"
  created: '2006-07-01 01:23:24'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "I wanted to let that one sink in as a prelude to this:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/alldefonts2_4323.jpg]\r\nIs
    it nine fonts, or only eight? "
  children:
  - author:
      name: liquisoft
      picture: 111679
    body: "8. I think Helvetica is used twice there.\r\n\r\n+\r\nRyan Ford"
    created: '2006-07-01 23:09:18'
  created: '2006-07-01 01:25:53'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "The signmaker's masterpeas:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/alldefonts1_6135.jpg]\r\nSeven
    fonts on one sign.\r\n\r\nAs I was walking back to my car, an oriental man comes
    out saying, \"Why you take-ah dah photo?\" I replied, \"As an example of bad sign-making.
    An internet group is discussing bad signs, and I wanted yours to show them.\"-
    He looked back at it with a consternated look, as I decided that 95 degrees was
    just to hot to stand in a parking lot trying to make someone who doesn't speak
    English very well to  understand that using all the fonts in the computer can
    not be equated with any kind of classiness."
  created: '2006-07-01 01:33:21'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Dennis, I'll be your P.C. guide so you don't get in trouble anymore.  It's
    \"Asian\", not oriental, and \"take-ah dah\", while funny, could cause a visit
    from our monitor.\r\n\r\nBut GOD DANG IT!!! what a sign!!! That Asian's got style!
    He really got his money's worth, sort of.\r\n\r\nNow, how about a corporate sign,
    where it's a really high class joint, and they still don't get it.  That would
    be fun to see.  The graphics on the murals at a Panera sandwich place near my
    house drive me nuts.  They're about 10 feet tall, all bitmapped, multi layered
    goo that tries to look sophisticated.  I like the muffins though.  er "
  created: '2006-07-01 02:47:45'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>and \u201Ctake-ah dah\u201D, while funny, could cause a visit from our
    monitor.</em>\r\n\r\nI was phonetically translating as best I could. (P.C. isn't
    spoken on the planet I come from).\r\n; )"
  created: '2006-07-01 03:39:49'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Btw, I can just imagine a designer rear-ending someone at that intersection,
    and having to explain to the police that he went into typophilic shock when he
    saw it.
  created: '2006-07-01 03:44:30'
- author:
    name: amyp
    picture: 109556
  body: Excellent <a href="http://www.designobserver.com/archives/009892.html">post</a>
    from Jessica Helfand on Design Observer last year...I made my students read it
    and made for a great discussion about what makes for "effective" typographic strategies
    ( or lack there of).
  created: '2006-07-01 04:41:19'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/168293376_aee337b3ed_4197.JPG]\r\n\r\nit's
    Dutch, eh....Den Haag"
  created: '2006-07-01 07:50:41'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: Chill out, ER.
  created: '2006-07-01 09:06:14'
- author:
    name: Bobby Henderson
  body: "The Pro Spa banners and window graphics are a riot! That just about qualifies
    as ransom note signage.\r\n\r\nOne cannot even attempt to make sense of the combinations
    in fonts chosen. It's like someone pouring a big glob of mustard on top of chocolate
    ice cream. The \"PRO\" letters set in script and all caps is the mark of a true
    amateur, one without talent, one who doesn't care about how things look or all
    of the above. However, I can say one nice thing about those samples. They don't
    appear to have Arial in them."
  created: '2006-07-01 16:30:18'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "The phrase \"grand cru\" carries a deep resonance in French wine culture.
    Literally, it means \"great vineyard.\"  It has deeper resonance when the first
    quote is backwards and at the bottom.\r\n\r\nThanks, that's just what I wanted
    to see!  Perfect.     ER"
  created: '2006-07-01 16:54:46'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>The \u201CPRO\u201D letters set in script and all caps is the mark of
    a true amateur</em>\r\n\r\nThat is an insult to true amateurs! I am an amateur,
    and I couldn't dream of concocting something like that. I believe it is more a
    case of being clueless. Like the people in the first weeks of American Idol trials
    who can't carry a tune, but get pissed at the judges for not recognizing real
    talent when they see it."
  created: '2006-07-01 17:09:38'
- author:
    name: dishdesigner
    picture: 111471
  body: "Regarding crazy combination shops:\r\n\r\nI took a vacation in rural Hocking
    Hills, Ohio about two years ago and drove through a tiny town on the way with
    a \"Beauty Salon and Chainsaw Repair\" and almost soiled myself with glee!\r\n\r\nI
    had to stop at the grocery next door and ask what was up, and actually, the explanation
    is rather interesting. It seems that the common denominator is BLADE SHARPENING!\r\n\r\nThere
    are actually people who drive around the countryside to small rural towns every
    few months and sharpen all kinds of blades for people: restaurant knives, barber's
    shears, chainsaws, farmer's equipment, etc.....Who knew?!\r\n\r\nSo, there could
    be method behind the madness of some of these places.....\r\n\r\nCheers and Happy
    4th"
  created: '2006-07-01 17:48:26'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: '@ER.. the quotes in Grand Cru are correct for Dutch but there is a real mistake
    in the letters.'
  created: '2006-07-02 06:18:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Vince, you mean the \"A\" being flipped horizontally.\r\nBut to me it's only
    a \"real mistake\" to ductus junkies.\r\nUsing Helvetica alongside is much worse,
    especially\r\nfor a [wannabe] fancy place.\r\n\r\n> Seven fonts on one sign.\r\n\r\nPeanuts.
    I \"own\" the undispooted champeen:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/typorgy.jpg\r\n\r\nAnd
    I didn't even have to travel.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-05 18:54:55'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>I \u201Cown\u201D the undispooted champeen:</em>\r\nComplete with typo;
    I like the &WINE"
  created: '2006-07-05 19:44:08'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "It's very near Clancy's Crab Broiler, a fish house I can appreciate\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-07-06 00:15:06'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "I just returned home from a trip to Quebec City and picked up these 2 gems
    along the way to add to my collection. Not nearly as impressive as Hrant's ad,
    but I'm still on the look out for my own \u201Cchampeen\u201D.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pistcyclable_small_5540.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tickmarks_5199.jpg]"
  created: '2006-07-19 19:18:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I thought it meant \"great vintage\" but you could be right.\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-19 19:27:34'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: 'Great vintage? Perhaps... but from what eras?? : )'
  created: '2006-07-19 19:37:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Looks like you were more correct... literal translation is \"great growth\"
    - but \"great vineyard\" is the wine world's meaning. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.epicurious.com/drinking/wine_dictionary/entry?id=6599\r\n\r\nhttp://info.detnews.com/wine/columns/johnson/details.cfm?id=22\r\n
    \r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grand_cru\r\n\r\nAlthough my experience with
    the term relates exclusively to this product... http://www.beermania.be/sales/hoegaard_g_cru.htm
    :-)\r\n\r\nsorry for the diversion\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-19 20:47:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Oh, Si--we all know what genr\xE9 of product you most desire :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-19 21:52:45'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Here's one I saw while driving last week. If the kerning doesn't grab your
    attention, maybe the odd font change will.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aargh_3754.jpg]"
  created: '2007-09-29 23:00:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"C\" no evil ;-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-30 00:21:50'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: I think that would be the C-change everyone is talking about.
  created: '2007-09-30 00:42:07'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fidelus_007_4018.jpg]\r\n\r\nthe 7 is
    and upside down L"
  created: '2007-09-30 02:08:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Looks to me like they originally planned for it to say 1941 but thenthe war
    intervened and they let things go a few years. When they were ready to finish
    the 1 was \"cast in stone\" so they just faked the 7 out of it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-30 05:12:02'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "it's possible. The spacing seems to support that idea, but then, the spacing
    is uniformly quirky, so that can also mean nothing in particular. They are cast
    concrete, so chiseling a 1 into a 7 seems unlikely (cast on site, I understand).
    The bridges were built and dedicated in '47, when that portion of the 401 was
    opened. There four bridges on Hwy 401 which had those exact same plaques, and
    they were built in '47. \r\n\r\nedit: sorry to be like a dog with a bone over
    this, ( :o) )...\r\n but here is the whole thing . [img:sites/default/files/old-images/l7-1_4345.jpg]\r\n\r\nand...
    [img:sites/default/files/old-images/l-7_yup_5531.jpg]"
  created: '2007-09-30 18:59:34'
- body: "ER - don't chill out. I have a few Asian friends who are deeply offended
    when people call them Oriental.  For those of you who don't know why, it's because
    the word Oriental is meant to modify a noun (like oriental rug or vase.)  To them,
    it's like being referred to as not really human.  Another friend I have says it's
    because \"oriental\" is a word that Europeans created during a period of European
    exploitation of Asia -- it defines Asia through the eyes of a culture that disrespected
    them.  Kinda the same reason Native Americans hate being called Indians ... (well,
    up here they do.) \r\n\r\nI'm just saying ... it's not overly PC to respect people.\r\n\r\nAnd
    hey, as I'm typing this, I noticed there's a whole second page to this thread
    that I haven't read. \r\nPosting anyway...\r\nAK"
  created: '2007-10-01 03:49:15'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Not a bad sign, but kinda fun...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fun_5292.jpg]"
  created: '2007-10-01 06:52:53'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "oriental, occidental.\r\n\r\nSo, now we have occidental Asians and and oriental
    Caucasians. Mostly we're just people.  \r\nR"
  created: '2007-10-01 21:46:57'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>\u201Coriental\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nI was trained in an era that precedes
    \"political correctness\". Old habits die hard sometimes. To me there is no negative
    connotation, so it is hard to anticipate offense. \r\n\r\nIn any case, if I hear
    something enough times, there is a chance I will remember. Oriental = bad. Asian
    = Good, if I understand correctly.\r\n\r\nWe now return you to your regularly
    scheduled programming."
  created: '2007-10-02 01:27:24'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: ">><em>Not a bad sign, but kinda fun...</em>\r\n!NUF said!"
  created: '2007-10-02 01:36:44'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Is \"Asian\" not also an adjective?\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2007-10-02 16:55:47'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>!NUF said!</cite>\r\n\r\nIt took me a while, but I just got it. Good
    one!\r\n; )"
  created: '2007-10-02 17:45:00'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "why won't smartypants do a backwards F?\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2007-10-03 05:29:46'
- author:
    name: core
    picture: 110478
  body: "Howdy y'all, did you see this font?\r\nI saw the sign and took the photo
    in Minneapolis.\r\nDavid Buck aka Sparky made it into a font.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sparkytype.com/fonts.php?font=Lowery-Auto"
  created: '2007-10-03 15:15:30'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I found this on my computer. I don't recall where it came from. Seems to
    fit here though.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/moz-screenshot_4945.JPG]\r\n\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2007-10-13 06:10:02'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Well on those grounds... it's not necessarily a typographical professional
    needed here - just someone with a grasp of their own language:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DSCI0016_5893.jpg]\r\n\r\n_____________________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2007-10-15 16:27:45'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "The \"Wellness Center\" photo I posted some time ago has been amended. Maybe
    they got wind of us making fun of them:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/P1010699_5862.jpg]"
  created: '2007-10-20 03:25:46'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "OK - honestly...\r\n\r\nWith these kinds of threads, I keep hoping none of
    my past blunders will surface :o\\\r\n\r\n<em>Not that there are any :o)  </em>
    (All I'll admit to is that our past typeface was Swiss 721 BT.)\r\n\r\nHere's
    one that happened when an other department decided to circumvent the 'sign department':
    They went to El-Cheapo sign shop for a bunch of signs with place names. Never
    mind that the signs looked like a dog's breakfast, the sign shop put all the names
    through a spell checker. \r\n\r\nThey were up for a few weeks when it surfaced
    that someone was blogging about them. \r\n\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2007-10-20 23:15:57'
- author:
    name: TDF
    picture: 111673
  body: 'Finally - someone''s taking action: www.thedesignfirm.ca/blog'
  created: '2007-10-24 23:26:43'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: Well these places all look like ,,A great place to eat<strong>' '</strong>.
    . .
  created: '2007-10-24 23:56:09'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Sorry to resurrect an old thread, but I have something to add\r\n\r\nThis
    beauty has delighted me for years:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/korjaamo_5234.gif]\r\n\r\nAnd
    this sign is in the same crossing:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rengashalli_5702.gif]\r\n\r\nFixing
    cars, second hand cars and tyre services on offer."
  created: '2008-04-23 09:39:08'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "The second one isn\u2019t so bad, but the first one, while very quaint, is
    practically illegible. I can just about make out that the phone number is 0400-409931,
    but what the number underneath it ends in, I have no idea.\r\n\r\nGood to know
    you can get \u201Cvaihto autoja halval\r\nla\u201D, though. Better than \u201Cvaihto
    autoja Valhalla\u201D, I assume.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>\xAB@ER.. the quotes
    in Grand Cru are correct for Dutch but there is a real mistake in the letters.\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    realise I\u2019m asking a question about something someone posted nearly two years
    ago, but bear with me here. Is it really correct for Dutch to use \u201Ethese
    quotes\u201D? Shouldn\u2019t it be \u201Elike this\u201C instead, as in German
    and the Scandinavian languages?"
  created: '2008-04-23 11:02:18'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: The shop the top sign advertises might as well be in Valhalla, it's so tempting
    when you see it.
  created: '2008-04-23 11:13:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I thought such signs were limited to rural America. Nice to see that Finnland
    has its share as well.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-23 14:22:07'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: I think such signs are limited to rural everywhere, and even in cities, a
    few will inevitably crop up here and there.
  created: '2008-04-23 14:39:10'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: Those Finnish signs are less than 10 km from the heart of the capital.
  created: '2008-04-23 14:41:44'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "Yes, so, basically in rural Finland. :-\xFE"
  created: '2008-04-23 16:48:35'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: "Great thread!  If there's not already one for positive examples of local
    signs, I think I need to start one...  For now, I just want to re-orient the conversation
    towards Asian signage in my beloved Oakland:\r\n\r\n\r\nAn Occident? (<a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/eeblet/2283210726/\">on
    flickr</a>)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2283210726_74d4b7e5aa_5459.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nA
    genuinely beautiful set of signs, unfortunately in disrepair: (<a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/eeblet/2246056925/\">on
    flickr</a>)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2246056925_8345f19eb7_4674.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<em
    style=\"margin-top: 1em\">ugh, formatting not working!  CSS is not allowed, I
    assume?</em>\r\n\r\n---\r\neeblet.com"
  created: '2008-04-26 01:16:00'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: "This is not a typographic sign, but it is definitely in need of help! It
    is in the parking lot of the apartment next to mine in Winnipeg:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Visitator_3776.jpg]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-27 19:29:18'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Ouch. Quite nice Ns though... ;-D\r\n\r\n______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2008-04-28 10:20:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "This one inspires confidence:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_0627_4785.jpg]\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2008-04-28 11:30:09'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Nick, that is a beauty! Slogan and all, oh my.\r\n\r\nReminds me of a childhood
    \"newspaper\" I used to make with my cousins in our summer place. There was always
    an ad for a fine red second hand car, with which we meant one ancient wreck that
    was kept inside an old shed. There was also a green Sunbeam, but that one still
    had tyres and potentially still moved."
  created: '2008-04-28 11:41:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Wherefore art thou, Romeo?\"\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-28 13:41:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Tobago actually. :^)\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2008-04-28 14:53:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Under yon window falls in Tobago :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-04-28 15:02:43'
- author:
    name: tina
    picture: 109693
  body: "extended meaning through keming\r\n<p></p>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ferntrans_6735.jpg]"
  created: '2008-04-29 22:18:14'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: On the positive side, it's the beautiful old display cut of Helvetica, the
    one you rarely see anymore.
  created: '2008-04-30 02:05:10'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: "Heh \"femtrans\" gives a lot of meaning to that graphic, which manages to
    be both yonic & phallic simultaneously.  Sorry to gutter-fy the thread - but I
    couldn't help myself.\r\n\r\nI do agree with Mark that the type looks beautiful,
    besides the kerning.\r\n\r\n---\r\neeblet.com"
  created: '2008-05-01 04:50:06'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "*bump\u2014again*\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\nAn overzealous attempt at \u2018Spanifying\u2019
    a sign:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hacienda_5315.jpg]\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\nSomeone
    who needs to learn the difference between a grave accent and an apostrophe, not
    to mention how <em>not</em> to warp text.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/jarlens_4245.jpg]"
  created: '2008-05-14 02:09:03'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/08_05_11 164_5120.jpg]\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-05-14 02:18:34'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Why not just create a group of flickr?
  created: '2008-05-14 02:52:14'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "You know how schools have a sign at the front giving the school's name, that
    of the head teacher, perhaps the trustees or whatever, and maybe some contact
    phone numbers? Watching the national news on TV last night, I saw a report that
    happened to come from outside a school where all the above was done in Comic Sans.
    That raised a laugh.\r\n_______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2008-05-14 09:25:27'
date: '2006-06-28 16:22:54'
title: Typographic Signs in Need of Professional Help.

---
