---
author:
  name: j_polo9
body: I would love to be able to hand letter good logos, or compete in this weeks
  battle, or even have good day to day handwriting :/ So what are some good practices
  I can do to learn how to hand letter beatutiful type?
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: '<a href="http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/redirect?tag=typographica-20%26link_code=xm2%26camp=2025%26creative=165953%26path=http://www.amazon.com/gp/redirect.html%253fASIN=1581804369%2526tag=typographica-20%2526lcode=xm2%2526cID=2025%2526ccmID=165953%2526location=/o/ASIN/1581804369%25253FSubscriptionId=02ZH6J1W0649DTNS6002"
    title="at Amazon">"Logo Font & Lettering Bible: A Comprehensive Guide to the Design,
    Construction and Usage of Alphabets and Symbols"</a>'
  created: '2006-07-03 05:44:05'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: Yea its a great read/ on my shelf/ one i need to re-read. But that one is
    more of a generic book and I don't remember too much on hand lettering in it.
    But ill check again.
  created: '2006-07-03 06:14:22'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: Maybe you should considering taking some calligraphy-lessons with a good teacher,
    it's a great way of getting to know the proportions of letter and practice the
    hand muscles :)
  created: '2006-07-03 08:13:39'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I remember using a smallish book by Edward Johnston about writing Italic
    (the preferred hand for typographers) when I was in Art School (published in the
    twenties?). And I kind of remember there being a more recent fascimile edition
    of that book, published by Dover Books (seventies?). \r\nI loved the handwriting
    of one my graphic design teachers and he pointed me to that one (me being to lazy
    to take the course he gave). Well, this being 30 years ago, and my memory fading,
    I may be completely off track here\u2026"
  created: '2006-07-03 08:36:28'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "@Goran: I've always thought about calligraphy but not sure where they offer
    classes around me. \r\n\r\n@bert: sounds very intriguing. So far i've found: \r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0887231535/ref=sr_11_1/103-9760515-1103031?ie=UTF8\">The
    House of David, His Inheritance: A Book of Sample Scripts 1914 A.D.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0800846427/qid=1151913808/sr=11-1/ref=sr_11_1/103-9760515-1103031?n=283155\">Lessons
    in Formal Writing</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0898154014/qid=1151913900/sr=11-1/ref=sr_11_1/103-9760515-1103031?n=283155\">Decoration
    and Its Uses: Transcribed by John Ch. Tarr from the Imprint, 1913 </a>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/9998084180/qid=1151914110/sr=1-4/ref=sr_1_4/103-9760515-1103031?s=books&v=glance&n=283155\">Writing
    and Illuminating and Lettering</a>\r\n\r\n\r\nI bought the last three! Total,
    including shipping: $23 using Alibris + Abe books + amazon."
  created: '2006-07-03 09:12:52'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Lettering lessons from <a href="http://typographi.com/000756.php">Frank Blokland</a>.
  created: '2006-07-03 09:17:07'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: 'Thanks! That site is pretty sweet. The lesson seems cool and the site is
    fun to explore. '
  created: '2006-07-03 09:51:56'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Any suggestions for left-handers? I know there are angled nibs, but they
    always seemed kinda awkward to me. Southpaws have not only the problem of smearing
    the ink we've just written, but also pushing the nib ahead of our hand instead
    of letting it trail behind it. \r\nThis does tend to leave us constructing the
    letterforms for everyday handwriting differently from right-handers (eg tending
    to start a capital E at the top-right hand corner and then drawing the central
    crossbar right-to-left).\r\nOr am I just making excuses for myself because I know
    my handwriting is crap? I'd love to have an elegant script like my dad (and his
    generation?) did...\r\n\r\n________________________________________\r\nEver since
    I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2006-07-03 11:35:03'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "The calligraphy basic exercises (forming oooooo and mmmmmm shapes) are just
    as applicable for the lefthanded, just a little more complicated, you could try
    cutting a pencil to a chisel point and amending that (by using it and wearing
    down the edges you need to use) until you achieve an angle that you can make successful
    marks with, rather than using a pen which will reduce the pushing problem or you
    could try working upsidedown (I know someone who does this and it's not for everyone).
    It's a different discipline to lettering though.\r\nTim"
  children:
  - author:
      name: dtw
      picture: 110803
    body: "Thanks Tim.\r\n\r\n<cite>It\u2019s a different discipline to lettering
      though.</cite>\r\nUnderstood; but it's the sort of thing where if you can write
      it elegantly to start with, you have something to base a calligraphic lettering
      solution on.\r\n\r\n<cite>...could try working upside down (I know someone who
      does this and it\u2019s not for everyone)</cite>\r\nLOL; I can see how that
      would work, but it'd take a while to get used to (basically learning to write
      all over again AND without the contextual cues of seeing it look right while
      you're writing it) and boy would you get some funny looks if you ever chose
      to do that in company!!\r\n\r\n_________________________________________\r\nEver
      since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
    created: '2006-07-03 13:17:16'
  created: '2006-07-03 12:14:43'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "One might follow the other, handwriting can be improved by calligraphy too.
    The difference in disciplines I was referring to is calligraphy on one hand and
    lettering a logo on the other, for the latter you need more of a skill in hand
    rendering typefaces and developing them, they aren't totally separate but there
    is room for more imprecision with calligraphy. For that kind of skill I would
    look at drawing up a few characters by hand until you can identify the typeface
    by the sketch.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-07-03 14:14:56'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "[[Drawing_How-To]]\r\n\r\nAlso, I've been scouring Ebay for lettering books
    for the past couple of years. One of the best books i've been able to buy is <em>[[Lettering
    for Advertising]]</em> by Mortimer Leach. It covers Bodoni lettering, Caslon lettering,
    scripts and gothic lettering. a valuable resource."
  created: '2006-07-03 14:18:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Any suggestions for left-handers? \"\r\n\r\nMy caligraphy teacher in the
    early 60s (Arnold Bank) would walk by the lefthanded people in our class and tell
    them to work on Pointed Pen Italic because it was a left-handers dream script
    (and a nightmare for right-handers).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-03 14:27:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">scouring Ebay\r\n\r\nPaul, I often have used ABEBooks.com . It includes
    includes stock from used book stores all over North America, with links to other
    international branches. Do you find Ebay better, cheaper, different?  "
  created: '2006-07-03 15:00:47'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 're ebay: i''m just a junkie. i don''t know why i prefer using it, it''s kinda
    irrational. there are services that show used books from various booksellers and
    if you''re really wanting something, that''s probably the best way to buy books.
    i guess i''m really just an impulse bargain shopper, but i have gotten some great
    books at whopping deals once in a while (the 1923 ATF book in near-mint condition
    for ~$35) on Ebay.'
  created: '2006-07-03 15:28:17'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.pricegrabber.com\">Pricegrabber</a> is great for finding
    books; though it usually leads me to <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com\">Amazon</a>
    so most of the time I check their first, then <a href=\"http://www.abebooks.com\">Abe
    books</a> or <a href=\"http://www.alibris.com\">Alibris,</a> which has good prices
    and out of print books. <a href=\"http://www.oakknoll.com/\">Oak Knoll Press!</a>
    is an awesome place to look for rare books, I get lost wondering through their.
    In fact check out their <a href=\"http://www.oakknoll.com/specialties.php?selected_specialty=29\">Typography
    Selection.</a>\r\n\r\nWhile I'm on the subject <a href=\"http://www.publishedart.com.au/bookshop.html?book_id=1598\">Published
    Art,</a> <a href=\"http://www.3deep.publishing.com.au/\">3 deep publishing,</a>
    and <a href=\"http://www.ballisticpublishing.com/books/?PHPSESSID=79429741efd2c58788e0d2af4c23db98\">Ballistic</a>
    have great designer books. Let me know if there are any other good sites I dont'
    know about!"
  created: '2006-07-03 16:41:21'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: lol Paul, I bought Lettering for Advertising; the 4th of July has put me in
    a sort of Frenzy so that I can't control myself. Anyway, have you read <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0278922686/qid=1151941621/sr=1-2/ref=sr_1_2/103-9760515-1103031?s=books&v=glance&n=283155">Letter
    Design in Graphic Arts, also written by Mortimer Leach?</a>
  created: '2006-07-03 16:47:45'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i have not... there are so many books out there that i need to read...
  created: '2006-07-03 16:55:28'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "ABE.com is def. awesome. I get most of my books there.\r\n\r\nThis discussion
    reminded me of a book by/on [[Edward Johnston]] edited by Heather Child called
    [[Formal Penmanship and Other Papers]] 71/77 Pentalic NY (sounds like one for
    the wiki) I got it at Half Price Books for $4.95. One of those semi-lucky days.
    Treasures abound.\r\n\r\nIt's ALOT of his sketchbooks/calligraphy and also tutorials
    written by himself.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ejFP_4618.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    do like ebay for somethings, i get really annoyed fighting for stuff tho. I find
    the best treasures on ABE or at the used book store.\r\n\r\nI found this recently
    for rare books\u2026\r\n\r\nhttp://www.abaa.org/cgi-bin/abaa/abaapages/index.html"
  created: '2006-07-04 00:27:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">So what are some good practices I can do to learn how to hand letter beatutiful
    type?\r\nHand lettering and Calligraphiy were two things. If you want to learn
    the former, a good practice is to tracing letters.\r\n\r\n>Any suggestions for
    left-handers? \u201C\r\nMy caligraphy teacher in the early 70s would walk by the
    lefthanded people, go back into his office, get a lugar automatic pistol, and
    bring it to you. No lie. And this, was a required course. I changed hands until
    I got migranes, then I went into the litholab, learned backwards left-handed,
    printed, and got credit for two classes by the time I was through with them four
    years later."
  created: '2006-07-05 20:39:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"My caligraphy teacher in the early 70s would walk by the lefthanded people,
    go back into his office, get a lugar automatic pistol, and bring it to you.\"\r\n\r\nA
    bit more extreme than Arnold Bank but the sentiment was the same :-)\r\nArnold
    would just ask left-handers if they had ever considered a career in baseball :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-05 21:08:20'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>Hand lettering and Calligraphy were two things.</em>\r\n\r\nJust to
    agree and expand on David Berlow's comment --\r\nHandwriting, hand-lettering,
    calligraphy and type design, though releated, are ALL VERY DIFFERENT in intent,
    expression and execution.\r\n\r\nBeing adept in one of these disciplines does
    not necessarily give you mastery in any of the others, oddly enough. And to make
    matters worse, none of these talents will assure you of making \"good logos\"."
  created: '2006-07-05 21:44:17'
- author:
    name: caboume
    picture: 110905
  body: "Very well said Norbert!\r\n\r\nHand lettering is a specialized skill which
    doesn't include\r\nan automatic gateway to great designs.\r\n\r\nIf one is concerened
    w/ execution of an idea, then the computer\r\nis the place to be. Sketches are
    for concepts and ideas, not details.\r\n\r\n(btw, I had a very similar post on
    this topic awhile back, I speak\r\nfrom experience)"
  created: '2006-07-06 14:58:14'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I have to disagree, while a computer is great for producing final artwork,
    a drawing can save time and allows for quicker development, it also allows one
    to learn more about what makes up a character or word.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-07-06 16:56:38'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "We've had some discussion about computer vs. handwork in the past.\r\n\r\nMy
    take at the moment is this --\r\nEach \"tool\" has intrinsic apects that are unique
    in approach, hand-eye-brain processing, execution and result.\r\n\r\nThe more
    versed you are in using several \"tools\", the better you are able to make judgemental
    transferences between process and outcome. (Like using Illustrator to create chisled
    letterforms.)\r\n\r\nBut the unique experience of using a particular \"tool\"
    or medium can lead you down particular \"higher function\" paths... all viable,
    by the way, but all unique nonetheless. Like the difference between an artist
    using brush and oils vs. collage, or a composer writing a score while humming
    vs. using a synthesizer, or mathematicians/physicists solving equations on chalkboard
    vs. calculators.\r\n\r\nI can't tell you which approach is \"better\", I can only
    tell you that each is different based on tool and individual."
  created: '2006-07-06 17:34:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think different individuals \"connect\" with different tools.  Perhaps
    a more tactile person would prever carving letteres in stone and a mre structural
    minded person might like compass and ruler better. Norbert is right, each person
    has to find their way with both tool and process and make a home.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-06 17:53:03'
- author:
    name: caboume
    picture: 110905
  body: "<em>I have to disagree, while a computer is great for producing final artwork,
    a drawing can save time and allows for quicker development, it also allows one
    to learn more about what makes up a character or word.\r\n</em>\r\n\r\nI don't
    think we are in disagreement. The computer is indeed great\r\nfor producing final
    work (execution), and sketches are great for\r\nconceptualization, ideas -- development."
  created: '2006-07-06 20:29:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Just out of curiousity, Tim, are you speaking of art work, or type faces?
    These seem to be somewhat different animals. I think I heard that some who used
    to draw type all the time, pre-computer, such as Matthew Carter, now mostly work
    directly on computer. \r\n\r\nIf I remember rightly, a number of type designers
    reported here doing sketches to get ideas and initially test them out, but then
    move quickly to the computer, without doing a complete alphabet or refining it
    on paper.\r\n  "
  created: '2006-07-06 21:28:58'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I am talking about hand lettering logos, where for example you might want
    to shape letters on a curve, for an example there is <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/21102#new\">this
    thread</a> in the critique section. Indeed a different animal but not unrelated.
    The reason I mentioned drawing type (as opposed to tracing) is that, for me anyway,
    it seems to be the best grounding in going on to draw logos. As for drawing a
    typeface, I imagine that to work up a concept based on a few characters or parts
    of characters on paper followed by computer would work, but where distortion/ligature
    (or whatever) is involved I prefer to work out most of the detail before going
    onto computer, partly this is because it seems to me that opportunities may be
    missed when you get down to beziers. And as Norbert notes it is really about what
    one feels most comfortable/creative with.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-07-07 10:15:09'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"If one is concerened w/ execution of an idea, then the computer\r\nis the
    place to be. Sketches are for concepts and ideas, not details.\"\r\n\r\nFrank,
    how old are you? You seem to be unaware of all the products, tools and machines
    humans have made and employed over the millennia. Computers are a recent convenience
    that facilitate quick fabrication. You also seem to be unaware of how central
    drawing (what you call sketches) is to all this design work. There's more to drawing
    than sketches.\r\n\r\nThe computer is a place to huddle if there are no other
    skills present. Take away the computer, and you separate the inventive thinkers,
    the designers and creators from the mouse jockeys. Raymond Loewy did not use computers
    to develop his car, train, furniture, or product designs. He drew them, typically
    to a high degree of detail and finish. Computers are tools like pencils and light
    tables. Drawing is indeed for details and executing ideas. Just ask Adrian Frutiger,
    who hand-cut his own rubylith typeface masters, from his own hand-drawn final
    art."
  created: '2006-07-07 18:09:45'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: well have you used Corel Painter with a nice Wacom Tablet? To each his own.
    Though I still prefer paper, it is just my preference.
  created: '2006-07-07 18:29:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't buy the digital/analog split.\r\nOne can draw on screen.\r\nGrabbing
    a curve between two BCPs and manipulating the shape until it looks right is drawing.\r\nSo
    too is selecting a number of points, or even an entire glyph, and manipulating
    that with, say, the skew tool.\r\n\r\nThe distinction between the media is that
    analog drawing is about making marks, whereas digital drawing is more about adjusting
    shapes. For instance, constructing a path shape with the pen tool is very difficult
    as straight drawing, even with a stylus; however, the best practice working method
    is to draw the rough shape and then refine it with other pen tools. \r\nThe subtle
    real-time adjustment of a digital shape till it looks right to the eye constitutes
    drawing, just as much as making a mark with pen on paper. Drawing is the interplay
    of hand, eye, and image, with real-time feedback.\r\n\r\nWhile it's true that
    some curves can best be drawn on paper, using the kind of control facilitated
    by the drag of friction between pen/pencil and paper (or the suppleness of a fine
    brush) -- and scale may be a factor too -- it's also true that other kinds of
    curves, most notably those of simple mathematical form, are best drawn with a
    ruler, compass or template, and these are best done with a computer. Actions like
    playing with skew can only be done on a computer."
  created: '2006-07-07 18:37:05'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Nick:\r\n\r\nDo you think you would feel that way if you had never had any
    experience drawing? \r\n\r\nMaybe what you mean is \"I can draw onscreen\". "
  created: '2006-07-07 19:14:21'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">Actions like playing with skew can only be done on a computer.\r\n\r\nOr
    using a copy camera, or a photocopier or a Grant, it sometimes is easier/more
    predictable to use the computer, but I feel one does miss out not exploring the
    manual process.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-07-07 19:38:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Do you think you would feel that way if you had never had any experience
    drawing?</em>\r\n\r\nYou mean drawing on paper? Everybody has had that experience.\r\nI'm
    puzzled you think that working a mouse or stylus -- manually, of course -- to
    create lines in a software program, is somehow not drawing.\r\n\r\n<em>Maybe what
    you mean is \u201CI can draw onscreen\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nNot just me. Anyone who
    uses the pen tool in Illustrator (Fontographer, Fontlab, etc.) to create a path,
    either by clicking points and dragging handles to control the curve, or by using
    the free-form pen tool, is drawing. It's just a way to \"draw out\" a line.\r\n\r\nAnyone
    who grabs a curve between two BCPs and plays around with it, controlling it with
    a stylus or mouse, until it looks right, is also drawing.\r\n\r\n<em> it sometimes
    is easier/more predictable to use the computer, but I feel one does miss out not
    exploring the manual process.</em>\r\n\r\nDrawing with pen on paper is a manual
    process.\r\nDrawing in a software program is a manual process.\r\nIf you only
    do one, sure, you miss out on the other, as each tool has its own strengths and
    weaknesses."
  created: '2006-07-08 03:04:31'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I\u2019m not convinced that not drawing on a computer means you miss out
    on an experience you couldn\u2019t have with pen or pencil, conversely, you do
    miss the marks that pencils and pens make when you apply more pressure or use
    a softer graphite or a different nib or on a different medium \u2013 the approximations
    made by software are <em>still</em> pitiful.\r\n\r\nFurther, I am not sure that
    drawing on computer is somehow going to improve handwriting or calligraphy.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-07-08 11:03:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I view the difference between computer drawing and paper drawing much the
    same way as I did the difference between the several types of paper drawing. In
    the before computer era, we did freehand drawing, constructed drawing (using drafting
    tools) and even cutting with knife and straight edge (Rubylith, etc.). Knowing
    good constructing/drafting technique was not-that much aid in freehand pencil
    technique, true, but in training the eye and mind to see and understand, it all
    helped. There is no \"best Way\" to work or learn. Each person has to find their
    own best way.  It does help to drink of many waters though to know about other
    possibilities.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-08 13:55:06'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"Drawing with pen on paper is a manual process.\r\nDrawing in a software
    program is a manual process.\"\r\n\r\nNick, this is absurdly simplistic. \r\n\r\n\"You
    mean drawing on paper? Everybody has had that experience.\"\r\n\r\nNo, they have
    not! That is my point. \r\n\r\n\"I\u2019m puzzled you think that working a mouse
    or stylus \u2014 manually, of course \u2014 to create lines in a software program,
    is somehow not drawing.\"\r\n\r\nThat is not what I think. You have it in reverse.
    All Chihuahuas are dogs, right? Well, are all dogs Chihuahuas? \r\n\r\nMaybe I've
    not been clear enough: *IF* one has had some substantial training or experience
    with drawing manually, then of course that person will have some facility with
    a mouse and beziers. A person who has already gained hand skills can pick up almost
    any tool and make letters, drawings, shapes. Chris, Nick, not to be unkind, but
    you've both been around the block a time or two. There weren't computers around
    for you to rely on when you started out. That has changed. There are lots of people
    in the graphic arts today who actually have not had any experience drawing, lettering,
    or doing anything to develop hand skills. Are you really not aware of their presence?
    \r\n\r\nHand skills enable one to use beziers (or any other tool) and adjust them
    to match their vision without a lot of struggle. However, if the only skill one
    has is moving a mouse around and tapping keys, that does NOT offer the \"designer\"
    anything like the control, visual acuity, or coordination to convey their ideas
    visually, that one develops while learning to draw. If you think it does, you're
    not paying attention. Look around typophile for examples of people who can't get
    the thing onscreen to do what it does in their head. \r\n\r\nImagine your own
    life without *any* time spent drawing, sketching, comping type in layouts, cutting
    rubylith, painting, lettering, white-out, re-inking, carving, pottery, sculpting,
    cutting, woodworking or drafting. Then imagine starting a career in graphic arts
    with nothing but a computer and software. That's what I'm talking about, what's
    happening now."
  children:
  - author:
      name: RN Lee
      picture: 111596
    body: "<em>Imagine your own life without *any* time spent drawing, sketching,
      comping type in layouts, cutting rubylith, painting, lettering, white-out, re-inking,
      carving, pottery, sculpting, cutting, woodworking or drafting. Then imagine
      starting a career in graphic arts with nothing but a computer and software.</em>\r\n\r\nThat
      sounds like a wonderful dream to me. \r\n\r\nI think you're painting a dire
      before/after computers design dichotomy that doesn't really exist. I have a
      sterling example of said nonexistance in my own house: my girlfriend and I are
      both designers (and I'm an illustrator), and I'm a little over ten years older
      than she is. I *have* cut lots of ruby/amberlith, covered my hands and pants
      in wax doing paste-up, yadda yadda yadda, she's never had to even consider such
      a thing. I didn't start using a computer for anything until I'd been working
      in graphics for five or six years, she started doing design work on computers
      in her formative years, while yet unaware that she wanted to be a designer.\r\n\r\nWe
      both drew and painted as kids, and then had to do it as part of our courses
      in college. (You are aware, right, that art schools and universities still require
      you to sit in studios and draw nude people for hours on end, and they won't
      let you do that on a laptop?)\r\n\r\nShe's a better designer than I ever was,
      and I'm not ashamed to say that. However, I can draw rings around her. This
      doesn't have anything to do with using computers from a young age--she spent
      at least as much time drawing as I did. I'm just better at drawing than she
      is.\r\n\r\nAnd I don't miss having to manually knock out photos or put pages
      together or try to draw freaking ellipses, not one bit. Nor do I think \"the
      kids today\" are missing out on anything, not having to do that stuff. \r\n\r\nOh,
      and I rarely execute a finished pen-and-ink drawing anymore, and I *do* consider
      the illustrations I do these days with mouse and/or tablet real drawings, thank
      you very much, as much so as anything I ever did on bristol or scratchboard
      with pen, pencil or gouache."
    created: '2006-07-25 14:18:35'
  created: '2006-07-10 20:16:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Chris, Nick, not to be unkind, but you\u2019ve both been around the block
    a time or two.\"\r\n\r\nPerhaps even more than 2 :-)\r\n\r\nI am not dissagreeing
    with anything you said. Notice my last phrase where I said \"It does help to drink
    of many waters though to know about other possibilities.\" I think hand work as
    we did in the dark ages really helps hand-eye work as done on the computer today.
    \ Having done it for half a dozen decades, I have no fear of drawing. Some of
    todays young people may feel differently though.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-10 20:40:33'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" it seems to me that opportunities may be missed when you get down to beziers.\"\r\n\r\nI
    don't think anyone is going to argue that point with the \"may be\". But...No
    opportunities exist for a pencil sketch to look like a digital letter, and...even
    fewer opportunities exist for pencil sketches to look like a digital font. ;)\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-11 13:15:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u201CYou mean drawing on paper? Everybody has had that experience.\u201D\r\nNo,
    they have not! That is my point.</em>\r\n\r\nCarl, everybody starts out drawing
    on paper, usually with Crayola.\r\nI'm defining drawing as the process of physically
    making a line, non device-specific, quite literally drawing it out. I'm not investing
    \"drawing\" with any cultural values -- such as I've acquired at art school and
    as a pre-digital art director.\r\n\r\nMy philosophy here is not to overvalue my
    own pre-digital drawing skills against those of (younger) digitally-centred designers.
    It's because I'm trying to \"imagine starting a career in graphic arts with nothing
    but a computer and software,\" that I'm wondering why it's necessary to master
    an obsolete medium.\r\n\r\nUsing drawing on paper as part of the process to design
    and render lettering or fonts is still legitimate, and I have a great appreciation
    for it -- but it's not necessary. There are other ways of working, which may be
    more in tune with present day reality, more true-to-materials than legacy media.\r\n\r\n<em>However,
    if the only skill one has is moving a mouse around and tapping keys, that does
    NOT offer the \u201Cdesigner\u201D anything like the control, visual acuity, or
    coordination to convey their ideas visually, that one develops while learning
    to draw.</em>\r\n\r\nI agree with you about the mouse being a poor tool, a stylus
    is much better. But I disagree with the notion that learning to draw can only
    be done on paper. If designers don't have hand skills it's because they haven't
    spent enough time developing them. Whether they do it with ink on paper or stylus
    on tablet is irrelevant.\r\n\r\nIdeas which are to be conveyed visually don't
    just materialize out of the purity of the designer's mind, they also concern the
    potential of the tools used, and the way the designer works with them. In that
    sense, it is false to bring the baggage of paper-drawing skills into digital work.
    \r\n\r\nThere is a relationship between old-school drawing, a certain kind of
    visual acuity, and classic lettering styles, obviously, and if some type designers
    want to create classic work from scratch, pen and ink provides insight. That's
    part of what I do. But it's not the only way to repurpose the past with digital
    media.\r\n\r\nI recall another Typophile thread, where it was revealed that several
    accomplished type designers can't draw worth squat.  \r\n"
  created: '2006-07-11 16:46:20'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"Carl, everybody starts out drawing on paper, usually with Crayola\"\r\n\r\nAnd
    some of them stop immediately after they put the crayon down.\r\n\r\n\"If designers
    don\u2019t have hand skills it\u2019s because they haven\u2019t spent enough time
    developing them.\"\r\n\r\nHow about ZERO time? Am I being clear enough?\r\n\r\nI
    notice that people who only draw onscreen or with beziers tend to be seduced into
    believing their work is finished long before they have explored all the possibilities.
    Sketching, erasing, testing several ideas, all operate as part of a pre-digitization
    stage that is very useful in weeding out stupid ideas, helping make decisions
    and saving time. That's really valuable to me, and judging from all the bad new
    typefaces out there, it would benefit a lot of others. \r\n\r\nYou can certainly
    digitize a typeface and then play with it, change it, transform it. I do that
    myself.  I just don't think everyone is making use of a development period, and
    it shows. "
  created: '2006-07-11 18:13:54'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Nick your points are good ones - however I think that they are most applicable
    post-training.  For lots of folks ( maybe not everybody ) there is no better way
    to train the mind to think in visual tems than with drawing & hand skills of all
    kinds. I don't think it's a question of old & busted media vs. the new hotness
    of digital so much as a question of having a full set of mental tools and approaches
    to draw on.  After you have some experience with the full set of tools and ways
    of thinking & experiencing you can better afford to pick the ones that work best
    for you. Being without the options is a kind of mental impovrishment. I think
    that Carl is sort of saying 'don't put these kids in a digital ghetto'. And if
    so I think he is right. I also think that the 'baggage of paper-drawing skills'
    is a rich cultural hertiage that is worth having a nodding aquatance with at least
    - again from a training point of view.
  created: '2006-07-11 19:14:03'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: "If you want to have\r\na good day to day handwriting\r\n\r\nfind a good pen\r\navoid
    the fat ones\r\nor anything\r\nwith\r\na button on it\r\n\r\nblack ink is best\r\n\r\nwhen
    combined with red\r\nperhaps even better\r\n\r\nand some time\r\nto copy styles
    of\r\nthe old dogs\r\n\r\ndon't listen to teachers\r\nor consult anyone in here\r\nor
    me\r\nfor that matter\r\njust look at that thread\r\n(you know which one)\r\nif
    you really have\r\nto know\r\n\r\nwhy\r\n\r\ndrink coffee once in a while\r\nbut
    don't overdo it\r\nyour hands will start shaking\r\nand you'll write\r\nlike an
    old wounded hen\r\nif you don't do that\r\nalready\r\n\r\nkeep scribbling\r\nor
    scrawling\r\nwhatever you prefer\r\n\r\nwrite some love letters\r\nor poems\r\nwhatever
    you do\r\nas long as it's not\r\ntoo corny\r\npeople will forgive you\r\nexcept
    for the jerks\r\n\r\nmaybe\r\n\r\nit's like a language\r\ndon't try to put\r\ntoo
    much at once\r\ninto your mouth\r\nunless you want\r\nto embarrass everyone\r\naround
    you and\r\nyourself\r\n\r\nwhen you're at\r\na point\r\nthinking\r\nthis isn't
    too bad\r\nor too good\r\nlet me know."
  created: '2006-07-11 20:12:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sergej, that sounds like Dwiggins or Cooper.\r\n\r\n<em>Being without the
    options is a kind of mental impovrishment.</em>\r\n\r\nHey, I'm all in favour
    of eclecticism. \r\nBut the poverty of being single-minded is also a virtue.\r\nWhy
    can't Jesse practise drawing beautiful lettering on screen, with a stylus and
    tablet?\r\nWhy does on-screen drawing have to be an imitation, or refinement of
    paper drawing?\r\nWhy can't it be its own beast?"
  created: '2006-07-11 23:03:21'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>Why does on-screen drawing have to be an imitation, or refinement of
    paper drawing?\r\nWhy can\u2019t it be its own beast?</em>\r\n\r\nIt IS its own
    beast!\r\n\r\nI tried to \"hint\" at what I meant by each tool having its own
    unique and intrinsic aspects, but I guess I should elaborate (duh... too many
    words to express what's beautifully simple in nature).\r\n\r\nIt's not about getting
    from Point A (nothing) to Point B (something).\r\nIt's about the pathway which
    makes for unique learning and discovery.\r\n\r\nEach <em>tool</em>, each <em>method</em>,
    each <em>technique</em>, each <em>medium</em>, each <em>problem</em>, each and
    <em>every time</em> you engage yourself is an <em>opportunity</em> to explore
    and discover something.\r\n\r\nIf you could \"will\" a house into existence, that
    would be terrific!\r\n(And I'm certain that at one point in technological/biological
    developments, one will be able to \"draw\" imagery on the screen by mental commands.)\r\n\r\nThough
    building a house using only hand tools, or only power tools may get the same or
    similar results as the \"mentally\" constructed one, the <em>experience</em> (pathway)
    and <em>understanding</em> (discovery) would EACH be uniquely different.\r\n\r\nIn
    other words, it's not about the <em>end result</em>, but it's about YOU, how you
    got there, what you've learned, and what you've experienced... all of which will
    make your <em>next project</em> \"slightly different\" with something more of
    YOU in it.\r\n\r\nIn summary -- each tool offers unique pathways, and each pathway
    is an opportunity. In the end, it's really YOU who count and not \"how you did
    it\"."
  created: '2006-07-12 03:08:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Sketching, erasing, testing several ideas, all operate as part of a pre-digitization
    stage that is very useful in weeding out stupid ideas, helping make decisions
    and saving time. \"\r\n\r\nI know Carl, but how do you know what's useful, and
    what's stupid until it's a letter among letters, which it isn't until it is. I'm
    not saying no one should draw letters with pencils or crayons, but I'm fairly
    certain from being born early enough, that I know I could have skipped the pencil
    stage for type design entirely and not missed a beat, (with the exception of 1
    or 2 napkin sessions). I could not have skipped calligraphy. But if you look at
    development: metal types are made in metal, film types in film, sign painting
    is painted, and digital fonts are digitized, because it's where the idea hits
    the medium that type design happens. Before that happens, anything else is a substitute
    for a well trained imagination and experience. And, you don't get the experience
    to train your imagination until you know how to make fonts in their native from
    from the start."
  created: '2006-07-12 12:57:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I could have skipped the pencil stage for type design entirely... I could
    not have skipped calligraphy.\r\n\r\nInteresting. What did you learn from calligraphy
    as opposed to pencil sketching?"
  created: '2006-07-12 13:46:41'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Hey Jesse\r\n\r\nSome good points are made here; logo lettering skills are
    not necessarily the same as having worthwhile day-to-day handwriting.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    all of them are based in drawing and borne out of practice.\r\n\r\nIn addition
    to Stephens good advice at post#2 (which you say you need to re-read; heck! I
    re-read it <strong>all the time !</strong>) you could look at the writing manuals
    produced by <a/href=\"http://briem.ismennt.is/d/dd/dda/ddad.htm\">Alfred Fairbank</a>.
    These should be available secondhand at many of the sources listed above.\r\n\r\nI
    think I'm right in saying that Fairbanks work in the UK left a legacy of instruction
    for all English primary schoolers \u2013 cursive hand was still taught by rote
    when I was there, but like Bert says, that's going back a while.\r\n\r\nOf course,
    you could also pick up a copy of <a/href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/15712\">The
    Stroke</a> by Gerrit Noordzij if you want to take it further."
  created: '2006-07-12 14:00:21'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Interesting. What did you learn from calligraphy as opposed to pencil
    sketching?</em>\r\n\r\ni'm guessing [[ductal logic]] and a feel for [[notan]]."
  created: '2006-07-12 15:01:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"What did you learn from calligraphy as opposed to pencil sketching?\"\r\n\r\nI
    will let David speak for himself but for me, I learned that caligraphy is about
    learning to produce a cohesive system of letterforms which speak as a family and
    rely on each-other.  Pencil sketching was for me just a temporary way to communicate
    to myself a visual notion until I had the time and the tools to actually produce
    the form. Before computers, I would build up more precise forms going back and
    forth with black and white paint until the curves were as I thought they should
    be. I would then make photostats and clean up corners and straights with ruling
    pen, french curve, and straight edge. I sometimes would cut an amberlith over
    my painted letters using a swivel knife.  This was exacting work.  I don't ever
    want to go back and do that again but it did teach me to \"see\" rather than just
    \"look\". I think I can now see a bezier curve better for having done it the hard
    way but there is no way I can say it is THE WAY to work. Today's generation will
    develop their own way out of the tools they have--just as every generation has
    done before.\r\n\r\nBasically, pencil sketching is about talking to myself--like
    scrawlling a grocery list note and putting it on the refrigerator for when I am
    ready to go to the store.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-12 15:05:08'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "We've gotten off track. I'm trying only to point out that hand skills are
    much more valuable than some people seem to think. Especially, it seems, people
    who have the hand skills. \r\n\r\nRe: the question posed by this thread:\r\n\r\nType
    is not lettering. Type, calligraphy, lettering and signpainting all involve letters,
    but there are big differences. Type is an interchangeable system of forms engineered
    to work in any combination. Calligraphy can be lots of things, but it tends more
    to the individual letter, or sequences of letters as a kind of performance. Logos
    and lettering can draw from both, but they have the benefit of being freestanding
    and so can be very individual and expressive. \r\n\r\nDo a lot of hand-lettering.
    Calligraphy, letter drawing and signpainting are 3 good ways (that complement
    each other) to develop those skills. But you learn more in each area if you get
    some instruction. There are a very few signpainters who still know the techniques
    of brush lettering; arrange for lessons with one of them. Any volunteers or suggestions?\r\n\r\nFor
    daily exercises, get a fountain pen with small chisel nib and follow Italic handwriting
    models, slowly at first, then use it for everything you write. "
  created: '2006-07-12 16:41:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Especially, it seems, people who have the hand skills.</em>\r\n\r\nActually,
    it seems there's has been a recognition that hand skills are not solely limited
    to analog media.\r\n\r\n<em>Type is not lettering.</em>\r\n\r\nBut drawing the
    individual glyphs in a font is.\r\n\r\nTo develop drawing skills, draw by eye.
    It's no different than figure drawing with charcoal on paper -- you're looking
    at a solid shape which you're attempting to \"capture\" by describing it with
    an outline. So do the same thing with your stylus and tablet: look at a letterform
    (don't trace: you can put the original beside your drawing on screen, or look
    away to it on paper) and use the pen tools in FontLab to recreate the shape in
    outline. The beauty of digital tools is that you can composite as well as draw
    point by point. So, to draw an \"o\", you can either draw the outline point by
    point-- which is like analog drawing -- or use the \"oval\" tool to create a shape
    which you can then modify with other tools (eg skew) or by tweaking BCP handles
    or path sections. Stems can be drawn point by point, by using the rectangle tool,
    or by drawing a path and applying a stroke width (\"expand\" or \"make parallel
    path\").\r\n\r\nBut perhaps tracing can be useful too. For instance, try pasting
    an \"o\" from Helvetica Thin Italic into the mask layer, and draw over the outline.
    Then compare where the extrema points are on your version with the original, and
    refine. Another one: paste a Helvetica \"g\" into the mask layer and paste \"q\"
    into the outline layer. Now try modifying the bowl of the q to the shape of the
    g with different tools, to find what works best. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-12 19:11:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>Actually, it seems there\u2019s has been a recognition that hand skills
    are not solely limited to analog media.</cite>\r\n\r\nNick, I agree completely.
    \r\n\r\n<cite> Stems can be drawn point by point, by using the rectangle tool,
    or by drawing a path and applying a stroke width (\u201Cexpand\u201D or \u201Cmake
    parallel path\u201D).</cite>\r\n\r\nAlso a great point.\r\n\r\nBut you are not
    addressed the question of the experienced person vs. the novice this time.\r\n\r\nAnd
    the example you give is something that you know because of your experience.\r\n\r\nSo
    while these things may be completely true in the abstract; and particularly for
    experienced folks, I think newer designers get too precious, careful, conservative
    and restained as soon as they get in front of a screen. Why? I have no idea. But
    I think they do. \r\n\r\nOn the other hand when you give somebody a chalk & chalkboard,
    pen & napkin; or a crappy sheet of paper and a pencil - the very informality implied
    by the materials opens them up to a comfortable, playful and freer kind of expression.
    99 times out of 100 that rough crappy drawing isn't a product in itself afterwards.
    But it is a byproduct of something more precious - exploration, learning, and
    sometime invention. Which can then be applied in a variety of ways and using a
    variety of tools.\r\n\r\nLeaving the psychology of it out of the equation it still
    remains that most digital tools are not made with rough idea exploration in mind.
    They also offer an inherently more abstracted experience. Their profound power
    for doing one kind of thing usually makes them less flexible, more constrained,
    and almost brittle for doing other things. And even with a bevy of tools you are
    still in some sense just exchanging one straight-jacket for another. Which might
    be okay alot of the time if you have enough tools and experience.\r\n\r\nI do
    also think that each tool, digital & analog, has it's own personality and way
    of seeing that it can encourage. But for sheer immediacy and flexibility, both
    actual and psychological, I don't think you can beat analog - for now anyway.\r\n\r\nAnd
    the idea that digital media in any area but especially in type, inherently offers
    the potential or seed of some wholly new and self contained aesthetic viability
    \ - I don't think I buy that idea. And probably least of all where type is concerned.
    To take music as an example, the sampler did help to create several new forms
    of music, but not wholly new & independent forms. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-13 09:39:31'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>I\u2019m certain that at one point in technological/biological developments,
    one will be able to \u201Cdraw\u201D imagery on the screen by mental commands.</em>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.thebostonchannel.com/asseenon5/9506939/detail.html\" target=\"new\">Today's
    Technological News Update:</a>\r\n\"Matthew Nagle is the first participant in
    the clinical trials of the device called Braingate. He is a quadriplegic, yet
    he was able to use a computer with the help of the device. 'It was amazing to
    be able to look at a screen and a mouse and control it with your thoughts,' Nagle
    said.\"\r\n\r\nA few of the replies made by Eben, Chris, and others keep bringing
    the point home that previous learning, practice and use of diverse tools are essential
    to critical \"thinking\" and decision making concerning the development of letterforms
    and glyphs.\r\n\r\nAs demonstrated by developments in thought/mind commands using
    Braingate to move a cursor on screen, the questions now are:\r\n\r\n- If you remove
    \"hand-motor\" movements from drawing (pencil or stylus) what kind of images can
    be created? Will they be \"New\" or repeated from previous \"hand-motor\" experience?\r\n-
    Will a person with no previously developed drawing or design skills be able to
    \"draw\" as well as an experienced one, just on the basis of visual understanding?\r\n\r\nI'm
    sure we'll see remarkable developments during our lifetime."
  created: '2006-07-13 12:41:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Beam me up Norbert...\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-13 13:15:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Well said Eben.\r\nIt's the messiness of analog media that makes it expressive
    and open to serendipity.\r\nYou can throw your whole body into the process; much
    more physical.\r\n\r\nDigital is a different aesthetic, so if the question is
    about developing hand lettering aesthetics, the next question is, do you want
    to develop an analog or digital aesthetic? Don't privilege the old media over
    the new. Some people may want to channel the past by developing muscle memories
    from legacy tools, but others who want to create a new semantic groove should
    avoid that stuff.\r\n\r\n<em>I think newer designers get too precious, careful,
    conservative and restained as soon as they get in front of a screen.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    a myth. I've found that cliche-friendly students don't play media favourites.\r\n\r\n<em>the
    example you give is something that you know because of your experience.</em>\r\n\r\nExactly
    -- experience working with digital tools.\r\n\r\n<em>the sampler did help to create
    several new forms of music, but not wholly new & independent forms.</em>\r\n\r\nLet's
    save a discussion of Matthew Herbert for later. But on digital music:\r\n\r\n\"I
    really think it is possible that our grandchildren will look at us in wonder and
    say: you mean you used to listen to exactly the same thing over and over again?\"\r\n--
    Eno on (digital) generative music\r\n\r\nSegue to random fonts..."
  created: '2006-07-13 16:51:38'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Interesting. What did you learn from calligraphy as opposed to pencil sketching?\r\n>i\u2019m
    guessing ductal logic and a feel for notan.\r\nGuessed good, and that the paper
    can't move for one, and must move for the other. But overriding all of that, is
    the immediate ability to judge Black and White in context(s) that makes analog
    work useless (practically, arguably and eternally), when in the pursuit of unscanned
    digital conclusions."
  created: '2006-07-25 13:02:24'
- author:
    name: blairyo
  body: "For learning how to hand letter, this web page takes some beating. http://www.theletterheads.com/lhparts/lettering.html\r\n\r\nThis
    reproduction of a 1943 publication describes the basic hand lettering techniques,
    including one essential tip;\r\n\r\n\u2018Practice, practice, practice! Unfortunately,
    there is no magical wand here. \u2019\r\n\r\nWhen I worked in an advertising agency
    studio, an experienced artist gave me a useful tip; \u2018it\u2019s all about
    brush control\u2019. Another artist said \u2018think before you make a mark\u2019.\r\n\r\nBooks
    are fine, but pick the right one. An excellent book for both experienced signwriters
    and beginners is \u2018The Complete Guide to Truck Lettering Pinstriping and Graphics\u2019
    by Gary D Steel (ST Publications, $30). The book is full of colour pictures of
    the author writing and pinstriping vehicles, but the techniques apply to other
    projects and it\u2019s packed with useful practical information about lettering,
    layouts, colours and other associated subjects. I wish I\u2019d had something
    like this 30 years ago.\r\n\r\nComputers are great tools, but brushes and pens
    have several significant advantages; they\u2019re  portable, inexpensive, long-lasting,
    rarely break down, never get viruses and you don\u2019t have to upgrade them every
    year. Fine sable brushes are incredible value for money, but you must look after
    them.\r\n\r\nLettering is just drawing. If you can draw letters, you\u2019ll have
    no problems drawing logos. When a friend and I go to the pub for a couple of pints,
    we always take some paper and a couple of pens. As the beer flows, some of the
    drawings can be very good!"
  created: '2006-07-28 15:23:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good notan cannot be painted, it has to be drawn.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 15:53:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Good notan cannot be painted, it has to be drawn.\"\r\n\r\nWhy does the
    tool matter? Didn't the Chinese invent the term and do they not use a brush?\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-30 16:15:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's not the tool, it's the method - and method is always central.\r\n\r\nTo
    draw, you can use the pencil or the computer - the difference between them is
    mechanical* - the important thing is that you're defining the border, not the
    black body. Painting -which can also be done with the brush or onscreen**- defines
    the black body, and this is <cite>necessarily</cite> at the expense of the white,
    hence notan.\r\n\r\n* If only hypothetically, until drawing software actually
    becomes good, one fine day.\r\n\r\n** In fact even with beziers: think of \"stroked\"
    fonts based on skeletons, and Knuth's monstrosities.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nThe Chinese:
    hey, I love them, but nobody's perfect.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nSee also:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/29149\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 16:21:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't see how this explanation of the flaw in chirography with respect
    to reading could be made any simpler to understand. Anybody who still resists
    this logic is probably beyond hope.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 16:27:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hrant,\r\nI don't know how much painting of letterforms you have ever done.
    \ You are probably too young to have even tried it. You really don't understand
    the tool if you think you can only paint black. When letterforms are designed
    using paint, it is not a \"writing\" process. You don't execute a predetermined
    glyph in your head and have it come out with a few strokes of the brush--that
    might be a signpainting technique. In letterform design, paint in both black and
    white is gone back and forth until your eyes find the point where both foreground
    and background merge and become one un-seperable image. Type was designed this
    way for many years before the computer was invented. Designers were capable of
    seeing positive and negative space from the beginning of all mark making. The
    tool is the servant of the user.  It can be used well. It can be used poorly.
    That is only determined by the users vision and skill. Chosing a pencil can actually
    inhibit you into thinking about line instead of the figure-ground relationship.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-30 16:41:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're confusing tools and methods (still).\r\n\r\nI've done calligraphy,
    and it's painting. I have also done some brush painting (Chinese and Latin) although
    I admit it looks pretty crappy. In calligraphy and brushwork (think about the
    Chinese again here) it's virtually a cardinal sin to go back after the \"continuous\"
    stoke and patch things up. So painting isn't about physically applying some opaque
    material to some substrate, it's about how you're treating notan. So for example
    if you paint the black and then go back and paint some white patchwork around
    it (something some people -like Majoor- are known to do on occasion), that's just
    another way to <cite>draw</cite> (and a way more conveniently done on the computer).
    Same with Frutiger's use of scissors (although that's sort of hard to undo :-).\r\n\r\nIn
    painting the most you can do is <cite>accomodate</cite> the white, which\r\nis
    not same thing as giving it equal notanic weight as the black.\r\n\r\nWhy such
    resistance to thinking lucidly about this?\r\n\r\n> Chosing a pencil can actually
    inhibit you into thinking\r\n> about line instead of the figure-ground relationship.\r\n\r\nWhich
    is one advantage of the computer: instant and dynamic filling-in. But if you use
    paper/pencil, yes, do fill the form in as needed. However, experience can alleviate
    the persistent need for this.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 16:56:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"In painting the most you can do is accomodate the white, which\r\nis not
    same thing as giving it equal notanic weight as the black.\"\r\n\r\nYou obviously
    have never done it or ever seen it done.\r\n\r\nIt has nothing to do with philosophy
    or \"cardinal sins\", it has to do with seeing instead of just looking. I call
    painting any marks made with paint and brush.  If you want to call that drawing,
    fine, I understand your interpretation then.  To me then using your definition,
    any markmaking of any kind is drawing. \r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hof67a_3893.jpg]"
  created: '2006-10-30 17:10:20'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "David Berlow said: <cite>But overriding all of that, is the immediate ability
    to judge Black and White in context(s) that makes analog work useless (practically,
    arguably and eternally), when in the pursuit of unscanned digital conclusions.
    </cite>\r\n\r\nI don't know that I can argue with you about conclusions. You are
    right that it's that result which is final and that context in which the judgement
    must be made. But I think the issue is not the conclusion which which we agree
    will be digital but rather the process. \r\n\r\nFor example you design 'from a-z'
    according ow what I have read. I think if you met someone who uses a different
    method, th HOH method or the z-a method that you would not ding them for that
    process as long as the results are there. \r\n\r\nBy the same token if somebody
    thinks better in pencil at the beginning stages of their design you would not
    ding them for that either I am guessing. The assertion that I think Carl & I were
    making is that many people are going to benefit more from the immediacy of thinking
    in analog pencil mode ( or even brush mode as the case may be ). I don't know
    that anybody has done a study to find the ratio... however, the real point is
    that some people will.  And that beginners are better off having the option rather
    than skipping the process of developing skill. It's not the paper that matters
    but the brain development.\r\n\r\n<cite>The tool is the servant of the user.</cite>Chris,
    I agree with you general point. I would restate this way: Notanal awareness arrises
    from the head - not the tool. Hrant, about this method stuff, I think you must
    by definition define white with black. *And* vice versa. Simultainously. Or are
    you saying that you must define black with white? My view is that Notan is best
    defined as an active tension between the two & that favoring one over the other
    is self defeating."
  created: '2006-10-30 17:17:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> You obviously have never done it or ever seen it done.\r\n\r\nYou're not
    listening.\r\n\r\n> I call painting any marks made with paint and brush.\r\n\r\nThat's
    a definition counter to fruitful discourse about notan.\r\n\r\n> using your definition,
    any markmaking of any kind is drawing.\r\n\r\nIf you actually read what I wrote,
    you'd realize that's completely wrong.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nEben, we seem to pretty
    much agree about the definition of notan.\r\nBut my point is that painting cannot
    treat the two parts equally.\r\n\r\n> favoring one over the other is self defeating.\r\n\r\nStop
    beating around the bush.\r\nIf you agree that painting favors the black please
    say so.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 17:23:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Painting only favors the black if the user thinks that way and choses not
    to see. \r\n\r\nA project for a student to try: Start with a black piece of illustration-board
    and the use a brush with white acrylic paint to paint the background and paint
    until you reveal the black letterform. Use the number 5 as the letterform because
    it has most of the parts you can learn from. Do not sketch an outline or use any
    guidelines or straight edges or drafting tools.  Just use black paint, white paint,
    and brushes. Paint loosely at first with unsharp edges. Let it be unclear at the
    beginning, fuzzy, naive, unpretentious. Work as if you are going on a journey
    but do not know how to get there and will only know it when you finally arrive.
    Stay in the moment, in the present. Don't judge \"good\" and bad, just look and
    makes marks until you start to see something emerge. As this happens, gradually,
    your brush strokes will naturally become more defined. Work back and forth between
    white and black paint giving each its equal do. The point is to have the form
    defined at the same moment the brush strokes become defined.  You cannot force
    this or rush it.  You have to \"allow it\". Eventually, your number five will
    arrive.  The negative space will become the defining factor of the positive space
    just as much as the inverse. You will fail if you predefine a solution. Remember,
    you are learning to see, not to paint; not to design type; not to please your
    ego or anyone else's. The first time you do this, it may take days, weeks, or
    even months. There is no deadline. Those will come later.\r\nPut your 5 away for
    some time. Later try a lower case \"a\" using the same technique.  This one should
    come more quickly if you have truly done your 5 with no predetermination. If you
    continue doing this excursive in increments of time.  You will learn to \"see\".
    \ Afterwards, go to the computer and draw type straight away on the screen using
    FontLab tools and no scans or background images to trace or view. You will find
    that you will now be able to come upon letterforms and the glyphs (which are their
    product) more quickly and efficiently with far better figure/ground (notan if
    you will) than before.  The chances are greater the the glyphs you draw now will
    be your own and not just memories of type you may have seen in your life. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-30 17:58:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Start with a black piece of illustration-board and the use a brush\r\n>
    with white acrylic paint to paint the background and paint until\r\n> you reveal
    the black letterform.\r\n\r\nDone it.  :-)\r\n\r\n> Work back and forth between
    white and black\r\n\r\n1) No longer painting.\r\n2) Not how anybody actually makes
    fonts.\r\n\r\n> figure/ground (notan if you will)\r\n\r\nNope, the two are not
    the same.\r\nGo east, young man. But you have to be young = willing to grow.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 18:05:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"2) Not how anybody actually makes fonts.\"\r\n\r\nNever said it was.\r\n\r\nA
    closed mind is a terrible thing to waste Hrant.  When you ever decide to open
    yours, you may find there are things in the world to learn that actually do not
    begin and end with you.  Hard as that is for you to ever believe, it is the truth.
    \ For a young man you are so locked in your own self-fulfillment. You may never
    escape your own wall of narcism.\r\nKindly refrain from the rude emails and IMs
    you send to me. As a matter of fact, why don't you just pretend that I don't exist?
    What I said above in my previous post was not directed to you. It was a comment
    based on the original request which had to deal with developing hand-lettered
    aesthetics.  Silly me just gave J-polo9 (and whomsoever else may be interested)
    an exercise which may be directed at that topic. It is simply offered as a suggestion
    of a way to look at the topic. I make no claims other than that. It does not require
    your approval or your childish tantrums.  You are free to offer your own suggestions
    and I hope you will offer something more than vitriol.\r\n\r\nThis is the last
    time I will \"Feed the Troll\". I don't ever want to see another email or IM from
    you or for you to comment about me on this forum.  I will oh so happily do the
    same. It is a shame because you can be a bright and interesting young man when
    you allow yourself to be--\"a terrible thing to waste\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-30 19:14:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm not good at pretending. If I were I'd be painting.\r\n\r\nRude? Not listening
    is rude. And it's old.\r\n\r\n> What I said above in my previous post was not
    directed to you.\r\n\r\nBaloney.\r\nYou think we're stupid?\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t
    ever want to see another email or IM from you\r\n\r\nGot it.\r\n\r\n> or for you
    to comment about me on this forum.\r\n\r\nCould you please clarify? Would you
    like me never to reply to anything you write?\r\n\r\nIf by \"about me\" you're
    referring to \"personal comments\":\r\n1) You should know how fuzzy that border
    is.\r\n2) I thought we agreed to follow Paul Hunt's advice to limit them to indirect/non-individual
    phrases, which I've been trying to do actually - although I admit to sometimes
    being sloppy with the ambiguity of the English \"you\".\r\n3) You just lodged
    like half a dozen violations!  :-)\r\n\r\n> I will oh so happily do the same.\r\n\r\nYou
    can do whatever you like - but you'd be doing that for yourself, since I don't
    feel any need for you to do that. You can say anything you like (short of conducting
    a formal defamation campaign) via any medium (just no phone calls between 7pm
    and 9am please) and I won't ask you to stop (not even your dumb puns and cartoons).
    Because I have a grip.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 19:27:45'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "counter-logic: notan only becomes operative once a line has become the boundary
    of a real or imagined black or white shape inside a framed field; you can control
    the trajectory of a line in abstraction from a shape, but not the notan of the
    letter set--one of whose components the line has to become a contour of--until
    the shape it is to become the boundary of has taken shape and been put beside
    others of its ilk; and then adjusting notan by adjusting contours becomes relevant
    and an iterative process...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 19:39:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> notan only becomes operative once a line has become the boundary\r\n> of
    a real or imagined black or white shape inside a framed field\r\n\r\n1) A black
    AND white shape.\r\n2) Why the frame?\r\n\r\n> trajectory\r\n\r\nBetter to find
    a term unassociated with movement here.\r\n\r\nFrom what I gather you're making
    the -interesting- point that when you define an instance of notan using the border
    (via drawing) you don't immediately \"see\" the end result, and you control the
    end result through iteration. I have to admit I hadn't thought about the possible
    relevance of that. So what I would ask (sincerely, not rhetorically) is this:
    is iteration somehow disadvantagous?\r\n\r\nI can see how iteration is -arguably-
    counter to Modernism, deep down.\r\nBut as you know I would hold that up as a
    good omen!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 20:01:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Chris: Nice post!\r\n\r\nHrant, you seem more passionate than usual! \r\n\r\nI
    don't think we dissagree in any substantial way here. But let's see. The bush
    not beaten says: What you think is impossible I agree will be fruitless in almost
    all cases - that is unless special and unusual conditions are met. But, I think
    these unusual cases exist, and are worth aknowlegement & study. \r\n\r\nIn my
    usual way I will go on about the details for a bit too long - sorry. \r\n\r\nSo,
    based on the last two posts it sounds like the question we are chewing on is in
    partly sematic again; e.g. It's a question of what painting 'is'. I, and apparently
    Chris, have been saying that painting is just the act of using a brush. You have
    another defintion. That's fine if we all understand this. So let's put the issue
    aside for now. But even if we agree on a given set of semantics ( what 'painting'
    means) - it doesn't solve everything.\r\n\r\nTalking about Chris' example may
    help. Let's talk about Notan vs, Figure ground. I agree there is difference. In
    figure-ground thinking the two things are seprate. You consider the one then the
    other. In Notanic thinking they are one whole inseparable consideration. But I
    think it's also true that you have to notice the white again and to go though
    a period of figure ground awareness before you can eventually stop switching back
    & forth and mature to Notanic thinking. \r\n\r\nIf we agree about that, let's
    think of chris' example - I don't think that having white ink solves anything
    per se. The white ink is just a formaly presented oppotunity to mentally take
    sides in a figure- ground debate. By the same token - I agree that working in
    black may leave you with the tendency to think in black - but it isn't destiny.
    \ Ink='awarenes' in this model. I think I can see why. After all, you are 'working'
    in the black, so it stands to reason that you must be black centric - no? And
    it the vast majority of cases yes, I agree - that's what happening. But if you
    agree with my definition of the difference between figure ground & Notan you know
    that you have to eventaully loose the habit of 'taking sides' and take a whole/Notaic
    point of view. So while ink may represent a strong tendency, ink can't equal awareness
    in an absolute sense.\r\n\r\nSince ink isn't = 'awareness', I think that a person
    with black ink & a chinese brush ( or a quill, or a stick or mop ) can make glyph
    on a white surface (with no white to correct their marks) and still avoid favoring
    the black because I think the difference occurs exclusively in the mind. I don't
    want to discount the idea that techniques and materials have qualities and tendencies
    that are worth thinking about, and even resisting at times - but again: they are
    not destiny.\r\n\r\nSo I think it is possible to give B & W it's equal due working
    just in black - but that it's hard. Very hard. Probably too hard to do without
    tons of practice. But it's *possible* and desirable - and essential if you are
    going to be a good calligrapher. \r\n\r\nSide issue: The odd thing is I even think
    you can end up with pro-Notanic choices in your work to some degree without thinking
    about it, noticing it's happening, or giving it a name. And that this Notanic
    sensitivity can become present in your work as a natural result of sustained activity,
    intensity and maturation. I don't know that it can be brought to it's fullest
    state of development this way but I think it can start to bud. This is because
    I think that Notanal awareness is not synthetic in origin - it's naturaly present
    and available for cultivation.\r\n\r\nChris, do we disagree about any of this?"
  created: '2006-10-30 20:31:39'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Instead of trajectory try path.\r\n\r\nIterative tuning isn't disadvantageous:
    it's the key in type design and lettering to what can be gained over direct writing,
    in both optical grammatical terms and gestural atmospheric terms.\r\n\r\nI'll
    stick with OR because a shape is never black AND white.\r\n\r\nThe field has to
    be framed in order for there to be a counter shape and the criterion of notan
    to be applicable. In <em>words</em> the <em>boundary of the bounded map</em> is
    the frame within which the criterion of typographical notan applies."
  created: '2006-10-30 20:43:12'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[ figure / ground ]\r\n\r\nIn perceptual word-objects both the white and
    black are 'information' toward visual wordform resolution. The word is a bounded
    map of black AND white information in perceptual processing terms. It's all figure.
    What is outside the bounded map is ground."
  created: '2006-10-30 20:50:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben,\r\nwe are close but I am not sure of one thing. Figure ground is a
    term I used. You could also use the terms yin and yang and get a bit closer to
    what I mean.  You can talk about figure and ground to indicate parts.  I prefer
    this to black and white because there is no rule that says figure and ground need
    have any particular colors.  This also gets away from the \"positive\" vs \"negative\"
    judgement thing when you use those terms.  I do not claim to \"know\" notan. I
    describe only what it seems to mean for me.  For me it means a given state of
    a figure and ground relationship when the two are now inseperably in harmony and
    coexist as one.  There can be an infinite number of figure/ground relationships
    but most do not yeild this harmony. The act of painting that I described in my
    little #5 excersize is an attempt to make the painter resist finalizing an absolute
    figureground relationship until they find that moment of harmony.  Until then,
    it is fuzzy. If a person goes right to a computer vector program like fontLab
    and draws hard lines straight away, they can get trapped into thinking the precision
    of the medium has given them a harmonious form.  We don't automatically know exactly
    the form a letter will take and construct it in one quick setting--would that
    it was so easy! We tinker back and forth to find that exact moment where the figure
    and ground achieve unity and harmony (if that is notan, so be it. if not then
    please tell me what it is).  My little #5 process is by no means a way to design
    type.  It is just a way to train yourself to \"see\" so that when you are pushing
    and pulling those vectors around, you have an understanding of what you are looking
    at and are not overly enamored of the clean lines and curves that come so easily
    to vector drawing.  I put my brushes away years ago. I don't need them any more.
    I just go straight into FontLab without a sketch or a model. I have designed nearly
    2 dozen fonts in the last year not because I am a FontLab whizz (I am surely not)
    but because I learned to see over the last 5 decades. By no means do I say \"this
    is the one true way\", not even close.  Do whatever is inside of you as long as
    you keep looking outside too. I am only able to describe my experiences and make
    no judgements about the experiences of others.  I do believe that a person has
    to remain open though.  I have learned as much from my children as I have from
    my professors.\r\nFor me, we cannot achieve notan instantaneously. Read Peters
    very last post.  I think it is very key, it starts: \"notan only becomes operative
    once a line has become the boundary of a real or imagined black or white shape
    inside a framed field...\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-30 21:07:30'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[ Hrant ] \"From what I gather you\u2019re making the--interesting--point
    that when you define an instance of notan using the border (via drawing) you don\u2019t
    immediately \u201Csee\u201D the end result, and you control the end result through
    iteration.\" \r\n\r\nWhat is \"an instance of notan?\" You don't control the <em>end
    result</em> through iteration, you control the <em>notan</em> through iteration;
    you set up the conditions for its applicability through making your line the boundary
    of a definite shape, or making your shape directly. My point was a line doesn't
    define an instance of notan until the line becomes the boundary of a realized
    shape"
  created: '2006-10-30 21:13:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> So while ink may represent a strong tendency,\r\n> ink can\u2019t equal
    awareness in an absolute sense.\r\n\r\nAgreed. And as somebody like Gary Munch
    will tell you (and show you) you can make any shape with a pen, quill, whatever.
    But that's moot, because the question is: what's the point? Just because you can
    do something doesn't mean you should - it doesn't mean something else won't go
    wrong as a result. Contorting the tool and your joints should raise an alarm bell
    in any objective person. The tool DOES affect some things, somehow, for a very
    simple reason: whenever a human does something, there is an element of practicality,
    of convenience, of expediency somewhere. There is never abstract, absolute, control
    - we are limited, physical creators. It's not that the tool has a mind of its
    own, or that the creator is clumsy or dumb; it's that the creator is human. Choosing
    the optimal tool is central to craft.\r\n\r\nThe denial of this goes hand in hand
    with certain other things, like not seeing the difference between text and display
    fonts, and thinking that Familiarity is the only factor in readability.\r\n\r\nAnd
    the reality of this is that -like I tried to point out- nobody makes fonts by
    painting with black AND white. Because that's too contorted to qualify as craft.\r\n\r\nSo:
    when you make fonts by painting the black, in practice you're shortchanging notan,
    if only in a subtle way (but maybe much more). Not necessarily or absolutely,
    but <cite>as a rule</cite>, yes. And mind you, I don't think everybody should
    suddenly stop making fonts like that. All I really want is a simple admission.
    But even that has proven to be too much to swallow for most everybody. Pitiful.\r\n\r\n>
    Probably too hard to do without tons of practice.\r\n\r\nIt's too hard to do <cite>for
    any human being</cite> in the <cite>real world</cite>. Anybody who claims he's
    doing it is suffering from hubris or ignorance. Eventually, theory should hit
    the pavement, and when it does, an admission is in order.\r\n\r\n> you can end
    up with pro-Notanic choices in your work to some\r\n> degree without thinking
    about it, noticing it\u2019s happening,\r\n> or giving it a name.\r\n\r\nI agree.\r\nAnd
    that's nicely PoMo.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n> Instead of trajectory try path.\r\n\r\nSlightly
    better.\r\n\r\nIteration: I'm glad you think that it is actually an advantage.\r\n\r\n>
    I\u2019ll stick with OR because a shape is never black AND white.\r\n\r\nBut notan
    is always both.\r\n\r\n> The field has to be framed in order for ...\r\n\r\nI'm
    still unclear.\r\nDo you think your \"shape + frame\" is my notan?\r\nDoesn't
    sound like it - but then I don't get it.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nThe difference between
    a useful meaning of figure-ground and a useful meaning of notan is an entire world.
    The former is divisive, the latter unifying.\r\n\r\n> I have learned as much from
    my children as I have from my professors.\r\n\r\nEven more important than where
    you learn from is not stopping.\r\n\r\n> we cannot achieve notan instantaneously.\r\n\r\nAnd
    that is a good thing, and something painting goes against.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 21:37:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Peter, our terms are slightly offset (at best), so please allow some room
    for \"play\". When I say \"an instance of notan\", I mean a given black&white
    shape, \"a notan\" if you will; when I say \"end result\" I mean the instance
    of notan that you can't/don't see/have at first but arrive at (in some meaning
    of the term arrive).\r\n\r\n> a line doesn\u2019t define an instance of notan
    until\r\n> the line becomes the boundary of a realized shape\r\n\r\nSure.\r\nIs
    this something you see as opposed to something in my view?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 21:41:28'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"Is this something you see as opposed to something in my view?\" [Hrant]\r\n\r\nIt
    implies the logic underneath your methodological preference needs to be resisted--or
    at least interrogated. "
  created: '2006-10-30 22:18:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Chris said <cite> We are close but I am not sure of one thing. Figure ground
    is a term I used.</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe it's just a semantic difference. I certainly
    could be. I made the distiction because it suited my arguement, 'figure ground'
    being dichotimous in formal structure vs 'Notan' which is one word. It fit so
    well I thought... Also, the english langauge and western approaches to these things
    have been very distction driven - historically speaking. Meaning. We tend to focus
    on differences rather than wholes. It's a very useful way of doing things. You
    can be so specific! But there is a tendency in our culture to believe that you
    can describe something fully by breaking it down & cataloging it's parts. To be
    dichotimous in our thinking. I think I was after a description of a mental state
    where that had temporarily stopped happening & Notan as a whole was being attended
    to. Sort of like being in the 'zone' as they say... I know very whoosh-whoosh
    huh? Anyway. I suspect that in my zeal I treated the term you used a bit roughly
    & pehaps you by extension. If so, I am sorry.\r\n\r\n<cite> 'I do not claim to
    \u201Cknow\u201D notan.' & 'By no means do I say \u201Cthis is the one true way\u201D,
    not even close.'</cite>\r\nLikewise.\r\n\r\n<cite>'Better to find a term unassociated
    with movement here.'  & 'Instead of trajectory try path.'</cite>\r\nAgreed.\r\n\r\nRE:
    Boundries. <cite> The field has to be framed in order for their to be a counter
    shape and the criterion of notan to be applicable. </cite>\r\n\r\nI don't think
    is is completely correct. I think that Notan occurs in response to lots of kinds
    of boundries - The edge of the paper for instance. And as you point out the shape
    of glyphs next to each other. I think there are lots of implied & literal frames.
    Of course from the type designers point of view many of these are not controlable
    and not relevant as a result. It still exists. Whereas the way letters interact-
    is. Nice description of that BTW. I still like the 'bounded map'. Likewise thereis
    the Notan of the page for the graphic designer...\r\n\r\nRE: The idea that Notan
    only forms when one glyph relates to another. \r\n\r\n<cite>... but not the notan
    of the letter set </cite>\r\nAgreed. \r\n\r\n<cite>My point was a line doesn\u2019t
    define an instance of notan until the line becomes the boundary of a realized
    shape <cite> Or imagined shape? like you say here:\r\n<cite>or imagined black
    or white shape</cite>\r\n\r\nAlso, does this mean you are willing to talk about
    the Notan of a single Glyph's shape? Just as I think that there is Notan existing
    outside the bounded map despite the fact that we are not looking at it at the
    time (by definition of the bounded map - no?). I think there is also the Notan
    of the single glyph which can then contribute to the Notan of the wordform or
    realized shape.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 22:29:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I think notan would operate at every level where the reader has at some point
    turned the parts into a whole. i.e. the letter parts, the syllable parts, the
    word parts, the phrase and sentence parts, the paragraph parts, and the page parts.
    These are all involved in immersive reading. The actual point of text that's being
    read at any one moment is like the part of a giant fractal pattern of meaning
    which the reader is focusing on.  Or perhaps the image of the text is like a lens
    on its meaning; the reader focuses on the moment at the centre of the lens, but
    that would be impossible without the rest of the publication forming the rest
    of the lens and the eyeglass frame.
  created: '2006-10-30 23:03:26'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Still replying to Hrant]\r\n\r\nYou want to begin with drawing contours.
    Unless your line describes a circle, to make your line the boundary of a shape
    you need to make a second line. In doing this you commit yourself to a realized
    or definable shape while leaving the countershape pre-defined, unless you are
    working in a rectangular frame with a set dimension. That is, you are committing
    yourself to either the black or to the white, because besides the two lines nothing
    else that is relevant to gauging notan yet exists. The rectangle in which you
    are working is not relevant because it bears no resmblance to the context of letters
    in which your shape has to work.\r\n\r\nSo your scheme has the same problem that
    the method you oppose has, in that it in reality prejudices either the black or
    the white with the very second move you make, with the added problem that the
    second contour is constrained by a line that can never anticipate the counters
    that the shape put in place by the second line create.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 23:04:26'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>So your scheme has the same problem that the method you oppose has</em>\r\n\r\n...oooooh.
    i just love deconstruction."
  created: '2006-10-30 23:19:07'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"I think notan would operate at every level where the reader has at some
    point turned the parts into a whole.\" [Nick]\r\n\r\nVery true. But the notan
    that obtains at the level of the wordform is in a way fundamental once the text
    has been engaged."
  created: '2006-10-30 23:20:20'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: i need the cliffnotes version of my thread.
  created: '2006-10-31 01:02:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-31 01:52:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Sorry if your thread was hijacked!\r\n\r\nAt least the 1st half was directly
    relevant... actually, sometimes wandering thread spawn new ones... maybe it's
    time."
  created: '2006-10-31 02:01:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> We tend to focus on differences rather than wholes.\r\n\r\nIndeed. And
    we don't like to come to grips with the reality that nothing can exist without
    its opposite - that the two halves are actually sisters.\r\n\r\nNotan as a term
    is of critical usefulness here, whereas something like figure-ground is damaging.
    And no, terms aren't just terms, it's never \"just a matter of semantics\" - terms
    do things to our thoughts based on associations - sometimes in spite of us, sometimes
    subversively (remember my explanation of how some people [ab]use \"rhythm\").
    That's why a new (to us) term can be so useful.\r\n\r\n> I think notan would operate
    at every level where the\r\n> reader has at some point turned the parts into a
    whole.\r\n\r\nFWIW, this isn't how I use notan. This is closer to how I use bouma.\r\nNotan
    isn't a process or a phenomenon, it's a thing.\r\n\r\n> ... giant fractal pattern
    of meaning\r\n\r\nI like this - I think it's useful.\r\n\r\n> You want to begin
    with drawing contours. Unless ...\r\n\r\nI don't know where this first, second,
    third, lines and circles stuff is coming from.\r\n\r\nWhen you draw a contour,
    ideally you do so in order to form an instance of notan (and this is its natural
    result). As you're drawing a contour, whether it's closed or not, crisp or not,
    ideally you're looking at the relationship of black and white, locally as well
    as into the future when the instance of notan will be \"finished\". As we discussed
    (and we agreed is a good thing) this is necessarily iterative.\r\n\r\nIn any case
    the essential thing is that you're not physically painting one or the other component;
    you are physically marking their border - that's more \"fair\" than painting,
    and as fair as notan creation could ever get.\r\n\r\nSo I don't see how it could
    \"suffer from the same problem\". One problem it does suffer from which painting
    does not is that it requires a rarer breed of creator. Most people prefer to paint
    - they like to see, and take credit for, visible gobs on the ground.\r\n\r\n>
    the notan that obtains at the level of the wordform is\r\n> in a way fundamental
    once the text has been engaged.\r\n\r\nI think the fundamental one is at the level
    of boumas,\r\nwith words (and single letters) being special cases.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-31 04:24:00'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"When you draw a contour, ideally you do so in order to form an instance
    of notan (and this is its natural result). As you\u2019re drawing a contour, whether
    it\u2019s closed or not, crisp or not, ideally you\u2019re looking at the relationship
    of black and white, locally as well as into the future when the instance of notan
    will be \u201Cfinished\u201D. As we discussed (and we agreed is a good thing)
    this is necessarily iterative.\" [Hrant]\r\n\r\nA manifest and manipulatable relationship
    of black and white doesn't occur until the contour becomes the contour of a realized
    shape, so, to say it again, the notan (black / white of it) as a thing is not
    a fact, or notan (black / white balance) as a criterion is not an operable dimension
    <em>until the line becomes the boundary of a realized shape</em>. Until the line
    becomes the boundary of a realized shape, notan is just a future dimension and
    cannot be controlled. <strong>To manipulate notan or work toward it as a condition,
    or to provoke it's emergence, you <em>must</em> commit to progressively realizing
    shape at the one or the other side of the border--one or the other side of the
    black / white divide.</strong> You <em>must</em> intially commit to somthing more
    than a contour. You <em>must</em> intially privilege the one--i.e., th black one
    or the white one--to evoke and 'get in hand' the other, and consequently notan.\r\n\r\nYour
    battle with 'chirography' cannot be won on the grounds you think it can (that
    it privileges the black and hence is anti-notan), because your method has to privilege
    the black (or white, if you start from the counter) as well in order for you to
    'see' any notan (bliack / white action). How your initial contour carves up the
    space on either side of it is irrelevant to typographical notan, because the black
    / white balance of any given bouma or word doesn't become manifest until the structures
    of role-architectural parts and counters are defined across the dimensions of
    contrast and construction, and laid inside the word.\r\n\r\nYou said: \"I don\u2019t
    see how this [i.e., your (pe)] explanation of the flaw in chirography with respect
    to reading could be made any simpler to understand. Anybody who still resists
    this logic is probably beyond hope.\r\n\r\nI'm saying: No, your logic must be
    placed beside a counter logic which uncovers the achilles heel in yours. I resist
    the implication that those who resist your logic are probably beyond hope.\r\n\r\nYou
    need to ask: is the way a ductal logic in principle apportions saliency and cue
    value in the white and black antagonistic to effective visual wordform resolution.
    I think it isn't, but I also think the hand held tool's phenotypical maifestations
    can be incrementally, strategically and intelligently superceded over time and
    the apportioning of saliencies enhanced by featural manipulation.\r\n\r\nI think
    the underlying motive for your rejection of 'chirography' is that you are looking
    for a more direct route to something more definitve, involving or generating greater
    perceptual distance between similars (such as in the d b p q) than an underlying
    chirographic premise will allow, without smashing the crystal goblet, and I respect
    you for it. But what I can see for now is that by your method you doom yourself
    to a featural eclecticism.\r\n\r\nI'm sorry for my part in this tangent."
  created: '2006-10-31 14:22:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Until the line becomes the boundary of a realized shape, notan is just
    a future dimension and cannot be controlled. To manipulate notan or work toward
    it as a condition, you must commit to progressively realizing shape at the one
    or the other side of the border.\"\r\n\r\nThis is exactly what I was hoping to
    say before (but failing badly).  Beautifully said above by Mr. Enneson! Thank
    you Peter for clarifying that.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-31 14:40:38'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: ">And we don\u2019t like to come to grips with the reality that nothing can
    exist without its opposite - that the two halves are actually sisters.\r\n\r\nthis
    was actually the explanation to my deconstruction comment, deconstruction theory
    holds that all terms are defined by and contain their opposite (and thus they
    are not really opposites are they, precious?)"
  created: '2006-10-31 14:56:12'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Paul, I thought your 'deconstruction' comment was a comment about what I
    was trying to do with Hrant's logic. Chris, thanks. My generalization feed off
    the exercise you described. Your exercise helped me bring in focus the source
    of my discomfort with Hrant's oestensibly irresitable logic (which has to be out
    there to be gotten beyond). \r\n\r\nHrant my comments don't mean your wish not
    to be constrained by a ductal logic doesn't have some merit. But to break it's
    rules you have to know them, and than starting with contours to diversify counters
    within similar bowls (for instance) to strengthen their cue-value may indeed keep
    you from being distracted by filled-in shape and have a strategic exploratory
    function."
  created: '2006-10-31 15:45:24'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I thought your \u2018deconstruction\u2019 comment was a comment about
    what I was trying to do with Hrant\u2019s logic.</em>\r\n\r\nyes, that too. that
    was serendipity."
  created: '2006-10-31 15:57:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Peter, here are the ways in which your argument is false/misleading:\r\n1)
    A shape does not need to be \"realized\" for it to be manipulatable (otherwise
    we could never start making a shape by drawing) and it doesn't need to be fully
    manifest for us to be able to think about it (while giving the white and black
    fair treatment). An instance of notan does not need to be a \"fact\" for us to
    work on making it so (obviously). And the <cite>fact</cite> that we're marking
    the border of notan and not one of its bodies is a qualitative advantage over
    painting.\r\n2) If the human mind indeed cannot see/address both halves simultaneously
    (which I am not sure of one bit, and I don't see how you can be yourself) drawing
    still has the qualitative advantage over painting of <cite>physically</cite> allowing
    an optimally fair addressing of both halves. Also, your \"intially\" is false,
    since -as we agree- this is an iterative system that operates -until the last
    instant- on an unfinished thing, so the important thing would be the aggregate:
    how much of the contour favored one side more over time/length? So it's impossible
    to be totally fair (what else is new in life? see below) and furthermore a person
    drawing the contour can persistently and consistently favor one half or the other,
    but he will still do this qualitatively less than when he's painting.\r\n3) Your
    cue saliency argument is not in this sphere; first we need to understand the tools/methods.
    Yes, we're not even close -as a community- to addressing your rarified sphere.
    On the other hand, if you do believe that a bouma (not wordform, come on) is relevant
    through a construction of its parts, that actually makes the non-committal, \"local
    notan\" aspect of drawing that much more advantageous.\r\n\r\nBlack-marking is
    inherently unfair to the white, no matter how hard we try, because we're human,
    and the physicality of painting translates to a real barrier. There is no weaseling
    out of that, not with contorted logic, not with bold.\r\n\r\n> cannot be controlled.\r\n\r\nTrue.
    Nothing can be truly controlled. That's why the Modernism of painting is a fallacy.
    The illusion of control and the celebration of the self are exactly why many people
    prefer painting; it is arrogant and naive. Type, like life itself, is too Real
    to be that way.\r\n\r\n> I resist the implication that those who resist\r\n> your
    logic are probably beyond hope.\r\n\r\nThat \"probably\" is key. Most cases are
    exactly that.\r\nDon't pretend you're a common phenomenon.\r\n\r\nYou need to
    ask:\r\nWhy can't I get over Noordzij? Why do I fight the\r\nobvious using hyper-elborate
    speculative conjecture?\r\n\r\n> This is exactly what I was hoping to say\r\n\r\nRight.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nI've
    battled against chirography for a very simple reason: it has a flaw which has
    been hidden, and it's a flaw that is holding us back, even after more than five
    centuries. My battle with chirography I've already won for myself; initially my
    instincts guided me, but then my conscious understanding cemented it. If others
    are losing the battle (or are running away from it) that's their problem. I try
    to help them get to the place I've discovered, but I'm no shrink, and I don't
    think any shrink could reverse a whole lifetime built on delusion using ASCII.
    We are all humans, not logic machines, and the appeal of a self-validating argument
    can be strong enough to cause our personal reality to overpower any utopian objectivity.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-31 16:32:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> to break it\u2019s rules you have to know them\r\n\r\nThanks to GN, I do.\r\nBut
    there are no rules, only realities.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-31 16:35:17'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"not with contorted logic\" [Hrant]\r\n\r\nI'll stop."
  created: '2006-10-31 17:01:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I try to help them get to the place I\u2019ve discovered</em>\r\n\r\nI
    don't believe your self-righteous, confrontational modus opoerandi is the best
    way to achieve your goal. It seems to encourage people to concoct ever more elaborate
    apologies for their chirographic bias.\r\n\r\nIf you were to publish a book named
    Counter Stroke, it would work better not as a closely argued refutation of GN,
    but if it were more like ES's Sheep book. In other words, show don't tell, with
    examples of Legato and other faces that support your theories (as much as they
    are able), the whole thing set in one of your own fonts, of course.\r\n\r\nIn
    fact, Counter Stroke would not be a good title, The Notorious Notan or All about
    the Bouma would be better. Perhaps those are too cute, but the idea would be to
    forground your buzzwords and positive aspects of your theory."
  created: '2006-10-31 18:43:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The self-righteous part is really not me - it's really just plain old complaining.
    For one thing, I haven't made fonts like I think should be made, and I know it,
    and admit it. The confrontational part though is, and I think it's a two-edged
    sword.\r\n\r\n> It seems to encourage people to concoct ever more elaborate apologies\r\n\r\nWell,
    thanks for noticing.\r\nOn the other hand, you could say that most of those people
    are unlikely to ever be convinced anyway. As I've said before (although perhaps
    it was elsewhere) if I can convince anybody, it's those who have the luxury of
    being undecided.\r\n\r\nA book would be great, yes. But it would have to be mostly
    explaining, not showing, not least because there's just not enough to show, yet.
    And that's always the case with any nascent, iconoclastic idea - it starts with
    thought, not matter. In any case though I would have trouble living up to such
    a book (or any book, at this point).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-31 18:56:54'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "you could always include a dvd with visuals in your book :P\r\n\r\nBut seriously
    the \"debate\" seems to be lose-lose here. I can't even follow it anymore. And
    the arguing seems to be overshadowing the information..."
  created: '2006-10-31 19:03:31'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "This post is mostly for Hrant. Peter I will review what your writing next.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    So: when you make fonts by painting the black, in practice you\u2019re shortchanging
    notan, if only in a subtle way (but maybe much more). Not necessarily or absolutely,
    but as a rule, yes. </cite>\r\n\r\nHrant, you are just substituting the tool for
    the ink. Which is not a good trade in my view because it misses the point altogether
    - which is that it doesn't matter what the tool is, mac, pc, pencil, ink, paint
    - whatever. You have to know what your aiming at & if you do you may get there.
    This is true for developing good Notan or any other characteristic. But again,
    the key ingredients are awareness and intent - not the tool (or ink). Your point
    about tools having characteristics has huge merit of course but is insufficent.
    Why? Because no tool can prevent or cause good notan. Only a person can do that.
    \r\n\r\nYou seem to agree with me when you say <cite> A shape does not need to
    be \u201Crealized\u201D for it to be manipulatable (otherwise we could never start
    making a shape by drawing) and it doesn\u2019t need to be fully manifest for us
    to be able to think about it (while giving the white and black fair treatment).
    </cite>\r\n\r\nIf I can, I want to encourage folks to avoid using the term Notan
    in this way:\r\n<cite> we cannot achieve notan instantaneously.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere
    is no achieving or Notan. Notan is always there. It's basic & notan means nothing
    without adding description. It can be poor or good or great perhaps but it isn't
    a term that confers some kind of superlative. Notan per se doesn't indicate intensity
    either. Notan exists with barely discenable mild grey contasts & with the deepest
    Black brightest White. \r\n\r\nGood Notan, as Peter reminds us is built out of
    context. In the case of a Glyph there is internal context; flags, bowls, stems,
    decenders- whatever is there. Then there is the Notan built up as the glyphs are
    placed next to each other - this is the Notan you & Peter are focused on primarily
    ( & rightly for the most part ) & then the Notan of the Paragraph if there is
    one & on up the chain of graphic complexity. The point of all this is that context
    is all important where the question of Notan exists. To the best of my understanding,
    Hrant you are mostly concerned with pointing out that you don't have a free enough
    hand and you are too chained to ductal logic & convention generally when you develop
    ( as you must) whatever Notan you get by caligraphic means. And really I do agree
    with this idea where final faces for immersive reading are concerned. But it's
    not enough to say that  - you need contextual alteration too. And strangly enough
    I think that the biggest & best resource for that is Calligraphy - ductal logic
    or no. Why?\r\n\r\nThat's because Calligraphers have something type deoesn't -
    ample access to contextual alteration. This access gives them vastly better opportunity
    for building Notan than we have had in the world of type. Do they use it? Some
    do & some don't & some know they are doing it & some don't. But the Opportunity
    is there - that's why I am looking so closely at Calligraphy now - to discover
    where the golden bits of Notanic contextual alteration are. That way I can make
    available for inclusion in Type of all kinds - even immersive text faces. \r\n\r\nRE:
    \ figure-ground, I agree that it is a sub-ideal way of talking about Notan. Semantics
    are not just a wash, there is a real point to choosing different words. But on
    the other hand it's hard to know what someone really means by a term until you
    see them use it for a while. That's why the meaning of words shifts so much in
    English. Just because somebody uses the term Notan doesn't mean they 'get it'
    any more than someone using the term figure ground guarantees that they don't.
    And 'Getting it' comes by degrees too.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-31 23:30:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I agree with Eben that terminology can sometimes be misleading. We now have
    a word in English for black-white balance--the Japanese 'notan'. This is useful
    because it directs our attention to a key part of letter design. But a word for
    it doesn't mean we understand it. I think to advance this discussion we would
    need a better theory of what constitutes good black white balance. \r\n\r\nOf
    course the eye can see a huge amount that we can't yet explain, so we can just
    go ahead design with an awareness of white-black balance. But we shouldn't kid
    ourselves that we any clear theory of what balance of black and white actually
    works best in type design.\r\n\r\nps. The Chinese pointed writing brush in the
    hands of a competent writer has a much greater variation in width of stroke than
    does a pen. If just the point it touched, it is very fine; push down down and
    it becomes broad. When brushing the relatively straight strokes that make up Chinese
    characters it has more control, and in more directions, than a broad pen would
    over the balance of black and white within a character. "
  created: '2006-11-01 01:17:38'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Eben, I'm not sure where to take this. I'm inclined to leave it with what
    I said. The statement you quoted from Hrant, which Hrant thought expressed ways
    in which my argument is false/misleading, contained three mis-readings in the
    first two sentences:\r\n1) Hrant says: \"A shape does not need to be \u201Crealized\u201D
    for it (I assume he meant : the shape) to be manipulatable...\" What I wrote should
    have been taken to say: A shape needs to be \u201Crealized\u201D for <em>notan</em>
    to be manipulatable\" I could have added: A shape needs to be on its way to realization
    for notan to be anticipated. (We can operate on that.)\r\n2) Hrant says: \"...and
    it doesn\u2019t need to be fully manifest for us to be able to think about it.\"
    I didn't say it did.\r\n3) Hrant says: \"An instance of notan does not need to
    be a \u201Cfact\u201D for us to work on making it so (obviously).\" I said: \"the
    notan (black / white of it) as a thing is not a fact, or notan (black / white
    balance) as a criterion is not an operable dimension until the line becomes the
    boundary of a realized shape.\" This means: there is no \"black and white of it\"
    until there is a black and white. In part I was playing on Hrants reference to
    notan as a thing. Implicit in my sentence was a distinction between the black
    and white of it as a describable condition, and the norm for how they should relate
    (equal-valence)."
  created: '2006-11-01 03:19:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Eben, this Modernism will not get you to where the important things live.\r\n\r\n>
    it doesn\u2019t matter what the tool is\r\n\r\nEverything matters.\r\nEspecially
    when the thing holding the tool is an animal.\r\n\r\n> You have to know what your
    aiming at & if you do you may get there.\r\n\r\nYou don't have to Know what you're
    aiming at; you just have to aim. And thinking that getting to where you want to
    be depends on knowing how to get there is a sure-fire way of never really getting
    anywhere useful.\r\n\r\n> Because no tool can prevent or cause good notan. Only
    a person can do that.\r\n\r\nA person can achieve instances of notan only with
    a tool, and any tool has an effect on the process. It's not a matter of prevent,
    not of absolutes, but a matter of what's a better tool for the job. You can make
    a newspaper face using large boulders dipped in guacamole - but <cite>is it a
    good idea</cite> is the question. Likewise, it's not a good idea to paint a text
    face.\r\n\r\n> you don\u2019t have a free enough hand\r\n\r\nYes, or more accurately
    that chirography/painting introduces arbitrary constraints on notan. Not insurmoutable
    barriers, but constraints.\r\n\r\n> Calligraphers have something type deoesn\u2019t
    ...\r\n\r\nYou're talking about the process, not the forms. And you're failing
    to see that calligraphy can't utilize this advantage to any real benefit because
    chirography necessarily holds it back. The dynamism of handwriting is not something
    that benefits reading per se - what you're looking for is something else.\r\n\r\n>
    it\u2019s hard to know what someone really means\r\n\r\nIndeed. Gorgias's #3:\r\nIf
    anything is comprehensible, it is not communicable.\r\n\r\n> we would need a better
    theory of what constitutes good black white balance.\r\n\r\nIndeed.\r\nBut first
    we need to realize/admit what our tools facilitate and what they impede.\r\n\r\n>
    The Chinese pointed writing brush in the hands of a competent writer\r\n> has
    a much greater variation in width of stroke than does a pen.\r\n\r\nBut it's still
    a one-sided marker.\r\n\r\n> A shape needs to be \u201Crealized\u201D for notan
    to be manipulatable\r\n\r\nNo, notan is manipulated, locally and anticipatorially,
    whenever you draw.\r\n\r\n> A shape needs to be on its way to realization for
    notan to be anticipated.\r\n\r\nA shape is always on its way to realization.\r\n\r\n>
    there is no \u201Cblack and white of it\u201D until there is a black and white.\r\n\r\nThere
    is always a black and white: one on one side, the other on the other side.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-01 06:01:13'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"...notan is manipulated, locally and anticipatorially, whenever you draw.\"
    [Hrant]\r\n\r\nThis helps me make precise a more sustainable claim: notan is evoked,
    locally and anticipatorially, the moment your drawn contour becomes the boundary--real
    or imagined--of a shape in progress. Until the shape is in progress through real
    or imagined filling in on the one side or the other, or through it's juxtaposition
    with an opposing boundary which is to contain the shape, notan is only a future
    dimension. \r\n\r\nThe placing of the opposing boundary and the filling in on
    the one side or the other are instances of the 'painting' which Hrant claims he
    is opposed to. My point is that even Hrant has to commit--attentionally or implicitly
    or really <em>in his process</em>--to the black, or to the contained space to
    shape the white or the uncontained space. That is, to shape them both together
    he must work on one side or the other of the boundary at a time.\r\n\r\nI ask
    myself, what's the point for me of pursuing this and subject others to it. Perhaps
    to find for myself and ourselves as a group a more right-sounding basis for action
    and for the discussion or assessment of the efforts of others and ourselves."
  created: '2006-11-01 14:40:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> notan is evoked ...\r\n\r\nSounds fine.\r\n\r\n> The placing of the opposing
    boundary and the filling in on\r\n> the one side or the other are instances of
    the \u2018painting\u2019\r\n> which Hrant claims he is opposed to.\r\n\r\nI think
    there's a difference between painting and filling in: besides (in parallel to?)
    the notan integrity issue, it's central that the latter doesn't actually need
    to happen (not physically, and not even imaginatively) and in fact -as you seem
    to allude to- you think (correctly) that I think it shouldn't be. In contrast,
    painting cannot proceed without \"filling\".\r\n\r\n> he must work on one side
    or the other of the boundary at a time.\r\n\r\nEven if this is true (which I continue
    to doubt) it remains that the two halves have an equal chance at attention, whereas
    in painting the black is never on the bottom. In painting, when the black lends
    a hand to the white and lifts it up to its level (but never above), it is at the
    expense of its own integrity. In drawing, the (aggregate) balance is natural.\r\n\r\n>
    what\u2019s the point\r\n\r\nEverybody can and should have his own point for doing
    something, but I think the useful point right here right now is a rather timid
    one: to simply make people wake up to the fact that painting, and in particular
    its subset chirography, isn't all honey and yogurt; that drawing, and in particular
    beziers, are a <cite>blessing</cite>, not a  handicap. This change of mindframe
    is the only thing that can finally bring type out of Art and into Design.\r\n\r\nOnce
    this is done convincingly, then we have a reading on our compass, and we can be
    more confident of which mountain we should try to cross. That's the difference
    between Modernism, PoMo and just wandering in the valley.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-01 17:25:47'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "The 'filling in'--real or virtual-- doesn't have to be complete. All it\r\nhas
    to be is on its way. But the conditional priority of a definition-generating 'filling-in'--real
    or virtual/ fully realized or still in progress--at one side or the other of the
    line that is to be an outline, is analytic to the notion of notan.\r\n\r\nI'll
    now claim: not until the contour becomes the boundary of two shapes, where you
    can only see what you are doing, or where you are going, by attentionally addressing
    one shape at a time, does your adjustment address notan; yet every movement of
    the contour affects both shapes together. So there is an unavoidable paradox here,
    which no tool can escape.\r\n\r\nYour painting / chirography complaint amounts
    to this: \r\n1) any mark with a dimension perpendicular to it's path, overdetermines
    the black at too early a stage--especially when this dimension sets the counterpoint--to
    acheive what you think needs doing (with shapes in letters) to enhance the perceptual
    integrity and 'divergence quotient' of the bouma for parafoveal vision. You categorize
    as painting, the products of any tool that adds a dimension perpendicular to its
    path.\r\n\r\nThe bit about \"what needs doing with letters to enhance the perceptual
    integrity and 'divergence quotient' of the bouma for parafoveal vision\" raises
    the issue of 'what the body needs,' specifically in this context, what notan does
    the body need? Is it a notan skewed toward keeping the black salient, or one that
    should be skewed toward making the pattern of the salient whites pre-eminent,
    or one that prevents either from dominating at any stage of vision? What notan
    does the body need for sustaining immersive reading? What notan does the body
    need to assimilate display? Should it be a foregone conclusion that the black
    and white should be in balance?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-11-02 23:38:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Hrant, I think that maybe we agree more than I or you realized...\r\n\r\n<cite>
    You\u2019re talking about the process, not the forms. Chirography etc.. </cite>\r\nJudging
    by the rest of what you wrote I am pretty sure you are assuming a meaning I did
    not intend there. And actually, your criticism oddly enough points pretty well
    at what I do mean. I am talking 'process' not the final forms. Or put another
    way, I am not advocating that type for immersive reading be made by calligraphic
    means with a rich overlay of notan centered contextual alteration. It might be
    interesting as a experiment... but that is not at all what I have in mind. \r\n\r\nInstead,
    I am saying that calligraphy is a rich sounce of examples of notanic contextual
    alteration that could ( in some cases, and not the majority ) be adapted to nearly
    any kind of type face. So you see: Processs. Exactly. The Constraints you mention
    - they can be recognised & dispensed with. Put another way the examples could
    be used with or without their Chirographic baggage. Don't believe me? Keep reading.
    \r\n\r\nLet me draw the contrast I have in mind a different way, Let's imagine
    that you do just what Nick suggested and you mannage to make your ideal text face
    using all the theory re: bouma, notan and really every other insight you can muster.
    Great! Now you can write your book. But that wonderful type, for all it's possible
    virtue is still going to be a sort of modernist mummified monstrosity. Why? \r\n\r\nIt's
    the way we make type: You had to make one 'a' & one 'A'. That's a modernist straightjacket
    there. \r\n\r\nObviously typedesigners have come up with extremely clever means
    of dealing with this limitation. And paying attention to Notan is one of these
    ways. I don't want to cast shadow on that acheivement. It's great. My point is
    that this acheivement can now be augmented. And if you believe in Notan as a source
    for improvement of type & text faces in particular, this potential for augmentation
    has to be taken seriously. Let's look at an example: As things stand, for a given
    notanic problem, an 'rc', 'gy', 'Wh' or 'WY' you can alter the forms or kern the
    forms or both. \r\n\r\nBut now there can be others solutions too. These solutions
    can be as small as altering a serif or as big a a whole new shape. Or a whole
    new pair of shapes. Could be ligature... Or anything, as long as the solution
    promotes good Notan and a Bouma with a successful cue value. And contrary to what
    it sounds like you were saying, absolutely none of it need be Chirocentric per
    se. Can I prove this? Sure: ligatures need not be chirocentic to be successful
    but they derive from a calligraphic solution to a Notanic problem. Do you see
    where I am going now?\r\n\r\nRE: drawing & paint. The distiction you continue
    to make remains dubious to me. You may insist but I cannot help but think of a
    new spin on your arguement to me that the tool matters - Maybe the tool matters
    because one tool may be more familiar than another to a given person and that
    familiarity may be one key to their ability to find the Notanic balance they seek.
    If I told a Japanese calligrapher master that the best way to create good notan
    was to make a set of shapes and then combine them and check them for good Notan
    I bet he would laugh too. I still think you can get to good notan lots & lots
    of ways & that the main prerequsite is that you want to get there.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    I ask myself, what\u2019s the point for me of pursuing this and subject others
    to it. Perhaps to find for myself and ourselves as a group a more right-sounding
    basis for action and for the discussion or assessment of the efforts of others
    and ourselves.<cite>\r\nPeter, I agree!\r\n\r\nAlso, your 'more sustainable claim'
    re: Notan seems solid enough to me. Except for the idea you put foreward that
    <cite> he must work on one side or the other of the boundary at a time.</cite>
    \r\n\r\nThis, unfortunately seems as bad as Hrant's insistance that Drawing is
    unlike painting. He is claiming that during the process of making shapes, that
    he ( and everyone else) can bridge the gap & perform the mental balancing act
    that lets you consider Notan. But that cannot be done with paint or ink. You are
    saying no one can do this during the process of making shapes. That you can only
    consider this question afterwards - and then adjust. \r\n\r\nBut you also say:
    <cite> A shape needs to be on its way to realization for notan to be anticipated.
    (We can operate on that.)</cite> I think you are closer to what I am getting at
    there because I think that you can consider Notan during the act itself in any
    media, with any tool - in the same way that you anticipate hitting a ball before
    you do. As Hrant says: <cite> No, notan is manipulated, locally and anticipatorially,
    whenever you draw.<cite> I am just extending his idea. Obviously in the case of
    type you are also dealing with these choices - good or bad - when you look at
    the letters combined as well.\r\n\r\nRE: Notan & Art vs Design\r\n\r\nWhile I
    think that idea of the Bouma probably is useful tool with which to promote a Hrantian
    idea about text type - it seems to me that the idea of Notan does neither favors
    ideas specially or diminishes it. The reason it looks that way to me is that Notan
    has to be attended to no matter if you are making a workhorse typeface or a very
    arty display face.  \r\n\r\nWilliam said <cite> I think to advance this discussion
    we would need a better theory of what constitutes good black white balance.</cite>
    I am not sure we need a theory so much as examples to discuss. I am working on
    that now. But William, if you want to have a go at it. Be my guest! Moreover,
    not having a theory does not stop us from considering this way of looking at type.
    Particulary when such luminaries as Frutiger advocate it.\r\n\r\nI am guessing
    that this idea of Notan strikes you as just a bit too New-Age or something and
    that until somebody shows you what they mean & why it's important using examples
    you are likely to continue to balk. What do you think?"
  created: '2006-11-03 00:15:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">William, if you want to have a go at it. Be my guest!\r\n\r\nI'm afraid
    I don't have any good theories of black/white balance. Yet :) "
  created: '2006-11-03 03:59:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Peter, I think there's something misleadingly \"over-determined\" with saying
    the drawing is the border between two shapes. Maybe \"shape\" isn't the best word
    to use here - it might be too... painterly. Because there really is only one (visible)
    thing there, an instance of notan.\r\n\r\n> what notan does the body need?\r\n\r\nYes,
    that's the question.\r\n\r\nBut I maintain that we need to first get a consensus
    on the (potential,\r\nat the very least - and I'm being accomodating here) flaw
    in painting.\r\n\r\n> calligraphy is a rich sounce of examples of notanic contextual
    alteration\r\n\r\nInspiration is one thing, derivation another. Yes, chirography
    does <cite>exhibit</cite> beneficial things, like stroke contrast. But it's important
    not to let it become more than an inspiration - essentially a happy accident.
    Heck, you can find inspiration for type design anywhere, like maybe the mating
    rituals of ducks. But if somebody claimed that \"there's no essential difference
    between avian sex and reading a book\" you'd probably think \"man, this guy really
    likes birds\" and wonder what his wife thinks about it, and when she'll finally
    publish \"Men who love fowl and the women who love them\"... Sorry.  :->\r\n\r\n>
    Notan has to be attended to no matter if you are making\r\n> a workhorse typeface
    or a very arty display face.\r\n\r\nAttended to, yes. In fact you do it even if
    you don't realize you're doing it.\r\nBut how you leverage it does depend on the
    display/text distinction.\r\n\r\nConcerning your point that our technologies of
    making/deploying type are too Modernist, I totally agree - both geometrically
    and structurally. On the other, I'm a big believer in using whatever tools are
    on hand to their best potential.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nNeologisms: the degree to which
    a person is receptive to them is generally proportional to his dissatisfaction
    with status quo, his need for change, his doubt concerning the integrity of what
    currently exists. For example, people who don't like new terms tend to like conservative
    typography. (This is more of an observation than some sort of jab.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-03 06:17:08'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"...misleadingly \u201Cover-determined\u201D with saying the drawing is
    the border between two shapes.\"\r\n\r\nTry: two shapes-in-the-making\"\r\n\r\n\"...there
    really is only one (visible) thing there, an instance of notan.\"\r\n\r\nOnly
    the thing is visible. It is both an instance of notan, and an instance of two
    shapes, one dark, the other light. We assess the notan-in-the-making by evaluating
    the interplay of the shapes-in-progress at the contour where they meet.\r\n\r\n\r\n[regarding:
    what notan does the body need?]\r\n\r\n\"Yes, that\u2019s the question. [...]
    But I maintain that we need to first get a consensus on the (potential...) flaw
    in painting.\r\n\r\nTell me what notan the body needs, and I'll tell you if you
    are right about the flaw in painting when it comes to type.\r\n\r\nMy introduction
    of the question \"what notan does the body need?\" was a recognition of the correctness
    of Williams observation that \"... to advance this discussion we would need a
    better theory of what constitutes good black white balance.\" I though it might
    be a bridge to a new forum topic.\r\n\r\nWe might also need to get a bead on the
    (potential) flaw in drawing. For example: a drawing action which has absolute
    notan as it's intentional object might not be able to guarantee a proper salience
    for the things that must have independant cue value toward visual wordform resolution,
    and you can't get a real handle on this until you paint. Proper salience is another
    thing the body needs.\r\n\r\n(What things have criterial cue value? In the 'o'
    it might be the counter; in the 'e' it might be the crossbar.)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-11-03 13:59:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thinking of it as two shapes is:\r\n1) over-determined because a single border
    controls the whole thing;\r\n2) not conducive to an understanding of reading.\r\n\r\nIt
    seems only useful in undermining a realization that painting is an arbitrary constraint.\r\n\r\n>
    Tell me what notan the body needs, and I\u2019ll tell you if you\r\n> are right
    about the flaw in painting when it comes to type.\r\n\r\nIf you can't explicitly
    accept that there's at least a potential problem with\r\npainting (one that drawing
    doesn't share) then I'm not wasting my time.\r\n\r\nI think your belief in [black]
    cue values arises from a desire\r\nto avoid what you would see as a betrayal of
    Gerrit Noordzij.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-03 14:56:20'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "My acceptance of the applicability of the concept of cue values comes from
    my reading of the \"Cue Values of Letter Properties\" in Herman Bouma's 1971 \"Visual
    Recognition of Isolated Lowercase Letters\" as well as some of Cyril Latimer's
    work.\r\n\r\nI wasn't being coy with my: \"Tell me what notan the body needs,
    and I\u2019ll tell you if you are right about the flaw in painting when it comes
    to type.\" I was trying to put first things first.\r\n\r\nIf the visual cortex
    responds to words as a pattern or role architectural particulars (blacks) and
    role architecturally evoked forms (whites), as I think it does, thinking of shapes
    is essential to an understanding of reading, because their well-formedness becomes
    as essential as their strategic balance in a word or bounded map.\r\n\r\nBetrayal
    has nothing to do with it. The force of Noordzij's logic in its interplay with
    yours does.\r\n\r\nYes, thinking in terms of shape does undermine a realization
    that painting is an arbitrary constraint. But I've said many time in different
    ways that feature manipulation is both the achilles heel and the boon of type
    design. Feature manipulation introduces norm violation upon beneficial norm violation
    to the shape boundaries imposed by the dimensional swept object (the painting
    or writing tool that introduces a dimension perpendicular to it's path). And the
    benefits exist in both the optical-grammatical sphere and the gestural-atmospheric
    sphere. The optical-grammatical benefits address what the body needs; the gestural-atmospheric
    relate to what the human subject wants.\r\n\r\nYou are free to choose your own
    path to introducing your norm violations to a system whose accessibility and bulk
    functionality is governed by conventions, but I reserve the right to try and trip
    you up when you dismiss the efforts and suggestions of others by appealing to
    truths that are half-truths. Your truth being, that when you move a boundary you
    are affecting both the black and white at once. \r\n\r\nYou do not really know
    which method will get you to 'what the body needs' faster. And you do not know
    that your perception of what the body needs is specified fully enough. To discover
    what 'truths' imply for action you must keep all the applicable ones in place,
    and work to an ever fuller specification of what the body needs. (The lack of
    consensus on what the body needs--i.e., how perceptual processing in reading works--means
    we are not there.) Design is a practice surrounded with countervailing pressures.\r\n\r\nPrescriptiveness
    doesn't wash; mechanical exercises like what your efforts or Chris's suggestions
    or Gerrit's practices, or Frutiger's, or Bloemsma's, or Zuzana Licko's, or underware's
    explorations entail , do."
  created: '2006-11-03 16:21:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If there are black cues, there are white ones as well.\r\n\r\nFurthermore,
    even if there are only (or even merely mainly) black cues, tying the two edges
    of the black (ie: moving front, and essentially any painting) is still an arbitrary
    constraint.\r\n\r\nIn fact, if you're right, my own current type design method
    is the ideal one. But I don't think it is - I think Bloemsma is closer to that,
    although he was still too Modernist. The closest to the ideal that I can picture
    is a cross between Bloemsma and Bilak. No Noordzij in sight.\r\n\r\n> Your truth
    being, that when you move a boundary you\r\n> are affecting both the black and
    white at once.\r\n\r\nEither simultaneously, or alternatingly, this must be true.\r\nAnd
    it's not true of painting.\r\n\r\n> You do not really know which method will\r\n>
    get you to \u2018what the body needs\u2019 faster.\r\n\r\nIndeed you're right.\r\nBut
    I'm gazing in the right direction.\r\nNot admiring my own hands.\r\n\r\nIn fact,
    I \"really know\" nothing.\r\n\r\n> Prescriptiveness doesn\u2019t wash\r\n\r\nI
    don't really understand what that means. And \"mechanical exercises\" are for
    warming up, not running. What exactly doesn't wash about telling people \"be careful,
    your [virtual] tool is limiting the usefulness of what you're making\"? It is
    in Art that objective opinions are moot, not in Design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-03 18:17:56'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"If there are black cues, there are white ones as well.\" [Hrant]\r\n\r\nWhat
    was this meant to counter?\r\n\r\nIsn't what you say implicit in my: \"If the
    visual cortex responds to words as a pattern or role architectural particulars
    (blacks) and role architecturally evoked forms (whites), as I think it does, thinking
    of shapes is essential to an understanding of reading, because their well-formedness
    becomes as essential as their strategic balance in a word or bounded map\"? \r\n\r\nThis
    also has in mind the well-formedness of the whites as shapes."
  created: '2006-11-03 19:07:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If cues are not only black, then painting can't be a\r\nsufficiently good
    method to achieve optimal notan.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-03 19:09:16'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "...and neither can drawing: to assess notan when drawing (in your sense of
    drawing) I have to attentionally 'paint' or focalize the white and attentionally
    'paint' or focalize the black, alternating between them to keep them both in play...\r\n\r\n...and
    I can't see the quality of formedness of the white until the formedness of the
    black is complete and the letters side by side, or vice versa if you are starting
    with the counter as early punchcutters did...\r\n\r\nBut we're going round in
    circles"
  created: '2006-11-03 20:16:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The drawing limitation you suggest, <cite>if it's true*:</cite>\r\n1) is
    due to the limits of the human mind, hence unavoidable (and arguably as a result
    not arbitrary);\r\n2) nonetheless allows for a nominal equality of the two sides,
    something painting does not.\r\n\r\n* What makes you believe that we can't evaluate
    notan (I mean both halves) consciously, even though -as we agree- that's what
    we perceive when reading?\r\n\r\n> But we\u2019re going round in circles\r\n\r\nBecause
    you keep addressing past claims of mine, not my most-recent counter-claims. Don't
    you see that there's a qualitatively different degree of unfairness to notan between
    painting and drawing? Is the absence of Perfection triggering an escape to non-commitment?
    That would be like me saying that Anarchy is the only Fair political [non-]system
    (which I do) but then claiming that we must actually implement it (which I don't,
    and/because we can't anyway).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-03 20:57:45'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"Don\u2019t you see that there\u2019s a qualitatively different degree of
    unfairness to notan between painting and drawing? Is the absence of Perfection
    triggering an escape to non-commitment?\"\r\n\r\nNo. The notan of a figure containg
    a slight s-curve inside a demarcated circle is very different from the notan of
    a configuration of brush strokes that together form an implicitly self-enclosed
    character with a referent. They are or can be each as good as the other in their
    own sphere. What achieving good light / dark means in the one instance is entirely
    different from what acheiving it means in the other context, and it is acheived
    by different methods. Your view seems to me to be premised on the idea that the
    notan of the bounded map of letters forming a word be more like that of the ying
    yang symbol than the of the chinese character."
  created: '2006-11-03 22:02:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If the tool in question is the bezier curve, there is a limitation which
    hand and brush may have an advantage. At the \"moment of inertia\" where a curve
    meets a straight, the bezier is unable to make the transition perfectly. The brush
    is not impeded in this regard however--even though it may take it many iterations
    before achieving it.  Until Raph perfects his new approach to curve rendering,
    we are all prevented from true transition of curve to straight.  Admittedly, this
    may be very hard for most people to see and only debatable by brothers and sisters
    of the cause who \"Wrangle\" with it in our solitude:-) \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-04 01:10:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Peter & Hrant - While other folks may find this discourse a bit opaque I
    am glad you had it. I feel (perhaps falsely) that despite the somewhat circular
    nature of the last few posts on Peter & Hrant's debate that I am getting a better
    idea of what they think & why.  \r\n\r\nPeter, I would ask you - maybe in slightly
    different words than Hrant - why you doubt that you can work on an instance of
    notan by drawing, as opposed to working on one side at a time, when you seem to
    agree that as a reader you can take that same notan in - in a glance. The idea
    that you may create with Notanic b/w simultainiousness is a key idea for me. \r\n\r\nHrant,
    I know that you favor one tool over another but again, I don't see why you think
    one tool must be superior to the other. On this point I have found you more insistant
    than illuminating. Perhaps I need simply to extend my rhetorical question to Peter
    to you: How can it be that a reader can take Notan in at a glance, a type designer
    can draw and look at his drawings of glyphs and do the same, but  a painter of
    a glyph cannot envision the finnished Notan he intends all the way from from the
    glyph itself to it's context. I am I will remind you not talking about the idealness
    of the tool for text faces but the frame of mind of the glyph painter.\r\n\r\nPeter,
    BTW very nice points about cue value vs. Notanic utility. I can imagine a case
    being made that Notan is a kind of sugar and that Cue Value is the medicine that
    does the work. But I think that's a primitive dichotomy. I am guessing that the
    reason that Hrant doesn't want to assign Cues to shapes in black is that he believes
    ( & I do too ) That shapes per se cannot be black. They can only be Notan. In
    other words no glyph shape is just black it's always the B&W at once. It's total
    impact is also always provisional & based on it's context - if it's on it's own
    or next to another glyph etc. So what Hrant is saying is that the cue is in the
    notan not the black shape. Hrant, if I am putting words in your mouth that you
    don't agree with feel free to say so ( obviously ). Still, if Notan is seen as
    only a 'balance' of B&W and aesthetic in value rather than a basic state of reality
    I can well imagine how a cue might be seen as separate from Notan. The fact that
    Notan has been used as a superlative by Hrant & others obscures the idea of Notan
    as a basic state. Thinking in terms of Black or White shapes is fine as long as
    you recognize that this thinking is an artificial abstraction from a full and
    natural Notanic reality. This is one of the reasons that I tried to dissuade folks
    from using Notan as a superlative. Do you see the distiction I am getting at?
    \r\n\r\nStill, your point, if I get you, about Cue value & salience being primary
    is great. From my point of view, thinking in terms of Notan instead of B&W is
    just a way of getting to better cue value minus the constraints of Modernism,
    Noirpremacy or Chirography etc. I think contextually altered Notan has a great
    potential role in promoting proper cue value. \r\n\r\nChris - Nice points about
    the beziers. I was thinking about that too.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-04 09:34:10'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I woke up this morning thinking notan--a notan of some kind or another--is
    especially relevant to some other things I typically like to mention: 1) it is
    important to the inhibition of slot processing according to letter (in the neurophysical
    receptive fields as salience provoked black and white information moves up through
    the layers of the visual cortex), 2) it is important to the perceptual learning
    that has to happen for reading to become fast and automatic.\r\n\r\nSo, relative
    to 1):\r\nNotan contributes to the prevention of 'response bias collapse'. This
    makes it functional and not soley aesthetic in it's importance;\r\nRelative to
    2): I've claimed on other contexts here on typophile that perceptual processing
    has to be pushed down to a more primitive level than that of whole letters for
    reading to become fast and automatic. It has to be pushed down to the stems, bowls,
    counters, inter-letter shapes level and to the features of these components, like
    closure and 'disturbed expressedness' in order to code for itself the pattern
    of blacks and whites, or features, that make up the word or exist inside the bounded
    map. Good notan at the level of the word encourages this sub-attentive 'digging
    deeper' of the perceptual system to the pattern of the salient whites, disturbances
    to strict rhythmic expression in the black, and features, to form more efficient
    feature-level encodings of the whole word object than slot processing at a letter
    level can offer. \r\n\r\n\"...why you doubt that you can work on an instance of
    notan by drawing...\" [Eben]\r\n\r\nI don't! \r\n\r\n(Go back to the very first
    post where I jumped in, (and include the 'process'-oriented glosses that I was
    forced to make later, but that were implicit in my start).) See my \"not until...\"-type
    clauses.\r\n\r\n\"... shapes per se cannot be black. They can only be Notan...
    [Eben]\r\n\r\n\"A letter is two shapes, one light, one dark.\" [Gerrit Noordzij]\r\n[me]
    They can be in a state of dark / light balance (notan) but there are still two
    shapes. In a word or bounded map, many shapes some light, some dark, become one
    thing for vision. The thing has an object-like integrity and is resistent to 'componential
    abstraction'. This last sentence is my construction of what you might be saying
    when you say: \"They can only be notan\""
  created: '2006-11-04 13:52:02'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "They can be in a state of dark / light balance (notan) [me]\r\n\r\nBetter
    [accommodating Eben's thing about superlatives, and my asking <wm>what</em> notan
    does the body need]:\r\nThe 'dark / light of it' [the notan] is a readable condition,
    but...\r\n\r\nLet me add:\r\nWhat looks to me like an insistence on the pre-eminence
    of notan over issues of proper salience and independant cue value in Hrant's posts,
    is probably a reflection of 1) the role he sees for parafoveal vision in his understanding
    of what happens in immersive reading and 2) a different--thogh maybe only tacit--concept
    of how words are encoded. I see the complimentarity of parafoveal vision and foveal
    vision in immersive reading quite differently than Hrant does."
  created: '2006-11-04 14:46:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What I see as fuzzy is the difference between reading letterforms (and groups
    of them) and designing them.  In reading, if a letterform is presented in a good
    notanic state, the reader may implicitly \"know\" it by virtue of its ease in
    being read. He \"recognizes\" it but may not know or care why--he just goes merrily
    along. While designing glyphs and groupings (to form a typeface), the designer
    may \"know\" a good instance of notan but is extremely unlikely to achieve it
    at first crack. To achieve it, he/she moves the boundary between positive and
    negative shapes by whatever means available until they \"recognize\" the balanced
    state as achieved. Type with good notan has been achieved prior to the bezier
    digital tools used today.  Most readability studies were done using pre-digital
    type. The designer may have been skilled in the use of any given tool to a point
    far above what we may perceive today.  Their tools were an extension of their
    vision.  The limitations of their tools were overcome by their skill and vision
    just as we overcome the limitations of bezier curves today. It is far easier to
    envision regular geometric forms and come to agreement on their rendering because
    they have strict mathematical description.  The nuances of typeface letterforms
    are not mathematically describable until after they are drawn, therefore, the
    designer is put in the state of flux to determine where the border should be.
    \ The reader only needs to see it.  If it is not there, reading is inhibited but
    the reader has no control over it.  The designer seeks to control the many form
    variables to achieve this balance for the reader but while he/she is working,
    it remains fuzzy, in a state of flux until all are resolved.  To this end, I cannot
    see how a designer can achieve notan without iterations of failure, near failure,
    near resolution, and resolution. Whatever tool we choose to affect the iterations
    may or may not work well. It depends on our mastery of the tool and overcoming
    its shortcomings much more than the tool.  That is not to say that we do not abandon
    a tool once we have found a better one. Just like construction workers have all
    but abandoned hand tools for power tools, type designers will move to the next
    tool after bezier drawing when it makes itself known. People are very adaptable,
    they use a tool and figure out ways to make it go beyond the tools ability. Later,
    a new tool is invented and the process of adaptation continues.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-04 15:59:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">So what Hrant is saying is that the cue is in the notan not the black shape.
    Hrant, if I am putting words in your mouth that you don\u2019t agree with feel
    free to say so ( obviously ). Still, if Notan is seen as only a \u2018balance\u2019
    of B&W and aesthetic in value rather than a basic state of reality I can well
    imagine how a cue might be seen as separate from Notan.\r\n\r\nEben, I like your
    formulation here, that 'the cue is in the notan not the black shape.' I wonder
    if it is true. In other words, I wonder whether the brain registers the inner
    white circle in an O, and not just the black ring. The other option would be that
    getting the weight(s) and dimensions of the black ring right in relation to the
    inner white makes it easier for our perceptual apparatus to recognize the ring--but
    it would still be the black that would register for 'cues' as to letter and word
    shape.\r\n\r\nI definitely think good notan is not only an aesthetic matter, but
    also a readability one. Cyrus Highsmith wrote somewhere about the character 'becoming
    a part of the paper, rather than sitting on top of the paper' when the right shape
    is achieved. I think this is also what Frutiger means when he and others talk
    about 'activating the white'. I think of the character 'clicking' when it gets
    the balances right. \r\n\r\nJust two points on this. One is that there is a bad
    kind of 'activitating the white', which I noted in another thread. That is when
    the white oscillates, asserting itself as foreground, and then going to background
    in a cycle. This kind of dazzle may be good in a display face, but not in a text
    lower case. \r\n\r\nThe second point is that good balance of black and white in
    a typeface cannot only be judged on single characters. Getting things to 'click'
    as far as readability is not only getting an H to look good on its own, but also
    next to an O --and a lower case n, o. Here I don't know where notan ends and 'color'
    begins.   \r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2006-11-04 16:16:33'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Chris: marvelous post!\r\n\r\nBill: in my way of constructing reading, the
    internal features (mostly) of the bounded map--as mediating agents--are the cues
    to visual wordform resolution, the notanic whole is the unit of perception. The
    internal features relate to role architectural parts (the black) and role architecturally
    evoked forms (the white). My complaint about a parallel-letter recognition approach
    to word recognition was that it was \"too rigorously biased toward the black\"
    (the role architectural parts); \"too centered on the black\" (see my Typo#13
    contribution). When I say that both the black and the white (the evoked shapes)
    are information contributory to visual wordform resolution I imply \"the brain
    registers the inner white circle in an O, and not just the black ring.\" In the
    'o' the counter is the salient cue. \r\n\r\nThe whole is not the cue to the identity
    of the word, the white parts and the black parts together in their pattern provide
    them.\r\n\r\nOr do I need to say: the white parts and the black parts together
    in their pattern are the cue?"
  created: '2006-11-04 16:47:33'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I said: \"In the \u2018o\u2019 the counter is the salient cue.\" \r\n\r\nPerhpas
    not just the counter, but also the closure of the shape containing it.\r\n\r\nThe
    Cyrus Highsmith quote is a good one by the way (in the context of a perspective
    that says both the black and white are contributory to visual wordform resolution),
    and so are your two final points."
  created: '2006-11-04 17:43:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">in the context of a perspective that says both the black and white are contributory
    \r\n\r\nYes, I should have made clear that that is Highsmith's general approach.
    Here he is talking about Prensa, which was inspired by Dwiggins' work:\r\n\r\n\u2018Finally,
    I looked closely at [Dwiggins] work for a third time in regards to his approach
    to form and counterform. Since I was young, my approach to drawing has been based
    around negative space. I learnt it from my mother who is an artist. The lesson
    came one day when I was frustrated that my drawings of trees never really looked
    like trees. They just looked like a bunch of lines. I could not get a feel of
    the shape or structure of a tree. She taught me to draw the shapes between the
    branches instead of the branches themselves. When you do that, you quickly come
    a lot closer to actually drawing something resembles a tree. When I am drawing
    letters, I use the same approach. I am drawing the white shapes not the black
    strokes. So the relationship between the white shapes on the inside of the character
    and the outside of the character is something I am very interested in. I think
    Dwiggins had a similar interest so I studied his work from this point of view.\u2019"
  created: '2006-11-04 18:25:34'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I does not matter what the tool is, but you do have see before you can draw.\r\n\r\nJust
    as an aside... In the time it took for this thread to get to this point, I finished
    a new 16 font (8 weights with Italics) geometric sans OpenType font w/small caps
    and lots of other features.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2006-11-04 19:01:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You are  a really fast dude!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-04 19:47:31'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "I think this[*] sums it up pretty well.\r\n\r\n(And learning to seeing does
    not happen by staring at previous models, but involves producing something --
    practicing typography, writing, drawing ... At the same time it prevents one from
    merely copying other people's 'hand'. Whether, later, one actually writes or draws
    letters by hand or not is not that important.)\r\n\r\n[* Edit: I don't mean Mr
    Lozos' post but the one before. :)]\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-04 19:48:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You know guys, James has a point: engaging in this thread is a lot of work
    for no money. On the other hand, progress has never been marked through repetition...\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nChris,
    the bezier curve is one tool in the <cite>method</cite> of drawing. And when you
    say about painting that \"it may take it many iterations\" it seems you're not
    making the leap to abstraction necessary in what I for one am trying to discuss.\r\n\r\nMore
    on bezier drawing:\r\n1) Its limitations are not those of drawing in general.\r\n2)
    You don't have to draw in beziers directly to be drawing, and if you use beziers
    to trace a drawn-by-hand outline it's easy enough to place enough points to avoid
    what you're talking about.\r\n3) Most significantly: the limitation you speak
    of does not favor the black or the white, hence is not unfair to notan.\r\n\r\n>
    I don\u2019t see why you think one tool must be superior to the other.\r\n\r\nIt's
    not a matter of superiority, it's a matter of sense versus prejudice. Using a
    tool/method that limits your end result in an arbitrary way is simply a Bad Thing.
    That doesn't mean you should never do it, but it does mean you should start by
    admitting its flaw. Just like my consumption of lard.\r\n\r\n> How can it be that
    ... a painter of a glyph cannot envision\r\n> the finnished Notan he intends all
    the way from from the\r\n> glyph itself to it\u2019s context.\r\n\r\nHe can envision
    anything we wants, but when it comes to actually making the thing, the <cite>contorting</cite>
    of his painting is: unnatural; and less likely to actually happen.\r\n\r\n> what
    Hrant is saying is that the cue is in the notan not the black shape.\r\n\r\nClose.
    If Peter is right that we \"isolate\" cues, as opposed to deciphering bouma wholes*,
    then I would contend that a cue can be black or white. A cue, even though it must
    be formed by both black and white, can be said to be identified as a thing in
    one or the other half. Maybe.\r\n\r\n* When you think about it though, you could
    integrate the two views: a bouma is a unit of reading; it can be a whole word,
    a cluster of letters, an individual letter (think fovea/Larson) or maybe even
    a cue! Unless in fact a bouma is made up of cues.\r\n\r\n> perceptual processing
    has to be pushed down\r\n\r\nPossibly. But it certainly has to be pushed \"up\"
    [as well]: to the level of multi-letter boumas. And to me this would be more useful
    to more people, not just type designers.\r\n\r\n> The limitations of their tools
    were overcome by their skill and vision\r\n\r\nNo animal can overcome anything
    completely.\r\n\r\n> it remains fuzzy, in a state of flux until all are resolved.\r\n\r\nIt
    remains fuzzy, forever.\r\n\r\n> I cannot see how a designer can achieve notan
    without iterations\r\n> of failure, near failure, near resolution, and resolution.\r\n\r\nA
    designer always achieves a notan. But a designer <cite>never</cite> achieves ideal
    notan. That is why Modernism is inhuman.\r\n\r\n> It depends on our mastery of
    the tool and overcoming\r\n> its shortcomings much more than the tool.\r\n\r\nIt
    depends on the mastery of the tool/method, overcoming its shortcomings AND the
    tool itself. The latter matters, and that needs to be admitted explicitly, please.
    \r\n\r\n> type designers will move to the next tool after bezier drawing \r\n\r\nThink
    about the nature of the <cite>method</cite> (ie drawing vs painting) first.\r\n\r\n>
    I don\u2019t know where notan ends and \u2018color\u2019 begins.\r\n\r\nNotan
    doesn't end.\r\nColor is an attribute of notan.\r\n\r\n> Cyrus Highsmith wrote
    somewhere about the character \u2018becoming a\r\n> part of the paper, rather
    than sitting on top of the paper\u2019 when\r\n> the right shape is achieved.\r\n\r\nTellingly,
    Legato is what does this best (so far).\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/29064\r\n\r\nConcerning
    Dwiggins: it's ironic however that his amazing results came directly from his
    instincts, not his conscious understanding - which was quite laughable. For example
    he thought that extenders only have an aesthetic value. He was a genius, caged
    by the machinations of industry.\r\n\r\n> \"the relationship between the white
    shapes on the inside of\r\n> the character and the outside of the character is
    something\r\n> I am very interested in.\"\r\n\r\nThe tricky thing -and something
    I don't think anybody has done yet, although Bloemsma was headed that way I suspect-
    is to design for the relationship between the white shapes on the inside of a
    character and the outsides (and insides too!) of <cite>all</cite> the potential
    characters, ideally weighted according to frequency. This non-determinism is what
    we have to address if we really want to leverage notan.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-05 05:42:01'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"...a bouma is a unit of reading; it can be a whole word, a cluster of letters,
    an individual letter [...] or maybe even a cue! Unless in fact a bouma is made
    up of cues.\" [Hrant]\r\n\r\nIn my way of constructing it, the <em>word</em> is
    the unit of reading in western scripts. The bouma is a unit of perceptual processing.
    The bouma <em>is</em> a bounded map of cues, which in their pattern cue the identity
    of the word or word part. Cues are mediating agents to the resolution of the whole.
    The are not isolated. \r\n\r\n\"Using a tool/method that limits your end result
    in an arbitrary way is simply a Bad Thing.\" [Hrant]\r\n\r\nUsing a tool or method
    that goes to determining your end result in a productive way is necessarily a
    good thing. (What I have in mind with 'productive' is: productive in terms of
    'what the body needs\") The broad nibbed pen or swept object metaphor does that.
    It does that precisely because it has a dimension perpendicular to it's path.
    There is nothing wrong with stepping outide the western tool of writing to--at
    least as, or even more--effectively accomodate those needs within a different
    medium. Type-making has always done this. There is nothing intrinsically superior
    in your or someone else's method. The breaking of ductal logic, rather than solely
    it's augmentation is a good thing to explore. This I will admit."
  created: '2006-11-05 14:24:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> In my way of constructing it the word is the unit of reading in\r\n> western
    scripts. The bouma is a unit of perceptual processing.\r\n\r\nSure. Note my \"a\".\r\n\r\n>
    Using a tool or method that goes to determining your end\r\n> result in a productive
    way is necessarily a good thing.\r\n\r\nSure. But painting is not \"productive\".\r\n\r\n>
    There is nothing intrinsically superior in your or someone else\u2019s method.\r\n\r\nThen
    I'm glad you're not the contractor who built my house.\r\nYou might have hired
    Chinese acrobats to do the job.\r\n\r\nDuctal logic (or anything arbitrary, like
    avian intercourse) is only useful to the extent that it might provide \"dumb luck\"
    inspiration (like stroke contrast), nothing more. If you take it further than
    that (for example in thinking that the left diagonal of the \"A\" needs to be
    \"naturally\" thinner than the right one) then you're moving away from Design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-05 15:40:17'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: I'll leave it with what I've said.
  created: '2006-11-05 16:40:44'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Likewise - for now. Thanks for explaining your points of view!\r\n\r\n-e."
  created: '2006-11-05 17:32:05'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[re: arbitrary / dumb luck ]\r\n\r\nA few additional things occur to me.\r\n\r\nThe
    use of 'arbitrary' (in reference to the constraints of the pre-eminent western
    tool of writing) and 'dumb luck' (in reference to how it achieved the efficacies
    of what it put in place) is a great rhetorical manouver but insufficient and unproductive
    as a stance.\r\n\r\nI would rather say the availability of the western tool of
    writing is dumb luck, and it's constraints <strong>arbitrary or circumstantial
    <em>from the point of view of formgiving in a punch-cutting or digital environment</em></strong>,
    but <strong>relevant from the point of view of 'what the body needs' (in perceptual
    processing to sustain effortless immersive reading), and as a referential axis</strong>.
    I mean 'arbitrary' here as 'non-intrinsic' from the point of view of form-giving
    in current digital technologies and the older punch-cutting / matrix-making technologies.\r\n\r\nHrant,
    my fear is that as a stance <em>your</em> claims about 'arbitrary' and 'dumb luck'
    become coercive and undermining, not empowering and productive. I can see they
    might become paralysis and guilt-inducing. I doubt that that's your intent.\r\n\r\nBeing
    ever more explicit and specific about the point of greater bouma divergence (i.e.,
    to introduce a kind of beneficial overdetermination at the cueing level) and being
    explicit and specific about the point of notan (i.e., in inhibiting 'response
    bias collapse' / 'componential abstraction' / 'slot processing') and relevant
    kinds of notan--and then ranking them within a co-ordinate system among other
    things as part of a larger system of relevant 'refererntial axis' for channeling
    action or gauging practice--might be more empowering. Relevant things can exert
    countervailing pressures, and this might be the reason to break ductal logic.
    For example a discovery that an oppositional dynamic play between the interletter
    and the intraletter whites can enhance the perceptual integrity of the over-arching
    whole (the bouma of the word), could force one to break ductal logic in the way
    Bloemsma did with Legato.\r\n\r\nSorry about the bold: they are my alternative
    to your use of caps. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-11-06 15:02:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> relevant from the point of view of \u2018what the body needs\u2019\r\n\r\nHow
    do you know this?\r\nAnd I thought you believed in white cues.\r\n\r\n> not empowering
    and productive.\r\n\r\nThat comes <cite>after</cite> the blinders come off.\r\n\r\n>
    For example a discovery that an oppositional dynamic play\r\n> between the interletter
    and the intraletter whites can enhance\r\n> the perceptual integrity of the over-arching
    whole (the bouma\r\n> of the word), could force one to break ductal logic in the
    way\r\n> Bloemsma did with Legato.\r\n\r\nWhy would one/Bloemsma have to \"discover\"
    something (presumably by... dumb luck?) that leads to the realization that ductal
    logic needs to be broken, as opposed to the more deliberate (intelligent, wise)
    process of first realizing that ductal logic needs to be broken, and then looking
    for alternatives? Bloemsma for one was anti-chiro for years before \"discovering\"
    the idea behind Legato.\r\n\r\nBut as far as epiphanies go, yes, let's please
    pay attention to those too:\r\nlike maybe the one that suggests that a symmetrical
    \"A\" works better.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW, one thing -and a central one- that I
    usually mention in such discusisons but had failed to here is an explicit/geometric(?)
    reason why painting introduces an arbitrary constraint: it ties the two edges
    of the black in a relationship (think moving front) superior to the relationship
    across the edge between the black and the white (notan).\r\n\r\nOf course this
    isn't even remotely close what seems to be\r\nrequired to convince some people:
    divine intervention.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-06 17:32:47'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[How do you know this?]\r\n\r\nIn two ways:\r\n1) I intuit it from my study
    of how retinal and neural receptive fileds are structured, and how receptor cells
    respond to reflected light;\r\n2) I intuit it from the observation that every
    widely successful and enduring, non-marginal script ([??]with a robust tradition
    of immersive, silent reading[??]) has--and has evolved through--a fluctuating
    contrast derived from a tool.\r\n\r\nI wonder if you want to try to make me says
    that: because something is relevant, it is also has to function as the boundary
    condition, limiting where we could fruitfully go or explore?\r\n\r\n\r\n[And I
    thought you believed in white cues.]\r\n\r\nThe kind and variability of the white
    the dimensional tool sets up is also relevant from the point of view of what the
    body needs."
  created: '2006-11-06 18:23:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Your #1: Maybe. Wondering: what about emitted light?\r\n\r\nYour #2: Pure
    circumstance. Lamarckian illogic. Not to mention the exception of Hangul, which
    just happens to also be the most powerful, intelligent, and <cite>what the body
    needs</cite> script on the planet.\r\n\r\n> I wonder if you want to try to make
    me says that: because something\r\n> is relevant, it is also has to function as
    the boundary condition,\r\n> limiting where we could fruitfully go or explore?\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure I follow you. If you mean that [I think] painting limits our exploration
    (and even discourages the direct application of sound ideas) then yes - this is
    what an arbitrary thing does.\r\n\r\n> The kind and variability of the white the\r\n>
    dimensional tool sets up is also relevant from\r\n> the point of view of what
    the body needs.\r\n\r\nNot as relevant as its setup of the black, hence imbalanced.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-06 18:45:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Getting back to James Montalbano's post.  How do we take our 6 month discussion
    and pose it in such a way as to make it helpful to a type designer? We have had
    much debate on semantics but precious little  to take to a practical level.  Was
    this just an acedemic excersize like Thomas Aquinas debating the existance of
    God with Nietze? Is there someting visual anyone can show which demonstrates the
    concept and makes it applicable?  I hope we have not been just debating a term
    like \"Farfiknugan\" from the old 1980s VW ads?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-06 18:52:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What's precious little about trying to tell people to physically draw outlines
    instead of bothering with things like testing forms with calligraphy or fleshing
    out forms with diagonal hashes? What's impractical about trying to tell people
    to give the whites equal importance to the blacks? Yes, some people do claim to
    do the latter, but it seems that the most that's being done is looking and pretending,
    not doing.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, if James's point is how to make more money
    faster with more ideal type design, that's of course going nowhere fast. It's
    not progress towards an ideal that sells, it's celebration of the established.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-06 19:02:03'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Lamarckian illogic]\r\n\r\nActually: Darwinian."
  created: '2006-11-06 19:11:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't think that was James's point at all. I think it was his way of saying
    do something with your time (like design a font) which shows the superiority of
    your theory and your theory will have a more objective base. \r\nDecent type designers
    have been giving equal importance to both blacks and whites for centuries.  This
    is not new. There will always be those who harken back to the \"good old days\"
    and thrive on older ways of seeing.  There will always be those who damn and condem
    the old ways as pathetic intrusions on their own way of doing things. Others will
    do what they will no matter what.  Just as you will continue to work your way
    no matter what those who don't support your theories might do or say. The point
    is, what comes out at the end? Is it type or just rhetoric? If it is more important
    for you tothinkof yourself as the person who redefined the asian word notan as
    a typographic term than it is for you to make type with good notan, then so be
    it. I have no problem with that. I would rather design something and am not so
    concerned with the terms people might use to describe it--but that is me.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-06 19:19:58'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant, let me be clear about one thing: while I contest large chunks of your
    logic, labels and your construction of oppositions, this doesn't mean I don't
    see great value, real validity, and have a vital interest in your underlying motivations,
    your observations, and your explorations especially where they go against the
    grain of ductal logic, because that indeed is where the future of path-breaking
    typographic exploration lies. But, what the history of writing has to teach us
    is more than ductal logic.\r\n\r\nIf you need your logic to sustain it, go for
    it. But I'll use mine to contextualize yours and decide for myself the meaning
    that I think it has."
  created: '2006-11-06 20:37:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I think it was his way of saying do something with your time\r\n> (like
    design a font) which shows the superiority of your theory\r\n\r\nNo, I think he
    was saying \"don't theorize so much\". It's a common sentiment among financially
    successful font makers. We should get a clue, eh? But we don't, and that's that.
    Lucky for culture.\r\n\r\n> Decent type designers have been giving equal\r\n>
    importance to both blacks and whites for centuries.\r\n\r\nBalloney.\r\n\r\n>
    Is it type or just rhetoric?\r\n\r\nI didn't realize there are no other options...\r\n\r\n>
    I would rather design something\r\n\r\nThat's great. I would rather design something
    too, but I'd really like it to be significant to more than my pocketbook and/or
    ego, and I'm not going to have that until I start marching somberly in the right
    direction, instead of dancing in place with a stupid smile on my face. Yes, we
    are each different, and you have to make yourself happy - go for it, and more
    power to you. But the flip side is that then the most you should do is what James
    did, instead of spending hours insisting that painting is just as good as drawing
    in addressing text-face notan.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nPeter, thanks. And likewise.\r\n\r\n>
    what the history of writing has to teach us is more than ductal logic.\r\n\r\nAgreed.
    In fact I have heard stone carvers complain about the dominance of calligraphy
    in type. Like look at the amazing \"M\" in this image:\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/typeoff/282096361\r\n\r\n>
    I\u2019ll use mine to contextualize yours and decide\r\n> for myself the meaning
    that I think it has.\r\n\r\nNatch.\r\nI might be a preacher, but I'm no go-to-Afghanistan
    evangelist.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-06 20:50:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...and I\u2019m not going to have that until I start marching somberly
    in the right direction...\"\r\n\r\nYou may never start marching at all though.
    \ You might try doing something in a type design that fits your theory as it stands
    now and see what you can learn from it--better yet, to see what you can teach
    from it. If your purpose is evangalism, a few good examples go a long way. I hope
    it is just not a sense of perfectionism which holds you back, waiting for just
    the right moment (which never comes).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-06 21:04:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, that's a good point (although I don't think my problem is perfectionism).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-06 21:11:24'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[me] \"... what the history of writing has to teach us is more than ductal
    logic...\"\r\n\r\n[you] \"Agreed. In fact I have heard stone carvers complain...\"\r\n\r\nOK,
    but I had in mind: \"even the history of writing with the broad-nibbed pen\"."
  created: '2006-11-06 21:11:39'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Chris, you asked [several posts ago]: \"How do we take our 6 month discussion
    and pose it in such a way as to make it helpful to a type designer? We have had
    much debate on semantics but precious little to take to a practical level. Was
    this just an acedemic excersize...?\"\r\n\r\nTo say it again, from my excursions
    into the literature on perceptual processing in reading through the eyes of a
    worker-in-type, I can tell you what's important, what to be mindful of, and (perhaps)
    why; or why--in perceptual processing terms--\"strategic construction, a well-motivated
    contrast scheme, and \"space craft\" still matter,\" but I cannot tell you what
    to do mechanically, how big to make this or that. I cannot tell you how to get
    there. \r\n\r\nThat is, I can give you (new) perceptual-processing touch-stones
    for type design and typography. I can give you a coordinated repertoire of new
    <em>terminological</em> or <em>referential axes</em> according to which, or with
    which, <em>you</em> can channel your actions and gauge your practices. As a non
    type-designer, but a typotect and nomad scholar, that's all I am able to supply."
  created: '2006-11-07 14:42:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Peter, I'll take whatever I can get to help me keep an open mind :-)\r\nAs
    always, we appreciate your input.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-07 16:26:29'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Regarding the theory vs. applicability question: I don't think that any of
    this discussion should be held up to some kind of arbitrary usefulness standard.
    How can anyone know if a conversation will be useful ahead of time? Also, if people
    want to read or contribute they can. Clearly those folks who are reading this,
    or writing in, hope that they may get something out of it. Probably you get as
    much as you put in or something similar. In other words - nobody is here to spoon
    feed you on this topic - yet. \r\n\r\nPersonally, I feel that I have been helped
    by the thread. And I like having a more fine grained understanding of what everybody
    is thinking. Over time I hope to make some examples that relate to these ideas
    available in a structured form - and I hope other people will contribute theirs
    too. But before I can start my project I need threads like this to help me structure
    my effort. Maybe when the project is underway the spoon feeding will begin. :-)"
  created: '2006-11-07 17:33:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...held up to some kind of arbitrary usefulness standard\"\r\n\r\nThat
    is not at all what I said. With any theory, it is fair game to project the shadow
    of operability.  If we dare not ask about it, it will never be considered. People
    do not have to stop theoretical thinking just because someone asks them to consider
    what direction usability might take from their discussion. It is quite possible
    that attempts to make use of a theory, even before it is totally resolved, can
    aid in furthering the theory or at least giving it new avenues to research. There
    is a great deal to be learnedfrom just trying things and failing--perhaps even
    more than succeeeding.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-07 18:43:13'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "\" That is not at all what I said. \"\r\n\r\nI agree. Sorry if it seemed
    otherwise. Writing about an 'arbitrary measure' was a rhetorical flourish not
    an attempt at forcing words in your ( or anyone's) mouth. \r\n\r\nI also agree
    that for the maker of fonts this kind of chatter is probably not all that immediately
    useful or applicable - yet. Unless, they are not yet designing with a Notan-centric
    point of view. "
  created: '2006-11-07 22:06:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Not that they have to call it 'Notan' to be doing it .
  created: '2006-11-07 22:07:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"not yet designing with a Notan-centric point of view\"\r\n\r\nWhat if they
    don't even attend to any philisophical point of view yet their type comes out
    with good notan anyway?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-07 22:25:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Unless, they are not yet designing with a Notan-centric point of view.\r\n\r\nWhich
    is virtually everybody.\r\nSo yes, threads like this can be useful to many people,
    but <cite>only if they let it.</cite>\r\n\r\n> What if they don\u2019t even attend
    to any philisophical point\r\n> of view yet their type comes out with good notan
    anyway?\r\n\r\n1) We're not talking about good notan (that's a non-starter) we're
    talking\r\nabout ideal notan. (Note: ideal is not at all the same thing as perfect.)\r\n2)
    Luck is great. Just don't bet your house, or your culture, on it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-07 22:35:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Can you show an example of ideal notan in a typeface?  or anything close?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-07 22:43:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "By definition you can't show an ideal.\r\nBut you can show a person aiming
    for one (not <cite>it</cite>), and that would be Legato.\r\nPlease read my short
    review here: http://typographi.com/000969.php\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-07 22:46:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just had a memory refresh, so back to some things from before:\r\n\r\n> \u201Ceven
    the history of writing with the broad-nibbed pen\u201D.\r\n\r\nI don't see how
    writing can go against writing.\r\n\r\nMore on Evert/Legato:\r\nIn fact Evert
    seems to have explicitly \"broken\" ductal logic, by consciously disposing of
    the linking between the outsides and insides (so to speak) of the black (AKA the
    moving front). It was not a \"discovery\", but a planned -if speculative- excavation,
    in an area some people were telling him not to bother digging. In fact these people
    don't like digging in general - they prefer low-hanging fruit.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-07 22:52:51'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "When Chris said \"What if they don\u2019t even attend to any philisophical
    point of view yet their type comes out with good notan anyway?\" I think he was
    getting at the point that it is possible without-theory or vocabulary to make
    things which measure up pretty damn well from a Notanic point of view. But the
    obvious rejoineder is that eventaully they will probably notice what happening
    & start wondering what it might mean, how to take it further, etc. That's where
    the ideal could come in. Still, I think there is value in looking for & commenting
    on typefaces or even glyph pairs where we feel there is above average to excellent
    sensitivity to Notan. So : examples anyone? Actually that aught be a new thread!"
  created: '2006-11-07 23:29:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it is possible without-theory or vocabulary to make things which\r\n> measure
    up pretty damn well from a Notanic point of view.\r\n\r\nIndeed - like Dwiggins.\r\n\r\n>
    examples anyone?\r\n\r\nYou should definitely start a new thread [instead].\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-07 23:36:06'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thread started! Post your examples today!\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/29362"
  created: '2006-11-08 00:27:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...without-theory or vocabulary to make things which measure up pretty
    damn well from a Notanic point of view. But the obvious rejoineder is that eventaully
    they will probably notice what happening & start wondering what it might mean\"\r\n\r\n\r\nEXACTLY!!!\r\n\r\nGeneral
    to specific vs. specific to general\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-08 01:40:26'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "One of the things that came up here was \"the notan the body needs\". \r\n\r\nIn
    the process of writing up a post to the Rule or Law thread, I came to think the
    following might apply: the white needs to have a proper salience and criterial
    components of the black, distinctive cue value.\r\n\r\n<em>Proper</em> here means:
    so that the pattern of the whites inside the bounded map is well-defined and assertive;
    <em>criterial</em> means criterial in relation to their place in visual wordform
    resolution, not just letter identification. (I read recently in some papers on
    \u2018crowding\u2019 that reading operates on not one but two spatial frequency
    registers.)"
  created: '2007-09-25 00:10:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sounds good, Peter.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-25 01:33:11'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: '[[http://dpc.uba.uva.nl/cgi/i/image/image-idx?view=entry;subview=detail;c=ubinvimg;cc=ubinvimg;entryid=x-UBAHSXXXVD20;lang=nl;sid=66e94ec1ebfe4fe03ca308a755e44bee|Nothing
    beats drawing type by hand]] ;) (use the drop-down next to "andere weergave" for
    the rest of the family, and the controls in the bottom to zoom and such).'
  created: '2008-11-12 01:44:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks for the link Jelmar. Totally fabulous. '
  created: '2008-11-12 01:54:26'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "No prob. I agree, totally fabulous. Especially with the comments in the margins
    and all (directed to Peter Matthias Noordzij). \r\n\r\n[[http://dpc.uba.uva.nl/cgi/f/findaid/findaid-idx?c=bc;cc=bc;view=reslist;subview=standard;lang=nl;didno=ubainv57;sid=63b8eda54557d7b13dbe83039c0edf2d;byte=892287;focusrgn=beforedsc|Here
    is a link to the main page of the collection]] (Amsterdam University \"special
    collections\" archive), although the gallery I linked to are the only images online.
    It's in Dutch, so that's a pity for the English speakers here. ;) Basically it
    tells the history of the material and some other background info."
  created: '2008-11-12 02:10:21'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Thanks to whoever brought this old thread back!\r\n\r\n<cite> I think newer
    designers get too precious, careful, conservative and restained as soon as they
    get in front of a screen. Why? I have no idea. But I think they do.\r\nOn the
    other hand when you give somebody a chalk & chalkboard, pen & napkin; or a crappy
    sheet of paper and a pencil - the very informality implied by the materials opens
    them up to a comfortable, playful and freer kind of expression. 99 times out of
    100 that rough crappy drawing isn\u2019t a product in itself afterwards. But it
    is a byproduct of something more precious - exploration, learning, and sometime
    invention. Which can then be applied in a variety of ways and using a variety
    of tools. </cite>\r\nAmazing, Eben, and you wrote it two years ago\u2026 Thanks!\r\n\r\n<cite>
    Leaving the psychology of it out of the equation it still remains that most digital
    tools are not made with rough idea exploration in mind. </cite>\r\nYes, yes, yes!
    While I agree an awful deal with Nick (Drawing is *in the mind*), it's at the
    same time, for most ideas, a million times difficult to refine things with vector
    tools, instead of a physical tool. I recall Jon Barnbrook wrote a review of the
    software FontStudio, many years ago, and he underlined how still unfriendly were
    these digital tools for the fine-tuning of forms (or should we say \"inking\"?).\r\nOf
    course there are tablets, but the result seems different to me.\r\nAnd it seems
    to me we're witnessing a plethora of almost identical typefaces coming out from
    \"mere computer environments\"\u2026 \r\n\r\nThanks to all\u2026"
  created: '2008-11-15 22:21:01'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Thanks to whoever brought this old thread back!\r\n\r\n<cite> I think newer
    designers get too precious, careful, conservative and restained as soon as they
    get in front of a screen. Why? I have no idea. But I think they do.\r\nOn the
    other hand when you give somebody a chalk & chalkboard, pen & napkin; or a crappy
    sheet of paper and a pencil - the very informality implied by the materials opens
    them up to a comfortable, playful and freer kind of expression. 99 times out of
    100 that rough crappy drawing isn\u2019t a product in itself afterwards. But it
    is a byproduct of something more precious - exploration, learning, and sometime
    invention. Which can then be applied in a variety of ways and using a variety
    of tools. </cite>\r\nAmazing, Eben, and you wrote it two years ago\u2026 Thanks!\r\n\r\n<cite>
    Leaving the psychology of it out of the equation it still remains that most digital
    tools are not made with rough idea exploration in mind. </cite>\r\nYes, yes, yes!
    While I agree an awful deal with Nick (Drawing is *in the mind*), it's at the
    same time, for most ideas, a million times difficult to refine things with vector
    tools, instead of a physical tool. I recall Jon Barnbrook wrote a review of the
    software FontStudio, many years ago, and he underlined how still unfriendly were
    these digital tools for the fine-tuning of forms (or should we say \"inking\"?).\r\nOf
    course there are tablets, but the result seems different to me.\r\nAnd it seems
    to me we're witnessing a plethora of almost identical typefaces coming out from
    \"mere computer environments\"\u2026 \r\n\r\nThanks to all\u2026"
  created: '2008-11-15 22:21:02'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<cite>Thanks to whoever brought this old thread back!</cite>\r\n\r\nSo that's
    finally a plus point for the spammers!\r\n\r\n(In case the post gets deleted --
    this thread was resurrected from the archives because someone thinks this is a
    great way to attract attention to his product. THINK AGAIN, DUDE.)"
  created: '2008-11-15 22:43:33'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Oh, I didn't even see it was brought back. Thought it was an interesting read,
    so I didn't look at the dates when I replied earlier.
  created: '2008-11-15 23:34:58'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "No worries -- the capitals were not to shout at you, Jelmar.\r\n\r\nWhat
    is it that people take the trouble to create a login, just to post spam? I heard
    \"spamming works, because 1 in 100 people respond to it\". If one of you typophiles
    <strong>is</strong> that person, can't you go and **** ***?\r\n\r\n(The asterisks
    are mine. Don't wanna offend anyone, or something.)\r\n\r\n((Is it just me, or
    is this entire thread in italics?))"
  created: '2008-11-15 23:47:51'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: It's you. I don't see italics. ;)
  created: '2008-11-16 00:17:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \u201Cspamming works, because 1 in 100 people respond to it\u201D\r\n\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/technology/7719281.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-16 01:52:25'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Interesting read! From that article:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"The profit margin for
    spam may be meager enough that spammers must be sensitive to the details of how
    their campaigns are run and are economically susceptible to new defenses.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    explains the sudden interest in spamming here, they are desperately seeking new
    ways to push their thrash.\r\n\r\nMaybe they'll give up if they realize their
    precious one in a 2 million hit didn't come from this site."
  created: '2008-11-16 23:57:39'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Hopefully. :=)\r\n\r\nBack to the \"hand\" issue: a silly article I did on
    the topic for Max Kisman (& FontShop) in the far year 2002:\r\nhttp://www.hollandfonts.com/tribe/tribe02/0007/000704.html\r\n\r\nIf
    you forgive the naiveness, it still includes some interesting data\u2026"
  created: '2008-11-17 16:42:37'
date: '2006-07-03 05:19:10'
node_type: forum
title: How do you develop hand lettering aesthetics?

---
