---
author:
  name: dezcom
  picture: 109959
body: "Here are a couple of words that push the envelope of hyphenation :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/longwords_3992.png]"
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here they are as text:\r\nEierschalensollbruchstellenverursacher\r\nStaatsangeh\xF6rigkeitsangelegenheiten\r\n\r\nI
    am sure many of you can come up with other H&J teasers.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-04 21:07:29'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "A nice Finnish word to keep you going:\r\nlentokonesuihkuturbiinimoottoriapumekaanikkoaliupseerioppilas\r\nunfortunately
    it doesn't have any of our umlauts, like this charming word: t\xF6\xF6l\xF6l\xE4inen"
  created: '2006-07-04 21:09:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Those are great! and they have just a few vowels--unlike the Czech words
    which could borrow some of your for sure :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-04 21:13:09'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "I even had a project / platform named 'Eierschalensollbruchstellenverursacher',
    together with a few friends, several years ago. :)\r\n\r\n<em>( It mainly was
    a 'Designers Playground'. Sadly enough, the site itself is no longer alive. I
    think we even had the domain eierschalensollbruchstellenverursacher.com, for a
    year or so, back then. Aaargh, My memory. Its available again, by the way. :)</em>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.dav.name\" target=\"_blank\">Dav</a>"
  created: '2006-07-04 21:20:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Dave,\r\nI guess you could have made a font with now word spaces forthat
    site since none were needed :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-04 21:27:47'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PICT9786_1_6437.jpg]\r\n\r\nWhy yes,
    that <em>is</em> Action Jackson!\r\n\r\nForza Italia!\r\n\r\nIf I remember correctly,
    there was a word in a Finnish \u2013 German dictionary that went something like
    this: phonecallselectioncancellationpreventionbutton. A word.\r\n\r\nAnd if I\u2019m
    not totally mistaken the long word posted by Mili is in fact in use in the military."
  created: '2006-07-04 22:40:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The Finns win by a long shot!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-04 22:46:44'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: To clear things out, it was a German word. ; )
  created: '2006-07-04 22:48:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Good for spelling contests!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-04 22:52:04'
- author:
    name: tina
    picture: 109693
  body: "phonecallselectioncancellationpreventionbutton would be translated as Anrufauswahlabbruchsvermeidungsknopf.
    Or what about the old classic <a href=\"http://www.answers.com/topic/donaudampfschiffahrtselektrizit-tenhauptbetriebswerkbauunterbeamtengesellschaft\">Donaudampfschifffahrtsgesellschaft</a>?
    ;o)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-04 23:53:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It sounds like the addawordadinfinitum syndrome :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-05 01:40:50'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Mili, is that the Finnish title for Tom Cruise's movie "Top Gun" ?
  created: '2006-07-05 08:16:33'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Nearly, it's a rank in the Finnish air force, as Grot Esqu\xE9 already mentioned
    ;-).\r\n\r\nIn both German and Finnish one can make long words by just adding
    them together. Of course, ther should be some sense and logic in it. \r\n\r\nOne
    famous palindrom in Finnish is the soap salesman: saippuakauppias, but that's
    a shorty."
  created: '2006-07-05 08:47:50'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Or "pannomattosuora" which means something like "the crazy woollen cloth of
    the nun" in Italian.
  created: '2006-07-05 10:23:38'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "And here\u2018s four (not as long, but anyway) in swedish =)\r\n\r\nacklimatiseringssv\xE5righeter\r\nf\xF6rtj\xE4nstutvecklingsgaranti\r\nkontrollstationsf\xF6rhandling\r\nrealisationsvinstbeskattning"
  created: '2006-07-05 10:38:02'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Sorry, Goran, I forgot about the Swedish word combining systems! Any other
    languages like that? Danish and Norwegian surely, perhaps Dutch?\r\n\r\nAlessandro,
    the \"pannomattosuora\" sounds like a Finnish word, although panno doesn't mean
    anything in Finnish (change it to \"pannu\", and it means kettle), but \"matto\"
    is a rug and \"suora\" is straight. "
  created: '2006-07-05 10:47:16'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "So \u201Cpanna matto suoraan\u201D would mean \u201Cto straighten the carpet\u201D.
    \u201CPannomattosuora\u201D sounds like some foreigner trying to speak Finnish."
  created: '2006-07-05 11:38:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\u201Cto straighten the carpet\u201D\r\n\r\nThat is a fine kettle of fish
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-05 13:07:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "antidissestablishmentarianism I believe is the longest English word but it
    is just childs play compared to the Finn and German example above. They say \"the
    Greeks had a word for it\" but the Finns have a gigantic word for it :-) And they
    say size doesn't matter :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-05 16:48:15'
- author:
    name: Toby Macklin
  body: "Only one s in the disestablish part of that word ... so the English winner
    by one letter is ...\r\n\r\nfloccinaucinihilipilification - setting little or
    no value on something\r\n\r\nAny advance?\r\n\r\nToby"
  created: '2006-07-05 17:21:52'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Don't forget the Welsh classic:\r\nLlanfairpwllgwyngyllgogerychwyrndrobwllllantysiliogogogoch\r\n\r\nhttp://teachingtreasures.com.au/student-projects/Llanfair.htm"
  created: '2006-07-05 18:12:20'
- author:
    name: typofoto
    picture: 109920
  body: "pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanoconiosis\r\n\r\nDefined by the Oxford
    English Dictionary as \"a factitious word alleged to mean 'a lung disease caused
    by the inhalation of very fine silica dust' but occurring chiefly as an instance
    of a very long word.\" \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-05 18:30:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Sorry Toby, this is longer: Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious (and you can
    also sing it).'
  created: '2006-07-05 18:36:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Chimney sweeps unite in song :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-05 19:03:42'
- author:
    name: Da Kine
    picture: 111014
  body: "Not as long, but looks good in print--- The offical state fish of Hawaii:\r\n\r\nhumuhumunukunukuapuaa\r\n\r\nDK~"
  created: '2006-07-05 23:29:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Another very vowel-friendly language :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-06 00:49:22'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "the only norwegian word with 9 vowels in a row:\r\n\"SAUE\xD8YEEIENDOMMELIGHETER\"\r\n\r\nmeans
    \"sheep's eye oddities'."
  created: '2006-07-06 11:35:52'
- author:
    name: fmiles
    picture: 111239
  body: "T\xF5\xF5\xF5\xF5\xF5\xF5bik.\r\n\r\nIt's Estonian and means \"Work-night
    nightingale\"."
  created: '2006-07-06 12:42:38'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Another possibility to find words is to search large texts for long words.
    http://www.gutenberg.org/ is a good source with texts in many languages. I thought
    Kant in German would be a good candidate for long words and came up with the following:\r\n\r\n<cite>Annehmungsw\xFCrdigkeit
    Anschauungsverm\xF6gens anthropomorphistisch aufeinanderfolgenden bewunderungsw\xFCrdigen
    Bewunderungsw\xFCrdiges Dynamischunbedingten Elementarwissenschaft empirischunbedingten
    empirischunbedingten Erfahrungserkenntnis Erfahrungserkenntnisse Erkenntnisprinzipien
    Erkl\xE4rungsbedingungen Fundamentalerscheinung Gelegenheitsursachen Gravitationsgesetzen
    Grundbeschaffenheiten Intellektualphilosoph Intellektualphilosophen mathematischunbedingte
    Naturmannigfaltigkeit Paragraphenabteilung Parlamentsadvokaten: physikotheologischen
    physischtheologische physischtheologischen schlechthinnotwendig schlechthinnotwendigen
    schlechthinnotwendiges Schlechthinunbedingte Schlechthinunbedingten Unbedingtnotwendigen
    unbedingtnotwendiges Undurchdringlichkeit Unterscheidungskraft Unterscheidungsmerkmal
    verabscheuungsw\xFCrdig Verbindungsverm\xF6gens Vergleichungsbegriffe Verh\xE4ltnisvorstellungen
    Vernunftbearbeitungen Vernunftbehauptungen Vernunfterkenntnisse Vernunfterkenntnisses
    Vernunftuntersuchung Vernunftwissenschaft Vernunftwissenschaften Verstandeserkenntnis
    Verstandeserkenntnisse Verstandeserkenntnisses Verstandesgrundsatze Verstandesgrunds\xE4tzen
    Verstandeshandlungen Verstandesverbindung Vorstellungsf\xE4higkeit Vorstellungsverm\xF6gen
    Zwischenempfindungen </cite>\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-07-06 13:54:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I would like to see Tim's text above set justified with hyphenation turned
    off :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-06 14:13:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What was the contest held many, many years ago which involved Vana White
    with Hawaiians, Estonians, and Norwegians, vs Czechs and Slovaks? Somehow I think
    the Czechs and Slovaks never wanted to buy a vowel from Vana so everyone else
    got them? [Maybe the game was later called \"Whll of MzFrchtzn\" by Central Europeans]
    :-)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-06 14:22:24'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: "I think this one is the longest:\r\nRindfleischetikettierungs\xFCberwachungsaufgaben\xFCbertragungsgesetz\r\n\r\nAnd
    this one is long and also often used:\r\nBet\xE4ubungsmittelverschreibungsverordnung\r\n\r\nin
    english it would be called:\r\nnarcoticprescriptionlaw\r\nor something like that!?!?
    \r\n\r\n: )"
  created: '2006-07-07 13:30:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "When I was working on the history of the theory of relativity, I had to read
    about the velocity of light in three languages. This phrase really give the feel
    of the three languages. French: velocit\xE9 de la lumiere. German: lichtfortpflanzungsgeschwindigkeit.\r\n\r\nEnglish:
    shortest. French: prettiest. German: most exact, but a mouthful.  \r\n\r\nI wonder:
    are German speakers (and those in other languages with a similar device) slowed
    down by the aggregation of nouns like this, with no word spacing?"
  created: '2006-07-07 14:20:45'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>I wonder: are German speakers (and those in other languages with a
    similar device) slowed down by the aggregation of nouns like this, with no word
    spacing?</cite>\r\n\r\nYou mean, they think slow?&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)\r\n\r\nI don't
    think so. The long words you found are the exception rather than the rule. As
    to philosophical or scientific texts -- once you figure out what someone means
    by a longer word (which has more to do with the interpretation of the text than
    mere deciphering of a single word), these words become variables which you just
    recognize. Whether they are shorter or longer doesn't really matter then.\r\nToday
    \"lichtgeschwindigkeit\" is used which is literally the same as the English and
    French terms. Not that long.\r\n\r\n[Glaube ich nicht. Diese langen w&ouml;rter
    sind eher die ausnahme. Und in texten, in denen sie auftauchen, mu&szlig; man
    sie nicht st&auml;ndig aufs neue entziffern, sondern erkennt sie einfach wieder
    -- blo\xDF eine variable, deren l\xE4nge sich nicht direkt auf deren wiedererkennbarkeit
    auswirkt.]\r\n\r\nJust an example. Not many really long words ...\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2006-07-07 14:53:13'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "\r\nDon't confuse the fact that in German composed words are written in one
    word and the tendency towards longer words (written in one or not).\r\n\r\nThe
    fact that we write composed words in one word is necessary because the word order
    is not fixed like in English. Unfortunately, this principle is not followed by
    everyone anymore.\r\n\r\nMost words are longer because of our naive way of describing
    things rather than using new words. For example, glove is actually Handschuh (handshoe)
    in German. This makes texts longer but on the other hand, many technical terms
    are easier to understand for laymen.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-07 15:17:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Not many really long words \u2026\r\n\r\nYeah but you occassionally get
    something like wiedererkennbarkeit = recognizable :)  \r\n\r\nThe reason I ask
    is because of a question I have not related to this thread: whether the original
    absence of word spacing slowed down readers of Latin and Greek. It seems that
    semitic languages always had word spaces, but that the addition of vowels to the
    alphabet for Greek and Latin sufficiently reduced ambiguity that word spaces were
    not as needed. \r\n\r\nThere is a theory, of Noordzij and Saenger that the re-introduction
    of word spaces by Irish monks in the 8th century enabled silent reading and was
    a big breakthough. I am wondering whether native speakers of Latin and Greek could
    read just as quickly without word spaces. I know Latin is highly conjugated, and
    I've heard the same about Greek, so it may be that word endings are easy to recognize.
    \ \r\n\r\nMy guess is that the reintroduction of word spaces was because the Irish
    monks' Latin was not as good as their continental colleagues, so it was more difficult
    for them to read continuous texts; also they wanted to write Gaelic, which maybe
    has less end-of-word markers... \r\n\r\nIn English we also do aggretated nouns
    (eg. word spaces), but usually keep the words separate. Does the German practice
    reduce ambiguity and help readability? Or does the length of words reduce readability?
    Or is there no difference?  \r\n\r\nI also note that German is much more conjugated
    than English. Is this a factor?"
  created: '2006-07-07 15:27:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the re-introduction of word spaces by Irish monks in the 8th century
    enabled silent reading</em>\r\n\r\nPrior to this, it would have been difficult
    to follow a vow of silence and work in the scriptorium.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-07 15:52:14'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "@William\r\nAs a drastic example,\r\nthe term \"Donaudampfschifffahrtsgesellschaft\"
    - (very badly) translated in \"Danubian steamboat-shipping corporation\" - has
    several combined words (and stems) in it.\r\n\r\nDonau (danube), Dampf (steam),
    Schiff (ship), Fahrt (ride), Gesellschaft (corporation) and \"combined words\",
    terms like Dampfschiff (\"steamship\", steamboat), Schifffahrt (shipping).\r\n\r\nThis
    example is hard to read for native german-speaking people too, but a \"normal
    term\" like \"The declaration of independence\" - \"Die Unabh\xE4ngigkeitserkl\xE4rung\"
    is easy to read for native germans. It depends how many words and stems are combined
    in one term... you got to be used to... that's all :)\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-07 18:56:09'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: "Chris you might remember an issue of U&LC where the name of a Scottish train
    station was the longest word in the world. It means something like \"The place
    over the hill by the church near the oak tree\u2026\""
  created: '2006-07-07 20:02:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thomas,\r\nYour example makes perfect sense to me. As an English speaker,
    I can read antidisestablishmentarianism or dichlorodifluromethane with no problem
    because I am familiar with those words.  There are many other long (for English)
    technical and scientific terms which I do not know. I slow down reading those
    a great deal because I have to sound them out and ponder as to their meaning.
    Familiarity, as you said,  is the key.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-07 20:03:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\u201CThe place over the hill by the church near the oak tree\u2026\u201D\r\n\r\nI
    know that place laddie! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-07 20:05:42'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I think that is the Welsh village already mentioned above by Mili, boyo.\r\n\r\nI
    think the Maori have that beaten though <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taumatawhakatangihangakoauauotamateaturipukakapikimaungahoronukupokaiwhenuakitanatahu\">Tetaumatawhakatangihangakoauaotamateaurehaeaturipukapihimaungahoronukupokaiwhenuaakitanarahu</a>
    and you shouldn\u2019t hyphenate proper nouns so maybe it isn\u2019t the best
    test, wide measure too.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-07-08 12:41:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Tim,\r\nTry that on a 12 pica measure :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-08 13:42:14'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I'm too annoyed by that widow:)\r\nDoes your search have a motive or is it
    curiosity?\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-07-08 17:32:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It started when I was looking for text from foreign languages to test my
    typeface designs.  I was looking for letter combinations which were not very typical
    in English.  I started seeing these enormous words in some languages as well as
    concentrations of either vowels or consonants in other languages. This all made
    me quite curious why words got to be so big in some languages.  From this thread,
    I've learned that it is normal in some languages to just combine words without
    spaces and that everyone is quite comfortable with it. \r\nI am always on the
    lookout for intriguing texts to test type with in any language using Latin, Greek,
    or Cyrillic scripts. I look for subject areas which might match the face I am
    drawing--music, science, art periods, humor or abstract things like darkness and
    lightness.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-08 18:34:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Another good thing about testing type in foreign languages is that you look
    more at the letter combinations than you would in your native tongue since you
    don't get caught up reading the text.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-08 18:37:27'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: "Rauchgasentschwefelungsanlage\r\n(Sulfur Dioxide Detoxification Facility)"
  created: '2006-07-09 04:17:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks John, doesn't sound like a healthy place to visit :-)\r\n\r\nI wish
    there were a word that said:\r\nDarkchocolateandhazelnutswithespressoeatingplace
    instead;-D\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-09 04:54:18'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: Thanks a lot Chris, now I got to go back to the store to get some ice cream.
  created: '2006-07-09 13:26:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Get some for me too Lari!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-09 13:48:37'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Dunkelschokoladehaselnu\xDFespressoschnellimbi\xDF\r\n\r\nApologies to any
    German speakers if I have butchered your language:)\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-07-09 15:01:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!!\r\nNow we just need to market it! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-09 15:25:10'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Michael Ende has written a book called <a href=\"http://www.amazon.de/gp/product/3522166108/028-4697624-2290116?v=glance&n=299956\">Der
    satanarch\xE4ol\xFCgenialkoh\xF6llische Wunschpunsch</a>.\r\n\r\nThis is obviously
    a nonsense play on words, in which the beginnings and ends of words overlap:\r\nsatanarch\xE4ol\xFCgenialkoh\xF6llisch
    =\r\nsatan + anarchie + arch\xE4ologie + l\xFCge + genial + alkohol + h\xF6llisch\r\n\r\nHowever,
    it reduces the length of the word dramatically!\r\nMaybe a model for a more far-reaching
    <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/German_spelling_reform_of_1996\">orthography
    reform</a>?\r\nSome <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/German_spelling_reform_of_1996#Compound_words\">compound
    words</a> have already been split, by the way.\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-10 14:37:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That looks like a fun link Tim! I will have to look at it more closely.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-10 14:48:31'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Okay, Chris, here you go. How about some typeiding? The picture is a bit
    blurry so it wouldn\u2019t be too easy. ;)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/movenpick_5787.jpg]"
  created: '2006-07-10 14:51:50'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Gill Sans at the bottom.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-07-10 15:02:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Lari,\r\nThe top one is Maple Walnut Fudge\r\nThe middle one is Vanilla Swiss
    Almond\r\nand the bottom one is Rocky Road :-)\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-10 15:12:09'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Tim, you\u2019ve got a great <em>sense</em> of humour!\r\n\r\nChris, right
    on! A perfect triple identification! A hat trick!"
  created: '2006-07-10 15:24:09'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "i think the theory that native german speakers easily read longer words because
    they know them is right. i didnt have many problems even reading through donaudampf..
    - you know the word :) - and i havent heard of it before.\r\n\r\nnow try chuchich\xE4schtli
    - its swiss for \xABcupboard in your kitchen\xBB but doesnt really get used at
    all in reality, its just the best known hard-to-spell word for strangers.\r\n\r\nthe
    two places with long names in wales are Llanfairpwllgwyngyllgogerychwyrndrobwllllantysiliogogogoch
    and Gorsafawddachaidraigodanheddogleddollonpenrhynareurdraethceredigion :)"
  created: '2006-07-11 00:31:50'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Back to 7 July and the Irish monks ...\r\n\r\nBill wrote:\r\n<cite>I know
    Latin is highly conjugated, and I\u2019ve heard the same about Greek, so it may
    be that word endings are easy to recognize.</cite>\r\n<cite>I also note that German
    is much more conjugated than English. Is this a factor?</cite>\r\n\r\nFor Latin
    this may be a factor, but conjugations are not that 'visible' in German.\r\n\r\nIs
    your (implicit) idea that German with its longer words is halfway between word-spaced
    English and not-word-spaced Latin, so may shed some light on reading non-word-spaced
    Latin? Despite some longer words, German is still a word-spaced language.&nbsp;&nbsp;:)"
  created: '2006-07-11 00:58:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Lari,\r\nI just noticed that you credited me with your \"quote\"!\r\nGee,
    now I am a published author and a quoted source! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
      picture: 128337
    body: "| a quoted source\r\n\r\n<em>Mis</em>quoted!"
    created: '2006-07-11 13:33:00'
  created: '2006-07-11 01:22:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">s your (implicit) idea that German with its longer words is halfway between
    word-spaced English and not-word-spaced Latin, so may shed some light on reading
    non-word-spaced Latin?\r\n\r\nWell, I was wondering. I know that the very long
    words are unusual. I was wondering whether if when a long new word, formed by
    aggregation does apprear, whether the German reader can break it into into parts
    very easily. If so, yes, it would case some light on the ease with which latin
    and greek speakers could read old latin and greek without word spaces. \r\n\r\nLetmeseeifinEnglishitiseasytoreadasentencewithoutspaces.
    Not so easy. Would it be the same difficulty in German if you run words together?"
  created: '2006-07-11 02:19:57'
- author:
    name: elScorcho
  body: "The longest official Dutch word stated in the Van Dale is \"zandzeepsodemineraalwatersteenstralen\"
    (37) en means \"fuck off\".\r\n\r\nBut in Dutch every word can be combined and
    so you can have \"hottentottententententoonstellingsmakersopleidingsprogramma\"
    (59) and so on."
  created: '2006-07-11 07:01:59'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>LetmeseeifinEnglishitiseasytoreadasentencewithoutspaces. Not so easy.
    Would it be the same difficulty in German if you run words together?</cite>\r\n\r\nDefinitely
    so.\r\n\r\nSeeing your example sentence: it is possible to spot individual words,
    and maybe some training will even allow one to read this. (When writing German
    I capitalize as in English, so use fewer capitals. After some years, I am quite
    accustomed to this, but in the beginning this was irritating and -- my impression
    -- even slowed down reading speed.)"
  created: '2006-07-11 11:25:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Misquoted!\"\r\n\r\nSo much the better :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-11 15:01:44'
- author:
    name: paha
  body: "the longest swedish word Nord\xF6stersj\xF6kustartilleriflygspaningssimulatoranl\xE4ggningsmaterialunderh\xE5llsuppf\xF6ljningssystemdiskuss\r\nonsinl\xE4ggsf\xF6rberedelsearbeten\r\na
    kind a useless word used in the army. "
  created: '2008-02-18 18:57:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I like that one. What does it mean?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-18 19:38:47'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "My guess, Chris, since it's an army word, would be \"hurry up and wait.\"
    :-)\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-02-18 19:52:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Probably true, Russ :-)\r\nIt does have some parts that look like \"artillery
    flying simulator aligning material system disk\" but the army never made much
    sense to me anyhow :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-18 19:58:08'
- author:
    name: paha
  body: "its a word that basicly means \"prepering of an discussion about how to fix
    the system    \r\nso the material at the airplane simulator on the nort-east coats
    of sweden works properly\"\r\n\r\nsome thing like that. it was hard to translate.\r\nbut
    that\xB4s as close I can get to the real word for it "
  created: '2008-02-18 21:15:33'
- author:
    name: murphy.md
    picture: 114291
  body: I work in the Abteilung fuer Quanteninformationsverarbeitung. Try writing
    that on a postcard!
  created: '2008-02-18 21:56:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Good thing these words don't appear on postage stamps :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-19 00:16:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Kim! So only the army in the north-east coast gets to use that word
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-19 00:18:55'
- author:
    name: paha
  body: 'probably.. its really fun to say atsleast. '
  created: '2008-02-19 17:10:59'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "<cite>the longest swedish word Nord\xF6stersj\xF6kustartilleriflygspaningssimulatoranl\xE4ggningsmaterialunderh\xE5llsuppf\xF6ljningssystemdiskuss\r\nonsinl\xE4ggsf\xF6rberedelsearbeten\r\na
    kind a useless word used in the army.</cite>\r\n\r\n:-) Yes, and if you want to
    create a longer \"swedish\" word than that just add some more words to it in the
    end or anywhere else. It will be just as \"real\" as this unofficial swedish word."
  created: '2008-03-10 12:01:23'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "Similarly, the longest Danish word attested is <em>landsbyskolel\xE6rerenkealderdoms&shy;fors\xF8rgelseskasseselskabsbestyrelsesn\xE6stformandssuppleant</em>,
    which could also easily be expanded even further.\r\n\r\nThis word has been used,
    though. By the local police in Horsens back in the 1940s. As a spirits test. If
    you were unable to say this word, you were apparently drunk.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m quite
    glad I didn\u2019t live in Horsens in the 1940s.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n<cite>\xABThere
    is a theory, of Noordzij and Saenger that the re-introduction of word spaces by
    Irish monks in the 8th century enabled silent reading and was a big breakthough.
    I am wondering whether native speakers of Latin and Greek could read just as quickly
    without word spaces. I know Latin is highly conjugated, and I\u2019ve heard the
    same about Greek, so it may be that word endings are easy to recognize.\r\n\r\nMy
    guess is that the reintroduction of word spaces was because the Irish monks\u2019
    Latin was not as good as their continental colleagues, so it was more difficult
    for them to read continuous texts; also they wanted to write Gaelic, which maybe
    has less end-of-word markers...\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nA few points here.\r\n\r\nFirstly,
    there are still languages that do not employ spacing in writing\u2014Chinese and
    Japanese are prime examples, and I believe Thai is completely spaceless, too.
    It is only familiarity with the language that enables the reader to correctly
    separate words. Especially in Chinese and Thai, which are both completely analytic
    languages that do not inflect in any way (this is true of Chinese; my Thai is
    nonexistent, so I\u2019m not entirely sure here, but I believe it too is purely
    analytic), this causes confusion and trouble for the foreign learner, but not
    for the native speaker. Even after nearly six years with Chinese, I still find
    myself often misreading things because I combine the wrong two characters and
    form words that make no sense in the context.\r\n\r\nSecondly, by the 7th and
    8th centuries, Irish was just coming out of two centuries of heavy linguistic
    turmoil, wherein the entire language had more or less fallen completely apart
    and created out of its own ashes an entirely new (and unbelievably complex) grammatical
    system. Part of this new system was the initial mutations, resulting from apocope
    of earlier word endings.\r\n\r\nThese were, however, not systematically indicated
    in writing at that time, so I can imagine it would have been quite useful to add
    spaces, just to know how to pronounce words. Especially since certain cases could
    be easily misunderstood if not separated; example: <em>accat</em> could mean either
    \u2018at/by a cat\u2019 or \u2018their cat\u2019, depending on whether it is separated
    as <em>ac cat</em> (\_=\_Modern Irish <em>ag cat</em>) or <em>a ccat</em> (\_=\_Modern
    Irish <em>a gcat</em>).\r\n\r\nThe structure of Old Irish made ambiguities like
    this one very common, and seem to me a good reason (in addition to your own guesses,
    which I think are probably also factors) to add spaces."
  created: '2008-03-10 13:22:30'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "<cite>\xABthe two places with long names in wales are Llanfairpwllgwyngyllgogerychwyrndrobwllllantysiliogogogoch
    and Gorsafawddachaidraigodanheddogleddollonpenrhynareurdraethceredigion :)\xBB</cite>\r\n\r\nGorsafawddacha\u2019idraigodanheddogleddol-l\xF4npenrhyn&shy;areurdraethceregidion
    went back to being just Golf Halt last year. ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-10 13:39:53'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Korean uses spacing between words, but the system is a mess, mainly due to
    confusion over compound words and general apathy towards correct writing.\r\n\r\nIn
    South Korea, spaces are required at word boundaries (North Korea spacing rules
    are more lax), but there are a number of confusing exceptions and cases where
    spaces are optional. Rather than make an effort to understand these rules, far
    too many people disregard them and sometimes apply ad hoc spacing rules. Those
    in the legal profession are the worst offenders, especially when they write the
    names of laws without using spaces, ending up with monsters like this:\r\n\r\n\uB300\uD55C\uBBFC\uAD6D\uACFC\uC544\uBA54\uB9AC\uCE74\uD569\uC911\uAD6D\uAC04\uC758\uC0C1\uD638\uBC29\uC704\uC870\uC57D\uC81C4\uC870\uC5D0\uC758\uD55C\uC2DC\uC124\uACFC\uAD6C\uC5ED\uBC0F\uB300\uD55C\uBBFC\uAD6D\uC5D0\uC11C\uC758\uD569\uC911\uAD6D\uAD70\uB300\uC758\uC9C0\uC704\uC5D0\uAD00\uD55C\uD611\uC815\uC758\uC2E4\uC2DC\uC5D0\uB530\uB978\uAD00\uC138\uBC95\uB4F1\uC758\uC784\uC2DC\uD2B9\uB840\uC5D0\uAD00\uD55C\uBC95\uB960\r\n(Daehanmingukgwaamerikahapjunggukganuisanghobangwijoyakje4(sa)joeuihansiseolgwaguyeokmitdaehanmingukeseouihapjunggukgundaeeuijiwiegwanhanhyeopjeonguisilsiettareungwansebeopdeunguiimsiteungnyeegwanhanbeomnyul)\r\n\r\nJudging
    from this and their propensity to use as much <em>hanja</em> (Chinese characters)
    as possible, they must take perverse pleasure in making law inaccessible to ordinary
    Koreans. I'm guessing we can blame this on the Japanese."
  created: '2008-03-10 14:21:53'
- author:
    name: "Ois\xEDn"
  body: "I think that\u2019s a common legislative trait to be found throughout the
    entire world, actually. ;-)\r\n\r\nA wild guess: does the first part translate
    as something like, \u201CThe Republic of South Korea [and?] the United States
    of America\u201D and then something with mutual help or something?\r\n\r\n(You
    need to add some soft hyphens in that word!)\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-10 14:39:23'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>I think that\u2019s a common legislative trait to be found throughout
    the entire world, actually. ;-)</cite>\r\nTrue, but dispensing with word spacing?
    Use of Chinese characters whenever possible? Remind you of anyone? ;-)\r\n\r\nYour
    guess is correct! I'm impressed. I had a headache just typing that out, so I'll
    have to gather myself before I parse it and translate it.\r\n\r\n(takes deep breath)\r\n\r\nYes,
    I should have put soft hyphens in there, but since I don't want to edit it and
    mess up the chronology, I'll just write it again with correct spacing (with particles,
    which are like postpositions, separated by hyphens):\r\n\r\nDaehanminguk-gwa Amerika
    Hapjungguk gan-ui sangho bangwi joyak je4(sa)jo-e uihan siseol-gwa guyeok mit
    Daehanminguk-eseoui Hapjungguk gundae-ui jiwi-e gwanhan hyeopjeong-ui silsi-e
    ttareun gwansebeop deung-ui imsi teungnye-e gwanhan beomnyul\r\n\r\nOops, I wrote
    <em>gundaeeui</em> instead of <em>gundaeui</em> in the previous post... I guess
    a typo was inevitable...\r\n\r\nA rough translation: Law concerning temporary
    exceptions to customs law et al. following the implementation of the Agreement
    under Article 4 of the Mutual Defense Treaty between the Republic of Korea and
    the United States of America, Regarding Facilities and Areas and the Status of
    United States Armed Forces in the Republic of Korea"
  created: '2008-03-10 15:06:33'
- author:
    name: maltelunden
    picture: 113747
  body: "Does anyone now Turkish? They should have quite a few long words, in the
    style of finnish, since they also put all their personal, time-related and possesive
    suffixes in the back of the word.\r\n\r\nLike (I think this is somewhat correct)
    \"\xFCz\xFClm\xFCy\xFCor\xFCm\": 'disappointed' + 'not' + 'now' + 'me', or, 'I
    am not disappointed'. You see, this was a rather simple word (\xFCz\xFClmek),
    so we should be able to find an even longer turkish verb with tons of suffixes.
    Yay!\r\n\r\n...okay, now back to work\r\n\r\n\u2013 <em>Malte</em>"
  created: '2008-03-11 08:30:05'
date: '2006-07-04 21:04:39'
node_type: forum
title: 'Long German words to test H&J:'

---
