---
author:
  name: brampitoyo
  picture: 111612
body: "Okay,\r\n\r\nSo we've been classifying and identifying oldstyle typefaces using
  the above terms forever. But let's clear things up -- beyond the usual x-height
  proportion and greater/lower face contrast and weight -- shall we?\r\n\r\nI find
  <A HREF=http://www.paratype.com/help/class/default.asp?ClassCode=11000>this ParaType
  article</A> to be very helpful as a starting point. My theory is, there's gotta
  be a simpler way to organize oldstyle faces.<!--break-->\r\n\r\nOf course, I could
  be totally wrong and this is just another futile attempt to reinvent the wheel.\r\n\r\nIs
  there a simpler way to organize oldstyle faces? What makes an oldstyle a French,
  Italian, Dutch or English."
comments:
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: Well, Venetian is easy, the cross bar on the e is at an angle. Otherwise it
    is a Garalde. I've never tried to split into English/French/Dutch.
  created: '2006-07-06 20:25:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Well, these things are complicated because there are always exceptions. \r\nThe
    first old style, Jenson does have the angled crossbar on the e, but it also has
    a lot of calligraphic details. \r\n\r\nThe typefaces done by Griffo for Aldus
    were less calligraphic and had the straight crossbar. Garmand and other french
    had Griffo's type, and if I've got it right basically lightened it a bit, with
    smaller serifs--an elegance. \r\n\r\nThe Dutch, influenced probably by black letter,
    increased the x-height of these designs, increased the weight of the serifs and
    the general blackness of the letters. They also, as G. Noordzij pointed out, were
    willing to change the stress on different letters, reflecting writing by pen which
    changed the angle of the pen. \r\n\r\nCaslon was basically imitating Dutch faces,
    adding his own personality and take on the letters. Baskerville, also English,
    started a different look by taking Caslon's face, making it wider, with smoother
    curves, upright stress, and more regularity. Generally a 'neoclassical' feel.
    \r\n\r\nSo Jenson=Venetian, the school of Aldus to Garamond is another, and the
    Dutch are another. Caslon is an English variation on the Dutch. Baskerville is
    something new. He is taken up on the continent and his ideas taken to their extreme
    by Didot and Bodoni. There are definitely lines of influence, but each designer
    had his own take on letters also. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-06 21:09:11'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "You might look at the text of Jan Middendorp's 'Dutch Type'. The initial
    text talks about this a little. The book is expensive but maybe you can find it
    in a bookstore or  a library. Even though it's expensive, I think it was well
    worth it. Here's a link:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typotheque.com/site/book.php?id=4\r\n\r\nThe
    Dutch Oldstyle is usually described as having shorter ascenders & descenders plus
    a larger x height resulting in less metal use per glyph and more economical use
    of paper as well. The Italian & french are descriobed by Karen Cheng as 'lighter
    & more refined' and the English as more sturdy & less refined. \r\n\r\nKeep in
    mind that none of these generalizations is based on clean or easy separations
    - and the real data underling these genralizations is complicated & messy. For
    one thing - lots of the type described as english french etc was actually made
    in the low countries. Or Germany. But the urge to tell a story & generalize in
    the face of real complexity is too strong to resist... Unfortunately it is often
    less than acurate too. But take what I say with some salt. I have only been looking
    at type seriously for a year or so.\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-06 21:28:09'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "I might as well add to this:\r\n\r\nHow about \"German\" type? I know Pradell
    by Eudalde (and now Typerepublic) is a serif face meant to have a distinctly Spanish
    feel, or at least to recall a distinctly Spanish wsy of drawing legible serif
    type. \r\n\r\nEsta by DSTYpe is meant to be distinctly Latin-American in flavour,
    for example. While, say, Quaestor Serif by the same is meant to evoke the style
    of Classic Roman letterforms.\r\n\r\nSo what might Germany's answer be to faces
    like Pradell, Andrade, Esta, and the like?"
  created: '2006-07-06 23:15:25'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Ah, yes!\r\n\r\nI completely forgot about the Catalan and Latin font scene.
    Perhaps due to my ignorance, I haven't seen much typefaces of these flavors other
    than Eduardo Manso's Relato and the many creations of DSType and Textaxis. <A
    HREF=http://www.letraslatinas.com/texto.asp>Letras Latinas</A> is one good resource,
    but they're so ecletic (which, in a sense, is good.)\r\n\r\nBut honestly, I've
    had a lot of trouble pointing out their oldstyle/transitional faces' unique characteristics.\r\n\r\nSo
    the categorization of French, Italian, Dutch and English (and Catalan) would make
    much more sense if seen in light of their historical progression, rather than
    their typeface constructions, then?"
  created: '2006-07-07 06:08:34'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "There is a ton of <em>German</em> type. I hope that the Germans who read
    and post here will forgive me for leaving things out, especially all of the great
    blackletter type, which would be just too much to go into here!\r\n\r\nA short,
    short, short list:\r\n1. Garamond type came to Frankfurt with Jacob Sabon around
    1580.\r\n2. At first glance, Walbaum might look quite similar to Bodoni or Didot
    types, but it is really quite different, and (maybe became) quite German.\r\n3.
    Lots of fantastic 19th Century sans serif type.\r\n4. Walter Tracy brought a beat
    down on German serif typefaces of the first half of the 20th Century, writing
    (if I remember correctly) that Koch Antiqua was the only good one.\r\n5. But there
    was a lot of great serif type\u2026 some of which, unlike Koch Antiqua, were real
    text faces (although Koch Antiqua in metal was used for books, too). Great types
    were cast from designs by Schneidler and Tiemann, for instance. I'm sure that
    there were many more.\r\n6.Palatino.\r\n7. Optima.\r\n8. Despite my misgivings
    about some of it, the East German communist regime had a state-sponsored type
    foundry, which brought out some interesting work."
  created: '2006-07-07 08:16:32'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "That's so true Dan. Faces like Palatino, Schneidler and von Hesse's Carmina
    looked distinctively German. Prillwitz, Koch Antiqua and Walbaum are good examples,
    but I'm focusing mainly on the Oldstyle to Transtitional genre.\r\n\r\nWhat makes
    them distinctively German, though? That is what I was trying to figure out all
    along.\r\n\r\nAll I could think of is their Glyphic quality and sharp, tapered
    serif, but not much else."
  created: '2006-07-07 18:45:48'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">What makes them distinctively German, though?\r\n\r\nTheir heavy use in
    Germany is one thing. Another specific \"German\" feature about a lot of late-19th
    century through 1940ish typefaces is (too) short descenders (someone out there
    please correct me if these too-vague details are inaccurate): The German type
    foundries had some sort of standardized sort measurements\u2026 these were based
    on the proportions of [[Fraktur]]. All fonts within a point size had to have the
    same baseline \"height\". Fraktur typically has a tall x-height, and small ascenders
    and descenders. [[Roman]], or [[Antiqua]] typefaces don't tend to look good with
    the same big x-height\u2026 so that could be dropped down, and the design could
    have relatively longer ascenders. But the descender length couldn't change because
    the baseline was uniform. This allows for the easier mixing of types, I guess.\r\n\r\nI
    think that German typefaces before [[Helvetica]] (begun in Switzerland but expanded
    by [[D. Stempel AG]] in Frankfurt) are almost all very calligraphic in origin,
    with exception of the sans serifs and some of the Modern ([[Didone]]) designs."
  created: '2006-07-07 20:24:49'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: 'That''s fascinating. Of course, I forgot about good old Palatino, still one
    of my favourites. Palatino Nova, of course, is causing some excitement as well. '
  created: '2006-07-07 23:39:44'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: That's some mighty specific and useful information you got there, Dan! I find
    that short descender to x-height/ascender proportion is, indeed, a highly appropriate
    way for classifying Teutonic typefaces.
  created: '2006-07-08 01:13:17'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Bram, type founding was a highly industrial process for at least a good hundred
    years or so. The Industrial Revolution brought standardization to all sorts of
    things, even places where it did not necessarily need to be.\r\n\r\nThis is interesting
    in light of the fact that no German government ever really declared Fraktur to
    be its official type style of choice (a vote in the pre-WWI Reichstag was more
    or less deadlocked between Fraktur and Antiqua), although the NS-Regime did ban
    it towards their end. I guess that standards are another matter altogether."
  created: '2006-07-08 11:17:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The short ascenders are not only German. The 'Dutch' faces had shorter ascenders
    and descenders, also probably under the influence of black letter. \r\n\r\nThe
    shortened descenders was the fashion also in the US from the late 19th through
    mid century at least. Some thought very short descenders were important to economical
    setting. Merganthaler Linotype faces were also cast on a 'standard' baseline,
    which enforced short descenders. They had to make special provision for 'art'
    faces with full descenders.    "
  created: '2006-07-08 11:26:51'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Many of Goudy's faces have quite short descenders, don't they? Didn't Monotype
    matrices come in short and long alternates for some designs?\r\n\r\nSpeaking of
    Economy, Dr. Karl Klingspor wrote a book around 1950 chronicling the Klingspor
    foundry\u2026 in one sense it seems like a swan-song for a company whose days
    were numbered. Anyway, he shows several pages of examples illustrating how Fraktur
    is more economical than Antiqua (more characters per line, more lines per page
    within the same allotted space). In these days after WWII, I suspect that it was
    in the offing that books were not going to be set in Fraktur anymore. But the
    book is still an interesting read."
  created: '2006-07-08 11:55:15'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "The industrial revolution and the mechanization of the press are very good
    points on the standardization of types. And yes, I remembered from reading somewhere
    that Monotype and Linotype has a rough classification system comprised of text
    faces and art faces. The former complied with their matrix standard while the
    second can really go out and about.\r\n\r\nThe Legibility Group's newspaper face
    was very easily identifiable, though. Noticeably short descender and ascender,
    normal to condensed width, noticeable open counterspace, Transitional-Modern roman
    construction, and so on.\r\n\r\nThe Dutch typefaces are just like that, but with
    an Oldstyle construction in mind. Indeed, 20th century romans like Times New Roman
    was based on Plantin.\r\n\r\nTeutonic faces, on the other hand, seem to have a
    moderate x-height (caused by short descender <em>but</em> normal ascender), an
    Oldstyle-Transitional construction and that glyphic quality (see the hook of 'a'
    on Palatino)"
  created: '2006-07-08 21:53:27'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Hi Bram\r\n\r\nWell yes we know what you mean... the problem originates with
    the Vox terminology because it equates oldstyle (your term) with 'Garalde'. 'Garalde'
    is a compound name that conflates two different categories - the oldstyles of
    GARamond and the late venetian styles of ALDus.\r\n\r\nWilliam is right about
    the essential progression of the differing national styles historically, but by
    the time he mentions Baskerville (transitional) and Dan mentions Walbaum (modern)
    we are no longer in oldstyle territory, and outside of the scope of your question.\r\n\r\nInterestingly
    enough, Jaspert (1958) lists only 30 faces in the Old Face section of the Encyclopedia
    of Typefaces \u2013 so in a sense, this is already the simplest way to organise
    the oldstyle faces. A key attribute would be the irregularity* of genuine oldstyle
    faces when contrasted with the technical refinements that produced later types.
    \r\n\r\nThe situation only gets really complicated when trying to include all
    those 20th century revivals and text faces within an oldstyle classification \u2013
    which is where Robert Bringhurst's ideas about a historically-based classification
    come in useful.\r\n\r\nRelated articles about the relative uselessness of classification
    in general are Jonathan Hoefler's 'On Classifying Type' which is mentioned at
    http://typophile.com/node/17412 and also a great discussion on this from last
    year at http://typophile.com/node/9757\r\n\r\nHistorical and structural distinctions
    between French, Italian, English and Dutch oldstyle typefaces are reduced to English/Dutch
    vs. Continental Taste by Catherine Dixon in her 'Typeform Dialogues' project,
    which is an attempt to work up a new classification system and iron out the vagaries
    of the old systems. One of her significant findings was that type designers consciously
    'aim for the gaps' in classification systems \u2013 if you think about Unger Fraktur
    (1793) being a hybrid between forms of traditional blackletter and the proportions
    of the (then) modern roman of Didot, then you can see that this idea has a lot
    of precedent. I guess it was like the Dead History of its day.\r\n\r\nAlthough
    'Typeform Dialogues' is currently on hold, Dixon's system is written up pretty
    comprehensively in Baines & Haslam's <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0823055280/sr=8-2/qid=1152410008/ref=pd_bbs_2/002-1701602-4475220?ie=UTF8\">'Type
    and Typography'.</a>\r\n\r\n* This is a real problem if you think about where/how
    to classify <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/?fuseaction=catalog.fontpackage&searchby=manufacturer&displayfontid=FF.475.0.0\">Beowolf</a>
    because while it's based on an oldstyle face, the technology that creates Beowolf,
    and its resulting irregularity of forms are really not 'genuine' oldstyle."
  created: '2006-07-09 04:27:45'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Exactly,\r\n\r\nThat's why I put the word \"oldstyle\" instead of \"Garalde\",
    \"Aldine\" or anything. Speaking of which, Aldus' Venetian is earlier than Garamond's
    style, too.\r\n\r\nMy aim is to figure out whether classifying oldstyle faces
    (and just oldstyle faces) by region is relevant and logical. To my knowledge most
    resources only made distinction between Venetian, French (as in Garamond's), Dutch
    and English, but only vaguely mention the unique features of each.\r\n\r\nPut
    simply, I want to find some identifying characteristics that, although cannot
    be applied universally, can be used to categorize Fournier as being French, Caslon
    as being English, and Plantin as being Dutch.\r\n\r\nBringhurst's historically
    based clasification can be one of the characteristics, because it doesn't discount
    newer faces like Palatino, Perpetua, and such.\r\n\r\nI suspect that another good
    characteristic is the x-height to ascender to descender proportion. This method,
    in my opinion, is more accurate than simply saying \"This typeface has a large
    x-height and long ascender\" because it takes the three proportions into account.
    As you can see, I attempted to differentiate Dutch oldstyle from German oldstyle
    with this method. I'm not sure if it hits the jackpot, but it's a good place to
    start.\r\n\r\nIrregularity can be another good point, but I would see it in a
    different light: the italic. As we all know, italics was originally not designed
    to work as roman companions. Dutch and English oldstyle faces have italics that
    are 'regularized' (read: designed with the roman in mind), while Venetian and
    French roman and italic were two separate entities.\r\n\r\nBut this idea, born
    solely out of curiosity, could just be another useless attempt at catching the
    wind. So I really don't know.\r\n\r\nI have yet to read all of your recommended
    articles -- which are all very relevant to the topic -- aside from Mr. Bringhurst's.\r\n\r\nBut
    I have a hunch that I should start with Mr. Hoefler's posting first.\r\n\r\nKeep
    the comments coming!"
  created: '2006-07-09 07:46:38'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Happy reading, Bram\r\n\r\nYou're not the only American I know who's commented
    on an unwillingness to embrace the Vox terminology... I think Forrest Norvell
    did the same last year.\r\n\r\nSomewhere \u2013 maybe in Bringhurst, or more likely
    in Lawson's 'Anatomy of a Typeface' \u2013 I recall seeing a comparison chart
    of slope degree and/or irregularity of italics within a range of faces; has anyone
    else seen this lately?\r\n\r\nAs for <cite> Dutch and English oldstyle faces have
    italics that are \u2018regularized\u2019 </cite> I have to disagree. \r\n\r\nOne
    of the attributes of the  Caslon Old Face that always made me reluctant to use
    it was (and still is) the unharmonised slopes of the italic. Jaspert states <cite>
    In the italic, as in many old face italics, the capitals are irregular in their
    inclination; the A, V and W appear to be falling over. </cite>\r\n\r\nWhen you
    examine the italic lowercase close up, it's apparent that the slope of the main
    strokes of b,d,f,h,j,k,l,p and q are in no way consistent with each other, or
    necessarily with the rest of the mean-height lowercase characters.\r\n\r\nThe
    model for Caslon's work, especially in the italic, was type by Cristoffel van
    Dijck, Amsterdams leading typefounder of the preceding century. This irregularity
    of slope is of course related closely to the <cite> change of the stress on different
    letters, reflecting writing by pen which changed the angle of the pen </cite>
    that William is talking about at post #3. These are not rationalised italics but
    letters based on the inconsistencies of handwritten forms.\r\n\r\nNot all handwriting
    needs to look unbalanced. My reasons for discriminating against Caslon are the
    same as my reason for disliking <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/112288/rotisfontfamilygroup-clan.html\">
    Rotis </a> \u2013 there is an intrinsic lack of balance in the face, and certain
    characters look like they're about to fall over. Once you notice this, it's very
    hard not to see the same flaw ever after on each successive viewing.\r\n\r\nTo
    argue for a regional or national variation in rationalising italic slope angles
    relatively within the italic (or to the construction of the associated roman face)
    \u2013 you would have to go to a later historical period, and here the French
    founders of the early 18th century have the advantage, but by this point we are
    dealing with transitional typefaces, rather than oldstyle."
  created: '2006-07-10 10:41:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">These are not rationalised italics but letters based on the inconsistencies
    of handwritten forms.\r\n\r\nThe irregularities in the slopes of old style italics
    generally do have a logic to them, and it is not really a handwriting logic. For
    example generally the ascenders are more vertical than the stem of the n. I suspect
    this is because a more extreme slope would create kerning problems. The lesser
    slope of k ascender compared to the l, for example, is because of problems in
    drawing a balanced looking old style k (looped top) with an extreme lean in the
    ascender. \r\n\r\nIn the case of Caslon in particular, the AVW in the original
    Caslon have their thick diagonals nearly the same slope as the H. This makes the
    thin diagonals slope more extremely. You can argue with it as a bad decision,
    but it does has some visual logic to it. I believe that Moxon, the early English
    type designer, recommended it. It works to an extent with the caps as initial
    caps with lower case letters. In an all-caps italic setting it clearly doesn't
    work very well. But then I don't think they were planning to use italic all caps
    back then. The frequent presence of the swash JQTY as standard is a sign of the
    same approach to italic caps as leading letters.   "
  created: '2006-07-10 13:02:32'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Ah yes, I'd forgotten about the angles relating to the kerning... however
    a comparison of the different angles in mean-height lowercase n, u and v, and
    also the main strokes of p and q, would still support what I'm saying about the
    slope inconsistencies in general.\r\n\r\nI think my point was to claim that particularly
    the Dutch and English oldstyle italics were not harmonised (or regularised, as
    Bram says). \r\n\r\nAnd yes, in the case of Caslon I can argue with it as a bad
    decision and think other faces are superior, but then we have a lot more to choose
    from these days. Later (better?) reworkings of Caslon, like <a/href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/?fuseaction=catalog.fontpackage&searchby=manufacturer&displayfontid=M.153.0.0\">Imprint</a>
    show a much more orderly conception of what a regularised accompanying italic
    should look like."
  created: '2006-07-13 06:33:02'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "I think I failed to define the word 'regularized'. By that, I meant that
    the Italics were designed to go with the Romans, regardless of their slope angles
    and such.\r\n\r\nBut indeed, orderly slopes was more prevalent the more recent
    you go in years. In that respect, English face like <A HREF=http://store.adobe.com/type/browser/F/CASF/F_CASF-10105310.html>Caslon
    </A>had a more 'regularized' italic in comparison to <A HREF=http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/janson-text/56-italic-oldstyle-figures/>Janson.</A>\r\n\r\nThe
    fact that the digital rendition of Garamond from Monotype has such an individual
    italic is an entirely different thing."
  created: '2006-07-14 21:08:09'
date: '2006-07-06 08:27:57'
title: What Makes an Oldstyle a French, Italian, Dutch or English?

---
