---
author:
  name: fontplayer
  picture: 111445
body: "Recently my fontplay was deleted without a comment. I realize this is a very
  liberal group, and you probably got complaints, but I think an explanation would
  be nice when you delete a post, if only by e-mail. I remain curious as to what aspect
  of my comment was over the top? \r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "I guess another case of liberals for free speech unless they don't agree
    with it? It's to be expected when they control the forum, I guess.\r\n\r\nI was
    kind of proud of that one since I had made every aspect of it, including the target;
    when my old printer's cartridge ran out of yellow, I printed a bunch of magenta
    targets before putting in a new one. Not to mention putting 21 shots in a 2\"
    hole with a .45 ACP is a *tad* better than most law enforcement officers can do.
    \r\n\r\n(I once considered being one until watching COPS made me realize that
    they deal with the bottom of the barrel, and more power to them...)\r\n: )"
  created: '2006-07-09 23:29:53'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "It might have been an accident, Dennis. Although it does take an effort to
    delete a comment accidentally. For the record, the forums aren't run by liberals
    either. It may seem that way, but I think we have made an effort not to guided
    by our politics.\r\n\r\nIf a comment is deleted, and you feel it was done wrongly,
    you should e-mail the moderators. E-mailing us even a few days after it happens
    won't guarantee we recall what or why it happened in the first place."
  created: '2006-07-10 00:22:40'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "I certainly hope it was no accident, Tiffany: the macho bravado exhibited
    in comment #2 above leads me to believe that the subject of the post in question
    has no place in this forum, nor in any other forum other than one devoted to bulletheads.\r\n\r\nHandgun
    worship is simply militarism writ small. This year alone, the nation-states of
    the world will spent almost <strong>one trillion dollars</strong> on various kinds
    of hardware and software intended to maim, mutilate and kill other human beings.
    The companies and individuals who manufacture this hardware and software will
    become rich(er); meanwhile, tens of thousands of children will starve to death,
    and millions will die of preventable diseases or avoidable mishaps. Destroying
    lives is easy: any fool can do it (hence, this foolish discussion); saving lives
    is far more difficult, yet it's entirely within our means as a species, if only
    we allocated these misplaced resources to saving lives, instead of destroying
    them. If that's liberal thinking, then call me a liberal all you want: I'm not
    ashamed to wear the label..."
  created: '2006-07-10 00:43:57'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>then call me a liberal all you want: I\u2019m not ashamed to wear the
    label</em>\r\n\r\n\"Violent crime rates are highest overall in states with laws
    severely limiting or prohibiting the carrying of concealed firearms for self-defense\".
    (FBI Uniform Crime Reports, 1992)\r\n\r\nThe above has been proved time and again.
    Of course liberals don't usually let the facts get in their way.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontplay.com/images2/mgmoderna.jpg\"
    target=\"_blank\">The FP in question</a>\r\n\r\nLiberals: Making sure only the
    criminals have them."
  created: '2006-07-10 00:54:29'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: PS, Thanks for answering Tiff.
  created: '2006-07-10 00:59:44'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Btw, before anyone gets too worked up, I prefer a Canon D20 these days, although
    I don't have as much skill with it. But I have some <a href="http://www.fontplay.com/freephotos/"
    target="_blank">photos I took at the OC Fair yesterday here </a> - the last two
    days entries. Some nice flower shots in the "60 new photos" link.
  created: '2006-07-10 01:11:38'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "<cite>Of course liberals don\u2019t usually let the facts get in their way.</cite>\r\n\r\nPlease
    take this crap somewhere else. "
  created: '2006-07-10 02:38:28'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I don't think that belonged here fontplayer, although I have no idea what
    the context was.\r\n\r\nAlso - you forgot don't yank the trigger\u2026 :)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-07-10 02:40:33'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Although I respect Nick's fontmaking, I couldn't let that idealistic diatribe
    float through as relevant. \r\n\r\nSure, we all wish we lived in an ideal world.
    Guess what. Ain't gonna happen. Not in the way the idealists think anyway. In
    the meantime, as far as real people are concerned, the FBI also reports that firearms
    are used three to five times more often to stop crimes than to commit them. \r\n\r\nBut
    in claiming the moral high-ground with us ignorant hicks, what is important is
    ideals, not facts. \r\n\r\nNow I'm willing to drop it, unless someone else gets
    on their high-horse."
  created: '2006-07-10 02:49:29'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t think that belonged here fontplayer, although I have no
    idea what the context was.</em>\r\n\r\nOK, I sort of agree. I think a sub-conscious
    mischieviousness may have been the context, although I can't be sure. Reading
    Nick's post did give me my best laugh of the day. He sure makes nice fonts, so
    I am willing to cut him a bunch of slack.\r\n\r\nThis is just another of those
    issues that has a lot of emotion attached. And wildly diverging opinions. Long
    ago, I advised religion and politics (this is a political issue in my mind) be
    avoided, but was voted down. So I guess I should have known better.\r\n; )"
  created: '2006-07-10 03:01:15'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Get on board the high horse y'all!\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2MXHBI-lrpM&search=carousel"
  created: '2006-07-10 03:14:29'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Guns are bad,  I much preferred when men dealt with their \"issues\" by slapping
    a couple of steel blades together, ahh the good ole days:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yn8pknWiKfs&mode=related&search=monty%20python%20"
  created: '2006-07-10 03:19:58'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Hey, controversy isn't the same without you. Thanks for putting it in perspective.\r\n;
    )"
  created: '2006-07-10 03:29:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Dennis, I always have an itch to check facts that don't ring true. \r\n\r\nGoogling
    I discover that this claim about more weapons being used in self-defense than
    in crime comes not from FBI statistics but from the research of Prof. Gary Kleck,
    whose methodology has been severely criticised by others--though the NRA quotes
    him often. \r\n\r\nsee for example \r\n\r\nhttp://www.hsph.harvard.edu/announcements/kleck.html\r\n\r\nand
    \r\n\r\nhttp://www.saf.org/LawReviews/Hemenway1.htm\r\n\r\nI don't know who is
    right, but it's not FBI statistics. "
  created: '2006-07-10 03:39:13'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "You know, I've been thinking about it, this place really needs to either
    censor everyone, or stay out of the way and let people be the idiots that they
    may be.  We're all adults here, we can take it.   But picking and choosing does
    not make sense to me at all.  Censoring any speech or piece of art is truly where
    things start going awry, it's not what people in the business of communication
    should practice.\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-07-10 03:47:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Censoring any speech or piece of art is truly where things start going awry\r\n\r\nAs
    I've argued before, censoring views on politics and religion is not called for,
    but deleting personal attacks is. It will keep typophile a happier place, in my
    opinion, with no loss to vigorous argument about any subject. "
  created: '2006-07-10 03:50:17'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "o.k., they can delete personal attacks, and links to the BBC website, but
    that's it!  Stay away from the video links moderator.\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-07-10 03:54:43'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "My thing with the BBC, which is often quoted in political discussions here,
    is that you can do a search there and find anything that backs up your point,
    so what's the use?  For example, let's say I wanted to make the point that TV
    is actually good for you.  Go to the BBC, do a search, and here you go:\r\n\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/cbbcnews/hi/tv_film/newsid_1838000/1838703.stm"
  created: '2006-07-10 04:01:15'
- author:
    name: Stephen Lording
    picture: 109670
  body: "<cite>Guns are bad, I much preferred when men dealt with their \u201Cissues\u201D
    by slapping a couple of steel blades together, ahh the good ole days:</cite>\r\n\r\nSteel
    blades, you say? There are <a href=\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mMExiy6Bm2Y&search=fish%20slap\">more
    satisfying things to use for slapping than steel blades</a>...\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-10 04:29:03'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>Kleck, whose methodology has been severely criticised by others\u2014though
    the NRA quotes him often.</em>\r\n\r\nI guess it comes down to being a case where
    statistics can prove any point, depending on what you want your outcome to be.
    Here's what the NRA says about one study refuting Kleck:\r\n\r\nTo produce the
    misleading ratio from the study, the only defensive or protective uses of firearms
    that were counted were those in which criminals were killed by would-be crime
    victims. This is the most serious of the study's flaws, since fatal shootings
    of criminals occur in only a fraction of 1% of protective firearm uses nationwide.\r\n------\r\nBut
    to go in another direction, this is from Wikipedia:\r\n\r\nIn Florida, which first
    introduced \"shall-issue\" concealed carry laws, crimes committed against residents
    dropped markedly upon the general issuance of concealed-carry licenses, which
    had the unintended consequence of putting tourists in Florida driving marked rental
    cars at risk from criminals (since tourists may be readily presumed unarmed.)
    Florida responded by enacting laws prohibiting the obvious marking of rental cars.
    With this change, crime rates continued to fall alongside the issuance of concealed
    weapons licenses.\r\n-------------\r\nIn the end, I believe you will believe what
    you want to believe.\r\n: )\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-10 04:33:31'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "I know this isn't politically correct nor reliant upon statistics, but truth
    be told, there are dark places in our dear world/planet where having a weapon
    by your side is a positive thing (in the sense that it can save your life, albeit,
    at the cost of another's), and that includes the good ole U.S.A.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-07-10 04:45:47'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Ah, yes, forgot about the fish slapping!  That's pretty much how we solve
    issues around here isn't it?  And by posting pictures of PETS!!!  Any new cat,
    dog or bunny pictures?  Although, like guns, bunnies can kill too:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rxy4MvXPghI&mode=related&search=monty%20python%20"
  created: '2006-07-10 04:54:34'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "And now for some religion:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cartoonistsimple_3923.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    took this photo at the fair Friday. \r\n\r\n(I heard someone say God should have
    told Adam not to eat the serpent)"
  created: '2006-07-10 05:17:23'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>(...) there are dark places in our dear world/planet where having a
    weapon by your side is a positive thing (in the sense that it can save your life,
    albeit, at the cost of another\u2019s), and that includes the good ole U.S.A.</em>\r\n\r\nTouch\xE9!
    :^)"
  created: '2006-07-10 11:58:42'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "BTW I started reading this thread to check if any moderator had already replied
    to it, but by the 5th post I already was cursing myself for even opening it. It
    inevitably sends icy shivers down my spine whenever I'm reminded of what ugly
    people roam this earth. :^/\r\n\r\nAm I glad I don't have to moderate General
    Discussions and can happily stick to the Type Identification Board. This is also
    the sole reason why I don't feel I have to maintain moderator impartiality in
    my comments here.\r\n\r\nAnd thank you Nick, for your wonderful, thoughtful, sensible
    comment. :^)"
  created: '2006-07-10 12:08:15'
- author:
    name: Molly Stoyles
    picture: 111722
  body: "I have been an avid reader of Typophile for about a year now. It has been
    a great source of humour and knowledge for me in my hectic life as a designer
    and student. I am always mesmorized by the wealth of information one can glean
    from exposure to other like-minded individuals. \r\n\r\nI have up to this point
    been merely a reader not a participant; mainly I enjoy trolling the forums for
    new ideas for type-choices and the like. But this weekend with the appearance
    of this thread I feel it is time to contribute.\r\nHow or why this discussion
    started I am not really sure...but for those us us who are beginning our careers
    as designers and trying to fuel our typographic fires, it is stomach-turning.
    I live in Ottawa - I get enough polictical diatribes here.\r\n\r\nAnd for your
    consideration...perhaps you'd reserve your comments about gun control if for example,
    you had RCMP officers in your family and this weekend several mounties were shot
    while in pursuit of a suspect. Then you had to wait by the phone to hear if your
    sister was dead after being shot by an unregistered rifle.\r\n\r\nI respect the
    rights of free speech and even the right to bear arms - however it doesn't help
    me sleep at night.\r\n \r\nSo, let's talk about type and leave the soapbox at
    home please."
  created: '2006-07-10 13:05:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Dennis, is your latest graphic supposed to imply that those critical of your
    viewpoint just don't want to hear the facts? If so, that is really off base. It
    is you who were not factual when you stated that FBI statistics show that more
    guns were used in self-defense against crime than in commiting crime. \r\n\r\nAlso
    you do not acknowledge your error, which makes me think you are not interested
    in a rational dialogue about the issue. \r\n\r\nAlso the NRA is rather notoriously
    biassed on these issues, so quoting them alone is not very convincing. \r\n\r\nLet
    us look at what Prof. Kleck actually did. He had phone surveyers ask gun owners
    whether they had ever used a gun in self-defense against crime. This would include
    waving a gun at an 8 year old child who is cutting across your lawn (trespassing).
    So a few cranks who are constantly waving their guns at those they imagine to
    be trespassers could create the large 'self defence' numbers Kleck reports. And
    it might be that a polite request would have been just as effective--and a lot
    more civilized--than waving a gun at someone. So it seems to me that Kleck's numbers
    (from 1993!) don't prove much of anything. \r\n\r\nThe gun control issue is not
    a simple one. But just quoting the NRA and ignoring problems with their supposed
    'facts' is not going to shed any light on the issue, nor convince anybody of anything.
    \r\n\r\nAlso Dennis, if you act on your principle \"you will believe what you
    want to believe,\" then what is your point in posting your provocative graphics?
    \ "
  created: '2006-07-10 13:39:50'
- author:
    name: svenni
    picture: 110438
  body: "To me this is pretty simple. \r\n\r\nThis place is about typographic work.
    If it's good, but contains politics that I dissapprove of, I still try to appreciate
    the work, and discuss it as such. \r\n\r\nNo one here, you included, Mr. Type
    Play, seems to be interested at all in discussing this on a typographic or design
    basis. \r\n\r\nSo here it goes:\r\n\r\nThere doesn't seem to be much typography
    in the whole thing. The typeface is standard and unspectacular, the composition
    is pretty cheap, and you don't seem to have given the whole typography thing much
    thought. \r\n\r\nIt seems to be more about wordplay than typeplay. And the word
    joke is kind of cheap too, in the sense that the motif has been used millions
    of times before in this discussion. \r\n\r\nI consider myself to be on the right-wing
    side of politics, I don't really have an opinion on Gun Control, allthough in
    my country we don't allow handguns at all, and hunting weapons are really just
    used for hunting. \r\n\r\nI don't think you're gonna change anyone's mind with
    the trite word game on your \"type play\". And since you've allready come here
    with the preconcieved notion that the users of this site are of a liberal bent,
    comeing in here and posting this and then focusing on creating a hostile discussion
    on gun politics doesn't paint a very pretty picture of the people and politics
    you're representing. \r\n\r\nI for one am not fond of the idea that people who
    like to enter situations with the intent on starting up a fight should posess
    lethal weapons. "
  created: '2006-07-10 14:56:34'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>Dennis, is your latest graphic supposed to imply that those critical
    of your viewpoint just don\u2019t want to hear the facts?</em>\r\n\r\nHeavens
    no. It was the latest FP I did, and I merely thought it was fun. It is more a
    comment on man's nature. And went back to my comment about the two things we should
    steer away from in discussions.\r\n\r\n<em>Also you do not acknowledge your error,
    which makes me think you are not interested in a rational dialogue about the issue.</em>\r\n\r\nWhen
    I started reading the page you cited it made my head swim. I did see that it was
    by a very liberal source, and I know how fluid they can be with the truth. But
    I may have made an error in citing Kleck. But even Diane Feinstein believes the
    same as me when it comes to her personal safety. \r\n\r\n<em>Also Dennis, if you
    act on your principle \u201Cyou will believe what you want to believe,\u201D then
    what is your point in posting your provocative graphics?</em>\r\n\r\nIt was just
    something I made, and liked. As stated before, there may have been an undercurrent
    of mischief involved, or I may have been simply tired and didn't think. It is
    too long ago now to say for sure. \r\n\r\n<em>So, let\u2019s talk about type and
    leave the soapbox at home please.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think there are any more
    sensitive topics to wade through, except maybe global warming , so I'm with you.\r\n;
    )"
  created: '2006-07-10 15:32:22'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Dennis, you may think the liberals run this place, but they usually don't
    bark unless someone throws something at them. Will you please for the love of
    pete stop posting things that cause such useless and negative waves!?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-10 16:30:06'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "OK. Mind you, sometimes it is unintended. I am just not very politically
    correct, no matter how I slice it.\r\n: )"
  created: '2006-07-10 16:33:26'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: PS- I would have been fine with the original delete if someone had just had
    the courtesy to tell me why, for a point of reference.
  created: '2006-07-10 16:34:43'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Hi Tiffany,\r\nWhat Dennis mentions here is what this should be all about.
    \ A place where people can post things, and through discussion, learn something
    about themselves.  The only way you might change a gun toting homophobe is to
    talk to the person about it, rather than censor him/her.\r\n\r\nIt might be hard
    for you, or others here, to realize, but some people at times don't know where
    the \"line\" is, there are a lot of different folk in this world.  I actually
    appreciate Dennis's random weird graphics.  At times, they are not the smoothest
    of things to swallow, politically, or visually, for some here.  But the guy is
    honest, has passion and is excited about type, photography, etc.  which is more
    than can be said for a lot of people.\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-07-10 17:24:03'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Come on fontplayer - you knew that would be provocative.\r\n\r\nDon't you
    think there's enough strife here already? And if not, have some mercy on the moderators.
    I moderate another board and it is challenging when people turn into the Human
    Torch.\r\n\r\nOn the plus side - nice tight group! :)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-07-10 17:28:09'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I guess what really bothers me is the fact that the majority of people don't
    enjoy it. And as for myself I'm with those who don't enjoy it. \r\n\r\nI agree
    that there cannot be education without discussion, but this isn't a general education
    forum, it is a type/typographic forum. "
  created: '2006-07-10 17:37:35'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Paul- Stuff like this is probably why I was always getting sent to the principal's
    office. \r\n\r\nTo be honest, I was very disappointed when my suggestion to discourage
    certain things wasn't implemented. So in a sense I was just playing within the
    rules. Some people seem to love discussing these things, but others just get too
    emotional. \r\n\r\nMaybe if I start thinking good thoughts and hope the badness
    goes away.\r\n; )\r\n\r\nTiff- I'm with you. (...this isn\u2019t a general education
    forum, it is a type/typographic forum)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-10 18:37:54'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "\"Type\" and \"general education\" go together, it's what type is supposed
    to do, educate.  Try to avoid it and someone else will put up another thing, and
    another thing.  \r\n\r\nType says \"stuff\", it's not all about the ligatures."
  created: '2006-07-10 18:46:59'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I'm sure I saw the principal just as much as you fontplayer. We weren't exactly
    friends\u2026 Back then there was corporal punishment so it was potentially a
    painful experience.\r\n\r\nGlad you got to the heart of the matter. I understand.
    But it's not your board, or mine.\r\n\r\nI highly recommend good thoughts. They're
    free\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-07-10 18:53:25'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>\u201CType\u201D and \u201Cgeneral education\u201D go together, it\u2019s
    what type is supposed to do, educate. </em>\r\n\r\nIn a history class they aren't
    going to teach formulas, are they. A general education about type is not a silly
    idea. Occasionally some subject may be tied into a type discussion in a relevant
    way, but just discussion for the sake of debate isn't necessarily productive on
    some levels, especially when they might deter some people vewing the fracas from
    getting involved at all. \r\n\r\nAnd rather then <strong>the noble route of simply
    admitting I am right</strong>, some people get upset by discussing things that
    don't fit the world view they have embraced.\r\n<strong>; )</strong>"
  created: '2006-07-10 19:01:24'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>Back then there was corporal punishment so it was potentially a painful
    experience.</em>\r\n\r\nMy worst memories were of Mr. Schmidt. He had holes drilled
    in his paddle to cut down on wind resistance. And back then I had almost no natural
    padding on my backside."
  created: '2006-07-10 19:04:57'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "My worst was Mr. Blanchfield, a former drill sergeant and minor league baseball
    player. And my principal in grade school.\r\n\r\nIn 6th grade I also had the classic
    Mr. Butts who liked to administer swats.\r\n\r\nWe would have to make the paddles
    in woodshop class that they were going to use on us.\r\n\r\nI guess there is such
    a thing as progess\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-07-10 19:54:36'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>Mr. Butts </em>\r\n\r\nHow appropriate. I'll bet 6th graders took advantage
    of the obvious behind his back.\r\n; )"
  created: '2006-07-10 20:41:45'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "No doubt. But he seemed to even the score somehow\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-07-10 21:01:20'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "I once had the misfortune of getting caught behind an incredibly inconsiderate
    driver who, ironically, had a bumper sticker on the rear of his vehicle which
    asked \"What Would Jesus Do?\" My first thought was, \"Jesus would use his turn
    signals, you moron!\"\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, one could equally well ask, \"What
    <em>wouldn't</em> Jesus do?\" I think I can say, with some degree of confidence,
    that Jesus would not bomb abortion clinics, vote for tax cuts at the expense of
    social programs, bash gays, attempt to criminalize immigration, carry a handgun
    or belong to the NRA..."
  created: '2006-07-10 22:10:15'
- author:
    name: Village
  body: If one cares to view Fontplayer's photo/type compositions, they can do so
    at his site. There is absolutely no reason for them to be posted on Typophile.
    Those compositions which use political, religious, or any other non-typographic
    texts are even more irrelevant to typographic discussions which take place on
    this board, (if it is possible for something to be doubly irrelevant.) Everyone
    is entitled to their opinions, and everyone is entitled to their art-making, but
    that doesn't mean that they should bring their opinions and art to Typophile.
  created: '2006-07-10 22:43:07'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "[Edit: self-censored]\r\n\r\nI said something inappropriate here, which I
    shouldn't have done. It's not because I personally consider my being moderator
    restricted to the Type Identification Board that this is perceived as such by
    the Typophile community. And we all know perception is everything.\r\n\r\nMy sincerest
    apologies to Fontplayer."
  created: '2006-07-10 23:46:49'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em><strong>the noble route of simply admitting I am right</strong></em>\r\n\r\nI
    believe it was Bertrand Russell who said, in effect, that isn't it an odd world
    in which we live, where intelligent people have doubts, and only the ignorant
    are cocksure?"
  created: '2006-07-10 23:52:48'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'OK. That''s it. Name calling has to stop here folks. '
  created: '2006-07-11 00:23:03'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'Dennis, as a general guideline (which is what I believe you are seeking):
    I don''t think anyone would object to your fontplays residing in <a href="http://typophile.com/blog/12014">your
    own blog</a>, but they serve little purpose in the General Discussion forum.'
  created: '2006-07-11 05:24:53'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Tiffany,\r\n\r\nPointing out an egregious instance of ignorance is not name-calling;
    it is pointing out an egregious instance of ignorance. Ignorance is no crime:
    we are all born ignorant, and we overcome it to greater or lesser degrees as we
    grow older. The title of this particular forum is \"General Discussions,\" which
    would seem to imply that give-and-take are the order of the day here. Persons
    who believe themselves to be in possession of Absolute Truth (that is, the Ignorant
    Militant) do not, by definition, allow much latitude for discussion: they wish
    to state their \"considerable opinion\" (thank you, William Golding) and have
    it affirmed, praised, perhaps even worshipped. That is <strong>not</strong> a
    discussion: it's a sermon.\r\n\r\nPeople who think they have all the answers aren't
    asking the right questions.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-11 23:52:32'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Nick, I think Tiff was referring to me. :^/ I got carried away in my indignation.
  created: '2006-07-11 23:59:54'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Yves,\r\n\r\nYou are indeed correct: Ms T IM'd me to point that out, and
    I apologized for the misunderstanding. Maintaining one's cool when confronted
    with self-righteous intransigence is difficult. When I am confronted with the
    situation, I try to remember two things: one, an old Italian proverb which proclaims
    \"the ignorant are never defeated in an argument\"; and the other, which I hear
    from a co-worker (although it's probably not original to him), which is \"the
    less I know, the smarter I feel.\" Or, to take the Bertrand Russell quote from
    another angle, the more you know, the more you know you don't know."
  created: '2006-07-12 00:13:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Oldnick, Russell was paraphrasing Socrates. In the Apology Plato reports
    that the Oracle at Delphi had said that Socrates was the wisest man in Athens.
    \r\n\r\nPuzzled by this, Socrates went around talking to others. After talking
    to one: \r\n\r\n\"I reflected as I walked away, Well, I am certainly wiser than
    this man. It is only too likely that neither of us has any knowledge to boast
    of, but he thinks that he knows something which he does not know, whereas I am
    quite conscious of my ignorance. At any rate it seems that I am wiser than he
    is to this small extent, that I do not think that I know what I do not know.\""
  created: '2006-07-12 00:25:03'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>I am wiser than he is to this small extent, that I do not think that
    I know what I do not know</em>\r\n\r\nPrecisely, William; thanks for the reference."
  created: '2006-07-12 00:28:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/illusion-of-knowledge_5045.png]'
  created: '2006-07-12 00:30:58'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: When I read these last thoughtful comments, I wish I were less a belligerent
    Belgian barbarian. :^P
  created: '2006-07-12 00:50:03'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "The moderators have emailed Fontplayer privately, but I think it's worth
    noting publicly that none of the moderators deleted this post.\r\n\r\nI think
    Stephen answered your other question about guidelines, but I think I should elaborate...\r\n\r\nIn
    our 6 year history we have only banned 1 or 2 accounts for persistently making
    libelous statements that could have put is in the path of a law suit or for posts
    that level personal attacks (name calling). We've removed probably a dozen posts
    or more for the same reasons, but they have all included a proper warning.\r\n\r\nAnd
    finally, some thoughts about General Discussions as it relates to your images.
    If you are truly looking for a critique of your use of type, then please post
    it in the Critique section. If you are announcing something newsworthy you can
    post it in News and Events. But if you're just promoting your products, it just
    doesn't fly very well to treat the General Discussions like a promotional outlet
    or a pulpit ( you can use the blog feature for that)."
  created: '2006-07-12 01:10:03'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "GROUP HUG!!\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Solid Creative</a>"
  created: '2006-07-12 01:39:27'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Where to start?...\r\n\r\nI had a very nice note from Tiffany (what a sweetie!)\r\n\r\nFirst,
    I guess: Please note when I said I was always right, I put a winking smiley face
    after it. In other words <strong>a joke!</strong>\r\nGet it? I guess I learned
    if you push the right button, some people see so red they wouldn't know a joke
    if it ran over them.\r\n\r\nI know I'm not a genius designer, and never will be.
    I feel I usually post my images because they seem to me to relate to the topic,
    like the cartoon font thread. In all cases I am just having fun. But to save the
    pros from the pain of seeing them, I will post just a link from now on.\r\n\r\nPlease
    note: I don't sell anything. I may seem to endorse free fonts, but that is because
    I have a big never-ending supply of them. But if someone wants to give a no-talent
    hack some nice commercial fonts, I'd be glad to promote them to the best of my
    limited ability.\r\n; )\r\n\r\nAnyway, I'll just say there are no hard feelings
    on my part and let it go at that.\r\n\r\nBest wishes..."
  children:
  - author:
      name: fontplayer
      picture: 111445
    body: "Oh, and I suppose I should say that although I can't apologize for my viewpoints,
      I will apologize for not correctly judging how worked up some people would get
      about my post. I have seen that if you say something wrong on certain topics,
      apparently you can only be sent to the far corner in the extreme right-wing
      bigot category. And I usually am just as comdemnatory of them as I am of liberals.\r\n\r\nEven
      if I feel something isn't right, I am not one to say what someone else has in
      their heart is worse than what might be found in mine. \r\n\r\nSo I don't get
      overly finger-pointy, unless I am joking or having fun. Mostly I am just trying
      to have fun. Life is tough enough.\r\n\r\nBut it does occur to me that I am
      sort of an odd man out here. Once upon a time there was a place where I felt
      like I belonged, but they decided I was fit to rejoin society. \r\n; )\r\n\r\nThe
      world changes. Life goes on..."
    created: '2006-07-12 03:37:34'
  created: '2006-07-12 03:22:22'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "My wife's family is Belgian, I go there often, but have never seen the word
    belligerent and Belgian in the same sentence!  There's always a first time for
    anything I guess.\r\n\r\nTo the trigger happy fontplayer, the Socrates quoting
    liberals, the fascism apologists, and, yes, the \"belligerent Belgian\" moderator,
    I say, please, bring all your politics over here from now on (and bring pictures
    of your pets to the party!):\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/20879?from=50&comments_per_page=50\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-12 03:23:40'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: ">GROUP HUG!!:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q8H5263jCGg&search=buy%20the%20world%20a%20coke"
  created: '2006-07-12 03:48:36'
- author:
    name: gthompson
    picture: 109676
  body: "I agree that since this is a site devoted to typography -- and despite the
    general discussions category -- that fontplayer's original post didn't belong
    here as did most of the \"discussion\" followed (everything after Tiffany's post).
    I do understand his thrill of achievement and the desire to tell everyone about
    it. His posting it here may have been mischevious, but not provocative.\r\n\r\nNevertheless
    we should be able to discuss personal beliefs without losing respect for the other
    person's beliefs whether we agree or not. Descending to personal attacks, snide
    retorts and the like doesn't constitute a discussion nor respect. You may not
    agree with someone else's views but you must respect their right to those views.
    \r\n\r\nAs for Kleck's study, most police departments don't breakdown shooting
    incidents in any meaningful way. Most don't even separate shooting deaths into
    categories (police vs. criminals, criminals vs. victims, victims vs. criminals)
    so there aren't really any good FBI statistics. Kleck's study, while flawed, is
    the most accurate one that addresses the issue until a better one comes along.
    Instead of criticizing the study, it would be useful to design a better study
    that would produce unbiased results. \r\n\r\nNo one mentioned fontlpayer's considering
    joining the police force -- deciding not to become a cop and be a designer instead
    (do you really meet a better class of people?) -- and I was surprised no one asked
    what \"acp\" meant. There was not one nice comment about his achievement -- 21
    in 2 in. is pretty good (standard load jacketed or target load wadcutters? Goldcup
    or ?). \r\n\r\nWe're all here because we share a common passion for typography
    that almost no one else does. Our other individual interests shouldn't separate
    us from each other. Incidently, I'm a fan of open wheel auto racing, French art
    deco furniture, and bagpipe music (tubas? are you kidding?).\r\n\r\nGeorge \r\nI
    felt bad because I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
  created: '2006-07-12 04:12:58'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>(standard load jacketed or target load wadcutters? Goldcup or ?)</em>\r\n\r\nI
    am almost afraid to answer, but here goes...Whatever standard jacket was on sale.
    Sig P220 that came with a one hole target. Weaver stance.\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019m
    a fan of ... bagpipe music</em>\r\n\r\nYou'll probably want to get on the waiting
    list for <strong><a href=\"http://www.fontplay.com/images/nonsolus.jpg\" target=\"_blank\">
    This </a></strong> (Warning: no-talent fontplay)\r\n\r\n<em>(tubas? are you kidding?).</em>\r\n\r\nWhen
    I wrote that I was reminiscing about an old LP I wish I had, by a conga player
    named Big Black that had him accompanied by only 3 tubas. It was so trippy.\r\n:
    )"
  created: '2006-07-12 04:35:53'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Edel- Re: \"I'd like to teach the world to sing in perfect harmony.\"\r\n\r\nSpeaking
    about a topic I know very well: Good Luck!"
  created: '2006-07-12 04:58:28'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "So, here's a liberal learning a few things about bullet jackets and so forth,
    it's what general discussion should be about.\r\n\r\n Why would a liberal care
    for such things?  Well, liberals plant little organic gardens so his family can
    eat fresh wholesome food without all those nasty corporate pesticides and such.
    \ Then one night along come a freakin' band of deer that lay waste to his succulent
    tomatoes and yummy lettuce.  You try the deer spray, and the flashing lights,
    and the sound machines, and nothing works.  So, the liberal starts thinking about
    the rifle, or how deer hunting may not be such a bad thing after all....  Relax,
    I haven't done anything...yet!\r\n\r\nBut, things like deer population control
    may not be an issue in San Francisco or Gent.  And, I take it back, he's Flemish,
    they ARE the belligerent barbarian Belgians.  Oh, oh, that could really set him
    off.  I've learned, don't mess with Belgian politics.   I kid, moderator, I kid
    :-))\r\n\r\nIncidentally, I\u2019m a fan of ballroom dance, knitting, extreme
    cagefighting, and I collect those bread package twist ties, I must have about
    2,300 by now!"
  created: '2006-07-12 06:20:25'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>\"Of all the Gauls, the Belgae are the bravest.\" (\"...Horum omnium
    fortissimi sunt Belgae...\").</em>\r\n\r\nI suppose I can't blame history for
    my behaviour? Or maybe Caesar? Oh well, it was worth a shot... \r\n\r\n:^P"
  created: '2006-07-12 07:16:06'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "There is a common sentiment that one ought to engage in discussions of principles
    and ideas rather than comment on the character of one's interlocutor. For the
    most part I tend to agree. But there is little point in engaging in such discussions
    when the character of the interlocutor leaves so little to be desired.\r\n\r\nFor
    a couple of years and up until a few months ago I looked forward to jumping to
    Typophile for a few minutes throughout the day to listen in and see what others
    were working on, to discover recent type and typographic news, and, from time
    to time, to venture off on tangents a little more personal, always grateful for
    the community here and the exchange taking place. Over the past few months, however,
    I find myself less and less willing to inflict on myself the distasteful experience
    of coming upon the contributions of a single voice.\r\n\r\nThis post, however,
    is not a request for censorship of any kind. It is simply a note of regret that
    what was, for me, an engaging and technically sophisticated forum on type and
    typography, a community which had and still has an amazing collection of people
    from a wide variety of backgrounds and with a wide variety of perspectives, a
    rare and much appreciated place I had grown fond of visiting \u2013 this is simply
    a note of regret that Typophile has become, for me, so often soured by a single
    voice that I rarely visit more than once or twice a week, only to quickly back
    away, again, and again, discouraged and, quite frankly, nauseated.\r\n\r\nFor
    any discussion to produce productive and engaging dialogue a certain level of
    tact seems necessary. All tact seems to have gone out the window these days at
    Typophile, including the hesitant yet overwhelming urge I felt to write this post.
    Would that I didn\u2019t feel the need to. Would that I had the wherewithal to
    restrain the urge to do so out of tact. Would that others had enough of the same
    to shut the fuck up."
  created: '2006-07-12 07:53:07'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Everyone:\r\n\r\nTake it easy. The world will not come to an end because
    of tactless behaviour on typophile. People are often tactless, rude, careless,
    without meaning to be so. Regret sets in later on. Or perhaps not. \r\n\r\nPart
    of living and breathing and participating in society is dealing with *all* forms
    of behaviour.  \r\n\r\nTypophile is operated and populated by people. That can't
    be changed, unfortunately. ;-)  "
  created: '2006-07-12 11:47:18'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>But there is little point in engaging in such discussions when the character
    of the interlocutor leaves so little to be desired.</em>\r\n\r\nOK, that does
    it. I've been called a lot of things here, but interlocutor is the last straw.
    \r\n\r\n<em>only to quickly back away, again, and again, discouraged and, quite
    frankly, nauseated.</em>\r\n\r\nOn a serious note, since nausea and whining is
    now replacing tolerance and diversity, I guess this is no place for me (I can't
    say I wasn't warned) It saddens me that I sadden you (what a bunch of babies we
    all are?). \r\n\r\nI am too rambunctious. It isn't the first time I've felt like
    a bull in a china shop, although usually they are more along the lines of a real
    china shop.\r\n; )\r\n\r\nThanks to everyone who have been so nice. If I ever
    need a type identified, I know where to come; As I've said before, you guys rock.
    \r\n\r\nElitists: As you were.\r\n\r\nBest wishes..."
  created: '2006-07-12 13:00:19'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "\"Jason\",\r\nYou see, not everyone is blessed with your poetic writing ability.
    \ Some people speak or write a certain way and you should be tolerant of their
    history, backgrounds, and viewpoints. After all, as far as I can tell, this is
    a public place.  Everyone has the right to speak their mind as well as the right
    to refrain from selecting certain threads.  There are a treasure trove of \"what's
    this font\" and \"what do you think of my logo\" places here, where you can go
    and impress everyone with your acquired knowledge.\r\n\r\nTo me \"Liberal\" has
    always stood for tolerance.  I think Typophile needs a lot more tolerance, of
    everyone's point of view.  Liberalism without tolerance leads to authoritarianism
    and censorship. It has given us Lenin, Stalin, Mao, Castro, Che, Chavez, etc.
    \ Many of these were educated elitists who all \"knew\" what was right for their
    people, if they just followed the rules and learned to \"shut the fuck up\", as
    you so eloquently put it.\r\n\r\nER"
  created: '2006-07-12 16:33:21'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "If anyone has a grasp on objective reality please fill me in.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-07-12 19:41:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">please fill me in\r\n\r\nQuite a bit of dirt. Lots of water. Sweat. Some
    kisses. "
  created: '2006-07-12 20:02:47'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Thanks William - I was feeling so subjective\u2026 :)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-07-12 20:09:56'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "\u201CER\u201C\r\n\r\nI think on the contrary that what Jason wrote was very
    thoughtfully phrased (apart from the last sentence, but we have Typophile's automated
    auto-censoring thingie to take care of that :-). All he did was describing his
    personal experience with Typophile and how it has been tainted by the postings
    of a specific member. He is entitled to voice his concern, just like any other
    member.\r\n\r\nAnd frankly you've got your \"intolerance\" argument back to front.
    A tolerant person can't be anything but intolerant for intolerance. That's a classic
    case of double negation. Accusing someone of being intolerant because he/she doesn't
    abide intolerance is pretty ridiculous, isn't it?\r\n\r\nFurthermore, I think
    Typophile as a community is being <em>very</em> tolerant. If that weren't the
    case, I don't see how this situation could've come this far."
  created: '2006-07-12 22:21:02'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Yves, \r\nI've seen one too many long and thoughtful comments posted here
    end with a nice big \"fuck you\" sentence, which negates all the thought put into
    the entire post in my view.\r\n\r\nRather than get censored, what some people
    get are personal attacks, one is told that their ideas are nauseating, that they
    make people feel like puking, or that they are untalented hacks (something which
    you have fortunately edited, but unfortunately stays singed in people's minds.)\r\n\r\nI
    don't believe the whole intolerance thing is ridiculous.  One can disagree with
    intolerance and have a reasoned argument with the person, try to change their
    mind, educate, etc.  At some point, yes, you let go and have no tolerance for
    the person.  But, right off the bat this turned into a pile up, instead of a discussion.
    \  I happen to be fairly liberal, but I have many conservative acquaintances.
    \ Many are actually very well meaning. Their views don't come from hatred or bigotry
    at all, but from biography and personal beliefs.  I talk to them about these issues,
    I don't start calling them names.\r\n\r\nI mean, this guy put up a target that
    he took some shots at and everyone gets wacky, they started talking about bombing
    abortion clinics, on and on.  I just ask for some patience from people and not
    assume because someone owns a gun, or likes to hunt, or is pro life, that they
    are subhuman or that they don't belong here.  Or, as you also edited, can't make
    beautiful art.  I could point out dozens of right leaning artists throughout history
    that have made great work.\r\n\r\nAnd I was in Ghent four weeks ago, no Barbarians
    in sight, only the queue to see the Van Eyck altar piece.  Now, they were belligerent!
    \ It's really a beautiful city, everyone should visit, but don't speak French
    when you're there :-)"
  created: '2006-07-12 23:13:38'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>I just ask for some patience from people and not assume because someone
    owns a gun, or likes to hunt, or is pro life, that they are subhuman or that they
    don\u2019t belong here.</em>\r\n\r\nNot subhuman (an irremedial condition): simply
    close-minded (an eminently remedial condition). And, please, spare us the \"pro-life\"
    label: the proper term is \"anti-abortion.\" If so-called pro-lifers were <em>really</em>
    pro-life, they wouldn't support the death penalty (which far too many of them
    do). And if \"defenders of traditional marriage\" were <em>really</em> serious
    about defending traditional marriage, they'd push for a constitutional amendment,
    not to prevent gays from entering into committed relationships with the legal
    benefits thereunto appertaining, but to outlaw divorce, which terminates fully
    half of all the marriages in the United States (see how far <em>that</em> gets).\r\n\r\nThe
    point, I believe, which many of us here are trying to make is that hatred and
    intolerance, dressed up in high-falutin' names, are still hatred and intolerance.
    Can't we all just get along?"
  created: '2006-07-13 00:32:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I don't see anywhere in this thread where Dennis has been intolerant or advocated
    intolerance. He is expressing views that people disagree with, including me, but
    that's not that same as intolerance. Is there something I'm not getting?\r\n\r\nI
    do agree with Stephen and Tiffany that the 'blog' is the right place for the 'fontplays'--not
    the general discussions. "
  created: '2006-07-13 00:46:37'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "William, an image, which I don't recall seeing even, was deleted and that
    is why this thread began. I believe the intolerance, however, is in regards to
    several things which have been said over the last few months. \r\n\r\nI say we
    let this thread float away and start a thread about Adrian Frutiger."
  created: '2006-07-13 01:15:39'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Tiff nails it on the head. This is not an isolated incident, but the culmination
    of several weeks and months of repeated incidents.\r\n\r\nI believe what we have
    witnessed here is a perfect example of group dynamism at work. Like it or not,
    Typophile is first and foremost a community, made up of living and breathing individuals.
    One of the characteristics of such a community is that it is governed by certain
    unwritten rules. For example a community will always be in flux, but at the same
    time try to reach a state of equilibrum. Every individual joining that community
    will disrupt that balance, whereafter the community will attempt to regain a new
    state of equilibrum.\r\n\r\nIf the balance is too severely disrupted, the rest
    of the community will try to adapt. When it fails to achieve that in the usual
    manner, it is to be expected that other members will re-evaluate the community
    they belong to and their place in it. Some will leave, as we have unfortunately
    witnessed a little while ago when a most valued member decided to terminate his
    membership. Others will react and try to rectify the situation in more drastic
    ways by going head-to-head with the perceived disruptive element. As such, this
    thread is the result of something that has been building up for the last few weeks
    and months.\r\n\r\nWe have to be realistic and accept that not everybody fits
    in just any community. That is the nature of the beast. Again, nobody was censored
    nor forced out. Joining and leaving Typophile is a personal decision."
  created: '2006-07-13 08:44:18'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>(...) or that they are untalented hacks (something which you have fortunately
    edited, but unfortunately stays singed in people\u2019s minds.)</em>\r\n\r\nAllow
    me to quote Zizou: I sincerely apologise for making that remark as it was unbecoming
    with regards to my status as a moderator, but I don't <em>regret</em> it. Fortunately
    off-board messages of support from several members make it a tad easier for me
    to bear the singeing."
  created: '2006-07-13 09:24:07'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Okay, now you've got me confused. In what way are you apologizing? An apology
    is usually synonymous with saying you're sorry - that is, that you regret something
    you said or did. Sometimes a person apologizes for an unintended *effect* of their
    actions without regretting the action itself, but you don't seem to be doing that.\r\n\r\nNot
    trying to start another argument, just confused, honest.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-07-13 09:48:00'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "I was just alluding to the seemingly unintelligible and ambiguous reply from
    Zinedine Zidane in <a href=\"http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/football/world_cup_2006/teams/france/5174758.stm\">his
    interview on French telly last night</a>. The humour got lost in the translation;
    I guess I should've linked.\r\n\r\nI'm sometimes in a very dichotomous situation,
    being a moderator <em>and</em> a human being; it's not easy, especially since
    my personal situation makes me extremely sensitive to certain remarks (my sister
    is a lesbian and my sister-in-law half Italian, half Moroccan, which make them
    perfect targets for the growing extreme right wing movement in Flanders).\r\n\r\nSo,
    to put my quote into context -- as a moderator I apologise, but as a human being
    I don't regret it because sooner or later it simply <em>had</em> to happen. As
    we're usually pussyfooting around all the time trying to not offend anyone ourselves,
    the offenders get away with it and the offended can eat it.\r\n\r\nWhatever, I'll
    shut up and retreat into self-imposed exile to the Type Identification Board now.
    This section simply doesn't agree with me."
  created: '2006-07-13 12:56:59'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Yves,\r\nI hear you're pretty good, but, really, you are no Zidane! \r\n\r\nOh,
    and you're right, I'm tired of the \"pussyfooting\" too.  If you're a hack, we're
    coming after you, you've been warned.  Students included!  Toughen up kids."
  created: '2006-07-13 16:22:24'
date: '2006-07-09 01:00:03'
node_type: forum
title: Request to moderator

---
