---
author:
  name: cosmorphis
body: I am a young adjunct professor at a community college, and today I was telling
  my class about the importance of using curly quotes or typographer's quotes. Well,
  one of my students said that she was told by a 'prestige designer' to always flip
  the quotes so the heavy sides are on top. Then another student said she was told
  to flip the quotes so the heavy sides are on the bottom. I have looked through my
  books and searched the internet for an answer because I have never heard this before.
  Is there any truth in what they are saying? I would appreciate any input on this
  because it is mind boggling. I've attached a GIF to demonstrate what they are referring
  to.
comments:
- author:
    name: cosmorphis
  body: "There's the attachment.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/typographersQuotes_3636.gif]"
  created: '2006-07-11 05:58:41'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "The \"prestigious designer\" is filling your students head with lies. The
    default way is the correct way.\r\n\r\n(for those of you who saw my awful spelling
    mistake it is late and i'm tired.)"
  created: '2006-07-11 06:01:58'
- author:
    name: cosmorphis
  body: So this doesn't go back to any ancient tradition or anything correct? I'm
    just confused as of why he would make up something so bizarre.
  created: '2006-07-11 06:10:10'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: I've never heard anything of the sort, Tiff is right.
  created: '2006-07-11 06:12:45'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Hi Billy\r\n\r\nNothing quite so mind-boggling as students using 'prestigious'
    but <strong> anonymous </strong> sources to introduce confusion and doubt into
    the classroom? It happens all the time. \r\n\r\nWhen I asked a student last year
    if she'd had any design tutor feedback on her (truly execrable and off-brief)
    work, she told me in all seriousness '...but my mum thinks it's great!'\r\n\r\nMiss
    Tiffany is right; the default version above is the correct way of setting true
    quotes.\r\n\r\nIf your students reckon they know more about setting type correctly
    than you do, then you could try running <a href=\"http://www.thinkingwithtype.com/\">Marian
    Bantjes type test</a> on 'em. \r\n\r\nIt includes the following question\r\n\r\n<cite>19.
    True quotes\r\na. always look like little sixes and nines\r\nb. have different
    looking opening and closing quotes\r\nc. are always curly\r\nd. are straight up
    and down</cite>\r\n\r\nWhich, although it doesn't provide a straight answer to
    your question, should reveal enough of your students ignorance to allow some clarification
    and correction to occur. "
  created: '2006-07-11 08:18:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Verdana quotes are top heavy.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Verdana_Quotes_4268.png]\r\n\r\nI
    guess you can do what you like but I find anything other than sixes and nines
    (or at the very least quotes which are rotationally symmetrical) look odd."
  created: '2006-07-11 09:36:18'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "One thing to note: the <em>default</em> may change according to the language\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quotation_mark"
  created: '2006-07-11 11:48:59'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Weird -- the Dutch quotation marks presented as the "standard" in the wiki
    entry are in fact the archaic form.
  created: '2006-07-11 12:12:24'
- author:
    name: Matt Squire
  body: "Hi there, \r\n\r\nThere is a book called The elements of typorgraphic Style,
    which I am sure some of the regulars are aware of. On pages 86/87, Robert Bringhurst
    goes into detail about what quotation marks should be used when and where. I take
    it you are after the British/American version in which case you already have your
    answer. But it is interesting to know that other countries use them quite differently,
    SWeden for instance has them set \u201C \u201C, so the same mark used twice, in
    Germany the first quote mark is set on the Baseline. And so on.. \r\n\r\nIf you
    want to impress your students then digest this book. Its a good source of details
    to keep them quiet,\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2006-07-11 12:52:12'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: We should note as Verdana shows above that some fonts only have top heavy
    quotes.
  created: '2006-07-11 13:02:53'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Swedish and Finnish use the right side quotes, not the left ones.\r\n\r\n\u201DJag
    tycker om dig, Pernilla\u201D, sade Jakob.\r\n\r\n\u201DGroteskia!\u201D, \xE4l\xE4hti
    Chris.\r\n\r\n\xBBMink\xE4 taakseen j\xE4tt\xE4\xE4, sen edest\xE4\xE4n l\xF6yt\xE4\xE4.\xBB\r\n\r\nSingle
    ones can also be used."
  created: '2006-07-11 13:59:54'
- author:
    name: svenni
    picture: 110438
  body: "Icelandic quotes look like this:\r\n<strong>\u201ESvona l\xEDtur \xFEetta
    \xFAt\u201C </strong>"
  created: '2006-07-11 14:37:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think the point is that the type designer should be relied upon to provide
    proper quotes as well as allowance for language differences. Good OpenType fonts
    with a decent character set have the needed glyphs to support language variations.
    The \u201Cprestigious designers\u201D who are infallable only in their own minds,
    are either wrong or misquoted by young students.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: Tiff,
    I liked your spelling error better so I will leave mine in :-)"
  created: '2006-07-11 14:54:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">We should note as Verdana shows above that some fonts only have top heavy
    quotes.\r\n\r\nIt is written - \"trust thy type designer\"  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-11 14:57:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yes Si, that Mathew guy might know a thing or two about type :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-11 14:59:40'
- author:
    name: elScorcho
  body: "In Dutch it should be as this:\r\n\r\nJan zei: &bdquo;Piet komt niet.&rdquo;\r\nJan
    vroeg: &bdquo;Komt Piet niet?&rdquo;\r\nZei Jan: &bdquo;Piet komt niet.&rdquo;?\r\n&bdquo;Piet
    komt niet&rdquo;, zei Jan.\r\n&bdquo;Komt Piet niet?&rdquo;, vroeg Jan.\r\n&bdquo;Piet&rdquo;,
    zei Jan, &bdquo;komt niet.&rdquo;\r\n&bdquo;Piet,&rdquo; zei Jan, &bdquo;je moet
    meteen komen.&rdquo;\r\n\r\nVroeg Jan: &bdquo;Komt Piet niet?&rdquo;\r\nRoep niet
    de hele tijd: &bdquo;Piet komt niet!&rdquo;\r\nJan zei: &bdquo;Piet komt niet.&rdquo;\r\n\r\n(At
    least that's what they've taught me at school.)"
  created: '2006-07-11 15:10:14'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: 'While you are teaching them about quotes it wouldn''t be a bad idea to have
    them in the practice of using the key commands for single and double quotations.
    I know it''s not as common now but sometimes the default keyboard symbol will
    give you incorrect quotations. '
  created: '2006-07-11 15:23:40'
- author:
    name: Matt Squire
  body: "It might also be a good thing to teach them about when to use single and
    double quote marks. In my experience this always brings up great creative arguments
    about rules and such. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-11 15:56:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Heavy-side up is the American way, from Benton (ATF Garamond) to Licko (Mrs
    Eaves, Filosofia, etc). No lies.\r\n\r\nHowever, it will become obselete as multi-encoded
    OTF fonts become the norm, which have to satisfy Europeans who are not so ambivalent
    about their quote-mark style.\r\n\r\nOn a related note, the standard for the 'postrophe
    has changed thanks to \"smart\" layout software, which substitutes the \"wrong\"
    version."
  created: '2006-07-11 17:27:28'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Nick, in my version of Mrs. Eaves and Filosofia (both PS) the open quotes
    are heavy-down and the end-quotes are heavy-up. Did I misunderstand you?
  created: '2006-07-11 17:43:02'
- author:
    name: gene ullery-smith
  body: I always assumed that the difference in open and closed quotes had its roots
    in calligarphic writing. That is when one draws an open quote with a nib at 45
    degrees to the base line one ends up with a heavy down quote. Conversely, when
    draws a closed quote with the same pen the result is top heavy. Seems logical
    but perhaps its not factual - could any calligraphy experts shed light?
  created: '2006-07-11 18:19:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think you are right about the cxalligraphic base but more like 30 degrees
    angle (depending on the writing style).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-11 18:24:53'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Typographers' quotes are \"tradition\". At least for the English, Canadians
    and, even those that say \"zee\" rather than \"zed\".\r\n\r\nHand set type was
    merely the comma(s) set \"nick down\" rather than \"nick up\". Hopefully I do
    not have to give a type anatomy lesson. This saved on matrices, spared room in
    the case for other needed characters. And frankly gives the written language a
    bit of extra zest. \r\n\r\nNaturally Monotype was not so lucky. They had to cut
    punches for both as did Linotype.\r\n\r\nTradition is a \"good thing\".\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2006-07-11 19:55:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Even Giampa is a good thing :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-11 19:58:21'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Chris\r\n\r\n\"Even Giampa is a good thing :-)\"\r\n\r\nYou Greeks always
    know how to make Italians blush! \r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2006-07-11 20:22:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I'll break some dishes for you!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-11 20:26:32'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Folks,\r\n\r\nI should point out that punches were cut for the apostrophe
    which made the right hand quote marks or mark (quote within a quote, English vs
    American bla bla). The left quote marks were upside down comma(s), (quote within
    a quote, English vs American bla bla) \r\n\r\nShould I have assumed you all knew
    that bla bla apostraphe stuff, because I did.\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2006-07-11 20:40:53'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\n\"I\u2019ll break some dishes for you!\"\r\n\r\nWe should break
    some bread and drink some beer before breaking anything else such as glasses at
    the end of the evening.\r\n\r\nRemember I crewed on a Greek tramp steam ship,
    we were stuck drinking from bottles seveal days out of harbour. Poor us.\r\n\r\nGiampa\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-11 20:45:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Gerald,\r\nWill you be at TypeCon Boston in August?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-11 20:48:09'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nTypeCon, Type \"Con\". Is this a setup, is Hrant planning to
    beat me up? August, August what, where and when? You want to meet Joe Lyons?\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2006-07-11 21:02:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!!\r\nI don't think Hrant can make it this year :-)\r\n\r\nHere is the
    link:\r\n\r\nTypeCon2006: http://www.typecon.com\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: would
    Joe Lyons consider meeting me? :-)"
  created: '2006-07-11 22:06:26'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I don't think Hrant is attending this year. Hrant?
  created: '2006-07-11 22:19:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, in my version of Mrs. Eaves and Filosofia (both PS) the open quotes
    are heavy-down and the end-quotes are heavy-up. Did I misunderstand you?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm
    going by the 2002 Emigre catalog. Maybe they've started doing it the normal way
    since then."
  created: '2006-07-11 22:32:23'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: How bizarre. I'm going to have to dig through and look for that one. Thanks
    for pointing it out.
  created: '2006-07-11 23:02:51'
- author:
    name: liquisoft
    picture: 111679
  body: "Lies and idiocy.\r\n\r\n+\r\nRyan Ford"
  created: '2006-07-12 00:23:59'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nNot many know of Joe Lyons \"Principia Typographia\", approximately
    700 pages each volume of which there are three. Too laborious for most, as a consequence,
    it was not a best seller.\r\n\r\nJoe Lyons would love to meet you.\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2006-07-12 00:31:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "So it is not the Prime Minister of Australia then? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nSounds
    like a better read than Principia Mathematica :-)"
  created: '2006-07-12 00:34:33'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nBertand Russel's \"Principia Mathematica\" was discredited
    by Alfred North Whitehead even though he collaborated on \"Principia Mathematica\".\r\n\r\nFoolish
    me, I read it even knowing it was wrong. \"Principia Typographia\" on the other
    hand is a very important work, that is, assuming typography is important. At least,
    that is what I tell Joe.\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2006-07-12 00:50:50'
- author:
    name: cosmorphis
  body: "I noticed this while having dinner.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/louisiana_hot_sauce_6704.jpg]"
  created: '2006-07-12 00:58:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess the perfect hot sauce has less than perfect quotes :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS:
    Authentic \"Louisiana Hotsauce\": made in Mason Ohio?"
  created: '2006-07-12 03:24:24'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: There's a store near here that has quotes on their exterior sign like that.
    It's unfortunate because it's rather large.
  created: '2006-07-13 03:31:29'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "I haven't been around much lately, and how odd, on the first typophile thread
    I read, to find myself mentioned. Thanks, Ben. Note to Steve Job, I may be assuming
    on your seeming assumption that \"sixes and nines\" is the correct answer to my
    test question. In fact, in my books, the correct answer is \r\n<i>b. have different
    looking opening and closing quotes</i>\r\n\r\nwhich of course covers Verdana (as
    well as this bizarre little practice of flipping the quotation marks around, which
    is a new one one me!).\r\n\r\nAttached is a snippet from my teaching notes I give
    my students.\r\n(And for what it's worth, I teach them about proper usage of both
    quotes and apostrophes too.)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/truequotes_5302.jpg]\r\n\r\n-
    marian"
  created: '2006-07-13 16:07:16'
- author:
    name: russ
  body: I remember years ago in English class I used to do 99 and 66, which was picked
    up on by the teacher and swiftly corrected to 66 and 99! (Guess it would have
    fine if I was writing backwards!)
  created: '2006-07-13 16:41:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The original question was \"Is there any truth\" [in the merit of heavy-side-up
    quote marks].\r\n\r\nObviously, standard practice won't answer that. But it should
    be pointed out that typography is about standards, not rules.\r\n\r\nSo, you can
    look at what's out there in the media and the specimen books, and 99.999% of English
    setting will be \"default\", or \"standard\" quotes. But this was a question to
    typophiles. Most of whom are conservative (it comes with the territory); but some
    typographers -- prestige or otherwise -- may want to try something different and
    daring (not quite Raygun, but nevermind). And it will be considered, rather than
    a mistake. That goes for the hot sauce package as well as this, from Emigre's
    <em>Mrs Eaves.</em> specimen booklet of 1996.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MrsE_4398.jpg]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: filip blazek
      picture: 110363
    body: "There is another aspect of non standard quotation marks. If a common text
      with quotes is displayed in Verdana, it looks good in English, but inadequately
      in German. It looks better when the German end quote is replaced by the English
      end quote. But that means one must manualy replace all the quotes in a document.
      When the font is changed, the qoutation marks would be wrong. \r\nI think designers
      should design standard quotes in every multilingual typefaces to allow the majority
      of users to use particular way of quoting. If one wants to create alternative
      forms of quotes, why not to create \"quotedblleft.alt\" glyph? There is even
      a Unicode position for \"DOUBLE HIGH-REVERSED-9 QUOTATION MARK\" at 201F.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/quot-marks_3888.gif]"
    created: '2006-07-14 17:26:41'
  created: '2006-07-13 17:29:32'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "It is a nice \u201Ccelebratory\u201D touch for display type.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-07-13 18:39:33'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "I understand the original question came from a students confusion over conflicting
    advice; Billy doesn't mention what the subject is in his class, but I would guess
    that he is not teaching typographers, typophiles or prestige designers (who maybe
    learnt the rules before setting out to systematically break them).\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    he is teaching students. Misinformation and lack of practice are what most students
    bring to class; it's their function and they needn't be blamed for it, just corrected
    wherever possible.\r\n\r\nThe original question was also not about 'merit' or
    variable practice \u2013 the student said they had been told to <strong>always</strong>
    flip the quote marks. This is not accepted practice; to suggest otherwise is simply
    to indulge wrongheadedness.\r\n\r\nMarian \u2013 I hope you didn't mind. I thought
    the answer was yours to give away, so I didn't pre-empt it. I owe you an apology
    for misspelling your name! ooops sorry."
  created: '2006-07-14 00:22:45'
- author:
    name: onine
  body: "I hope this isn\u2019t considered to be too much of a hijack but this thread
    seemed like a good place to pose this question which has bothered me for a while.\r\n\r\nOk,
    so I know a lot of programs will change a prime into \u2018 or \u2019 and an  inch
    symbol into \u201C or \u201D. But I do get tired of typing Alt+0145 (etc) into
    progs which don\u2019t recognise that I\u2019m trying to write an inverted comma
    or apostrophe... ...or an ellipsis for that matter...\r\n\r\n...so, do any of
    you typophiles know how I can change the keys 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 etc. to output
    \u2018, \u2019, \u201C, \u201D, \u2013, \u2014 etc?\r\n\r\nAlso, am I right in
    thinking that 1234567890 are \u201Cspare\u201D keys since I have two of each of
    them (my keyboard has a number pad on the right)?\r\n\r\nHow do you guys deal
    with this problem daily? Have configured your keyboards differently to the default
    or do you only use software that  \u201Cknows\u201D what you are trying to type?
    Or am I just missing something? Thanks for any input! "
  created: '2006-07-14 01:25:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The original question was also not about \u2018merit\u2019 or variable
    practice</em>\r\n\r\nActually, the question was: \"Is there any truth in what
    they are saying?\" -- and it's been answered that yes there is indeed some truth
    in it, with reference to typefaces by Benton, Licko, and Carter, not to mention
    a few of my own.\r\n\r\nDeviations from the norm exist, and they are acceptable:
    it's a truth that students should be able to handle."
  created: '2006-07-14 03:49:11'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "Ben, thx, I didn't mind at all.\r\n\r\nNick, um ... er ... while I can see
    that some typefaces may have been designed with the quotation marks flipped, I
    really would never encourage people to flip them themseleves, let alone to suggest
    that to do so would be \"correct.\" \r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2006-07-14 06:35:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I really would never encourage people to flip them themseleves, let alone
    to suggest that to do so would be \u201Ccorrect.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nI would always
    encourage students to consider the unorthodox design solution. \r\nBut it would
    be tempting to give billy's smart alec \"prestige designer told me\" students
    a good whack with a pica rule.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-14 07:45:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...good whack with a pica rule.\"\r\n\r\nIn this day and age you might
    have to replace that pica rule with something more available--perhaps \" a good
    whack with a Wacam Tablet\" :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-14 12:48:33'
- author:
    name: russ
  body: But surely you would rather damage a pica rule than a Wacom *shock horror*
  created: '2006-07-14 15:41:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">In this day and age you might have to replace that pica rule with something
    more available\r\n\r\nI'd suggest these alternative punishments...\r\n\r\na. scratch
    their iPod \r\nb. confiscate their hoodie\r\nc. criticize their myspace profile"
  created: '2006-07-14 15:48:32'
- author:
    name: russ
  body: "If you're in the UK you could give them an ASBO (anti-social behaviour order)...
    it's all the rage over here!\r\n\r\nThe iPod sratching may work best though!"
  created: '2006-07-14 15:52:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think perhaps ereasing the iPod and replacing the student's music with
    \"curly quotes\" lectures and a Bringhurst talking Book might be a solution as
    well :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-14 16:25:31'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I have a pica pole still. Metal, still sharp. If you want to borrow it. ;^)
  created: '2006-07-14 16:37:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I think designers should design standard quotes in every multilingual typefaces
    to allow the majority of users to use particular way of quoting.\"\r\n\r\nAbsolutely.
    \ There should be no need for the user to fight with work-arounds.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-14 17:48:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>If a common text with quotes is displayed in Verdana, it looks good in
    English, but inadequately in German.</em>\r\n\r\nAs I pointed out, Europeans are
    less tolerant of variety in their quotes than Americans -- but there is actually
    an aesthetic reason, because the \"high reversed 9 quote\" provides symmetry in
    the English quote position (see hot sauce package), but not in German \"low\"
    position.\r\n\r\n<em>There is even a Unicode position for \u201CDOUBLE HIGH-REVERSED-9
    QUOTATION MARK\u201D at 201F.</em>\r\n\r\nThat doesn't make sense, because it
    is not a different character, just an alternate glyph, AFAIK.\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-14 17:49:04'
- author:
    name: cosmorphis
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Untitled-1_5257.gif]\r\n\r\nHere's another.
    It's from the AIGA Standard Form of Agreement for Design Services. The PDF said
    the font was Filosofia so I Googled it and found http://www.emigre.com/ot.php?id=97.
    I then looked through the specimen guides and that first quote that is nick up
    doesn't exist! What's the deal here. This issue is still driving me nuts."
  created: '2006-07-30 19:07:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "This came out earlier in the thread, in a few exchanges between Tiffany and
    myself.\r\nAs I understand it, some Emigre fonts used to have heavy-side-up left
    quotes, but the foundry has since switched over to the more usual variety, to
    accomodate European languages, which is something that today's OpenType fonts
    are expected to do.\r\n\r\nSo that's an historic AIGA document that you have."
  created: '2006-07-30 19:53:58'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "if anyone is interested: writing french, high- or swiss-german in switzerland
    you quote like \xABthis\xBB (guillemets without spaces), while in france, you
    quote like \xAB this \xBB (guillemets with spaces). im only 95% sure about the
    france parr, but 100% about the swiss part."
  created: '2006-07-30 19:57:15'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I notice that Skia (also by M. Carter), too, has top-heavy opening quotes...
  created: '2006-08-09 22:03:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\u201Cprestige designer told me\u201D \r\n\r\nBut wasn't that student refering
    to \"Freddy Prestige\" the guy who works the night shift at the Kinkos in Bayone
    New Jersey?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-15 16:36:49'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "another short question regarding quotation marks:\r\n\r\nim pretty sure bringhurst
    would give me an answer, but i cant find it right now when i'd need it the first
    time. i know what to do in german texts, but right now i have to make a card with
    english text in which the client sets some words bold - including one inside quotation
    marks. all text set in corpid regular 10pt, its only a gift card not a text-spread
    or such.\r\n\r\nfirst question: would you set the quotation marks to bold, too?\r\nsecond
    question: if i use italic instead of bold, what then?\r\n\r\nmy own visually guided
    answers:\r\n1. no, it looks worse\r\n2. yes, it looks better.\r\n\r\nthanks!"
  created: '2006-08-23 21:27:26'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: If the text is the only thing in the quotes, they can follow the weight/style
    of the text. If there are unbolded/italic words in the quotes, then both quotes
    should follow the normal text style.
  created: '2006-08-23 21:53:15'
date: '2006-07-11 05:57:09'
title: Typographer's Quotes

---
