---
author:
  name: dot dot dot
body: "I need to buy Sabon as an opne type font and I see Adobe lists what they call
  a standard family package for $99. Over at Fonts.com the Monotype Pro package lists
  for $158. I thought the price difference might be due to the fact that the Adobe
  set only has small caps in the roman and that perhaps the Monotype edition may have
  small caps in all the families. But I checked and this is not the case. \r\n\r\nAnd
  I see the Monotype says it's a semi bold while Adobe says their's is bold.\r\n\r\nDoes
  anyone have any idea why the price difference? Am I getting the same font and cut
  with both packages?\r\n\r\nThanks for any help you can offer.\r\n\r\nJohn"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'Keep in mind there are three different cuts of <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=verity.search&searchstr=Sabon">Sabon</a>.
    Monotype Sabon, Linotype Sabon, and the most recent digitization: <a href="http://www.linotype.com/58170/sabonnextcdformacandpc-compilation.html">Sabon
    Next</a>'
  created: '2006-07-12 20:52:06'
- author:
    name: dot dot dot
  body: "OK. Is there any consensus on one cut being better than the other? And where
    would the Adobe version fit in? I'd rather get the bast version for setting books
    regardless of the price.\r\n\r\nAnd I don't see the Next version in an open type
    version which rules it out."
  created: '2006-07-12 21:24:53'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Adobe sells the Linotype version -- as do FontShop, MyFonts, Phil's Fonts,
    and Fonts.com.\r\n\r\nI can't speak to the design differences between the MT and
    LT versions as I haven't used and compared them. Hopefully someone can chime in
    there."
  created: '2006-07-12 21:29:16'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I've worked with Sabon Next and found it to be quite nice. However, I've not
    worked with the others so perhaps I can't chime in properly. However, <a href="http://www.google.com/search?client=safari&rls=en&q=%22sabon+next%22+site:typophile.com&ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8">you
    might find one of these threads useful.</a>
  created: '2006-07-12 21:40:45'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: The biggest problem with Sabon Next is that it's only available as a $995
    collection. I'm all for selling packages over single weights (Veer manages this
    pretty well) but I think that sort of cost turns away a lot of otherwise interested
    buyers. Lino could split it up into more manageable $300 packages.
  created: '2006-07-12 23:53:09'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I''d agree that they are proably missing out on many customers in only selling
    as one package. '
  created: '2006-07-13 00:02:53'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Why not try Van Bronkhorst's MVB Verdigris:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.mvbfonts.com/html/fonts/verdigris/pk_verdigris.htm\r\n\r\nIt's
    an amazingly good text face, similar to Sabon, with some even considering it a
    better achievement, though without Sabon Verdigris would not exist.\r\n\r\nIn
    any case, Verdigris is certainly worth looking into. In terms of price, it's an
    insane value. You get all the bells and whistles except for swashes and ornaments,
    which Bronkhorst claimed he wanted to avoid, anyway. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Turning
    body: 'er? Who are these people who consider it a better achievement? If you come
      out with a comment like this actually back it up with some facts. '
    created: '2006-07-13 17:52:24'
  created: '2006-07-13 05:26:01'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: I own a license. I agree. The only problem is, there's no OpenType version
    available (yet) and John specifically asked for it.
  created: '2006-07-13 15:33:34'
- author:
    name: dot dot dot
  body: "Thanks for all the comments. I'd love to go with the Sabon Next but the price
    is beyond the budget. The specs call for Sabon and the deadline approaches so
    I'm just going to pick it up from Linotype and get to work.\r\n\r\nI guess I'm
    going to have think about upgrading my Fontlab and start to convert my Type 1
    fonts to OpenType. But that's another discussion entirely..."
  created: '2006-07-13 16:36:59'
- author:
    name: istr
  body: "The Difference between the MT pro and all other \"classical\" Sabon variants
    including MT Sabon (not Sabon next, which is in fact a different type face) is
    the number of characters included.\r\nFor example, it includes the ligatures \"ffi\"
    and \"ffl\". These are not available within LT Sabon, Adobe Sabon or MT Sabon.\r\nIf
    you have a look at the character maps (e.g. at fonts.com -> search for \"Sabon
    Pro\" -> \"Try first - click here\" -> \"Character Map\") you will see the difference."
  created: '2007-02-16 20:53:14'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>I guess I\u2019m going to have think about upgrading my Fontlab and
    start to convert my Type 1 fonts to OpenType. But that\u2019s another discussion
    entirely\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nI'll bet you'll start thinking twice about this being
    a good idea, as soon as you try converting the first type family..."
  created: '2007-02-17 02:02:38'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "You need to check of course, but as I remember, the Monotype EULA doesn't
    permit the end user to modify the font for his/her own use. Adobe on the other
    hand, does. It is not hard to make ligatures, or for that matter, many other characters
    which are simply accented. No foundry to date includes all the characters you
    might need.\r\n\r\nAs to Sabon, I think Monotype at some point licensed the font
    from Linotype. The reason I think this is that the italic is the wide-set version
    you get from the days when the Linotype linecaster used duplexed mats, so the
    ital had the same setwidth (perforce) as the roman.\r\n\r\nWhen Linotype went
    from metal to film, they kept the same italic, even though the technical reasons
    for it were gone. When Tschichold dew up Sabon, he made three versions: One for
    Linotype, one for Monotype, and one for Stempel for hand-setting. The Linotype
    and Monotype versions were drawn with the limitations of machine setting in mind.
    Monotype and Linotype (metal) machines were quite different, so the compromises
    were different.\r\n\r\nIf one were to argue which is best, it would be the Stempel;
    as a hand-set font, it had none of the mold problems of Linotype nor the unit-based
    compromises of Monotype. And of course, the Stempel is the one we can't get.\r\n\r\nI
    have owned both Linotype & Monotype PostScript fonts, though the Monotype I bought
    was back in the early 1990s, thinking it might have a better italic than the Linotype.
    It was exactly the same. So I recut it, looking at the Stempel to a large degree.\r\n\r\nAs
    to the \"new\" Sabon, well, what was Sabon ever but a nice Garamond, with some
    thought into it to have harmonious versions for differing technologies. As those
    technologies are no longer used (i.e., no longer impose restrictions ), The \"New\"
    Sabon is just another nice Garamond variant. But to my eye, it certainly isn't
    Sabon. I'm sure I'll take some heat over that statement, so let me say it is only
    my opinion.\r\n\r\nAs to converting Type 1 to OpenType, it is more a matter of
    saving work you have put into them rather than saving money. It takes me about
    8 hours to convert & write features for a new OT version of the roman text font.
    Less for italic & much less for display. Part of that is getting all the superscripts
    for footnote calls, and numerator/denominators for unlimited fractions, and then
    kerning them all. Etc. But the way I work isn't likely one you could use; all
    our old Type 1 fonts were database versions (all glyphs in one font), which saves
    me a bunch of time. And I have Y&Y TeX tools, which lets me make a PFA from a
    PFB, then run  a script I wrote to change all the old names (like Asmall to A.smcp).
    I do most of the \"features\" work in a text editor outside FontLab & can get
    a list of the characters I want for each feature from the AFM. Likely you could
    do this with Python & any text editor that let you shift into a column mode, but
    it all takes time, and if you don't have something you've worked hard on in your
    Type 1 fonts, you would likely be better off to re-buy them.  "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Marcel-
    body: "charles_e:\r\n<em>And I have Y&Y TeX tools, which lets me make a PFA from
      a PFB, then run a script I wrote to change all the old names (like Asmall to
      A.smcp).</em>\r\n\r\nThat sounds interesting. I also use TeX, but I get a hell
      of a job when I need to re-encode a font, e.g. to use superscripts for footnotes
      or small caps. Do you mind sharing your script (I am a Linux user, so I can
      use a lot of script languages)?\r\n\r\nMany thanks in advance!"
    created: '2007-02-27 14:29:11'
  created: '2007-02-17 02:31:05'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>No foundry to date includes all the characters you might need.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    a big statement. Would you mind to elaborate? Essentially, I'm wondering about
    what might be missing. Thanks."
  created: '2007-02-17 10:49:11'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Sure. But first, this is the second time in one day you've come at me, so
    as a preamble, I'll admit (even state!) that I generalize a fair bit, particularly
    on an internet forum. So when I say \"No foundry to date includes all the characters
    you might need\" I'm making presumptions about both (1) material you might need
    to set, and (2) what restrictions might apply to font selection.\r\n\r\nAs to
    the first: I set books for university presses. So for example: Some of these presses
    in the Southwest (New Mexico, Arizona) have accepted manuscripts which include
    significant amounts of Navajo and Apache. Orthographies differ, but one common
    one is to use certain vowels that have both an acute accent and an ogonek. These
    are not in Unicode as precomposed characters I believe, so maybe that doesn't
    count. The point is the comp faced with setting the material has to come up with
    a solution, and that solution will not be found looking for a typeface that has
    these characters. They are easy to make, but you do have to make them.\r\n\r\nThere
    are presses in the Midwest and Northeast that handle different Native American
    Languages. Same problem with characters not available.\r\n\r\nOr if this is too
    esoteric, how about transliterated Arabic? Comes up a lot these days. I grumble
    about having to set the underdots, but am told that without them, it is very hard
    to tell just which Arabic character is being represented. Mainly, these are Dd,
    Hh, Ss, Tt, and Zz with dotbelow. They are in Unicode, I believe Latin Extended
    Additional. I haven't found them in any Adobe, Monotype, or Linotype Opentype
    font. So again, the comp has to come up with a solution. Now you can set a period
    (full stop), change the point side (smaller), lower it, kern it back under the
    letter, set the next letter & kern it \"forward\" to where it should fall. \r\n\r\nOne
    down, 749 to go.\r\n\r\nJust one reason I rant about EULAs. There is no difference
    in the look of the final product, the printed book, but there is a hell of a lot
    of difference in effort, and resulting cost to the publisher. There is also the
    matter that publishers today don't regard the printed book as the final product.
    For the XML file to be useful, somebody is going to have to go into it & change
    all those kerned periods (which also have code to change & varying position for
    different letters & font styles) to the proper Unicode index. I suppose you don't
    have to change it to the precomposed glyph (that would involve more searches)
    but to just the combining diacritic. \r\n\r\nAs for me, if the EULA allows, I'll
    \"modify\" the font by making up the character. Which reminds me, hove about putting
    the combining diacritics in fonts?\r\n\r\nNow if Native American and Arabic Transliterations
    aren't enough, you can add \"Sanskrit\". We got one job from a publisher that
    usually set their books in house because they couldn't set the transliterated
    (Latin alphabet) characters (See ISAT at Wikipedia). These too are in Unicode.\r\n\r\nOr
    the scholars who deal with Old English. They want more than their (frequently
    missing) yoghs. Take a look at the Junicode fonts down in the private use area.
    And some of these scholars have submitted a set of characters to the Unicode consortium,
    & I'd bet they will be added.\r\n\r\nSo much for (1).\r\n\r\nI told a little fib
    earlier -- because the solution for a comp encountering a need for these characters
    is not \"looking for a font.\" Font selection in scholarly publishing is done
    by the book designer. They are not going to use Junicode, or Gentium for that
    matter. As useful as these fonts may be for manuscripts (typescripts, really),
    they are not going to be acceptable to any book designer at any publishing house
    I know of. Some designer's will consult with the comp about font selection in
    a book, most won't. Their attitude is they want it set in Minion or Scala or whatever,
    and it is the comp's job to figure out how to do so. \r\n\r\nA P.S by-the-way.
    Using InDesign, take a look at Monotype Bulmer OT sold through Adobe. Set the
    fi-ligature followed by an apostrophe. oops. Best I can tell, the class code for
    the _f set (which contains all the f-ligatures) is set up to allow class-based
    kerns on the left only. But somehow the kern for \"f\" \"apostrophe\" & a whole
    host of punctuation following the \"f\" got included in the class-based kerning.
    All the kerns are on the right, for every member of the class. Fortunately I have
    the Adobe EULA on this one and can go in & fix it, before I have to set a book
    where the main character has the nickname \"Jiffi\"\r\n\r\nThe point isn't to
    pick on type designers or foundries. How can they possibly foresee all the uses
    their work will be put to. The point is that the \"font\" isn't done when released
    by the foundry. It never was, even in the days of hand-set type -- quick, \"where's
    the saw?\""
  created: '2007-02-17 13:40:41'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>But first, this is the second time in one day you\u2019ve come at me,
    so as a preamble</em>\r\n\r\nMere coincidence, don't take it personally.\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the explanation. Your previous post makes much more sense now. I'm not surprised
    that foundries don't carry fonts containing the characters your work requires.
    Scholarly publishing is indeed a very specific segment of the market.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    <em>The point is that the \u201Cfont\u201D isn\u2019t done when released by the
    foundry. It never was, even in the days of hand-set type</em>\r\n\r\nAnother generalization,
    perhaps?... Again, rest assure that I'm not picking on you. Seriously."
  created: '2007-02-17 14:51:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Another generalization\r\n\r\nThere's nothing wrong with generalization,
    if it's true. Charles's \"Where's the saw?\" refers to kerning in the days of
    metal type. I believe the printer had to do physical work on the type with a saw
    to get a nicely kerned title. So the metal font was not completely 'done' in the
    sense of being ready to use for any purpose.  "
  created: '2007-02-17 15:01:59'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Charles --\r\n\r\nI always enjoy reading your comments, and I respect your
    vast experience in book composition.\r\n\r\nHowever, I believe you were mistaken
    above when you stated that Tschichold drew three versions of Sabon, one for each
    of the three technologies. I'm pretty certain that the original brief was for
    a <e>single</em> design that would set identically in all three technologies.
    \r\n\r\nThat proved an enormous challenge, especially addressing the conflicting
    limitations of the Monotype and Linotype. The resulting design was constrained
    to an 18-unit system (Monotype's primary technical restriction) <em>and</em> the
    italic had to be duplexed to the roman (Linotype's technical primary limitation).
    \r\n\r\nAs far as I know, the Stempel version could just go along for the ride.
    The main advantage of the Stempel fonts was that they were made in larger display
    sizes, something that was not done for the machines. As a consequence, I believe
    that the larger sizes had some additional refinements, since they no longer needed
    to be identical to Mono or Lino versions.\r\n\r\nThis would be the reason that
    your MT version exhibited the same wide italics as the LT version. They were,
    in fact, the same originally.\r\n\r\nNow, why the digitizations retained the original
    machine-metal limitations, that's another question . . . one which presumably
    Sabon Next was meant, in part, to answer. But then, it took off on a slightly
    different track. \r\n\r\nPerhaps when you release Sabon from the technical constraints
    that gave birth to it, it ceases to be the Sabon that we know and love.\r\n\r\n--
    K.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-17 15:05:17'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "P.S. For any who are willing to wade through an ancient discussion, there
    was a detour into quite a bit of talk about Mono/Lino constraints and Sabon back
    in this <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/1083\" target=new>\"Trapping\" thread</a>.
    You have to scroll down, past the usual mud-slinging, to the bottom of the first
    page and on to the second.\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2007-02-17 15:31:29'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Even if the EULA does not allow modifications, one could contact the designer
    of the font to add the necessary characters. Perhaps this is easier to do with
    a smaller shop (and an advantage with working with independent designers).\r\n\r\nA
    publisher of travel books licensed a large group of our OT fonts which have a
    large Latin glyph set. What the fonts did not have were characters for Pinyin
    transliteration. We added these characters at no additional charge (the license
    they bought was fairly substantial), and will now continue to include these characters
    in all our future fonts.\r\n\r\nAnd yes, including combining accents is what will
    be required on all fonts from now on."
  created: '2007-02-17 15:48:26'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: ">>Even if the EULA does not allow modifications, one could contact the designer
    of the font to add the necessary characters. Perhaps this is easier to do with
    a smaller shop (and an advantage with working with independent designers).>>\r\n\r\nWell,
    as one small voice in the wilderness, my solution to foundries that don't allow
    modification for ones own use is to not use those fonts. Why should I pay to have
    a dot or macron put under or over a letter? And you have to understand this whole
    matter of \"paying.\" When a publisher accepts a manuscript, a lot of people wind
    up with their hands on it. The designer is the person who selects the typefaces.
    There are obviously some restrictions put on him/her. Sometimes the designer is
    a freelancer, sometime an employee of the publishing company or university press
    or whoever. The minute some foundry starts forcing the letter of the EULA, the
    press director is going to issue an edict \"only use fonts from foundries that
    don't do this\" -- or since most directors handle things in a generalized manner
    -- \"Only use Adobe fonts,\" letting the designer come back with a list of foundries
    who permit modifications to a font.\r\n\r\nEven if you are willing to make up
    the required characters for free, there is a time factor. You gonna do the work
    & get it shipped in an hour?\r\n\r\nAnd if you are going to charge \u2013 the
    old practice from the days of the Linotron 202 for example. Linotype\u2019s practice
    was to make up the characters (supplemental font), which was available to anybody,
    EXCEPT as a concession to the guy who paid, it wasn\u2019t advertised or listed
    in the catalogue. So unless you saw a lot of work & poked about, you didn\u2019t
    know those supplemental sorts were available. If you\u2019re gonna charge and
    then make it available to all & publicize this, you\u2019ll get grumbles from
    the person who had to pay extra.\r\n\r\nMy personal feeling about EULA\u2019s
    is that whoever licenses the type promises two things: (1) They won\u2019t bring
    any discredit to the foundry, and (2) they won\u2019t cost the foundry a sale.
    The rest is the language of Lawyers.\r\n\r\nNow there are a few who say, \u201CNo.
    My little gem is perfect as is, you can\u2019t do anything to it, including changing
    the kerning.\u201D I won\u2019t buy those fonts, and will turn down any book where
    the designer has selected such a font, unless they can show me a site license
    which covers both the publisher and their subcontractors \u2013 which doesn\u2019t
    happen. Ever. And does \u201Cno kerning\u201D imply you can\u2019t \u201Ctrack\u201D
    the font? Or, using InDesign, ignore the metrical kerning & go with ID\u2019s
    optical kerning & tracking? Makes no sense, just like making up accents via kerning,
    size change, etc. in an \u201Capplications program\u201D instead of making up
    the character in FontLab.\r\n\r\nAnd Miguel (if I may) what isn\u2019t a specific
    segment of the market?\r\n\r\nAnd Kent, likely you\u2019re right. I had some fleeting
    conversation with Carter about Sabon, but probably mis-remembered what he described
    as the problems implementing it. I always wondered why the italic foundry version
    chopped off the terminal on the \u201Cj\u201D and others didn\u2019t. But if you
    look in the ENCYCLOPEDIA OF TYPEFACES, the italic shown is surely the Spempel
    (it even says so), and if you look at the Linotype version of the italic, the
    spacing & even some of the letterforms are quite different. But I imagine you\u2019re
    right that Tschichold only made one set of drawings.\r\n\r\nCharles"
  created: '2007-02-17 16:46:36'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: P.S. Oh. It finally sank in, maybe the Stempel specimen shown in EOTF is a
    display size, though it includes a bold. Much nicer italic anyway.
  created: '2007-02-17 17:15:43'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "Charles:\r\nI agree with you. In most cases \"no modification\" clauses in
    EULAs mean \"no sale\" to me.\r\n\r\nI could negotiate with the foundry, but with
    a one man operation like mine the sale is small; I have no clout, and may as well
    just move on. I can always buy from Adobe, Village Type, ShinnType, or one of
    the other foundries that allow modifications."
  created: '2007-02-17 20:09:44'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "<cite>Charles:\r\nI agree with you. In most cases \u201Cno modification\u201D
    clauses in EULAs mean \u201Cno sale\u201D to me.<cite>\r\n\r\nCould also mean:
    a standard clause that's unfair to consumers and therefore not binding."
  created: '2007-02-17 22:07:27'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "I know the complaints about typefaces lacking accents for setting Sanskrit.
    The problem which I see -- I mean, for foundries to support these special accented
    glyphs -- is that university/scholarly segment is not really a market. A generalization,
    but at least true for Germany: Universities/scholars don't have a budget for fonts,
    nor do certain publishers of scientific books. Some even ask authors to \"design\"
    books on their own. And then ask university departments or authors to finance
    the printing. This is especially the case for doctoral theses which <cite>must</cite>
    be published ... (To counter my own generalization: There are publishers of scientific
    books who do well designed and produced books.)\r\n\r\nBut it would really be
    great if there were a few solid text faces equipped for setting scientific books.
    Just like Adobe added polytonic Greek to some. I also wished that -- since you
    mentioned it -- Monotype would extend Bulmer to cover accented glyphs required
    for Sanskrit &c. It's wonderful typeface for this kind of books.\r\n\r\n<cite>Even
    if you are willing to make up the required characters for free, there is a time
    factor. You gonna do the work & get it shipped in an hour?</cite>\r\n\r\nHm. I
    thought that for this kind of books it were better to rely on three, four, five
    typefaces which have proven or been adjusted/extended to work well instead of
    making a quick decision to use something \"new\" for each title."
  created: '2007-02-17 23:02:42'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Karsten, I agree with you. I wasn't asking Adobe -- or any other foundry
    -- to fill out Latin Extended A & B, or Latin Additional. The original point was
    that no font comes from the foundry ready for all uses, and a compositor has to
    adapt. Was true in the metal era, too. Many technical books had to be set Monotype,
    where a certain \"hand setting\" was possible. As a compositor, I view PostScript
    as a wonderful development. It is only certain EULA's I view with scorn.\r\n\r\n\r\nThe
    \"time factor\" you quoted applied to fonts needing foundry modification. In our
    shop, it isn't too unusual for a comp to ask me to make up a character RIGHT NOW.
    So I do, unless it is something tricky.\r\n\r\nAcademic publishing in the States
    is a bit different than Europe, but it seems designers are the same everywhere
    -- gotta use what's new & different.\r\n\r\nBut I tell you what. If your brother
    will send me his Bulmer, with an Adobe license (which proves he owns it), I will
    add the glyphs needed for Sanskrit, using the Latin alphabet. And no, nobody else
    or any other fonts, this is just my way of apologizing for taking up so much of
    the forum's bandwidth. Unless someone pipes in & tells me this is unlawful, of
    course . . .\r\n\r\nCharles"
  created: '2007-02-17 23:20:43'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>The original point was that no font comes from the foundry ready for
    all uses, and a compositor has to adapt.</cite>\r\n\r\nFully agreed. Personally
    I don't use typefaces that I am not allowed to modify for the reasons you mentioned.\r\nI
    think in case their EULA doesn't allow it, I'd nevertheless ask foundries if they
    would allow modifications for personal use; what's important at least to me is
    that one doesn't redistribute the modified version in any way, or make modifications
    for others."
  created: '2007-02-17 23:57:17'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>. . . what\u2019s important at least to me is that one doesn\u2019t
    redistribute the modified version in any way, or make modifications for others.</cite>\r\n\r\nPretty
    much. Since the font will be shown in some form -- printed or displayed on a monitor
    -- I would also want to do a good enough job so the foundry would have no reason
    to complain about the quality of the modification. As far as font work for others,
    If the font is not going to anyone who has not already purchased it and holds
    a valid license, I don't see the harm, but maybe I'm overlooking something. I
    don't do this as I feel our fonts are a competitive advantage in the composition
    business, but of course I'm prejudiced. "
  created: '2007-02-18 01:18:27'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Marcel,\r\n\r\nYou need something like RENAMECH, originally a part of a Y&Y
    TeX package. Y&Y is gone, but as I remember, Berthold gave all his ancillary programs
    to the TeX User's Group, so they may have the routine. If you have RENAMECH.EXE,
    you can write a simple search & replace file to run on both the .PFA and the .AFM
    files (you also need PFBTOPFA). When you then open the .PFA in FontLab, the characters
    will have their new names & the associated metrical data.\r\n\r\nThis is different
    than reencoding a font -- you are changing the glyph names, not their location.
    But Y&Y also wrote routines for reencoding a font; again, I'd get up with TUG."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Marcel-
    body: Thanks Charles, I understand. I think it's not necessary to change the location,
      just the names. Or I could experiment with different encoding files, like the
      LCDF Typetools do. I will plunge into this material again and have a look at
      the TeTeX/TeXLive mailing lists.
    created: '2007-02-28 15:04:26'
  created: '2007-02-27 15:45:15'
date: '2006-07-12 20:39:54'
node_type: forum
title: Sabon Open Type - Adobe vs Monotype

---
