---
author:
  name: Robby Woodard
  picture: 110532
body: "Clarise is a type one font I created a couple years ago with Fontographer.
  It has a regular book version, a small cap book version and an x-tra small cap book
  version where the small caps matched the x-height.\r\n\r\nI am moving on to Open
  Type and FontLab 5 and was hoping to roll all these versions into one compatible
  fully kerned OT face.\r\n\r\nAfter a couple weeks of solid work, I have the small
  caps working, and the ligatures and the os and tabular figures... but I can't access
  the x-caps through anything but the glyph palettes in Illustrator and InDesign.\r\n\r\nAm
  I trying to do something that isn't supported? Where do you go for resources to
  figure this kind of thing out?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/clarise1_4726.gif]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'An aside: X-Cap is a great term for that.'
  created: '2006-07-15 00:12:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Within the font, there are a couple of ways you could access these smaller
    smallcaps, and could even employ more than one of these methods. The most obvious
    OTL feature to use would be the Petite Caps 'pcap' and Capitals to Petite Caps
    'c2pc' features. These were specifically designed to support this kind of smaller
    smallcap, as implemented in Emigre's Mrs Eaves and Filosofia types. See these
    links:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/features_pt.htm#pcap\r\n\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/features_ae.htm#c2pc\r\n\r\nIn
    addition, you could treat the smaller smallcaps as stylistic variants of the regular
    smallcaps, using 'salt' and/or 'ssXX' features.\r\n\r\nIn terms of present application
    support, your best bet would be to map the regular smallcap glyphs to the smaller
    smallcaps glyphs in e.g. the 'ss01' feature. This would make them accessible in
    Adobe CS2 apps. The Petite Caps features are not supported in any shipping apps,
    but are supported in the Windows Presentation Format environment and XAML, so
    will be more accessible in future. It is worth implementing these features now."
  created: '2006-07-15 00:16:12'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: would it be unkosher to map smaller, x-height capitals to the lowercase using
    the smcp feature and larger smallcaps to the upercase using the c2sc feature?
    thoughts?
  children:
  - author:
      name: gthompson
      picture: 109676
    body: "I wouldn't do it. John's right that the petite caps feature should be used
      for this. Mapping different small caps using smcp and c2sc would be confusing
      to the user who rightly would expect to see the same small caps regardless of
      whether they typed UC or lc. Mapping the x-caps to smcp would force the user
      to do something to fix the text if the result wasn't what they wanted whereas
      using the petite caps feature would give them full control over what was happening
      without unexpected results. \r\n\r\nGeorge \r\nI felt bad because I had no shoes,
      until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
    created: '2006-07-15 17:14:18'
  created: '2006-07-15 00:31:42'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i don't agree that the petite caps feature is the right one. i mean it's fine
    to use it for this, but i doubt it'll ever get implemented into any major software
    apps (just my own hunch). stylistic sets is a good option. but i still don't see
    why users should "expect to see the same small caps regardless..." just because
    that's what Adobe fonts do. what is the all small caps feature for anyway? does
    anyone set text in all small caps? i'm assuming that the c2sc feature is for things
    like acronyms anyway where x-height caps just look silly and so it would make
    sense to use larger smallcaps for situations where smallcaps are replacing capitals.
    can i get a designer's take on this? miss tiff, what do you think?
  created: '2006-07-15 17:29:28'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: If it isn't easy to access it ain't gonna get used. That said, if it were
    as easy as selecting a stylistic set then it wouldn't be a problem. Would it?
    I mean, stylistic set one, Caps and small caps, stylistic set two Caps and petite
    caps, stylistic set 3 small caps and petite caps. Would that work?
  created: '2006-07-15 20:24:33'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I'll assume that your uppercase A is the \"A\" glyph, the lowercase a is
    the \"a\" glyph, the mid-sized smallcap A is the \"A.smcp\" glyph, and the tiny
    smallcap A is the \"A.pcap\" glyph. \r\n\r\nThen your feature code should look
    like: \r\n\r\n==\r\n\r\nfeature smcp {\r\n  sub a by A.smcp;\r\n} smcp; \r\n\r\nfeature
    c2sc {\r\n  sub A by A.smcp;\r\n} c2sc; \r\n\r\nfeature pcap {\r\n  sub a by A.pcap;\r\n}
    pcap; \r\n\r\nfeature c2pc {\r\n  sub A by A.pcap;\r\n} c2pc; \r\n\r\nfeature
    ss01 {\r\n  sub A.smcp by A.pcap;\r\n} ss01; \r\n\r\nfeature salt {\r\n  sub A.smcp
    by A.pcap; \r\n} salt; \r\n\r\n==\r\n\r\n(For salt, it might also be: \r\n\r\nfeature
    salt {\r\n  sub A.smcp from [A.pcap ...]; \r\n} salt; \r\n\r\nif your salt code
    contains some one-to-one-of-many mappings.)\r\n\r\nThe \"ss01\" feature can be
    used in InDesign CS2 and in Apple applications on Mac OS X 10.4 (TextEdit, Pages,
    Keynote). The \"salt\" feature can be used in Illustrator CS/CS2. \r\n\r\nThe
    \"pcap\"/\"c2pc\" features can be used e.g. in Apple applications on Mac OS X
    10.4 (TextEdit, Pages, Keynote), in Microsoft WPF applications such as the Expression
    Interactive Designer (http://www.microsoft.com/products/expression/en/interactive_designer/
    ), in XeTeX (http://scripts.sil.org/xetex/ ). \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-16 16:03:40'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>but i doubt it\u2019ll ever get implemented into any major software
    apps</em>\r\n\r\nIt is already implemented in WPF (just like Adam mentioned)\r\nhttp://windowssdk.msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.windows.fontcapitals.aspx\r\n\r\n>
    <em>feature smcp {\r\nsub a by A.smcp;\r\n} smcp;\r\n\r\nfeature pcap {\r\nsub
    a by A.pcap;\r\n} pcap;</em>\r\n\r\nShouldn't these be\r\n\r\n<code>feature smcp
    {\r\nsub a by a.smcp; #a.smcp instead of A.smcp\r\n} smcp;\r\n\r\nfeature pcap
    {\r\nsub a by a.pcap; #a.pcap instead of A.pcap\r\n} pcap;</code>\r\n\r\nIt's
    a subtle difference, but you don't want your 'a' to default to 'A', right?\r\n\r\n<em>Note:</em>
    <code>a.smcp</code> is just a copy of <code>A.smcp</code>, and both glyph would
    exist in the font.\r\nThe same would apply to <code>a.pcap/A.pcap</code>."
  created: '2006-07-16 17:40:30'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> It\u2019s a subtle difference, but you don\u2019t want \r\n> your \u2018a\u2019
    to default to \u2018A\u2019, right?\r\n\r\nIndeed, *if* you choose to include
    duplicate \"a.smcp\" and \"A.smcp\", as well as \"a.pcap\" and \"A.pcap\", then
    the code should be as you suggest. If, however, you decide to only supply one
    set of small cap glyphs and one set of petite cap glyphs, then I believe it\u2019s
    better for these glyphs to have uppercase names (before the prefix) so that they
    fall back to uppercase letters when Unicode codepoints are computed by Acrobat.
    The reason for this is that all-uppercase text is always correct while all-lowercase
    is not (i.e. \"ADAM TWARDOCH\" is correct text but \"adam twardoch\" is not).
    For this reason, for example, Unicode character names are set in all uppercase.
    \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-17 01:02:36'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Unless you happen to be erik spiekermann\r\n\r\n;^)"
  created: '2006-07-17 04:08:51'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I believe it\u2019s better for these glyphs to have uppercase names (before
    the prefix) so that they fall back to uppercase letters when Unicode codepoints
    are computed by Acrobat.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is one of the reasons i proposed mapping
    the larger small caps to the caps and the smaller to the petite caps, to avoid
    all this confusion."
  created: '2006-07-17 14:19:04'
- author:
    name: Robby Woodard
    picture: 110532
  body: "I have followed Adam's advice for this first attempt...\r\n\r\nIt seems to
    work. I can change the type to small caps and THEN to petite caps with the stylistic
    set in InDesin and the stylistic alternate in Illustrator...\r\n\r\nIt works...
    but I am wondering  at this point if it might be easier for everybody if I just
    left everything as three different OpenType fonts-- regular, small caps and petite
    caps (I would prefer the term x-cap -- more descriptive and a little less gay
    sounding)\r\n\r\nWith the three separate sets you could just access the set you
    wanted through the character pallet in one stroke and be done with it. Albeit--
    that way would lose the kerning between the caps and small caps and lower case
    that I have  meticulously set up... but I really wonder if that stuff is so very
    important to most design situations anyway.\r\n\r\nAnd you could always hand kern,
    like I have learned to do, if it was a concern...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/work_6279.gif]\r\n\r\nR\\V"
  created: '2006-07-17 23:02:51'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Robby, \r\n\r\nI agree that for small caps, it\u2019s worth considering putting
    the designs into separate fonts. Small caps is a typographic variation that is
    on the verge. Small caps deviate from the basic grapheme of the letters much more
    than ligatures or swashes, but probably less than italic or bold. Of course you\u2019d
    put italic or bold into separate fonts, and of course you\u2019d put swashes or
    ligatures into the same font (in OpenType). \r\n\r\nBut small caps? The makers
    of the OpenType specification have envisioned the appropriate features, such as
    \"smcp\", \"c2sc\" etc. But this does not mean that you *must* integrate your
    small caps into the basic font. Indeed, *if* you provide a separate small caps
    font, even people who use Word, Freehand, Corel Draw etc. will be able to use
    them. Underware puts their small caps into separate fonts, for example. \r\n\r\nNote
    that even if you make a separate OpenType font that has small caps in place of
    lowercase letters and uppercase letters on the uppercase slots, it\u2019s still
    useful to include the \"c2sc\" feature in that font that substitutes the uppercase
    by the lowercase: \r\n\r\nfeature c2sc {\r\n  sub [A B C ...] by [a b c ...];\r\n}
    c2sc; \r\n\r\nI think it would be also useful to include a dummy \"smcp\" feature
    a la: \r\n\r\nfeature smcp { \r\n  sub .notdef by .notdef; \r\n} smcp; \r\n\r\nThis
    will ensure that various applications will \"register\" the font as having small
    caps. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-18 19:42:11'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> that way would lose the kerning between the caps \r\n> and small caps and
    lower case that I have \r\n> meticulously set up\r\n\r\nAs I say, you\u2019d probably
    want to put the small caps along with uppercase letters into the separate fonts.
    You\u2019d still have the kerning between the small caps and the uppercase. \r\n\r\nAnd,
    for what exact purpose would you want to kern small caps with lowercase? :> "
  created: '2006-07-18 19:44:31'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Robby,\r\n\r\nIf Petite is too gay a word for you, you could call them X-treem
    concentrated super-potent caps.  ; ) \r\n\r\nIf the 3 styles of caps are already
    available in PS fonts, why make a new format of font that has to be used the same
    way? Isn't the benefit of OT that one font can contain all the variants of one
    weight/style? I don't agree with Adam that small caps are so irrelevant to a basic
    Roman font. I expect book designers would like very much to be able to have small
    caps and x-caps in the regular font. Especially since implementing them is as
    simple as selecting a feature from a menu.  I think small caps will continue to
    be ignored as long as they reside in separate fonts.\r\n\r\nYou've heard some
    ideas for the substitutions, and I'm sure once the logic is decided and implemented,
    users will find it very nice to use. See the link on the Mrs. Eaves Open Type
    page showing the features of that typeface. I don't agree with all the combinations
    that are available with that design, but you can choose your own and offer different
    levels of automation to satisfy different kinds of designers. The glyph palette
    is always there as well, and you get to keep your Cap/small cap kerning. "
  created: '2006-07-18 20:30:22'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>feature in that font that substitutes the uppercase by the lowercase:\r\nfeature
    c2sc {\r\nsub [A B C \u2026] by [a b c \u2026];\r\n} c2sc;</em>\r\n\r\nUsing a
    feature to do case conversion (which means replacing an Unicode point by another)?!...
    now that's extreme stuff!! :^)"
  created: '2006-07-18 20:38:46'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Using a feature to do case conversion (which \r\n> means replacing an Unicode
    point by another)\r\n\r\nNo, it does not mean that. OpenType substitutions work
    on the glyph level. The character codes should be principally retained. Only in
    a situation when the Unicode codepoints are not available, an application can
    fallback to glyph names. :)"
  created: '2006-07-18 23:47:44'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I agree with John and Carl (Crossgrove).\r\n\r\nI would sincerely hope you
    put all this in one font, and for the X-small caps use both ss01 and pcap/c2pc.\r\n\r\nIf
    you decide to make multiple fonts to make access easier for the less-OpenType-savvy
    part of the universe, please also keep them all in the main font for those of
    us whose apps do support this stuff.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-07-19 07:12:53'
- author:
    name: Robby Woodard
    picture: 110532
  body: "I have the Clarice OT book weight caps, small caps and petite caps all working
    properly.\r\n\r\nI can now use the same code for the medium and bold weights.
    And I am going to just leave the old individual type one fonts as they are for
    people that don't care about open type features.\r\n\r\nI really appreciate all
    the help, everybody...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/thanks_4584.gif]\r\n\r\nR\\V"
  created: '2006-07-20 01:22:06'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> If you decide to make multiple \r\n> fonts to make access easier for \r\n>
    the less-OpenType-savvy part \r\n> of the universe, please also \r\n> keep them
    all in the main font \r\n> for those of us whose apps do \r\n> support this stuff.\r\n\r\nI
    agree. Indeed, the choice of whether to use the OpenType Layout features or separate
    fonts for small caps is not necessarily an either-or choice. It can be an \"and\"
    option. \r\n\r\nBut I think my point is valid in that the small caps represent
    a case that is on the \"verge\" of what is reasonable to be supported through
    OpenType Layout features. \r\n\r\nFor example, when making the OpenType conversion,
    Adobe chose to merge the character sets of Robert Slimbach's Poetica and Matthew
    Carter's Shelley Script into single OpenType fonts. In case of Poetica, I think
    that it was a completely founded decision. However, in case of Shelley Script,
    I'd argue that keeping these fonts as separate \"Shelley Andante\", \"Shelley
    Allegro\" and \"Shelley Volante\" fonts *might* have been a good choice *as well*,
    or perhaps even a better choice. \r\n\r\nIn any case, *this* was an artistic choice,
    not technical. In some cases, decisions in what to put where in a font, are of
    technical nature (for example, whether to put ligatures into the \"liga\" feature
    rather than the \"onum\" feature). In other cases, like making decisions about
    stylistic sets or whether a certain ligature should be standard or discretionary,
    it really is an artistic choice. \r\n\r\nI'll argue that in case of small caps,
    the issue *is* somewhat on the junction of artistic and technical considerations.
    \r\n\r\nCarl writes: \r\n> I expect book designers would like very \r\n> much
    to be able to have small caps and \r\n> x-caps in the regular font. \r\n> Especially
    since implementing them is \r\n> as simple as selecting a feature from \r\n> a
    menu. \r\n\r\nThat's a valid point. \r\n\r\nOn the other hand, today's applications'
    font menus don't tell me which fonts support which features. If I put a small
    caps font as a separate font, I'll see it in the WYSIWYG font list of InDesign,
    Illustrator, Suitcase or Font Explorer along with the other styles. This means
    that as a font user, I'll be instantly aware of the fact that the particular family
    includes small caps. \r\n\r\nIf you show me at least *one* application that allows
    me to easily look up which OpenType fonts in the font collection on my computer
    have small caps (or support any other OpenType feature, for that matter), I'll
    be very grateful. Seriously. \r\n\r\nIn other words: these days, in order to do
    the \"as simple as selecting a feature from a menu\" thing, the font user needs
    to know upfront that a font supports a certain feature. It's not much of a problem
    for a book designer who uses 2-3 font families but for graphic designers who do
    avertising etc., and need to deal with large font collections, it is a problem.
    \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-20 01:46:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "If you're going to have more than one set of small caps, I'm with Adam --
    put the \"alternate\" small caps in a separate font.\r\n\r\nOne advantage is that
    the menu name would be quite informative, eg \"Shinnface with Middle Caps\" rather
    than \"ss03\". \r\n\r\nI'm working on a typeface with a small x-height, and two
    sizes of small caps appears to be in order. So I am putting the small caps in
    the standard font, and the \"Middle Caps\", as I term them, in the font \"Shinnface
    with Middle Caps\". \r\n\r\nAlso, It's not apparent whether Petite is larger than
    Small, or vice versa. Or whether a Petite  \"caps with small caps\" setting combines
    Caps with Petite Caps, or Petite Caps with Small Caps. So to avoid confusion,
    having separate fonts avoids the possibility of a Petite with Small Caps setting,
    which is an unlikely usage.\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-20 16:03:43'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"If you show me at least *one* application that allows me to easily look
    up which OpenType fonts in the font collection on my computer have small caps
    (or support any other OpenType feature, for that matter), I\u2019ll be very grateful.
    Seriously.\"\r\n\r\nInDesign's glyph palette shows only glyphs that are present.
    No fakes there. The OpenType menu shows features that are built into the specific
    font you're viewing, with non-functional fetures in brackets. \r\n\r\nOn the mac,
    InDesign also shows in the font menu OpenType icons, which is a small clue. \r\n\r\nThough
    these are not what you are asking for, they do solve the problem of finding out
    which fonts have small caps, to some degree. Of course, it is one application,
    or suite of apps, and not available system-level, and not available at all without
    the apps. \r\n\r\nThe basic complaint here is that one can't tell what capabilities
    lie within any given font without deeper exploration. This to me is a reason to
    develop the means to reveal this information, not a reason to make OpenType fonts
    in several parts.\r\n\r\nThe thing you are asking for is a worthy project, but
    probably complex. Is anyone up to the challenge? It would be an interesting utility,
    or function of the system(s), to show something like Adobe's list of icons; they
    indicate at a glance (once you understand them) what features are included. \r\n\r\nI
    don't agree that Small caps/Petite caps use would be so odd or inadvisable. One
    benefit of a variety of caps in a font (think Poetica or Operina) is that they
    can be combined a lot of different ways, some of which allow you to mimic different
    weights, and which may be more appropriate for certain sizes. Versatile, not confusing. "
  created: '2006-07-21 18:30:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Carl, yes in principle, but the names are confusing.\r\nIMO, a basic small
    cap is the one that's x-height, or just slightly taller.\r\nHowever, with small
    x-height typefaces, room is opened up between x-height and cap height, for another
    \"small\" cap, which I would term \"Middle Cap\" -- ergo Full Size, Middle, and
    Small Caps being the nomenclature. After all, everyone's familiar with S, M, L
    and XL as designators of size range.\r\n\r\nBut that's just my logic, obviously
    Emigre has different ideas.\r\nThe thing is, different foundries will interpret
    OT features in different ways (just as they used to interpret \"expert\" set content
    in different ways in the previous generation of technology).\r\nSo what's needed
    is for software applications, Adobe and Quark of course, to provide the opportunity
    for foundry-designated descriptors. \"sso1\", for instance, is really hopeless.\r\nNot
    just a name, but a visual showing would help.\r\n\r\nIdeally, an application user
    could \"mouseover\" an item on the menu item, and a panel in the palette showing
    the U&lc alphabet and figures would change accordingly.\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-21 19:16:36'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Right. Robby's caps are Regular, middle and small. A set smaller than the
    x-height would be (besides strange) extra-small.... Since small caps are more
    generally associated/used with Caps, though, whatever names we give to additional
    sets of caps shouldn't really refer to the x-height, since even very conventional
    small caps can be larger than x-height. \r\n\r\nI would like for System software
    to reveal this information; in any app, both clear symbols like Adobe's, plus
    foundry style names should be shown, since as time goes forward, I suspect those
    names will become even less standardized. Given the possibilities of OT, and the
    different things different designers use OT for, we can't possibly predict now
    what all the eventual style names will be. I'm including something I call \"Cartographic
    Caps\" in my next release along with Swash Caps. If a user can't see them or the
    style name is meaningless, or worse, buried and meaningless, I agree, they're
    almost the same as not there."
  created: '2006-07-21 19:41:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "In the absence of retail software that adequately shows a font's full scope,
    the onus is on foundries to produce pdf specimens -- manuals, really -- which
    demonstrate its features.\r\nOr perhaps special website pages with interactive
    explanations. \r\nThere is a marketing opportunity here for well-designed documentation.
    Kent Lew's specimen for Whitman springs to mind, as something that shows glyphs
    attractively, lists features, and also puts them in explanatory context."
  created: '2006-07-22 17:13:39'
date: '2006-07-14 23:39:25'
title: X-tra Small Caps in Open Type

---
