---
author:
  name: kco
  picture: 110793
body: "Hi Typophiles, \r\nHere is a random question about Business card sizes. I got
  a hold of a couple BC\u2019s of random sizes. Although I heard it\u2019s best to
  stick to the common (3.5 x 2 in) just because it fits BC\u2019s cards binders and
  such, I found some other sizes interesting. I don\u2019t think going longer than
  3.5 in is functional but shorter than 2 in looks nice. I found some specs<a href=\"http://www.clickbusinesscards.com/faq/cards_cut_smaller.html\">
  online</a> about sizes and said they could make height shorter than (in metric system)
  53mm and showed a 89mm by 45mm card, I like that size but is there really another
  standard size besides 3.5 x 2 in? What are the pros and cons?\r\n\r\nHere are some
  size examples I found:\r\n\u2022 WeWorkForThem ---> 3.75 x 1.75 in (too long and
  doesn\u2019t fit BC holder)\r\n\u2022 Alterpop ---> 3.5 x 1.60 in (maybe a bit too
  short)\r\n\u2022 w.e.a clothing for children ---> 3.5 x 1.5 in (way too short in
  my opinion)\r\n\u2022 Sequence ---> the closest measure to this BC was on my pica
  ruler 21p3 x 10p6 (about 3.5 x 1.75 in) in my opinion the most comfortable size.\r\n\r\nThanks,
  \r\nkco\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: Oh I hate standard card sizes. I love the smaller ones though.
  created: '2006-07-18 08:22:49'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "Get with the Millimetres!\r\n\r\n90mm x 55mm - standard\r\n\r\nI still really
    like the slimmer line cards, but EVERYONE seems to be doing them now so therefore
    I really like the old school 90x55 I'd love to know where/why/how that size was
    chosen as standard.\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com/print.htm\">Solid Creative
    - Corporate Literature Design, Melbourne</a>"
  created: '2006-07-18 10:23:12'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "yup you're right, I love metric over imperial inches/ft! \r\n\r\nTypeEvents
    cards are 50mm x 90mm and our DaltonMaag ones are standard 55mm x 90mm but I think
    American ones are small like the 50mm x 90mm "
  created: '2006-07-18 11:25:37'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "I worked at a shop where a German visitor presented his card. It was a huge
    thing, about the size of a wedding invitation, and he presented it with two hands.
    The boss was very impressed, but a few days later realized the card was useless
    as he couldn't file it. He wrote the information on the back of one of his cards.\r\n\r\nKinda
    makes the original one worthless.\r\n\r\nThe only larger cards that can be useful
    are ones that fold to the regular size, and then the important information all
    has to be on one side, so it can be inserted in a card sleeve folded so the info
    shows. "
  created: '2006-07-18 15:02:51'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Listen stay with the standards if you are serious about doing business. Are
    sales your goal or being different. Wallets, Index Cards and other storage devices
    are made for standard sizes.  So when the person you gave your card too has long
    forgotten you but has a project he would like to give you wouldn't you want them
    to really find it easily?
  created: '2006-07-18 20:00:54'
- author:
    name: kco
    picture: 110793
  body: "Thanks to all Typophiles for keeping this topic going.\r\n\r\nIn response
    to Dan Weaver, this is not something I plan on doing for myself nor for a future
    project of mine, my purpose is to get some additional feedback as it does happen
    in the real world. Like I said I got a hold of a couple of these cards and it
    intrigued me. I also stated that its best to stick to the regular size for functional
    purposes as you mention. But thanks for the reply.\r\n\r\nIn response to Paul,
    I\u2019d also love to know where/why/how that size was chosen as standard?\r\n\r\nThanks
    again, \r\ncaco\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-18 21:49:17'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'You can also use printing to disguise the standard dimensions; embossed rules
    along the top and bottom, thick bars of color on sides, breaking up the width
    horizontally, etc. etc. If the layout and design of a card is compelling *and*
    it fits standard holders, all the better. Then there are all those other things
    you can use to differentiate: mylar, plastic, vellum, letterpress, crazy inks,
    rounded corners, die cuts, laser cuts, heavier card, duplex card, metal foils.....'
  created: '2006-07-18 22:00:50'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "Adding to this ... my collection of business cards is getting to over 300.
    I always thought it would be nice to make a resource site, that showed picture
    after picture of business cards from around the world. My name is Paul Ducco,
    and I collect business cards.\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Solid Creative</a>"
  created: '2006-07-18 23:45:41'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: in switzerland, 85x54mm is a standard size often used for business-cards.
  created: '2006-07-19 00:08:04'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: 3.5 x 1.75 has become my own personal standard.   =)
  created: '2006-07-19 17:04:01'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Most wallets are designed to hold standard sizes. Anything too funky risks
    getting discarded or lost. I'd work on making the design stand out and not the
    size/shape.
  created: '2006-07-19 23:03:18'
- author:
    name: dylan
    picture: 128368
  body: "I'm toying with the idea of building a square card at 2x2 inches. Something
    extremely simple, with my one color logo embossed on one side, and my name, email,
    and phone number on the other. No title, no mailing address. The type would be
    my own handwriting. \r\n\r\nAm I nuts?"
  created: '2006-07-21 15:03:25'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I have a metal business card holder that fits the 3.5x2 size card. Anything
    larger and it has to be pretty special for me to hang on to it. Otherwise, if
    I need to keep the information, I''ll just add it to my address book and toss
    the card. '
  created: '2006-07-21 17:10:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It is like a 14pt glyph in metal type on a 10pt line--it is different alright
    but rather a pain to deal with--and soon to be thrown in the broken type bin.\r\n\r\nI
    made a 2\" x 2\" card once, it just gets lost. It was cute while it lasted though
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-21 18:19:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it has to be pretty special for me to hang on to it.\r\n\r\nOh it will
    be: 2-7/8 by 1-9/16 (to accomodate the content - and content is never standard),
    letterpress in Roupen (used for the logo) and Patria, on thick burgundy paper,
    using a pretty special homemade ink... Available by the end of August.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-22 01:04:29'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: oh I want one!
  created: '2006-07-22 03:26:47'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]\r\n\r\ninches??? millimetres??? I'm
    still workin' in points & picas."
  created: '2006-07-22 05:54:04'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Please tell us more about the ink Hrant.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-07-22 13:29:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm reducing wine (over the stove) and adding it to a white opaque base.
    It seems to go from a mauve to a taupe over time. So I guess the card will be
    4-dimensional.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-22 14:53:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I\u2019m reducing wine\"\r\n\r\nSo it will be a vintage card then? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-22 17:58:09'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "Make sure you post pics when you're done eh!\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Solid
    Creative</a>"
  created: '2006-07-24 23:14:07'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "So it ages, but will it travel?\r\nI pictured you hunting for oak galls or
    crushing insects:)\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-07-25 11:25:42'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: Speaking of odd cards, I remember a woodworker who built his cards out of
    scraps of wood. Of course, you could only fit one at a time in a card case, and
    they were hell with the rolodex.
  created: '2006-07-25 13:21:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Did he supply a pair of tweezers for the splinters as well? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-25 13:31:43'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: If you had suggested that his work would produce splinters, he would have
    been very offended. The wood was planed, sanded, varnished, and buffed to a high
    gloss.
  created: '2006-07-25 18:57:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sorry Don, just a joke.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-25 19:56:06'
- author:
    name: timfm
    picture: 110404
  body: "I fancy trimming the card size down so it's of divine proportions: 1:1.618\r\n\r\nCan
    I get a AMEN?"
  created: '2006-07-26 22:59:55'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "no, you can't.\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com/identity.htm\">Solid
    Creative</a>"
  created: '2006-07-26 23:28:00'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Oh, c'mon. I'll give you an AMEN, Tim.
  created: '2006-07-26 23:53:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That was also a Divine Comedy Tim :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-27 00:45:23'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: 'I toss business cards that aren''t the "standard" size, but there''s always
    the choice to move to Artist Trading Cards (ATC): depending on the audience, there''s
    that option too, at least for those of us in an ATC-friendly market.'
  created: '2006-07-27 03:21:28'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "<cite>in switzerland, 85x54mm is a standard size often used for business-cards.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    is credit card size (give or take a millimetre) and I have a feeling 'standard'
    business cards are tending to move toward this size.."
  created: '2006-07-27 19:32:03'
- author:
    name: timfm
    picture: 110404
  body: "Okay Mr. Ducco,\r\n\r\nHow about an \"AUM?\""
  created: '2006-07-27 22:30:15'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "Hahahaha ... NO!! :P\r\n\r\nI'll give you a James Brown \"Watch meh\" though.\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Solid Creative</a>"
  created: '2006-07-27 23:31:10'
- author:
    name: timfm
    picture: 110404
  body: Paul D's gotta brand new bag!
  created: '2006-07-31 22:43:28'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "Keep yer eyes off my bag Tim!\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Design, Melbourne</a>"
  created: '2006-08-01 09:34:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Your living scateboard is getting a facelift courtesy of the pavement :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-01 12:41:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So here's a macro shot:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bcard_6716.jpg]\r\n\r\nBesides
    the burgundy paper I also did a batch on a dark grape stock,\r\nwhich didn't hold
    the ink as well but had somewhat better contrast.\r\n\r\nBTW, due to the overall
    low contrast I decided to increase the smaller\r\ntype size a bit, which caused
    the card to get larger: 3-1/4 by 1-3/4\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-15 04:45:05'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: oh i want one.
  created: '2006-08-15 08:12:29'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "Hrant, I also think yours is / became really nice.\r\nBut, Does it say 'www-themicrofoun..'
    on it?\r\n\r\nDav"
  created: '2006-08-15 09:11:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, it's a spam protection measure.\r\nAnd I also decided to shorten my
    last name.\r\n\r\nSeriously: the crop looked good on the camera's screen...  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-15 15:58:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Oh, or did you mean the \"www\" delimiter? It's a midpoint, not a dash.\r\nAlso,
    the \"www\" is ligated.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: dylan
      picture: 128368
    body: "\"Also, the 'www' is ligated.\"\r\n\r\nI agree \u2014 this execution for
      the 'www' makes tons of sense, especially given the familiarity of the three
      letters these days."
    created: '2006-08-16 21:45:14'
  created: '2006-08-15 16:04:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I almost made a special glyph with 4 \"v\"s, but got lazy.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-16 22:20:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hrant,\r\nWhat is the big symbol that looks like a T-square? Is that an Armenian
    glyph?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-16 22:51:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, it's a traditional brush-written form of the\r\nletter \"eh\", which
    has great spiritual resonance and\r\nmeaning in our culture; among other things,
    it means\r\n\"it is\". When I was deciding on a logo for my foundry\r\nmany years
    ago, it seemed the natural choice.\r\n\r\nBTW, the wine was Armenian too.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-16 23:04:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The wine eh :-) It is what it is.\r\nSo you chose to print rather than drink
    it? Some Armenian vinyard may be cursing you right now for that :-D\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-16 23:20:05'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: so what meanings does "it is" mean? What are some other meanings of it? Can
    we see the full eh?
  created: '2006-08-17 01:38:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It alludes to things like: let there be, being (both noun and verb), god,
    etc. But\r\nit's not just meaning, the letter eh's relevance to us is also...
    transcendental?\r\nFor example, above the khoran (altar) of every Armenian church
    (at least for Apostolics, who constitute the vast majority) you will find a large
    letter \"eh\" hovering, by itself.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-17 05:34:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I forgot:\r\nJesse, that's the letter \"eh\" and then some; the bar would
    typically\r\ngo just a bit beyond the bottom element; I've extended it to signify\r\nhorizontality
    and continuity. You could say my logo is boundless on\r\nthe right, it just gets
    cropped (or faded out, like on my site) as required\r\nby the medium - it's like
    a dynamic, living thing that compromises with\r\nits environment... Can somebody
    say \"massive post-rationalization\"?  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-17 18:43:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Trying to re-rail this thread:\r\nI'm proposing a business card design to
    a start-up sommelier, and came\r\nup with what I think is a nice squarish design
    (which plays very well\r\nwith the logo - which he's already approved) but it's
    like there's a mental\r\nblock in his head against anything non-standard size.
    I tried telling him\r\nthat memorability (especially in his case) and making the
    card look nice\r\naround the logo are more important than merely fitting in a
    rolodex,\r\nbut it seems to be of no use... Then I proposed a vertical card of
    standard\r\nsize, but no. Oh well, ugly card, comin' up!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-17 18:54:13'
- author:
    name: kco
    picture: 110793
  body: "Wow,\r\n\r\nSorry I haven't log back into Typophile too much lately I was
    out of town but thanks for all the replies, It did really clear my doubts and
    I will be very careful in the future deciding my size if not stick to the standard
    3.5 by 2.\r\nThis topic extended a lot and went on a lot of interesting tangents,
    by far the longest topic I ever created hehe. I will have to come back to read
    all with time. \r\n\r\nThanks Hrant for sharing!!!\r\n\r\nThanks All,\r\n\r\nCaco"
  created: '2006-08-17 21:44:14'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "Well if its a bit smaller than the standard it will fit in wallets easeir
    and still go into folios so thats my preference.\r\n\r\nThanks Hrant I like it.
    I've never been a fan of square business cards, but then I've only seen a few
    and they weren't designed well. One person used the same card for clothing tags
    as well and i thought they were useless. \r\n\r\nMaybe we need a showcase section
    of typophile to show off our work without asking for critiques and all that? It
    would be nice to see your card designs, but I don't know where you would post
    it atm lol."
  created: '2006-08-18 05:05:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "For that they have magazines - this here place lives on crits!\r\nOr used
    to...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-18 05:10:52'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "Lol. But I just meant it would be cool if people posted more of their design
    work in general. I think people might feel more open to posting their work in
    a showcase forum, even if they want crits on it. \r\n\r\nPlus the critique section
    is \"Typefaces on the chopping block\" Which of course makes sense seeing as this
    is a type forum :P But I still think it would be cool to see all of the finished
    pieces and some other works designed by typophiles also.\r\n\r\nJust a random
    thought for the night.\r\n-jesse"
  created: '2006-08-18 08:35:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There is a Typography and composition area here as well:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/forum/28\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-18 12:59:25'
- author:
    name: MattB
    picture: 111871
  body: Speaking of collecting and viewing business cards, there are <a href="http://www.flickr.com/search/?w=all&q=business+card&m=text">quite
    a few on Flickr</a>. 5,379 at the moment. Only a few are at all helpful or inspirational,
    but there are a few gems. Maybe someone would like to open a moderated group to
    collect the best?
  created: '2006-09-06 12:40:03'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Only a few are at all helpful or inspirational\r\n\r\nUnderstatement of
    the month. But thanks for the link."
  created: '2006-09-06 15:12:20'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: why don't you just start a thread on typophile with links to the best ones?
    That would be cool i think.
  created: '2006-09-06 16:22:24'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "There's a woman here in Montreal who makes books, boxes, and other things
    from handmade paper (what would one call her? hmmm) ... \r\n\r\nHer business card
    features little clippings of said paper glued onto the centre of a lovely regular
    BC-sized piece of handmade paper. Every card is different, though. Different background
    stock, different clippings. Has her name and number centred and below the clippings.
    I thought that was a pretty good way to showcase what she does. \r\n\r\nAlong
    the same lines, I make buttons. (If I had a scanner, I'd post.) And I go by \"dukwerks\"
    (I live in Quebec and was worried that \"Duckworks\" would not go over well).
    My business card is a hand-drawn duck looking and pointing at his belly. I sew
    a thin button onto the card right at the duck's belly button and give them out
    as samples of my work. \r\n\r\nK."
  created: '2006-09-06 19:14:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Kristina,\r\nSure would like to see one of those belly button cards! That
    sounds like a fun way to get your work known!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-06 19:24:41'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: ":) Thanks Chris.\r\n \r\nGotta get me a scanner. Or take pictures. I will.
    Promise!\r\n\r\nK.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-06 19:37:28'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Here is the card with a selection of my stuff. The font and typography are,
    please, to be ignored! Really. Please please please. \r\n\r\nMy boyfriend and
    I did this about 10 years ago when my knowledge of type was totally non-existant.
    But I think the duck with the button is still a nifty idea.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/selection_6094.jpg]\r\n\r\nK.\r\n\r\nPS
    I realize this is not a great quality picture. Sorry."
  created: '2006-09-06 20:46:24'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I'm reminded of a legend I once read somewhere:...\r\n\r\nThe more important
    a person is, the larger their card will be, and the less information it will reveal.
    For example, Charles deGaulle would leave a 5x7 inch card imprinted with only
    the word \"Charles\".\r\n\r\nI don't rremember where I read that or if the numbers
    are correct, or even if it's based in fact at all, but it's an interesting anectote. "
  created: '2006-10-16 22:26:35'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: Size matters, but weight and finish of paper is even more important for me.
  created: '2006-10-16 22:58:21'
date: '2006-07-18 05:36:08'
node_type: forum
title: Bussines card unusual sizing

---
