---
author:
  name: dave bailey
  picture: 128124
body: "So I posted a short time ago about my decision to redo my portfolio, I have
  \ since scrapped that idea and gone \xFCber simple. How does everyone feel about
  a scrolling format like this?\r\n\r\nhttp://dsinelab.net/dave/new/index.html"
comments:
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: what is real-world-work (part, all)
  created: '2006-07-20 19:28:07'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: I was wondering if I should seperate it, most are school projects. This is
    not all the samples just a number of placeholders to get a feel for how the site
    would navigate.
  created: '2006-07-20 19:29:30'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'You''ll never get web-design work based on that... I''d try to at least make
    the navigation/header look elegant. I think a web site (or business card, resume,
    tear sheet) is a designer''s face out into the world and really if you do something
    that looks totally generic and expect the work to "speak for itself", you run
    the risk of nobody going past a first glance. '
  created: '2006-07-20 20:18:25'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "couple of things about your artwork (if that's ok with you :) ) --\r\n\r\nJarhead
    is too abstract; and let's say something that is good for independent film festival,
    sundance, and alike. but not Hollywood. see the movies by Spielberg; he likes
    - images, and not any actor(s)\r\n\r\ncapote is too dark, grey; if you like  that
    digital style  -- and really nice idea with the gun -- try to change the background,
    so you can SEE the gun. \r\n"
  created: '2006-07-20 20:21:21'
- author:
    name: "\u2022Prakash Nair"
    picture: 111459
  body: you gotta separate that stuff. Perhaps tabs at the top? To show you like doing
    web-based design, use an interactive flash menu with an HTML album. And you need
    a self identity. Right now, its bland and grey and dull. There is no personality.
  created: '2006-07-20 21:05:57'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "Patty: Thanks, but I'm not trying to get web design work. I'm just putting
    a portfolio out there as a way to preview some of my work, because every Joe has
    a website now-a-days. Plus when you're a designer most people want to have a look
    at  your work and ask for your website, just trying to get prepared for graduation.
    In fact web design is the last of of my preferences for design work. How come
    everyone thinks I'm looking to do web?\r\n\r\nDavid: Thanks for the comments but
    the posters are pretty much done, our assignment was to abstract the idea of 2
    movies into illustrations, trying to stay away from any of the typical face shots
    and scene from movie + actors' names. I may go back and tweak them later on but
    it was only a 2 week project in the scheme of things.\r\n\r\nPrakish: Agree, I
    will seperate it once I figure out what I want to do. As I responded to Patty,
    my desire is for print work and NOT web design. I don't really want to work for
    myself when I get out of school, I tried doing something with a personal identity
    about a month ago and everyone just told me to scrap that and go simple with just
    my work. Weird.\r\n\r\nAnywho, just trying to get a general consensous. I'm not
    looking to get web design jobs or be a web developer and I'm not looking to create
    something that would be any sort of start up company, just FYI."
  created: '2006-07-21 02:10:31'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "It's just daunting to have work stacked upon itself like this. Use thumbnails,
    or have some navigation. Don't just dump all your work on a page, people are not
    going to have the patience to scroll down forever.\r\n\r\nI'm a pure print man
    too, good for you, web design is something I cannot relate to, but you need to
    present yourself a little better than this\u2026\r\n\r\nBest of Luck!\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-07-21 04:23:32'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: 'Paul: Exactly my point, I''ve taught myself a decent amount of hand coding
    for web design and taken a Macromedia Flash specific class but it all seems so
    foreign to me. This is why it''s taking me so long to figure this out. :-/ I know
    the header is drab, I figured the stacking of the work woudl be a little daunting
    but wanted to see your opinions. I''ll try to figure out the nav and header for
    the next revision. Ugh I just wanted to get this done and biz cards printed for
    TypeCon, I figure I''ll be meeting a lot of people and I''m graduating next year
    so any sort of help I can get as far as a job goes would be amazing. Thanks again
    for your honesty everyone.'
  created: '2006-07-21 06:00:17'
- author:
    name: "\u2022Prakash Nair"
    picture: 111459
  body: best of luck.
  created: '2006-07-21 06:12:22'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Hi David: just as an aside, you've got a typo there in \"Rollys Royce\"!\r\n\r\n_____________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2006-07-21 09:37:08'
- author:
    name: Addison Hall
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nI agree that you could incorporate more of an individual style,
    but it shouldn't overpower your work -- that's the focus. And I wouldn't worry
    about creating tabs and separating the types of work unless you can place at least
    5 samples within each category. If you're only going to show 5 to 10 samples,
    I think the scrolling works just fine. I read somehwere (I'd have to find the
    actual article) that users would much prefer to scroll than deal with something
    that's overly complicated -- even art directors. The technology should always
    be appropriate to the content...\r\n\r\nIf your objective was to show a few samples
    of your work, you've done just fine. But do work on the styling a little.\r\n\r\n-Addison"
  created: '2006-07-21 15:58:34'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I'm an AD and I disagree. A little nav is what you expect on the web and
    I don't like scrolling really, except for text. I think it should be simple but
    incorporate a little web savvy.\r\n\r\nBut that's just me\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-07-21 16:04:53'
- author:
    name: Addison Hall
  body: "I respect your opinion, Paul -- truth be told, everyone is different.\r\n\r\nBut,
    my perspective is that if David's goal is to create a quick overview of his best
    work (not his web knowledge), then he's accomplished that. Even the busiest person
    can take in his work in one screen without clicking through any superfluous navigation
    where they may or may not see something."
  created: '2006-07-21 16:33:31'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I'm a print designer too, but it doesn't matter, if you're a designer you
    need to put your best foot forward if you want people to give you a second look.
    If you can't/don't want to really design your web site perhaps you can barter
    with one of your web design classmates - you do their business card, they design
    you a simple but elegant nav. Nothing too fancy, no flash. Agree with Paul on
    the scrolling - you lose people that way. Maybe that's a matter of taste (see
    Addison).\r\n\r\nMy brother is a web wiz and his advice to me is that people like
    to feel in control when they are on a web site. That means making the navigation
    as clear as possible so they know where they are in the site and how to access
    the main menu without getting lost, and give them the tools to navigate their
    OWN way thru the site. One way to do this is small thumbnails they can click on
    or roll over to see larger images. \r\n\r\nI looked at so many resumes etc when
    I was an AD and if the initial presentation didn't grab me I tossed them. Same
    goes with web sites, I want to see your design sense right up front. Why waste
    that opportunity even if web design isn't your bag? "
  created: '2006-07-21 16:56:03'
- author:
    name: Addison Hall
  body: "This is good stuff...\r\n\r\nI work in print and web, and I must admit that
    I'm a bit tainted by a few usability books when it comes to web design.\r\n\r\nPatty,
    your brother is absolutely right, but one could argue that scrolling is a form
    of navigation -- it's built right into the browser! I'm not trying to imply that
    a thumnail nav would hurt the site, but with so few pieces, I don't think it's
    necessary.\r\n\r\nAs long as he polishes the presentation and posts his best projects,
    I think this setup could work very well. In fact, I would think that his work
    <em>is</em> his presentation.\r\n\r\nBTW -- I don't mean to suggest that I'm against
    making this a little fancier, but somehow I'm compelled to argue the other side.
    This is really interesting to me for some reason..."
  created: '2006-07-21 17:43:09'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I'm with Addison, 5 to 10 knockout samples in a scroll are far more effective
    than tabs or thumbnails (I should admit here that I am one of the people that
    advised David to go simple), however, I would include the facility to e-mail.
    \r\nFor a designer who knows they want to work in print, I would far rather see
    a few quality images than be impressed (more often not) by their web expertise,
    maybe you need to make it clear that that is your intention David.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-07-21 17:48:07'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "\u2026and thumbnail navigation is one of the most annoying methods of showing
    work.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-07-21 17:50:54'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I''m with Patty. When a book is about design, I judge it by its cover. Worse
    still, as a designer, I often flat out judge sites by there design. The content
    has to be super intriguing for me to stick around. '
  created: '2006-07-21 18:08:32'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "Thanks again! I know there's a difference of opinions on the nav but I really
    do hate thumbnails, agreeing with tim's previous opinion here. When I was on my
    co-op at RCA I consulted the two ADs there, showing them the scrolling method,
    and they both agreed it was much more straight forward. In fact one of them said
    it should be as simple as possible because any sort of fancy/flashy/complicated
    nav just puts him off, closing the page, if he's looking at print work online.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I do want to do is make an elegant header at least with only the necessary info,
    a link to my resume and an email address.\r\n\r\nThe other dilemna is I'd like
    to put some personal work in there so my friends can see what I'm doing. This
    might call for more than one section. I will definitely include an email address,
    besides the one in my Resume, that's a given!"
  created: '2006-07-21 18:11:19'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "There will always be differences of opinion but in my humble one, the minimum
    you should do is design your header better - more elegant and clean. It does your
    work a disservice as is.\r\n\r\nThat said - I will reiterate that IMHO you are
    wasting an opportunity here to showcase your design abilities. Why bring your
    work to a meeting in a brown paper bag when you could put it in a nice portfolio
    case? It's the same thing. \r\n\r\nThe work, no matter how good, does NOT speak
    for itself if the presentation is crappy.\r\n\r\nAnd even tho you are not a web
    designer you will find that clients are increasingly wanting a web presence as
    part of their identity. You can always hire out for the programming but you shouldn't
    absolutely rule out doing basic web design as part of your skill set."
  created: '2006-07-21 18:17:57'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: 'Patty: I appreciate the input, I''m by no means as experienced as most people
    here. Having only 2 years of design under my belt it''s a long road ahead. Interesting
    point though about the scrolling, when your page is scrolling as well...only horizontal,
    which I find to be less intuitive on the web than vertical. I understand we read
    (most of us) from left to right but the WWW is built in a vertical scrolling format.
    Opinions! :-D'
  created: '2006-07-21 18:24:04'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I actually did not design my own web site - the reasoning behind the horizontal
    scroll was to mimic the look of paging through a book. One of these days I'm going
    to redesign it because I don't like having frames or that scroll bar along the
    middle. I'm sure there's a way to hide that - have seen it done more elegantly
    - but the person who did the site didn't know how.\r\n\r\nI do get  a lot of positive
    feedback on it tho.\r\n\r\nI'm sorry if I sounded harsh above, but I really can't
    emphasize enough how important your initial presentation is. Art directors are
    inundated with portfolios and you really need to catch someone's eye right off
    the bat if you want them to look closer. And  your web presence needs to be an
    extension of your design identity."
  created: '2006-07-21 18:54:25'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "There is obviously differences but I see David's site as an extension of
    the older style of portfolio, window mounted, dove grey board, all done precisely
    and with the minimum of fuss beyond the work. Maybe the header is the sticking
    point, in the comparison I have made it would be the letter to a prospective employer,
    introducing yourself and inviting them to glance at some work before meeting them,
    I realise this is a bit prosaic and not entirely a true comparison.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-07-21 19:11:50'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I agree. No need for flash animation, etc. but when I saw sloppily mounted
    portfolios with bad typography it diminished the work. Same goes here. If David
    wants to go simple that's fine but make it look nice. And carry the graphics through
    to the business card, resume, and tear sheet.
  created: '2006-07-21 19:16:50'
- author:
    name: Addison Hall
  body: 100% agree -- good points.
  created: '2006-07-21 19:36:36'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"if you do something that looks totally generic and expect the work to 'speak
    for itself'\"\r\n\r\nI'd say the complete opposite. I don't care about the box
    your boards are in. I want to see your boards.\r\n\r\nSame goes for web sites.
    I don't want to have to turn off my speakers to look at your site. I don't want
    to wait for Flash to load to look at your site. I don't want to have to guess
    at mystery meat navigation to navigate your site. I don't want your site assuming
    it's OK to resize my browser. (All of the above seem par-for-the-course for design-firm
    and architecture firm web sites.)\r\n\r\nSo, all that said, I think simpler is
    definitely the way to go for a portfolio. Let me easily see the work without a
    lot of guessing and clicking.\r\n\r\nThe only suggestions I have for your site
    are:\r\n\r\n - give me an HTML version as an option for your resume\r\n - consider
    some more descriptive text for each project (if it's interesting/applicable).\r\n\r\nLooks
    good!\r\n\r\n\"To show you like doing web-based design, use an interactive flash
    menu\"\r\n\r\nThat just means you like making superfluous flash animations. Which,
    maybe you do, but don't confuse 'flash bells and whistles' = 'good web design'
    ;o)\r\n\r\n\"Agree with Paul on the scrolling - you lose people that way.\"\r\n\r\nI
    think that's an old wive's tale. While that may have been true in 1999, more recent
    user testing studies have shown that people are just fine with the concept of
    scrolling online."
  created: '2006-07-21 19:57:47'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: New header uploaded. I think the way I'm gonna solve this is split it into
    three sections with about 5 images in each but no thumbnails. The personal section
    may have more though as I like to be able to show people what I'm doing when I'm
    not working or designing for school. I really would like this script I drew of
    my name to be the 'Identity' and hopefully it would be memorable enough to use
    on this here website, my biz card and tear sheet.
  created: '2006-07-21 20:25:45'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "I redid some of my site and flash is fine except for IE Windows which now
    stops active content for automajically working, you have to click to activate.
    You can work around this but I figure let them click or use firefox or a mac.
    \r\n\r\nI used some guys Flash gallery thing for the images since it was already
    written and works fine. So why reinvent the wheel.\r\n\r\nwww.connare.com"
  created: '2006-07-22 11:49:27'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Dave,\r\n\r\nHuge improvement!  You have created a header that showcases
    your strengths and personality without being either too flashy or too forgettable.
    It's also expandable if you want to add another section down the road, you haven't
    boxed yourself in. The only thing I'd encourage you to do is to have a link at
    the bottom of each scroll/section that lets you jump right back to the top.\r\n\r\nAnd
    if your script is going to be your header, use it on the rest of your materials,
    be consistent with the fonts, and you're there.\r\n\r\nThis debate has definitely
    brought out some differing opinions re presentation!\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-25 03:36:22'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: Yes, I was planning on a little 'Top' link below each piece. It's pretty rought
    being a student here sometimes but I need lots of criticism to really understand
    where I'm at sometimes. I shall post the website when it's done! I've got a big
    smile on now, thanks Patty!
  created: '2006-07-25 03:46:48'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I  also think you need a "contact" link somewhere. And I'd do the resume in
    html with a downloadable pdf option (I think this was already suggested).
  created: '2006-07-25 15:49:58'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "A few random thoughts:\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>Flash is over-hyped and should
    be used sparingly, when it adds meaningful functionality to a site. I don't think
    your site would benefit from Flash at all. On the contrary.</li>\r\n\r\n<li>On
    the thumbnails vs. plain scroll issue, I don't see anything wrong with scrolling.
    Much more straightforward than thumbnails. Just because scrolling uses the most
    basic browser functionality, it doesn't mean it's bad. You don't need a cannon
    to kill an ant.</li>\r\n\r\n<li>Perhaps you could change the whole feel of your
    page/site simply by using another background colour. Black might make it more
    elegant, but then you'd have to work on some sort of a light frame for the images
    with dark edges. Maybe some kind of dark silver would be even better.</li>\r\n\r\n<li>Another
    extremely simple measure that could make the page less \"boring\" (for those who
    need to see the work presented in a luxurious box with plenty of padding as opposed
    to a plain paper bag, which would be just fine for me) is to not centre everything.
    As it is, everything is centred, even the structure of the header, and I think
    that's probably what's boring some people even if they think it's something else.</li>\r\n\r\n<li>Use
    CSS throughout to style your site/pages. Much more flexible and powerful, not
    to mention current.</li>\r\n\r\n<li>Test your page on both Internet Explorer and
    Mozilla-based browsers (especially Firefox). If it only works on IE, you'll piss
    some people off real bad.</li>\r\n</ul>"
  created: '2006-07-26 22:25:09'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: Thanks, Erik. Solid advice. I hope to have this working by sometime next week.
  created: '2006-07-26 23:08:52'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "I've uploaded much progress to: http://www.dsinelab.net/dave/index.html\r\n\r\nStill
    need to add 'Top' links and actually figure out what content I want on there.
    Also the PDF/link to it is missing on the bottom of the resume.\r\n\r\nI'm going
    to register my own domain as well, some options are:\r\n\r\ndavebailey.us\r\ndavebaileydesignsfor.us\r\ndbdf.us\r\ndavedesigns.us\r\ndavedesigns.org"
  created: '2006-08-02 04:05:12'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: Bumpdidy bump!
  created: '2006-08-02 16:30:58'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I think Erik might be confused, tho, and think that the \"boring\" comments
    refer to the redesign. For clarification, Erik, David had posted an earlier version
    with generic looking type on the header. He has since redesigned it and it looks
    great.\r\n\r\nDavid, I don't think I'd put the resume on the home page, tho. Maybe
    just the photo and quote. Or some images to wow them right off."
  created: '2006-08-02 22:01:46'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<code>Erik might be confused</code>\r\n\r\nVery possible. I first saw a site
    similar to the one I just saw again by following the link http://www.dsinelab.net/dave/index.html.
    Then a day or two later I followed a link that might have been different and landed
    on a page with thumbnails etc, more along the lines of what was suggested by the
    people who were against a simple scrolling page. Now I just saw the scrolling
    page again.\r\n\r\nAnyhow, my comment about how a \"fully-centred\" layout may
    be a bit boring still stands. Mind you, I didn't say I personally found it boring,
    but believe a more dynamic look can be achieved when everything's not centred.
    Of course then you have the problem of finding another way to align elements so
    as to maintain some kind of unity."
  created: '2006-08-02 23:34:18'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "Any thoughts on the URLs I mentioned? (been without internet for a day, so
    I finally trugged over to the labs to check this)\r\n\r\nShould I have a page
    for the resume, all by itself? (Trying to get this wrapped up and buisness cards
    made before I head home to TypeCon on Wed!)"
  created: '2006-08-03 20:08:09'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: I don't think you need your CV formatted as a web page -- a PDF is probably
    a better idea. But besides the link to the PDF way down at the bottom of the page,
    I would also put a link in the top menu. After all, you want to make it as easy
    as possible for interested parties to get a hold of your CV.
  created: '2006-08-03 20:44:25'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I disagree - I think you should have a page for the resume. The About link
    should be to the resume. I just wouldn't have it be your home page.
  created: '2006-08-03 20:48:55'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "Update, things are pretty final, except now I have to figure out content.
    Please crit the Resum\xE9 too please. :-D I've registered davebailey.us but haven't
    set it up yet, here's the link for now: www.dsinelab.net/dave/index.html"
  created: '2006-08-05 21:55:41'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "About the domain names, out of these, I would choose 'davebailey*us'. It
    may be the most common, but easier to remember, as well.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.dav.name\"
    target=\"_blank\">Dav</a>"
  created: '2006-08-06 08:12:01'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: Yup, that's what I registered! My thoughts exactly, Dav.
  created: '2006-08-06 08:41:32'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "Yea, I once had 'davidhubner*com' as one of my domains, but I forgot to renew
    it and then some dubious / shady company 'catched' / reregistered it and they
    now use it for advertising purposes. Lame & lousy little losers.\r\n\r\nSo, my
    advice for today: Never forget to renew that domain. :)\r\n<em>( Ooh, And, I wish
    you success, and fun, with your new 'name' on the net, of course. )</em>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.dav.name\" target=\"_blank\">Dav</a>"
  created: '2006-08-06 09:32:31'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "In the resum\xE9, I don't know the American convention but I would put the
    work experience in the opposite order (latest first and others in chronological
    order). Your on-screen cv has uppercase for RCA RECORDS, wheras the pdf has upper
    and lower case. I would move the subheads closer to their paragraph using the
    indent as the eye-catcher both seems excessive. Again this might be against local
    convention but it might be good to include some personal hobbies and interests
    (as long as you can discuss them with a potential employer).\r\n\u2013 Use fi
    and fl ligatures, \r\n\u2013 You use a hyphen in the awards line and an en-dash
    for anticipated graduation\r\n\u2013 Kern the brackets into the dates a bit\r\n\u2013
    The course work indent seems a bit wide\r\n\u2013 Change basic office work to
    office duties; and answering the phone and greeting and seating clients to client
    liaison and remove the wide spaces in that line\r\n\r\nBest of luck with the job
    hunting\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-08-06 10:48:01'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "Thanks, Dav. I have auto renew on my domain every two years for now.\r\n\r\nTim,
    I'll definitely make those changes, although your hyphen vs. en-dash suggestion
    was already in place. At least that's the case with the image, still need to check
    the PDF. I just needed to get it together and then figure out the necessary tweaks.
    This format is what was suggested by my professor that runs our 'Professional
    Practice' course which is all about resum\xE9s and job hunting etc."
  created: '2006-08-06 17:23:53'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I don\u2019t think you need your CV formatted as a web page \u2014 a PDF
    is probably a better idea.\"\r\n\r\nPDFs are great for people hiring you that
    only care about the layout.\r\nDOC files are great for people hring you that need
    to get the resume into their HR system.\r\nHTML files are great for those of use
    that just want to see your information without having to deal with downloading
    a separate file.\r\n\r\nIn otherwords, giving people the option of file formats
    is likely a good thing.\r\n\r\nI'd make the RESUME link go to an HTML page, on
    which you'd include links for both the PDF and DOC versions."
  created: '2006-08-07 16:03:16'
date: '2006-07-20 19:11:47'
node_type: forum
title: Portfolio Website Redesign (part deux)

---
