---
author:
  name: Deanna
body: "I posted a little while ago about my salon logo. I finally decided on a logo
  and had it refined. \r\nHowever, a friend mentioned a few things about the logo
  that were 'off' that I hadn't even  noticed. \r\nMy area is undergoing a revitalization
  of midcentury modern buildings. The area is starting to have a downtown lofty feeling.
  \r\nThe salon is modern..clean lines. Fairly simple. No fluff. I wanted it to appear
  unisex..not girly or flowery like some salons. I have a full clientelle- not looking
  for clients but I plan on hiring two stylists and hoped the salon would appeal to
  variety of people. \r\nThis is getting wordy. I don't want a \"bunch of blue haired
  shampoo set\" people working there..\r\nphotos of the salon if you're interested
  - http://share.shutterfly.com/action/welcome?sid=9AZMWrZw3asWu \r\n\r\nThe logo-[img:sites/default/files/old-images/png_4759.png]\r\nThe
  logo is on a black background ***only because I have dark windows and they kept
  giving me black lettering**** My sign guy said he could extract the logo from the
  black background since it really isn't part of the logo. The windows aren't black
  anyway, just dark.\r\n\r\nShe suggested stacking the words..since there is no heirarchy-
  ? I want people to know the name of the salon but I also want them to be driving
  by and go \"oh a salon\". \r\nI wish I would have had her do the logo but she's
  so busy.. \r\n\r\nI used an online company for the logo. It was a horrible experience
  - not sure I can mention the name here but it wasn't ebay. Local companies were
  out of my price range..maybe because it's Scottsdale. And by that I mean over 1500.00.
  NOT that they aren't worth it and good for them because they are obviously getting
  it. I just couldn't swing that. \r\n\r\nSo- having said all that- you won't hurt
  my feelings if you tear it apart...much. :)"
comments:
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I used an online company for the logo. It was a horrible experience - not
    sure I can mention the name here but it wasn\u2019t ebay.\"\r\n\r\nLogoworks?\r\n\r\n\"And
    by that I mean over 1500.00. NOT that they aren\u2019t worth it and good for them
    because they are obviously getting it. I just couldn\u2019t swing that.\"\r\n\r\nHow
    much is the signage + business cards + ads + brochures going to cost you? Often,
    the actual cost of designing the logo is the lesser cost.\r\n\r\nThe logo is OK,
    I guess. Two letters smashed together in a not entirely bad way. The type underneath
    doesn't seem terribly 'salonesque' though and appears to be more of a random typeface
    just slapped on there. The type, itself is also very small in proportion to the
    mark, so you might want to rethink the scale there for use in print. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: thought-well
      picture: 111786
    body: 'go here for more info: www.baddesignkills.com[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bdk_3571.gif]'
    created: '2006-07-28 02:33:32'
  created: '2006-07-25 22:12:56'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: The look is too sterile you  might as well be a doctors office. It isn't about
    sexy, hair and nails are about being sexy. Add an Illustrative element or two,
    how about some hair and nails! Make it more fun and less corporate. You are retail
    not corporate.
  created: '2006-07-25 22:20:33'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Going to the salon isn't always about hooker nails. ;^P\r\n\r\nIf the downtown
    area is reviving and feels mid-century modern it would be wrong to do something
    too playful or over the top.\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-25 22:28:11'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'I don''t agree Tiff you are dealing with drive by signage you need to be
    over the top. '
  created: '2006-07-25 22:33:26'
- author:
    name: Deanna
  body: "Dan- I didn't want something over the top in a \"hair\" way. I've seen logos
    with a swish of hair or a hand holding a rose and it looks cheap and girly. NOT
    that I'm not a girl but it's not me and it's not the salon. Did you have a chance
    to see the pictures? You don't have to log in to see them.\r\n\r\nI wanted hip,
    edgy, modern...not like a girly frilly salon. Does that make sense? Some salons
    just use a name like Verve, Rolfs...\r\nI think part of it could be the name it's
    not a real edgy name but I like the downtown aspect and it IS in downtown Scottsdale. "
  created: '2006-07-25 22:41:59'
- author:
    name: Deanna
  body: "Also- for my (personal) clientelle, I don't rely on any advertising. I'm
    as busy as I ever want to be. I'll be renting stylist stations out and usually
    people who rent don't have to advertise their services they're pretty full or
    rely on word of mouth....BUT I want clients to be able to find us. Most established
    salons book by appt..not by walk ins. And I want it to look cool. *laugh* That
    sounded juvenile. Does all that make sense?\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-25 22:45:46'
- author:
    name: Da Kine
    picture: 111014
  body: "I like it! It will be irresistable to yuppies, assuming there are any in
    Scottsdale.\r\nDK~"
  created: '2006-07-25 22:47:35'
- author:
    name: Deanna
  body: "Da Kine- thanks.Yeah many yuppies. \r\n\r\nDan..see? I like sterile. I like
    the word \"minimalist\" better. I don't know what that says about me but at least
    it comes across in the logo.\r\nI appreciate your comments though..thanks for
    taking the time to look and comment.\r\n\r\nIt was logoloft.\r\nThere I said it,
    it's out!\r\nthat was a little therapeutic. \r\nTheir customer service was great...they
    probably get a lot of practice."
  created: '2006-07-25 22:55:24'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "I think the mark works with the look the inside of the salon has - clean
    and simple. The typeface underneath looks dated though, and I don't like the letterspacing
    on the second line.\r\n\r\nI would go with a typeface like Ray Larabie's Neuropol,
    which would match the mark a little closer, and give the whole logo a newer feel.\r\n\r\n
    - Lex"
  created: '2006-07-26 07:43:37'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "There is a compressed feel to the top half of the s which is not reflected
    in the bottom half which has a smooth curve, this continues in the shape of the
    d between 9 and 12 o'clock, if that was cleaned up, I think the bottom left of
    the s could follow the curve of the d up a touch and maybe use the semi-circular
    terminal created where the d is covered by the s. Stacking and enlarging the copy
    would make sense and a better composition, definitely lose the tracking on hair
    & nails though.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-07-26 17:44:15'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: also, one other thought...if this is a salon, would it not make more sense
    to say 'salon' rather than 'hair and nails'. 'hair and nails' sounds kind of strip-mally.
  created: '2006-07-26 17:47:36'
- author:
    name: Deanna
  body: "aluminum...I wanted \"salon\" but the Azstate board of cosmetology and city
    decide whether names are too similar. They suggested \"hair cottage\". ??!!\r\nYeah,
    that's what ~I~ said. \r\nTim- I see exactly what you're talking about. I felt
    like the S was shortchanged and a friend pointed out that the white part was fatter
    than the skinny black part. technical terms right. Thanks for bearing with me.
    I obviously don't have an eye for design but can see that something is \"off\".\r\nBy
    tracking, do you mean ...a letter then a space..then a letter. Sorry I have NO
    idea what I'm really talking about...trying though!\r\n\r\n\r\nLex- because it's
    window signage, I was concerned about the thickness and visibility of the letters.
    I think that's why I accepted what I have. Do you think that the font you recommended
    is visible enough for window signage? It looks futuristic to me. Light years ahead
    of what is on the logo now but too techno? \r\n\r\nHere's the big question. I've
    approved the final logo so- should I pay the charge - I think it's 75.00 to have
    them change it? Should I cut and paste what you all have said and send it to them?
    They'll know for sure it wasn't my idea..but it doesn't matter.\r\nCan I fix it
    myself at kinkos? They have adobe..\r\n\r\nThanks for all the input. I really
    appreciate it. "
  created: '2006-07-26 21:49:00'
- author:
    name: Deanna
  body: "Half of my last comment isn't showing up but when I click to edit it, the
    rest of the comment is there.\r\n\r\nnevermind.gah!\r\n\r\nnevermind my broken
    post..not the questions about the logo.\r\nOh.my.\r\nIt's late."
  created: '2006-07-26 22:01:36'
- author:
    name: Arlo Vance
    picture: 111713
  body: "The suggestions for the changes on the typography and overall design of the
    logo are well-placed. After viewing the images of the salon, I thought of a few
    other things that might be helpful in branding the entire salon rather than just
    the logo.\r\n\r\n1. Elements of the logo should be distributed through the interior
    space to create a more memorable experience. I understand your desire for minimalism,
    and in this case, some tasteful interior elements would not detract from, but
    augment that ideal.\r\n\r\nFeel free to contact me if you have any questions about
    how to capitalize on the brand you have started to establish.\r\n\r\nIf you have
    access to editing software or know another designer that has access to the comments
    on this forum, it might be a good idea to contact them once you have received
    final files from \"the-online-company-who-cannot-be-named-but-has\" for any additional
    work. Good luck."
  created: '2006-07-27 18:31:51'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "You have defined tracking accurately enough, kerning is interletter spacing
    and tracking is spacing out (or in) a whole word or line. I imagine as a stylist
    you have an eye for composition and to some extent you can trust in other circumstances.\r\nYou
    could do some of the changes if you are confident with Illustrator but I would
    recommend approaching someone who works with it frequently (perhaps a client would
    exchange a style?).\r\nHair cottage:)\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-07-27 18:46:44'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "[ot]\r\n(en)\r\nHair cottage:)\r\n(de)\r\nHaarh\xFCtte :)\r\n[/ot]"
  created: '2006-07-27 19:15:26'
- author:
    name: Deanna
  body: "Arlo- I would love to hear your ideas. I haven't thought much about how to
    incorporate the logo into the salon because I've just started wrapping up the
    whole process. It's difficult for me to pull it all together because it's been
    so fragmented for such a long time. The remodel, branding..etc. \r\n\r\ntimd-
    I've copied the comments on this page and I'm going to take them to the printer.
    I don't have any of the programs needed to make the changes and wouldn't know
    what to do with them if I did. The printer has a graphic artist so I'll hit them
    up for the changes. I'll be using them to print my cards and brochures so hopefully
    their fee won't be astronomical. \r\nI have the the logo in all the formats required
    for any changes..eps tiff ai jpeg gif...so it shouldn't be a problem.\r\n\r\nI
    appreciate the feedback. I'll post the revised logo when it's all finished. \r\nThanks
    again everyone.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-28 05:16:14'
- author:
    name: Arlo Vance
    picture: 111713
  body: "Deanna,\r\n\r\nI'd love to assist in getting this venture off the ground
    on the right foot. Looks like you're headed in the right direction. Good luck
    with the finesses on the logo. I hope it turns out how you expect.\r\n\r\nYou
    can email me at arlo.vance@gmail.com with more of your ideas on what you expect
    for the rest of the salon and its branding. We can talk more there about some
    of the ideas I had in mind."
  created: '2006-07-28 18:39:21'
- author:
    name: hughfire
    picture: 109992
  body: As far as the overall feel - I think you are hitting it. Simple and clean
    on black is very upscale salon looking. As far as the naming goes Have you thought
    about something a little more concise. Many salons that are hip trendy have simple
    one word names (we have one here called hotlocks for instance) But you could go
    even ironic - something like flirt or stomp that has an attitude quality.  I wouldn't
    even have all that descriptor going on everywhere. I would assume that if you
    are like most high end salons 75% at least of your business is word of mouth referrals.
    Therefore being too over the top with signage isn't going to do you good (stay
    away from the FAUX NAGLE CLIP ART!!!! ARGH!). Instead use the sign to set the
    tone of what you are trying to accomplish from a brand standpoint. Tying your
    salon name to a location (ie downtown) makes it difficult if you ever wantto move/expand.The
    mark itself is what it is - two squished letters which can work in a pinch. My
    thoughts with salon and beauty marks is can you see a guy named Sven wearing the
    logo on a crisp black t-shirt as he gives you a color rinse (think Vidal Sassoon).
    I actually did a brand with a similar feel for a plastic surgeon (called IMAAGE
    - www.myimaage.com). On the typeography I would pick one word to play up more
    than the others. I would at least remove the SCOTTSDALE from the name. If you
    want to really get the hip upscale urban feel what about metro?
  created: '2006-08-01 21:39:50'
- author:
    name: Deanna
  body: "Hughfire-\r\nMy licenses and advertisements (yellow page)ad are all under
    \"downtown...\" I've been in the downtown scottsdale area since 1990. I don't
    plan on moving anytime soon but I did consider that when I chose the name. We're
    on Miller Rd and I thought perhaps I would just name the salon with Miller in
    the name. Too specific though even if I decided to stay in the downtown area.\r\n\r\nWe
    were \"Nails,Etc\" (purchased a salon that we worked in) and kept that name forever.
    We did nails and some tanning but no hair. My business partner moved out of town
    in January and I kept the space, totally remodeled and added hair stations. I
    knew that hair people wouldn't want to work at a \"nails,etc\". Frankly, no one
    likes to be \"etc\". So I chose Scottsdale Salon - which was taken. Scottsdale
    Hair & Nails...and figured I would still answer the phone \"scottsdale salon\".
    It was approved by the city and state and then the State Board of Cosmetology
    said it was too close to Salon de Scottsdale and I needed to add something to
    it. I was there, doing the final paperwork so I made some quick phone calls and
    came up with the \"downtown\". My yellow page contracts were due and I had to
    renew my licenses with the new name so I was pretty much stuck. \r\n\r\nIt's an
    established salon and you're right about word of mouth..that's where most of our
    clients come from.\r\nHonestly I thought that if I could get a cool enough logo,
    the long drawn out name wouldn't really matter. It would be just a formality...because
    of what we need on licenses and such. \r\n\r\nBtw, your imaage design is very
    cool. Also- love the name \"metro\"..but like I said..\r\n\r\nOur old name was
    horrible- or so I thought...as far as a coolness factor but for advertising- great.
    When people called information looking for a nail salon in scottsdale, ours was
    first to pop up. When a stylist is building a clientelle it's great for obtaining
    new clientelle. \r\n\r\nI have to admit, there are times when I think \"gah! I
    hate it all!\" and think about starting over. It's just been a long road with
    the remodel and then getting a decent logo has been an effin' nightmare. I've
    approved the final logo and now I have to go back and at the very least, make
    the changes that were mentioned on this forum. \r\n\r\nI had company for over
    a week and I was glad to live in complete denial of the whole mess...but now I
    have to get busy. This has been dragging on for 8 months.  \r\nI've put off hiring
    anyone or even placing an add to hire because I want the signage and branding
    done. \r\nI wouldn't want to work in a salon that was half done so I don't expect
    anyone else would want to either. \r\nSee? Here it comes...\"gah!....\"\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    it's more of a therapy issue than a logo issue...:)\r\n\r\nI appreciate all the
    comments and feedback. Thanks so much."
  created: '2006-08-01 22:28:58'
- author:
    name: adnix
    picture: 109591
  body: "The windows in your picture don't look that dark. Or are there different
    windows not pictured?\r\n\r\nUnless the bulk of the traffic passing by is pedestrian,
    I think the logo is too difficult to read from a car, even at slow parking lot
    speeds. I think a normal, not extended face will be more legible in that case.
    If it's a clean, modern, mid-twentieth century feel you're after, how about Futura
    or Neutraface--though surrounding business might go the same route.\r\n\r\nI do
    suggest talking to a legitimate designer. If you are upfront about budget restrictions,
    but also open to making an investment in your business, most independent designers
    should be able to work with you.\r\n\r\nGood luck."
  created: '2006-08-02 02:05:07'
- author:
    name: Deanna
  body: "This is one of the first drafts. I like the font but was concerned that it
    wouldn't be visible from the street because it was so thin. \r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo3b_5739.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    love the look of neutraface - in fact I've ordered my house numbers in that same
    font.\r\n\r\nadnix- The windows don't look dark from the inside but from the outside
    you can't even see in. Of course they aren't black but basically only white shows
    up well. The letters in orange will be more difficult to see...and I'm second
    guessing that.\r\nMany of the surrounding business haven't gone modern just yet.\r\nThey're
    still finding their \"tuscan\" roots. \r\nNOT that there's anything wrong with
    that...\r\n\r\nI assumed the designers online were legitimate and handed over
    my money. I was lured by the idea of more than one designer working on the logo.
    I thought for sure that if 3 or 4 people were working on it, I would have something
    great. \r\nRight now I'm just ready fix this one and get on with the business
    of being in business.\r\nI'm not discounting the importance of good design...but
    it's not a logo that invokes thoughts of bloody fingers or bad hair cuts..\r\nright?\r\n\r\nI
    was browsing the other logos today. I think I'm addicted to this place!"
  created: '2006-08-02 04:20:32'
- author:
    name: Deanna
  body: "just for fun....some of the logos that made me want to yank my hair out.\r\n\r\nRemember
    the windows are dark and I was very specific about clean modern lines. No swirls
    or frills\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logoloft4_6717.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logoloft15_3492.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1a_3450.jpg]"
  created: '2006-08-02 04:29:32'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I was lured by the idea of more than one designer working on the logo.
    I thought for sure that if 3 or 4 people were working on it, I would have something
    great.\"\r\n\r\n100 designers working for peanuts will rarely equal the efforts
    of one designer working with a decent budget and closely with the client.\r\n\r\nThose
    other logos, for the most part, are horrid...with one exception...what about the
    first logo and just loose the mark completely? Just stick with the type, or maybe
    add a very simple skyline mark above it. It would be a bit art deco-esque.\r\n\r\nA
    super-quick mock-up:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DT_4879.gif]"
  created: '2006-08-02 15:08:19'
- author:
    name: Deanna
  body: "aluminum..I like this one. The windows have just the type with an oversized
    ampersand. I felt like I needed it to be more..logo-ish. More identifiable.\r\n...I
    really like this one.."
  created: '2006-08-02 17:41:54'
- author:
    name: Duckworth
  body: "If you want to look up-market, how about a simple wordmark? It might suit
    better than generating a mark you're not entirely happy with. I agree with Tiffany's
    earlier post that you should steer clear of a playful approach. \r\n\r\nIt seems
    to be heading in a more upmarket direction with your latest iteration - not quite
    sure about the skyline, but maybe if you picked a rich, solid colour and relied
    on the typography alone, it would give you the upmarket feel you were looking
    for - certainly the logotogogo or whatever that did the first logo missed the
    mark.\r\n\r\nIt was really great that you posted the photos because it gives a
    feel of your salon and it looks contemporary and upmarket from the interior alone
    - i think it looks almost European somehow, it seems nice and refined. Your logo
    is important because it has to sync with the environment it's got to work in.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    look at a sans-serif typeface that isn't so Art Deco - I'm not quite sure that
    the Art Deco fits with the image your salon portrays. It could be something as
    simple as Helvetica or DIN, or a condensed Akzidenz Grotesque. If you wanted something
    with more to it, slab serif such as Serifa might be a good way to go. I really
    think a more minimal approach would suit your salon. I wouldn't be afraid of a
    thin typeface - if you use it on its own as a wordmark, you could make the type
    larger. If you use really heavy weights of type, it could cheapen the look.\r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2006-08-02 19:10:48'
- author:
    name: Deanna
  body: "Turns out that the guy at the printing company next door is a graphic artist.
    Yay! \r\nYou think he would have walked by my ugly windows long ago and made a
    barf face or something. Which would have been so professional. :)\r\n\r\nHe's
    tweaking my logo for me. I'm keeping the original. I like it, it needed some fixing
    but I basically like the idea. I'm horrible about asking everyone's opinion and
    then freaking out about my choice so I'm going to make the changes that were mentioned
    and \"stay the course\" so to speak. \r\nI'll share it with you when it's done.
    \r\nBtw, I was driving down the street yesterday and noticed that one of the renderings
    form thelogoloft.com was Desert Schools Federal Credit Union's logo. That would
    have been just fabulous.Lesson Learned! Thanks everyone.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo3d_6126.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/header_logo2_5099.gif]"
  created: '2006-08-08 22:33:34'
date: '2006-07-25 21:32:48'
node_type: forum
title: salon logo opinions

---
