---
author:
  name: Linda Cunningham
  picture: 111784
body: "Hi\r\n\r\nI'm currently working on a small square flexagon book that uses a
  quote  from Arthur Schopenhauer, the German philosopher from the early 1800s.  He's
  kind of a neat guy: his parents named him \"Arthur\" because it was a name that
  was the same in English, French, and German, and I'd sort of like to reflect that
  in the type I'm setting the book in.  \r\n\r\nAny suggestions?\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: What is a flexagon book?
  created: '2006-07-26 22:34:22'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "edit: heck.... a flexagon is a hexagon.... \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-26 22:44:05'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Maybe a book which page proportion is based on a hexagon?\r\n\r\nIn any case,
    my recent curiosity has been to look into how typefaces from different geographical
    regions differ from each other, so I'll definitely look into that again \u2013
    this time, to find their similarities :)"
  created: '2006-07-26 22:48:03'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "A flexagon is an interesting book structure that you can see at http://artistbooks.com/flexagons/index.html\r\n\r\nIt
    doesn't necessariy have to be a hexagon -- in fact, the one I'm working on is
    based on a square.  <grin>"
  created: '2006-07-26 23:13:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I had a look at my typeface names, and <strong><a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/shinn/eunoia\">Eunoia</a></strong>
    may fit the bill. It means \"beautiful thinking\". You'd have to check in some
    big dictionaries to find it, though, but as a Greek/Latin-derived word it could
    well be the same in all three languages.  I've also made a <strong><a href=\"http://www.shinntype.com/Eunoia_Text.pdf\">text</a></strong>
    version, which hasn't been released, but is available on request.\r\nClose is
    <strong><a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/agfa/paradigm\">Paradigm</a></strong>
    - Paradigme - Paradigma.\r\nWhat you could also do is go through a font name list,
    and translate promising names at <strong><a href=\"http://babelfish.altavista.digital.com/babelfish/tr\">Babelfish.</a></strong>\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Linda Cunningham
      picture: 111784
    body: "Well, \"Eunoia\" as a name fits, but as a face, it doesn't really work
      with either the text being set or relate to the author or his time, which is
      what the book artist wants.\r\n\r\nWhat we had discussed is something that is
      more reflective of the early/mid 1800s, and that would be at home in all three
      countries..."
    children:
    - author:
        name: mondoB
      body: "Linda, I have two perfect solutions:\r\n--early 1800s, Storm Foundry
        Walbaum, which is the most historically accurate and stylish of all of Walbaums\r\n--mid-1800s,
        ITC Bodoni Twelve, very mid-Victorian yet works perfectly and very legibly.\r\n\r\nMonotype
        Fournier, FF Acanthus, FF Reminga, Dwiggins' El Dorado from FontShop, Kennerley
        by Richard Beatty, and FF Maiola are also very stylish."
      created: '2006-09-09 23:50:34'
    created: '2006-07-27 02:12:38'
  created: '2006-07-26 23:26:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "In that case Justus Erich Walbaum, a contemporary of Schopenhauer, provides
    the answer.\r\nUnusual for a German face of that era, his type was not a blackletter,
    but a Modern Roman face, similar to Didot (France) or Scotch (Britain). An international
    sentiment.\r\nMonotype Walbaum and Berthold's Walbaum Standard are fine and elegant.\r\nStorm's
    is funky."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Linda Cunningham
      picture: 111784
    body: "Yeah, that's what I thought when I set the dummy as Monotype Walbaum: it
      just doesn't look quite right on the lightweight creamy kozo paper the artist
      has chosen in keeping with Schopenhauer's Buddist sensibilities.\r\n\r\nMaybe
      I'm trying too hard here: perhaps I should run dummies in Doric Bold and Hiroshige."
    created: '2006-07-27 21:42:36'
  created: '2006-07-27 04:03:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That would be rather cyncial, but if you're dealing with a \"book artist\"...\r\n\r\nAnyhow,
    Storm Type's Walbaum would probably be comfortable on that stock."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Linda Cunningham
      picture: 111784
    body: "That's a pretty cynical comment about book artists: you've obviously not
      had a good experience in the past.\r\n\r\nI'll have a look at Storm's: thanks!"
    created: '2006-07-28 19:25:12'
  created: '2006-07-28 16:48:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>cynical comment about book artists</em>\r\n\r\nWhat is the difference
    between a book artist and a graphic designer?"
  created: '2006-07-28 20:57:52'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "Book artists are visual artists who produce art works in the form of a book:
    \"Artist's Books\". The resulting objects are usually one of a kinds, like paintings
    or sculptures.\r\n\r\nGoogle has many links, here's one:\r\nhttp://www.cbbag.ca/BookArtsWeb/ArtistsBooks.html\r\n\r\nand
    an example:\r\nhttp://www.cbbag.ca/AB03web/Barton.html"
  created: '2006-07-29 17:36:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Right. No bad experience, just can't take Book Art seriously.
  created: '2006-07-29 18:36:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">can\u2019t take Book Art seriously\r\n\r\nI find Matisse's Art Book <a href=\"http://artbma.org/exhibitions/modernmasters.html\">Jazz</a>
    pretty awesome.  "
  created: '2006-07-29 21:21:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "OK, a major painter made a lovely art book in 1947.\r\n\r\nThis is alright
    now:\r\nhttp://www.davidsmall.com/ ... Illuminated manuscript."
  created: '2006-07-30 17:33:48'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: So, I'm just curious, how was that Hiroshige-Doric Bold combo working for
    you, Linda? It's a rather interesting combination -- both of them, in my opinion,
    seems to be one of those faces that you can't mix with anything until you've actually
    seen them in action.
  created: '2006-07-31 02:30:06'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Nick: if there's one thing I've learned in this process, it's not to diss
    anyone else's definition of \"art\"  -- and given my artistic life and experience,
    your comments are enough to get me to put you on my permanent \"ignore\" list.
    \ Given your remarks, I doubt we could agree on much, given that your first solution
    to almost everyone's typo  \"problem\" is Eunoia.  And comparing it to Helvetica
    and Univers is supposed to make me want to use it?  I don't think so....\r\n\r\nbrampitoyo:
    They're kinda interesting, actually: Doric Bold is the sans serif equivalent of
    Walbaum in a way -- same era, just not with serifs.  And Hiroshige has just that
    extra stroke width that the paper wants to be comfortable with -- kozo is funny
    that way.  \r\n\r\nBoth have the sort of interesting take that I was looking for
    in a font, instead of the obvious choice of Walbaum.  And I'd use one exclusively
    for the specific \"book\", although mixing the two in the collection has certainly
    crossed my mind.\r\n\r\nGiven that it's being run off as a square flexagon structure,
    there is the opportunity to run two other proportionatly smaller \"books\" (check
    out Alisa Golden's latest book), which will bear quotes from other German philosophers,
    and using more \"cross-temporal\" faces is be an interesting mix.\r\n\r\nOne of
    the reasons I posted this poser was to see if anyone else could come up with a
    more creative solution -- I guess I figured out what the answer is.  I must be
    a better typographer than I thought.  (amazed grin)\r\n\r\nThe best part that
    that they both look pretty interesting on the paper and print relatively well
    on my Epson R300, which will be used to do the editions (there will be one unique
    handlettered one with handcrafted covers, and an as-yet undetermined number of
    inkjet editions for general release).\r\n\r\nThis has been an interesting experience.\r\n\r\nCheers\r\nLinda\r\n\r\nP.S.
    \ And John -- thanks for the cbbag.ca links.  I'm not a Cabbager (which is what
    they call themselves), but I work with a bunch of them. (smile)"
  created: '2006-07-31 03:34:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Sorry Linda, I was bothered by the line of reasoning that went Schopenhauer
    ... Buddhism ... Japanese paper ... Hiroshige typeface. The final step seemed
    trite. But on reflection, and taking a look at Hiroshige (rather than relying
    on expectations prompted by the name), I see that there's nothing pseudo-Japanese
    about the face. So once again, my apologies -- and good choice!
  created: '2006-07-31 06:17:12'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Often times, the best solutions tend to be closer to home than one might
    think, Linda.\r\n\r\nMy apologies, too, for not coming out with any solution to
    your problem. Apparently, my recent interest had only brought me to examine (and
    thus, respect) the individual and geographic charm of a typeface, not the similarities
    between them.\r\n\r\nAnyways, this has been am interesting discussion on type
    selection, art book appreciation -- and Cabbager :)"
  created: '2006-07-31 18:47:14'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Nick: you need some experience. I started in typography in the late 80s and
    never assumed that I knew everything either.  \r\n\r\nbrampitoyo: It's a fascinating
    path we all take in learning about lettering. My first Mac was  an SE20 bought
    in 1987 -- I thought life was amazing because I had a 20MB drive and could run
    PageMaker -- and I'm now running OSX, CS2, and a reasonable digital camera.  I
    guess we define ourselves by how we move along, through, and with, technology.
    \ \r\n\r\nEvery typeface has redeeming features, assuming we know what to do with
    it, and as others have noted, everything old is new again.  This afternoon, I
    finished Simon Loxley's \"Type\" book, and found it most fascinating: I highly
    recommend it.  \r\n\r\nL."
  created: '2006-08-03 04:14:55'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "An update on this project:  the square flexagon is a really neat structure
    to work with, and I have managed to get three progressively smaller ones out of
    an 8\" square of paper.  The biggest one is the Schopenhauer quote, which ends
    up being a \"book\" 4\" square, and is set in 30 pt Hiroshige Medium Italic, centred,
    with the author name set right at 18 pt.\r\n\r\nInside this one (you cut a hole
    in the centre of the paper to construct the big one), is a smaller quote from
    Simon Loxley about art, set in 18 pt Oblique Regular, and makes a book 2\" square.\r\n\r\nAnd
    inside *that*, is a little 1\" book with a quote consisting of eight words pulled
    from playing with a magnetic poetry kit, set in 10 pt Herculaneum.  <grin>\r\n\r\nThe
    dummies look great, and we hope to be editioning them on the kozo paper sometime
    next week.  I'll try and get some pictures up.\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-08-09 21:17:35'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Whoa, diagrams, die cuts and a magnetic poetry kit! It's about time :)\r\n\r\nI'm
    dying to see the pictures. By to by, I'm still not entirely clear on that flexagon
    construction. Penta and hexagon construction I know. Is that any different?"
  created: '2006-08-09 21:45:17'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Have a look at the flexagon link I posted up earlier, particularly his Mexican
    one.  It's a little hard to just try to describe it with words, but I'll try.
    \ You might also want to Google \"square flexagon\" and see if there's a Java
    page somewhere that shows how it works.\r\n\r\nThink of a very small book with
    eight \"pages\" in four spreads, and each spread has a horizontal break (kind
    of the anti-gutter!).\r\n\r\nOK, to \"read\" the book, you fold it backwards,
    give it a quarter-turn counter-clockwise, and \"open\" the next spread.  Repeat
    around.  \r\n\r\nThe niftiest thing is you can keep doing it endlessly, because
    of the way the \"pages\" are imposed on the original sheet, the hole you cut in
    the middle, and the four spots you glue together.\r\n\r\nLinda\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-10 20:48:26'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Oops, apparently I missed on checking that link before asking you about the
    book layout. Anyways, I will scrutinize 'em over the weekends and see what I got.\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nBram
    P."
  created: '2006-08-12 08:39:24'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I've got an \"oops\" too: the second \"book\" is set in Optima Regular, not
    \"Oblique\" -- not quite sure where that came from.... ;-)\r\n\r\nL."
  created: '2006-08-13 20:31:51'
- author:
    name: Stefan H
    picture: 109742
  body: "\u201DThis afternoon, I finished Simon Loxley\u2019s \u201CType\u201D book,
    and found it most fascinating: I highly recommend it.\u201D\r\n\r\nA bit off topic;\r\n\r\nI
    just love the fact that people think so differnet. I thought I heard of this book
    somewhere before and remembered it was a review from Eye...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.eyemagazine.com/review.php?id=119&rid=549\r\n\r\nNow
    this contrast makes actually makes me wanna read the book :-)"
  created: '2006-08-13 21:21:12'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "As promised, a photo of the dummies...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dummies_6020.JPG]\r\n\r\nGot
    a kick out of the Eye review: perhaps for an \"expert\" it's a terrible book,
    but as a light summer read for someone who isn't perfect either, I liked it.  Did
    I learn something I didn't know before?  Sure.  Was a disappointed there wasn't
    more/better type examples?  You bet!  Doesn't mean it wan't worth my time..."
  created: '2006-08-15 17:34:11'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "That is just way cool.\r\n\r\nOut of curiosity, I wonder if you could actually
    fit a lot of content without sacrificing readability using that format, and if
    you could make the reading process flow seamlessly."
  created: '2006-08-17 02:00:38'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Yeah, it is, isn't it? (heehee)\r\n\r\nDepending on the size you start with,
    I don't see why not.  Keep in mind I got all of these out of one 8 x 8 in sheet.
    \ If you started out with paper considerably larger, and ran the type in 10 or
    12 pt in columns, there's no reason why you couldn't do something substantial.\r\n\r\nGranted,
    I'd want a fair number of illustrations to break up the blocks, but that's not
    exactly a \"type\" issue....  :-)\r\n\r\nIt's actually pretty seamless in the
    reading, once you get the hang of it: you get to the end and turn the page ---
    it's just that \"turn the page\" isn't what we traditionally think of.\r\n\r\nL."
  created: '2006-08-17 03:42:18'
- author:
    name: Stefan H
    picture: 109742
  body: "Linda,\r\n\r\nI like it too.  Just like an herbarium with letters nailed
    down with pins. I remember I've done that myself some years ago, just to see how
    it would look..."
  created: '2006-08-17 10:13:03'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I really like the image of \"herbarium with letters nailed down with pins\"
    except that one needs to be careful that it doesn't end up looking like a ransom
    note or terrorist threat.\r\n\r\nEspecially in this day and age of airline travel....
    \ ;-P"
  created: '2006-08-17 17:24:02'
- author:
    name: Stefan H
    picture: 109742
  body: "Linda,\r\n\r\nI have my Herbarium at work (probably with a pile of dust on
    top). I'll try to take a picture of it and post it here ASAP...\r\n\r\nYeah you're
    right about the \"terrosist hysteria\" these days. I bet the will exclude the
    toothpick in the lunch/dinner pack any day now!"
  created: '2006-08-17 18:24:32'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "More Flexagonic goodness!\r\n\r\nBy to by, has there been any type specimen,
    famous for its exploratory format, set in something like this? It's underlying
    grid structure, I think, is perfect for setting text in various faces and sizes."
  created: '2006-08-17 19:26:51'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Stephan: I look forward to seeing it!  (The way things are going, we won't
    be able to take a chicken salad sandwich on board because we can remove the mayo
    and make a bomb.)\r\n\r\nBram: That's a neat idea: in flexing the book and reading
    it aloud, it sets up a rather interesting rhythm. It's got to be that grid structure....
    \ :-)"
  created: '2006-08-17 19:52:45'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Bram\r\n\r\nWhat you really want for type specimens is a volvelles -- you
    know those artist colour wheels, where you point the outside arrow at the colour,
    and various cutouts contain what you get when you add the complement, or white,
    or black, or whatever?\r\n\r\nGoogle \"volvelles\" and see what you get!"
  created: '2006-08-18 03:42:05'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "Recently, I discovered I live in the same city as Linda. So I arranged to
    view her flexagon. Thought I'd give you an update:\r\n\r\nI never really understood
    the mechanics of the flexagon until Linda [1] showed me how it was built, [2]
    showed me a finished dummy and turned the 'pages' (still no comprehension on my
    part), and finally [3] let me hold the book and work it out (with careful explanation
    and encouragement from Linda). Then I got it!!!\r\n\r\nIt's very cool.\r\n\r\nIt
    requires considerable hand-work to assemble (I'm thinking of commercial applications
    here) and needs the reader to be flexagon-savvy, but it offers a unique and interesting
    way of presenting information. It imparts to the reader a sense of 'discovery'
    in that, by manipulating the book, the reader reveals a new, hidden, 'page'.\r\n\r\nThank
    you, Linda, for sharing this technique with us.\r\n\r\nCheers, Ken\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-05 23:22:09'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "I think the flexagon construction deserves a place of its own. Unfortunately,
    because it's so intricate, one has to see it for oneself to make a truly good
    judgement on it.\r\n\r\nThis, of course, opens up the possibility of having the
    flexagon as a topic on next year's TypeCon!"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Linda Cunningham
      picture: 111784
    body: "There are exceptionally interesting forms, aren't they? ;-)  If someone
      wants to pay my airfare, I'll be there!\r\n\r\nWhat I find fascinating about
      non-traditional \"book\" forms is how they force designers into looking at different
      ways of presenting information. It's not enough to simply go \"oh, ho hum, I've
      got this text to set so I'm just going to fire up Palatino, or Times, or Arial.\"\r\n\r\nWhich
      is a good thing, I think.  Whatever it takes to get those creative juices fired
      up....\r\n\r\nKen makes a good point about it being somewhat impractical for
      \"commercial\" use, though.  I can remember a time when I saw several books
      with volvelles on the cover (does anyone else have a dog-eared copy of \"The
      Star Trek Compendium\"?) but you hardly do anymore because of cost.\r\n\r\nBummer."
    created: '2006-09-09 21:16:07'
  created: '2006-09-06 06:00:59'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "I totally agree with you, although traditional book design certainly goes
    far beyond the matter of choosing a face. In fact, I think we typographers need
    to dip into information design. Studying spaces and how they are organized can
    give us some great inspiration in book and layout design.\r\n\r\nBy to by, Star
    Trek was just having its 40th anniversary :)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Linda Cunningham
      picture: 111784
    body: "<em>By to by, Star Trek was just having its 40th anniversary :)</em>\r\n\r\nYeah,
      I know.  ;-)  (Gasp, I remember the original series in its inaugural run!)\r\n\r\nI
      really like <em>Information Architecture for the World Wide Web</em>, although
      it's getting dated, but I think it does an interesting job in looking at how
      to put together things in the non-linear world -- books like flexagons have
      a linearity (is that a word?) about them, but not all of them do.  \r\n\r\nPlus
      it's important to think about other incarnations one's work might take -- yesterday's
      print newsletter is today's PDF/web page is tomorrow's who-knows-what....\r\n\r\nBack
      when I did my thesis, I looked at making hockey arenas more accessible to folks
      with hearing and visual-perception problems. Besides fonts and colours, and
      speaker systems and carpets, it was important to look at how these things interacted:
      you could have a great sign in a useless combo of colours and still not get
      the point across (whatever the \"point\" was!) to the user, for example.\r\n\r\nIn
      that regard, I recently picked up the revised (second) edition of <em>Inquiry
      by Design: Enviromental/Behavior/Neuroscience in Architecture, Interiors, Landscape,
      and Planning</em> by John Zeisel (ISBN 0-393-73184-7, paperback), that others
      might find interesting.  I found the original useful in my research, and am
      looking forward to sitting down with the new one."
    created: '2006-09-10 00:50:40'
  created: '2006-09-09 22:50:05'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Ahem. It is Dwiggins's <a href="http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Eldorado">Eldorado</a>
    from Font Bureau. ;^)
  created: '2006-09-10 06:18:26'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Ahem. That presumes that I looked at alternatives after I set the text a
    month ago....   \r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2006-09-11 03:03:26'
date: '2006-07-26 22:07:43'
title: Setting Schopenhauer

---
