---
author:
  name: '.00'
body: "We are in the process of designing our type catalog and I was wondering what
  you all would like to see in a type specimen.\r\n\r\nYour thoughts are always much
  appreciated.\r\n\r\nJames"
comments:
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Good question. Easy answer is that it all depends on the type. It is interesting
    to see some actual text set that mixes ital and book etc. I like to see what the
    type designers intend as far as usage. Max size, minimum size, but also stretch
    the possibilities. Maybe a book face can work for headings up to a point, but
    what is that point where it begins to look to heavy or show too much. If you can
    show a face used well, and also hint at the limits of its use, that to me is very
    helpful.\r\n\r\nI also find the descriptive texts on Storm's pages to be very
    interesting.\r\n\r\nWhat a fun project."
  created: '2006-07-28 02:11:24'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Character Sets. Always show full (or nearly full) character sets. Before
    our FontFont PDFs we'd get complaints that folks didn't know the ampersand would
    look like <em>that</em>!\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/stewf/199974971/\">Examples
    of the font in use</a> on physical objects -- preferably 3D and photographed --
    always lend the typeface some credibility. The buyer can imagine it actually doing
    a real job.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://flickr.com/groups/type_specimen/pool/\">Here
    are some specimens, old and new, for inspiration.</a>"
  created: '2006-07-28 02:35:03'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I second Stephen's comment about character sets: when I bought my first Adobe
    Postscript Font Type Handbook, it was because it had full sets and I could pull
    out something specific (ampersands, etc.\r\n\r\nAnd I like the \"in use\" thought
    as well, particularly if you can show some varied applications: books, posters,
    newsletters.  Doesn't matter if even the text is greeked, it would be nice to
    see a few head levels in action."
  created: '2006-07-28 02:55:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Examples of the font in use on physical objects \r\n\r\nSpot on. If you
    think the font would look good on the side of a NASA rocket or Formula 1 car mock
    it up. "
  created: '2006-07-28 03:49:11'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: "I think Storm's downloadable PDFs for text fonts are very helpful. They show
    the type in all the variants in a variety of sizes. Print them well on a laser
    and you have an easy way to make exact comparisons. http://www.stormtype.com/expert/jat.html\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-28 04:16:15'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hi there:\r\nIf you have ornaments show them all please! And if you make
    a PDF specimen- DO NOT PLOP A JPG or TIFF image in the PDF! Show the specimen
    un-rasterized. Enshende does this and its very stupid!!! Also if a certain font
    has an unusual detail show a close up so we a appreciate your work even more so
    than we normally do. ;-) Also the story behind it is cool too.\r\n\r\nBest Wishes,\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2006-07-28 04:23:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">NOT PLOP A JPG or TIFF image in the PDF! Show the specimen un-rasterized.
    Enshende does this and its very stupid!!!\r\n\r\nNot stupid, fear of piracy -
    paranoia or not."
  created: '2006-07-28 04:50:26'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: I'll call it misinformed paranoia. The fonts will always get in the hands
    of pirates. Instead of spending your time and energy combating inevitable piracy,
    concentrate on giving true buyers a quality, unfettered look at your fonts.
  created: '2006-07-28 05:42:44'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: 'Caution needs to be exercised with the full character set showings. Too often
    type catalogs are full character sets only and the families seem to flatten in
    the process. There are no details, spikes, memorable moments or... surprises.
    The sets need to be shown in entirety but it is only a fraction of the final product.
    I don''t want to be blown away, but after shaking hands with a font, I''d like
    to ask it more than one question. '
  created: '2006-07-28 13:53:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am glad you are thinking about this James. In this day and age, there are
    few printed specimens to be found. \r\n\r\nFor text faces, I like to see a column
    of text in the target text sizes as well as some semi-display usage.  I also like
    to see some italic and bold mixed in to the text to see how it fits with the roman.
    \r\nDisplay faces  need more \"in use\" kinds of stuff. For ads show ads, For
    signage, show signs...\r\nFor the character set, I would like to see at least
    one glyph showing with each diacritc.  I mean if you show a u umlaut, you don't
    need to show every other umlaut used.  I would also want to see a list of languages
    the font can be set in.\r\nSometimes, when talking with a clent about type, I
    like to show them samples.  This is where a good speciman can work as a sales
    tool. If I am trying to convince a client to purchase a font, it helps to have
    some really beautiful printed stuff to use as a way to visualize it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-28 15:02:21'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Listen to you Chris! I year goes by and you start peddlin' fonts! You go
    boy!\r\n\r\nJames, in addition to the suggestion already made, I second the type
    in use thing. Your Clearview Highway presentation is perfect for such a typeface.
    However, I would like to see samples of Clearview One and some of your other typefaces
    in use in magazines and other places. Your PDF samples set in copy are great."
  created: '2006-07-28 17:36:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "TERRY!!! \r\nBout time you showed your face here again!\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-28 18:14:02'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "This is a very timely question for me. All your replies are appreciated.
    List of languages = terrific! Now that OpenType is upon us, it's no longer a simple
    matter to understand what a given charset offers: Pro might mean different things
    from different foundries. \r\n\r\nOpenType format doesn't guarantee the presence
    of any particular glyphs. Therefore, discuss/show what glyphs are included in
    the various formats offered. \r\n\r\nThat brings up a question: What formats to
    offer? If there's a huge glyph set and lots of features in the OT version, do
    people feel compelled to make all those glyphs available in separate fonts in
    the PS or TT versions? Or should we be pushing people toward OT by making them
    available only in OT fonts? \r\n\r\nI'm most informed by real-world uses of the
    various cuts. Show real text in the text weights, show signs, packaging, layouts
    in the display weights. House Industries recent United specimen shows packaging,
    magazine layouts, etc. and it's very useful to see the type integrated in its
    context. \r\n\r\nI hope Norbert will weigh in."
  created: '2006-07-28 18:18:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "As a type user, I only will purchase opentype fonts from now on. It is so
    much easier to deal with than the \"Expert Set\" trainride. The folks who just
    use type in word processing may not care about opentype features though so know
    your market as well.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-28 18:24:38'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Did anyone above (I only skimmed) mention the need for block setting in different
    sizes? Choosing text for a book (and other things as well) requires a selection
    of text set in various sizes so color and feel can be judged effectively. 8/10,
    9/10 or 11, 10/12, etc. You don't need to do all combinations but the ones that
    seem suitable for the style of type.\r\n\r\n(Of course, for display only fonts,
    this would not be needed.) For that type of thing I really like the display pages
    that Adobe and other publishers include in their type books.)"
  created: '2006-07-28 20:22:27'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "If it is a single sheet, and I don't get a PDF, I do want to see the entire
    characterset, but it can be small as I also really like to see it in action. Some
    letters hide there flaws until they are actually used. If a designer doesn't show
    it in use I'd question why. \r\n\r\nMy 2\xA2"
  created: '2006-07-28 21:06:13'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I'll add that if it is for a script typeface and it is a single sheet I'd
    much rather see it in action. (But this assumes that I can access a type tester
    and the entire glyph set elsewhere.)
  created: '2006-07-28 21:22:24'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "ChrisL is dead-on: OTF is the way to go.  Don't ask how many \"ExpertSets\"
    I have either!\r\n\r\nThe only languages I've set so far are French and English,
    but that doesn't stop me from wanting to know what else is available.  Who knows,
    I may set some Icelandic runes some day? (haha)"
  created: '2006-07-31 03:49:16'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "The Dutch Type Library has some wonderful specimens. They show individual
    glyphs, entire chaacter sets, text set in paragraphs at various sizes. House tends
    not to show entire character sets but they do show the fonts in 'use'- and their
    catalogs are sooo pretty. The Neutraface catalog is what I would consider a perfect
    ten- the benchmark for all specimens.\r\n\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2006-08-01 04:47:57'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "An overview of allowed use. Since EULAs differ from foundry to foundry, perhaps
    even between individual fonts, the confusion is great as to which restrictions
    of use apply in a particular case. Like one would want an overview of all the
    languages for which the font can be used, a similar overview (be it brief, using
    pictograms or so) of the license characteristics would be useful: \"printed material
    only | pdf embedding allowed | modifying allowed\" &c.\r\n\r\nAlso, an indication
    of price would be interesting; like paper suppliers do in their specimens, one
    could rate a font license (e.g. 1\u20135 users) on a scale from \u20AC/$ <25,-
    (cheap) to \u20AC/$ >2.000,- (expensive).\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-12 19:33:31'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Well, our new catalog finally came out a few weeks ago and has been sent
    out to our mailing list. If you are interested in receiving one, please sign up:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.terminaldesign.com/joinmailing/\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2007-04-17 18:55:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks James!\r\nI look forward to seeing it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-17 18:59:20'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I just got it the catalog. I really like it! I am finding the type designs
    are very attrative but also oddly challenging in a way I am working to understand
    better. Maybe it's because they are display oriented & I have been in a text mindset
    for the last 3 months... \r\n\r\nI really enjoyed seening the type in use. They
    eloquently show many things that the sample pages can't. On the sample pages the
    layouts where the text is presented larger on one line & then smaller underneath
    seem the most useful and attractive to me. \r\n\r\nThe quibble I have re: the
    smaple pages is that I would like there to be a bit more bounding space around
    the sample pages. I find that they have a slightly breathless quality because
    of their tight fit.\r\n\r\nTo me the most striking thing about seeing the catalog
    was that somehow the best qualities of James' fonts seem lend themselves especially
    to print. Conversely it seems like these same qualities are unfairly not nearly
    as apparent on screen.  \r\n\r\nI wonder if this is because he is designing with
    print in mind to begin with, maybe it's the impact of his high rez proofing device,
    or perhaps it has to do with the fundamental nature of qualities in type that
    interest him. \r\n\r\nCertainly plenty of type I have seen on screen & then printed
    for a better look has ended up feeling a bit 'punchier' than I would like in print.
    Whereas it was that punchiness that made it seem interesting or lively on screen.\r\n\r\nDoes
    anybody else see what I mean or am I the only one? \r\n\r\nJames, what do you
    think?"
  created: '2007-04-17 19:39:11'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I'm glad you liked the catalog Eben,\r\n\r\nI do design with print in mind,
    specifically publications since I spent most of the first 12 years of my career
    in magazines. \r\n\r\nAs to the types being for display, I guess the catalog does
    show them in a display setting, but they also work well in text. I do like putting
    a lot of subtle details in the designs that only reveal themselves in larger sizes,
    but that doesn't seem to interfere with their functioning in text applications.
    \r\n\r\nThe next catalog, due in September, will be very text oriented. \r\n\r\nAs
    to the tight space on the showings page, perhaps we could have been more generous
    with the white space in a larger format, but for this one breathless will have
    to do.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2007-04-17 19:57:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben,\r\nI can never judge type on screen that is meant for print. It just
    does not show what is there. Since I very rarely do anything for screen only,
    I tend to think print first. Even my 600dpi laser (fake rezed to 1200) is only
    an indication. This matters more for small type certainly but even large type
    never gets the true crisp feeling that real 2400dpi delivers. That is why a good
    speciman sheet is so valuable. The hard part is that the expense of producing
    and shipping is so much more than just posting a PDF that most type vendors don't
    bother any more. I hate to talk about the old days but there was a time when my
    mailbox got filled with well printed samples of type. The downside was that there
    were far fewer faces and typesetting was quite costly compared with today's bargain
    prices.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-17 20:12:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Eben, just like in small vs large type the lesser definition of the screen
    dilutes both specific letterform features and the character of the design.\r\n\r\nBTW
    James I think you've underestimated the traffic from Typophile: I had trouble
    getting through to your page! But that's a great problem to have.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-17 20:43:48'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "It appears the web access problem has been corrected.\r\n\r\nJame"
  created: '2007-04-17 20:52:25'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Having read about Bram de Does and the extreme specificity of his design
    & intent is probably playing a role in my thinking/observation too. \r\n\r\nHere
    is a link to that thread if you like:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/32938\r\n\r\n<cite>
    I do like putting a lot of subtle details in the designs that only reveal themselves
    in larger sizes, but that doesn\u2019t seem to interfere with their functioning
    in text applications. </cite>\r\n\r\nI see that that is quite true - from the
    print on the inside cover. Although to different degrees of course depending on
    the face. Clearly I overstated or oversimplified what I meant to say. While it
    is true that I probably wouldn't set a book in any of these faces - I would be
    more than pleased to set a magazine or article in one. So again to clarify I think
    what I was getting at is that there is a lively quality, and an optimism and a
    can-do feeling to all the faces (even in Rawlinson & Alfon) which in larger sizes
    is more apparent. These qualities attract my eye and makes me think 'Headline'.
    \r\n\r\nBut re-reading what you wrote makes me wonder. Are you at all interested
    in expanding these families into optically optimised versions as well or are you
    content to design for excellent cross-size compatibility? I also imagine that
    optical specific design might be reserved for custom work.\r\n\r\n<cite>... the
    lesser definition of the screen dilutes both specific letterform features and
    the character of the design. </cite>\r\n\r\nYes. I had already seen the ways in
    which screen oriented type was at a disadvantage in print before but recently
    I have been especially taken with the way that print oriented type can suffer
    from the screen.\r\n\r\nWhat it makes me realize is that for a foundry that is
    oriented to selling to the general public or to designers (rather than to custom
    type/print clients), it really does behoove them to bend to the screen, in part
    because the fonts will probably be seen there first before they are bought and
    in part because use in that context is pretty likely as well. But this also means
    that print oriented type might benefit from marketing that encourages/educates
    a prospective buyer to evaluate the font more relevant ways. \r\n\r\n<cite>I can
    never judge type on screen that is meant for print.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes. Clearly!
    And more & more Clearly. \r\n\r\nThank you, James. And if there is anything else
    you want to add. I am all ears!"
  created: '2007-04-17 22:33:48'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Eben,\r\n\r\nI am in the midst of an optically adjusted family of fonts based
    on some of the work I did for the Mens Vogue modern, which was so fragile that
    it had to be adjusted for a more normal range of work. \r\n\r\nThat said, I have
    always preferred to try and create something that worked in a cross-size way.
    Most of the work I do I proof at text sizes for much of the development process,
    and I'm happy with the way it functions in bothe text and display sizes\r\n\r\nThe
    issue I have with optically-sized font families, is it is an awful lot of work
    for what looks to be a very small pay-off. Most type users are not as sophisticated
    as those here on typophile, and I have seen way too many examples of optically-sized
    type being used in the most outrageous ways. Does it make sense for a small type
    studio to spend that much development time on a range of products that most likely
    will not be used, or used incorrectly. I still don't have a good answer for that.\r\n\r\nOne
    of the last magazine jobs I did involved redesigning a title that was using Minion
    72 as their text type (9.5/11). WHen I asked the art director why this was the
    case, she said her and her boss just loved the way Minion look in the samples
    they saw (display I;m sure) and decided to use it as the text face. It didn't
    bother them that it looked fragile and sparkled in a way that made it uncomfortable
    to read. They also had the habit of negatively tracking it as a way of killing
    widows. (My redesign put a stop to all of that)\r\n\r\nAs to bending towards the
    screen, hopefully the screen will improve before my back breaks.\r\n\r\nJames\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-18 16:24:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> an awful lot of work for what looks to be a very small pay-off.\r\n\r\nBut
    that can be said about type design as a whole! :-/  In the end the things we do
    depends very much on what turns us on, and this applies to the degree to which
    we push our craft.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, I'm all for charging much more for
    refinements (including things like smallcaps) as opposed to base fonts exactly
    because, as you say, most people don't know the difference. Those that do have
    to pay more. :-)  Indeed ignorance is bliss I guess!\r\n\r\nBTW a good optical
    MM axis (I mean internally) makes things much easier.\r\n\r\n> hopefully the screen
    will improve before my back breaks.\r\n\r\nDon't count on it.  :-(\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-18 17:12:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: James, thanks for explaining your outlook. I appreciate it! Also, you made
    me laugh out loud there at the end.
  created: '2007-04-18 18:57:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"As to bending towards the screen, hopefully the screen will improve before
    my back breaks.\"\r\n\r\nI already have trifocals, as the screens get better,
    my vision gets worse! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-18 19:06:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I just got the Terminal Design specimen booklet - very nice!\r\nEnclave is
    delish.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-26 21:15:27'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Yes, that is my favorite of the Terminal bunch as well. Smart catalog, James.
  created: '2007-04-26 21:37:33'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "Decent typefaces.\r\n\r\nMuzz"
  created: '2007-04-27 06:35:30'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: The best Adobe type specimen books were designed by Jack Stauffacher - a good
    place to look for inspiration. See especially the Utopia spec book.
  created: '2007-04-29 12:56:25'
date: '2006-07-28 01:45:34'
title: What do you want in a type specimen?

---
