---
author:
  name: Martin LAllier
  picture: 110634
body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nI'm to give a talk on corporate typefaces this Fall (2006),
  particularly on fonts designed exclusively for a company's branding. I will also
  cover fonts designed to answer special technical needs (signage, screen, ...).\r\n\r\nMy
  list so far:\r\n_ Jean-Fran\xE7ois Porchez (Mencken, Der\xE9on, Parisine, Costa,
  ...)\r\n_ Erik Spiekermann (FF, Meta, FF Info, DBahn, Nokia, ...)\r\n_ Matthew Carter
  (Bell Centennial, Verdana, Georgia, ...)\r\n_ the Clearview project\r\n_ Nick Shinn
  (Richler)\r\n_ Underware (Ulrika)\r\n_ H&FJ (Mercury, Verlag, ...)\r\n\r\nAny other
  milestones I should consider? Do you have sources of informations (www, books, magazines,
  ...) that would ease my research?\r\n\r\nThanks for any suggestions and your help!!!!!!!"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Christian Schwartz (<a href="http://orangeitalic.com/bosch.shtml">Bosch</a>
    with Spiekermann, <a href="http://orangeitalic.com/guardian.shtml">Guardian</a>
    with Paul Barnes)
  created: '2006-07-29 18:50:40'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "This one convers branding *and* technical requirements...\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.ascendercorp.com/pr/pr2005_10_18.html\">Convection</A>
    - for Microsoft's Xbox 360 brand and device UI  \r\n\r\nMany (most) top brands
    use pre-existing fonts, even if heavily customized, here are few commissions...\r\n\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.underconsideration.com/speakup/archives/002021.html#002021\">Inspira</A>
    for GE\r\nChampion for Nike\r\nMacromedia branding font - Brody or Dalton Maag,
    someone in London? (edit - it was actrually by Font Bureau) \r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.myfonts.com/person/newlyn/miles/\">Miles
    Newlyn</A> - various  \r\nMatthew Carter - Walker \r\nMyriad for Adobe ;-)\r\n\r\nAlso
    Henrik Birkvig did a small <A HREF=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/links/news.aspx?NID=4746\">conference</A>
    in Copenhagen on this theme "
  created: '2006-07-29 18:51:55'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.typography.com/catalog/whitney/\" target=\"_blank\">whitney</a>
    by H&FJ\r\nand the customized neo tech/sans for intel (as discussed on here before)"
  created: '2006-07-29 20:08:01'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Frederic Goudy - Californian (for the University of California)\r\nMatthew
    Carter - <a href=\"http://www.yale.edu/printer/typeface/typeface.html\">The Yale
    Typeface</a>"
  created: '2006-07-29 21:17:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I've also designed an early-reading face for Nelson Thomson publishing company.\r\nNamed,
    er, Nelson! See my web site.\r\nAnd Brown Gothic and Walburn for the Globe and
    Mail -- although custom types designed for newspapers and magazines are a separate
    category, there are so many of them, Century, Times, etc. What foundries do is
    give the commissioning customer an exclusive licence for a limited time, and then
    release the face commercially. It's a great way to finance new product, although
    it does direct foundry output in a very staid direction, given the traditional
    look of newspapers, and the conservatism of the biggest market, American mass
    media.\r\n\r\nFor more Canadian content, Usherwood's Flange for a government program,
    and perhaps his face used for the launch of Canada's Wonderland, Sycamore? No
    doubt he did others, check with Matt Warburton, who is something of an Usherwood
    expert, or Steve Jackaman of Red Rooster, who publishes a lot of Usherwood faces.
    \r\n\r\nFrutiger was designed for an airport.\r\n\r\nThere are a lot of custom
    corporate faces in the UK.\r\nDalton Maag makes a specialty of it.\r\nMy currrent
    favorites over there include Jason Smith's design for Channel 4 (2004) and the
    national Westminster Bank typeface, by David Quay, I believe.\r\n\r\nSources:
    <em>Goudy's Type Designs</em> will reveal many."
  created: '2006-07-29 21:18:20'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: The typeface <em>Suntory</em> was done at Linotype for the Japanese beverage
    company Suntory.
  created: '2006-07-29 21:31:41'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Our NPS <a href=\"http://www.terminaldesign.com/retail.php?ID=1\">Rawlinson</a>
    and <a href=\"http://www.terminaldesign.com/custom_road_rawlinson.shtml\">Rawlinson
    Roadway</a> for the National Park service.\r\n\r\n\r\nJames\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-29 22:52:46'
- author:
    name: armin
    picture: 110197
  body: "Go through Joe Finocchiario's type portfolio: http://www.joefino.com/Pages_5/T01.html
    (dig the General Dynamics type)\r\n\r\nAlso, I wouldn't consider Clearview a corporate
    typeface, specially if you are focusing on \"fonts designed exclusively for a
    company\u2019s branding\"... The interstate, as far as I know, is not a company
    and something as specific as road signage does not branding make."
  created: '2006-07-30 00:01:10'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: It'd be cool if Finocchiaro listed the typefaces (Avenir, Trade Gothic, Bodoni,
    Futura, Handel Gothic) that served as a basis in many of those "new corporate
    fonts". It seems only his Futura stencil gets this treatment.
  created: '2006-07-30 00:18:36'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "if you're interested in that kind of thing, frutiger himself has agreed to
    the use of a reviewed frutiger as typeface for the road-signs in switzerland,
    its now named \xABastra frutiger\xBB. \r\n\r\nthere was a thread about this one
    on typophile, the easiest way to find it is to use google with your search-term,
    adding \"site:typophile.com\" in front of it."
  created: '2006-07-30 02:33:13'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: "Hans-J\xFCrg Hunziker                                         \r\nCorporate
    typeface for Siemens\r\n\r\nhttp://www.designpreis.ch/archiv/dp2003/en/html/nominationen/np/hunziker_frm.htm\r\n\r\nhttp://digital.library.colostate.edu/cdm4/item_viewer.php?CISOROOT=/poster&CISOPTR=1325&REC=3\r\n\r\nSee
    also:\r\nTypographische Monatsb\xE4tter 5/6 2002\r\n                                                  \r\n
    \                                        \r\n\r\n\r\n                                         \r\n
    \                                        "
  created: '2006-07-30 10:53:11'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: "Gerard Unger\r\nCorporate typeface for Allianz\r\n\r\nhttp://www.gerardunger.com/allmytypedesigns/allmytypedesigns21.html"
  created: '2006-07-30 10:59:20'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: BMW has its own typeface & Ikea uses a customised Century Schoolbook if I'm
    not mistaking.
  created: '2006-07-30 14:30:35'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=catalog.fontdetail&displayfontid=UR.121121.0.0\">\r\nKurt
    Weidemann's design for Mercedes </a> is my favourite. I think is is a perfect
    expression of the brand values and an excellent type design by itself. I like
    especially Corporate A."
  created: '2006-07-30 15:31:44'
- author:
    name: Bobby Henderson
  body: "Regarding the Macromedia branding font, that one is Vonnes from Font Bureau.
    It was available on the Font Bureau website at one time. But I just checked and
    it isn't there. Hmm.\r\n\r\nDanilo-Black has developed a number of custom type
    families for newspapers and magazines. They worked on \"Houston\" for the Houston
    Chronicle.\r\n\r\nArmin, I agree Clearview Highway is not really a \"corporate\"
    typeface (although AT&T has adopted the similar ClearviewOne for much of their
    stuff). Though the funding for it came from other places than a specific corporation
    it is still a non-retail oriented font. The work on ClearviewHwy spanned over
    a decade and involved a lot of testing and research in areas not considered for
    very many other typefaces. It's a very significant development for sign-specific
    type."
  created: '2006-07-30 16:21:09'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Wow, great thread. This is a question I've always wanted to know the answer
    to. If this is not straying to far off the topic, I would like to know how type
    designers get involved in these projects. Are you approached by the companies,
    or do you approach the companies? \r\n\r\nAs a graphic designer I know how many
    companies (even the big ones) are often very reluctant to purchase typefaces,
    let alone to buy a custom face. How is there so much difference between corporations
    and their understanding of the importance of typography?"
  created: '2006-07-30 17:29:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Some advocates are more persuasive than others.\r\nBut if a newspaper hires
    Roger Black for a redesign, they're probably expecting new fonts from the Bureau,
    followed by SND awards."
  created: '2006-07-30 17:52:41'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "<em>Regarding the Macromedia branding font, that one is Vonnes from Font
    Bureau. It was available on the Font Bureau website at one time. But I just checked
    and it isn\u2019t there. Hmm.</em>\r\n\r\nIt was never available for purchase,
    but a sample was available in their Custom section. That section is now AWOL,
    and I miss it."
  created: '2006-07-30 17:58:41'
- author:
    name: Richard Hards
    picture: 110084
  body: "German (I think) utilities company <a href=\"www.rwe.com\" target=\"new\">RWE</a>
    have RWECorporateH\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/RWE_5798.jpg]\r\nI don't
    know who designed it, this comes from a courtesy sign for their UK subsidiary
    Thames Water.\r\n\r\nMy client wasn't interested in making the the fonts available
    to me, so I used Frutiger, and everybody was happy ;)"
  created: '2006-07-30 19:47:43'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: That looks very much like a <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=catalog.fontdetail&displayfontid=FF.11002.8.11&attributes.sampleSize=48&sampleText=Safeguarding&sampleSize=48">FF
    Transit</a>-style Frutiger.
  created: '2006-07-30 20:02:09'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Well, Frutiguer was originally designed to signal the Charles de Gaulle airport.
    \r\n\r\nReforma newspaper in M\xE9xico used Sinergia, a text face by Font Bureau,
    I'm not sure if it was custom designed or exclusively licensed to them. Now that
    they have redesigned they are using a special display weight of Mercury which
    I have seen nowhere else.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-07-30 22:23:38'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Terry,\r\n\r\nPart of the advantage of offering a custom solution is one
    of licensing and distribution. If a corporation is going to properly license a
    font or fonts for worldwide distribution: A. they are going to pay a lot for that
    license B. It is a license with its own restrictions and C it is a font that is
    already being used by others.\r\n\r\nA custom solution gives the client a unique
    font, and the freedom to do with it what they want. They still have to pay a lot
    of money, but they were going to do that anyway.\r\n\r\nSometimes they come to
    you , and sometimes you go to them.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2006-07-30 22:31:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Last few posts reminded me of the story behind Corpid for the Dutch Ministry
    of Agriculture\r\n\r\nhttp://www.lucasfonts.com/lucasfnt/infos/info_corpid.html"
  created: '2006-07-30 23:49:31'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: <A HREF=http://www.fontsmith.com/>Fontsmith</A> is one of them foundries that
    specializes in custom corporate typefaces. I love their script face -- Arabic!
    -- done for Saudi Aramco.
  created: '2006-07-31 02:44:12'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Here\u2019s an ID thread.\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/27305\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    so nice to see that some companies commission typefaces after all."
  created: '2006-07-31 10:33:31'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "at DaltonMaag we have designed many logos and typeface for corporations.
    Airmiles\r\nBMW\r\nBT\r\nBT Directory\r\nCoop Schweiz\r\nDelta Airlines\r\nEircom\r\nGirlguiding\r\nKCRC\r\nLand
    Registry\r\nMINI\r\nThe National Lottery\r\nPPP Healthcare\r\nPuma\r\nSkoda\r\nSneak\r\nSparkasse\r\nTelewest
    Broadband\r\nTesco\r\nThyssenKrupp\r\nTottenham Hotspur\r\nTravelhouse\r\nTUI\r\nWinterthur\r\n\r\nhttp://www.daltonmaag.com/browse/custom/"
  created: '2006-07-31 12:04:03'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Edward Johnston for London Underground\r\nAs a side note, what are the earliest
    instances of corporate typefaces?\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-07-31 13:20:05'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: Tim, I believe Johnston may be the earliest corporate face. I know I read
    that somewhere - true or not.
  created: '2006-07-31 13:39:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Depends if you count the carved letterforms on the Trajan column as the corporate
    face of Rome :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-31 14:03:06'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "today though a Official font in Rome on bank machine (hole in a wall) is
    Comic Sans!!!!\r\nMetro machines and Venice chocolate stores!!!"
  created: '2006-07-31 14:26:31'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: Viva la Comic Sans! Better than Helvetica any day.
  created: '2006-07-31 14:34:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Vincent,\r\nTodays ATM is equivalent to the marble facades of Rome :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-31 14:48:52'
- author:
    name: robb
    picture: 109473
  body: "\"Regarding the Macromedia branding font, that one is Vonnes from Font Bureau...
    It was never available for purchase, but a sample was available in their Custom
    section. That section is now AWOL, and I miss it.\"\r\nStephen, the custom section
    will be back, along with lots of new work to fill it with. Promise. Vonnes (now
    Vonness) was available offline for a brief pocket of time before Macromedia wanted
    exclusivity again. It can still be seen in Concierge magazine due to that tiny
    blip of availability.\r\n\r\nMartin, contact me at Font Bureau and I can supply
    you images of Vonness for Macromedia and others depending on what you're hunting
    for. The bulk of our library was originally commissioned type for publications.
    Some were for corporations including Proforma for Purup by Petr von Blokland in
    the mid 80s:\r\nhttp://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Proforma\r\n\r\nAnother one of
    note is customized monospace Interstate for Citibank's massive credit report operation.
    You can see them at the very bottom of the list here:\r\nhttp://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Interstate/styles\r\n\r\n-Robb:
    rogle [at] fontbureau dot com"
  created: '2006-07-31 20:35:42'
- author:
    name: Richard Hards
    picture: 110084
  body: Thinking of custom corporate fonts, has anybody heard from Miles Newlyn recently?
    His site has been down for a while.
  created: '2006-07-31 20:42:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Depends if you count the carved letterforms on the Trajan column as the
    corporate face of Rome :-)\r\n\r\nGreat attention to detail. Proves that the letter
    carvers fiddled while Rome kerned. ;-)\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2006-07-31 21:24:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\",,,letter carvers fiddled while Rome kerned\"\r\n\r\nFreakin outstanding
    Sii! Your best ever :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-31 21:56:18'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: I'm still trying to wrap my head around it.
  created: '2006-07-31 22:07:16'
- author:
    name: Martin LAllier
    picture: 110634
  body: "Thanks so much for all these suggestions!\r\n\r\nAs for Clearview, I will
    talk about it and other such projects to show how typeface design can be a solution
    to a technical problem (in the same way as Bell Centennial).\r\n\r\nIn other words:
    how selecting a font may be more than a stylistic fancy."
  created: '2006-08-01 13:08:04'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://www.complink.net/greg/designsite/behrens.htm\r\n\r\nAccording to this
    Peter Behrens designed the first corporate typeface (and identity) for AEG, I
    can't find anything concrete to back it up however, many other sites seem to share
    the same source.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-08-01 14:41:58'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: "About Behrens, AEG and his typeface see\r\nRobin Kinross: Modern typography
    (1992), p 70 \r\nor\r\nRobin Kinross: Modern typography (new edition 2004), p
    85/86\r\n\r\nI think the Roman du Roi was also some kind of corporate typeface
    -\r\nat least it was designed for the exclusive use by the Imprimerie Royale..."
  created: '2006-08-01 21:34:36'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "> <em>fonts designed exclusively for a company\u2019s branding</em>\r\n\r\nMartin,
    are you asking about branding ('signature') typefaces, or the proprietary typefaces?\r\n\r\nMany
    popular printing types originated as proprietary designs. Among them are Century
    (1894), Cheltenham (1896), Times New Roman (1931), Bell Gothic (1937), Californian
    (1939).\r\n\r\nIn my opinion, Romain du Roi is a fine example of a proprietary
    typeface...\r\n\r\nThe typeface for the Prussian Railroads (1905) is probably
    the earliest proprietary design for railway car lettering and signage. It precedes
    Edward Johnston's typeface for London Underground by ten years.\r\n\r\nPackard
    (1913), Metropolitan Oldstyle (1914), Saks-Goudy (1934), CBS Sans and CBS Didot
    Bodoni (196?), Bloomingdale's Gothic (197?) are some of the long-forgotten American
    branding typefaces.\r\n\r\nThere are two useful books on the subject: <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1568302487/sr=1-1/qid=1154489617/ref=sr_1_1/103-4457932-5827061?ie=UTF8&s=books\"
    target=\"_blank\"><em>Branding with Type</em></a>, and <a href=\"http://www.printinghistory.org/htm/pubs/proprietary-typefaces.html\"
    target=\"_blank\"><em>American Proprietary Typefaces</em></a>."
  created: '2006-08-02 04:50:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: The Fell type, cut for Bishop Fell at the Oxford University Press, late 17th
    century.
  created: '2006-08-02 06:01:01'
- author:
    name: Martin LAllier
    picture: 110634
  body: Indeed, proprietary typefaces, seem to be the appropriate term.
  created: '2006-08-02 11:18:45'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "> <em>The Fell type, cut for Bishop Fell at the Oxford University Press,
    late 17th century.</em>\r\n\r\nI thought that most of those types were not cut
    to the order of Dr. Fell. He bought punches and matrices in Holland and Germany
    in 1670 and 1672, and brought them to Oxford. The original collection was complemented
    by the larger sizes that were indeed custom-manufactured at his request."
  created: '2006-08-02 16:14:13'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: Speaking of Fell Type, I love <A HREF=http://www.iginomarini.com/fell.html>Igino
    Marini's take on it</A> in all of their flawed beauty.
  created: '2006-08-03 02:08:25'
- author:
    name: Martin LAllier
    picture: 110634
  body: "Interesting article by Erik Spiekermann on Corporate typography in \u201CAn
    A-Z of type designers\u201D by Neil Macmillan. Covers the basic rationale behind
    the function of typography as a tool for branding - message and identity all at
    once.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/-Z-Type-Designers-Neil-Macmillan/dp/0300111517/sr=1-1/qid=1159836592/ref=sr_1_1/104-7313228-0799967?ie=UTF8&s=books\r\n\r\nOther
    interesting articles by type designers. The rest of the book is a list of designers
    with: fonts designed, bio. This aspect is much better covered by the Friedl, Ott
    & Stein book. http://www.amazon.com/Typography-Friedrich-Friedl/dp/1579120237/sr=1-1/qid=1159836713/ref=sr_1_1/104-7313228-0799967?ie=UTF8&s=books"
  created: '2006-10-03 01:52:11'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>Interesting article by Erik Spiekermann</em>\r\n\r\nI attach a jpeg with
    showings of most faces I designed over the years. The fonts for corporations were
    usually designed by teams, and some of my collaborators were Lucas de Groot, Ole
    Sch\xE4fer, Albert Pinggera, Henning Krause, Erik van Blokland, Just van Rossum,
    Conor Mangat and Christian Schwartz. I know I've left some faces off the list,
    as I can never remember all of them and as we shouldn\u2019t get too much credit
    for adaptions like Univers for Audi Sans, Frutiger Condensed for FF Transit or
    Futura for VW Headline. And I just noticed that I left out The Economist, so I\u2019ll
    have a think, try and find the original file and post an updated <strong>spiekertypes</strong>
    image soon. \r\n\r\nIf anybody is interested, I can supply that article as a text
    file. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/spiekertypes06_5427.jpg]"
  created: '2006-10-03 11:10:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"If anybody is interested, I can supply that article as a text file.\"\r\n\r\nI
    would be interested Erik.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-03 12:37:08'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: Count me in.
  created: '2006-10-03 16:51:12'
- author:
    name: Martin LAllier
    picture: 110634
  body: "I would very much that article, thx!\r\n\r\nAnd anything covering the designs
    of the Nokia and Glasgow faces - I already have and much enjoyed the DB fonts
    presentation PDF."
  created: '2006-10-03 16:52:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The article as text would be super.\r\n\r\nAnd what about that wonderful
    font... compendium ;-) as a PDF?\r\nPretty please with diacritics on it?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-03 17:03:17'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">And anything covering the designs of the Nokia and Glasgow faces\r\n\r\nNokia
    Sans\r\nhttp://www.spiekermann.com/iblog/C61720386/E20051016181337/index.html"
  created: '2006-10-03 17:16:15'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Talking of Nokia...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.wibree.com/press/ \r\n\r\n...wonder
    what font the new wibree (great name!) logo is based on? Not one of Erik's me
    thinks. I suppose Nokie thought competing technologies were getting a little bit
    blue in the tooth.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-03 21:28:04'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "A year after the last post, I'd like to add the designs of Christophe Badani,
    who designed numerous corporate types, including Lacoste Sans (www.letypophage.com).
    And let's not forget Ikea Sans (aka Futura) and Ikea Serif (aka Century Schoolbook).
    And let's not forget Cplus, the corporate type of Canal + cable channel (aka Futura).\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-22 23:58:16'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "David, I think you meant http://www.typophage.com/en/fontes-exclusives/view\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/4872\">Lacoste Sans (aka TheSans)?</a>"
  created: '2007-11-23 17:40:33'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Yes, this is what i meant. but i was tired. sorry :-)\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2007-11-24 00:50:01'
- author:
    name: acmeacme
  body: "6 years later, but only few people know Z\xFCrich-based NORM's corporate
    typefaces.\r\nAlong with Aur\xE8le Sack, they have designed the beautiful Omega's
    and Swatch's \r\ncorporate typefaces. Two reinterpretation of pre-existing futura
    inspired fonts, \r\nyet the outputs are different.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/omega_5164.png]"
  created: '2012-08-07 11:48:13'
date: '2006-07-29 18:44:51'
node_type: forum
title: Corporate initiated typeface designs

---
