---
author:
  name: j_polo9
body: Hey I'm looking for fonts representing Old Italy. It is for an italian motiff
  day spa. Any sugguestions?
comments:
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Hmmm\u2026 Italian Old Style? ;-)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/italian-old-style/"
  created: '2006-08-01 11:32:08'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Hey I\u2019m looking for fonts representing Old Italy\"\r\n\r\n\"Hmmm\u2026
    Italian Old Style? ;-)\"\r\n\r\n;)\r\n\r\nItaly has a lot of age(s) :), but staying
    with the theme of \"off the top of my head\", for a day spa...I'd use an antiqued
    version of Lithos regular, or light."
  created: '2006-08-01 12:18:46'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "Old Italian style is a bit too plain and literal lol. Lithos is probably
    a bit too greek/Oscan/Etruscan or whatever it is lol. \r\n\r\nThe imagery of the
    spa will be old italy but the type doesn't so much have to be \"Old Italian Type\"
    as much as it should appear to have the qualities representing the period.\r\n\r\nThe
    main visual imagery is Old Italian, and Expensive/Sheik. here's my little brief
    about it:\r\n\r\nDolce Vita is an Italian Day Spa with expensive services marketed
    towards the wealthy. Dolce Vita should represent Old Italy and/or Sheik/Expensive.
    The logo must have an unforgettable quality, can be overly extravagant, and should
    be directed at men as well as women. The location will be decorated with Greek
    columns, Plaster Wall textures, Italian wall murals, dark textured concrete floors,
    fish tanks, and a circular relaxation room. Some additional visual imagery: Art
    Deco, Fancy/Floral, crown molding, little details, rich looking, drapery, olive
    branch, fruit theme/ Adam & Eve (dolce vita means \"sweet life\")."
  created: '2006-08-01 12:31:11'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: I guess I could use something from like Antiquity Through 16th century so
    that is probably too broad a category. Any sugguestions on how to narrow down
    what i should be asking for based on my short brief?
  created: '2006-08-01 12:52:51'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: I would suggest you look for inspiration in the Italian Food section of your
    local supermarket - thats what the designer of this Chuck Mangione record cover
    did[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mangione_4866.gif]
  created: '2006-08-01 13:05:18'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: ahh good idea. I think i might have to check out the wines at BevMo While
    I'm at it...
  created: '2006-08-01 13:41:04'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://www.fontsmith.com/fonts.php?font_num=250\r\n\r\nA nice alternative
    to Trajan. Do you mean chic/expensive?\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-08-01 13:44:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bodoni still says it for me.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-01 13:48:36'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: Some Version of Bodoni would be a good start - perhaps combined with something
    more "classic roman".
  created: '2006-08-01 14:04:37'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "Two thoughts:\r\nOld Rome with a new twist: <a href=\"http://www.klim.co.nz/content/type/karv_02.html\">Karv</a>\r\nLuxury
    + Expensive: <a href=\"http://www.orangeitalic.com/luxury.shtml\">Luxury</a>\r\n\r\nJust
    one problem. Neither of these are released yet, but perhaps if you contact Kris
    Sowersby/House Industries (respectively) they can work with you on getting advance
    copies?"
  created: '2006-08-01 14:43:07'
- author:
    name: zeimusu
    picture: 111743
  body: "Is suggesting an italic too obvious? If not:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/ihof/p22-operina/\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/agfa/fairbank-mt/\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-01 16:52:32'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "<a href=\"http://louisefili.com/flash.html\">Louise Fili</a> is, in my opinion,
    a very thoughtful collector of italian (amongst other locale) typography. She
    designed a small book, <em>A Designer's Guide to Italy</em> which was beautifully
    produced by <a href=\"http://www.darbylitho.com/\">Darby LItho</a> focussing on
    some of her collections. It is a little pricey, but for someone who collects I
    thougth it was worth it. Seeing pictures of this little book isn't the same as
    holding as you miss out on all of the tactile qualities from the production. There
    was a small article written about it in <a href=\"http://www.stepinsidedesign.com/STEPMagazine/Article/28461\">STEPInside</a>
    in 2005 which is now online.\r\n\r\nEqually you can't miss out on her book <em>Italian
    Art Deco: Graphic Design between the wars</em> and <em>Deco Type: Stylish Alphabets
    from the '20s and '30s</em>, among many others, which features all of her collections.
    <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=br_ss_hs/002-3027848-3844840?platform=gurupa&url=index%3Dblended&keywords=%22louise+fili%22&Go.x=0&Go.y=0&Go=Go\">Available
    at Amazon.</a>\r\n\r\nAlso, you can't miss <a href=\"http://www.travelbrochuregraphics.com/Top_Level_Pages/Italy/Italy_Main.htm\">Travel
    Brochure Graphics</a> with there section on Italy."
  created: '2006-08-01 16:53:16'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: I just dropped in to mention Louise Fili but Tiff beat me to the punch!
  created: '2006-08-01 17:29:38'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: I have both of the Deco Books mentioned by Tiffany and they are well done,
    useful and not that pricey. A couple of good sources for "old Italian" Type.
  created: '2006-08-01 17:43:35'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Handle Old Style?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/agfa/handle-old-style/"
  created: '2006-08-01 21:58:31'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "@tim: ahh yes chic/expensive, thanks!\r\n\r\nAhh Bodini is a classic and
    it seems that most places use either the bodini look, the avante garde look, or
    the weathered papyrus look lol.\r\n\r\nThanks for all the replys! I'm looking
    into the other fonts sugguested as i type, well after i type this. I emailed rich
    yesterday about luxury and he said that it isn't available for setting but you
    can purchase a pre-release version in OT format now. Thanks!"
  created: '2006-08-01 23:00:33'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: My thoughts on the spa aren't about the type but imagery. Try finding a symbol
    of a god of luxury. Stylize it and use it as your CI and let the type be the supporting
    element. Just a thought
  created: '2006-08-02 11:03:27'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Bodoni just doesn't say luxury to me, but if the name has a lowercase g maybe
    <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/woodentypefonts/roman-x/\">Roman X</a>
    is a possibility.\r\nHow about\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/dstype/kartago/\r\n\r\nor\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/optima/\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-08-02 14:39:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Funny how fonts convey different feelings to different people.  Bodoni really
    says luxury to me.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-02 15:27:36'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "At the risk of going way off topic it would be interesting to work out what
    factors make people associate emotions with typestyles, trouble is I can't really
    pin down what it is that makes me feel that Bodoni doesn't portray luxury. \r\nTim"
  created: '2006-08-02 15:57:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't know either Tim.  Maybe all of the high end fashion magazines printed
    in Bodoni or Didot give me that pricey feel?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-02 16:20:52'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "wow Louise Fili is awesome and that book looks very nice!\r\n\r\n@Dan: I
    will try to find some good imagery, I don't think a god would be a good choice
    for this particular one, they want old italian. But maybe some play on davinci's
    creation of adam might work. (though its probably been done to death).\r\n\r\nKartago
    is cool. I think bodini looks luxurious, but it might just be because so many
    luxury brands use similar styles."
  created: '2006-08-02 16:27:06'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Creation of Adam is a Michaelangelo on the Sistine Chapel ceiling, I suspect
    you mean Vitruvian Man. Yes, it has been done to death, it is probably the Trajan
    of the illustration world.\r\n\r\nI do like Didones it's just that they don't
    convey luxury for me or at least not in this circumstance, I think I am thinking
    more of Italian>spa>Roman bath>Trajan and branching out from that:)\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-08-02 18:49:04'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: There's always the classic Leonardo proportions of man thingie but maybe he's
    been done to death after the Da Vinci code. Or even before.
  created: '2006-08-02 21:55:52'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "lol oops of course it was michealangelo. I happened to be reading a davinci
    art book at the time and my cuba libre probably helped in the typo :P \r\n\r\nI've
    got some other hopefully less used ideas for the logo. But if anyone has any inspired
    ideas I would love to hear them, and love to recipricate help. Thanks!\r\n-Jesse"
  created: '2006-08-03 01:46:52'
- author:
    name: amyp
    picture: 109556
  body: "that Louise Fili book is gorgeous, thanks for the tip.\r\n\r\nHmm...I guess
    my interpretation of \"Old Italy\" was something a bit different. Here's a selection
    of covers of old italian 45s from my grandmother's collection-not exactly what
    this thread's about, but i just really love these and thought i would share...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/italian45s_6704.jpg]"
  created: '2006-08-03 04:18:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Wow! Nice tune boxes! Were these after WWII when they didn't have much metal
    left?
  created: '2006-08-03 12:50:30'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: "Maybe FTF Garda!?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GardaNet08_6690.jpg]\r\n\r\nhttp://vllg.com/Feliciano/Garda/mudTyper+Weights"
  created: '2006-08-03 15:35:04'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "\"Dolce Vita is an Italian Day Spa with expensive services marketed towards
    the wealthy\" \r\nItalian??? How? Owned by American-Italians? \r\n\r\n\"The location
    will be decorated with Greek columns, Plaster Wall textures, Italian wall murals,
    dark textured concrete floors, fish tanks, and a circular relaxation room. Some
    additional visual imagery: Art Deco, Fancy/Floral, crown molding, little details,
    rich looking, drapery, olive branch, fruit theme/ Adam & Eve\"\r\n\r\nThe short
    version: kitsch. Is the spa in Las Vegas?\r\n\r\nFancy floral , little details,
    rich looking (whatever that means) is more art nouveau (800s/900s) than art deco
    (1920s). Art Deco and Art Nouveau are two different things and if you really want
    to be accurate you should make some research because Art Deco is more associated
    with geometric elements (see Charles Rennie Mackintosh etc.) and very stylised
    florals.\r\n\r\nLa Dolce Vita literally means \"the sweet life\" (or the good
    life) but it's also strictly associated with Fellini's film which is set in Rome
    in the sixties. \r\n\r\nIt is actually a nice name for a spa, but all these historical
    references and the visual imagery need to be sorted out urgently. And then Bodoni
    (1780) and Leonardo da Vinci and bottles of Italian wine???? That's Disneyland!
    Why bother finding the historically accurate typography if everything is so messed
    up? You can use any font! \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-03 18:02:43'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "Ahh great post. Yes American-Italians. But in reality German German's could
    own it and still make it an italian style spa, no?\r\n\r\n\"The short version:
    kitsch. Is the spa in Las Vegas?\"\r\nWell i don't think the spa will be \"kitsch\"
    but then I'm not building the spa just the logo. No not las vegas lol, just an
    expensive part of town here. \r\n\r\n\"...is more art nouveau (800s/900s) than
    art deco (1920s).\"\r\nBy additional imagery I did not mean that it had to be
    all of those things lol, those are just the different things i'm trying out. Also
    I did purchase the Italian Art Deco book so i should get some good ideas from
    that. I got it on ecampus for $13! when it's normally $120.\r\n\r\nYour last point
    throws me off a bit, not sure what you mean about disneyland. You see I would
    never use Bodini + bottles of wine + da Vinci imagery togethar. But while Bodini
    might show luxury, wine might represent Old Italy and Da Vinci could represent
    High Italian Art; they all have their own benefits. I've always been told in brainstorming
    that there is no such thing as a bad idea becaues even bad ideas fused with good
    ideas can make great ideas.\r\n\r\n\r\nCan I ask what to you represents Old Italy
    in visual imagery and type?"
  created: '2006-08-04 00:32:17'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Oh yes, there are bad ideas. Lots of them. In fact the world is full of them!
    \r\n\r\nOld Italy.. It's centuries of history, art and culture we are talking
    about here. Not including the Roman empire (which was not in Old Italy really!).\r\n\r\nAnd
    what is an Italian style spa? You mean something inspired on Roman baths? With
    Greek columns and fish tanks in it??? Sorry: that is not kitsch because kitsch
    can be fun. It's plain silly. Obviously this is not your fault but you need to
    graphically represent this nightmare and boy, I don't envy you. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-04 02:57:26'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: '** sorry wrong thread **'
  created: '2006-08-04 08:53:06'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "Well of course there are bad ideas... but in brainstorming it is like the
    golden rule to not harp on bad ideas. \r\n\r\nOld italy is centuries of history,
    but i only need to represent the feel of what people think is old italy. Or draw
    certain qualities from what it could be to give the Day Spa a unique feel.\r\n\r\nsorry
    i thought you were using kitsch in a bad way. I don't think the clients would
    want this spa to feel kitsch. I kind of like this project, mostly because of the
    things i've found out from this thread lol. Too bad it will take too long for
    the Louise Fili book to get here for it to be of any help on this project."
  created: '2006-08-04 08:54:36'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: You can get the Heller & Fili Deco books at Borders or Barnes & Noble asap.
  created: '2006-08-04 13:16:40'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">You mean something inspired on Roman baths? With Greek columns and fish
    tanks in it???\r\n\r\nNot so far fetched the Romans were not averse to borrowing
    architectural styles and whole features, and were adept at fish farming, (also
    murals and concrete), but I can imagine a intrepretation going wildly astray,
    let's hope not in this case, even the best logo can't save us from interior designers
    and architects:)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.thermaebathspa.com/\r\n\r\nPretty unpleasant
    logo for this place more Greek than Roman.\r\nThat Garda is lovely.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-08-04 14:18:22'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "\"Old italy is centuries of history, but i only need to represent the feel
    of what people think is old italy\"\r\n\r\nYes, you're right. Probably it makes
    more sense to ask local people what they perceive as old Italy than to ask an
    Italian, after all your audience is American. I personally take historical issues
    very seriously and spend a lot of time in research. I am not a heavy weight designer,
    not even a medium weight, but it does bother me a lot when people can't distinguish
    ancient Rome from Greece from 17th century from 1920s...\r\n\r\nbut back to your
    brainstorming (if you are still interested in my opinion!) I find art deco such
    a good idea (even if it probably doesn't reflect the interior design which sounds
    kind of heavy and, I insist, not very chic). \r\n\r\nI love the elegance and sophistication
    of art deco, It's not about luxury you see, it's about elegance and grace and
    lightness. That's chic (to me). \r\n\r\nLuxury could be anything: it could be
    heavy velvet stuff, rococo, golden frames and neo classic sculptures...none of
    these are necesserally chic. I would go with art deco (even if it wasn't really
    embraced very much by the Italian as far as I know, more France and Austria I
    think...). \r\n\r\nAlso may I ask you which sort of murals are we talking about
    here? And which sort of greek columns (are you sure they are Greek?), I'm just
    curious now, it would help to have a more accurate description of the place to
    understand what goes on in your boss (sick) mind (joke...). \r\n\r\nTim: you almost
    got me with the farm fishing argument here ; )"
  created: '2006-08-04 18:46:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There were some Doric and Ionic columns in Rome but it makes more sense to
    either use arches or some of the Rococo palacio feeling from northern italy rather
    than the Neapolitan restaurant feeling I am getting from your description.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-04 19:27:55'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Chris just reminded me that maybe you should stay clear from any food or
    beverage reference Jesse! Water is fine though, Spa meaning Salutem Per Aquam
    (Health Through Water in Latin). \r\n\r\nI would stick to the architectural elelements
    and since Chris and Tim decided to pick on me with those damned columns (creeps!)
    than why don't you check the order of the columns that will be placed in the spa
    and see if you can use the image of the columns' capital in your logo? Just an
    idea... I think the nicest one is the Corinthian (the one with the acanthus leaves,
    sorry I couldn't find a picture) which is perhaps the more ornamental therefore
    more appropriate for this specific spa's interior design.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/image002_6526.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/image003_6359.gif]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-05 22:05:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL Lore! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-05 23:23:04'
- author:
    name: Greg Stanton
  body: "Zapf created Michelangelo as a titling face for Paletino. You don't see it
    much anymore, but it's got a refined, calligraphic feel to it.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/berthold/michelangelo-bq/\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-06 00:06:00'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/corinthian_4558.jpg]\r\nLore's right
    (when she's not picking on me:), a Corinthian column is the most attractive and
    more appropriate for Romans.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-08-06 10:08:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Would that be \"First Corinthians\"?\r\n\r\n:-)\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-06 12:58:43'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: No, dez it's Romans.
  created: '2006-08-06 15:54:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-06 17:43:48'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: 'ahh thanks for all the help. Im trying to work on this tonight. '
  created: '2006-08-08 01:29:07'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "When I design a logo for a public place ( or a place that is going to be
    visited by people) I like to give a flavour of what people are going to find inside
    (decoration, artefacts etc.). \r\nI am quite convinced that water is a good association...a
    detail of the Fontana di Trevi in Rome or any other water feature maybe? \r\n\r\nI
    saw a few beautiful Roman Amphoras (pottery) on the net and I thought it could
    be a nice idea. Amphoras or any terracotta pot with a nice shape...and I won't
    hold a grudge if you pick a Greek amphora and it'll keep Chris and Tim quite for
    a while!\r\nI guess water amphoras is the kind of things you could find in Roman
    baths (I wasn't born at the time but I'm pretty sure I've seen that in Asterix!)\r\n\r\nA
    beautiful amphora with water coming out of it? Ok, maybe not a genius idea but
    with clients you never know!\r\nI think shape is important...I've read somewhere
    (not in Asterix) that the brain aknowledges and remembers shapes first...as far
    as fonts are concerned I really like the Garda one too.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Igw_pot_3839.jpg]\r\n\r\nI'll
    be back..."
  created: '2006-08-08 20:47:28'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "Ahh lore that's a very good idea! Unfortunately I had to meet with the clients
    last night and they liked one of the logos (not the one i was hoping they'd like
    but what can you do?)\r\n\r\nI might try a logo with your idea just for fun though!"
  created: '2006-08-09 16:57:54'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">(not the one i was hoping they\u2019d like but what can you do?)\r\n<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sod%27s_law\">Sod's
    Law</a> says that this is always the way unfortunately\r\n\r\nShow us what you
    came up with after all the diversions this thread has taken. \r\nFurther off-topic
    Asterix, at the time it was drawn, was drawn with an effort to be true to archaelogical
    knowledge of costume and architecture, for the Romans at least, I don't think
    anyone has dug up Obelix.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-08-09 17:48:11'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "ahh see now im timid about posting the logo. For starters the client was
    err mistaken in asking for art deco when apparantely she confused it with art
    nuevo so all my art deco research was for naught. Secondly I didn't like any of
    the logos I made but a designer friend of mine had some ideas so he did one for
    me that the client chose. Only it still needs some work so I will have to get
    back to you with the logo :P\r\n\r\nThe one good thing is that I got to read up
    a lot on art Deco which is a cool period. And Louise Fili's work is awesome. Just
    to note, the deco books are out of print. Instead they combined all the european
    ones into one book, so i got that which is great. I also got just the italian
    one though from ecampus books. And I still need to order the one from their site
    just because it looks awesome.\r\n\r\nOn a side note are their any good art nuevo
    books that are comparable?"
  created: '2006-08-10 01:33:48'
date: '2006-08-01 09:05:49'
node_type: forum
title: Fonts representing Old Italy?

---
