---
author:
  name: billtroop
  picture: 109800
body: 'The merger between Monotype and Linotype announced this morning makes me wonder
  how typographical history might have played out had the union occurred at several
  other key points over the last hundred years. It seems a very positive step to take
  at this point, very synergistic. I like the idea of a strong company that only does
  type. '
comments:
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: CG Triumvirate => Arial => Helvetica
  created: '2006-08-02 13:52:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.monotypeimaging.com/aboutus/pr_display.aspx?year=2006&pr=292\">
    Link to the announcement.</a>\r\n\r\nIs this a sign of weakness or strength in
    the font industry? What does it mean?"
  created: '2006-08-02 13:57:03'
- author:
    name: noftus
    picture: 111246
  body: '*rolls thumbs, and continues to patiently wait for Linotype''s FontExplorer
    X for Windows...'
  created: '2006-08-02 14:03:51'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Weak or strength? - I dont know. But for the designers these merger is not
    a step forward.\r\n\r\nnoftus: Keep waiting, maybe in the next life... \r\n\r\n--<a
    href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2006-08-02 14:26:25'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: Is digital type following the ATF model in metal type? I hope not -  but when
    biggies merge this is not a sign that everything is OK.
  created: '2006-08-02 15:13:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Their biggest challenge will be unifying their respective hot metal technologies
    - my guess is that Linotype casters will be retrofitted to cast one letter at
    a time - a "mono line" if you will.
  created: '2006-08-02 16:12:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: LOL Si!
  created: '2006-08-02 16:20:08'
- author:
    name: patricking
    picture: 111718
  body: "<em>Weak or strength? - I dont know. But for the designers these merger is
    not a step forward.</em>\r\n\r\nwhy not? (i'm not saying i agree or disagree.
    i just want to know why you say it's bad for designers.)"
  created: '2006-08-02 17:26:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Si! You are my HERO!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-02 17:42:01'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Now watch as those royalty agreements with independent designers get smaller
    and smaller.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2006-08-02 18:01:28'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "James, not sure if that will happen but there's a quote from Bob Givens in
    this <A HREF=\"http://www.macworld.co.uk/news/index.cfm?NewsID=15426&Page=1&pagePos=4\">MacWorld
    UK article</A>... \r\n\r\n\"Font people are tiny people.\" \r\n\r\nConjures up
    an interesting image. But there is a connection between little people and the
    world of type. Robert Norton's mum, Mary Norton wrote the book \"The Borrowers\"
    in which a family of miniature humans borrowed buttons etc., Aren't all type designers
    \"borrowers\" too, standing on the shoulders of giants? \r\n"
  created: '2006-08-02 18:22:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u201CFont people are tiny people.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nThat's not the only
    paradigm.\r\nThe tail is long -- 285 foundries at Myfonts.\r\nMergers & acquisitions
    is not the only way to acquire scale and synergy, so too is being distributed
    by Myfonts, Veer, Fontshop etc., -- these distributors are coming up with plenty
    of new retail marketing ideas.\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-02 19:05:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think the merger marks the paradigm shift.  For years, when the font-output
    machinery drove the wagon, large companies were the only ones who could put it
    all together.  Today everything is separated. Type design and distribution (and
    output is in the users hands). The overhead in having a large corporation having
    everything in-house is a cost issue that is hard to pass on unless there is constant
    new development to cover it. Today's smaller and more independent groups work
    in consort but handle only their own overhead.  Yes, type people \"are small people\"
    but they need very small parking places and use less fuel.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-02 20:21:52'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "Let us all pray for Akira.\r\n\r\nToo bad it's been so long since ITC / MT
    published much of interest. No offense, but when little outfits like P22 can put
    out a dozen beautiful and well produced faces in six months and Monotype has,
    in 2006 so far, not a lot of note besides a Michael Harvey revival (which is quite
    nice) and an overdue Galliard pro (and, what - Julietrose? Morris Freestyle? :/)
    - well, I'm thinking this continued amalgamation is anything but a good thing.\r\n\r\nIt
    seems that the ITC and Monotype websites get worse and are less frequently updated
    the larger the company gets.\r\n\r\nWhat does Mr. Haley have to say about it?\r\n\r\nAnd
    a related question: what exactly is the relation of Bayer to Compugraphic, Monotype
    & Linotype? I see they own most of the CG faces, and my Linotype-Hell scanner
    and imagesetter came in Bayer-branded boxes, and I thought they owned at least
    part of LH, but ... I'm not sure."
  created: '2006-08-02 20:32:10'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I wonder if Monotype refunded the ITC sellout that M. Batty sold to Linotype
    with no regard to the agreement ITC had with its designers.
  created: '2006-08-02 20:44:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">what exactly is the relation of Bayer to Compugraphic, Monotype & Linotype?
    \r\n\r\nThere's a timeline here... \r\nhttp://www.monotypeimaging.com/MK/Linotype/History.aspx
    \r\n\r\n>Too bad it\u2019s been so long since ITC / MT published much of interest.
    \r\n\r\nTo their credit over the past few years they've been OpenType Pro'ing
    a lot of gems from the Monotype and ITC library. Also seem to have been signing
    up a lot of smaller foundries on fonts.com "
  created: '2006-08-02 21:43:03'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "I am a little concerned about the way Bob Givens's quote has been taken out
    of context. In full, he said,\r\n\r\n\u201CWe need to be a strong company to deliver
    products to the likes of Adobe and Microsoft. Font people are tiny people. We
    are tiny businesses in comparison to these big companies. We will be much stronger
    together than we are alone\u201D.\r\n\r\nSi of course meant the extract humorously,
    but it's getting a life of its own, and the fact is that there is nothing exceptionable
    in what Bob Givens actually said. \r\n\r\nI also don't see why this should be
    bad for designers. During the press call, Steinert and Givens went out of their
    way to mention their commitment to the actual font designer, and they really didn't
    have to. The issue, in the end, is never what your royalty percentage is. The
    issue is how many copies the foundry can sell. Combined marketing + combined and
    better targeted advertising probably = more sales. \r\n\r\nMore compellingly,
    I think this stronger entity can better deal with font format problems, inconsistencies
    and new technologies, such as OT, Multiple Master (which I have persuasively heard
    - not for attribution - is due for a revival 'sometime'), etc. etc. In the past
    few years, the important decisions have been made exclusively by Adobe and Microsoft,
    and the results have not altogether been happy. I believe the combined Linotype
    Monotype entity will be able to change that paradigm and I couldn't be happier.
    Of course any merger can fail to work out well, or can fail to work out well in
    some particular area if not in others. But why expect the worst when there are
    so many potentially positive elements here? \r\n\r\nI must say, too, that I know
    very well Bruno Steinert's passionate commitment to the font industry in general
    and to Linotype and its legacy in particular, and if there is anything I can be
    certain of, it is that he has made the best choice for Linotype. This experienced
    strategist knows very well that you sometimes have to make a daring sacrifice
    in order to gain a great and lasting success."
  created: '2006-08-02 21:44:30'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "Thanks Sii. So Agfa is a division of Bayer, and Bayer seemed to already own
    some of Hell when it was combined with Linotype; so this new purchase really seems
    like Agfa simply condensing its varied holdings - is that right?\r\n\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt
    : http://www.hewnandhammered.com : rnrmf!"
  created: '2006-08-02 21:55:35'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>i just want to know why you say it\u2019s bad for designers</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    I have found Agfa-Monotype-whatever to be--how shall I say it?--a little less
    than honest in their dealings with me..."
  created: '2006-08-02 21:58:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Agfa simply condensing its varied holdings - is that right?\r\n\r\nNo Agfa
    sold \"Agfa Monotype\" to the TA investment group and the name changed to \"Monotype
    Imaging\". Monotype Imaging is wholly owned by TA.  \r\n\r\nAlso I find myself
    in agreement with most of Bill's comments. Out of context Bob's quote is humorous,
    but in context it's definitely on the mark.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-02 22:04:09'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "Ah - I understand. I see that now in the timeline. Thanks.\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt
    : http://www.hewnandhammered.com : rnrmf!"
  created: '2006-08-02 22:07:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I should also mention that Fonts.com and Faces (which are part of Monotype
    Imaging and therfeore of the new merged company) also distribute a lot of small
    foundries, and do alright for them. \r\n\r\nI don't think that's likely to change,
    as one of the advantages of being a large font distributor is that you have a
    lot of product on the shelf, with new product frequently, and search engines driving
    people to your site all the time.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-03 00:25:54'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "<em>Combined marketing + combined and better targeted advertising probably
    = more sales.</em>\r\n\r\nBill, have you seen the marketing attempts from these
    two companies of late?  1 lame + 1 lame \u2260 2 good. They could learn a few
    lessons from MyFonts and Veer.\r\n\r\nPoking aside, I'm hopeful that the retail
    arms of both companies will grow stronger from this. Monotype could gain from
    Linotype's content-rich and semi-navigable site. (Will we see a useful fonts.com?
    A larger FontExplorer X store?) And Linotype could get the resources it needs
    to churn out more than one retail family a year. (Akira could use some backup.
    Send in your resume, Bill!)"
  created: '2006-08-03 09:21:43'
- author:
    name: Stefan H
    picture: 109742
  body: "I can't say I'm surprised by this merge. The bigger gets bigger and the \"Indies\"
    keep on fighting! I can't really tell if it's for better or for worse. I've never
    been a fan of either of them. I respect them for sure, but I've always preferred
    the close contact you get with the smaller foundries. They become \"part of the
    family\"... that would hardly happen as part of the \"Giants\".\r\n\r\nFrom a
    marketing point I think you might even have an advantage being small. As mentioned
    already the smaller foundries keep working harder and connect easier with the
    trendier designer. From my own experience things travel VERY fast over the Internet
    if you're able to get the right connections. The awareness of MAC Rhino Fonts
    have increased a lot with a very limited marketing budget.\r\n\r\nNow let's hope
    this merge will have a good outcome for the whole type industry. I think we need
    both big and small players on this arena."
  created: '2006-08-03 12:00:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I think we need both big and small players on this arena.\"\r\nI don't
    think you have to worry about that, do you?\r\n\r\n\"I wonder if Monotype refunded
    the ITC sellout...\"\r\nI don't think you have to worry about that, do you?\r\n\r\n\"Today
    everything is separated.\"\r\nI don't think you have to worry about that, do you?\r\n\r\nI
    think, as with any merger, you have to watch for a while, I mean don't all mergers
    have \"synergy\". It's a lot like all the advanced buzz about a game, sports-wise,
    that's meaningless bla--bla-- until \"the game\" is actually played.\r\n\r\n\"\u201CFont
    people are tiny people.\u201D\r\n... .. ..... .. . ............ . ..? ....  ...
    ............. . ... .. .. ........ \r\n.  . ...   ..... . ......! ....... .. .
    . .......... ..... ......... . ....... .....,\r\n....  ..........  .. ..... .
    ...... ........... \u2014 ....... .. ......... ....!?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-03 12:41:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "In general terms, the purchase of Linotype seems to be simply part of Monotype's
    acquisition policy of several years standing, beginning with ITC. But I agree
    with Nick that synergy in the font business doesn't necessarily reside in conglomeration
    of big foundries into one very big foundry, and that most of the creative development,
    especially in the retail font market, has been taking place outside of big foundries.
    Linotype realised this years ago, and got rid of most of their internal design
    staff, eventually settling for one creative director (Akira) working with individual
    designers outside the company, and this is a model that has worked very well for
    them.\r\n\r\nBob Givens' is quoted as saying: <em>\u201CWe need to be a strong
    company to deliver products to the likes of Adobe and Microsoft. Font people are
    tiny people. We are tiny businesses in comparison to these big companies. We will
    be much stronger together than we are alone\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nAs a very small
    foundry that delivers to both Adobe and Microsoft, I have to say that I disagree.
    What has been ably demonstrated in the past few years is that small foundries
    and independent designers can compete with the large companies for OEM contracts
    as well as they can compete in the retail font market, especially when what is
    desired by the client are new designs. The primary material advantage of the older
    and larger foundries is in what Peter Lofting at Apple calls 'the shoebox', i.e.
    the store of historical types which they can endlessly repurpose for new formats.
    Monotype's shoebox just got a whole lot bigger.\r\n\r\nThe secondary material
    advantage was technical savvy, which Monotype in particular has tried hard to
    maintain. But open access to decent manufacturing and QA tools has largely eradicated
    that advantage. It is interesting to note, in reference to Bob Givens' choice
    of Adobe and Microsoft as examples, that these two companies have been at the
    forefront of making font development tools freely available and, hence, of enabling
    small foundries and individual designers to compete in technical quality with
    larger companies. Since Adobe and Microsoft clearly have an interest in enabling
    such competition and in not becoming tied to a monopolistic megafoundry, I question
    the logic behind Bob's statement. Does making a company bigger really make it
    more attractive to clients who have demonstrated a desire to enable smaller companies
    to compete?\r\n\r\nOccupying the middle ground, between the megafoundry and the
    boutique foundry, are the ex-Monotype folk at Ascender Corp., who have probably
    been the most aggressive OEM-based type business for the past couple of years.
    For the time being, that is probably where Monotype sees its biggest competition
    in its most important market. Perhaps this is the context in which the acquisition
    of Linotype should be seen."
  created: '2006-08-03 21:11:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I don't know what kind of a deal you got with Microsoft for ClearType,  John,
    but I recall your lamenting the comparatively higher fees commanded by lawyers.
    Do you think you could have cut a better deal if you were the CEO of a large company?
    I expect so -- purchaser corporations like to match bodies, hierarchically speaking,
    with their suppliers, and if your company is flat, that's not possible. Neither
    Microsoft or Adobe mention type on their home page. Adobe leads with "Solutions".
    So I think Mr Givens talk of "delivering product" is a smokescreen -- the new
    company will be named "Font Solutions" :-)
  created: '2006-08-03 22:16:18'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Is this a sign of weakness or strength in the font industry? What does
    it mean?\r\n\r\nif they want to share the last-quarter profits -- we'll know.
    one of them is/was zombie , and see the quote: we need to be a strong comapny....\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    Bob Givens\u2019s quote has been taken out of context. In full, he said,\r\n\r\n\u201CWe
    need to be a strong company to deliver products to the likes of Adobe and Microsoft.
    Font people are tiny people. We are tiny businesses in comparison to these big
    companies. We will be much stronger together than we are alone\u201D.\r\n\r\nAdobe
    isn't just -- strong company; MS isn't just -- strong company, but company with
    strong vision. \r\n\r\n\r\n> What does it mean?\r\n\r\nThe Indies....   doing
    the job.\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2006-08-04 00:43:55'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"As a very small foundry that delivers to both Adobe and Microsoft,[] I
    disagree. What has been ably demonstrated [] is that small foundries and independent
    designers can compete with the large companies for OEM contracts as well as they
    can compete in the retail font market,\"\r\n\r\nSay what? Because MS and Adobe
    have significant internal staffs of type folk, small foundries can compete when
    delivering \"whatever\" and leaving the rest to the internal folk and/or their
    contractors. There are other models. :-\r\n\r\nCompetition in the OEM market,
    and in the retail market, are completely different until the retail market can
    contain fonts as transparently installed to networked users as the bundled MS
    fonts. Then, you'll see lots of founders of all sizes who can \"do it all\" not
    as a \"middle ground\", but as the ground that it should be, up ahead. On the
    other side, I have no idea what Tiro's volume is, but I know the FB's volume in
    retail fonts is way below the Big Sites and none of us, not even FS actually compete
    with those big retail sites, unless we're on them ;)\r\n\r\nThe tools published
    by MS and Adobe, (and Apple once), were to aid in the competition of formats,
    not to make competition among their suppliers. Competition among their suppliers
    was ensured by the release of Fontographer.:-\r\n\r\n\"purchaser corporations
    like to match bodies, hierarchically speaking\"\r\nGeeze. That's not true Nick...
    :-\r\n\r\n\" Neither Microsoft or Adobe mention type on their home page. \"\r\nand?
    They have type on the home page, that's a good thing. When they talk about it,
    that is generally a bad thing. "
  created: '2006-08-04 16:24:07'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">The tools published by MS and Adobe, (and Apple once), were to aid in the
    competition of formats, not to make competition among their suppliers. \r\n\r\nI
    don't think this contradicts David's claim but in way of clarification. The reason
    that internally-produced tools like VTT, VOLT and Font Validator were released
    free of charge to anyone making fonts was to improve the technical quality of
    fonts being used on the Windows platform. The fact that these same fonts could
    be used on Macs, Linux, and other platforms was not a major concern. Likewise
    the fact that these tools might level the playing field is not a bad thing for
    companies like Monotype or Linotype, as it increases the available expertise of
    people they can hire or partner with.  \r\n\r\nI realize that I'm talking about
    type and I apologise if that is considered a bad thing. \r\n"
  created: '2006-08-04 16:49:38'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Not to change the subject, but I''ve noticed that all the <A HREF="http://www.microsoft.com/typography/links/news.aspx?NID=5611">press</A>
    generated by this announcement has been published on the other side of the pond
    - wonder why the story isn''t of interest over here?  '
  created: '2006-08-04 16:57:22'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Allan Haley, who cannot seem to login, asked that I post the following:\r\n\r\n\"The
    acquisition of Linotype by Monotype Imaging was, indeed, momentous. Linotype could,
    however, have been acquired by a much larger company \u2013 a company that could
    have commoditized its wonderful typeface library. Monotype Imaging will never
    do that. As Bob Givens, the president and CEO of Monotype Imaging, said in several
    interviews, there will be no changes to Linotype\u2019s culture, structure, or
    personnel. Bob is good to his word.\r\n \r\nI am sure, however, that there are
    still many questions regarding the acquisition. I would be happy to try to answer
    any and all of them. Please feel free to write me at <allan.haley@monotypeimaging.com>,
    include your phone number and I will call or write to you. I will also be at TypeCon
    next week and welcome the opportunity to talk to you about the acquisition and
    what it may mean to you or your business.\r\n \r\nBob Givens, Bruno Steinert and
    Akira Kobayashi will also be at TypeCon. I\u2019m sure that they would also be
    happy to talk to you about the merging of Monotype Imaging and Linotype.\"\r\n
    \r\nAllan"
  created: '2006-08-04 17:02:15'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Why wasn't Monotype bought by Linotype?\r\n\r\nThe Heidelberger Druckmaschinen
    AG (\"Heideldruck\") is the world's largest prepress and printing maschine company
    with 3.5 billion Euro annual sales and 18,000 employees in the current fiscal
    year 2005/2006. Why should Heideldruck as the biggest company in this industry
    want to sell its small font department Linotype to Monotype? Why didn't Heideldruck
    buy the small Monotype outfit (although Heideldruck would have enough financial
    means to buy all font companies worldwide) ?\r\n\r\n10 years ago, the former Linotype
    had debts to the amount of 300 million Deutschmark. Heideldruck's CEO Hartmut
    Mehdorn waited like a vulture until Linotype was on the brink of bankruptcy, and
    then he bought Linotype for the symbolic purchasing price of one Dollar and transformed
    Linotype into a font department of Heideldruck. See the extract from a report
    made by Joachim Peters at that time attached below in German language.\r\n\r\nIt
    is my guess that now, 10 years after, Linotype was again on the brink of bankruptcy,
    and Heideldruck  decided that the font business is not lucrative enough and got
    rid of Linotype by selling it to Monotype, presumably again for the symbolic price
    of one Dollar.\r\n\r\n-----------------------------------------------------------------\r\n\r\nWie
    Heidelberg Linotype-Hell f\xFCr einen Dollar bekam\r\n(How Heideldruck bought
    Linotype for one Dollar)\r\n\r\n(Extract from a German article by Joachim Peters,
    06/1997)\r\n\r\nAls im Oktober 1995 Hartmut Mehdorn den Vorstandsvorsitz bei Heidelberg
    \xFCbernahm, befand sich die Linotype-Aktie schon im freien Fall. F\xFCr Heidelberg
    hat Mehdorn eine Einkaufsliste aufgestellt. Hinter Linotype-Hell stand darauf
    ein senkrechtes Kreuz: Abwarten, bis der Patient stirbt. \r\n\r\nDie Nachricht
    moribundus kam telephonisch um Pfingsten 1996. Mehdorn h\xF6rte den Bittsteller
    Dr. K\xF6nigs an und gab Order zu kaufen. Die Abwicklung erfolgte streng nach
    der Etikette der Gro\xDFfinanz.\r\n\r\nDer Bankier Dietrich-Kurt Frowein trat
    nach einem Jahrzehnt Amtszeit als Aufsichtsratsvorsitzender von Linotype-Hell
    zur\xFCck. Zugleich besann er sich auf zwei weitere Funktionen: Vorstandsmitglied
    der Commerzbank und Aufsichtsratsmitglied von Heidelberg. Die Commerzbank hielt
    \xFCber ihre Verm\xF6gensverwaltungsgesellschaft Frega rund 17 Prozent der Aktien
    von Linotype-Hell, weitere 33 Prozent lagen bei Siemens.\r\n\r\nHeidelberg war
    bereit, Linotype-Hell zu \xFCbernehmen, wenn die Commerzbank 75 Prozent der Aktien
    im Paket anbietet. Siemens nickte. Es galt also noch, von den freien Aktion\xE4ren
    ein Viertel des Stammkapitals einzusammeln. Zeit- und zielgerecht taumelte der
    Kurs noch einmal steil nach unten und erreichte den Tiefpunkt von 60 Mark pro
    Aktie. Die Commerzbank machte ein \xDCbernahmeangebot zum Kurs von 95 Mark. 8000
    freie Aktion\xE4re stie\xDFen ihre Depots ab.\r\n\r\nHeidelberg bekam das Gesamtpaket
    von 79 Prozent der Aktien rechnerisch f\xFCr maximal 180 Millionen Mark. Praktisch
    war es der ber\xFChmte Kauf f\xFCr einen Dollar. Linotype-Hell bringt 300 Millionen
    Verlustvortrag mit, der Heidelbergs Steuerlast etwa in H\xF6he des Kaufpreises
    mindert.\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-04 17:05:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Why should Heideldruck as the biggest company in this industry want to sell
    its small font department Linotype to Monotype? Why didn\u2019t Heideldruck buy
    the small Monotype outfit (although Heideldruck would have enough financial means
    to buy all font companies worldwide) ?\r\n\r\nIf you want to play the numbers
    game you should consider that \r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.ta.com/\">TA</A>, Monotype
    Imaging's owner has $10 billion of capital - so they could likely swallow up the
    entire Heidel-outfit and half of Belgium if they really wanted to. \r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si \r\n\r\nPS. small e in euro please - you wouldn't want to get in trouble with
    the EU authorities. ;-)"
  created: '2006-08-04 17:13:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>purchaser corporations like to match bodies, hierarchically speaking\u201D\r\nGeeze.
    That\u2019s not true Nick\u2026 :-</em>\r\n\r\nWell I suppose you're right in
    that the CEO of Microsoft doesn't have too many meetings with the CEOs of companies
    which supply him with typographic solutions, but that's my point.\r\n\r\nBody,
    or job matching: the marketing manager of a corporate client deals with the CEO
    of a creative supplier; the product manager deals with the account executive."
  created: '2006-08-04 19:30:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t know what kind of a deal you got with Microsoft for ClearType,
    John, but I recall your lamenting the comparatively higher fees commanded by lawyers.
    Do you think you could have cut a better deal if you were the CEO of a large company?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm
    very happy with the fee I received for the CT font work. My comment about lawyer
    fees wasn't a lament, merely an ironic comment on what MS pay for global trademark
    searches on typeface names.\r\n\r\nI don't know how much Monotype charged for
    the Cambria development, so I don't know if it was significantly different from
    what the independent designers charged. But I'm pretty sure that what the Monotype
    designers got paid in salary from Monotype was less than the independent designers
    received as design fees. From the type designers' perspective, that is what matters.
    If independent designers can be competetive in pricing and quality with large
    foundries and still make more money than their colleagues who work for e.g. Monotype,
    that is obviously the better situation for type designers to be in. Some people,
    I suppose, like the regularity of a pay cheque and don't want to have to go looking
    for work, but it doesn't appeal to me."
  created: '2006-08-04 23:25:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>Because MS and Adobe have significant internal staffs of type
    folk, small foundries can compete when delivering \u201Cwhatever\u201D and leaving
    the rest to the internal folk and/or their contractors.</em>\r\n\r\nMicrosoft's
    quality requirements have become much higher in recent years. They don't like
    having to do much work on fonts; hence the free distribution of Font Validator
    and other tools to improve QA.\r\n\r\nTiro has been responsible for basically
    all manufacturing on every font I have delivered to Microsoft and Adobe in the
    past four years. Even if they do find bugs in testing, they get us to fix them
    and provide new sources, rather than touching the fonts themselves."
  created: '2006-08-04 23:34:02'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "There's a name for this syndrome:\r\n\r\nINFECTIOUS MONO\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2006-08-06 04:42:40'
- author:
    name: Bobby Henderson
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MyOIdAssScanner_3505.jpg]\r\n\r\nWith
    the merger complete, do you think there's any chance they'll buy back my overpriced
    old-assed mere 1200ppi SCSI scanner?"
  created: '2006-08-06 06:41:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Tiro has been responsible for basically all manufacturing on every font
    I have delivered to Microsoft and Adobe in the past four years\"\r\n\r\nThat may
    be true, John. Unfortunately the point was not responsibility, but completeness.
    And the fact is, though this is from the point of view of someone looking from
    the outside, (and at a seven-year development with no documentation ;), you did
    not, could not, and probably still cannot do it ALL (make CT products, e.g.) internally.
    \r\n\r\nI'll throw in Apple 'cause you brought them up, they have old tired shoes
    and MS has custom shoes for \"feet\" that have not yet existed, could not have
    developed \"naturally\" and are not likley to last long, they are so \"big\".
    The requirements of these kind of fonts for the future is not clear, though I
    had a long conversation with MS about it. But smaller foundries are never going
    to be able to make much less distribute these fonts succesfully. \r\n\r\nif that
    is even important to the commonwealth :) Do you think it is?"
  created: '2006-08-06 12:05:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>FB\u2019s volume in retail fonts is way below the Big Sites and none
    of us, not even FS actually compete with those big retail sites, unless we\u2019re
    on them</em>\r\n\r\nBut FB has chosen not to compete -- its web site positions
    the company primarily as a supplier of fonts for periodicals to the trade, not
    Helvetica and scripts for the masses. Although scale it out a bit and change the
    g, and Bureau Grotesque could become Bureau Helvetica :-)\r\n\r\nIn theory, a
    reciprocal distributor-foundry arrangement may be possible, where FB could distribute,
    say, the fonts that Veer distributes, but that would get messy as FB would end
    up selling Shinntype fonts et al. And all those extra fonts would dilute its market
    position, if not actually compete with its own product. Another marketing option
    would be a \"distributed retail co-op\", where several foundries sell each others
    fonts as well as their own. That's something I'd like to do, if I ever get it
    together to add e-commerce to my site.\r\n\r\nThe big sites depend on representing
    a lot of foundries, fairly indiscriminately, to bottom trawl the end of the long
    tail, and in order to keep a constant stream of fresh product enlivening their
    sites, which no foundry can do at the same rate, although FB and House keep up
    a fair clip. FSI and Linotype maintain production rate by actively courting freelance
    designers. FB and Emigre publish both in-house and freelance designs.\r\n\r\n<em>But
    smaller foundries are never going to be able to make much less distribute these
    fonts succesfully.</em>\r\n\r\nIt would be nice to think that the Internet levels
    the field, but the traditional retail distinctions of manufacturers, wholesalers,
    retailers, factory direct, and distributor house brands still apply, along with
    the conflicts they produce. Then mix in custom work done by individuals who work
    for or own one or more of those categories, or freelancers, and it gets messy.
    Nothing to do with technological capabilities. "
  created: '2006-08-06 19:15:49'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Nick, what you are leaving out of your equation is the fact that resellers
    have found, again and again, that they must represent the maximum number of foundries
    for the simple reason that a substantial portion of their purchasers will have
    a purchase order that can only be spent in one place. So a corporate designer
    out on his let''s say twice yearly shopping spree can''t spend a little here and
    a little there, but must find the reseller who has the greatest number of his
    choices. '
  created: '2006-08-07 22:37:07'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"But FB has chosen not to compete \u2014 \"\r\n\r\nNot exactly Nick. We've
    chosen to compete where our added services are often required, and we've chosen
    to license where added services are not often required. I think this is because
    we try hard to make sense."
  created: '2006-08-08 13:27:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...a substantial portion of their purchasers will have a purchase order
    that can only be spent in one place.\"\r\n\r\nAnd if that ONE place is MyFonts?
    \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-08 13:34:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Myfonts.com sells fonts from most of the foundries, even the huge ones. If
    one stop shopping is the market driver, MyFonts is the \"Big Box Store\" of type--Instead
    of being a Walmart, it is more like a coop though.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-08 13:39:01'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "I don't know what the figures are, but myfonts.com seems to have all of the
    mindshare and most of the marketshare. I would imagine that one hope in the Lino/Mono
    alliance is to be able to compete better online, but myfonts.com already seems
    to be to fonts what Google is to search engines. \r\n\r\nHowever, it is always
    incredibly unlikely that real font income will primarily come from retail sales,
    and it is worth noting that Lino/Mono were much more interested in talking about
    fonts and mobile phones last week, than fonts and traditional printing.\r\n\r\nMoving
    down the feeding chain, for a company like Font Bureau, retail sales have always
    been a minor focus. The major focus has been on identifying the few customers
    still willing to pay handsomely for very high quality fonts, and delivering a
    product that actually works for its intended use. \r\n\r\nIt's a much more difficult
    world for smaller foundries, which don't have the technical expertise to attract
    that calibre of customer. Smaller foundries are much more like to have to rely
    on impulse purchases, most likely of novelty, decorative fonts that don't require
    the expert construction of a successful newspaper or book font. \r\n\r\nIt's amazing
    how many things can go wrong with a text font. I was just looking at a luxurious
    catalogue set in Scala Serif, a font I've always thought highly of, and I noticed
    that the sidebearings of the left and right single quotes were disturbingly out
    of balance. I wondered if this was a problem with the font? With one of the many
    versions of the font? With a pirated version? Was the designer of the text using
    some special kerning that put the quote marks out of balance? Who knows! At least
    with Font Bureau fonts, you never have to worry that things like that will go
    wrong. The basic problem, of course, isn't the font, but the person who is using
    it. If people setting type today don't know, and don't care that quotation marks
    look correctly balanced, what's the point?"
  created: '2006-08-10 13:15:46'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "<em>\u201CI don\u2019t know what the figures are, but myfonts.com seems to
    have all of the mindshare and most of the marketshare.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nI only
    know what our numbers are (shhh... it's a secret...) and the relative size of
    the marketplace. Based on that, I am comfortable in saying that MyFonts.com does
    not have <em>\u201Call of the mindshare and most of the marketshare\u201D</em>.
    Yes, they are a prime mover in the marketplace, but so are Veer and FontShop.
    I would argue that the majority of creative consumers purchase products from sources
    they like - more often than sources that simply have more to choose from. Selection
    and price are strong persuaders, but so are ease of use, site functionality, customer
    service, alternative product categories, voice and attitude, quality of marketing
    materials, affective use dead-tree media, etc. All of the above companies share
    many of these qualities, but they also differ drastically in how they implement
    them."
  created: '2006-08-10 16:29:46'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "I dunno Grant, why not give us some numbers? \r\n\r\nThe funniest thing about
    the font industry is how close everybody is with their numbers. I can't see that
    these numbers are of any particular value to their competition anyway. But everyone
    seems to think so. So let me put a couple of more general questions to you, Grant.\r\n\r\n1.
    Suppose that we all had an idea of what myfont.com's marketshare was. How could
    this knowledge possibly harm myfont.com and how could it possible help its competitors?\r\n\r\n2.
    Same thing with your numbers. Suppose we knew you sold 38,000 units netting $x
    per month on average for the first quarter this year, x % from catalogue, x %
    from the web. To what extent is this knowledge really going to hurt you or help
    your competitors? \r\n\r\nIt sometimes seems that the font biz is the only biz
    in the world where people are afraid to come out with this info, and I have the
    theory that this might actually be harmful rather than helpful. One reason being
    that you can't really do any substantive economic forecasting about an industry
    if you don't have adequate factual information. \r\n\r\nTo what extent does this
    truly tiny industry benefit from secrecy? \r\n\r\nHey, if someone can establish
    that this probably somewhat holey veil of secrecy is actually beneficial for the
    industry, I'm all for it. Anything that helps the font industry is a good thing.
    But what if this secrecy is a self-defeating mechanism? Is that possible?"
  created: '2006-08-11 16:25:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David:\r\n\r\n<em> Unfortunately the point was not responsibility, but completeness.
    And the fact is, though this is from the point of view of someone looking from
    the outside, (and at a seven-year development with no documentation ;), you did
    not, could not, and probably still cannot do it ALL (make CT products, e.g.) internally.</em>\r\n\r\nSorry,
    but you're wrong on that one. MS gave us the tools, we made the fonts.\r\n\r\nIronically,
    considering Bob Given's comment that 'We need to be a strong company to deliver
    products to the likes of Adobe and Microsoft', one of the things I needed to do
    in mastering the CT fonts was to rebuild the Cambria OTL tables from VOLT because
    Monotype's own tools had generated GSUB table errors.\r\n\r\n<em>The requirements
    of these kind of fonts for the future is not clear...</em>\r\n\r\nThis is true,
    although I'm not sure in which sense you mean. It is true in both senses:\r\n\r\nThe
    requirement to have this kind of font in the future is not clear (the same point
    that Matthew made to MS when they asked him to design Verdana and Georgia: a font
    optimised for a particular technology will be obsolete before too many years).\r\n\r\nAnd
    the obverse of this coin:\r\n\r\nThe requirements of a font optimised for CT in
    the future is not clear,  because CT itself is a moving target.\r\n\r\n<em>But
    smaller foundries are never going to be able to make much less distribute these
    fonts succesfully.</em>\r\n\r\nWho said anything about distributing? Bob Givens
    made a comment about <em>delivering to Microsoft,</em> suggesting that a company
    needs to be big and strong in order to deliver products to Microsoft. I made the
    observation, based on experience, that this is not the case. When Microsoft goes
    shopping for multiple font families to bundle with products, obviously a company
    like Monotype with a large library has an advantage. When Microsoft goes shopping
    for new, custom designs, small foundries and independent designers have a creative
    advantage, which they can leverage if they organise themselves in ways that maximise
    their ability to deliver. The CT font project was an interesting case because
    Monotype was the one corporate participant alongside a group of independent designers.
    Hinting was split between Monotype (Cambria, Candara, Meiryo), Tiro (Constantia,
    Corbel) and LucasFonts (Calibri, Consolas), and Tiro was responsible for final
    mastering of all the western fonts, including the Monotype submission. [Tiro was
    subsequently given the job of taking Cambria and making a math font out of it.]\r\n\r\nIn
    conclusion, there are many good reasons why a company like Monotype buys a company
    like Linotype. But you don't need to buy Linotype in order to be able to deliver
    fonts to Microsoft. That's just silly pressreleasesprache."
  created: '2006-08-11 17:47:28'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: "Monoype finally gets the US registration back for Times Roman! \r\nEven funnier
    though, is, well a knockoff, like Palladin (Compugraphic), will it be discontinued
    because they got the real thing? What about Arial? Monotype now owns the font
    that they knocked off for MS, boy, fonts are a mess! CG pushed Lino way back when
    and it was good for the font business overall. \r\nBusiness wise Heidelberg has
    been divesting itself from non core operations. Notice barely any prepress on
    their website (I think Screen actually builds the Platesetters for them). No scanners
    of any sort, they got rid of all the digital printing (toner based) and then all
    the Direct Imaging (DI) presses and they got rid of their web presses too.\r\nI
    was way ahead on this merger, having had a Compugraphic front end and a Linotronic
    202! Oh yeah, they blamed each other when things went wrong!\r\nLibrary wise it
    makes a lot of sense and Monotype Imaging has a virtual stranglehold on the classic
    font libraries. Uhm can some one cough up Berthold?\r\nIf you have been around
    fonts long enough, you must admit that Bitstream won, becuase Linotype was the
    last big player from the font middle ages where typesetting machines and fonts
    were tied together. Personally, if I were Monotype systems, I would put all the
    fonts into one library and sell them as unified, assimilation is the way to go.\r\n\r\nRodi\r\n\r\nThe
    Truth shall set you free"
  children:
  - author:
      name: jelleb
    body: "John Hudson contributed:\r\n\r\n\"Ironically, considering Bob Given\u2019s
      comment that \u2018We need to be a strong company to deliver products to the
      likes of Adobe and Microsoft\u2019, one of the things I needed to do in mastering
      the CT fonts was to rebuild the Cambria OTL tables from VOLT because Monotype\u2019s
      own tools had generated GSUB table errors.\"\r\n\r\nWell, did I get through
      all the trouble of producing a Volt version of Cambria, in comes John Hudson
      and does the work all over again (and he is not shy to let us all know). Maybe
      somebody lost the master source file?\r\nThe errors in the original GSUB tables
      were errors flagged by FontValidator which was confronted with a class based
      chained context lookup. The tool that created this font supports several formats
      of contextual lookups, as opposed to Volt and the Adobe tools, which support
      one format only, which is neither powerfull nor efficient. It is my bad luck
      to have created a tool that does all other formats and is thus confronted with
      having to explain that the font bugs that FontValidator reports are FontValidator
      bugs.\r\n\r\nUurg.\r\n\r\ncheers ;-)\r\n\r\nJelle"
    created: '2006-08-14 17:20:50'
  created: '2006-08-12 11:31:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "No, Jelle, I didn't do your VOLT work over again, I made use of your VOLT
    work in order to rebuild the OTL tables after encountering the Font Validator
    error message generated in response to the lookups produced by your tool. Thanks
    for the explanation about the Font Validator limitation -- which surprises me,
    since I'd presumed FV to reflect the spec in this regard --, and I happily withdraw
    any hint of criticism about the way in which you'd built the fonts. I raised this
    example to make the point that one doesn't need to be a 'big, strong' company
    in order to deliver products to a company like Microsoft, and being such a company
    doesn't guarantee that you will deliver what a company like Microsoft wants (which
    in this case, for better or worse, happened to include OTL tables that would pass
    Font Validator).\r\n\r\nNo, I'm not shy about letting people know what kind of
    work I do, because there is one thing at which 'big, strong' companies like Monotype
    Imaging are currently more successful, and that is getting press releases noticed
    by the media. So those of us working independently need to blow our own horns,
    while Monotype gets blown by e.g. <a href=\"http://www.macworld.co.uk/news/index.cfm?NewsID=15426&Page=1&pagePos=3\">Macworld</a>."
  created: '2006-08-16 21:10:35'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Philosophically, I must admit I am in agreement with Bob Givens and with
    Jelle. I have long thought that to produce even a wholly successful font with
    just a hundred basic characters usually requires a large-ish company. The reason
    is that so many skill sets go into a really good font, and no single person (other
    than Matthew Carter of course!) has them all. You really need other people working
    with you. And they need to have an economic stake in what you are doing. Critique
    from friends is no substitute. \r\n\r\nI think the ClearType project showed clearly
    the kinds of things that go wrong when a corporate organization of professional
    type people is not involved in the production of an important typeface. To give
    but one example, after the initial criticisms of ClearType on this forum, John
    finally learnt that optical kerning in Adobe InDesign will always spoil a well-fitted
    typeface. But it took seven long years of enthusiastic use for that message to
    get across. What this reveals of course is that John doesn't understand typeface
    fitting, and probably never will. But that's OK! Lots of very fine technicians
    and designers don't understand it. However, they need to be working within a corporate
    group where there is someone who can be relied upon to sort these problems out.
    Each of us has only so much expertise, and only so much strength in any particular
    area of typeface design. That's why I think, that for most of us, and for most
    typefaces, the greatest chance of success is to working with the maximum number
    of highly qualified people, and this can only happen within a large organization
    dedicated to typeface manufacture. \r\n\r\nFor this reason, I think the Monotype/Linotype
    merger will ultimately have a beneficial effect on the industry, but only if the
    businessmen who run it are successful enough to ensure that real expertise is
    preserved and strengthened under the larger umbrella. There is every indication
    this will be the case, but only time will tell how the story unfolds.\r\n\r\nType
    in the end is primarily an industrial process which requires an industry around
    it. The paradox is that it still requires the individual artist/artisan to keep
    it on track. But the individual artist/artisan needs the corporation to keep on
    track as well. In type, everyone needs everyone else. "
  created: '2006-08-17 09:34:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, you underestimate the extent to which digital media has changed the
    game.\r\nThe brevity of the feedback loop is insane -- being able to make incremental
    and multiple changes to a font and immediately view a high res printout makes
    it possible to gain in months the experience that took our predecessors years.
    \r\n\r\nOn the one hand, it's nice to see a general professionalism spreading
    in a flourishing multi-foundry, font-using universe, but we should also beware
    of institutionalized conservatism, whether it comes in educational or corporate
    packages.\r\n\r\n<em>Type in the end is primarily an industrial process</em>\r\n\r\nHistory
    suggests an opposite trend. The Linotype put a miniature foundry at a publisher's
    disposal, for on-demand use; the Mac digitized the foundry's production processes
    and put them on a desktop. That changes the aesthetic, but what you're saying
    is it always need an orchestra and a recording studio to make a record, and only
    symphonies are worth listening to. "
  created: '2006-08-17 16:56:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\n1. I do not use InDesign's optical kerning other than in rare
    situations where glyphs from different fonts are adjacent, and of course if the
    results are not good I manually change them. I have never 'enthusiastically' used
    it. After some basic testing I made, as I recall, one comment about it once on
    some discussion list when InDesign first shipped, saying that I found the results
    surprisingly good and useful in certain circumstances. I've never understood why
    you generated, and continue to generate, such an extensive fantasy out of this.\r\n\r\n2.
    You've seen Constantia in use. Do you really think it is spaced by someone who
    'doesn\u2019t understand typeface fitting'?\r\n\r\n3. I agree entirely that the
    people involved in the production of type need to have an economic stake in it.
    What I question is whether a venture capital company needs to have an economic
    stake in it, whether shareholders of public companies need to have an economic
    stake in it, and why the profits of the making of type should go to people other
    than the people who make type. And I raise these questions precisely becase, as
    Bob Givens says, type people are little people. Or do you think big companies
    are the friends of little people?"
  created: '2006-08-17 17:32:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If you compare it to the movie industry, you can see some possible parallels.
    The technology has made it such that the independent film maker can produce quality
    work without a mega-studio.  The old hollywood corporate studios rarely make a
    film which is not a redo of an older film and are perhaps stifled by the long
    corporate line of decision making.  The more creative films are the indifilms
    who do it as much out of love as money. The type industry is not as bad as that
    by any stretch because they have found outside design resources in the indie type
    design community and are more open to new ideas. There is no need for the huge
    infrastructure to make type anymore so even the big foundries have very few staff
    designers.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-17 17:37:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">to produce even a wholly successful font with just a hundred basic characters
    usually requires a large-ish company.\r\n\r\nThis just doesn't seem to correspond
    to current realities. Font Bureau I believe produces the most-used types for newspapers.
    And Hoefler and Frere Jones together with Font Bureau have produced very many
    of the new magazine faces now in use. Font Bureau has used contract designers
    such as Christian Schwartz, and Matthew Carter and only have four or five people
    who draw type in-house. Hoefler and Frere Jones are about the same size, or a
    bit smaller, I believe. And there are independents like John Hudson and James
    Montalbano who seem to be doing well producing text faces both as far as the quality
    of their work and its reception. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-17 18:36:27'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "I think what distinguishes big foundries is that they can afford their own
    full-time marketing staff. As with any other product, the story you wrap around
    it and attention you get is at least as important as the product itself.\r\n\r\nAs
    I understood him, Bill's focus was not so much on type design competence but technical
    competence.\r\nWith exception of the two companies which set the digital type
    standards -- I doubt that bigger foundries have more technical competence than
    small ones. Of course big foundries want type designers belief that this is so;
    in fact this, plus their name and established distribution channels, is all they
    can offer. But as to expertise, the few <cite>real</cite> experts seem to be evenly
    distributed among in-house/big foundries (like Jelle Bosma) and external/independent
    (like Luc[as] de Groot). Concluding from 'big' to 'competent' is a mistake."
  created: '2006-08-17 19:11:18'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "What is big? As far as I can see, Font Bureau is the minimum size to produce
    what to me is good work. But that wouldn't be possible without its exceptional
    personnel. But William, when you say 'This just doesn\u2019t seem to correspond
    to current realities', I doubt that you are looking at typefaces the way I am.
    Let me give you one example, not taken from one of the rather too defensive bad
    spacers in this discussion. I pick up the catalogue for the NPG McBean exhibition,
    and look at the Director's Foreword. Immediately, several words and word combinations
    stand out:\r\n\r\nDirector's Foreword\r\n'real'\r\nMcBean's\r\n'Surrealised Portraits'\r\nPepper's\r\n\r\nIn
    each case, the left quote looks normal, but the right quote is much, much too
    close to the preceding character. Is the right quote not properly fitted? No,
    such a thing could not be possible with such a popular, admired typeface. Could
    the graphic designer have done some weird thing? Is this some odd effect of Adobe
    Optical Kerning? \r\n\r\nI open the typeface. As I would expect, the left and
    right quote marks are reasonably well-fitted, in reasonable balance. Where is
    the problem coming from? As a last resort I look at the kerning. Here I find some
    astonishing values: n-quote right, -140, r-quote right -37, l-quote right, -100,
    and so on. I've never seen anything like it. It makes the typeface unusable with
    kerning -- in my eyes. \r\n\r\nThis is not the kind of thing that could happen
    with a Font Bureau font, an Adobe font, or any of the Lino/Mono fonts that have
    gone through the traditional quality control process.\r\n\r\nAs far as I know,
    nobody, in all these years in which there have been hundreds of thousands of publications
    using this attractive typeface, has ever commented on this obvious and frequently-occurring
    flaw. \r\n\r\nIt illustrates my point that by and large, most fonts produced today
    by individuals, have decisive flaws that could be avoided if the designers were
    working in cooperative environments.\r\n\r\nBy and large, the model of the single
    artist/artisan just doesn't cut it with type. There is too much to go wrong. A
    typeface is not an artwork whose possible flaws may subsequently have no functional
    effect. A typeface is a utilitarian tool and its flaws will multiply into any
    publication or application that uses it. Ego and art have their places in typeface
    design, but by and large I think they need to be balanced by the discipline of
    a cooperative, industrial environment.\r\n\r\nTo those who are defensive about
    their spacing, all I can say is, your spacing isn't going to get any better until
    you acknowledge you need help. I realize that every independent wants to market
    himself as an all-competent master. But that's too much to expect from any one
    person, with some rare exceptions. There are so many things that go into a fully
    functional, fully utilitarian, fully successful typeface. There is no need to
    be ashamed if one cannot master every facet.\r\n\r\nI'm trying to think through
    John's point about venture capitalists. My first reaction is to ask, what's the
    matter with type being backed by venture capitalists? Isn't that vaguely how capitalism
    works? Isn't it normal for business enterprises to require some kind of financial
    backing? "
  created: '2006-08-18 12:42:12'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "An earlier version of Gill Sans had considerably over-kerned combinations
    of space--W space--V etc. In text this looked as if there were no space at all.
    It is a typeface by a big foundry. Moreover, a heavily used typeface. But obviously
    noone recognized ... (To my knowledge, this has been fixed.)\r\nAt university
    we could use a font library by a big foundry, and I remember that I looked <cite>very</cite>
    closely into what I considered essential text fonts -- and wasn't overwhelmingly
    impressed by their spacing and kerning.\r\nThis in mind, I don't see what your
    kerning example is supposed to prove.\r\nAt the same time, there are no 'objective'
    measures for 'good spacing'. Type designers A and B may use different methods
    and pay attention to different aspects, with different results. Yet both may produce
    'good' results, by their measures. Just as typographers have different opinions
    about typography.\r\n\r\nI do not know any independent who claims to be the know-it-all
    guy. There's happy cooperation among collegues many of whom are most generous
    with their time.\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-18 14:09:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>To those who are defensive about their spacing, all I can say is, your
    spacing isn\u2019t going to get any better until you acknowledge you need help.</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    are the defensive one Bill, a corporate apologist. Indie-envy? "
  created: '2006-08-18 17:22:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the traditional quality control process\r\n\r\nI think you are missing something
    important here: the large companies ain't what they used to be. \r\n\r\nI visited
    the Museum of Printing and Larry Oppenberg showed me some of the Merg. Linotype
    drawings (they have over 300 k) and told me about the design process. They had
    a room full of people drawing type in Brooklyn, with supervisors and at the top
    Chauncy Griffith. That was expertise and quality control. And I suppose something
    of the like was going on at Monotype.   \r\n\r\nThe advent of photo type and then
    digital type seems to have been a one-two punch to the traditional large companies.
    In the first generation of digital the BIG companies made a lot of the classic
    types too light. This was not a model of competence, but a mess-up. Currently
    Linotype has I believe one person on staff who draws type as part of his job--Akira
    Kobayashi--and Adobe has one--Robert Slimbach. \r\n\r\nSome of the mentors in
    the field now are those who went through the old drawing shops before they collapsed.
    But you also have some gathering of expertise at schools like Reading and KABK.
    And you have importantly the type conventions, typophile and just a wonderful
    generous spirit in the type world, a spirit that is hard to find elsewhere. \r\n\r\nI
    think Karsten nailed it when he said type expertise is scattered among places
    of different sizes and independents. "
  created: '2006-08-18 19:25:37'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"This is not the kind of thing that could happen with a Font Bureau font,
    an Adobe font, or any of the Lino/Mono fonts that have gone through the traditional
    quality control process.\"\r\n\r\nThis is untrue and simplistic.\r\n\r\nA QA stage
    in font production still doesn't guarantee perfection in all details, and a small
    foundry staff doesn't preclude a thorough QA cycle. Since the start of PostScript
    (for a manageable example), there have been many classic types from large foundries
    which have needed re-versioning to fix issues of spacing, kerning, and other technical
    functionality, even leaving out the typical complaints about design. It's the
    nature of software. It's worth noting that type now is software as well as a tool.
    Previous technologies had their issues and limitations; bugs are part of the picture
    now. And bugs of the magnitude of the one you mention don't disable the typeface
    from working; there are degrees of functionality. \r\n\r\nBill, you might follow
    Karsten's example and dig a little deeper into the actual workings of a few more
    typefaces before sounding the alarm that independent type designers are unqualified
    to deliver reasonably functional typefaces. Shall we tell the UK Guardian, San
    Francisco Chronicle or Martha Stewart to dump all their proprietary type families,
    since they were made by mere independents? Think of Letterror, Underware, or House
    Industries, each with a small staff of highly competent designers and technicians,
    not only providing fonts of high quality, but innovating in the application of
    new technology. \r\n\r\nI wonder what informs your pronouncements about other
    people's work. Are there typefaces you've released that we can examine for perfection
    in every aspect? "
  created: '2006-08-18 19:58:57'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Carl - Amen. Though I'm not sure your example of the <em>Guardian</em> will
    ring true with Bill. He thinks Christian Schwartz's work is a copy of Swift. Yikes.
    Bill has made some valid and poignant pronouncements over the years -- this is
    not one of them.
  created: '2006-08-18 20:13:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>It illustrates my point that by and large, most fonts produced
    today by individuals, have decisive flaws that could be avoided if the designers
    were working in cooperative environments.</em>\r\n\r\nOn this point, we are to
    some extent in agreement. Much of my own work is cooperative, involving a team
    approach to development of fonts for complex scripts. Where I think you are wrong
    is in assuming that cooperative = corporate (in the capitalist sense). I see a
    lot of good work being done by small teams of people who are dedicated to both
    design and technical quality, and who can afford to be so dedicated because they
    are the recipients of the money that is paid for the work that they do. At the
    least, such dedication to quality is more difficult in a situation in which the
    bottom line is to provide a profit to someone who is not involved in that work,
    who is not familiar with that work, who has no stake in that work other than as
    a line item in an annual report.\r\n\r\nMany of today's successful independent
    designers started working doing pretty much everything themselves, because that
    was the only financially viable way to operate, and I think that you are right,
    Bill, that this sometimes led to problems in the products. At the same time, we
    can also see the massive problems in whole lines of products that came out of
    the large type companies in their hasty efforts to convert historical libraries
    to new formats in order to be able to survive and compete. And both independent
    designers and large companies during that period suffered from lack of well developed
    QA procedures for the new formats, inadequate production and testing tools, insufficiently
    documented font formats, etc. Solutions to most of these problems have only come
    in recent years, with the advent of OpenType, and not only have these solutions
    benefited both large companies and independent designers, in many cases they have
    been driven by the needs of those independent and small font developers, actively
    involved in discussions with Microsoft and Adobe, actively involved in beta testing
    font production and testing tools and, crucially, sharing information <em>cooperatively.</em>
    An event like Linotype's Typotechnica is a good example of this -- and a great
    credit to Linotype --, and I don't think anyone attending these events, or even
    reviewing the programme of speakers, can be in any doubt about who is learning
    from whom. The speakers are almost all independent font developers.\r\n\r\nAs
    independent font developers become more successful and experienced, attracting
    bigger clients and being able to charge higher fees, they can afford to start
    hiring staff (as Hoefler and Frere-Jones have done, for example) or taking on
    collaborative projects with other designers (as I have done for the Adobe Arabic
    and Thai fonts, and am doing on other projects) or contracting technicians and
    programmers. What remains the same, though, is that the income generated by their
    work is going to the people who make the type and to the people who care about
    the quality of the work, which in the long run is a more stable financial basis
    for the type business to operate on. How many big type companies have gone bankrupt
    and disappeared in the past thirty years? How many times have the surviving ones
    been in receivership or have changed hands? How often have they been bought or
    sold by parent companies with no interest in or knowldge of type and typography?
    Do you really think this is a sensible, viable model conducive to the development
    and maintenance of high standards of design and manufacture?"
  created: '2006-08-18 21:37:55'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">You are the defensive one Bill, a corporate apologist. Indie-envy?\r\n\r\nYou'd
    rather I be an apologist for Richler and the Shinn School of Fitting? You know
    I love your work, Nick, let's leave it at that.\r\n\r\nWilliam, I have discussed
    your point about the drawing offices until I was blue in the face. Of course I
    am aware of it. It is unquestionable that the types they produced, as printing
    types, are superior to most of what we see in print today. You just have to compare
    books printed in the 1930s, 40s, 50s, with books printed today. It's all there.
    What it comes down to in the end is size optimization. Size-specific masters have
    been available since the days of photo. There hasn't ever been much demand for
    them. However, I do think drawing-office style size optimization is the only way
    to produce type that is as good as ... drawing office type, and there is one man
    doing it the right way today, Sumner Stone. I wrote a drastically simplified article
    about what Sumner's been doing a couple of issues ago in MacDirectory; unfortunately,
    in the web edition, they never posted the most important part, the illustration
    page. I'm hoping I can get something workable together and post the url for anyone
    interested in reading this, although it is perhaps a bit simplistic for Typophile
    readers.\r\n\r\nOf course it's unquestionable that this particular expertise is
    not where it once was. \r\n\r\nMy point about independents is that the kind of
    mistakes that are likely to be made by an independent would ideally be precluded
    in a more corporate environment, and I still really do think great type is a corporate
    (in the deepest sense of the word) endeavour. \r\n\r\nI think Karsten's point
    about cooperation is overly optimistic. Your best friend may spend a few hours,
    at most, looking at your work and offering a few tips. But nobody is going to
    spend a month examining your font for problems unless you're both working for
    or with a foundry. \r\n\r\nCarl writes, 'I wonder what informs your pronouncements
    about other people\u2019s work.'\r\n\r\nIf I had to summarize, I'd say, paying
    attention to the drawing office model. Carl, I guess you weren't in the loop when
    Steve Matteson asked me to redraw Bembo for Monotype, in 1996. We got a nice draft
    of the 72 point going and then I decided to pull out of the project when I started
    working with Adobe. \r\n\r\nHe continues, 'Are there typefaces you\u2019ve released
    that we can examine for perfection in every aspect?'\r\n\r\nWell, the Adagio Didot
    family looks pretty good, but it hasn't had a distributor since Precision Type
    went out of business, and I've been too lazy to look for anyone else, and in any
    case, it's in need of drastic revision, at least in my opinion. It would be pointless
    to re-release it without doing something to make it better. My multiple master
    of News Gothic for Bitstream is also pretty good - that came out a few years ago
    on the first Type Odyssey CD - and it's really a competent piece of work if you
    consider it was done in two weeks and the production fonts were made in Fontographer.
    In both cases, I had some very expert helping hands, Jeff Level and Jim Lyles.
    I must have a dozen or so other fonts in the pipeline that I'm in no hurry whatsoever
    to release and if you send me a private email I'll be glad to send you some work
    to take apart. I would really like that. The project that is closest to getting
    released is probably my revival of Pilgrim for Lino, but if you want to know the
    probable timeline, you'll have to ask Bruno. We've been talking about it and exchanging
    views and looking at data since 1996, and for all I know it may be another ten
    years before it gets released to my satisfaction. Very little of what I choose
    to work on is particularly commercial, and things tend to happen slowly. But what's
    the rush? \r\n\r\nI think I know what I'm interested in, as regards type, at this
    point.  I asked Mac Directory magazine to let me do some articles on type designers,
    and they agreed. So I had to ask myself, who do I really admire? Whose work do
    I really want to think about and write about? And really, I suppose it's very
    boring, but I decided that at this point, though I usually find something to like
    in nearly every font I see, it came down to Zapf, Frutiger, Carter, Stone, and
    Berlow. These are all very great problem-solvers in type. I don't see others of
    that calibre around, and I'm not convinced that there are many developing that
    kind of calibre. And partly that's because of a real lack of rigour. \r\n\r\nWhat's
    a lack of rigour? Well, for one thing, people going overboard the minute you make
    the slightest criticism of their work. You know Carl, a few months ago I was talking
    to Sumner about Cycles and I said I thought the fitting of the o shapes was too
    loose. He didn't get all snippy. One reason why is that Sumner really, really
    knows why he fits the way he does and is interested in discussing it. I learned
    a lot from it. And it was unthinkable that he would treat me as a pariah for bringing
    it up. I mentioned it to Matthew Carter a week or two later, and he had some insights
    into the possible underlying technological reason of different fitting systems,
    and so it goes on.\r\n\r\nI've never had a discussion of that quality online,
    but I keep on trying. And aren't we straying rather far off topic? We should be
    celebrating what a miracle it is that Lino and Mono are still alive and well,
    and that their combination is probably going to make for even greater health.
    Around 1994, Ricky Schreiber at Linotype told me it was clear the American division
    of Linotype would have to close, and he didn't see how any part of the corporation
    could survive. The reason was that Linotype had determined that almost everyone
    who wanted an imagesetter had already bought one, and imagesetters were these
    companies' primary source of income. The other foundries were in the same boat.
    But somehow these amazing businessmen, Bob Givens, Bruno Steinert, and of course
    Ira Marachnik and Bill Davis (now of Ascender) kept their enterprises afloat after
    their legs had been cut off. Isn't that a really quite remarkable achievement?
    These people aren't ordinary businessmen, not least because their devotion to
    type is unquestionable. To have been so successful, for so many years, against
    such unbeatably bad odds -- that's something worth a word or two of unstinted
    praise."
  created: '2006-08-18 23:42:45'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "John has made an excellent case. We started by wrongly contrasting corporation
    and independent, when what is probably the most interesting model for high quality
    type today is something in between, the small cooperative group. Font Bureau has
    long been the progenitor for that, but it is very interesting to consider also
    Ascender. When it started it was two designers (or technicians or whatever you
    want to call them) -- Steve Matteson and Tom Rickner -- and two businessmen to
    mind the store, Ira Marachnik and Bill Davis. It must be abundantly clear that
    the designers find it worthwhile to be in such an arrangement.\r\n\r\nOne footnote:
    Hoefler had assistants working for him as early as 1994. When I visited his studio
    then, there was already an anonymous drone, hard at work on proliferating the
    Didot, if I recall correctly. Jonathan was really nice to me and said, 'do you
    realize you are already one of the world's ten best designers?' Of course it wasn't
    true, and we haven't spoken since, a couple of years later, Jonathan had a fit
    with me for releasing a Didot under the name Didot (he said he had 'impeccably
    trademarked the name Didot'), but it was a generous gesture to make to a timid
    beginner and I have always been grateful for his encouragement.\r\n\r\nBut I digress.
    To John's last few questions:\r\n\r\n'How many big type companies have gone bankrupt
    and disappeared in the past thirty years? How many times have the surviving ones
    been in receivership or have changed hands? How often have they been bought or
    sold by parent companies with no interest in or knowldge of type and typography?
    Do you really think this is a sensible, viable model conducive to the development
    and maintenance of high standards of design and manufacture?'\r\n\r\nI don't have
    any ready answers. Except to say, ultimately, printers probably need the same
    basic library of 700 or so fonts they have always needed, and ultimately, the
    owners of those fonts may make some money selling them again, if there ever is
    any real progress in type technology and the old data finally obsolesces. And
    someone has to own the existing intellectual property and stay in business doing
    that. That the property is actually worth anything, still, touches significantly
    on William's point about drawing office expertise. \r\n\r\nSo: what is the point
    of Mono/Lino, other than to prove that adept and creative businessmen can create
    miracles? I suspect there are many, but as designers, we tend not to think about
    that end of the business. Designers are never interested in much beyond their
    fee, n'est-ce-pas? Or their wages. I am hoping to write an article on the merger
    for MD, and am hoping that Bruno will consent to an interview next week, and I
    expect I will learn something from that. In the meantime, John, I suspect that
    if you chose to argue against your point, you could probably come up with some
    interesting insights. I wonder if it's possible to do a sort of Keynesian analysis
    of the type industry? "
  created: '2006-08-19 00:22:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>In the meantime, John, I suspect that if you chose to argue against your
    point, you could probably come up with some interesting insights.</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps,
    and I think your point about the remarkable achievement of keeping Monotype and
    Linotype alive is well made. At the same time, if you were to argue against your
    own point, you could start by simply repeating most of what you wrote in the Segoe
    thread: something that has been forgotten in the rosy glow of the press release.
    I wonder how Adrian Frutiger and Hermann Zapf feel about the Monotype purchase
    of Linotype?\r\n\r\n\r\n[ Regarding fitting, I don't think I'm being defensive,
    even though there is a significant difference between telling Sumner in a private
    conversation that you find something a little odd in the spacing of his lowercase
    o and announcing in a public forum that you think I don't 'understand typeface
    fitting, and probably never will'. I fit and kern my types carefully and systematically,
    and I'd be happy to discuss my approach, although its the sort of thing that is
    easier to talk about when one is sitting next to someone looking at a FontLab
    metrics window. There are some discussions on Typophile on the subject to which
    I have contributed some thoughts, including an interesting and illustrated debate
    with David Berlow about the correct way to space italics.\r\n\r\nI think a legitimate
    complaint can be made, by people who prefer a looser fit, that my fitting tends
    to be on the tight side. But optimum spacing is size-specific, and so we have
    this problem in one-size-fits-all scaleable type: how tight or loose should the
    default spacing be? The really good typesetters I know track almost every type
    they work with, hardly ever accepting the in-built spacing. In the absence of
    finely tuned optical sizes, I think ultimate spacing has to be performed by the
    typesetter, and will often make or break a piece of work. That said, I'm trying
    to space my current types a touch more loosely. But my approach to obtaining <em>consistency</em>
    in spacing remains the same. ]"
  created: '2006-08-19 07:41:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John: \"we have this problem in one-size-fits-all scaleable type\"\r\nWe
    who? \r\n\r\nWe all have this problem that some have made one-size-fits-all the
    default, and claimed it is more than one-size-fits-all. I, and some others have
    managed to sell the ideas that one-size-fits-some, and one-size-fits-one, are
    good too, (better usually) and that one-size-fits-all \"needs some work on the
    software side\", starting with a proper report from all devices of the resolution,
    ending with a variety of contour transformations and filtering techniques \u2014
    to \"truly 'begin' to solve\", if required, one-size-fits-all.\r\n\r\nBut the
    good news is, your spacing is fine. One-size-fits-all should work at the \"master
    size\", without the composer's intervention, and with predictable intervention
    otherwise, to taste over a range dependant on the design, (and in the presence
    of proportionally tracked kerning) One-size-fits-some \"display range\", and one-size-fits-some
    \"text range\" are not as hard to use, and one-size-fits-something \"special\"
    is the easiest, unless you don't use it \"there\". The basic fault with the master
    sizing of the one-size-fits-all design is, if there isn't one, it leads to a total
    disconnect between the master and optical size (monster-sizing for the lowest
    common denominator, e.g.). \r\n\r\nThen, some hell breaks loose. I learned this
    at Merg, so, sorry, but it's vaguely not off the topic. ;)"
  created: '2006-08-19 13:45:43'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "John, you're in fine form. You have correctly identified why it is not possible
    to have useful typographic discussion on these blogs and the reason of course
    is that they are really public. I think the biggest difference between you and
    me is that you have always treated them as very public affairs, and I have always
    treated them as if they were entirely private, which is quite incorrect. I've
    had the transient pleasure of a bit of sport, but essentially these are tools
    for promoting business interests and probably should be respected as such.\r\n\r\nTo
    be perfectly fair about you and spacing, I have based too much of my opinion on
    two facts observed during those very painful but nonetheless productive threads
    that arose when ClearType was announced. The first was that you had provided a
    bad initial impression of all of the CT fonts by setting the one-line large examples
    in the book about them with InDesign Optical Kerning. This made me finally use
    this feature and identify some of its problems which I knew must exist but had
    never actually tested, and to you belongs the credit of subsequently discovering
    that this horrible device changes the spacing between all letter combinations
    except O and O. I think the other thing that was open to criticism was the general
    tightness of the spacing of your font, which was probably not ideal for small
    screen display sizes. From this it would be fair to deduce that your judgment
    is not always perfect, especially under pressure (and whose is?) but it isn't
    fair to go on to say that you know nothing about spacing, because there is also
    evidence on the other side that you do have a rational system and that you do
    carefully implement it, and the truth is that I have not looked at your recent
    work in sufficient depth to offer an opinion beyond the comparatively little I
    saw in 2004 or whenever it was. (We'll leave aside the issue of the non-overshooting
    C in Constantia which was revealed online ... due no doubt to momentary pressure,
    but also illustrating neatly the kinds of things that can go wrong in type even
    when every care is taken, also that every designer needs a gnome to look over
    his shoulder. It is the kind of mistake that is easy enough to make in a typeface
    of just 100 glyphs; it is that much easier to make when the font comprises a thousand
    or more.) \r\n\r\nYour point about good typesetters tracking type according to
    size is also well-taken. Isn't it interesting how many of them still use PageMaker,
    still the only program to facilitate this process automatically according to the
    type size chosen? \r\n\r\nIf I may offer a small criticism, it is that while it
    is productive to work in a FontLab (or Fontographer) metrics window, the acid
    test is always print or whatever else the final application of type may be, and
    I think designers need to be encouraged not to rely on metrics windows too much.
    \r\n\r\nAs to your question about what Zapf thinks about the merger, I understand
    that he is enthusiastic for a number of reasons. He was extremely annoyed, however,
    by some of the things I said in my Sumner Stone article, which just goes to show
    that you can't please everyone, not that I tried."
  created: '2006-08-19 15:09:15'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "David could you please amplify \r\n\r\n'The basic fault with the master sizing
    of the one-size-fits-all design is, if there isn\u2019t one, it leads to a total
    disconnect between the master and optical size (monster-sizing for the lowest
    common denominator, e.g.).\r\n\r\nThen, some hell breaks loose. I learned this
    at Merg ....'"
  created: '2006-08-19 17:01:02'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Ira Marachnik\r\n\r\nClose - Ira Mirochnick \r\n\r\nhttp://www.ascendercorp.com/aboutascender.html
    \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2006-08-19 17:34:25'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>If I may offer a small criticism, it is that while it is productive
    to work in a FontLab (or Fontographer) metrics window, the acid test is always
    print or whatever else the final application of type may be</cite>\r\n\r\nAgreed.
    I even wonder if a metrics window is the right tool for kerning. \r\n\r\n[What
    was this thread about? Monotype-Linotype? Font QA? Kerning?]\r\n\r\n:)"
  created: '2006-08-19 18:17:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Re. optical sizes: David, I'm in total agreement.\r\n\r\nRe. Constantia:
    Bill, just to clarify, the Constantia C does actually have an overshoot, the bug
    was in the hinting (the bottom of the C was linked to the wrong CVT value, I believe).\r\n\r\nRe.
    Bill: <em>The first was that you had provided a bad initial impression of all
    of the CT fonts by setting the one-line large examples in the book about them
    with InDesign Optical Kerning.</em> Ah, yes. You see, I consider character set
    showings to be, inverting Mr Gill, pictures of letters, not type. I track them
    out a bit, so that people can easily examine the individual shapes, and I apply
    the optical kerning feature because such showings often involve combinations of
    letters that do not occur in text and which may not be accounted for in the kerning
    data in the font. The purpose of these showings is to give some idea of what is
    in the font and what the letterforms look like. To judge fitting, you need to
    look at type -- at text -- not at pictures of letters.\r\n\r\nRe. Karsten: <em>Agreed.
    I even wonder if a metrics window is the right tool for kerning.</em>  Somewhere
    in the Typophile archives is my specification for a kerning environment, which
    is a large room with a wide, curved cinema screen on which one pixel = one em
    unit, and a control console with dials to adjust interglyph spacing. :)\r\n\r\nSeriously,
    though, I think the FontLab metrics window in FLS5 is a pretty good kerning environment.
    There is always going to be a disconnection between the tools for specifying spacing
    in digital fonts and the application of spacing at the target size and target
    medium, and that disconnection requires a human imagination to bridge it. Looking
    at kerning strings on screen, at the size at which it is practical to work with
    them optically -- i.e. large enough that pixel rounding errors do not obscure
    the results <em>too</em> much (they will always obscure the results to some degree,
    hence the desire for an evironment large enought for one pixel to equal one em
    unit) -- it is necessary to consistently imagine the desired spacing of the target
    size(s). The tendency, looking at glyphs at such large sizes, is to tighten the
    spacing too much, so of course the feedback from print tests at target sizes is
    essential.\r\n\r\nA typesetter I know who did a lot of manual kerning in headlines
    in his long career would always print out the pseudo-word 'millioon' in the intended
    size and spacing, and tape it to the top of his screen while working on kerning,
    as a visual reference. This was the inspiration for the 'second preview' option
    in FontLab, which I asked Yuri add: a constant field below the current spacing/kerning
    preview in which one can put e.g. 'millioon' as a reference."
  created: '2006-08-19 19:34:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>PageMaker, still the only program to facilitate this process automatically
    according to the type size chosen?</em>\r\n\r\nQuark had it as a utility since
    way back (right next to the kerning table edit), may still do in v.7. I used both
    a lot when I was an art director.\r\n\r\n<em>but essentially these [online forums]
    are tools for promoting business interests</em>\r\n\r\nMaybe, but I have also
    gotten a lot of mental stimulation from Typophile, as well as practical information.
    I even repurpose posts I make, for writing in other media.\r\n\r\n<em>What was
    this thread about?</em>\r\n\r\nApparently, the relative merits of different business
    models for font development. "
  created: '2006-08-19 19:50:05'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>When I visited his studio then, there was already an anonymous drone,
    hard at work on proliferating the Didot</em>\r\n\r\ni think this is the why most
    here don't like large corporations. nobody wants to be a drone, especially not
    an anonymous one."
  created: '2006-08-19 21:46:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> nobody wants to be a drone, especially not an anonymous one.\r\n\r\nHow
    about being an \"apprentice\" or a \"printer's devil\"? "
  created: '2006-08-19 23:52:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"David could you please amplify\"\r\nYou mean all caps? Or do I need typophile
    radio? WTTF?"
  created: '2006-08-20 13:06:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>anonymous drone</em>\r\n\r\nActually, H&FJ profile employees on their
    web site.\r\nAnd when such as Joshua Darden or Jesse Ragan move out and set up
    shop on their own, their involvement with particular typefaces becomes apparent.
    \r\n\r\nAt the tour of the Printing Museum at TypeCon last week, we saw that each
    of the tens of thousands of Linotype character drawings has a signature of who
    drew it. Research will, I believe, give credit to some of those people as designers
    of those Linotype faces, rather than, as stands, the senior figures who art directed.
    More Lardent, less Morison.\r\n\r\nAnyway, all workers are drones, e.g. Michelangelo
    doing the Sistine Ceiling, or Bach The Art of the Fugue."
  created: '2006-08-20 17:35:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Drone implies someone who works in a directed way such that he or she is not
    required or encouraged to make decisions. Hence the term, which refers to drones
    in an insect colony. Not all work is drone work.
  created: '2006-08-20 21:34:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Not all work is drone work.</em>\r\n\r\nIf it's not dronish, it ain't
    work.\r\nWhether the tedium is self-directed or by others.\r\nBut some of it can
    be quite pleasant, with the right soundtrack.\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-21 08:31:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Kern that funky music for me Nick boy\" :-)\r\n\r\nI may not be on the
    right track for Nick though.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-21 12:44:43'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Nick \"each of the tens of thousands of Linotype [letter]drawings has a signature
    of who drew it. Research will, I believe, give credit to some of those people
    as designers of those Linotype faces,\"\r\n\r\nThat's a leap Nick, sorry. You
    won't find the names of Lardent's Lino counterparts in those signatures. They
    represent the approval of -that letter- and every graphite molecule thereon, and
    not who designed the typeface, or the font(s) about to be represented in type
    from those drawings.\r\n\r\nSo, though it might be fun! the only thing you can
    say for almost certain, is that the signee drew the curves for certain approved
    the letter, and was in volved in the execution of the design."
  created: '2006-08-21 14:47:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Well, at the field trip talk, I'm afraid I didn't study the signature boxes
    in the bottom right corner of those drawings (looking at the glyphs instead),
    but I recall there were several, and I got the impression from at least one speaker
    that the draftsman had to sign off on each drawing -- with the example of one
    guy who spent four years on a typeface family doing thousands of drawings. Surely
    as part of Griffiths' meticulousness, he would have wanted to have consistency
    provided by using the same draftsman for a typeface, so that mean their names
    were recorded on the drawings? But you're saying the signatures represent the
    \"art director\" rather than the draftsman?\r\n\r\nFor the revivals that were
    made from photos of printed type, projected on the wall and \"traced\", I presume
    that those drawings would be an interim stage, over which the final \"thin\" (tracing)
    paper drawings were made."
  created: '2006-08-21 17:42:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"you\u2019re saying the signatures represent the \u201Cart director\u201D
    rather than the draftsman?\"\r\n\r\nWhat? I said \"They [the signatures] represent
    the approval of -that letter- [...] and not who designed the typeface\"\r\n\r\n\"[Griffith]
    would have wanted to have consistency provided by using the same draftsman for
    a typeface\". \r\n\r\nActually, when he was boss, the letterdrawing process was
    an assembly line, so it did not matter who signed. Consistency was assured by
    a highly disciplined approach at the top that was projected all the way down to
    the straight-line drafters (i.e. the traineees who only drew straight lines and
    only exactly where they were told to). \r\n"
  created: '2006-08-22 12:00:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">For the revivals that were made from photos of printed type, projected on
    the wall and \u201Ctraced\u201D, I presume that those drawings would be an interim
    stage, over which the final \u201Cthin\u201D (tracing) paper drawings were made.\r\n\r\nThe
    drawings I looked at all had a signature of a single person who drew them at the
    bottom right, and a signature of the boss who signed off that they were satisfactory.
    \r\n\r\nFor the Caslon Old Face (1923) I looked at, I'm pretty sure the projectoscope
    was used to project the faces of metal types, not printed samples. Also there
    was latitude for the person drawing the type in following the tracing of the projectoscope
    tracing, as there were written instructions to \"follow the style of the type.\"
    The same person--Dorothy Rickert--I think did all the 12 pt and many of the smaller
    sizes. (The boss was a 'T.W.') Some of the larger sizes were done by others. But
    this project was an immense labor as each point size was draw differently--i.e.
    not 3 or 4 masters, and adjustments of others through the pantographic punch cutter.
    The projectoscope was also used to check the final punch against the original
    drawing, as quality control.  "
  created: '2006-08-22 12:50:03'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Research will, I believe, give credit to some of those people as designers
    of those Linotype faces, rather than, as stands, the senior figures who art directed.
    More Lardent, less Morison.\r\n\r\nIt is not good to assume that the lowly drawing
    office employee had any talent whatever, other than being able to draw very simple
    things accurately. David Saunders, who ran the Monotype Drawing Office for many
    years, told me that he would often hire applicants with no previous experience
    whatever. He would give them a circle to draw. If they could correct their drawing
    reasonably well, they'd have the job. This does not, of course, resolve certain
    mysteries, like who is really responsible for Bembo? Or, for that matter Times.
    But Lardent had nothing to do with it, so it seems. Either you believe the Giampa
    fantasy, or you look at Tracy's careful study of Plantin and Times, which completely
    explodes the myth of Lardent's involvement. I did not agree with Walter Tracy's
    later, positive assessment of the Giampa claim, and he was so frail at the time
    . . . though I must say he gave me some nice tips on Pilgrim.\r\n\r\n>Anyway,
    all workers are drones, e.g. Michelangelo doing the Sistine Ceiling, or Bach The
    Art of the Fugue.\r\n\r\nSo drone = Bach = Michelangelo = Shinn? \r\n\r\nIn any
    case Papa Berlow is absolutely correct in stating that there were a lot of drawing
    office people who, for example, only drew straight lines and only drew them where
    they were told. On the other hand, there were, indeed, some more sophisticated
    drawing people, i.e. there was a spectrum. But it is nearly impossible at this
    point to make a case for any of them having any substantive input into the aesthetics
    of any of these typeface designs. Furthermore, heck, you have a drawing, and the
    drawing is great, and you make the punches. What if the testing then shows all
    kinds of defects in letters x y and z? Who is responsible for fixing them? Where
    does that show up? Yak yak. Let's face it, the interesting stuff at Lino is being
    done by Dwiggins, Griffith, Jones, Burke, etc. . . . not that anonymous drone.
    It is a little more difficult to work things out at Mono, given Morison's complex
    interactions there and his own interest in promulgating a picture that would do
    him the most good.\r\n\r\nAnd Nick, in 1994, Hoefler's anonymous drones were not
    getting any credit for the work they did. I never saw HTF Didot being co-attributed
    to anyone else, did you?\r\n\r\nBTW, Lardent's 'Times' was digitized by Matthew
    Carter and used to set at least one menu I have. \r\n\r\nYou know, if you look
    at a Talley of Type, it is above all about how Morison and his successors were
    always learning how to make type, it was always experimental, they were always
    making mistakes, there was always something new to learn. For all his self-serving
    spin, Morison is so very modest next to the people nowadays who claim they know
    all about type. There doesn't seem to be any type that Morison et al. write about
    where they don't say, 'this is what we did wrong.'\r\n\r\nSpeaking of rather interesting
    design errors that have proliferated into digital, can anyone tell me what is
    the obvious, unGillish error in the upper case italic of Joanna that needs to
    be fixed? "
  created: '2006-08-22 17:13:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"it is above all about how Morison and his successors were always learning
    how to make type, it was always experimental, they were always making mistakes,
    there was always something new to learn. For all his self-serving spin, Morison
    is so very modest next to the people nowadays who claim they know all about type.
    There doesn\u2019t seem to be any type that Morison et al. write about where they
    don\u2019t say, \u2018this is what we did wrong.\u2019\"\r\n\r\nPeople today designing
    type are no different; they make mistakes, are experimental, there is always more
    to learn for them. I have never heard a soul say that they \"Know it All\" and
    would be curious how you got that impression?\r\n\r\nThe type design community
    seems to be a very giving group who help eachother and cheer eachother on. I have
    not spoken to a soul who has not been willing to help me.  I just don't see the
    kind of arrogance here that is prevalent in the performing arts.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-22 18:11:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Bach = Michelangelo = Shinn</em>\r\n\r\nWell, the Art of the Fugue is
    the kind of generative stuff that Eno delegates to a computer, but JSB crunched
    his own minims. And Michaelangelo, he did all the toes and little willies on everybody
    on the Sistine ceiling himself. Me, I personally hand-kern all the fonts in my
    mom and pop shop.\r\n\r\nDesign attribution in collaborative production environments
    is a bit of a football. You've got your auteur theorists vs your socialists, trying
    to decide who deserves most props. The brutes hired to render the sublime ideas
    of the great men don't get much credit, which makes it a little easier for the
    boss of the monopoly to be self-effacing. \r\n\r\nBut I think there are enough
    people who began in production work who later set out on their own and achieved
    success, to discredit the notion that their contributions as drafstmen were rote.
    Drawing is drawing so worthy of reverence, drafting is drafting, the fundamental
    skill of type post Benton punch-cutter, and when doing a revival in particular
    it's just as important in the long run (if not more so) than concept and art direction.
    Face it Bill, it's the drawing of Monotype Bembo that makes it sublime. That's
    a combination of freehand and french curve, not just drawing a circle, although
    even that has its merit, as in the old Giotto saw. \r\n\r\n<em>I never saw HTF
    Didot being co-attributed to anyone else, did you?</em>\r\n\r\nNot specifically.
    I was pointing out that H&FJ profile their staff on their web site, which is an
    admirable practice. In general, people who are not the \"designer\" of a typeface
    are not credited by the publisher. However, when an employee first sets up their
    business (eg Darden, Ragan), they may list their involvement in particular typefaces,
    to establish credentials. So in the multi-foundry internet era, that information
    is more readily available than in the heyday of Linotype."
  created: '2006-08-22 18:25:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>David Saunders, who ran the Monotype Drawing Office for many years, told
    me that he would often hire applicants with no previous experience whatever. He
    would give them a circle to draw. If they could correct their drawing reasonably
    well, they\u2019d have the job.</em>\r\n\r\nThe more sophisticated Linotype equivalent
    was the infamous S test, in which prospective drawing office staff would be required
    to copy a drawing of a letter S. Matthew Carter told me of a particularly devious
    variant, in which the original S would be in a rectangle, and the objective was
    to draw an extrapolated S in a rectangle of different proportions.\r\n\r\nWhen
    I was helping Gerry Leonidas and Fiona Ross sort and pack the Linotype non-Latin
    archives for shipment to Reading, we came across a file of S test results from
    Fiona's department at Linotype Paul in the 1980s. She could still pick out who
    had drawn each one."
  created: '2006-08-22 22:46:27'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Face it Bill, it\u2019s the drawing of Monotype Bembo that makes it sublime.\r\n\r\nI
    wonder. First of all, nobody really knows who is responsible for Bembo, and I
    have posited that one of the drawing office ladies may have had some hand in it,
    and am conducting some research into this very tenuous hypothesis, if it can even
    be called such. But no, the drawing is not what makes it great. There have been
    dozens of marvellous drawings of Bembo in modern times, in photo and digital.
    And none of them can hold a candle to the metal Bembo. What is the secret of metal
    Bembo? It's in the punches, not the drawings, that's for sure. A lot of very,
    very, very talented people have worked on post-metal Bembo, and they have all
    failed. As for the rest, it is difficult to argue with someone who does not distinguish
    between art on the highest level and mere craft. \r\n\r\nOne thing I find so funny
    about all these discussions of master drawings is the assumption that the master
    drawing came fresh from the Master's hand and that was that. Of course that is
    not the case. It was tested and corrected dozens, hundreds, thousands of times
    until the person actually responsible for the type _in print_ (and therefore responsible
    for a huge capital investment) was satisfied. \r\n\r\nBack to Bembo, off topic
    as it is, I think it's wrong to say that what makes it work is even in the punches.
    It's the way it comes out on the printed page when everything is done right. To
    get anywhere close to duplicating that at text sizes today would require the very
    reverse of 'good' drawing, because good drawing is not the same thing as fidelity
    to the necessarily flawed letterpress impression. It also requires individual
    optical sizes of course, particularly below 12 points where the variations are
    large. The kind of 'drawing' that is necessary to get this kind of effect has
    very little to do with the kind of drawing necessary for display type. Until you
    stop thinking about curves and start thinking about bits of typographic density,
    you can't really understand text type - - in my view, which admittedly is absolutely
    personal and which I don't seek to impose on anyone else. I am hoping Lino will
    continue to go with my approach on Pilgrim, but who knows? There are not many
    digital types that employ it -- offhand I can only think of Slimbach's Jenson
    and Carter's Monticello.\r\n\r\n>The type design community seems to be a very
    giving group who help each other and cheer each other on.\r\n\r\nIf you know anyone,
    Chris, who will spend a hundred or so hours per weight helping me really come
    to grips with a typeface, please tell me their names. People in the type community
    are very nice and will often spend a few minutes or even let us say half an hour
    looking over something one has done and give some help.\r\n\r\nBut to get the
    kind of help that really is needed, there has to be a common economic interest
    in the success of the work. And that requires an organization of at least Font
    Bureau size, to get back to the topic. The only times I have ever had the kind
    of attention I seek, working in painstaking detail over countless hours, was in
    1993-4 with Jeff Level and 1997-8 with Robert Slimbach. Relationships like that
    aren't easy to find, and I did not succeed in keeping either of them going though
    I tried for all I was worth.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of Font Bureau, David, I still don't
    understand what you said:\r\n\r\n\"The basic fault with the master sizing of the
    one-size-fits-all design is, if there isn\u2019t one,\"\r\n\r\none what? if I
    knew that, then perhaps I would understand\r\n\r\n\"it leads to a total disconnect
    between the master and optical size (monster-sizing for the lowest common denominator,
    e.g.).\"\r\n\r\nand then I would like to know more about what was observed in
    this respect at Mergenthaler.\r\n\r\nsorry to be so dense! "
  created: '2006-08-23 21:52:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I have posited that one of the drawing office ladies may have had some
    hand in it,</em>\r\n\r\nWait a minute, I thought I was the one suggesting that
    the drafstmen might get more credit for design?\r\n\r\nRobin Kinross, in Modern
    Typoraphy, attributes much of Imprint's success to the drawing office.\r\n\r\n<em>Someone
    who does not distinguish between art on the highest level and mere craft</em>\r\n\r\nMoi?
    I don't think reviving an old typeface is art. (And certainly not the highest
    level of design.) That's why I would give credit to the drawing office, not the
    overseers, in such circumstances.\r\n\r\n<em>One thing I find so funny about all
    these discussions of master drawings is the assumption that the master drawing
    came fresh from the Master\u2019s hand and that was that.</em>\r\n\r\nI find it
    funny that you assume other people made that assumption. Most people are thinking
    master as in Multiple Master. Or would Multiple Master be a supergroup, like Twombly
    and Slimbach tag-teaming on Myriad?\r\n\r\n<em>The kind of \u2018drawing\u2019
    that is necessary to get this kind of effect has very little to do with the kind
    of drawing necessary for display type.</em>\r\n\r\nNot so. It's true that as you
    say, design drawing has to be appropriate to the task for which it is intended--whether
    that is text or display. But it also true that irrespective of design, a good
    type drawing is a thing of beauty in its own right, with a quality of line that
    has vigour, grace, balance, proportion. This attention to quality is part of the
    synergy.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-23 23:03:05'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Wait a minute, I thought I was the one suggesting that the drafstmen might
    get more credit for design?\r\n\r\nYou have, without any basis in known historical
    fact, suggested that simple technical draughtsmen should get more credit for designs,
    not realizing that most of them knew virtually nothing about type -- and didn't
    care. The decisive insight for me on this issue was when Saunders told me that
    the drawing office girls never saw the finished type. \r\n\r\nI have, with extremely
    little basis in known historical fact, begun to explore whether in the case of
    one particular typeface, where the history is a little foggy, it might be possible
    that one particular drawing office lady (there is only one possible candidate)
    might have had a hand in Bembo. This guess of mine is admittedly naive and is
    unlikely to yield any results. \r\n\r\nIt is significant that in the golden era
    of typographical research, there was never any suggestion of this.  Just as there
    was not, in most cases, any reason to suppose that the punchcutter, in the pre-Pantographic,
    pre-Master Drawing era, had any substantive input into the process (i.e., except
    in the rare cases when the punchcutter was not working under someone else's direction).
    Does anyone seriously suppose that R\xE4disch deserved design credit for van Krimpen's
    typefaces? (A question a little worth asking but unlikely to yield anything of
    interest.) Or, to give another example, take the punchcutter Vafflard, who I had
    always felt certain was the 'auteur' of his typefaces. But Unger has seriously
    demolished this cherished belief of mine in his essay a few years ago on Vafflard.
    He has even gone so far as make a most persuasive case that Vafflard's types are
    merely largely faithful recuttings of Garamond's. I could, and would, argue these
    points, but my position, after Unger's careful research, is very weak.\r\n\r\n'I
    find it funny that you assume other people made that assumption. Most people are
    thinking master as in Multiple Master. Or would Multiple Master be a supergroup,
    like Twombly and Slimbach tag-teaming on Myriad?'\r\n\r\nNick, the drawings for
    metal typefaces are always referred to as master drawings. Masters for the pantograph,
    masters for manufacturing, etc. etc. This is the conventional vocabulary. Ever
    since there have been drawings for typefaces, they have been referred to as Master
    Drawings. I realize it's a little confusing, with the additional burden of the
    concept of the Multiple Master and its new vocabulary.\r\n\r\n'Not so. It\u2019s
    true that as you say, design drawing has to be appropriate to the task for which
    it is intended\u2014whether that is text or display. But it also true that irrespective
    of design, a good type drawing is a thing of beauty in its own right, with a quality
    of line that has vigour, grace, balance, proportion. This attention to quality
    is part of the synergy.'\r\n\r\nLovely. Vigor, grace, balance, proportion, synergy.
    Beautiful words. Like a distillation of one of Dwiggins's ads. And it misses the
    essential industrial point. What we need in text type is first and foremost an
    industrial product that maximally enables the customer to perform the act of reading
    on some final manufactured object such as a book or a screen.\r\n\r\nNow let's
    put it all into practical terms: if we know what 'quality of line' is, and aren't
    just using fancy words (to impress an imaginary public), we ought to be able to
    tell which is the erroneous character in the caps of Joanna Italic. Have you had
    a go?"
  created: '2006-08-24 10:19:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>You have, without any basis in known historical fact, suggested that
    simple technical draughtsmen should get more credit for designs,</em>\r\n\r\nBill,
    the idea of historical fact, expecially with regards to the notion of giving credit,
    is dubious. Women's contributions, for instance, are being written into a lot
    of histories where they didn't use to figure as known facts. \r\n\r\n<em>Masters
    for the pantograph, masters for manufacturing, etc. etc. This is the conventional
    vocabulary.</em>\r\n\r\nDuh. I was cracking back at your \"fresh from the Master\u2019s
    hand\" comment. Perhaps I should use more emoticons to telegraph the subtlty of
    my wit, for those of a literal disposition?\r\n\r\n<em>And it misses the essential
    industrial point.</em>\r\n\r\nYou're not reading what I'm saying, even when dutifully
    copying and pasting it for refutal. Let me try again. There are two aspects of
    design drawing. One is the drafting aspect, which \"has to be appropriate to the
    task for which it is intended, and I'm obviously in agreement with you on this.
    The other is the pure artistry of drawing (which you dismiss as a cissy non-essential).
    This can be appreciated in its own right, as artists' sketches for paintings are.
    I believe that, once the drafting has been taken care of, a drawing that also
    looks nice has some benefit, hence my use of the term \"synergy\".\r\n\r\n<em>...we
    ought to be able to tell which is the erroneous character in the caps of Joanna
    Italic. Have you had a go?</em>\r\n\r\nWe ought to know what \"synergy\" means.
    Can anyone tell me why it's relevant to this discussion? Will you have a go Bill?"
  created: '2006-08-24 17:44:17'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Come on, Nick, I'm still waiting for you or anyone to tell me which is the
    inauthentic character in the Joanna italic caps. What makes it so interesting
    is that the error was made by a very skilled draughtsman who only realized the
    mistake years later. What's interesting about that is that it shows how very difficult
    it is for someone else to get inside a designer's head. Only Eric Gill knew, at
    once, how he was going to draw a given character. The draughtsman/drone is quite
    unlikely to be able to understand why a line is here rather than there or a curve
    goes this way instead of that way. A quite separate issue is that Gill's drawings
    were not capable of being made into literal type (his proposed g in Aries is the
    most spectacular example I can think of). Considerable interpretation was needed
    by the punchcutter or 'art director' as the case may be. All of that aside the
    wrong character in Joanna really does stick out once your attention has been drawn
    to it. \r\n\r\nYour proposal that the drawing of a text character should have
    aesthetic value in and of itself I still find unconvincing. Let us say that you
    are trying to reproduce Bodoni's types as precisely as possible, as Sumner Stone
    was trying to do in the ITC Bodoni project. What you will notice, in examining
    a character as simple as the o, is that to reproduce in digital what Bodoni did
    in metal, you must produce a drawing that mimics the myriad little o within o
    curves that are characteristic of the tools Bodoni used and the way he used them.
    The resultant drawing of this character, with its complex and painstakingly comprehended
    irrationalities, is not something that anyone with skill in drawing would naturally
    draw, and is never likely to be of any independent aesthetic interest. But it
    makes a good typeface. It is merely a means to an end. I have no objection whatever
    if it so happens that the drawing has aesthetic value. But that can never be the
    goal. For this reason, Stone insisted that the executants on the Bodoni project
    could proof characters only at the sizes they were intended to be used at. They
    weren't used to this, and it was a struggle to get them to do it. \r\n\r\nYou
    get a completely different perspective on what type means when you stop looking
    at the character on the screen or on the drawing board, and stop trying to make
    it more beautiful, but instead, look at the type, tiny, on the page, and try to
    figure out where, and why, it needs a smidgin more here, and a smidgin less there.
    Now you go back to the drawing, and you try to do what it takes to get that smidgin
    corrected. Your drawing is now no longer a drawing independently conceived. It
    is merely a tool, merely a vehicle, part of a process that has one goal uppermost:
    to produce the printed character on the page (or screen or whatever), just as
    it is intended to be used.\r\n\r\nI don't expect a display typeface designer ever
    to be able to understand this process intuitively. Text people are text people;
    display people are display people; very seldom do the twain happily meet, and
    there is no reason why they should. One cannot be all things."
  created: '2006-08-24 21:50:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">which is the inauthentic character in the Joanna italic caps.\r\n\r\nOk,
    I'll play. I see these candidates: The A leans maybe too far. The bottom hook
    on the C perhaps sticks out too far. The bowl of the P is too small. The U has
    equal weight arms, but maybe that's deliberate. The waist on the Y is a bit too
    high. Given the general narrowness, I would guess the C is the best candidate. "
  created: '2006-08-24 23:14:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The resultant drawing of this character, with its complex and painstakingly
    comprehended irrationalities, is not something that anyone with skill in drawing
    would naturally draw, and is never likely to be of any independent aesthetic interest.
    But it makes a good typeface</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps. I certainly agree with proofing
    at the intended size. But I don't believe that ITC Bodoni 12, for instance, is
    well drawn, or that it works as well as it could if it had been taken a step further.
    There is a final stage missing, which is the sytematic design rationalization,
    the one-medium-to-another transformation \"algorithm\" if you will, that produces
    a nice text impression, but also has its own rationale and makes a drawing attractive
    in its own right, rather than an approximation. Dwiggins mentioned the \"M\" principle
    (for marionette), meaning just enough detail to pull off the effect, but I'm sure
    he also meant that it would be expressed in a succint vocabulary of elegant shapes.\r\n\r\n<em>Your
    drawing is now no longer a drawing independently conceived. </em>\r\n\r\nYeah
    yeah yeah I heard ya the first time and agreed. Haven't most type designers been
    working like that for the last 15 years? \r\n\r\n<em>I don\u2019t expect a display
    typeface designer ever to be able to understand this process intuitively.</em>\r\n\r\nBill,
    I don't agree with your pigeon-holes of text and display designers, bosses and
    drones. "
  created: '2006-08-24 23:26:57'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>Does anyone seriously suppose that R\xE4disch deserved design credit
    for van Krimpen\u2019s typefaces?</cite>\r\n\r\nYeah, I do. R\xE4disch's skills
    made the execution of Van Krimpen's ideas possible. Don't forget that the distinction
    between designer and craftsman is a quite modern one (late nineteenth century).
    I remember reading somewhere that Van Krimpen gave credit to R for his abilities
    and went sofar as to state that he took into account these abilities when designing
    typefaces."
  created: '2006-08-24 23:37:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">R\xE4disch\u2019s skills\r\n\r\nLet me second that. If you look at the drawings
    and the dramatic optical scaling that R\xE4disch did, you can see that they are
    an important part of the design process. Certainly there is more originality in
    Van Krimpen, but R\xE4disch made an important contribution. A comparison is in
    'Printers Type in the Twentieth Century'. I have also seen specimen or display
    books from van Krimpen with Romulus, and Dreyfus's book. I assume these, or at
    least van Krimpen's are in foundry type. (The monotype was also based on R\xE4disch's
    foundry type.) They are among the most beautiful books I have ever laid eyes on.
    \ \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-25 00:55:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I remember reading somewhere that Van Krimpen gave credit to R for his
    abilities and went sofar as to state that he took into account these abilities
    when designing typefaces.</em>\r\n\r\nHermann Zapf made the observation that when
    Rosenberger was cutting punches for his types by hand, it wasn't necessary to
    produce highly finished drawings, because he could rely on Rosenberger to correctly
    interpret the designs. This is the nature of collaboration between artists and
    craftsmen, something one may see in other fields too, whether in fine or applied
    arts. The creative genius is rightly associated with the artist, i.e. with the
    originator of the idea, of the particular combination of forms, their associations
    and their application. The artist is usually a master in at least one medium --
    Zapf of course is both a first class calligrapher and a fine draughtsman --, and
    the craftsman's job is to translate into a different medium, in Rosenberger's
    case steel. The key to this collaboration is that the media are all media of the
    human hand and the hand tool: a process of translation from hand drawn letters
    to hand cut letters.\r\n\r\nThe question of who gets credit for 'design' in such
    a collaboration depends on whether you identify the design process with the creative
    genius of invention or with the complete process of defining the finished form.
    Since the nature of this kind of collaboration precedes and exists parallel to
    industrial models of design and manufacture, the application of the term design
    is in some ways inappropriate or, at least, a difficult fit."
  created: '2006-08-25 04:00:37'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'My very great admiration goes to William for being the only one with the
    courage to go out on this frightening limb. However, all of his first guesses
    are wrong. There is nothing easy about this, and I am sure I could not have solved
    the riddle unaided. The only reward I can offer is a slight hint. Careful comparison
    with the Perpetua italic caps should reveal the problem. I can''t guarantee that
    Perpetua digital will show this, although it probably will. The metal certainly
    will. '
  created: '2006-08-25 12:06:30'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I hesitate to wade into the Gill tangent, but this thread seems already far
    afield from the original Lino/Mono merger topic.\r\n\r\nI will hazard a guess
    about your Joanna Italic challenge, Bill. The cap D strikes me as unGillish. The
    relation of outside curve to inside is such that the counter shape seems to bulge
    more at the top, giving the whole character a much higher center of gravity than
    seems appropriate for the design. By comparison, the Ds in Joanna Roman and the
    Perpetuas seem to sag a little lower.\r\n\r\nIf we're talking about errors that
    need to be corrected, however, I personally would have liked to see the extra
    weight in the crossbar of the T fixed in both Roman and Italic. But this characteristic
    is not unGillish (it's part of his original), and so doesn't fit the criteria
    of your initial query.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-25 15:04:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Kent's back!!!
  created: '2006-08-25 15:33:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Or perhaps it's the way the top of the stems are thicker than the bottom?\r\n(This
    from Linotype's site.)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/JoannNS_4802.png]"
  created: '2006-08-25 16:53:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Nick, that''s weird. It isn''t that way on the MyFonts or the FontShop sites. '
  created: '2006-08-25 17:03:01'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Don''t look at Linotype''s samples. Put you off your type purchase, it will. '
  created: '2006-08-25 17:14:34'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/get_Font_Image-1_5861.php.png]\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=catalog.fontdetail&displayfontid=M.6380.0.2&attributes.sampleSize=48&sampleText=ABCDEFGH&sampleSize=74\">Joanna
    Italic</a> at FontShop."
  created: '2006-08-25 18:11:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, that\u2019s weird.</em>\r\n\r\nGreat idea for a typeface, though.
    Shades of Unibody, Tyfa."
  created: '2006-08-25 18:37:57'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "I don't know the clue (the slant of the M?) on Joanna caps but I like the
    U. Maybe this photo of both type faces, a 20 or 24 point version will help. \r\n--<a
    href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/joanna_3704.gif]"
  created: '2006-08-25 20:42:42'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Back to the monolino merger. Mr. Siebert from <a href=\"http://www.fontblog.de/bruno-steinert-dankt-ab\"
    target=\"_blank\">fontblog</a> announced in his breaking news that Mr. Steinert
    will left Linotype on September the first.\r\n\r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\"
    target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2006-08-25 21:45:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Wow. Steinert said at TypeCon, if I remember rightly, that "Everything will
    remain the same. We just have a new parent company." Apparently not. What is happening?
  created: '2006-08-25 22:25:59'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I hope Bruno stays in the font biz. There''s a good track record of people
    doing their most interesting work after leaving larger font companies - Ascender
    being a recent example. '
  created: '2006-08-26 01:17:47'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Yes, Bruno should stay in the font biz. Yes, yes, yes.\r\n\r\nAnd Kent is
    right, for the reasons he stated. Very good! Most impressive."
  created: '2006-08-26 09:00:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Most impressive.\r\n\r\nI agree. Kent does have a teeny bit of an edge in
    this game as his wonderful font Whitman is an imaginative synthesis of Joanna
    and Caledonia. So he has done a thorough study of Joanna, as well as Dwiggins'
    faces. Not that I'm a sore loser or anything :)"
  created: '2006-08-26 13:02:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\". There\u2019s a good track record of people doing their most interesting
    work after leaving larger font companies\"\r\n\r\noh good! When are you all leavin'
    MS? ;)"
  created: '2006-08-26 13:47:10'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Oh, this is very good, thank you David, that must surely be the funniest
    thing anything has ever said on Typophile. Much better than my 'Zweet dreams,
    Zuzana' on an entertaining typographica thread that has evidently been 'suppressed'
    -- perhaps under threat of legal action from 'someone'? \r\n\r\nThis reminds me
    of an incident on the OpenType list in 2000, when I more or less innocently pointed
    out that ATM 4.6.1 suddenly did not support GX fonts anymore. \r\n\r\nHarold Grey,
    from Adobe, whos loves self-promotion more than he loves veracity, piped up to
    say it happened 'After consulting with Apple, who informed us that GX under Mac
    OS 9 was essentially a \"dead technology\" '.\r\n\r\nThis was all news to Apple.
    The redoubtable Dave Opstad, evidently too furious to realize he was addressing
    the list rather than Mr Grey wrote, \r\n\r\n'Harold, I'm curious...whom did you
    consult with here? Neither Peter Lofting, John Jenkins nor myself have spoken
    with you or anyone else from Adobe about this.'\r\n\r\nDead shocked silence on
    the list, as it dawns on everyone that Adobe has been exposed in the dissemination
    of a nearly unforgivable fib to Apple. The unbearable pressure is finally relieved
    by David Berlow, who quipped,\r\n\r\n'I hate it when daddy and mommy fight, so
    this can go off line?'\r\n\r\nNow if Apple is Daddy, Adobe is Mommy, and David
    is Junior, where does this put Mono and Lino? Grannie? \r\n\r\nAnd this, to try
    and sashay back into the topic, raises the question what that genius, Dave Opstad,
    is doing for Agfa/Mono, where he has apparently been employed for a couple of
    years or so? Dave is the genius (no exaggeration here) whose GX team, back in
    the mid-90s, gave us just about all the functionality of OpenType, transparency
    for any program that wanted it, and a thousand other even more brilliant features,
    in under 4MB of RAM, on both Windows and Mac. Of all the brilliant technology
    projects that went nowhere, this was the most brilliant I am aware of. So what's
    he doing for Agfa/Mono? It must be something really interesting . . . ."
  created: '2006-08-26 17:58:15'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Dave had been working on various tools and research projects most of which
    MTI wanted to keep under wraps. However, I did manage to book him for the <A HREF=\"http://www.atypi.org/30_past_conferences/07_Helsinki/30_program/30_other_events/10_typetech\">ATypI
    tech forum</A> last year and he gave a talk and demo on a couple of projects.
    I hope I can bring him up for TypeCon next year.\r\n\r\n>oh good! When are you
    all leavin\u2019 MS? ;)\r\n\r\nAlthough maybe you're the only person who would
    define MS as 'a large font company' there are a few projects I want to see through,
    I'd give myself another ten to fifteen years*. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n\r\n*insert
    Vista joke here :-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-26 18:20:23'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "<em>Much better than my \u2018Zweet dreams, Zuzana\u2019 on an entertaining
    typographica thread that has evidently been \u2018suppressed\u2019 </em>\r\n\r\nBill
    - As much as I'd like to provide a stage for drama, the reasons for thread malfunction
    at <em>Typographica</em> are never that intriguing. The post of which you speak
    was broken due to incompatibilities with the software that runs the blog. As soon
    as we upgrade we'll bring it all back so everyone can enjoy your punnery."
  created: '2006-08-26 21:58:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/punnera_5511.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-27 01:13:09'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Kent does have a teeny bit of an edge in this game as his wonderful font
    Whitman is an imaginative synthesis of Joanna and Caledonia. So he has done a
    thorough study of Joanna, as well as Dwiggins\u2019[s] faces.\r\n\r\nPrecisely.
    David Saunders (for it was he who drew the Johanna Italic caps for which there
    was no artwork as Gill intended the Roman caps to be used with it) tells this
    story against himself to illustrate the kind of subtle thing that can go wrong
    when you go into a project like this without researching it properly. The Joanna
    Italic caps was one of his first projects at Monotype; he only realized his error
    when later studying the Perpetua caps. Now consider that there was then nobody
    there who knew any better, and that nobody thought the defect worth fixing, and
    you get a sense of the loneliness of typographical insight and the rare miracle
    of typographical perfection. Kent has really been able to get inside Gill's head,
    I am full of admiration for that. To understand what is and isn't Gillish isn't
    a small imaginative achievement. "
  created: '2006-08-27 08:28:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Word from Germany is that Bruno is officially retiring, but will stay on
    as a paid consultant through the end of the calendar year. Hopefully that's good
    news for the Lino-employees. \r\n\r\nOf course no one expects him to remain \"retired\"
    for long, so there will be plenty of opportunities for obscure <A HREF=\"http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0095987/\">Bruce
    Willis</A> related jokes at some point in the future.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-27 18:46:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Gill intended the Roman caps to be used with it\r\n\r\nAh ha! So another
    right answer as to which one is wrong is: all of them.\r\n\r\nI thought the angles
    on the caps--difficult because they are so slight--somehow don't quite work together.
    That they were made by a different hand, and not originally intended, might explain
    it. "
  created: '2006-08-27 18:55:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"you\u2019re the only person who would define MS as \u2018a large font company\"\r\nWhat
    universe do you live in? ;-) I did not define MS as a font company. It is a software
    company. But, MS are nonetheless the biggest font company, by far. MS designs
    directly of by proxy, manufactures and distributes more fonts than anyone else
    (or is it more fonts than everyone else?). MS might be an OS and app and game
    and hardware and content and more, company, but MS are in Fact a large font company
    too. . . the biggest. Another way of looking at it: there are font products included
    in some of MS' product range that are not MS property, but not many."
  created: '2006-08-27 19:11:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It makes sense that Joanna Italic was one of David Saunders first projects
    at Monotype, because it has several sore thumbs (as William observed). Nonetheless,
    the idiosyncracies do give it a quaint charm, which is perhaps why no one was
    particularly bothered -- not that they didn't know any better. Gill's type designs
    have much \"bad\" drawing, so perhaps one should sympathize with Mr Saunders and
    the folks at Monotype.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ds_4603.jpg]\r\n\r\nConsider
    the cap D italic in Perpetua -- it would be standard practice -- then as now --
    to base its curve on a rotation of the curve in C or O, but this was not done,
    so the D we've been living with all these years is \"bad\". I've done a \"correction\"
    (centre character) showing how such a thing might be standardized, by matching
    the D's curve to that of C. But bear in mind the tenor of the times when Goudy,
    Cooper, and Gill were dealing with the straightjacket of the drawing office (\"because
    they've always done it that way,\" as Goudy moaned about having the \"a\" in his
    Garamond plumbed up), and that the foundries must have been prepared to give some
    ground."
  created: '2006-08-27 19:30:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>or is it more fonts than everyone else?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, I think that
    would be the case. At ATypI Helsinki, Bas from Underware was asking Laurence Penney
    to help him diagram the font business, estimating the different pie sections of
    various foundries and resellers. It was all guess work, of course, but probably
    reasonably accurate. Then Bas said 'What about Microsoft?' To which I recall Laurence's
    response as something like 'Oh, you want to include them? Okay, we need to redraw
    the pie.'"
  created: '2006-08-27 20:05:12'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">But, MS are nonetheless the biggest font company\r\n\r\nWhen you put it
    that way, you're right. \r\n\r\n>Okay, we need to redraw the pie.\r\n\r\nmmmm,
    Pie - time for lunch."
  created: '2006-08-27 20:07:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: mmmm, Pie... <a href="http://www.weebl.jolt.co.uk/piepod.htm">Bring on the
    mysterious chicken</a>.
  created: '2006-08-27 20:16:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>When you put it that way...</em>\r\n\r\nIf you're going to include bundling,
    don't forget, Nokia, Samsung etc."
  created: '2006-08-27 21:21:43'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"don\u2019t forget, Nokia, Samsung etc.\"\r\nYou mean the companies that
    don't use CE phones? Well, how many fonts can you stuff into a phone? I think
    the answer is \"less\" :)\r\n\r\n\"Okay, we need to redraw the pie.\u2019\"\r\n;)
    actually, I think \"that pie\", despite being spoilt, is all claimed.  If you
    want, as it's been suggested, you can bake a whole new pie if you want something
    fresh."
  created: '2006-08-28 13:16:28'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Gill\u2019s type designs have much \u201Cbad\u201D drawing, so perhaps one
    should sympathize with Mr Saunders and the folks at Monotype.\r\n\r\nAre you talking
    about Gill's actual drawings for the fonts, or are you talking about how they
    were transformed by MT and others?\r\n\r\n>Consider the cap D italic in Perpetua
    \u2014 it would be standard practice \u2014 then as now \u2014 to base its curve
    on a rotation of the curve in C or O, \r\n\r\nIt would? What's your authority
    for this rule?\r\n\r\n>so the D we\u2019ve been living with all these years is
    \u201Cbad\u201D. \r\n\r\nit is?\r\n\r\n>I\u2019ve done a \u201Ccorrection\u201D
    (centre character) showing how such a thing might be standardized, by matching
    the D\u2019s curve to that of C. But bear in mind the tenor of the times when
    Goudy, Cooper, and Gill were dealing with the straightjacket of the drawing office
    (\u201Cbecause they\u2019ve always done it that way,\u201D as Goudy moaned about
    having the \u201Ca\u201D in his Garamond plumbed up), and that the foundries must
    have been prepared to give some ground.\r\n\r\nNick, the point about the 'wrong'
    Perpetua D is that it is exactly the way Gill liked his D's and MT respected that.
    But - - you're so far off what Gill and Morison were trying to do with Perpetua.
    For heaven's sake, they had it hand cut by Malin first, specifically to get it
    away from looking like the drawings - - why not have a look at what Morison wrote
    about the development of the typeface in Talley of Types? You have a misconception
    about the process if you think that any of these people wanted to transfer an
    exact miniaturized replica of a perfect drawing to the printed page. That is not
    what they were trying to achieve, with Perpetua, with Gill's other typefaces.
    You'll get a clearer picture of this after you've looked at the book(s). The drawings
    were not a desired end product, merely an approximate guide to an end result.
    Drawings such as these cannot be taken as intended representations of the final
    type, and were never meant to be. That's why they can't be used as the basis for
    a digital implementation. You're still thinking like a lettering artist -- which
    is fine.\r\n\r\nKent could probably elucidate this better, but does he think it
    worth the bandwidth?\r\n\r\nWith regard to the pie, David is absolutely right.
    When the Microsoft Windows 95 Font Pack came out, and sold in the 8 or even 9
    figures, InfoWorld estimated that Microsoft had made more money from that one
    product than all type foundries put together since the beginning of time. Nobody
    has ever disputed this assertion (maybe they should have), and that would have
    put MS as history's most successful font company a good ten years ago. One wonders
    how much MS expected this success? After all, they productized it, and that's
    not something they undertake lightly. It's equally interested to note that they
    haven't productized anything like that since. Smart company. But I guess that
    isn't news."
  created: '2006-08-29 22:33:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>that it is exactly the way Gill liked his D\u2019s and MT respected that
    ...  they had it hand cut by Malin first, specifically to get it away from looking
    like the drawings </em>\r\n\r\nSo I guess they read his mind, if they didn't go
    by his drawings.\r\n\r\nBut seriously, the genesis of Perpetua italic is extremely
    convoluted and difficult, and the final drawings are missing, according to Tiffany
    Wardle's essay \"The Story of Perpetua\", from which it appears that Charles Malin
    had nothing to do with the italic. Ultimately, I don't believe that MT and Gill
    were able to satisfactorily resolve issues such as the curve of the D, but I don't
    think it detracts from the face, gives it personality in fact."
  created: '2006-08-30 04:41:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Well, how many fonts can you stuff into a phone? I think the answer is
    \u201Cless\u201D</em>\r\n\r\n31 million handsets sold in the 3rd quarter of 2006."
  created: '2006-08-31 21:34:04'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">So I guess they read his mind, if they didn\u2019t go by his drawings.\r\n\r\nThat
    must be it! All this time I thought they transmitted their ideas to one other
    via ordinary speech, but you know how naive I am. \r\n\r\nWhen will I ever learn
    to distrust whatever Morison writes? "
  created: '2006-08-31 21:48:56'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Well, the fire in Morison's apartment keeps us from knowing a lot of the truth.
    ;^)
  created: '2006-08-31 22:02:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'The droopy D is in <a href="http://www.tate.org.uk/collection/P/P08/P08077_9.jpg">this
    hand</a> engraving by Gill, so he thought it was ok in at least one design. A
    more traditional D is <a href="http://www.tate.org.uk/collection/T/T03/T03738_9.jpg">here</a>
    in stone-cut letters by Gill.  '
  created: '2006-08-31 22:13:12'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Perhaps it has something to do with the order and direction which he carved
    the letters. Was he a lefty?
  created: '2006-08-31 22:27:07'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Referring to David Peace's <em>Eric Gill: the inscriptions,</em> the first
    sign of what I'll call the sagging D appears in the stonecut work in the Stations
    of the Cross for Westminster Cathedral, carved during the First World War. Prior
    to that, all the Ds I've seen have a higher centre of gravity. The sag in these
    stonecut letters is not so pronounced as in the Felicity D, but then they are
    also upright. But in almost all of Gill's postwar stonecut lettering the D seems
    to sag somewhat, whether upright or italic.\r\n\r\nSince I can always be relied
    upon to make reference to Mr Gill's 'other interests', I'll remind everyone of
    the advice he gave to Will Carter regarding the lower bowl of the uppercase B:
    it should be 'like a young girl's buttock -- the way it hangs gently'. Perhaps
    the same can be said for the D.\r\n\r\nHere is one of my favourite Gill inscriptions,
    showcasing the sagging D in SEDENTES just a few years after its first appearance.
    This was carved in 1922. I stumbled across it entirely by chance in Amiens cathedral,
    but knew immediately that it was a Gill.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GillAsquithAmiens_4083.jpg]"
  created: '2006-08-31 23:28:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...the way it hangs gently\"\r\n\r\nTragic Mr. Gill's mind was not as pure
    as his letterforms.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-01 01:42:20'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: I take it you're not, then, an adherent of the Arianna Stassinopolous Huffington
    school of art history (which I probably do not grasp any better than the likely
    incorrect spelling of her fabulous name) which I think declares that the man is
    the work, the work is the man? That theory, obviously not so crudely stated, is
    implicit in a great deal of, say, Nietzsche Contra Wagner and Der Fall Wagner,
    and it must have plenty of earlier precedent. Does anyone know anything about
    those earlier precedents? I like to think that man's handiwork reveals his inner
    secrets more fully than anything else. And I always have a little difficulty giving
    unqualified credence to allegations of unparalleled parental abuse when the allegator
    is lining his pockets with the disclosure, as seems to have been the case with
    Gill's unfortunate (whichever way you look at it) daughter.
  created: '2006-09-06 12:02:32'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Tragic Mr. Gill\u2019s mind was not as pure as his letterforms.\"\r\nAre
    you kidding? Indecency does not go as far in type design as in most other visual
    arts, but without an occasional buttock in the way, what's left? Sex Pixels?"
  created: '2006-09-06 12:49:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That was vicious Sid :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-06 13:12:22'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "After all the blah-blah-blah- I'm sorry- dialog that has taken place in this
    thread, the end-result of the union of Lino & Mono makes me less than pleased.\r\n\r\nLinotype
    Standard postscript fonts went up from 21.00 to 24.00- and for what? To pay for
    the merger?\r\n\r\nThat may seem small but it still makes someone like myself
    on a limited budget for everything- not just including fonts- not too happy.\r\n\r\nAlso
    I think they removed a program where the more you buy you save. \r\n\r\n1 = 21\r\n3=
    19\r\n\r\nsomething like that and now its gone.\r\n\r\nBut at least OpenType prices
    have not gone up. \r\n\r\nMikey :-/"
  created: '2007-03-06 01:30:49'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Coles... just curious who mandated that FontShop had to do the same? \r\n\r\nWas
    it internal- \"our main competitor altered the market rate and we have to follow
    suit\" or was that apart of the agreement with FontShop and Monopoly- I mean Monotype-
    that when prices changed from the OEM (Mono) you had change the pricing with them?\r\n\r\nMike
    Diaz"
  created: '2007-03-06 04:44:59'
date: '2006-08-02 13:44:29'
node_type: forum
title: Mono & Lino Together At Last

---
