---
author:
  name: swiss dots
  picture: 111368
body: "Greetings Typophilers, just wanted to let you know about the documentary I'm
  making.\r\n\r\n<strong>Helvetica</strong> is a feature-length independent film about
  typography, graphic design and global visual culture. It looks at the proliferation
  of one typeface (which will celebrate its 50th birthday in 2007) as part of a larger
  conversation about the way type affects our lives. The film is an exploration of
  major cities and the type that inhabits them, and discussions with renowned designers
  about their work, their views on type, and the past fifty years of graphic design.
  <strong>Helvetica</strong> was shot in high-definition on location in the United
  States and across Europe. The film is currently in post-production and will begin
  screening at film festivals worldwide in early 2007. \r\n\r\nInterviewees in the
  film include Matthew Carter, Massimo Vignelli, Erik Spiekermann, Michael Bierut,
  Wim Crouwel, Hermann Zapf, Stefan Sagmeister, Jonathan Hoefler, Tobias Frere-Jones,
  Lars M\xFCller, Rick Poynor, Experimental Jetset, Pierre Miedinger, and many more.
  The film will also feature an original soundtrack with new music from Sonic Youth,
  Sam Prekop, Kim Hiorth\xF8y, and others. \r\n\r\nFor more info, there's now a website
  for the film: http://www.helveticafilm.com\r\n\r\nI'll also be screening a four-minute
  teaser at TypeCon this week, during Wednesday night's Typophile Film Festival. Hope
  to meet those of you who are attending. \r\n\r\nLooking forward to hearing all your
  thoughts and feedback on the film, and of course screening it all over the place
  in '07. We're currently finishing the editing process, and will be posting some
  clips and trailers on the site soon. If you'd like me to keep you posted about the
  film's progress, screenings and other news, we have a <a href=\"http://www.helveticafilm.com/mailing.html\">mailing
  list</a> so if you're interested, get on it. \r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\n-Gary\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sm_4063.badges.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Duckworth
  body: "That's pretty amazing!\r\n\r\nI'm looking forward to seeing it already! When
    is it likely to be released in the UK (we usually lag way behind the USA when
    it comes to release dates)?\r\n\r\nNice badges, by the way! Where did you get
    them?\r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2006-08-07 18:32:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Free with the merch - http://www.helveticafilm.com/shop.html  \r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si"
  created: '2006-08-07 18:39:28'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Wow. I think might have just soiled myself.
  created: '2006-08-07 18:44:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Only time will tell if it''s better than "Cooper Black, behind the typeface"
    or that Frutiger movie. But it looks promising. '
  created: '2006-08-07 18:54:53'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "http://typographi.com/001071.php\r\n\r\nYikes, I hope it's better than the
    Frutiger film. I feel pretty confident it will be."
  created: '2006-08-07 19:09:15'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "the frutiger-film really was bad, reading his own autobiography told you
    more about his typefaces AND his person than the whole film, imho.\r\n\r\ncant
    wait for the helvetica-film, im pretty sure it will be better than the other examples
    mentioned above."
  created: '2006-08-07 19:15:13'
- author:
    name: swiss dots
    picture: 111368
  body: "Oh, some design trivia that I forgot to mention: the film's Director of Photography,
    Luke Geissbuhler, is the son of designer Steff Geissbuhler. Luke's done some great
    film work (he's also the DP on the upcoming Sasha Baron Cohen film, among others).
    \r\n\r\nNaturally, I had to go with the Swiss DNA for a film like this...\r\n\r\n-Gary"
  created: '2006-08-07 19:15:41'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: Man I wish the Film Festival wasn't on the very first night, as I won't be
    able to make it.
  created: '2006-08-07 19:18:43'
- author:
    name: swiss dots
    picture: 111368
  body: "David, we'll be posting a remixed version of the TypeCon teaser on the film's
    wesbite in a few weeks.\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-07 19:24:54'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: 'swiss dots: please make sure that we swiss typophiles (or at least i :))
    can buy the film in switzerland. if you need help finding specialised stores,
    write me a mail and i''ll be glad to help you.'
  children:
  - author:
      name: swiss dots
      picture: 111368
    body: 'Thanks Kesh, we''ll definitely have a public screening in Zurich in the
      Spring. And maybe a guerilla outdoor screening on the walls of the old Haas
      type foundry in Munchenstein (here''s a shout out to super-sleuth Tobias Frere-Jones
      for helping me track down the building). The DVD will be distributed throughout
      Europe, I''ll let you know if we need help with Swiss stores. '
    created: '2006-08-07 20:06:54'
  created: '2006-08-07 19:39:56'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: 'Will you be giving away free buttons, Gary? : )'
  created: '2006-08-07 19:50:26'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Was that the 30,000 (general discussion) post? Or is this?
  created: '2006-08-07 19:52:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: no, maybe it's stuck at 29999?
  created: '2006-08-07 19:53:47'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: 30,000 posts? that's incredible!
  created: '2006-08-07 19:55:19'
- author:
    name: swiss dots
    picture: 111368
  body: "YES! Free love/hate Helvetica buttons at TypeCon! \r\n\r\nYou blew my surprise
    Andi...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-07 20:00:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Andi must have a Love/Hate thing going with you :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-07 20:04:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Looks like it's stuck at 29,999... \r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/forums\r\n\r\nsomeone
    needs to give it a knock. \r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2006-08-07 20:07:17'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: ok gary, please just announce the screening in zurich in your newsletter -
    again, if you need adresses to get some publicity for it, feel free to ask.
  created: '2006-08-07 20:20:07'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "Hi Gary. Hope there will be a repeat, for all of us who don't show up until
    Thursday!\r\n\r\nI can't wait to see the film. Congratulations!\r\n\r\nJLT\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt
    : http://www.hewnandhammered.com : rnrmf!"
  created: '2006-08-07 20:23:02'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Gary, \r\n\r\nFirst sorry for going off-topic - I though it was exciting
    that typophile general discussions was about to click over to 30,000 posts, shouldn't
    have sidetracked the thread. \r\n\r\nAnyway, I note that the site mentions Apple,
    but did you visit Apple and film any of the font folk over there?\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si"
  created: '2006-08-07 23:01:33'
- author:
    name: swiss dots
    picture: 111368
  body: "Thanks Si, no worries. That is weird that it's still stuck though!\r\n\r\nWell
    there was talk about interviewing Steve Jobs for the film... but it never went
    anywhere. But then so many of the designers we interviewed referenced the Apple/Mac
    influence on Helvetica's popularity, and its affect on graphic design in general,
    that we figured the point had been made. \r\n\r\nThanks again,\r\n\r\n-Gary"
  created: '2006-08-07 23:11:05'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'True, I wonder how much a part of popular culture the font would be today
    if it wasn''t for Apple bundling it? But if you couldn''t get his Steveness, would
    interviewing a mere mortal like Peter Lofting or Dave Opstad have been a suitable
    substitute, probably not. '
  created: '2006-08-07 23:41:02'
- author:
    name: swiss dots
    picture: 111368
  body: "One of the challenges putting this film together was my desire not to make
    it a standard talking-head film, where dozens of people chime in with one quote
    about the subject. I wanted each interview to be a mini-profile, so you're getting
    to spend a few minutes with, say, Matthew Carter, learning about his background,
    his views on type, what he tells people when they ask him what he does for a living,
    etc. And then you get his views about Helvetica. The downside of this approach
    is that I could only include so many people in the film. There are hundreds of
    people who've got an opinion about the typeface, or were in some way responsible
    for its popularity.\r\n\r\nIt's funny because I originally wanted to make a documentary
    about type design, past/present/future. Then I realized that it would take a loooong
    time, like 3 to 5 years at least, to make a film that really covered all that
    and got it right. So I thought \"Well, I'll just pick one typeface, that'll be
    easy!\" \r\n\r\nBut of course, I was wrong! \r\n\r\n-Gary\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-08 00:42:38'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: How exciting
  created: '2006-08-08 05:03:40'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "There should be \"What's Helvetica?\" pins set in Arial.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2006-08-08 08:50:49'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: Really looking forward seeing it. Do you know when it comes to Sweden?
  created: '2006-08-08 12:25:21'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: Any chance of seeing it in Finland?
  created: '2006-08-08 12:37:03'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> There should be \u201CWhat\u2019s Helvetica?\u201D pins set in Arial\r\n\r\nComplete
    with an incorrect apostrophe?\r\n\r\nWhen I saw the button, I Hate Helvetica above,
    I thought the font should have been something different. Univers, Arial, Gill,
    heck, even Times. But perhaps there is some satire involved in using Helvetica
    for it."
  created: '2006-08-08 12:56:05'
- author:
    name: swiss dots
    picture: 111368
  body: "yes, we'll be screening the film in finland/sweden/all over europe in the
    spring, either at film festivals, as part of design conferences, or at event screenings
    in major cities. if you get on the mailing list at the helvetica film site, we'll
    keep you posted, should have the screening schedule setup by november. \r\n\r\nand
    yes, \"i hate helvetica\" set in helvetica = satire. \r\n\r\nstay on the lookout
    for our \"friends don't let friends use arial\" shirts...\r\n\r\n-gary\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-08 14:14:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "This sounds great, and I can't wait to see it. I'm slightly curious, because,
    like two other mostly teutonic products, the VW bug and the Beatles ;), it was
    not until they were hits in America that they gained world culture status. Helvetica
    becoming a hit here depended on Mike Parker bringing it to America, and Marva
    Warnock bringing it to DTP. So, it sounds like you presenting \"the greatest story
    ever told\", without the involvement of  St. Peter or Mary Magdalene ;)\r\n\r\n\u201Cfriends
    don\u2019t let friends use arial\u201D That's just ridiculous. If friends don\u2019t
    let friends use Windows, the Arial use takes care of itself. ;)"
  created: '2006-08-08 15:16:10'
- author:
    name: NiceTry
    picture: 110937
  body: Whoa! That sounds awesome. Of course I don't know who I will be able to convince
    to see it with me ;)
  created: '2006-08-08 15:17:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"stay on the lookout for our \u201Cfriends don\u2019t let friends use arial\u201D
    shirts\u2026\"\r\n\r\nAhhh, what are friends for :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-08 15:33:20'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> That\u2019s just ridiculous. If friends don\u2019t let friends use Windows,
    the Arial use takes care of itself.\r\n\r\nArial has been included with Mac OS
    since OS9 and is also very common in Linux installations, so you're about five
    years too late. \r\n\r\n>it was not until they were hits in America that they
    gained world culture status.\r\n\r\nDavid, can you point us to an article, or
    better yet tell us the story behind this? I'd always imagined the font as being
    smuggled into the country along with a hoard of Nazi gold, the original Mona Lisa,
    and various alien artifacts by a group of unscrupulous Swiss art dealers, aboard
    a decommissioned U-boat manned by the cast and crew of Casablanca. But I watch
    too much TV. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-08 16:03:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Actually, it came to the U.S. on the \"LoveBoat\" after being smuggled aboard
    from \"Fantasy Island\" \"The font boss, the FONT!!!\"\r\n\r\nBut then again,
    I have a short memory :-)\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-08 16:31:06'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "> stay on the lookout for our \u201Cfriends don\u2019t let friends use arial\u201D
    shirts\u2026\r\n\r\nGotta get me one of those! Yowza!\r\n\r\nK.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-08 17:24:34'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "The version I heard had the LoveBoat going towards Europe, when it was torpedoed
    by a West-bound decommissioned U-boat, to the tune of \"Haarrrr, Play it again
    Sam, ya scurvy dog\". I also heard the crew of the LoveBoat were seen wearing
    t-shirts saying \"I love Arial\", \"I love Helios\", \"I love Triumverate\" and/or
    \"I love Megaron\". \r\n\r\nIf only there had been no life jackets..."
  created: '2006-08-08 17:35:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">The version I heard...\r\n\r\nNo disrespect to Gary, but that's one movie
    I'd pay to see! "
  created: '2006-08-08 17:41:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...that\u2019s one movie I\u2019d pay to see!\"\r\n\r\nI'm checking \"Movietickets.com\"
    right now for tickets.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-08 19:12:59'
- author:
    name: swiss dots
    picture: 111368
  body: "David, I've actually been in contact with Mike, trying to arrange a time
    this week at TypeCon to interview him. I know he played a huge part in the Helvetica
    story, and he's already referenced in the film by Matthew Carter and others. \r\n\r\nAnd
    actually, I was kidding about the \"Friends Don't Let Friends Use Arial\" shirt!
    But hell, maybe we'll make up a few just for kicks...\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\n-Gary "
  created: '2006-08-08 22:25:47'
- author:
    name: russ
  body: "Hey Gary,\r\n\r\nGreat news about the film. Let us know when us peeps in
    Blightly can get hold of it!\r\n(Blighty = Great Britain)\r\n\r\nWhat's this about
    limited edition film prints? You've done with Build? Would that be Build as in
    Michael C Place of The Designers Republic? I love his work! Might have to order
    one of those... just got to work out when I'm getting paid!"
  children:
  - author:
      name: swiss dots
      picture: 111368
    body: "correct russ, that's michael c. place of build, formerly with TDR. \r\nhttp://www.designbybuild.com\r\n\r\nhere
      he is below with his \"coffee, tea and helvetica\" mug.\r\n\r\nwe'll be unveiling
      his print design in a few weeks.\r\n\r\ncheers,\r\n\r\n-gary\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/place1_6346.jpg]"
    created: '2006-08-09 02:37:12'
  created: '2006-08-09 01:07:27'
- author:
    name: anthonys
  body: "Fantastic - can't wait to see it! \r\n\r\nHave you heard of a Melbourne design
    studio called The Letterbox? I saw a lot of lectures by the owner, Stephen Banham,
    on typography when I lived there, and he also lectured at one of the universities
    I went to. \r\n\r\nAnyway, he produced a lot of work based on Helvetica, including
    a book mapping typefaces in the CBD of Melbourne > http://www.the-letterbox.com.au/merchandise/mer_bks_grand.html
    (of which he found Helvetica dominated). He also sells some nice t-shirts > http://www.the-letterbox.com.au/framesets/frames_mer_tshirts.html\r\n\r\nI
    added a link to your website from my blog :)"
  created: '2006-08-09 11:27:31'
- author:
    name: solbachd
  body: "kim hiorth\xF8y. i so like his music!\r\nthat's all i can say."
  created: '2006-08-09 15:01:02'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: i want that mug. in fact, i think i'll just make one for myself if i cant
    find it in a store. any idea? (please answer via mail on art-theglyphyouknow-ificial.ch
    - dont wanna take this thread offtopic again)
  created: '2006-08-09 15:13:34'
- author:
    name: swiss dots
    picture: 111368
  body: "thanks anthony, yes i've talked to stephen banham a lot, i was trying to
    make it down to film in melbourne but just didn't have the budget.\r\n\r\nand
    kesh, you should contact michael at build to see how to get a mug, you can reach
    him through his site: http://www.designbybuild.com\r\n\r\ni think he designed
    it for a japanese company that sells them.\r\n\r\ni'm off to typecon...\r\n\r\ncheers,\r\n\r\n-gary"
  created: '2006-08-09 15:19:55'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: thanks, just sent him an email.
  created: '2006-08-09 17:03:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "We saw the preview of the Helvetica film at TypeCon and enjoyed the snippet--even
    though it was just a rough cut. I guess when we see the \"now playing at a theatre
    near you\" sign, we will know it is golden :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-15 13:58:06'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "The film snippet was definitely enough to wet my appetite! It looks very
    clever and well thought out - you'll have to give us a countdown to the theater
    release, Gary!\r\n\r\nAndi"
  created: '2006-08-15 14:36:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I hope it's like <a href=\"http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120802/\">The Red
    Violin.</a>\r\n\r\nMatt C. could play Vince Figgins with a cockney accent, like
    Noel Coward in Red Peppers. \r\n"
  created: '2006-08-15 16:33:39'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "I am definitely looking forward to this movie!\r\n\r\nBTW, I think the \"I
    love Helvetica\" button should've been set in ITC Garamond."
  created: '2006-08-15 16:40:39'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "\u201CPlot Outline: A red and perfect violin inspires passion, making its
    way through three centuries over several owners and countries, eventually ending
    up at an auction where it may find a new owner.\u201D\r\n\r\n... Sure, I could
    see it working..."
  created: '2006-08-15 16:43:27'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I'll echo what others have said, it really does look fun, educational and
    intriguing. :^)
  created: '2006-08-15 17:10:52'
- author:
    name: ichad
    picture: 109467
  body: "Anyone know where you can get these gems? Russ - did you get a reply? Gary?\r\n\r\nWatched
    the film last night at the London ICA opening night. The cinema was full.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/place1_6346_6615.jpg]"
  created: '2007-09-08 09:40:06'
- author:
    name: swiss dots
    picture: 111368
  body: "Best bet would be to contact the designer, Michael C. Place. Info on his
    site:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.designbybuild.com/\r\n\r\nI think he may have designed
    those for a Japanese company... not sure though.\r\n\r\nAnd thanks for going to
    the ICA screening!\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\n-Gary"
  created: '2007-09-08 17:45:51'
- author:
    name: michelemiller
  body: Saw it at IFC last night--it's great. My viewing angle was quite acute, so
    I'm not sure--but I think they spelled Arim Hofmann's name wrong. I only know
    this because I misspelled it the same way in a book on Chermayeff & Geismar.
  created: '2007-09-15 16:24:33'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: I am finally gonna be able to see this in Norway at the Bergen International
    Film Festival in one month time. I am currently not sleeping out of excitement
    (there's a month left so I hope I get some sleep;-)
  created: '2007-09-15 16:33:37'
- author:
    name: michelemiller
  body: Armin--geez, now I misspell his first name. I guess I have it in for him.
  created: '2007-09-15 16:55:17'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: "Gary: Too bad you didn't get to visit Melbourne during the filming. Stephen
    has some really interesting work that would probably fit the film (talking without
    having seen it yet). I worked with Stephen Banham, of the Letterbox, teaching
    a post grad course in Typography, Identity & Publication Design at RMIT in Melbourne.
    Stephen is often misinterpreted that he hates Helvetica from his Death to Helvetica
    t-shirts. He even considered not reprinting them at one stage from this very reason.
    What Stephen is trying to make a point of is designers use of Helvetica as an
    easy way out of an identity design jam. Slap on Helvetica and be safe.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way Gary: We are thinking of holding a pre screening gathering at the Film
    Festival here in Bergen, Norway. Would you be interested in holding a pre screening
    short lecture/introduction in the mid/end of October? If interested I will start
    researching where we can find some funding to get you over (Probably the film
    festival would join forces with us; the local norwegian AIGA equivalent)"
  created: '2007-09-15 17:28:06'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Michele --\r\n\r\nYou're right. Mark Jamra (who studied with Armin) pointed
    out the misspelling to Gary in Seattle. I don't know if Gary quite believed him
    or not, since this was the first time it had been mentioned.\r\n\r\nYou may be
    only the second to notice.\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2007-09-15 18:09:47'
date: '2006-08-07 17:18:58'
title: 'Helvetica: The Film'

---
