---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: "http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/4788167.stm \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Being a victim isn't the monopoly of one group, no matter\r\nhow much US
    media is leveraged to make us believe that.\r\n\r\nPoland?\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/5165214.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-13 22:52:23'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "Hrant, you should have made the comma a full stop. The rest doesn't make
    sense.\r\n\r\nEdit: Although I can say U.S. media is more pluralistic and reliable
    than BBC news."
  created: '2006-08-14 13:23:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Only if you're Irish.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-14 14:25:35'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: Assume I am not. How does it affect the equation?
  created: '2006-08-14 14:28:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Like I commented on Flickr recently, it's pretty hopeless to try to counter
    decades of rich-media brainwashing with some comments on a forum. Not to mention
    countering outright deceptive propaganda amongst us.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-14 14:31:20'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "I agree! The BBC is richly funded from the public purse -- probably more
    than any other network in the world -- and engages in deceptive propoganda that
    may brainwash some.\r\n\r\nBut if this forum is inappropriate, perhaps you could
    be less cryptic, or refer us to the right place?"
  created: '2006-08-14 14:55:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I will not, because I don't want to be\r\npersecuted for exercising free
    speech.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-14 15:10:19'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"and engages in deceptive propoganda that may brainwash some.\"\r\n\r\nPropaganda
    or a point of view? Honest question.\r\n\r\nAdmittedly, the difference is often
    a fine line. \r\n\r\nIf you think the BBC is lopsided, then you need to watch
    some American news channels. ;o)"
  created: '2006-08-14 15:19:49'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "The point is that you can watch SEVERAL American channels. The bias is explicit,
    and the the money is private. The BBC is public, but selective ints coverage and
    dishonest about its agenda.\r\n\r\nThe BBC is not just a British problem. Thanks
    to British taxpayers, it is the world's biggest and most lavishly funded news
    organization. No other station broadcasts so extensively in dozens of languages,
    on TV, radio and online. The BBC's radio service alone attracts over 163 million
    listeners. It pours forth its world view in Persian, Arabic and Turkish, Macedonian,
    Albanian, Azeri, Uzbek, ...\r\n\r\nGet the picture?"
  created: '2006-08-14 15:37:16'
- author:
    name: BlueJ
    picture: 110635
  body: Thanks God in China is blocked ;)
  created: '2006-08-15 02:23:04'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "A lot of things are blocked in China...\r\nAs a former UK tax payer, I am
    happy about every penny I gave to the BBC trhough the TV license. Are you telling
    me that all these \"several\" american channels give different points of views?
    They are all the same bollocks with different names! I hope you don't think this
    is real diversity...\r\nWas this thread meant to be about type or was it just
    an excuse to diss the BBC?"
  created: '2006-08-15 17:42:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Simon, who started the thread, placed a key\r\nquestion-mark, so he can't
    be accused of that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-15 17:45:05'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Regarding the BBC, any media corporation that produced both the original and
    revamped Doctor Who series is well worth every penny it gets! ;-)
  created: '2006-08-15 18:00:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Univers Thin (whatever number that is these days) All Caps, tight-but-not-touching
    -- is that the built-in kerning Dan?\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nThe content referred to
    \"displaced persons\", not media skew.\r\n\r\nBut perhaps even mentioning this
    could be considered skew, i.e. how the issue is \"cut\". That onvolves timing,
    also. So it's interesting that German-Polish WW2 issues are emerging, in the light
    of the two Polish-born stars on Germany's World Cup team, and Gross' revelation
    about being in the SS, as well as this. Could be that there's a consensus that
    the issue is cool enough to handle, and negotiate reparations?\r\n\r\nReparations
    seem to be recognized more widely as a realistic prospect with political appeal,
    -- Hezbollah, for instance, yesterday promising financial support for those recently
    bombed out of their homes in Lebanon.\r\n\r\nBut I dunno, while reparation is
    one way to atone for past grievances, it would be terrible if it was institutionalized
    as an acceptable cost of \"solving\" political problems with bombs."
  created: '2006-08-15 18:37:12'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "><em>Univers Thin (whatever number that is these days) All Caps, tight-but-not-touching
    \r\n>\u2014 is that the built-in kerning Dan?</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think so\u2026
    looks rather tight to me. I can't tell everything from the photos\u2026 but if
    they keep the tight-but-not-touching treatment to the headline areas only the
    design might be OK overall.\r\n\r\nThe BBC article is interesting. The German
    media coverage of the exhibition that I have seen has focused on how little the
    exhibition focused on Germans who were dispersed from Poland. It was supposed
    to be an exhibition on refugees in gerneral.\r\n\r\nI saw interviews with several
    political and cultural figures from Poland who had visited the exhibition and
    who seemed quite relieved about the actual focus. They thought that it was a perfectly
    good exhibition. But I also remember a counter point made by a woman from Prague,
    though. She thought that the exhibition didn't focus enough on \"why\" the Germans
    were forced out of Eastern Europe, referring to the level of enthusiasm for Hitler
    in the Sudetenland before 1938, etc. \r\n\r\nOf course, I saw these interviews
    on German state TV, so there is certainly the possibility of bias in the opposite
    direction of any BBC bias\u2026"
  created: '2006-08-15 18:59:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, but how else could it be, under Capitalism?\r\n\r\nBTW, Hzballa has
    always had that policy in place.* That's why they're so popular, and attacking
    them only increases grassroots support. They even applied that policy to the Christians
    who collaborated with Israel during the civil war; these were the people who carried
    out the Sabra-Shateela massacres (with Israeli help) no less. And when was the
    Jewish golden age? In Spain, under the Muslims. This is not a war of religions,
    it's a war of global financial domination versus human decency. Faith is simply
    leveraged to motivate the peon masses.\r\n\r\n* Which makes me wonder if that's
    why Israel destroyed so much: maybe they're trying to bankrupt Hzballa! Collateral
    human damage? Those in power don't care a cluster bomb cluster about that. However,
    soon enough the world will rebuild Lebanon again... while Israel remains mired.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-15 19:00:33'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>And when was the Jewish golden age? In Spain, under the Muslims.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd
    what happened to the Jews once the Muslims were forced out of Spain? They were
    killed by the Inquisition, or forced to convert\u2014only to continue to be killed
    over the next few centuries because the Inquisition didn't believe their conversions
    to be genuine enough!"
  created: '2006-08-15 19:04:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But now:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/5193092.stm\r\n\r\nBecause:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/5258240.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-15 19:18:52'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/magazine/3077964.stm
  created: '2006-08-16 10:23:35'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "The Jews prospered in Spain under Islam intellectually, while forced to pay
    a head tax: a rule of Islam. Then they prospered in Iraq until they were massacred
    and forced to flee with nothing but the shirts on their back.\r\n\r\nAs for Israel
    destroying much in Lebanon: you're obviously watching/reading too much al-BBC.
    This was the impression they intended to create, by reusing images, some of which
    were doctored. The New York Times was also surprised to realize that the same
    man shown dead in the rubble one day, was seen a few days later in another photo
    mourning the destruction. If Israel wanted it could raze Beirut. Fact is it was
    selective. \r\n\r\nMake no mistake, Israel's actions are not all justified; but
    no other government in the world would respond more discriminately if attacked
    -- and you know it. \r\n\r\nHrant, you can keep ignoring thbe religious dimension.
    By reading BBC you wouldn't even know the latese arrests shared a \"faith\" (in
    what? not in Marx or in humanity). But if this IS about money, then if Israel+Britain+Canada+US
    = capitalism; and Hezbollah+Syria+Iran=socialism, then I'm giving up my Canadian
    \ NDP membership and going capitalist."
  created: '2006-08-16 13:30:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">And when was the Jewish golden age? In Spain, under the Muslims. \r\n\r\nThis
    is a very complex story. During some periods, the Muslim rulers were more tolerant
    and enlightened than those in Europe. This led to a flowering of culture, both
    Muslim and Jewish. In other periods, fanatical Muslim rulers forced conversion
    of both Jews and Christians under threat of death. \r\n\r\nThe whole story, which
    I haven't studied, had a big impact on the history of both the Muslim and Christian
    worlds. The Muslim scholars of the tolerant periods revived Greek learning, which
    when transferred to the West contributed to the Renaissance. The fanatics I believe
    helped cause the decline of the Morrocan kingdoms and their eventual military
    defeat on the European continent by Christians in the areas of Spain and Portugal.
    \ "
  created: '2006-08-16 14:19:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Was this thread meant to be about type or was it just an excuse to diss
    the BBC? \r\n\r\nActually in posting this I wasn't interested in the BBC. I could
    have linked to any media story on the exhibition. I noticed that the exhibit looked
    typographically well designed, but the subject material appeared to be controversial.
    So was really interested in the juxtaposition of good design and difficult subject
    material.  "
  created: '2006-08-16 14:35:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Like I said, you can't reverse industrial-strength brainwashing with ASCII.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-16 15:01:05'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Just to make things clearer the BBC is not funded by taxes, rather everyone
    (under 75) who owns a television in Britain has to pay for a licence the money
    goes direct to the BBC and not through any government hands, precisely to avoid
    any form of agenda being imposed by the government of the day.\r\n\r\nThe Grass
    story is a bit of a shocker.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-08-16 15:26:47'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nHow little prodding it took:\r\n\r\nFirst: \"Being a victim
    isn\u2019t the monopoly of one group, no matter\r\nhow much US media is leveraged
    to make us believe that.\"\r\nSecond: \"I don\u2019t want to be persecuted for
    exercising free speech.\"\r\n\r\nAnd then your true colours: \"And when was the
    Jewish golden age? In Spain, under the Muslims. This is not a war of religions,
    it\u2019s a war of global financial domination versus human decency.\"\r\n\r\nThere's
    no need for you to be cryptic anymore.  Be explicit, no one will persecute you
    for your free speech and human decency."
  created: '2006-08-16 15:34:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Lies.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-16 15:52:18'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "He that LIES with dogs wakes up with fleas ;-)\r\n\r\n\r\nTQ"
  created: '2006-08-16 16:01:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "[ Dan: <em>And what happened to the Jews once the Muslims were forced out
    of Spain? They were killed by the Inquisition, or forced to convert\u2014only
    to continue to be killed over the next few centuries because the Inquisition didn\u2019t
    believe their conversions to be genuine enough!</em>\r\n\r\nAs an aside: the complete
    term 'Spanish Inquisition' should be used in this context, since as an institution
    and in its operating method it was unique and not related to the Roman Inquisition
    which had jurisdiction only over baptised Catholics and operated under episcopal
    oversight. The Spanish Inquisition was a secular creation established by Ferdinand
    and Isabella and remained under the direct control of the Spanish monarchy. As
    such, it was used to give bogus legal justification to the theft of Jewish property
    by the state and by the monarchs' favoured supporters. ]"
  created: '2006-08-16 17:47:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sounds familiar...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-16 18:08:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">The Spanish Inquisition was a secular creation\r\n\r\nAccording to the history
    I am looking at the Spanish Inquisition was authorized by Pope Sixtus IV in 1478,
    and later authorized extensions of it. "
  created: '2006-08-16 18:21:27'
- author:
    name: dylan
    picture: 128368
  body: "Hrant, \r\n\r\nI elect you as official Drama Queen of Typophile. Ye shall
    litter the land with Vagueness, Haughtiness, Anger, and Intellectualism! Now be
    gone from my sight! Poof!\r\n\r\nDylan - who wonders why he bothers..."
  created: '2006-08-16 18:22:00'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Sounds familiar\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nOh, the sarcasm! Hrant, I love ya \u2014
    ya militant bastard! ;)\r\n\r\nBut I gotta ask, \"so where's the type?\" :)"
  created: '2006-08-16 18:46:27'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "Dylan,\r\n\r\nYou know Hrant is one of the most prolific and important contributors
    on type here, and a well-loved member. You can tolerate a little drama..."
  children:
  - author:
      name: dylan
      picture: 128368
    body: "Typequake:\r\n\r\nJust to clarify one thing, though...\"prolific\" is about
      abundance. Nothing more (by definition, anyway). \"Important\"...hmmm. I'll
      be nice and not argue that one. \"Well-loved\" . . . ?\r\n\r\nEDIT: Just realized
      that I'm beating a carcass by bringing any criticism of Hrant. Reading through
      this old thread spoke volumes: \r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/886\r\n\r\nNow
      back to the billable work."
    created: '2006-08-16 19:46:18'
  created: '2006-08-16 18:52:01'
- author:
    name: dylan
    picture: 128368
  body: '* sigh * I know, I know...it''s just that my Typophile union contract states
    that I''m allowed one barb per quarter.'
  created: '2006-08-16 18:56:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the juxtaposition of good design and difficult subject material.</em>\r\n\r\nAre
    you saying that the design is refined and polished, whereas the content is raw?\r\nThe
    typography is appropriate to the distancing provided by the objectivity of the
    institution mounting the exhibit, in which case the typography represents the
    cool analytical institution, juxtaposed against the issue which is still emotional.
    So it's appropriate, whereas rough grunge typography, more representative of pain,
    anger and war, would be inflammatory."
  created: '2006-08-16 19:00:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>According to the history I am looking at the Spanish Inquisition
    was authorized by Pope Sixtus IV in 1478, and later authorized extensions of it.</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    authorised by Sixtus IV, but managed by the crown. Ferdinand & Isabella wrote
    to the Pope requesting permission to establish the Spanish Inquisition and for
    it to operate in a unique way that differed significantly from the inquisition
    that developed during the Middle Ages. The latter was remarkably strictly regulated
    from an early period precisely because the scholastic Churchmen understood the
    potential for abuse and had no illusions about the temptations of secular power.
    The use of an institution intended to uncover theological heresy as a tool of
    state repression emerges in the early modern period with the strengthening of
    the aparatus of secular authority. In Spain, this coincided with the defeat and
    expulsion of the Moors and the subsequent efforts to consolidate a Christian national
    identity, of which the Spanish Jews were victims."
  created: '2006-08-17 01:28:45'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Interesting though, that when my ancestors (Central/Eastern European) were
    clearing feces and rubbish from town streets, bathing infrequently, and possessed
    of as much learning as the animals they milked, the Muslims of the time were by
    far our social and cultural superiors.\r\n\r\nMacksood Aftab writes that:\r\n\r\nCities
    like Baghdad, Damascus, Cairo and Cordoba were the centers of civilization. These
    cities were flourishing and Muslim scientists made tremendous progress in applied
    as well as theoretical Science and Technology. In Europe, however, the situation
    was much different. Europe was in the Dark Ages. It had no infrastructure or central
    government. To the Muslims, Europe was backward, unorganized, carried no strategic
    importance and was essentially irrelevant. This considering the time period was
    in fact true. Nevertheless the Catholic Church (which at the time was the strongest
    institution in Europe) successfully convinced Christian Europe that the Muslims
    were infidels. This caused Europeans to think that Muslims were culturally inferior
    to Europe and thus Europe was unable to benefit from the new scientific discoveries
    being made in the Islamic lands before the 1100's. By doing this Europe kept itself
    in the Dark Ages while from China to Spain Islamic Civilization prospered. During
    the Crusades there was limited contact between Muslims and Christians and not
    much was transferred. As A. Lewis explains, \"The Crusaders were men of action,
    not men of learning.\"\r\n\r\nWhich appears to be just as true today. Maybe America's
    \"left-wing\" scholars (labels, labels) will one day feel comfortable asking the
    rest of us in the west to look in the mirror and consider the possibility that
    our own prejudices - and thus, our propensity to *allow* western governments a
    free hand in wrong-headed foreign adventurism - have caused the kind of \"terrorism\"
    (response?) we see today. Instead, individuals who are able to think freely and
    ask the hard questions are either censured or simply ignored. \r\n\r\nThe tragedy
    of our century (this one and the last) is that the beast rages because it cannot
    (or will not) see its own face in the mirror.   "
  created: '2006-08-17 02:47:08'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: 'No: Occam''s razor.'
  created: '2006-08-17 04:00:23'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "John, as a Catholic I would not be so enthusiasthic about defending the inquisition,
    I know it was wrong and it can't be justified saying that things where that way
    everywhere on those days because it went against the actual spirit of a true christianity.
    \r\n\r\nIt was a mistake.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-08-17 16:47:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Are you saying that the design is refined and polished, whereas the content
    is raw?\r\n\r\nYup, pretty much. Was hoping some folks in Europe might have chipped
    in - I didn't expect the Spanish Inquisition ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-17 16:50:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "LOL!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-17 16:52:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Palatine: beautiful.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-17 18:39:12'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "\"Just to make things clearer the BBC is not funded by taxes, rather everyone
    (under 75) who owns a television in Britain has to pay for a licence the money
    goes direct to the BBC and not through any government hands, precisely to avoid
    any form of agenda being imposed by the government of the day\"\r\n\r\nThanks
    Tim, that was clear to me, I should have underlined \"through the TV license\"..I
    assumed it was clear to everyone how BBC operates. Apparentely is not...\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-17 19:00:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>John, as a Catholic I would not be so enthusiasthic about defending the
    inquisition, I know it was wrong and it can\u2019t be justified saying that things
    where that way everywhere on those days because it went against the actual spirit
    of a true christianity.</em>\r\n\r\nDid I suggest that the inquisition was justified
    because 'things were that way everywhere on those days'? That isn't the sort of
    argument I employ. \r\n\r\nI think there are entirely legitimate moral and theological
    criticisms to be made of the Roman inquistion and, more specifically, of some
    of the methods employed by the inquisition. But at the same time I think it is
    very necessary to talk accurately about what the inquisition was, how it was organised,
    how it operated, what its aims were, etc. So this is why I think it is important
    that the distinction between the Roman inquisition and the Spanish inquisition
    be recognised, because the latter was distinct in several respects with regard
    to both its organisation, its mandate and its methods."
  created: '2006-08-17 22:15:06'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Ok, agreed.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-08-18 03:34:01'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "> Just to make things clearer the BBC is not funded by taxes, rather everyone
    (under 75) who owns a television in Britain has to pay for a licence the money
    goes direct to the BBC....\r\n\r\nThat's taxation. It's just not funded by the
    general public purse or by income taxes (rather, it's more regressive than an
    income tax).\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-08-18 03:36:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"Vote with your wallet.\"\r\n\"No taxation without representation.\"\r\nYes,
    put money at the heart of society, and continue thinking\r\nthat democracy can
    work... Just look at the wonderful results!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-18 03:44:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Just look at the wonderful results!\r\n\r\nDomestically, the liberal democracies
    are far more productive and prosperous, as well as having far more individual
    choice and personal liberty. \r\n\r\nInternational relations are still to a great
    extent anarchic and break into violence, either between autocratic states, or
    between democratic and autocratic ones. Democratic states do not attack one another,
    so far. "
  created: '2006-08-18 03:51:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I tell ya, ain't the Official Party Line just grand?\r\nGenocide, shmenocide.
    Except the Special One of course.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-18 04:04:11'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "Even Tigran Petrosian couldn't defend this position with all the prophylaxis
    in the world. So raise a glass of your favourite California wine, and give praise.\r\n\r\nNo
    really, one wonders if this is the idealism of youth talking, or racist hatred
    and envy so ingrained that it will not pass with age."
  created: '2006-08-18 05:02:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, give Decency and Fairness bad labels, so that the system\r\ncan continue
    raping the meek. And it's counting on your vote.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-18 05:09:08'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: In this country and yours governments are elected. If you have a better, non-violent
    idea -- let's hear it.
  created: '2006-08-18 05:13:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, not again. Instead of argumentation, I'll just stick to\r\nridicule:
    the positive results are the same (naught) but it's\r\nmore enjoyable for myself;
    hence, in toto, more efficacious.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-18 05:29:00'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: 'Enjoyment and its public broadcast on the internet you may have been deprived
    of had you lived in those countries you so adore: those countries of "fairness"
    and "decency" where, for example, ancient statues are destroyed by the Talibhan,
    or where Kurds are peresecuted, etc. There, too, it has always been about capitalism,
    right?'
  created: '2006-08-18 05:43:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Typequake, if you want to see the locus classicus of Hrant's plan for a decent
    and fair world it is here (about a third of the way down, 18 March 2004):\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/3577?from=50&comments_per_page=50\r\n\r\nI
    searched for it at a later date when Hrant referred to it, and discussed it here
    (a bit over half way down, June 15 06):\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/20337?from=200&comments_per_page=50"
  created: '2006-08-18 05:54:43'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">That\u2019s taxation. It\u2019s just not funded by the general public purse
    or by income taxes (rather, it\u2019s more regressive than an income tax).\r\n\r\nNo,
    it is paying for a commodity, admittedly it becomes a levy if you wish to own
    a television but we do have a choice to opt out.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-08-18 10:16:37'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "timd,\r\n\r\nIt's public finance 101. You can't opt out, because the goods
    are lumped together. If you own a TV only to watch DVD or Al Jazeera, you still
    pay the BBC."
  created: '2006-08-18 13:00:39'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "William,\r\n\r\nBut that is the sort of pseudo-intellectual talk college
    kids engage in to impress at parties after the third week of political science
    -- only Hrant doesn't cite references. \r\n\r\nThe more troubling aspect is the
    prejudice. It's the story told in Genesis 4: Kin'aa leads to Sin'aa, and Sin'aa
    can lead to violence."
  created: '2006-08-18 13:07:11'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Not owning a television <em>is</em> opting out, it might not be for everyone
    but if you don't want a television and, for example, use the internet or listen
    to the radio or watch dvds on computer then you get the available content without
    charge, however accuracy doesn't seem to be part of this dialogue.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-08-18 13:37:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">talk college kids engage in to impress at parties\r\n\r\nTypequake, I gave
    you the reference so you could see for yourself. As you can see from my discussion--which
    I don't want to repeat--I think Hrant's political views are extremely misguided.
    \r\n\r\nI agree with you--and the Biblical story--that jealousy and zeal (it is
    interesting that the Hebrew terms are the same word) can lead to hatred and then
    to violence.  "
  created: '2006-08-18 15:26:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This sounds <cite>very</cite> familiar...\r\n(Oh, and I think you <cite>really</cite>
    need a proper word for zeal.)\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW, something more on-topic: it's
    interesting how Hzballa is\r\nredefining what a guerilla movement can be, for
    example in\r\nterms of visual language / graphic design. Look at the middle\r\nof
    the tape in this photo:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/shared/spl/hi/pop_ups/06/in_pictures_in_the_rubble_of_southern_beirut_____/html/12.stm\r\n\r\nTheir
    (perceived, and admittedly partial) victory has a logo!\r\nFrame 9 is also interesting,
    especially how the prominent typo\r\nhas somehow not pervented them from getting
    the other attri-\r\nbutes (like the distinctive placement of the lines) right.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-18 16:01:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "More elaboration on the fascinating \"We will use your best\r\nweapons against
    you (even the ones that don't kill)\" angle:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/middle_east/5262832.stm\r\n\r\nDon't
    miss the panorama.\r\nIn contrast: \"Woe is me, I had to spend time in\r\na shelter,
    and my friend's cousin's brother-in-law\r\nhad to be hospitalized! Zis iz teghogh,
    I tell you!\"\r\nAnd then Barak tells Siniora not to complain.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-18 16:36:42'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "Speaking of typos, the Iranian Holocaust cartoon competition started. \"Visitors
    are greeted by a poster and the word 'Holocust' in huge letters, with no explanation
    offered for the misspelling.\"\r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://www.canada.com/nationalpost/news/archives/story.html?id=c40d3504-eee2-468d-9987-14a930a59821\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-18 16:38:13'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "Since you insist on BBC, I should point out the \"languages\" link on the
    left. It shows all the languages of the middle-east (including your favourite
    Turkish) except Hebrew. Why? Because of the bias; because the BBC sucks up to
    a particular kind of reader.\r\n\r\nBy the way, the ridicule of the accent adds
    particular charm to your antisemitic content."
  created: '2006-08-18 17:25:26'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/middle_east/2036879.stm\r\n\r\nMaybe you'd prefer
    this, you know it is biased, they might even have an agenda.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-08-18 17:53:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yeah, the BBC isn't allowed to worry about money,\r\nonly those who already
    have a lot of it can do that.\r\nParticular kind of reader? Yeah, non-global-tyrants.\r\nI
    understand, it's quite annoying to read expositions\r\nof your misdeeds. Better
    just tune into Seinfeld.\r\n\r\nBTW, you should really move to the US, you've
    learned the\r\nrhetorical tricks of suppressing dissent quite well! Oh when\r\nwill
    I learn to demonize the Common Enemy, and never ever\r\npoint out defficiencies
    in God's Country or the Chosen People?\r\n\r\n\"Look at me, cruel world, look
    at meeeee - my knee is all scratched up!!\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-18 18:04:04'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "If you were not so blinded by hate, you would realize that Israeli media
    is highly critical (as I am) of Israel's policies, sometimes more so than the
    BBC. You're welcome to read Ha'aretz English edition. You might enjoy reading
    intelligent reporting that fairly presents both sides of the dillema.\r\n\r\nHere's
    the first piece of news for you: it is possible to criticize Israel's operations
    and still acknowledge the role of fundamental Islam in promoting terrorism and
    barbarism against infidels, democracy, and women. If the Hezbollah kidnapped the
    two soldiers from Israeli territory as an anti-global protest, it sure kept its
    motives secret.\r\n\r\nAs for rhetoric, who are you to complain?"
  created: '2006-08-18 18:56:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"Blinded by hate\", \"anti-Semite\", \"Islamist terrorist\", ad nauseam.
    In the US (where you truly belong, honestly) the only Officially Valid defense
    against such accusations are things like \"No, YOU are an anti-Semite!\" Any attempt
    at explaining that you don't agree with Hitler (or even little Gibson), that you
    don't think anybody is entirely innocent, etc. can only result in further persecution.
    Dissent isht verboten - hail Dollar!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-18 19:09:55'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "Come now, don't roll on the ground and play dead. You already tipped your
    hand by making references to Jewish money controlling US media, and, in particular,
    as agents of global capitalism. These themes have been thoroughly explored since
    the Protocols.\r\n\r\nSee? You don't have to be a Nazi (which you are not) to
    be a bigot (which you are). As for the term \"antisemite\", we can have different
    definitions and that's ok.\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-18 19:31:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yeah, you figured me out. My WIFE OF ELEVEN YEARS hasn't yet, but you,\r\nyou're
    Special. In fact, you guys have figured out everybody: they all fit in nice\r\nlittle
    boxes - one white, one black. And yeah, everything is OK as long as you can\r\nkeep
    raping the meek.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-18 19:44:28'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "Like I said, who are you to complain about rhetoric.\r\n\r\nI'll do what
    you refuse to do, i.e., address your post (I won't capitalize unnecessarily):\r\n\r\nI
    haven't figured you out, I don't even know you. All I am doing is pointing out
    what you said and drawing the appropriate, logical conclusions.\r\n\r\nYou on
    the other hand, complain that I try to pigeonhole you, but you have no problem
    writing about ME raping the meek and about MY misdeeds. If you think I am personally
    responsible for anything from my seat in Toronto, you're insane. If you think
    I'm guilty by association, then you are, in fact, a racist bigot.\r\n\r\nThis
    just adds to your hypocrisy. No wonder your wife can't figure you out."
  created: '2006-08-18 19:54:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The ambiguity of the English \"you\" is one of the few good things your\r\nlanguage
    has going for it, and you insist on demoting it - tsk tsk tsk...\r\n\r\nBut this
    next bit is indeed specifically about you: if you vote, you're responsible. And
    if you vote in a system that's guaranteed to pursue militarism, no matter which
    beast ends up in the white building, you're not a civilian.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-18 20:04:04'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: Ok, clear up the ambiguity; let's hear what you, Hrant, meant by "you" in
    "everything is OK as long as you can keep raping the meek."
  created: '2006-08-18 20:15:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I didn't think \"ambiguity\" itself would be ambiguous!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-18 20:30:44'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: You are a sphinx without a secret. You won't answer because you cannot.
  created: '2006-08-18 22:05:38'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Speaking of \"radicalism\" - much of which is caused not by the radicals
    themselves, but by other right-wing governments interested in resources and markets
    in which they are not welcome (except at the behest of the well-fed upper classes
    of said markets), but I digress . . . \r\n\r\nMention \"terrorist\" or \"Islamic
    fundamentalist\" in a room full of your average business crowd, and you'll get
    nods of approval followed by head-shaking and epithets of \"animals\" and \"bastards.\"
    \r\n\r\nMention \"Zionism\" in the same room (Israel's own version of American
    neo-conservatism - yes, they *do* exist) and you'll get your head bitten off.\r\n\r\nOn
    the one hand you have the Islamic terrorist, and on the other you've got the Zionist
    conservative element in Israel (and America.) To be fair, neither is really any
    better than the other, and both most certainly deserve each other. But one side,
    at least, needs to begin to make concessions. Any takers?   \r\n\r\nHere's a little
    brain-teaser I like to throw out there sometimes: \"The American Invasion of South
    Vietnam.\" It's there. You just have to look for it. But no one said it'll be
    pleasant. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-19 00:26:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Mention \u201CZionism\u201D in the same room (Israel\u2019s own version
    of American neo-conservatism - yes, they *do* exist) and you\u2019ll get your
    head bitten off.\r\n\r\nChristian, you are misinformed. Zionism in general does
    not refer to any particular political ideology. As the Wikipedia puts it, I think
    accurately: \"Since the founding of the State of Israel, the term Zionism is generally
    considered to mean support for Israel as a Jewish nation state.\"\r\n\r\nYou are
    entitled to your opinion, but I strongly disasgree that of those who want Israel
    as a nation state and the terrorists who want to destroy it are \"neither better
    than other.\" Israel was founded by the Western powers through the vote of the
    UN as a place of refuge for the Jews after WW II. This conferred some legitimacy
    on it at the start. The local populace didn't vote, but after repeated wars to
    exterminate Israel, which they lost, and expulsion of Jews from Arab countries,
    at some point Israel is legitimate any way you look at it, in my opinion. And
    by the way it is the ancestral home of the Jews, and Hebrew is the ancient local
    language of the area--not Arabic, which comes from the outside Arab imperial conquerers.
    \r\n\r\nIn my view Israel made a big mistake in building settlements scattered
    around the West Bank and Gaza. But this does not change the most fundamental aspect
    of the situation. Both Hamas and Hezbollah have the declared aim of exterminating
    the Jewish state. And they celebrate terror attacks to do it. Recently, Israel
    pulled completely out of Gaza and earlier out of Lebanon. And the government announced
    its intention to pull out of most of the West Bank. The response has been completely
    unprovoked indiscriminate attacks on civilians as well as soldiers by Hamas and
    Hezbollah. \r\n\r\nThere has been great suffering on all sides in the middle east,
    and wrongs have been committed by both sides. But as one Israeli leader put it,
    \"There is a difference between the arsonist and the firefighter.\" They are not
    morally equivalent. Israel has demonstrated with both Egypt and Jordan that as
    soon as its neighbors  are willing to live in peace, Israel makes peace, and keeps
    it.\r\n\r\nShabbat Shalom "
  created: '2006-08-19 01:14:01'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<strong>Out of curiousity, what is an Arab (not the horse) worth these days?
    I mean, <em>honestly</em>.\r\n\r\nMathematically (in regards to current events)
    it's 1 jew= 10 arabs. [I throw in damage to infra structure and refugees for free].
    \r\n\r\nAnd what is <em>Your</em> life worth? Are You Canadian? American? European
    (and if so North or South European, <em>please?</em>) Should it be up to David
    Byrne to do an artful \t<a href=\"http://www.davidbyrne.com/art/eeei/index.php\">powerpoint
    presentation</a> of the actual <em>worth</em> of people on Typophile or do we
    have an ambitious soul among us?\r\n</strong>\r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2006-08-19 01:55:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, that's more hogwash than not. And you <cite>don't</cite> know it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-19 02:41:01'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "Thanks, William,\r\n\r\nPalatine, The equation is not zionism and terrorists,
    it is Israel and its Arab neighbours. Israelis dream to peacefully coexist with
    Arabs within and without. The majority of Israelis currently believe the solution
    lies in territorial compromises, and like  William pointed out, clearing the settlements
    (this process has begun). Other Israelis question the wisdom of this, given that
    past concessions did not put an end to terrorism. They are, in my opinion, in
    the wrong, but at least Israel is an open society were these ideas are debated.\r\n\r\nThe
    Arab neighbours are not all ready for peace. Egypt and Jordan are on board, but
    Assad of Syria in a speech this week called for the destruction of Israel. The
    Iranian position is well known and the two countries have been funding Hezbollah.\r\n\r\nI
    am sorry if you view terrorists as the moral equivalent. They have been engaged
    in murder and violence against Israelis and Peace-seeking Arabs -- soldiers and
    civilians.\r\n\r\nAnti-semitism IS an important part of the pro-Hezbollah sentiment.
    President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela recently siad this: (CONT)"
  created: '2006-08-19 02:59:09'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "(CONT from last post):\r\n\r\nHugo Chavez: \"I just finished reading early
    this morning the latest report from the United Nations about the world situation,
    and it's alarming because it says that today more than ever before, 2005 years
    after they killed Jesus Christ, because the world, the world, is worsening every
    day, every day, the riches of the world, because God, nature provides, the world
    has sufficent water for those who need water, the world has sufficent riches,
    land sufficient to produce foodstuffs for the entire world population, the world
    has sufficient stone and minerals for construction, so that there is no shortage
    for anyone who is living. The world has these things for all, sure, but because
    of some minorities, the decendents of those same people who killed Christ, the
    decendents of the same people who fought Bolivar, and also those who crucified
    them in Santa Marta, over in Colombia. A minority that has seized the riches of
    the world, a minority that has seized the gold of the planet, the silver, the
    minerals, the water, the good land, the oil, all these riches, well, and they
    have concentrated the riches in only a few hands\"\r\n\r\nSoon after, Chavez and
    Khatami of Iran met: http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/articles/A35193-2005Mar14.html\r\n\r\nAll
    they need is Hrant for a group hug -- would you like to join?"
  created: '2006-08-19 03:02:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The hogwash ratio is rocketing up up up! Pigs on parade.\r\n\r\nThis just
    goes to prove the old maxim that you need\r\nincreasingly bigger lies to cover
    for previous lies.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-19 03:14:16'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: Despite your ego, something isn't hogwash just because your Hrantship says
    it is. You have to actually prove it.
  created: '2006-08-19 03:22:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, no, no, you don't have to prove it, you just need\r\nto show it on US
    television, then you can bomb away!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-19 03:53:20'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "USTV > your level of argument.\r\n\r\nWilliam and I wrote something we honestly
    believe in. If you disagree, you should have the integrity to try and refute our
    position. What you have been doing this past couple of days is engage in childish
    \"is too! is not!\" with a thesaurus."
  created: '2006-08-19 04:24:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey, I already said I've given up arguing with people like you,\r\nin favor
    of ridiculing you, and that at least I explained why.\r\nYou see, I've been watching
    a lot of CNN (not even Fox) lately,\r\nand the bias has really become very pronounced,
    and institu-\r\ntionalized - it's really fully hermetic. I can't compete with
    that.\r\nIn fact no outside force can do anything it seems. You guys will\r\nsimply
    have to implode I guess. We'll be waiting.\r\n\r\nBut no thesaurus, ever - don't
    like, don't need.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-19 05:09:52'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "\"people like you\" -- at least it's clear which group you are referring
    to. \r\nIt's a shame you didn't even try: you would have found an honest exchange
    more productive. As for the ridicule, I think what you wrote here will remain
    as self-ridicule for as long as this forum is searchable.\r\n\r\nGood night."
  created: '2006-08-19 05:37:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Mention \u201CZionism\u201D in the same room (Israel\u2019s own version
    of American neo-conservatism - yes, they *do* exist) and you\u2019ll get your
    head bitten off.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm going to take issue with this because I think
    it is important to understand how the conservative element in Israel came to the
    forefront, and how this differs from much of the social and political impetus
    of the Zionist project beginning in the 19th century. Whatever criticism one wants
    to make about Zionism, it cannot be equated with American neo-conservatism. For
    most of its history, the social and political aspect of Zionism was a predominantly
    left wing, both before the creation of the state of Israel and in the history
    of that state up until 1973. The anarcho-collectivist kibbutz movement was for
    very many years the clich\xE9 of Zionist organisation. Israeli politics was dominated
    by the Labour party from 1948 until 1973. It is also worth noting that while the
    USA gave aid money to Israel during those years, the amount of money and trade
    benefits it gave to Israel was not significantly different from what it gave to
    many other countries.\r\n\r\nIn the late 1960s and early 1970s, the Soviet Union
    actively courted governments in Syria, Egypt and other Arab states, selling them
    weaponry at low cost and offering them beneficial trade arrangements and aid money.
    The USA, fearing a Soviet sphere of influence covering much of the Middle East,
    determined that it needed to have a stronger presence in the region. After the
    1967 war, it became clear to the Americans that Israel was their best bet as an
    anti-Soviet ally in the Middle East. The 1973 Yom Kippur war was a proxy fight
    of the Cold War, betwen Soviet sponsored Arabs states and US backed Israelis.
    As a result of the war, the Israeli economy was badly damaged and needed support
    from the US. The ascendancy of the conservative, right wing element in Israeli
    politics stems from this time, as does America's huge investment in Israel as
    a major ally. This investment is roughly the same in real terms, by the way, as
    the aid and trade benefits the US gives to South Korea, which demonstrates that
    US support for Israel is a strategic one and not a result of the American Jewish
    lobby group."
  created: '2006-08-19 08:16:23'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "    SSSSSSSSSS\r\nSSSSSSSSSSSSSS\r\nSssss        sssssS\r\n  Ssssss\r\n    sssssss\r\n
    \     sssssssss\r\n           ssssssss\r\n                SSSSSS\r\n Sssss      ssssss\r\n
    \  ssssssssssss\r\n       sssssssshhhhhhhhhhhhh, It's Sabbath."
  created: '2006-08-19 12:20:46'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "dberlow:\r\n\r\nPerfect timing! \r\n\r\nWilliam, John, et al . . . I'm glad
    we're discussing this. I've been mulling over your responses and I'm certainly
    interested in continuing this on Monday. I don't think we'll be able to untie
    this complicated ball of string, but at least we can identify what bits we need
    to start with."
  created: '2006-08-19 12:49:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, the problem is much more than the money (which you further are not
    quantifying properly) the problem is the mindshare. CNN for example does not defend
    South Korea and does not attack North Korea with nearly the same totality and
    draconian detail as it does Israel and the Arabs*. Furthermore, if lobbying had
    no effect, the US wouldn't be <cite>run on it</cite>. Lastly, the Soviet Union
    is gone, and Russia's military threat is now not leveraged against Israel, but
    it's been getting much worse for Arabs, not better. Don't distract by placing
    original blame on the USSR. If you want to put most of the blame for the misery
    in the Middle East on a single country, put it on the UK, which, having had to
    give up first-hand imperialism, now acts as a henchman.\r\n\r\n* BTW, the collusion
    between the West and Israel starts\r\nfrom the get-go, not the 60s. Here's the
    sort of thing\r\nthis \"peace loving\" nation was doing early on:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/middle_east/5195068.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-19 14:28:57'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "Oh, so you can respond to John, but not to \"people like\" me. \r\n"
  created: '2006-08-19 15:43:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Because John is not a single-minded propagandist (although\r\nhis fealty
    to Catholicism can render him highly defensive).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-19 16:36:32'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: Everyone who disagrees with you is not single-minded, or you are the hermetic.
  created: '2006-08-19 19:26:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>BTW, the collusion between the West and Israel starts from the get-go,
    not the 60s. Here\u2019s the sort of thing this \u201Cpeace loving\u201D nation
    was doing early on...</em>\r\n\r\nYes, but markedly the Americans opposed Britain
    and France over Suez, refused to support or sanction it, and condemned the whole
    escapade, including Israel's part in it. The US voted in favour of the UN resolution
    calling for immediate withdrawal of Israeli, British and French troops from Egypt.\r\n\r\nAgain
    focusing on the Cold War origins of US foreign policy in the Middle East: during
    the Suez crisis, the USSR threatened to send troops to support the Egyptians.
    After the crisis, Eisenhower asked the US Congress to authorise the use of American
    military force <em>if requested</em> by any Middle Eastern nation (as well as
    a large sum of money for aid to countries in the region, to counter Soviet influence).
    The first application of this new US policy was in 1958, when Lebanon requested
    US forces to help quell a rebellion sponsored by Syria and Egypt.\r\n\r\nThe latter
    situation is a good example of Lebanon's persistent problem: as the smallest,
    militarily weakest and most internally diverse nation in the region it is prey
    to other countries exerting pressure on it (especially Syria, and now Iran), and
    has been for a very long time. Its situation is very similar to that of the Balkan
    states: fractured along religious lines, strategically important because of its
    coastline, and the regular battleground of proxy fights between larger countries
    that consistently undermine the fragile situation within the country. Syria, Egypt,
    Israel and now Iran have all been guilty of this."
  created: '2006-08-19 20:11:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the Americans opposed Britain and France over Suez\r\n\r\nWhich is why
    I wrote that Israel's collusion has been with the West, not the US (the former,
    like any complex entity, never being totally unified). And one could say the Suez
    incident was significant in another way: it most probably helped convince Israel
    to move its lobbying to the other side of the Atlantic.\r\n\r\n> as well as a
    large sum of money for aid to countries in the region\r\n\r\nThat can't be overstated.
    If they really wanted peace, the US\r\nand Israel could simply <cite>buy</cite>
    Hzballa's support from right under it.\r\n\r\n> <cite>if requested</cite> by any
    Middle Eastern nation\r\n\r\nHow pass\xE9...  :-/\r\n\r\nBTW, Syria's presence
    in Lebanon was also by invitation. They did however overstay it. Even though,
    and this never gets mentioned in the superpower's media, it is Syria that deserves
    credit for stopping the 17-year civil war, in spite of all the external sabotaging*.
    As to your characterization of Lebanon, there's some truth to it, but it's also
    inaccurate in important ways. In spite of everything (or maybe <cite>due</cite>
    to everything) there is a great sense of unity in the country**. And when you
    claim that Syria exerts the most pressure on Lebanon, I would point out that it
    was not Syria that caused billions of dollars of damage in one month, in the process
    killing both a greater number <cite>and a greater proportion</cite> of civilians
    than Hzballa could ever dream of. Somebody said terrorism?\r\n\r\n* For example,
    the car bomb was invented by Israel, being first delpoyed in the early years of
    the civil war. And subsequently being responsible for about 1/3-rd of the ~250
    car bombs that went off over the years. That (and other things) can make you wonder
    about the Hariri assassination...\r\n\r\n** Compare Lebanon to Jordan, where more
    than 60% of the\r\npopulation thinks its peace treaty with Israel is an outrage.
    You\r\nguys want democracy? Now we know why: setting up more wars.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-19 20:49:48'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: The main point is that Israel and Egypt have settled their differences. It
    will take more than a generation for mutual trust to be built -- after all the
    dispute is relatively young. For some people, however, Israel would be damned
    whether it holds the sword or the olive branch.
  created: '2006-08-19 21:15:18'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> BTW, Syria\u2019s presence in Lebanon was also by invitation.\r\n\r\nBy
    whom? Rafiq al-Hariri? \r\n\r\n\r\n>  it is Syria that deserves credit for stopping
    the 17-year civil war,\r\n\r\nIf Syria is Saudi Arabia; yes, they brokered the
    Taif Agreement in 1989."
  created: '2006-08-19 21:37:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Syria was invited by the government of Lebanon. And guess who applauded the
    decision: the US... and Israel! BTW, Hariri wasn't as staunchly anti-Syrian as
    you might think. Plus you might be surprised how ambivalent most Lebanese (I mean
    beyond the Shee'a) were about him... until he got killed. As we say in Armenian:
    \"Kna merir, yegour sirem\" - \"Go die, come let me love you\". Everybody leveraged
    his killing, and distorted his past life, to further their own ends. You should
    have seen the abrupt \"policy shift\" that some leaders went through - puts Tschichold
    to shame.\r\n\r\nSaudi Arabia? That was the hotel where the delegates stayed.
    It's telling that you've been made to believe Saudi Arabia deserves any credit
    (beyond sending big-spending tourists to Lebanon lately). It was the patience,
    persistence and cleverness (and yes, to some extent dastardliness) of Syria that
    allowed it to see the war through, and impose a Pax Romana. Not the ideal outcome,
    but better than anything anybody else had managed. Hariri wouldn't have spent
    his and Lebanon's billions to rebuild everything without it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-19 23:13:45'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> it is Syria that deserves credit for stopping the 17-year civil war,\r\n\r\n>It
    was the patience, persistence and cleverness (and yes, to some extent dastardliness)
    of Syria that allowed it to see the war through,\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nOr, let's put
    that way:\r\n Husayn al-Husayni from Ba`albak, the key architects of the Taif
    Agreement (and one  of the founders of the Amal Movement;  forced to leave it
    by Hafez al-Asad since he didn't want to cooperate with the PLO.)\r\n\r\nAs al-Husayni
    said  ( the real life vs. the original Taif): \"What is being implemented is neither
    the Taif agreement nor the constitution\".\r\n\r\n\r\nMoreover, Albert Mansur
    (defense minister in the first cabinet formed after Taif)  wrote a  book about
    this issue, and like al-Husayni, I don't think that he saw Syria as clever....
    or that Syria is willing to see Lebanon as an Independent country.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-20 00:10:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Only Lebanon wants to see Lebanon as an independent country.\r\nBut some
    countries are more cavalier than others about massacring civilians.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-20 00:27:02'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: For example, Syria massacring 10,000-25,000 civilians in Hama (numbers according
    to Amnesty) in 1982.
  created: '2006-08-20 02:47:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"We kill more people by 8AM than most countries do in a year.\"\r\nUS Armed
    Forces\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-20 02:56:47'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: Most, but apparently not all.
  created: '2006-08-20 02:59:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"The good old U S of A, founded on genocide and damn proud of it too!\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-20 03:17:51'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: "> If you want to put most of the blame for the misery in the Middle East
    on a single country, put it on the UK\r\n\r\nI think this book gives a quite interesting
    account of Britain's role in the creation of the Middle East:\r\n\r\nDavid Fromkin:\r\nA
    Peace to End All Peace. The Fall of the Ottoman Empire \r\nand the Creation of
    the Modern Middle East\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0805068848/sr=8-1/qid=1156074679/ref=pd_bbs_1/103-2241638-3990239?ie=UTF8"
  created: '2006-08-20 13:09:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>If you want to put most of the blame for the misery in the Middle East
    on a single country, put it on the UK</em>\r\n\r\nIronically, that is exactly
    the impression that it was German policy to propagate following vol Moltke's return
    to Germany from service to the Ottoman sultanate. As the Kaiser said, 'Our consuls
    and agents must inflame the entire Muslim world against this hateful, lying, and
    unscrupulous nation [England]'. So even if one does seek to put the blame for
    the situation in the Middle East on one country -- and the UK certainly deserves
    a lot of blame -- , one ends up involving other countries in that process. And
    of course the German involvement continued after the collapse of both the Ottoman
    empire and the German crown. Lebanese Christian crypto-fascists and the Moslem
    Mufti of Jerusalem were both welcomed to Berlin by Hitler and given financial
    support. Egyptian 'green shirts' of the Young Egypt party modelled themselves
    on the German Nazi party and provided intelligence to the Germans during WWII.
    Sami al-Jundi, one of the founders of the Baathist movement in Syria and Iraq,
    had <em>Mein Kampf</em> translated into Arabic, and along with Saddam Hussein's
    uncle, Khairallah Tulfah, was open about describing themselves as 'racists, admiring
    Nazism, reading its books and the source of its thoughts'. With funding from Adolf
    Eichmann, the Mufti organised pogroms against the Jews in Palestine in the 1930s
    and '40s. After the German defeat in 1945, Nazi war criminals resurfaced in the
    Middle East, where they were protected and employed in training security, police
    and armed forces in Arab states.\r\n\r\nSo trying to pin the blame for the misery
    in the Middle East on any one country is both simplistic and fails to stand up
    to historical scrutiny."
  created: '2006-08-20 22:01:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Which is why I complained about your spin -perhaps unintended- against the
    USSR. But even if one realizes that it's not -and never- all one entity's fault*,
    one can still put a <cite>wollop</cite> (not just \"a lot\") of blame on the UK.
    On the other hand, one can also be less historically hung-up... and put a wollop
    of blame on the US for picking up the imperialist torch, if with less finesse,
    certainly with more ammo.\r\n\r\n* For example: Which country adopted the most
    Nazi scientists after the war?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-21 00:36:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I certainly didn't intend a 'spin' against the USSR. My point was that the
    specifics of the political situation in the Middle East are in many ways a product
    of the Cold War, as <em>both</em> the US and USSR vied for influence in the region,
    armed opposing proxy armies, and dumped a large amount of 'aid' money, much of
    which went into the pockets of corrupt Arab officials. The latter is worth drawing
    attention to because the corruption of Arab leaders has directly contributed to
    the rise of militant Islamist movements within those countries, whose governments
    need to direct anger and resentment outwards -- at Israel and at the USA -- if
    they are to survive themselves. Would Hamas be where it is if not for the corruption
    of Fatah and the PLO leadership?
  created: '2006-08-21 02:37:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Would Hamas be where it is (in Israeli jails*) if the West hadn't\r\nmade
    democracy a precondition to treating the Palestinians like\r\nhuman beings? And
    this result was all planned. As was this recent\r\nLebanon battle: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/4792961.stm\r\n\r\n*
    http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/middle_east/5269108.stm\r\n\r\nAs the US knows from
    its internal affairs, it's very easy to\r\npredict the behavior of peons; and
    if you play your cards\r\nright you can make them fall into the same trap, every
    time.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nAs always, the responsability falls at the feet of those
    with\r\nthe power; and the Arabs don't have much of it. Look instead to\r\nthe
    country with 200+ illegal nuclear warheads ready to go.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-21 04:23:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Also, in the useful meaning of the term \"corrupt\", a goverment\r\nthat
    runs on the basis of financial lobbying is much more corrupt\r\nthan a system
    that merely steals some of the money as it's moving\r\naround. BTW, do you know
    what has been the most corrupt Lebanese\r\ngovernment to date? Hariri's. And nevermind
    the rampant corruption\r\nin Israeli politics and business, which gets almost
    no coverage in US\r\nmedia for some <cite>odd</cite> reason...\r\n\r\nAnd westerners
    like to complain that many non-western countries suffer from bribery and such.
    But they fail to realize that they have bribery too, it's just much more expensive
    to engage in it, and you have to fill out forms. The differences are essentially
    those of scale and culture. Bigots always see difference as equating to inferiority
    - when all they really have to do is learn a different system. All you have is
    formalized, legalized corruption and bribery. That's <cite>worse</cite>, not better.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-21 04:38:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Check out the last two paragraphs in the \"Possible military action\" section
    here:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/middle_east/5271574.stm\r\n\r\nSo I have to
    wonder, who's using Hzballa as a tool, Iran or Israel? When this battle broke
    out, Israel claimed that Iran had timed things to avoid being talked about at
    the G8 summit. Well, if Israel really wanted the G8 to talk about Iran all they
    had to do is wait a couple of days before massively escalating the incident...
    And nobody should be shocked if it turns out that those two soldiers and their
    hapless fellows were paraded back-and-forth at the border until they were attacked.
    This is exactly the sort of thing that goes around in the Middle East and especially
    Lebanon* with Israel being the most skilled and well-endowed performer. Of course
    North Americans have been conveniently conditioned to exhibit a knee-jerk sarcastic
    denialism to these sorts of claims: \"Yeah, it's all a conspiracy, a bunch of
    rich people are meeting in caves to plan our doom, riiight.\" Livestock staring
    at their food instead of the abattoir hardware.\r\n\r\n* Another golden book recommendation:\r\n\"From
    Beirut to Jerusalem\" by Th L Friedman, 1990.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-21 18:57:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Welcome back, Hrant. \r\n\r\nHere on Typophile, you issue reams of invective
    against Israel and the US. \r\n\r\nHowever, you never say whether you agree or
    disagree with Iran, Hezbullah and Hamas that Israel as a Jewish nation-state is
    illegitimate and should be eliminated, wiped off the map. \r\n\r\nI wonder why
    your silence on this key point?\r\n\r\nJust curious. "
  created: '2006-08-21 19:31:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "First of all, it's inherent in politics that formal statements are made for
    popular consumption. When Bush makes his grandiose statements, do <cite>you</cite>
    believe him? No you don't. Humans are not black-and-white, they just act that
    way sometimes to get a better deal. The absolutist huffing-and-puffing from both
    sides during the formulation of resolution 1701 was simply negotiation.\r\n\r\nPoliticians
    get popular support by appearing strong, and they don't get radical support if
    the people are not unhappy about the status quo. Nobody would give a crap about
    Nasralla if Arabs as a whole didn't feel that the West and Israel are trying -and
    largely succeeding- in subjugating them. Slogans by definition have to be more
    polarizing than anybody really thinks is possible, or sometimes even desirable.
    Ergo: if Israel concedes enough, Arab warmongering would melt away. You would
    be left with a somewhat smaller country, but without katyoushas and worldwide
    vengeful hate directed at you. And you'd still have the region's most powerful
    military (and 200+ nuclear bombs) to protect <cite>legitimate and just</cite>
    borders. But Israel isn't really prepared to concede anything; the withdrawal
    from Lebanon in 2000 was done to escape Hzballa attacks on the IDF (and not as
    Israel claims to abide by some UN resolution - Israel has unconcealed disdain
    for the UN), and the \"concession\" in Gaza was nothing more than an experiment
    running a large open-air jail.\r\n\r\nIn any case, even if you think Arabs can
    never be appeased (even though anybody who's lived among Arabs will tell you they're
    one of the most accomodating peoples around) you still shouldn't use the mere
    words of your enemy as a true indication of what they <cite>expect</cite> to be
    able to achieve - what they would be satisfied with in the end. That's either
    simple-mindedness, or demagogy.\r\n\r\n> I wonder why your silence on this key
    point?\r\n\r\nHow conveniently you forget: I have said many times that Israel
    needs to exist\r\n(and it needs to exist in that area). It's just that -crazy
    thought, I know- it also\r\nneeds to <cite>behave</cite>; behave as a member of
    this planetary family, instead of seeing itself as a special, persecuted loner.
    Not because there is no truth to that, but simply because the future of Jewish
    children depends on it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-21 20:31:32'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "\"And nobody should be shocked if it turns out that those two soldiers and
    their hapless fellows were paraded back-and-forth at the border until they were
    attacked.\"\r\n\r\nAnother conspiracy theory. For six years Israel waited for
    the opportunity to have its soldiers kidnapped? So it can release hundreds of
    prisoners as it did in previous trades? It's pure speculation based on prejudice.
    \r\n\r\nIt's alarming how you are willingness to believe the worst of Israel and
    the converse from the Hezbollah. In fact, Israel has a tradition of doing everything
    to avoid loss of its soldiers, while terrorists engaged in suicide to attain their
    ends.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-21 22:22:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I have said many times that Israel needs to exist\r\n\r\nWell, I would be
    surprised if you could find a link in which you say that. On the other hand I
    am an old guy and may have forgot...\r\n\r\nIn any case I am pleased to hear it,
    and it is interesting to me. If Israel needs to exist, then  it has the right
    to self-defense. And it is obvious that the government of Israel cannot wave away
    the threats of extermination as bargaining exaggeration, as you seem to. After
    all, they have been backed by an over fifty year war of mainly terror attacks,
    but also some major battles, including the massive attempt to strangle Israel
    in the cradle, so to speak, in 1948. When a government regularly has citizens
    being killed, many of them children, it cannot afford to underestimate the enemy.
    \r\n\r\nSo why you can you never find any good thing to say about the actions
    of Israel or the US, nor any bad things to say about the Syrians, Hezbullah, Hamas,
    etc? Is it so important to you to always flatter and support the most radical
    views in the Arab world? "
  created: '2006-08-21 23:04:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I can, and I do. But underdogs always need more help. And this is why most
    of the world sides with the Arabs: people admire power, but when it's abused (especially
    when it's done under the guise of self-defense) things turn quickly to revulsion.
    Plus as an Armenian I naturally feel a brotherhood with Palestinians, American
    Indians, etc.\r\n\r\nAnd although we might discuss what \"radical\" means (you
    probably classify my rejection of democracy as such, but I think it's just plain
    logic and sense) you can't accuse me of supporting Arab radicalism (and you can't
    pretend Jewish radicalism doesn't exist) because I believe the world needs Arabs
    and Jews to share that land, and share it fairly enough to quell radicalism.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-21 23:25:51'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "\"The Autumn of the Autocrats\"\r\n\r\nBy Professor Fouad Ajami -- Johns
    Hopkins University.\r\n\r\nForeign Affairs, May/June 2005\r\n\r\nhttp://www.foreignaffairs.org/20050501faessay84304-p0/fouad-ajami/the-autumn-of-the-autocrats.html\r\n\r\n\r\nLater
    on (today or this weekend) the new article about Hamas"
  created: '2006-08-22 00:18:23'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "\"But underdogs always need more help. And this is why most of the world
    sides with the Arabs\"\r\n\r\n\r\nHmmm..."
  created: '2006-08-22 00:35:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Ergo: if Israel concedes enough, Arab warmongering would melt away.</em>\r\n\r\nFrom
    the same logic, though, it follows that in order to encourage Israeli concessions,
    its opponents would reduce warmongering in response to concessions until, presumably,
    concessions have increased to the point your envisage and the warmongering has
    melted away.\r\n\r\nThere are a number of historical problems with this theory.
    The first is that, taking your own statement that 'Israel needs to exist (and
    it needs to exist in that area)' we can perhaps set a minimum size of territory
    for Israel to occupy, a size which constitutes a viable state and which would
    be an acceptable concession to the Arabs. What is that minimum size? In order
    to be a viable state, it probably needs to be larger or at least more contiguous
    than that specified in the UN partition plan in 1948 (using the same criteria
    for a viable state now being applied by many people in discussing a possible Palestinian
    state). But let's ignore the viability issue for a moment, and consider an Israeli
    state equivalent to the partition plan of 1948. What historical evidence is there
    to suggest that the Arabs would accept that? They certainly didn't accept it in
    1948. The situation in 2006 is surely different, as I'm sure you will be quick
    to point out, but it is different on the basis of repeated Israeli defeat of aggression
    from Arab states, to the point where those states have given up on open warfare
    with Israel. This leads to the second observation, which is that the war being
    waged against Israel by non-state forces such as Hezbollah, Hamas, Al Aqsa, etc.
    has repeatedly increased in response to Israeli concessions, which are clearly
    taken as signs of weakness to be exploited. As your own statements reflect, there
    is an unwillingness to accept actions by the Israelis as a concession. You see
    the withdrawal from Gaza as an exercise in running an open prison; there are plenty
    of Israelis who see it as an exercise in making it easier for Hamas to lauch rocket
    and mortar attacks into southern Israel, make cross border raids to kill and kidnap
    Israelis, etc. I have little doubt that both views are valid from the perspectives
    of the people who hold them. \r\n\r\nThis is a terrible and intractable situation,
    because neither side is encouraged to make any concessions, because neither has
    any reason to believe that the other side will reciprocate."
  created: '2006-08-22 02:45:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> What historical evidence is there to suggest that the Arabs would accept
    that?\r\n\r\nIt's about the future, not the past. They would accept it because
    it would be a godsend, at this point. They're desperate (and with good reason).
    How else do you think they get their young men <cite>and women</cite> to blow
    themselves up? And how else could they actually believe that Hzballa won this
    latest battle? Because it is in fact a small victory, the only kind they are allowed.\r\n\r\nThat
    they would accept it is not a matter of history, but of common sense. In the current
    circumstances, it would in fact be a great victory for the Arabs. Which is why
    it's probably too much to expect from the Jewish side, one of their great motivators
    being a fear of somehow letting down the Holocaust generation (but to the point
    of shortchanging the future generations, I feel).\r\n\r\nIntractable? There we
    agree. And it will remain so as long as the voting population of the superpower
    remains so one-sided. Another hope for real change however lies with China, when
    it overpowers the US (along the way demonstrating that democracy is not what prosperity
    -both material and cultural- really needs).\r\n\r\n> neither has any reason to
    believe that the other side will reciprocate.\r\n\r\nBut it remains, that the
    greater responsability for peace falls at\r\nthe feet of those with the greater
    power of making it a reality.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-22 03:54:58'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nI don't think the situation is intractable; rather, the world
    expects a quick and easy fix to a complex (and relatively new) dispute. More time
    is needed, probably decades."
  created: '2006-08-22 05:04:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">This is a terrible and intractable situation, because neither side is encouraged
    to make any concessions, because neither has any reason to believe that the other
    side will reciprocate.\r\n\r\nJohn, I don't see how this squares with the massive
    evidence that Israel has a lot of world pressure to make concessions, and has
    actually been willing to make concessions for the sake of peace. Israel gave up
    the Sinai for peace with Egypt. It also made peace with Jordan. \r\n\r\nIn 92,
    Israel agreed to a road map for withdrawal from the West Bank. And then Barak
    offered to pull out of most of the West Bank, and pulled out of Lebanon unilaterally.
    Sharon, the most aggressive and brutal of Israeli leaders, unilaterally pulled
    out of Gaza. Do all these count for nothing?\r\n \r\nIf we look at the response,
    it looks from where I stand that the Palestinians and Hezbullah have been the
    ones unwilling to concede that Israel has a right to even an inch of territory.
    After the road map, there was peace and a difficult process that was none the
    less moving forward. When Barak offered by far the best deal so far, Arafat walked
    away from the table and started a new wave of terror assaults against Israel.
    And Hezbullah continued cross-border assaults in spite of the withdrawal, and
    loudly trumpeted the destruction of Israel. After the unilateral withdrawal from
    Gaza, the response was continuing indescriminate assaults against Israeli civilians,
    and finally an attack on soldiers.    \r\n\r\nI think the facts show that the
    Israelis have been brutal fighters, but in fact are eager for peace. \r\n\r\nHrant,
    the policy of always being on the side of the underdog becomes immoral when the
    underdog is a serial murderer on the run. And more to the point is a terrorist.
    \r\n\r\nAlso the view that the Israel is not the underdog is, from a Jewish perspective,
    a myopic one. At the beginning, Israel would have been extinguished by Arab attacks
    from all sides, except that the various parties hesitated because they were quarreling
    about how to divide up the territory. This allowed Israel to arm. \r\n\r\nAfter
    this Israel, population now I think about 6 million, only has been able to survive
    against the Arabs, population 323 million, by turning itself into a modern Sparta,
    a state in which every adult is a trained and potentially active, determined soldier.
    And this only in combination with massive incompetence on the Arab side has kept
    it alive. In spite of this, the state was almost lost in the '73 war, according
    to many. \r\n\r\nNow we have Iran doing what much of the world thinks is developing
    nuclear weapons, and explicitly saying that it wants to wipe Israel off the map.
    And Hamas and Hezbullah echoing the same policy. I wish that 'Israel under seige'
    were imaginary, but it is an almost 60 year nightmare. "
  created: '2006-08-23 14:02:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You are no longer the underdog. Now you are the second\r\ngreatest source
    of terrorism in the world, after the US.\r\n\r\nSomebody said Amnesty?\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/middle_east/5276626.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-23 14:12:04'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "I said Amnesty. According to Amnesty, most Arabs and Moslems in the world
    are killed by their brethren. The numbers killed by Israel pale by comparison.
    It's also clear from Amnesty reports that most Arab and Moslem regimes are far
    worse violators of human rights. Thus, Israel does not have to be blemish-free
    to claim the moral superiority.\r\n\r\nHistory has not shown any nation to act
    purely when involved in bitter conflict, and I cannot imagine any country handling
    the situation with fewer casualties.\r\n\r\nSaying that Israel is \"the second
    greatest source of terrorism in the world, after the US\" might be provocative
    (and fun if your purpose is to agitate), but in a serious debate it casts doubt
    on the rest of your arguments."
  created: '2006-08-23 15:56:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"We will bring democracy to Iraq! In fact, technically we already have,
    from a\r\ncertain point of view. Yeah, that's it - we're actually winning the
    war on terror!\"\r\n\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/5277362.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-23 16:01:55'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: One doesn't have to accept US actions in Iraq wholesale to rebuff the terror
    accusation.
  created: '2006-08-23 16:46:03'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "http://www.nswas.com\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-24 04:32:10'
- author:
    name: Pank
  body: "what would one say to the statistics that over 1000 lebanese killed compared
    to under200 Isralis killes (over 100 being soldiers).\r\n\r\nThis seems a bnit
    unfair.\r\n\r\nAlso why did Israil stop the red cross from giving aid to the lebanese,
    why did they stop a supply boat going through after stating that the red cross
    would not be safe on the roads??? \r\n\r\nwhat possible justification is there
    for that???"
  created: '2006-08-24 07:19:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: William, I didn't say that Israel has not made concessions. I said that the
    current situation does not encourage them to make concessions, because the response
    to concessions has been increased attacks coupled with a denial that they even
    constitute concessions (as Hrant has demonstrated).
  created: '2006-08-24 07:47:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>This seems a bit unfair.</em>\r\n\r\nFair? The side with the largest
    amount of weapons and most advanced weaponry kills more people, and this has always
    been the case (which is not the same as saying that the side with the most advanced
    weaponry always wins). Modern weaponry is designed to kill huge numbers of people,
    and it is an apalling norm of modern warfare that civilian infrastructure is treated
    as a legitimate target. [The Falklands War in 1982 was probably the last conflict
    between modern armed forces in which neither side targeted civilians.]\r\n\r\nSpeaking
    of 'unfair': as many Lebanese have said in the past month, it wasn't fair for
    Hezbollah to unilaterally involve their country in a conflict with Israel. The
    extreme view is that of the Lebanese writer Michael Behe, who was cheering Israel
    on in the pages of the New Republic and castigating his government for its own
    failure to stop Hezbollah setting up a de facto separate state in southern Lebanon."
  created: '2006-08-24 08:03:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I demonstrate nothing. I am just me - I'm not even Arab.\r\nOf course Israel
    has made concessions. But they're small,\r\nand they're more than anulled by all
    the crimes it commits.\r\n\r\nIt's not the number, it's the <cite>proportion</cite>
    of civilians killed (both in Iraq and\r\nLebanon) that helps one see who is the
    more capable and willing terrorist.\r\n\r\nAs for the \"Hzballa started it\" stance,
    just like William's convenient latching on to official political proclamations,
    it's either simple-minded or an act of demagogy. Just like any other country Lebanon
    is not devoid of idiots, and in fact has more than its share of opportunists.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-24 14:07:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> what possible justification is there for that???\r\n\r\nFrom the Jewish
    perspective, the unspoken undercurrent justification is that the world is out
    to get them. The small aspect of truth in that is both dwarfed and amplified greatly
    by Israel's actions. A self-fulfilling prophecy.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-24 14:15:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the unwritten undercurrent justification is that the world is out to get
    them\r\n\r\nIsrael does not think that the US and Europe are out to get it. Nor
    Egypt nor Jordan. Nor even Palestinian leader Abu Abbas, whom they accept as a
    man of peace. They do think that Hezbullah and Hamas are out to get them. \r\n\r\nAre
    the Israelis deluded in thinking this? Well, let's look at the evidence. First
    both declare openly they are out to eliminate the Jewish state. Secondly they
    send terrorists across the border to attack innocent Jews going about their business.
    Thirdly they have regularly shot rockets from Gaza and Lebanon to kill Jewish
    civilians. \r\n\r\nAnd you, an Armenian, minimize open threats of 'ethnic cleansing',
    backed by actual violence! Shame on you, Hrant; you really ought to know better.
    \  \r\n\r\nIsrael had a perfect right to respond to these attacks. Whether the
    response was appropriate is a matter of legitimate debate. My friends in Israel
    said early in the effort that the government were fools to listen to Generals
    who didn't know what they were talking about. And now there are massive protests
    against the government in Israel for a what they think was a badly conceived and
    incompetently executed battle.\r\n\r\nThe basic dilemma that Israel faced is that
    it had no good options. Whether the Israeli counter-attack was just a sickening
    and needless loss of life on both sides, or a justified move, is in my opinion
    going to depend on the coming months, and whether we end up with a strengthened
    and peaceful Lebanon. My Israeli friends think that it is going to go from bad
    to worse. I am a bit more hopeful, but of course I have no idea.     "
  created: '2006-08-24 15:12:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I have no idea.\r\n\r\nI agree. Including concerning who continually blocks
    recognition\r\nof the Armenian Genocide in the US. Don't talk to me about shame.\r\n\r\nLike
    most people, you know what you want to know. You didn't even know\r\nthat Sharon
    was a war criminal until you found out via a <cite>type design</cite> forum.\r\n\r\nThe
    world thinks you're the [greater] problem. Deal with it.\r\nThe shrill whining
    only works in US - and not for much longer.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-24 15:30:47'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "If you search Ha'aretz English edition, you'll find a lead article of the
    weekend edition in which Israel's stance (and the Jewish world's) on the Armenian
    Genocide was debated--fiercly and critically. Perhaps you could stop your Own
    Shrill Whining and consider the pluralistic character of the Israeli society.
    It takes time to heal these wounds and to bring people around. Your style in incendiary,
    not helpful.\r\nFurther, it seems that your rage about the Armenian genocide shapes
    your view of middle-eastern affairs. Emotions, not facts or logic. It would seem
    that in spite of all the arguments you raise--some of which are valid--your position
    boils down to \"I am Armenian and therefore I side with the Arabs\".\r\nYou started
    this debate with your cryptic (but easily decoded) comments, and it took you dozens
    of posts to be explicit. Yet no one \"persecuted\" you. At worst you have been
    labelled a Jew-hater. But no worry, you too may come around."
  created: '2006-08-24 16:43:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Including concerning who continually blocks recognition\r\nof the Armenian
    Genocide in the US.\r\n\r\nWhat are you talking about? The largest Jewish denomination
    in the US, Reform Judaism, has <a href=\"http://urj.org/Articles/index.cfm?id=7312\">explicitly
    endorsed and lobbied for recognition</a> of the Armenian genocide. "
  created: '2006-08-24 16:55:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yeah, apartheid, pluralism, same thing. Your wall is so pretty, and your
    anti-Arab marriage laws so festive!\r\n\r\n> Israel\u2019s stance (and the Jewish
    world\u2019s) on the Armenian Genocide was debated\r\n\r\nHey, sounds just like
    Lebanon! \"We have no problem with you - we love you! That's <cite>exactly</cite>
    why we destroyed all your bridges, polluted your sea, and killed 1000+ civilians.\"
    Put words into action, if you mean them. \"It takes time, it all takes time...
    but IF YOU PINCH ME I'LL CUT YOUR BROTHER'S HEAD OFF BEFORE YOU'VE PUT YOUR HAND
    BACK IN YOUR POCKET, ARAB!!\"\r\n\r\nRage, say the barbarians.\r\nLook in the
    mirror - that's our only hope of stopping the lies.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-24 17:23:30'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "Did I say emotions, not logic?\r\n\r\nIsrael has no anti-Arab marriage laws.
    It simply failed to embrace civil marriage (to my mind, a big failure), and Jews
    are affected more than Arabs.\r\n\r\nAnd perhaps you care to read the article
    on the AG before you comment? Or are you hermetic to anything else than BBC?\r\n\r\nI
    hope your family doesn't get \"pinched\" by a missile carrying pellets and ball
    bearings designed to kill civilians since it cannot damage military equipment.
    \r\n\r\nPolluted the sea, really?! How disproportionate! (I am still searching
    the map for the \"Lebanese sea\".)"
  created: '2006-08-24 18:06:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Hmmm. Is the fact that American Jews have lobbied for the recognition of
    the Armenian Genocide--starting 17 years ago--information that the HHP operating
    system is having great difficulty processing? Stay tuned :)  '
  created: '2006-08-24 20:57:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Be careful that smile doesn't impede the lying-through-the-teeth.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-24 20:59:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: You are taking this way too seriously Hrant. Neither of us is going to make
    a damn bit of difference on these great issues. Have a nice day :)
  created: '2006-08-24 21:10:29'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "http://www.chgs.umn.edu/Histories__Narratives__Documen/Armenian_Genocide/Public_Petitions/public_petitions.html\r\n\r\nhttp://www.thejewishadvocate.com/this_weeks_issue/news/?content_id=1327"
  created: '2006-08-24 21:11:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Show me the money [trail].\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-24 21:30:20'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "William, David,\r\n\r\nAs Mr. Banks said to Mrs. Banks, \"Kindly do not attempt
    to cloud the issue with facts.\""
  created: '2006-08-24 21:42:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/middle_east/5257128.stm\r\n\r\nNonetheless, your
    future remains more overcast than Lebanon's.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-24 22:40:53'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I didn\u2018t follow all of this thread, so I may be a bit OT, but these
    kinda discussions seem to always lead nowhere. What it does reminds me of, is
    the particular stance mainstream America has towards Israel: it's comparable to
    that of the Netherlands up to a couple of years ago \u2014 Israel being the good
    guy and all the Arabs on the other (evil) side. Based, of course, on a national
    sense of shame: more than a 100,000 Dutch jews were killed by the nazis after
    being deported by (mostly) Dutch officials during WW 2 (helped by the invention
    of a very hard to forge ID by a dutch government employee).\r\n\r\nIn a way the
    Israeli people are on the other side of the fence now, dishing out, punishing.
    And I know that most of them hate themselves for that. As they should\u2026\r\n\r\nStrange,
    that people have such disregard for the lessons that history can teach them. And
    that they are so often guided by guilt."
  created: '2006-08-24 23:22:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Israeli people are on the other side of the fence now, dishing out, punishing.\r\n\r\nNo,
    Bert, you've got it wrong. The Israelis are not in the position of the Nazis or
    their Dutch collaborators. They have been under regular attack from the outside
    by those with the declared aim of at the very least eliminating the state of Israel.
    And many of those have often acted as if they would be very happy to finish what
    the Nazis started. \r\n\r\nAre you unaware of this? And are you not aware that
    Israel made peace when they had the chance, with Egypt and Jordan? And there were
    willing to negotiate even with Arafat, who walked away from the negotiating table
    and started a new terror war? That Israel vacated Lebanon and Gaza, only to be
    attacked by rockets and troops by those with the declared aim of destroying Israel?\r\n\r\nAs
    I wrote above, I think Israel made some terrible mistakes--the invasion of Beirut,
    the settlements scattered all over the West Bank. And they have treated the Israeli
    Arab population as second class and have been at times been brutal occupiers.
    They have, however, been facing a relentless enemy full of hatred whipped up by
    demagogery from rotten governments, unwilling to make peace and willing to rejoice
    in terror attacks. \r\n\r\nThere is plenty to fault Israel for. But if you look
    at their opposition, you will see it is far worse, unwilling to make peace when
    Israel has longed for it for sixty years. \r\n\r\nBert, before you accuse the
    Israelis of being like the Nazis, read some history. And talk to some Israelis
    and some Arabs. Then make up your mind. \r\n\r\nps. If you think that Israelis
    are wracked with guilt over defending themselves, you haven't met too many Israelis
    :)"
  created: '2006-08-25 01:13:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No William, Bert seems to be aware of much more than you. Paradoxically thanks
    to Israeli crimes, the Dutch have finally shed their guilt. Even the Germans are
    now rising back up. The much bigger issue though is when the US will be able to
    shed its media's svengali.\r\n\r\nThe moment you come to accept that the world
    has gone as far as it can in repairing the effects of the Holocaust, you will
    start your journey back into the fold of humanity. The other peoples of the world
    are waiting for your mental recovery.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-25 01:43:05'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "I accept that the world has gone as far as it can in repairing the effects
    of the Holocaust. I don't accept Hezbollah attacks on Israel. Nor do I accept
    anti-semitism, such as the statements by Hugo Chavez I quoted earlier, or those
    by Canadian First Nations leader David Ahekanew: \r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Ahenakew\r\n\r\nYour
    statements are almost just as bad, and you should also stare at the mirror for
    linking the Holocaust to the middle eastern dispute, and harder for mongering
    hate* (even if you don't advocate violence). Holocaust or not, Israel's neighbours
    didn't accept the Jewish state's right to exist, years before the occupation of
    the territories.\r\n\r\nYou could also clean up your style, but that's a different
    story.\r\n\r\n*Another example of an antisemitic statement: \"start your journey
    back into the fold of humanity\""
  created: '2006-08-25 02:00:18'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> I didn\u2018t follow all of this thread, so I may be a bit OT, but these
    kinda discussions seem to always lead nowhere......\r\n\r\nYou're right about
    this point. This thread is like a rolling stone -- gathers no moss.  If you want
    to unsderstand the Middle East please read:\r\n\r\n\r\nThe classic:\r\nThe great
    powers and the Near East, 1774-1923,\r\nby M S Anderson\r\n\r\nAnother classic:\r\nPolitics
    in the Middle East  \r\nby Robert Springborg, James A. Bill \r\n\r\nOne of the
    top 10 guys:\r\nBernard Lewis --\r\nWhat Went Wrong?: The Clash Between Islam
    and Modernity in the Middle East  \r\n\r\nThe Crisis of Islam: Holy War and Unholy
    Terror\r\n\r\n \r\nAnother top 10:\r\nFouad Ajami (Middle East & Lebanon) --\r\nThe
    Foreigner's Gift: The Americans, the Arabs, and the Iraqis in Iraq \r\n \r\nDream
    Palace of the Arabs: A Generation's Odyssey\r\n\r\n\r\nAnother top 10:\r\nMoshe
    Ma'oz (Middle East & Syria) --\r\nInventing the Axis of Evil: The Truth About
    North Korea, Iran, and Syria by Bruce Cumings, Ervand Abrahamian, Moshe Maoz.\r\n\r\nThe
    Israeli-Palestinian Peace Process: Oslo and the Lessons of Failure: Perspectives,
    Predicaments and Prospects by Robert L. Rothstein, Moshe Maoz, and Khalil Shikaki
    \r\n\r\nMiddle Eastern Minorities and Diasporas by Moshe Maoz and Gabriel Sheffer
    \r\n\r\nThe Decline of Arab Unity: The Rise and Fall of the United Arabic Republic
    by Elie Podeh and Moshe Maoz. \r\n"
  created: '2006-08-25 22:46:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, don't listen to the people on the ground about their hopes, fears and
    desires for the <cite>future</cite> - just read a lot of canned history - it is,
    after all, written by the winners! Just read, and wave about references to glorious
    formal declarations, all in the comfort of your own safe environment, where you
    can simply push a button to elect the next war criminal to run your country. Just
    read, so you don't have to feel [guilt], so you don't have to actually face the
    enemy [within].\r\n\r\nWestern formalism gave us the 20th century, and the peons
    still don't get it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-25 22:56:02'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: Bert, why don't you do both? Read whichever book or books you like, then you
    could fly to California to learn from the "people on the ground".
  created: '2006-08-26 01:43:19'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite>it is, after all, written by the winners! </cite>\r\nMaybe then try
    with\r\nA Tale of Love and Darkness (Amos Oz) or \r\nThis year in Jerusalem (Mordecai
    Richler) or try to travel to Israel. I did it many times and it's an incredible
    experience, it helps you understand how people live there, what they think and
    how they raise their kids ( Israel it's incredibly beautiful, children-friendly
    and clean) and everytime you watch the news you relate to these people and you
    stop judging the whole thing like it's some sort of football game. Shimon Peres
    told few stories about Oslo's negotiations in some book, I can't remember the
    name. He described how Arafat and his crew kept threatening to take the next plane
    and abort all negotiations every 10 minutes and every time they had to convince
    him to stay and keep talking. Then one day he did that and people were already
    exhausted and Shimon Peres told him: \"ok, then go: see you there\". That <cite>
    see you there </cite> is so representative of the whole situation, isn't it? It's
    like saying, well, the problem is not going away just because you refuse to negotiate,
    is it?\r\nWhatever you think of that, I think Oriana Fallaci was right: Arafat
    was a horrible person and he's done nothing for his people. And yes, I do know
    there are loads of myths surrounding Oslo but still, it could have been a start.
    No?\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-26 05:16:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Oslo was merely a blip, just like this latest battle. Demonizing individuals
    and putting too much faith in meetings between figureheads is exactly what impedes
    true improvement. Think about the people.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-31 21:40:24'
date: '2006-08-13 22:30:58'
node_type: forum
title: Nice type, shame about the content?

---
