---
author:
  name: coop
body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nI've been trying to name my opentype family for nearly 4 weeks
  now, with limited success.\r\nI have followed the tutorial -\r\n\r\nhttp://groups.msn.com/FontLab/tipsandtricks.msnw?action=get_message&mview=0&ID_Message=2843
  \r\n\r\nexactly but I'm still getting problems with my font list in Applications
  like InDesign 2.0.\r\nI have an 8 font family \r\n\r\nLight\r\nLight It\r\nRegular\r\nRegular
  It\r\nMedium\r\nMedium It\r\nBold\r\nBold It \r\n\r\nMy font list shows all the
  fonts under one heading apart from the Light It and Regular which are in another
  font heading.\r\nAlso the font heading only appear in the correct alphabetical order
  if I load the fonts directly into the fonts folder within the InDesing folder. If
  I load the fonts using Extensis Suitcase the font always appear at the bottom of
  the font list.\r\n\r\nI would be very grateful is someone could offer any advise
  or suggestions.\r\nI'm using Fontlab 5, Mac OS X\r\n\r\n\r\ns."
comments:
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nIf it might help, I've put some screen shots of the font Info
    panels from Fontlab on a friends server. Maybe someone can see something I'm doing
    wrong.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://homepage.ntlworld.com/c.dickinson40/light.pdf\"
    target=\"blank\">Light</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://homepage.ntlworld.com/c.dickinson40/light%20Italic.pdf\"
    target=\"blank\">Light Italic</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://homepage.ntlworld.com/c.dickinson40/regular.pdf\"
    target=\"blank\">Regular</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://homepage.ntlworld.com/c.dickinson40/Italic.pdf\"
    target=\"blank\">Italic</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://homepage.ntlworld.com/c.dickinson40/medium.pdf\"
    target=\"blank\">Medium</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://homepage.ntlworld.com/c.dickinson40/medium%20Italic.pdf\"
    target=\"blank\">Medium Italic</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://homepage.ntlworld.com/c.dickinson40/bold.pdf\"
    target=\"blank\">Bold</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://homepage.ntlworld.com/c.dickinson40/bold%20Italic.pdf\"
    target=\"blank\">Bold Italic</a> \r\n\r\n\r\nAgain any help would be much appericated.\r\n\r\ns."
  created: '2006-08-15 12:17:29'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Your problems seem to have other sources than font naming:\r\n\r\n<cite>My
    font list shows all the fonts under one heading apart from the Light It and Regular
    which are in another font heading.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt seems your font caches are
    corrupted. Close Adobe apps, search for 'AdobeFnt', then delete files looking
    like 'AdobeFnt06.lst' (with InDesign 2).\r\nBut more important, you should download
    and run FontFinagler which deletes OSX's font caches.\r\n\r\n<cite>If I load the
    fonts using Extensis Suitcase the font always appear at the bottom of the font
    list.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn FontInfo, 'Encoding and Unicode', did you add Greek?\r\n\r\nThe
    naming looks ok (hope I didn't miss something); seems you followed the suggestion
    to follow Adobe's example.\r\nYou should take care that in 'Basic set of font
    names', after the Weight name,\r\nthere is a number in the smaller field. This
    helps applications sort weights.\r\nThen, you can omit filling out the 'Non-English
    or special font names' (except if you want to make additional changes) if you
    activate the option/preference 'do not export OpenType name records' in 'Generating
    OpenType PS, OpenType TT and TrueType'.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.kltf.de/otproduction.htm\">Here</a>
    (click the logo to enter) is a download PDF 'Font Naming' with some info. See
    esp the small print and notes on page 3. However, this is still 'beta' ... Adam
    Twardoch's suggestions are still the most authoritative ones -- if there is any
    such thing in the OpenType world.\r\n\r\nKarsten\r\n\r\nTo Typophile: Someone
    eat my image!&nbsp;&nbsp;:("
  created: '2006-08-15 14:27:14'
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "k.l.\r\n\r\nThanks for the reply, I'll look into your suggestions now.\r\n\r\ns."
  created: '2006-08-15 14:46:24'
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "k.l.\r\n\r\nI tried all your suggestions. but still no luck. I've still got
    two font entries in the font list,\r\n\r\n1.\r\nLight\r\nLight Italic\r\nRegular\r\n\r\n2.\r\nItalic\r\nMedium\r\nMedium
    Italic\r\nBold \r\nBold Italic\r\n\r\ns."
  created: '2006-08-15 16:35:13'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Hello!\r\n\r\nIn case you use the 'Additional OpenType names / Non-English
    or special font names', you might also check if the entry for 16-1-0-0 and 16-3-1-1033
    are identical throughout all fonts, like, do regular, light, lightitalic have
    an additional space after the name? You need to scroll down a bit; I cannot see
    the entry in your screenshots. For you are speaking of InDesign -- it's OT Family
    Name / NameID16 which identifies the family to which a font belongs.\r\nHave you
    really run <a href=\"http://homepage.mac.com/mdouma46/fontfinagler\">FontFinagler</a>?
    I had the problem of a family split into two myself some time ago, and it turned
    out that it was the cache. Not Adobe's, but OSX's own cache. \r\nAs a test, you
    could also install the fonts on a Mac on which you haven't installed them before.\r\n\r\nThe
    only thing I see is the Regular shows 'Test' also in OT Style Name, but I think
    this is rather a copy/paste error, and irrelevant to the problems.\r\n\r\nKarsten\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-15 17:35:30'
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "Yes I treid all suggestions and Font Finagler. As a last attempt I going
    to install on a different machine and if it does'nt work call it a day.\r\n\r\ns."
  created: '2006-08-16 13:41:42'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Download [[TTX]] and use the command\r\n<code>ttx -t name &lt;MyFont&gt;</code>\r\nto
    understand what's going on behind the scenes in regards to the 'name' table.\r\n\r\nThen
    compare your results with the .ttx files included in this zip:\r\nhttp://www.adhesiontext.com/typophile/MinionPro_name.zip\r\n\r\nIt
    contains the 'name' table of Minion Regular, Italic, Bold, BoldItalic, Medium
    and MediumItalic. From these, it shouldn't be too hard to come up with files for
    Light and LightItalic.\r\n\r\nAlso, read FontLab's manual: Font Names, p. 214
    onwards.\r\n\r\nSo don't give up yet. Good luck :)"
  created: '2006-08-16 14:52:27'
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "Thanks for the reply Miguel - I actual just got it working, I not too sure
    how yet, but I'll look into your suggestions as well.\r\n\r\nI still have the
    problem of the font name appering at the bottom of the font list instead of alphabetically.
    \r\n\r\nAs k.l. suggested \r\n\r\n<em>In FontInfo, \u2018Encoding and Unicode\u2019,
    did you add Greek?</em>\r\n\r\nbut still the problem occurs \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-16 16:13:19'
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nDoes anyone have any further ideas on this problem of the
    fonts appearing at the bottom of the font list.\r\nI have added Greek to the \"Encoding
    and Unicode\" page on the Font Info panel, but I'm still getting the same problem.\r\nI
    have noticed that on the <a href=\"http://homepage.ntlworld.com/c.dickinson40/code.gif\"
    target =\"blank\">Supported codepage and default character set page</a>, when
    Iclick the green emerald I don't get anything in the Supported codepages:\r\nCould
    this have something to do with my problem ?\r\n\r\n\r\ns."
  created: '2006-08-17 15:13:26'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Simon,\r\n\r\nDoes your typeface include a full set of Greek glyphs? I can't
    tell from your screenshots. If not, then you do NOT want the Greek encoding; it
    can cause the fonts to appear in the lower \"international\" font list. \r\n\r\nI'm
    not completely certain about this, but I didn't ever see you mention Greek support,
    and Karsten might have asked about it, thinking it would cause the problem, not
    solve it. "
  created: '2006-08-17 16:42:02'
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "No I don't have a full set of Greek glyphs.\r\n\r\nI thought it was a work
    around to stop this problem of the font name appearing lower in the font list.\r\n\r\ns."
  created: '2006-08-17 16:48:53'
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "O.K., so I taken out the Greek encoding, and I still have the font name apperaing
    towards the bottom of the list ?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\ns. "
  created: '2006-08-17 16:58:21'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "><em>I have noticed that on the Supported codepage and default character
    set page, when I click the green emerald I don\u2019t get anything in the Supported
    codepages</em>\r\n\r\nUmm, that's strange. Are you sure your glyphs have Unicode
    values assigned to them?\r\nWhat happens if you press the green diamond on the
    'Unicode ranges' page?"
  created: '2006-08-17 18:54:56'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: I believe you have to have all the characters in a codepage for the "green
    emerald" to do its trick.
  created: '2006-08-17 19:00:27'
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "Miguel, If you mean the 'Supported Unicode ranges' page, when I press the
    green emerald I get selected ticks for entries like Basic Latin, Latin1-Supplement
    and Latin Extended-A. like <a href=\"http://homepage.ntlworld.com/c.dickinson40/1-image.gif\"
    target=\"blank\">this</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-17 19:43:01'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Paul is right - which means you'll need to manually specify some codepage
    support. That's what's used to determine which general menu section the fonts
    go in.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-08-18 03:02:35'
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "'manually specify some codepage support' - could you explain ?\r\n\r\nIn
    reply to Paul question, I do have all the characters in the code page.\r\n\r\ns."
  created: '2006-08-18 07:29:51'
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "I have just recently upgraded to Fontlab studio. I had never noticed this
    problem in 4.5, so I opened this font in 4.5 and tried the green diamond on the
    <a href=\"http://homepage.ntlworld.com/c.dickinson40/2image.gif\" target =\"blank\">Supported
    codepage and default character set page</a> and default character set page and
    it worked the supported codepages appear in there correct place.\r\n\r\nIs this
    a bug in Studio ? "
  created: '2006-08-18 07:40:06'
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nI've just tested the family in InDesign on a PC and it works
    fine, does this make any sense to anyone or suggest a soultion to the situation
    when testing on the mac.\r\n\r\ns."
  created: '2006-08-18 11:39:46'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "><em>I had never noticed this problem in 4.5, so I opened this font in 4.5
    and tried the green diamond on the Supported codepage and default character set
    page and default character set page and it worked the supported codepages appear
    in there correct place.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's why I found it strange. I had also
    used the green diamond with success in FLv4.6\r\n\r\n><em>Is this a bug in Studio
    ?</em>\r\n\r\nMaybe not. Perhaps it's a change of behavior from FL4.x to FLS.
    Might be documented in the manual."
  created: '2006-08-19 00:32:45'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "><em>\u2018manually specify some codepage support\u2019 - could you explain
    ?</em>\r\n\r\nInstead of pressing the green diamond, you might need to selectively
    add the codepage entries to the \"Supported codepages\" field, by pressing the
    button with the arrow pointing right. (Your image attached)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/codepages_5289.gif]"
  created: '2006-08-19 00:39:50'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: ">>Is this a bug in Studio ?\r\n> Maybe not. Perhaps it\u2019s a change of
    behavior \r\n> from FL4.x to FLS. Might be documented in the manual.\r\n\r\nIt
    is an intended change of behavior. In FontLab 4.x, the automatic algorithm was
    too generous. The spec requires all characters from a certain codepage to be present
    if a certain flag is to be enabled -- but FontLab 4.x's tolerance was too much.
    In FontLab Studio 5, the alrgorithm requires about 95% of the characters from
    a certain codepage in order to flag it. \r\n\r\nIf in Studio 5, pressing the green
    button gives you no codepages at all, it seems that the character set of your
    font is pretty incomplete or that there is some other problem with your .vfb file.
    You may want to contact us at http://www.fontlab.com/contact/ \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam
    Twardoch\r\nFontlab Ltd.\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-19 06:50:18'
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nThanks for the replies everyone, it's really helping with
    my steep learning curve of FL.\r\n\r\nMiguel - I've tried selectively adding the
    codepages, but still the same problem.\r\n\r\nAdam - I'm sure I have all the required
    characters for the <a href=\"http://homepage.ntlworld.com/c.dickinson40/codepage-image.gif\"
    target=\"blank\">codepage.</a>\r\nAs a test I removed all unicode, then Generated
    names for all glyphs and then Generated Unicode again.\r\nI contacted Fontlab
    through there problem report page, but on sending I kept getting a error page
    saying the page wasn't sent. I didn't include any zip files cos they were over
    the 250KB allowed.\r\nI did send the same information to orders@fontlab.com, but
    I don't know if this will get through to the correct department ?\r\n\r\ns."
  created: '2006-08-19 08:09:37'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Send the stuff to contact at fontlab dot com\r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-08-19 08:58:12'
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "Sorry my mistake, that's where I did send it.\r\n\r\ns."
  created: '2006-08-19 09:38:52'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "><em>I\u2019m sure I have all the required characters for the codepage.</em>\r\n\r\nAre
    you *really* sure? I don't see the default fractions (&#x00BC; &#x00BD; &#x00BE;)
    for example.\r\nThat image was taken in 'Unicode ranges' mode. Switch to 'Codepages'
    mode and see if your glyphset covers 95% of the yellow-tagged codepoints.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/codepage_mode_6607.png]"
  created: '2006-08-19 15:02:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Good thread. There is a wiki in this somewhere.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-19 15:12:37'
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "Yes in <a href=\"http://homepage.ntlworld.com/c.dickinson40/code-2-image.gif\"
    target=\"blank\">'Codepages Mode'</a> not all the characters are there. Are you
    saying that I need to complete the rest of the characters. If so what would be
    in the top cells that have no templates to illustrate what should go there?\r\n\r\nIs
    it not possible to have fonts with characters missing and still have them work
    correctly ?\r\n\r\nAs 'dezcom' mentioned this is a great thread, but my problem
    is that the font name appears at the bottom of the font list, are the missing
    characters related to this ?, or is just that the green diamond won't work with
    characters missing ?  \r\n\r\nThanks again everyone for your input.\r\n\r\ns."
  created: '2006-08-19 18:03:37'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "><em>Are you saying that I need to complete the rest of the characters.</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    but just the ones that have templates, plus a few others. That said, you should
    add:\r\n-- 0000 (.notdef)*\r\n-- 00A0 (nbspace) Make it a composite of 0020 (space)\r\n--
    00AD (sfthyphen) Make it a composite of 002D (hyphen)\r\n-- The remaining ones
    that have template\r\n\r\n*Also, make this the \"PFM Default character\"\r\n\r\nAnother
    thing I noticed, you have the Euro glyph (\u20AC) encoded as U+00A4, when it should
    be in U+20AC. U+00A4 is normally used by currency (&#x00A4;).\r\n\r\n><em>Is it
    not possible to have fonts with characters missing and still have them work correctly
    ?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, but it's much easier to make them work when there are no characters
    missing :)\r\n\r\n><em>but my problem is that the font name appears at the bottom
    of the font list, are the missing characters related to this ?</em>\r\n\r\nAs
    Thomas said, some applications, like InDesign for example, rely on the Codepage
    information present in fonts, to order them on the menus.\r\n\r\n><em>or is just
    that the green diamond won\u2019t work with characters missing ?</em>\r\n\r\nAs
    Adam explained, pressing the green diamond will only produce results if most of
    the characters for a given Codepage are present."
  created: '2006-08-19 19:44:53'
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "Miguel thanks for those gems.\r\n\r\n<em>*Also, make this the \u201CPFM Default
    character\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nI'm assuming PFM is 'Printer Font Metrics', so how
    would I make the .notdef \r\nthe \u201CPFM Default character\u201D ?\r\n\r\ns."
  created: '2006-08-19 20:44:47'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "><em>so how would I make the .notdef the \u201CPFM Default character\u201D
    ?</em>\r\n\r\nGo to the panel \"Encoding and Unicode\" in Font Info window.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not entirely sure that PFM means \u2018Printer Font Metrics\u2019 in this case.
    I think that field refers to the 'usDefaultChar' entry of the OS/2 table.\r\nhttp://partners.adobe.com/public/developer/opentype/index_os2.html#dc\r\n\r\nEssentially,
    this will be the character that a given application will display, whenever a requested
    character is not present in the font. For example, let's say I'm using your font
    and type the Greek letter \u03B1 (alpha). Because your font does not support Greek,
    the usDefaultChar will be displayed.\r\nNow, it's not very useful to assign the
    character 'space' (U+0020) to this character, because this way it's not (visually)
    obvious that a character is not present and is being replaced.\r\n\r\nThe .notdef
    glyph can take many shapes. You'll find some examples on this page:\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/recom.htm"
  created: '2006-08-20 02:00:17'
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "Miguel - thanks again for this invaluable input.\r\n\r\nMy problem with the
    font name position is still there. I produced this font in Fontographer and then
    opened the bmap file from Fontographer in FL to complete the character set and
    generate the opentype format, is it possible that this has something to do with
    this problem.   \r\n\r\n\r\ns."
  created: '2006-08-20 12:49:03'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "After all the insights, I can't think of other problems your fonts might
    have. In any case, here's a short (and most certainly incomplete) list of things
    to check:\r\n-- The OS font cache is clean (there are no old versions of the fonts
    in memory)\r\n-- The fonts have all the characters for the following Codepages
    (the ones between parenthesis can be omitted, I think)\r\n\u2022 1252 Latin 1\r\n\u2022
    1250 Latin 2: Eastern Europe\r\n(\u2022 1254 Turkish)\r\n(\u2022 1257 Windows
    Baltic)\r\n-- The Codepages above are included in the 'Supported codepages' field\r\n\r\nIf
    your fonts still line-up at the bottom of the menus after these steps, try to
    add the codepage '1253 Greek', as Karsten suggested. I think I recall a bug where
    this codepage need to be flagged, when the codepage '1250 Latin 2: Eastern Europe'
    was present (or when characters from that codepage were present), even if the
    font/typeface had no coverage for Greek.\r\n\r\n<strong>A clarification on the
    <em>.notdef</em> glyph:</strong>\r\nA couple posts above, I told you to put this
    glyph in the 'slot' 0000. This is in fact incorrect, as that glyph would be encoded
    as U+0000 (uni0000). The correct way is to give that glyph the name '.notdef',
    and leave the Unicode field blank, as shown in the image bellow.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/notdef_5614.png]\r\nNonetheless,
    this glyph should be the first glyph in all your fonts, appearing in the 'slot'
    0 (zero), when in Index mode.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/notdef_index_3686.png]"
  created: '2006-08-20 16:37:07'
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "Miguel-\r\n\r\n- Clean cache with Font Finagler\r\n- All characters in those
    codepages\r\n- Added Greek to supported codepages\r\n- Changed the .notdef\r\n\r\nStill
    no change with font list placing.\r\n\r\nI've sent a problem report to Fontlab
    with all vfb. files, so hopfully they may see a problem I've missed\r\n\r\ns."
  created: '2006-08-21 08:39:50'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "On a non-Latin note, I'm wondering what custom properties I need to set in
    the \"non-English or special font names\" name table if I wish to include the
    Thai name of a font inside the font file. Entry 16: preferred font family allows
    me to select various encodings/scripts. Is it just a matter of selecting Thai
    and typing the Thai name in the custom field? \r\n\r\nIs it worth doing this?
    Would this then appear as the default font name on Thai operating systems? "
  created: '2013-05-06 18:20:25'
date: '2006-08-14 13:30:03'
title: Font Family Naming in FontLab

---
