---
author:
  name: schereme
body: "Can someone please explain to me when to use [[En]], [[em]] and [[hypen|hyphens]]?
  \ Also, when does one put space are the [[dash]]?\r\n\r\nThanks "
comments:
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "here is a <a href=\"http://www.p22.com/terminal/dash.html\">quick primer</a>\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-17 20:02:04'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Dashes are so often misused! It doesn't help that they can very a LOT in width
    from font to font. You are never supposed to put spaces around the dash (as it
    says in the primer).
  created: '2006-08-17 20:49:54'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Great primer.  I've got a rackful of editing style guides, and they are all
    pretty much in agreement with kegler's post.
  created: '2006-08-17 21:04:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Not only do dashes vary in width from font to font, but also height and thickness.
    Some have built-in space on either side, while others don't. So like most things
    typographical, the trick is to get to know the typefaces you work with, and experiment
    to produce the best setting.\r\n\r\nAs a rule of thumb, if you're thinking about
    using an em dash and not quite sure about how it will work out for a particular
    setting, use the en-dash with a space either side instead."
  created: '2006-08-17 21:46:31'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Nick - beg to differ. As in the primer, the em and en dashes have very different
    functions, and should not be used interchangeably or have spaces around them.
    The en is a connecting dash; it represents a span of time or space. The em is
    a separating dash\u2014to set apart a thought or idea. I do find that in some
    cases the em in particular is kerned too tight, but you can adjust those in the
    kerning tables (and I do)."
  created: '2006-08-17 22:46:03'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "An em dash -- is simply a long dash. If it's too long for you, use an en
    dash or horizontally scale it (yes, it's okay to scale a rectangle).\r\n\r\nContrary
    to the P22 primer, the europeans generally use spaces (sometimes thin spaces)
    on either side of dashes, and I prefer it. No space creates visual tension for
    me. Many fonts need the room to breathe. As Nick said, all of this depends on
    the font, as some dashes are longer than others and some have sidebearings with
    space, some do not.\r\n\r\nThe only hard and fast rule is that you must remain
    consistent in your use throughout a piece or brand.\r\n\r\nHey Patty - you just
    used a hypen with spaces when addressing Nick! Is that ok? ;)"
  created: '2006-08-17 23:46:26'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Yeah, I did use a hyphen, and often do when typing emails or other informal
    correspondence because I'm too lazy to do the shift option thingie. I also sometimes
    use all lowercase in email but that ain't correct typesetting either. And I use
    abbreviations and shorthand too altho (there's one) I wouldn't in a book or other
    printed piece.\r\n\r\nAs we have all noted there is a lot of variety in size of
    dashes but that's no excuse for poor typesetting. I do kern a little extra space
    around an em if it's too tight, which they often are. And yes it's cool to horizontally
    scale the dashes a bit to suit your taste, I've even created style sheets just
    for dashes. \r\n\r\nBut the original question in this thread concerned usage and
    I'm old school\u2014I think it's important to use dashes correctly and not mix
    them up."
  children:
  - author:
      name: A.F.
    body: "\"I do kern a little extra space around an em\u2026\" \r\nYou say you are
      old school?"
    created: '2006-08-21 23:29:28'
  created: '2006-08-18 00:14:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Patty, I recommend \"space - en dash - space\" for practical reasons, because
    as I said, emdash treatment varies so widely with typeface. For instance, this
    Futura em dash is really nasty, with no sidebearings and a long way from the vertical
    centre of the x-height. This is the kind of situation where \"following the rules\"
    will cause a typographer to do stuff which looks clumsy.\r\nOn the other hand,
    Electra's em dash has plenty of sidebearings, i.e. built-in spaces. No trouble
    there, but \"space - en dash - space doesn't look bad either, so that setting
    works in both fonts.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Dash2_3468.png]\r\n\r\nFor
    more experienced typographers, I would agree with you that the old school emdash
    with no added space is ideal, but may require nuancing, such as inserting some
    manual kerning or hair space, and maybe baseline shift, depending on the font
    and the typographer's taste."
  created: '2006-08-18 03:39:17'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Nick [space hyphen space] I agree the Futura em is clunky\u2014too long and
    too high\u2014but I don't think the en with spaces improves it. The Electra em
    is nice tho. \r\n\r\nI am a stickler but also realize that the average Joe doesn't
    even know the difference. Of course the average Joe doesn't look at the front
    and back cover of a book together to notice how nicely you've balanced and lined
    up the various elements either. And wouldn't care that the fractions weren't converted
    or whether there were prime marks instead of smart quotes. Typesetting is a lonely
    business but I come from book publishing, where this kind of thing matters. And
    I'm not dumbing down for the average Joe.\r\n\r\nOn a similar note, what is the
    deal with ellipses? There's a keystroke for them (option semicolon) but when I
    get a manuscript it's always space-period-space-period-space-period. Then you
    have to deal with line breaks, etc. What is up with that????"
  created: '2006-08-18 03:53:40'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: Not every computer has an <cite>Option</cite> key.
  created: '2006-08-18 04:04:43'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "The masses don't care about typography. You do. Do it right.\r\n\r\nThe masses
    benefit from good typography, whether they see it or not.\r\n\r\nTo bitch about
    space-dot-space-dot-space-dot-space is petty. To simply, and quietly, replace
    it with a proper typographic glyph is proper. We hear your pain. \r\n\r\nNow we'll
    work on those dashes :-)"
  created: '2006-08-18 04:25:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'According to Bringhurst, the use of n with spaces or thin spaces either side
    is standard and recommended English style for asides, and m dash recommended American
    style. He argues for the n dash with spaces as better because it puts less of
    a hole in the text. I think he''s right, but many fonts now are doing ''em dashes''
    less than an em, with spaces. So it''s getting a little complicated.  '
  created: '2006-08-18 04:32:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>What is up with that????</em>\r\n\r\nIt's probably a traditional standard
    from typewriter days.\r\nOn the upside, the technological gap between typewriter
    and letterpress creates design space for typography. "
  created: '2006-08-18 04:35:58'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Yeah but not when some wonky editor is correcting you.\r\n\r\nWilliam, what
    do the Brits do for dates, etc. where we would use the en dash?"
  created: '2006-08-18 04:51:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">what do the Brits do for dates\r\n\r\nI just looked back at Bringhurst,
    which I got not quite accurate from memory. He says the m-dash for a 'phrase marker'
    is 'Victorian'. He says, \"Like the oversized space between sentences, it belongs
    to the padded and corsetted aesthetic of Victorian Typography.\" I remember the
    use of the spaced n-dash from my years in England, and it is part of Tschichold's
    recommended style for Penguin. I suspect it is in other English style books, but
    I don't have any on hand. \r\n\r\nFor dates, Bringhurst recommends en dashes without
    spaces, as is also American style, eg. in the Chicago Manual of Style. \r\n\r\nIf
    I remember rightly from earlier Typophile discussions, Matthew Carter came up
    with the idea of three-quarter em dashes with spaces out to the em. Being a 'mid
    Atlantic' kind of guy, I guess this is apt. I think it is probably the best solution.
    Kent Lew wrote that in Whitman he did the Carter-style em dashes and also negatively
    kerned them so if keyed in successively they make a solid line.   \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-18 05:16:35'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I've been using the ellipses character instead of multiple periods more often,
    but I've noticed that (at least in the fonts/word processors I've been using)
    if I want four-dot ellipses (eg to indicate the end of a sentence followed by
    elided text) a period + ellipses looks bad. The space that appears between the
    characters is not equal to that between the dots of the ellipses character.\r\n\r\nWhat's
    a perfectionist to do?"
  created: '2006-08-18 07:01:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Oscar_4632.jpg]\r\nThis is nice, from
    1940.\r\nI believe it was written, or edited, with typographic appearance in mind.\r\nThere
    seems to be a variety of marks used for subordinate clauses:\r\n-commas\r\n-brackets
    (parentheses)\r\n-dashes\r\nThe variety animates the setting, along with frequent
    paragraph breaks and italicization.\r\nDashes are used more often with quotations,
    perhaps to contrast with the quote marks themselves, whereas brackets are favoured
    for the author's text.\r\n\r\nThe dashes are narrow and the word spaces wide,
    compared with how it would usually be done today*, but as has been mentioned,
    the main thing is to find your style and be consistent -- readers will \"get\"
    it pretty quickly, because that's the kind of adjustment they make all the time,
    reading material as diverse as newspapers, magazines, books, advertisements, etc.
    So no need to dull down to some conservative ideal of what's considered most readable.\r\n\r\n*a
    combination of the metrics (character widths) in the font, and the H&J setting."
  created: '2006-08-18 07:52:31'
- author:
    name: CameronM
    picture: 111113
  body: "My two cents... (and I'm in Australia, so not sure where that fits in to
    British or American style, probably both)\r\n\r\nI use an en dash to indicate
    a range, sometimes with a space, sometimes not (eg Mon\u2013Fri, 9\u20135pm; 4
    September \u2013 5 October), depending on if the 'ranged' items also have spaces
    within them.\r\n\r\nIn extended text, I like the em-dash with hair spaces either
    side to indicate the change-of-thought. Although some editors that we use think
    that is an old-style approach and prefer spaced ens instead.\r\n\r\neliason -
    I think the difference in space between the dots within an ellipsis and a period
    that follows makes sense. Otherwise, it would look like an ellipsis with four
    dots? I'd even go so far as to insert a thin space to make the difference noticeable.\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-18 08:03:47'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "William's memory is correct, for most uses in UK space en space is the norm
    and depending on the typeface look at whether it would be improved with a flexi
    (usually narrower) space instead, I very rarely use em dashes. As for dates Cameron's
    post about covers it. Maybe it is just being unused to seeing them but I find
    em dashes do add a biiiiig gap even in the Electra sample Nick posted.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-08-18 13:05:03'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Cameron: yes, we're in agreement\u2014the en connects and the em separates.
    I have yet to meet an editor who will allow any breach of that norm and I've been
    designing books for 20 years. I'm sure one can get away with more creative use
    of dashes in other contexts.\r\n\r\nTim: The point of the em dash is exactly that:
    to add a big gap. It represents a gap in thinking, a change in thought. I happen
    to like the width of the em in this font (Mercury is it?) It's too bad when it's
    either disproportionately wide or kerned too tight but those can be adjusted and
    should.\r\n\r\nFYI (and I'm not sure where the Brits fit in) it is also common
    in Europe not to indent paragraphs, which I find makes for hard reading. "
  created: '2006-08-18 15:21:03'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "> It represents a gap in thinking, a change in thought.\r\nBut surely an
    experienced reader would use a comma or semi colon in the same way, for example
    in Nick\u2019s print example I find it difficult to explain why the em dashes
    are used when a comma could do the same job, I don't really need to see the pause
    quite so forcefully.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-08-18 15:55:16'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: An em is more emphatic than a comma. Comma implies continuation, em is a break
    or aside. As in the primer, the em replaces either a colon or parenthesis. Emily
    Dickinson was the queen of the em dash.
  created: '2006-08-18 16:00:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the em replaces either a colon or parenthesis.</em>\r\n\r\nTrue, but
    it also does its own thing. The colon and parenthesis are short and vertical,
    whereas the length of the em dash -- imagine oneself writing it -- provides urgency
    and continuity.\r\n\r\nDashes are also visual design elements, look at the symmetry
    and shape of:\r\n\"All right, boys--that's enough.\"\r\n\r\nSo much more attractive
    than:\r\n\"All right, boys: that's enough.\"\r\n\r\nor:\r\n\"All right, boys,
    that's enough.\"\r\nwhich lacks the forcefulness the text warrants.\r\n\r\nalthough:\r\n\"All
    right boys, that's enough.\"\r\nwould be OK.\r\n\r\nIt's not enough to rely solely
    on grammatical rules and standards."
  created: '2006-08-18 17:40:14'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "that's all very interesting, i wasn't aware that there were cultural/national
    differences in usage of en-/em-dash.\r\nI can only comment/add on the \u2018traditional\u2019
    usage in germany:\r\nthe m-dash aka \u201EStreckenstrich\u201C (something along
    the lines of \u2018distance-stroke\u2019) was to be used to designate a distance/span
    of time and space like \u201E10\u201412 km\u201C/\u201E12\u201414.00 Uhr\u201C;
    or to be used in amounts of money with no digits like \u201E10,\u2014 Mark\u201C.
    The interesting thing is that you almost never see it being used today, i suspect
    exactly because it is deemed too long, as stated above. When used, you rarely
    see it without small 1/8th- to 1/4th-em spaces over here.\r\nSeeing the em-dash
    in use as described today to me makes quite a traditional, if not \u2018reactionary\u2019
    impression, like using the st-ligature in body copy, if you get my drift; but
    of course it depends on the typeface being used, context, etc. I find the en-dash
    sufficient in most cases.\r\nApparently there is no reliable rule of thumb to
    be found here, as the design of both dashes varies too much from typeface to typeface.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-18 19:33:32'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Just an FYI for Patty and all: See the \"Formating guidelines\" below. Typophile
    is enhanced with \"SmartyPants\", a script that translates ASCII characters into
    \"correct\" characters once you hit the \"Post comment\" button. For example:\r\n\r\n<ul><li>straight
    quotes become \"correct quotes\", beginning and ending</li><li>two hyphens --
    become an em dash</li><li>three dots ... become an ellipsis</li></ul>"
  created: '2006-08-18 20:08:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>straight quotes become \u201Ccorrect quotes\u201D, beginning and ending</em>\r\n\r\n...and
    abbreviation marks become \"incorrect\"."
  created: '2006-08-18 20:48:32'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Example?
  created: '2006-08-18 22:11:11'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "<em> What is up with that???? </em>\r\n\r\nSurely that is why we have <em>
    search and replace </em> functions; I never yet had an author's MS supplied that
    didn't require hours of tidying up prior to it being typeset\u2026 much of it
    is just about old typist's conventions. \r\n\r\nThere was a really fine post by
    Jason Dewinetz just over a year ago at\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/12883 which
    might make good related reading to this thread.\r\n\r\n<em>Not every computer
    has an Option key.</em>\r\nWell ALT then alright.\r\n\r\n<em> FYI (and I\u2019m
    not sure where the Brits fit in) it is also common in Europe not to indent paragraphs,
    which I find makes for hard reading.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not at all sure where you
    get this from, Patty; all the Brit typos I know would be horrified by the absence
    of para indenting. As Cameron points out, plenty of (Brit) typesetting convention
    still persists in Australia (and New Zealand). In a situation where there is no
    indent, then surely there is a line break, an outdent, a pilcrow or a drop cap
    or some other method of signalling the para break, no?\r\n\r\nAs for the Europeans,
    I just can't imagine the likes of Spiekermann, Noordzij, Porchez et al really
    trying to make it hard for the reader to distinguish paragraphs.\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-19 03:41:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Stephen, layout code that substitutes [space quotesingle] by [space quoteleft]
    gets abbreviations such as '66 or 'coz wrong.
  created: '2006-08-19 04:31:19'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Ah, yes indeed. John Gruber, author of Smarty Pants addresses the issue in
    the <a href=\"http://daringfireball.net/projects/smartypants/\">documentation</a>:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Algorithmic
    Shortcomings\r\n\r\nOne situation in which quotes will get curled the wrong way
    is when apostrophes are used at the start of leading contractions. For example:\r\n\r\n\t<blockquote>'Twas
    the night before Christmas.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIn the case above, SmartyPants
    will turn the apostrophe into an opening single-quote, when in fact it should
    be a closing one. I don\u2019t think this problem can be solved in the general
    case \u2014 every word processor I\u2019ve tried gets this wrong as well. In such
    cases, it\u2019s best to use the proper HTML entity for closing single-quotes
    (\u2019 or \u2019) by hand.</blockquote>"
  created: '2006-08-19 05:09:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: He justifies Smarty Pants' shortcoming by citing Quark, InDesign, etc. as
    precedents. They all accept it as a necessary evil, 'cause the problem is insoluble.
    Few bother to correct it, to the extent that the mistake has become the norm.
  created: '2006-08-19 06:06:24'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "I don't believe that the problem is theoretically insoluble.\r\n\r\nI've
    actually tackled it in the past, and my implementation, while not 100% perfect,
    was definitely better than that of SmartyPants."
  created: '2006-08-19 06:33:53'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: By all means, please write Gruber with the solution. I'm sure he'd like to
    improve the script.
  created: '2006-08-19 09:12:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t believe that the problem is theoretically insoluble.</em>\r\n\r\nAbbreviated
    words, maybe (with the help of a dictionary), but numbers?\r\n\r\nHow does a smart
    application distinguish between <em>'66 was a good year</em> and <em>'66 is a
    good age'</em>?"
  created: '2006-08-19 21:02:27'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "Stephen: I may just do that if I am able to find the time to dig up my old
    implementation and get it in a presentable format.\r\n\r\nNick: That particular
    case is very easy. The latter example has a matching pair, but the former doesn't.\r\n\r\nIn
    general, all you really have to do is determine when there are matching pairs
    and when there aren't. In practice, it can of course get tricky (and the parsing
    can get pretty hairy), but it's currently possible to do an excellent job.\r\n\r\nI
    say \"excellent\" as opposed to \"perfect\". Doing a perfect job, while not theoretically
    impossible, would require perfect natural-language processing, which is a Very
    Hard AI challenge that we haven't yet overcome.\r\n\r\nBTW, the job is much easier
    for software like SmartyPants than it is for, say, Microsoft Word. That's because
    Word does it in real-time (as you type), while SmartyPants has the luxury of processing
    the full text at once."
  created: '2006-08-19 22:50:45'
- author:
    name: Stephan Kurz
    picture: 110847
  body: "Ok, let's expand the problem to Abbreviations plus Apostrophes\r\n<cite>'66
    was a good year for Kate Moss' mother</cite>\r\n<cite>\u201966 was a good year
    for Kate Moss' mother</cite>"
  created: '2006-08-19 23:02:43'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "That's no longer a matching pair. The first apostrophe is followed by a digit,
    which weights the probability heavily in favor of it being an apostrophe. The
    second apostrophe has an <cite>s</cite> before it and a space afterwards (and
    no punctuation), which similarly increases its probability being an apostrophe
    rather than a closing quotation mark. This evidence, taken together, allows us
    to make a reasonable guess that we have two unconnected apostrophes. The guess
    may sometimes turn out to be wrong, but in most cases -- as in this one -- it
    will be correct.\r\n\r\n(I'm a little disconcerted by the repeated challenges.
    I did say that the parsing can get tricky, and isn't currently perfect. It's easy
    to construct pathological cases that will trip up even the best of the current
    solutions. In practice, such cases occur very infrequently.)"
  created: '2006-08-19 23:22:07'
- author:
    name: Brian_
    picture: 110618
  body: Before you scale that rectangle just be sure it actually is a rectangle.
  created: '2006-08-20 04:49:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Spire, please excuse the pathology, it's too much fun.\r\nI'm very interested
    in just how perfect such substitutions have to be, with regards to contextual
    alternates in OpenType. In particular, I'm contemplating how to substitute the
    \"x\" by the multiply character. \r\n\r\n<em>the job is much easier for software
    like SmartyPants</em>\r\n\r\nHowever, if InDesign can incorporate Paragraph Composer,
    what you propose is of the same order."
  created: '2006-08-20 19:10:11'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Nick, that \"Smattering of Ignorance\" sample is just beautiful.\r\n\r\nWould
    you, or someone else, mind telling me what the exact margin measurements might
    be for that page, the font, font point size, leading and such?\r\n\r\nI love the
    amount of white space on the page. It's a joy to read such material."
  created: '2006-08-20 19:30:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's 12 on 16 Linotype Janson.\r\nPage size is 5 1/4\" x 8 1/8\" (Smarty
    Pants -- give me back my hash marks!)\r\nYou can get the book for less than delivery
    cost at Amazon. I've read it several times, Levant is such a great wit, and the
    insights into the creative workings of popular culture in the 20s and 30s are
    amazing. "
  created: '2006-08-21 08:41:33'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: 'Thank you, Nick. I have several works by E.B. White that are similar in style
    and typography. I just wanted to compare. '
  created: '2006-08-21 11:54:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Thanks Christian -- I looked up EB White and see that he wrote for Holiday.
    I have a collection spanning the '50s, which I inherited from my father-in-law,
    so I'll take a look and see if I can dig up anything by him. With illustrations
    by Bemelmans, hopefully!
  created: '2006-08-22 07:40:27'
date: '2006-08-17 19:51:45'
node_type: forum
title: DASHES help please!

---
