---
author:
  name: dberlow
body: "This is an excerpt that started with my na\xEFve attempt this spring at defining
  The [[Em]] for the wikidpedia, where someone called Mishka, well, never mind. The
  only other example I have of this problem, is in the \"a bomb\" (not A-bomb) and
  \"the bomb\" (as in a-bomb) situation, where \"everyone\" understands the difference...;)\r\n\r\n...the
  type part is so \"simple,\" it's best to concentrate on that, even if you have to
  start from....well, literally, there is \"the origin,\" which is unfortunately not
  a good place to start!... What is the em? Not an em, or a em, ems, em quads or m&ms!...THE
  EM?\r\nA. \"An em is a unit of measurement in the field of typography. The unit
  is defined in the terms of a specific typeface, and thus varies in length.\" That
  Wikipedia! EM, can't phix it, can't quill it!\r\nB. \"The em is a sliding measure.
  One em is a distance equal to the type size. In 6 point type, an em is 6 points;
  in 12 point type an em is 12 points and in 60 point type an em is 60 points.\" well
  okay( Bringhurst), but that's both \"The em, one em, & an em\" in one definition.
  \r\nC. \"An em is the width of the cap height.\" E. Lupton\r\nD. With all due respect,
  some of, some of the above ;)\r\n\r\n\"An Em\" is the horizontal measure equal to
  the point size being composed in typesetting. When \"an Em\" is used as a spacing
  measure, it is shorthand for \u2014 \" 'Typesetter';  give me a space along the
  line of text equal to 1 times the point size, please!\"  The vertical distance a
  typesetter moves, when the next line of text is desired, e.g. a carriage return,
  is usually the point size, plus some; like 12 point type with 2 points of leading,
  known as \"12 on 14\", this indicates that even though the type is 12 pt, the typesetter
  has moved 14 points down to start the next line.  When the Typesetter moves down
  with no additional space, (known as \"no leading\", or 12 on 12), the vertical move
  is an em. If you move down two ems and start the next line, then it is double line
  spacing, e.g. 12 on 24. \r\n\r\nThe horizontal moves made by a typesetting system,
  including, an \"em space\", or an \"em dash\", are defined on a glyph-by-glyph,
  and font-by-font basis, (\"I\" being narrower than \"M\", or the em dash of a very
  wide face being wider than the em dash of a very narrow face, respectively, e.g.
  and not based on the \"cap height\"). If the font is a mono-spaced design, all horizontal
  moves are the same space, including an em. \r\n\r\nAll \"That\" uses the term \"em\"
  in the context of a given size during composition, and there it means \"whatever
  the point size is times X\" , so yes, \"an em\" is a sliding measure, but it is
  so because of the shorthanded nature of the command, and... it is not The Em. \"The
  Em\" is the amount of space on which a typeface design is converted to a font with
  the knowledge: \r\n                        \"This vertical space \r\n            represents
  \  the   distance \r\n            the  typesetting    system \r\n            will
  \ move  when  the  next \r\n            line  below is located  with \r\n            no
  extra 'leading' between\r\n            the lines of text.\"\r\n\r\nThis definition
  works for wood, stone, metal, film, bitmaps, and outlines. Modern font formats have
  definitions of ascent and descent from a baseline. As the total of these serve as
  the definition of the vertical move that used to be the Em, then that total is the
  new em.\r\n\r\nComments are welcome, or better yet, if you already agree, go hound
  Wiki for us..."
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The em is kinda like pi. It has an abolute value but relative to a sliding
    source.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-18 17:10:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "\u201CA typographic unit of measurement with relative, rather than absolute
    value. It is a vertical space which represents the distance a typesetting system
    moves when progressing form one line of text to the line below, without the addition
    of extra leading.\u201D\r\n\r\nI actually think that \"linespace\" is better than
    \"leading\", because leading can refer to either the gross leading (em + extra
    leading) or the added leading. So in 10 on 14, the leading can be either 14 or
    4. If you're going to talk about \"extra\" leading, you're automatically assuming
    that base leading = em height.\r\n\r\nSo another definition:\r\n\u201CA typographic
    unit of measurement with relative, rather than absolute value, equal to the built-in
    linespace of a font\".\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-18 18:10:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Davud: <em>\u201CA typographic unit of measurement with relative, rather
    than absolute value. It is a vertical space which represents the distance a typesetting
    system moves when progressing form one line of text to the line below, without
    the addition of extra leading.\u201D\r\n\r\nModern font formats have definitions
    of ascent and descent from a baseline. As the total of these serve as the definition
    of the vertical move that used to be the Em, then that total is the new em.</em>\r\n\r\nEek!
    You've just thrown out the relationship between em and nominal point size. This
    isn't a sliding scale anymore: it's a scale that has slid right off the edge.
    Well done. I like it.\r\n\r\nSo when we include an em space or em dash glyph in
    a font, should we make its width equal to:\r\n\r\na) the UPM value (traditional
    em)?\r\n\r\nb) the sum of the OS/2 winAscent and winDescent values?\r\n\r\nc)
    the sum of the OS/2 TypoAscender and TypoDescender values?\r\n\r\nd) the sum of
    the OS/2 TypoAscender, TypoDescender and TypoLineGap values?\r\n\r\nI suppose
    it might depend on how one has set fsSelection bit 7? :)"
  created: '2006-08-19 07:09:36'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\nthe built-in linespace of a font has nothing to do with em.
    \r\n\r\nThe em is otherwise called UPM size and is always equal to the point size.
    In a typical Type 1 font, the UPM size, or the em, is 1000 units. When the font
    is used to set type, the em, i.e. the 1000 units, are scaled to the desired point
    size. This means that at 10 pt type, the 1000 font units are scaled to 10 pt.
    So if your uppercase H is 700 units high, it will be 7 pt high at 10 pt type.
    \r\n\r\nThe built-in linespace of a font (linespace without extra leading) is
    typically the difference between Ascender and Descender. If the Ascender happens
    to be 750 and the Descender happens to be -250, then the built-in linespace is
    indeed 1000 units, so it corresponds to the em. But if the Ascender is 800 and
    the Descender is -300, the built-in linespace is 1100, so it\u2019s 110% of the
    em, or 11 pt when 10 pt type is set. \r\n\r\nI\u2019m sure you noticed that when
    you set different fonts at 10 pt in some applications, they get different default
    linespacing. They wouldn\u2019t if the built-in linespacing were always equal
    to em. \r\n\r\nIn OpenType and TrueType fonts, there are three different Ascenders
    and Descenders. Different applications and operating systems use different of
    these values. In Type 1 fonts, there just one such pair of values. But this is
    a technical detail in the context here. \r\n\r\nSome applications don\u2019t use
    the font-internal Ascender and Descender values at all to determine linespacing
    but use point sizes instead. Indeed, 10/14 pt type will always mean 10 pt type
    set of 14 pt linespace. But a \u201C120% leading\u201D may mean either 120% of
    the point size (120% * 10 pt = 12 pt) or 120% of the default linespace of the
    font (which may be, as I said, 10 pt or 11 pt or anything else). \r\n\r\nBringhurst
    is right and correct: \u201CThe em is a sliding measure. One em is a distance
    equal to the type size. In 6 point type, an em is 6 points; in 12 point type an
    em is 12 points and in 60 point type an em is 60 points.\u201D \r\n\r\nThis is
    not true: \u201CAn em [...] is defined in the terms of a specific typeface, and
    thus varies in length.\u201D For each typeface set at 10 pt, the em will be always
    10 pt. \r\n\r\nThis is specifically NOT true: \u201CAn em is the width of the
    cap height.\u201D The size of characters set at a specific point size (e.g. 10
    pt) using different typefaces will be different. In many text typefaces used today,
    the height of the uppercase H equals 70% of the em, but that figure is only a
    convention and may differ between font vendors and between specific typeface styles.
    For example, in a font like Zapfino, the uppercase H is significantly smaller
    than 70% of the em. \r\n\r\nAs I explained earlier, this is completely wrong:
    \u201CThis vertical space represents the distance the typesetting system will
    move when the next line below is located with no extra \u2018leading\u2019 between
    the lines of text.\u201D In some typesetting systems, the linespacing is based
    on values relative to the point sizes (that is, to the em), while on other systems,
    it is based on various Ascender and Descender values embedded in the font, which
    do not have any relation to the em. They may, but only by convention of specific
    font vendors. \r\n\r\nAnother issue is the issue of em space and em dash. \r\n\r\nThe
    Unicode standard has a code U+2003 that stands for EM SPACE. This character should
    nominally have the width equal to the em (i.e. to the UPM size) \u2014 typically
    1000 units. However, the type designer may include a glyph of any width there,
    and some designers feel that an em space should be actually a bit narrower than
    the full em. On the other hand, some applications may enforce the width of the
    character U+2003 to be equal to em, and may not use the uni2003 glyph from the
    font at all.\r\n\r\nSimilarly, U+2014 is the character EM DASH. Traditionally,
    it was supposed to be a dash that takes the full length of an em, with no sidebearings.
    However, some type designers prefer to make the em dash a bit shorter and include
    some sidebearings. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-19 07:17:23'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "David, \r\n\r\nI think I now understand your point of making the difference
    between \"an em\" and \"the em\". Now, I think in the age of digital typography,
    or even in the time of fototypesetting, it was and is futile to try to link the
    em to any VERTICAL measure. The em should only relate to HORIZONTAL measures.
    Relating em spaces, half ems, quad ems etc. to point sizes makes sense, because
    that is the only reliable measurement that works across fonts and applications.
    Even with Microsoft's relative point sizes, and Quark's point switchable between
    \"traditional\" and \"digital\", 10 pt is always 10 pt on the same screen, or
    in the same publication. So a 10 pt em is always a 10 pt em, and a half em is
    always 1/2 of the em. \r\n\r\nOn the other hand, vertical linespacing is just
    a mess. If creators of font formats were smart back in the 1980s, they would have
    only created one important measurement: the position of the baseline (on the em).
    If the em were 1000 units and the baseline were 250, then the ascender would be
    automatically implied to be 750 and the descender would be -250. And we would
    have the same reliable, \"physically tangible\" linespacing that we did in wood
    and metal. \r\n\r\nBut unfortunately, font format makers have gone overboard and
    created hhea.Ascender, hhea.Descender, OS/2.WinAscent, OS/2.WinDescent, OS/2.TypoAscender
    and OS/2.TypoDescender. There are five redundant values in the font, and absolutely
    no control over how linespacing is applied in different applications. "
  created: '2006-08-20 04:12:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>...the position of the baseline (on the em). If the em were 1000 units
    and the baseline were 250, then the ascender would be automatically implied to
    be 750 and the descender would be -250. And we would have the same reliable, \u201Cphysically
    tangible\u201D linespacing that we did in wood and metal.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's a
    very Latin-centric approach to font metrics. Not all scripts have the same typical
    arrangement that makes those figures convenient for a large number of Latin typefaces.
    If you tried design an Arabic naskh type on such an inflexibly defined body, you
    would need to make it tiny in order to squeeze the deep descenders into that 250
    unit space, and would end up with gigantic white space above the letters."
  created: '2006-08-20 05:27:06'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "No, you wouldn't. I'm not saying that the type would not be allowed to shoot
    over or under the body. Your glyphs could go as high as 2000 units or as low as
    -1000 units if you wished. But the linespacing would be controlled by just one
    value. Note that this is in fact how it is done today in high-end applications.
    In Adobe InDesign, if you specify leading in points, the OS/2.TypoAscender value
    is only used once \u2014 to determine the distance between the top of the frame
    and the first baseline. Then, each consecutive baseline is simply placed at the
    distance specified by the linespacing set in points. For example, if you set 10/14
    using a font that has OS/2.TypoAscender = 760, then the first baseline will be
    placed 7.6 pt below the origin of the frame, and each next frame will be offset
    by 14 pt. What you set as TypoDescender or TypoLineGap doesn't really matter.
    \r\n\r\nOf course, many applications don't allow the user to specify lienspacing
    in any way, or rely on some sort of \"default\" linespacing. Of course, it is
    a nice thought that the type designer can set the default linespacing for a typeface.
    In the world we live today, very few applications actually use the \"typographically
    default\" linespacing set by the designer, since other values (hhea or OS/2.Win)
    are used which are actually supposed to be used for other purposes. \r\n\r\nBut
    even if we at some point arrive at the point that all applications use the OS/2.Typo
    information (at least in the fonts with the OS/2.fsSelection field hacked accordingly),
    we will still face a complicated problem: \r\n\r\nThe default linespacing will
    still differ from font to font, thus making it difficult to mix fonts in one document
    (without the user taking complete control over linespacing by specifying it explicitly
    in points). \r\n\r\nIt is obvious that the wider the text column is, the more
    leading the text needs \u2014 the current system, and even the future system (based
    on OS/2.Typo plus fsSelection) have no knowledge of this. \r\n\r\nThe OS/2.Typo-based
    system is and will be useless for purposes of multilingual computing. Linotype\u2019s
    Helvetica World font that you designed and produced is the best example for this.
    No matter which Ascender and Descender fields the applications uses, the one-value-to-serve-all
    approach will never be sufficient. The default linespacing optimized for Western
    European languages will be to tight for Czech and far too tight for Vietnamese,
    but will be too loose for Cyrillic. \r\n\r\nThe OpenType Layout system theoretically
    seems to have a provision for this. The <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/BASE.htm\">BASE</a>
    table specifies means to shift the baseline up and down depending on the script
    and language, and also allows you to define minimum and maximum \"extents\" for
    glyphs, depending on script and language. However, the specification does not
    explify how these extents should be used. Also, just as with the infamous OS/2.Win
    values, the specification seems to throw rasterization issues with linespacing
    issues together. \r\n\r\nWhen reading the spec, one has the overall impression
    that Microsoft engineers were obsessed with the idea that ideal linespacing is
    such that the descenders of the previous line touch the ascenders of the following
    line. \r\n\r\nOr maybe I'm just reading it wrong. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-08-20 12:53:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the built-in linespace of a font has nothing to do with em.</em>\r\n\r\nSure
    it does.\r\nThe built-in linespace IS the UPM size, as you rightly point out.\r\nWe're
    dealing with a Wiki definition, so linespace = leading, and has nothing to do
    with the concept of \"line gap\", as FontLab terms it. \r\n\r\nJohn, I generally
    eyeball my dash widths, taking my cue from the width of the space (again, that's
    eyeballed). After all, it's dysfunctional in a condensed or extended face to derive
    these characters' horizontal width from the vertical UPM value.\r\n\r\nAs the
    traditional \"em\" of metal type has become problematic, and the only place most
    people (other than letterpress folk) encounter it is in regards to the em dash
    and en dash, really just long and short dashes, perhaps there can be two definitons,
    a traditional one about metal type, and a new one:\r\n\r\n\"Em: denotes the longer
    of the two dashes in a font, similar in width to a capital M.\"\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-20 18:47:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Thanks for all the input. This started with \"numberous\" aficionados pointing
    out that \"all 12 pt types are not the same size anyway, so what's the points
    point?\" I wanted to propose a \"virus\" that would scale all latin fonts so the
    Ascent was the y extrema of the H, and the descent was the y extrema of the p.
    Then, I decided to just to do it to my 10,000 favorite fonts, and see what broke
    on the MacMac Apps, then on WindowsMac Apps, and then on WindowsWindowsApps and
    then... I decided to go to the beach instead.\r\n\r\nBut it's still raining, so
    I decided to finish this. It sounds like: the number of definitions of \"point\",
    sizing in general, and more confused interpretations of character widths needs
    to come up to \"speed\" with the near-voodoo appearance to THE EM, before we can
    say with certainty that all the science there was in type design has been removed,
    or at least argued into enough competing theories that it can no longer be taught
    (if that's the word for \"teached\"? not \"tighted\"?:). The good news is, this
    confusion-at-the-core certainly makes it easier to claim there was nothing, and
    introduce a whole new \"science\". \r\n\r\nBut for the mean time, and assuming
    everyone knows now what \"we\" mean by \"an Em\" which is fine as a \"sliding\"
    or Pi-ing\" or what-so-ever dez-finition, as long as the definition includes,
    \"in the context of a point size\", which is a context that all EM-containing
    word/word phrases, besides \"the EM\", should be in, I thunk.\r\n\r\n\u201CThe
    EM: This vertical space represents the distance the 'typesetting system' will
    move when the next line below is located with no extra \u2018leading\u2019or 'linespacing'
    between lines of text. In 'modern font formats', it is usually expressed as the
    Units Per Em, which is then formulated into font scaling with whatever the typesetting
    system is using to specify size of the type, to arrive at a font of the user's
    choice. The Em is also used by the type designer to define the sizing of the letters
    relative to the \"no extra leading or linespacing movement\" made by the typesetting
    system. (In the context of a particular point size, see also \"An Em\", Em Quad\",
    \"Em\u2014Dash\" and \"Em Square\".\r\n\r\nClear, typographically?"
  created: '2006-08-20 19:20:37'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "\u201CThis vertical space represents the distance the \u2018typesetting system\u2019
    will move when the next line below is located with no extra \u2018leading\u2019or
    \u2018linespacing\u2019 between lines of text.\u201D\r\n\r\nI really have a problem
    with this definition. Many modern applications simply DO NOT use the em as the
    measure for zero-leading linespace. Instead, it uses the distance between Ascender
    and Descender. This distance often is different from the em. For any given font,
    the em at 10 pt will always be 10 pt, but the \"built-in linespace\" can be 9,
    9.5, 10, 10.5, 11, or 10.235 pt. \r\n\r\nThe question of LineGap is a fully different
    one. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-21 10:40:55'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "IMHO Em has nothing to do with vertical sizes or proportions. In Art School
    we learned to set type by hand and the Em (or \"vierkantje\" in Dutch, eg \"square\")
    was the body size squared. You'd use an Em to indent.\r\nHalf of an Em (\"halfje\")
    was an En. \r\n\r\nTry to improve upon the old ways\u2026 ; )"
  created: '2006-08-21 14:25:08'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>and the Em (or \u201Cvierkantje\u201D in Dutch, eg \u201Csquare\u201D)
    was the body size squared</cite>\r\n\r\n... which establishes a relation between
    height and width.\r\n\r\nSemi-off-topic, but for it's already been touched:\r\nWhat
    I find a bit odd is making en and em dash 1/2 or 1 UPM wide. To me this looks
    too wide in most cases. However, it would make sense to have 'en' and 'em' dashes
    which have tabular numeral and double tabular numeral width, to be used in tables
    only. But I have no idea which feature may be appropriate. Placing the substitution
    in tnum and pnum would replace them in text too -- which is what I'd like to avoid
    ...\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-21 17:55:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It appears to me that Americans use a wider em dash in general than some
    European countries. I find that the eye is the best judge but this leaves the
    question open to who's eyes.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-21 18:07:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Karsten, Chris, see this on-going thread for discussion of the national differences
    and what is preferable for the em-dash:  http://typophile.com/node/27727\r\n\r\nDavid,
    reading this discussion I suspect there is no way to achieve your goal of a simple,
    single definition of THE EM that suits all output devices--old letterpress and
    digital-to-offset and screen--and all applications. So it may be simpler to define
    the 'the metal em' 'the digital em' etc.\r\n\r\nA bash at it: \r\n\r\nIn metal
    foundry type the EM is the body size (height) of a piece of type in a font, and
    is also normally approximately equal to the width of a cap M. \r\n\r\nIn digital
    type the EM is the square grid upon which glyphs are drawn and encoded. A glyph
    may overlap the em. The latin cap M with sidebearings normally is drawn to roughly
    this width, and the latin ascender plus descender roughly this height. \r\n\r\nWhen
    the digital typeface is printed this EM is used as a unit to scale the output.
    The side of the EM square in the computer drawing  equals the number of points
    specified in the application for printed output, each point being aproximately
    0.0138 inch or 0.3527 mm. For screen output, size of a 'point' is not uniquely
    defined across applications and machines.\r\n\r\n[I don't know if this needs modification
    for bit map fonts.] "
  created: '2006-08-21 18:43:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Many modern applications simply DO NOT use the em as the measure for
    zero-leading linespace.</em>\r\n\r\nYES they do. If you set 14 on 14 in Word,
    that's what you get.\r\nIf you use the default non-numerical line spacing, you
    get the extra 20% or whatever, but this is nowhere defined in relation to leading,
    and you can't add leading to it. It is non-leading linespace, which is not the
    same as zero-leading linespace. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-21 19:11:11'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>Karsten, Chris, see this on-going thread for discussion of the national
    differences</cite>\r\n\r\nOh, didn't notice that this turned into a more general
    thread."
  created: '2006-08-21 19:47:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, Adam's choice of the term 'zero-leading linespace' might have been
    inappropriate, but his basic point is sound: in user experience the distance between
    the baseline of one line of text and the next is most often not determined by
    the em (i.e. nominal body height). Only in professional page layout and design
    apps is linespacing specified, by default, in terms of leading. In word processing
    applications and in CSS driven websites it may be an option, but in almost all
    other apps there it is not even an opion. In text editors, spreadsheets, databases,
    and in the default behaviour of word processors and browsers, linespacing is determined
    by font vertical metrics, and that is not a standardised '20%' linespacing. On
    Windows, almost every application determines default linespacing by combining
    the OS/2 WinAscent and WinDescent values. Since these values were originally specified
    to define glyph extents (to avoid clipping), not to define linespacing, they are
    almost always larger than the em height and determined by the highest and lowest
    outlines in the font.\r\n\r\nSo in a situation in which the linespacing most often
    encountered by users -- and by readers of wikipedia entries -- is determined by
    something other than the em, it seems misleading to equate the em to the distance
    between lines of text. David's suggestion is logical if one knows quite a lot
    about how fonts work, but it doesn't seem to me very helpful for a general reader."
  created: '2006-08-21 20:21:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>nominal body height</em>\r\n\r\nWorks for me."
  created: '2006-08-21 23:45:52'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> nominal body height\r\n\r\nFor me not, because it doesn\u2019t say anything.
    It presumes the knowledge what \"body\" means in typographic terms, and \"nominal\"
    suggests that some external entity defines a convention (\"names\" it). \r\n\r\nIt
    is really very simple: the em is a unit of typographic measurement that is equal
    to the point size of the type used in the text. \r\n\r\nNo more and no less. Linking
    the em to the linespacing is artificial, and only works in some limited context.
    It is true that the \"built-in\" linespacing of a font *sometimes* equals the
    em. But the point size *always* is the em, and that's the only thing that one
    can reliably say about it. \r\n\r\n:)\r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-08-22 09:01:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The power of em-inent domain.\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-22 13:30:10'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I think defining from the carriage return (my wiki attempt), \"forward\"
    to line spacing and \"back\" to the type designer's sizing decision requires a
    general reader to know only what they can see on the screen, the cursor, the CR,
    the type, and not more.\r\n\r\nThe intent of the definition I laid down here,
    was to link the average user experience, to the application/OS's presentation,
    and to the type designers marks. It's possible to point out that the definition
    is flawed because \"somewhere\" in the real world it \"doesn't work,\" sure...but
    trust me, it ain't the definition that's the problem. lol\r\n\r\nIf you *are interested*
    in starting somewhere, from where you can proceed towards understanding the process
    from type design to use, as well as to point out technologies, apps, fonts, designers,
    speakers, organizations and publications that/who do/say otherwise, and why, then
    I'm all set thanks."
  created: '2006-08-22 15:22:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the em is a unit of typographic measurement that is equal to the point
    size of the type used in the text.</em>\r\n\r\nBut that's not true. People (other
    than those in letterpress) don't use ems for measurement, certainly not where
    it's most apparent, in the em-dash, which in practice bears no relationship to
    point size.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-22 19:04:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>But that\u2019s not true. People (other than those in letterpress) don\u2019t
    use ems for measurement...</em>\r\n\r\nActually, it is used quite extensively
    in CSS. One can design scaleable websites entirely in terms of em, which means
    that they scale relative to the size of the body text type size. One can also
    define linespacing in CSS in terms of em, e.g. 1.25 em. It is actually a very
    intelligent way to build scaleable websites, and it is all based on the em being
    equal to the nominal point size of the body text."
  created: '2006-08-22 20:11:34'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> People (other than those in letterpress) \r\n> don\u2019t use ems for measurement\r\n\r\nActually,
    people do. For example, in German and Polish typography, the typical paragraph
    indent prescribed by the typesetting manuals is one em (in German \"Geviert\",
    in Polish \"firet\"). Other values, such as recommended column widths, column
    gaps, are also based on the em. \r\n\r\nNot many people use barleycorns as unit
    of measuring the length, and yet it is one such unit. And I'm sure it does have
    its use, in a limited context. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-08-23 06:14:40'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: 'The em is not equal to each em-dash, but in approximation, or in many cases,
    it is. Similarly, the mechanical horsepower as a measurement unit does not equal
    the operating power of every horse in the world, but it is an approximation. '
  created: '2006-08-23 06:20:14'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: (Needless to mention that the em is rather rarely equal to the width of "M",
    but somehow, the term has been coined.)
  created: '2006-08-23 06:21:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>it is used quite extensively in CSS</em>\r\n\r\nIs that the real em based
    on point size, or the other one, based on WinAscent and WinDescent?\r\n\r\nI note
    that one can also use \"exs\" in CSS as well as \"ems\".\r\n\r\nSpeaking of horsepower,
    horseheight is measured in hands (four inches)."
  created: '2006-08-23 07:12:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Is that the real em based on point size, or the other one, based on WinAscent
    and WinDescent?</em>\r\n\r\nThe em equal to nominal point size. As far as I know,
    no one actually uses the term em to refer to linespacing as determined by OS/2
    table metrics; that is just a possibility -- perhaps a likely conufusion -- suggested
    by David's initial proposition."
  created: '2006-08-23 07:52:49'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Is that the real em based on point size, \r\n> or the other one, based
    on WinAscent and \r\n> WinDescent?\r\n\r\nNick, \r\n\r\nthere is only one em.
    There is no \"other one\". The distance between the ascender line and the descender
    line -- no matter which lines we take as reference -- is not the em. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-08-23 08:38:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "AT: \"the width equal to the em (i.e. to the UPM size)\"\r\nDefine the UPM
    please, but whatever you do, please, don't use the word \"EM\", okay? :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-23 14:10:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>there is only one em.</em>\r\n\r\nLet me rephrase: is the \"em\" used
    in CSS the real em (point size, UPM), or the WinTel \"em\", defined as ascender
    line to descender line?"
  created: '2006-08-23 16:26:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Define the UPM please, but whatever you do, please, don\u2019t use the
    word \u201CEM\u201D, okay? </em>\r\n\r\nUPM = the number of units that define
    the height of the scaleable cartesian grid on which the outline of glyphs in a
    font are plotted."
  created: '2006-08-24 07:22:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Let me rephrase: is the \u201Cem\u201D used in CSS the real em (point
    size, UPM), or the WinTel \u201Cem\u201D, defined as ascender line to descender
    line?</em>\r\n\r\nThere is no 'WinTel' \"em\"'. Em is a measurement equal to the
    nominal point size of a font. That is how it is used in CSS and everywhere else."
  created: '2006-08-24 07:26:55'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Traditionally (metal type), the \"real\" em is the square measure of the
    physical body of the casting, it has less to do per se with the visual size of
    the represented typeface itself, since this differed. But a 12-pt em is a 12-pt
    em, and so on, no matter what is on it. Glyph or not.\r\n\r\nDigitally? Well,
    em squares can easily be worked out with a little effort. If at all that important.\r\n\r\nGerald\r\nhttp://BielerPress.blogspot.com"
  created: '2006-08-24 07:52:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"UPM = the number of units that define the height of the scaleable cartesian
    grid on which the outline of glyphs in a font are plotted.\"\r\n\r\nSo, that makes
    the EM a vertical measure."
  created: '2006-08-24 11:47:44'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Just to complicate this discussion some more: \r\nMonotype (and its licensees)
    used to do custom casting, eg a 11pt Bembo on a 13pt body (just an example!).
    That would make the em-value 13pt for that size of particular type (in the physical
    sense \u2014 the non-printing ems and ens and so on would be 13pt, 6.5 etc. wide
    \u2014 we're still talking about lead). So you can't really state that Em is inherently
    related to any measurement of any typeface.\r\n(I remember this because quality
    typesetting in the Netherlands was mostly Monotype-based and a designer had to
    take in account these variables, because eg spacing caps for titles required the
    use of the various kinds of spaces and you needed to know the exact measurements
    for that.)\r\n\r\nBut to simplify things I'm willing to go for the following definition:
    an Em is a horizontal measure equal to the bodysize of a typeface.\r\n\r\nThe
    fact that webdesigners have seized the Em as a unit for their own wizardry is
    moot \u2014 that's a completely different kind of sport."
  created: '2006-08-24 12:16:21'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"custom casting\"\r\n\r\nBuilding the leading into the face to save time
    does not change the point size or the definition of \"the em.\" It only changes
    the proper selection of \"an em\" when spacing is required in either dimension.\r\n\r\n\"So
    you can\u2019t really state that Em is inherently related to any measurement of
    any typeface.\"\r\n\r\nNobody did. I think the point is that if you can say anything
    about the relationship of the Em to all faces, it is valuable, and if you can't
    then what's typography anyway? :-)"
  created: '2006-08-24 16:15:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>So, that makes the EM a vertical measure.</em>\r\n\r\nInternally to a
    font, that is its function. In typesetting it is also used, perhaps more commonly,
    as a horizontal measure. But it is agnostic about directionality really: you can
    measure in ems vertically or horizontally (certainly within CSS it is used in
    both directions). There is no a priori reason why it shouldn't be used as a diagonal
    measure."
  created: '2006-08-24 17:27:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I think the point is that if you can say anything about the relationship
    of the Em to all faces, it is valuable, and if you can\u2019t then what\u2019s
    typography anyway?</em>\r\n\r\nWhat you can say about the relationship of the
    em to all typefaces is that an em relative to a nominally 10pt type size will
    be 10pt, and relative to a nominally 11pt type size will be 11pt, etc. and this
    is independent of the actual size of the letterforms at those nominal sizes and
    is independent of any built-in linespacing provided by font vertical metrics or
    being cast 'small on the body'."
  created: '2006-08-24 17:32:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I think I've exhausted my devil's advocacy (cue Dezcom pun...)\r\nCan we
    vote now?\r\nOr does Adam still have a problem with John's use of the term \"nominal\"?"
  created: '2006-08-24 18:32:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I think Adam was objecting to 'body height' not to 'nominal'. Of course, nominal
    type size and nominal body height are identical -- and usually invisible in the
    output regardless of type medium -- but body height is a specialist term.
  created: '2006-08-25 02:37:30'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Bieler wrote:\r\n> it has less to do per se with the visual size of the represented
    \r\n> typeface itself, since this differed\r\n\r\nIt still differs. 12 pt Zapfino
    uppercase H is surely of different size than 12 pt Arial\u2019s. \r\n\r\nDavid
    wrote: \r\n> So, that makes the EM a vertical measure.\r\n\r\nWell, sure, but
    one that cannot be easily meaured physically. 12 pt type means that some chunk
    of vertical space is 12 pt high. \r\n\r\nOnto that chunk of vertical space (em),
    some glyphs are drawn, but their physical size can be completely arbitrary --
    only by a convention of some font vendors (first of all Adobe), in most of their
    text typefaces, the height of flat uppercase letters (e.g. \"H\") is 70% of the
    em. \r\n\r\nWhen lines of text are set, the distances between chunks of vertical
    space (ems) differ. If the linespacing is truly equal to one em (e.g. in CSS),
    then the distance between two consecutive baselines is indeed one em. Some professional
    typesetting applications also base the linespacing on the em. Other applications
    use different information to determine default linespacing, most prominently the
    OS/2.WinAscent-OS/2.WinDescent distance on Windows, hhea.Ascender-hhea.Descender
    distance on Mac OS, and OS/2.TypoAscent-OS/2.TypoDescent in some Adobe applications.
    \r\n\r\nJohn, \r\n\r\nyou\u2019re right that I objected to the term \"body height\".
    Since the \"body\" in digital fonts is not really palpable, I prefer not to use
    it. How about this: \r\n\r\nIn digital typography, fonts are designed on a cartesian
    coordinate space. Outline point positions and all metric information are measured
    in so-called \"units\". A square on that space of a specific size (usually 1000
    units) is referred to as an \"em\". When a text is set at a particular point size,
    the font is scaled so that the em is equal to the point size used. "
  created: '2006-08-25 14:33:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John: \"UPM = the number of units that define the height of the scaleable
    Cartesian grid on which the outline of glyphs in a font are plotted.\"\r\n...sounds
    utterly reasonable but it is utterly wrong because the em is a subset of the \"grid\"
    and this \"definition\" says the glyphs are plotted on the UPM.\r\n\r\nThe Grid,
    is 16k something square defined in TT. If you make your EM 256 x 256, you can
    hang out \"a lot\". If you make your grid 16,000-somethingX2, you can't hangout
    at all. That's how that works, that's how that is defined.\r\n\r\nWithout defining
    the relationship between the EM and the composition systems, you have no definition
    for The Em, or the subset of the grid that is defined by upm. Because we have
    a \"definition\" for \"an em\", some people think they know how to define the
    em back from that, which wrong, or at least it don't work in composition in several
    ways. \r\n\r\nIf you read this, John:\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/OTSPEC/TTCH01.htm\r\nIt
    gives \"my\" definition of the em, nearly exactly. Now I'm not sayin' they're
    always right..."
  created: '2006-08-25 19:30:25'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i think that Adams explanation is the clearest and makes the most sense.
  created: '2006-08-25 19:46:25'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"i think that Adams explanation is the clearest and makes the most sense.\"\r\n\r\nState
    it please.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-25 21:33:08'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: EM = UPM
  created: '2006-08-25 21:35:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Or UPM=EM\r\n\r\nAdam: \"OS/2.TypoAscent-OS/2.TypoDescent in some Adobe applications.\"\r\n\r\nDon't
    all Adobe applications use on of the three?"
  created: '2006-08-25 22:45:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, this was Adam's formulation, at the end of his last message:\r\n\r\n<em>In
    digital typography, fonts are designed on a cartesian coordinate space. Outline
    point positions and all metric information are measured in so-called \u201Cunits\u201D.
    A square on that space of a specific size (usually 1000 units) is referred to
    as an \u201Cem\u201D. When a text is set at a particular point size, the font
    is scaled so that the em is equal to the point size used.</em>"
  created: '2006-08-26 00:38:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>\u2026sounds utterly reasonable but it is utterly wrong because the em
    is a subset of the \u201Cgrid\u201D...</em>\r\n\r\nI used the term 'scaleable
    grid' in an effort to succinctly express the idea of the em as the subset of the
    grid that is scaled during type sizing, but I agree that it is unclear and I tried
    to compress the idea too much.\r\n\r\n<em>...and this \u201Cdefinition\u201D says
    the glyphs are plotted on the UPM.</em>\r\n\r\nNo it doesn't. It says that UPM
    defines the number of units of a grid that is scaleable, and that the glyphs are
    plotted on that grid.\r\n\r\nAt some point in this discussion, we might come to
    the conclusion that not everything can be given a definition that is different
    from a complex description, or that a more succinct definition isn't actually
    useful."
  created: '2006-08-26 00:46:42'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>David, this was Adam\u2019s formulation</em>\r\n\r\ni think David wanted
    me to explain what that was in my own words. I think he wanted me to try to prove
    how simple/hard it is to define what the Em is."
  created: '2006-08-26 00:53:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David's correction to my formulation for UPM actually comes very close to
    defining the em:\r\n\r\n<strong>The em is a vertical segment of the cartesian
    grid on which glyphs in a digital font are plotted, whose height is such that
    it matches the nominal point size of scaled type. From this is derived the em
    as a unit of proportional measurement in typesetting.</strong>"
  created: '2006-08-26 03:58:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "E=emc2\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-26 15:58:43'
- author:
    name: Marbux
  body: "This thread is dated, but because it is linked from Wikipedia I will add
    my 2 cents as a retired typographer whose career spanned the transition from hot
    metal to cold type. \r\n\r\nThis conversation has suffered from the nearly complete
    omission of the scalable typographic measurements' purposes. With those principles
    in mind, several of the offered definitions are clearly wrong. \r\n\r\nTaking
    the various spaces in order of their simplicity of explanation, the em quad and
    en quad are units of horizontal white space measurement left over from the late
    hot metal days that have no modern usage. They were used to fill an incomplete
    line of text to justify it. Justification in the hot metal days imported a sense
    of physical pressure as well as text alignment. \r\n\r\nFor handset, pre-cast
    movable type setting, a line of individual characters had to \"lift;\" that is,
    when locked up in a steel \"chase\" frame under pressure for placement on a letterpress,
    the physical pressure had to be right so the line of type would neither push other
    lines out of alignment nor fall out of the composition. Filling incomplete lines
    of text with quads and then progressively thinner spaces to achieve the right
    pressure was called \"quadding.\" Some \"quads\" were multiples of an em, some
    were normal em spaces, then there were the en quad and the various thin spaces.
    In movable type, there was no em or en quad in reality; they were simply the em
    and en spaces put to a different use.\r\n\r\nWhen working with hot metal line
    casting machines such as the Linotype, Intertype, and Monotype, \"quadding\" likewise
    used em and sometimes the en space along with expandable space bands to fill incomplete
    lines. Very important stuff when a \"loose line\" had the nasty habit of persuading
    the machine to squirt molten lead on you. Because of physical limitations on the
    number of character molds (matrices or \"mats\") that could be supported in the
    Linotype and Intertype line-casting machines's systems for automatic sorting and
    recycling of mats, their operators did not commonly use quads that were multiples
    of the em. \r\n\r\nIn later years, many of the hot metal line casting machines
    were equipped with mechanical or hydraulic \"quadders\" that could achieve flush
    left, centering, or flush right by expanding one or two steel bars to fill empty
    space in a line rather than by manual insertion of quad matrices (\"mats\") and
    space bands. They were a time saver, particularly for centering and flush right
    lines, since character mats were automatically added left to right and right and
    center justification required manual manipulation of the quads. Despite the innovation
    of mechanical and hydraulic quadders, most line casting machines were not equipped
    with them by the end of the hot type era.\r\n\r\nBottom line: The em and en *quads*
    are no longer relevant in the digital age. Their survival in the Unicode standard
    is a relic of the very short period of time when computerized hot metal typesetting
    was the norm. The name \"quad\" was undoubtedly a contraction of the geometry
    term, \"quadrangle\" \r\n\r\nThat was the ultra-simple to understand part. But
    it brings us to the real reason for the fixed width of the various typographic
    spaces within a given point size. Quite simply, they are typographic devices for
    alignment of columnar matter. They were largely deprecated in the early years
    of digital typesetting, having been replaced by fixed position tabs, tables, and
    such devices. But they are enjoying a well-deserved resurgence in an era that
    stresses the ability to recycle data in sizes and faces different from the original
    using, e.g., the various offspring of IBM's General Markup Language (GML), such
    as Unicode, XML, XHTML, CSS, and XSL:fo.\r\n\r\nThe one alignment use of the em
    and en spaces that was discussed in this conversation is paragraph indentations
    that will scale to other type sizes without revisiting fixed-width tabs or styles
    used to achieve indentation. That simple example illustrates one major advantage
    of the scalable typographic measurements as compared to fixed-position tabs and
    table cells. However, paragraph indentations do not capture the necessity of maintaining
    the width of the various typographic spaces in all type faces of a given point
    size. There is no particularly compelling reason that paragraph indentations not
    be set at arbitrary widths so long as all faces of the same size -- e.g., Roman,
    bold, and italic -- used in a composition have the same indentation width.  \r\n\r\nThe
    real trick to understanding the scalable typographic spaces is to realize that
    not all characters in a variable-width type face are variable and the scalable
    typographic spaces are devices for alignment of columnar matter. \r\n\r\nThe widths
    of the scalable spaces correspond to various visible characters. E.g., the em
    space corresponds to the width of the em dash and em leader; the width of the
    en space corresponds to the width of the plus and minus signs, the slashes, numerals,
    currency symbols, and the en leader; and the various thin spaces correspond to
    various marks for punctuation. \r\n\r\nThere is some variability in the particular
    width of thin spaces corresponding to punctuation marks, with the newspaper publishing
    industry largely standardized on common punctuation 1/3 em wide and the book and
    academic publishing industries largely standardized on punctuation 1/4 em wide,
    with thinner bodies for some punctuation marks such as the single quotes. \r\n\r\nThe
    reason for the scalable typographical system of measurement is best explained
    by example. Let us assume that you have text followed by one column right aligned
    and another column flush right. In many typesetting systems, the center column
    would be right aligned using a tab. The example won't be captured accurately on
    this page because of the page editor and rendering limitations, so it will take
    a bit of imagination to understand. (This web application does not recognize the
    relevant ASCII or HTML space characters and strips multiple spaces.) Consider
    this example:\r\n\r\n<code>[Text A] $ 1,037     E 824\r\n[Text B]      17        15\r\n[Text
    C]      --        --\r\n[Text D]  18,046    14,074 \r\n</code>\r\n\r\nThe double
    hyphens would be em dashes when typeset and the \"E\" in the TextA line is my
    quick substitute for the Euro symbol. The right alignment would be achieved in
    the first numerical column by calculating and adding the required number of em,
    en, and thin spaces after that column to compensate for the variability in the
    right-most right-aligned column. Then the line would be quadded to fill the space
    between the text and the center column to justify the line. \r\n \r\nLikewise,
    the system allows you to combine and align type of different sizes. Consider the
    formatting that often appears in newspaper advertisements with four lines of 12
    point justified type with a 48 point price on their right and the last line of
    12-point justified with leaders extending to the price. If the price in 48-point
    is $49.95, the experienced typographer can quickly calculate mentally that the
    $49.95 price in 48 point is two ems, on en, and one thin space wide (I'll assume
    a period equal to a one-third em thin space in the price). That width corresponds
    in 12 point to eleven ems plus a thin space for the 12 point indent on the right.
    Add another em in 12 point for horizontal separation from the price, and the 12-point
    lines can be left and right aligned with the desired separation from the 48 point
    price. \r\n\r\nIn the hot type days, that kind of formatting could be achieved
    in only two ways, using the method described with the 48-point price set on the
    first 12 point line with an overhang across the three lower 12 point lines or
    by setting the 48-point and 12 point type on separate lines that were butted together.
    The butted lines method simply asks for errors in composition when associating
    prices with their accompanying texts. Moreover, butting of lines in general was
    considered to be a composition method whose usage was to be avoided if feasible
    because it often introduced \"lift\" and alignment problems once the composition
    was locked up.            \r\n\r\nSuch calculations may seem unwieldy if you are
    not used to doing them. But for experienced typographers, they are near-instinctive.
    Also, there at least used to be \"em\" line gauges in common usage for quickly
    measuring em widths in different sizes so that corrections could be quickly achieved
    without experimentation to determine how another typographer aligned the original
    type.   \r\n\r\nFrom the above discussion, it can be divined that there is no
    permissible variability in the widths of em and en spaces among given type faces
    in a particular point size. A change in type faces from one line to the next must
    not introduce horizontal alignment issues. So, for example, it is incorrect to
    say that the width of the em or en space can validly be affected by the amount
    of leading (additional line spacing) applied between lines of type. All 8 point
    ems are the same width; just so with 10 point ems. Were adjustments made to the
    width of the em or en based on leading between lines, the ability to easily align
    the visible columnar matter would disappear. The width of the em and en are tied
    to the width of their corresponding visual characters, not to the distance between
    lines' type baselines. Adjusting the em size based on linespacing or leading would
    destroy the system. \r\n\r\nMuch confusion has emerged from the habit of typographers
    in the hot era of referring to vertical measurements in \"ems.\" When hot type
    typographers did so, it was understood that ems applied to vertical measurements
    were 12-point ems, equal to one pica. The habit of referring to vertical picas
    as \"ems\" was because there was no commonly understood markup symbol for vertical
    measurements in picas. But the depth of a desired box, for example, could be easily
    indicated as being 12 picas deep simply by drawing a blue pencil square em space
    symbol, writing the number 12 in it, then drawing arrows to indicate that the
    desired measurement was vertical. (In the specification of line widths, the pica
    was implicit in the markup that combined the type size and line length separated
    by a dash, with any deviations from standard leading indicated by a line drawn
    beneath the type size and line length numbers and a number below the line indicating
    the desired leading. So \"10-20\" over \"12\" indicated 10 point type 20 picas
    wide set with two points of vertical leading.)  \r\n\r\nMuch of the confusion
    in modern typography traces to the near-overnight collapse of the typographical
    trade with the advent of computerized \"cold\" typesetting that led to the disappearance
    of the typographical trade in the span of a decade or so. The typographers had
    been the proud custodians of an oral tradition passed down for nearly 500 years.
    \r\n\r\nThe typographers' overnight disappearance marked the ascendency of the
    \"graphic artists\" who for the most part lacked more than rudimentary knowledge
    of typographical skills. At the time, \"graphic arts\" had been a fairly minor
    trade mostly composed of graphic designers from the various ad agencies. They
    generally had few skills in actually composing type, but farmed out their various
    typesetting and composition work to commercial typographers, the actual relevant
    tradesmen. (I owned such a business.)\r\n\r\nAbout the time that the typography
    trade was dying, academia stepped in with programs in \"graphic arts\" to provide
    staff for the rapidly growing demands of ad agencies for graphic artists. But
    academia itself lacked the skills of the typographic tradesmen. The typographers
    themselves were nearly all left to find new lines of work; for example the International
    Typographical Union, then the oldest trade union in North America and an AFL-CIO
    powerhouse, folded; its few remaining typographers merged with the Communications
    Workers of America in 1987. \r\n\r\nThe irony for me? -- That single sentence
    in the first volume of the union's 1951 edition of Lessons in Printing that boldly
    claimed typographers need never worry about their jobs being replaced by automation
    because human languages were too complex to be computerized.\r\n\r\nThe difficult
    part for me and for the tens of thousands of other typographers around the world
    who lost our jobs to automation was watching the accumulated 500-year-old wisdom
    of the typographer's trade -- that incredible oral tradition -- being chucked
    in the dumpster. Only a miniscule amount of that wisdom was ever reduced to writing
    and certainly very little of it was widely automated. Those of us who shared the
    oral tradition now endure the daily shock of viewing a horde of graphic materials,
    e.g., web pages, newspapers, magazines, and television screens, that defy fundamental
    principles of typography. I see perhaps 3 or 4 web pages per year that actually
    approach the former typographical standards of quality. It is a great sadness.
    The world lost something very precious. Today's far lower general typographic
    standards are an embarrassment to humanity. Soon, the last of us will be gone.
    \r\n\r\nSo I feel a moral imperative to add to conversations such as this one,
    explaining a bit of the lore and wisdom of typography. It is gratifying to see
    the scalable typographic measurements in resurgence.  But I shed a mental tear
    whenever I overcome the sadness enough to preserve yet another shred of the history
    of typography. It is a bittersweet task.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-15 10:52:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Buck, there are some books which attempt to pass on the knowledge of typography
    to the current generation. Robert Bringhurst's 'Elements of Typographic Style',
    James Felici's 'The Complete Manual of Typography' and Mitchell & Wightman's 'Book
    Typography' are three excellent books in this line.  \r\n\r\nAnd not least, now
    on Typophile there are some with long experience in typography, including the
    hot metal era, posting with their wisdom on the topics that come up. \r\n\r\nSo
    welcome to Typophile, and I hope you will contribute your insights on the topics
    that come up here. And if you feel that the books above are seriously lacking
    in some area, I would love to hear about it, and I'm sure others on Typophile
    would as well.  \r\n\r\n[There is a typo in your post, where you wrote '6 points'
    instead of '12' to a pica. You can correct posts using the 'edit' link.] "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Marbux
    body: "Thank you William, for the kind words, the invitation, and the proofreading.
      I will beyond doubt accept the invitation to post more often.\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-02-15 18:51:41'
  created: '2007-02-15 13:57:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I also hope you post more!\r\n\r\nThis issue was raised initially by me to
    correct the misconception in Wikipediadom that the em square has something to
    do with typesetting. \r\n\r\nI was seeking to clarify what the interface between
    type designer and composition system is, because most trustworthy typographic
    intelligence in between the type designer's em and the users capabilities is,
    as you say, gone. \r\n\r\nSo, the last solid technical bastion of typography that
    remains in modern systems, upon which whatever quality is to be built, is the
    EM SQUARE of type design. It's probably still wrong 'n wikidom, but I don't care
    as long as there is at least one right em in modern fonts. ;)\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-17 16:28:29'
date: '2006-08-18 15:43:50'
node_type: forum
title: The Em

---
