---
author:
  name: Miguel Sousa
  picture: 110242
body: "Now that [[TypeCon]] is over, it's probably a good time to start thinking about
  the next type conference, <a href=\"http://www.atypi.org/06_Lisbon\">ATypI 2006
  in Lisbon</a>. So, I've decided to put together a few links and start a wiki entry
  about [[Lisbon]], which I hope will serve as a sneak preview and a teaser for the
  many things one can do while attending the conference. The intention was also to
  provide some visual insights of the Portuguese culture. Enjoy!\r\n\r\n[Edit:]\r\nHere's
  the frame of mind you should be on ;^)\r\n<a href=\"http://flickr.com/photos/oma_k/100145481/\">Lazy
  Sunday Afternoon in Alfama</a>"
comments:
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "When ATypI comes to its senses and schedules it's conferece at a time of
    the year when those of us who teach can get away I will happily attend. Taking
    a trip at the 2nd or 3rd week of the semester is not an option.\r\n\r\nJames\r\n\r\nTypeCon
    must have left everyone flat, judging that the post-conference chat is so quiet.
    Perhaps it was all that Dwiggins attendees are still trying to digest."
  children:
  - author:
      name: jayar
    body: "The timing of ATypi conferences is perfect for European educators, whose
      semesters usually start not long after the beginning of October. Having just
      been to a type conference always pumps me up for a fresh start. When it takes
      place in Europe, this time of year would seem to make sense, since I assume
      more Europeans than Americans, Africans or Asians come. As John Hudson mentions,
      the majority seems to prefer this time of year. Still, I think it's useful to
      keep asking, since demographic waves have a habit of changing direction. \r\n\r\nJay
      Rutherford"
    created: '2006-08-22 09:24:36'
  created: '2006-08-20 23:58:15'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>TypeCon must have left everyone flat, judging that the post-conference
    chat is so quiet.</em>\r\n\r\nor hopefully it got everyone all fired up to make
    type so they have less time for talk?"
  created: '2006-08-21 01:02:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "James, the question of the timing of the ATypI conference is one that gets
    raised repeatedly within the organisation, and to date despite the fact that some
    people lament the late September dates that always turns out to be the time that
    the majority of people say they prefer. I'm sensitive to the question of the conference
    dates relative to academic schedules because, as I wrote in the recent member
    newsletter, educators are an increasinly important constituency within ATypI (as
    seen in the extension of the Education Forum to a full afternoon in the Lisbon
    programme). Obviously different countries and different insitutions have different
    schedules, since we regularly get both teachers and students from e.g. Reading,
    but I'd like to get a better picture of the kind of schedules people have, and
    to know what conference dates might work better for them. When would you be most
    like to be able to attend ATypI, James?\r\n\r\nWe'll never make everyone happy,
    of course. I can almost never attend TypeCon because summer is family time (although
    being in Seattle next year makes it much more likely that I'll be able to attend,
    to which I'm looking forward very much)."
  created: '2006-08-21 02:15:10'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "John, I appreciate that different countries have different academic schedules
    and calenders. I would be most likely to attend an ATypI if it were held in late
    May or anytime in June, since my spring semester finishes mid-May. Anytime during
    the month of January would also be possible (Between Fall and Spring semesters),
    but I would think the weather may be an issue with some folks.\r\n\r\nLate October
    would also be a possibility, as would mid March. These times would fall in the
    middle of the semester. With classes well under way it would be easier to miss
    a class without losing too much momentum.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2006-08-21 14:20:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I enjoyed TypeCon.  Like Paul Hunt, I started 3 new fonts. I also have been
    busy doing all the honey-dos I promised to do months ago :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-21 14:25:33'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: chris, we're still waiting on you to FINISH 3 new fonts. :P (easier said than
    done, i know)
  created: '2006-08-21 14:26:13'
- author:
    name: ultrasparky
    picture: 109750
  body: 'Yeah, Chris: didn''t Matthew Carter give you explicit instructions to keep
    building on the great work you''ve already done?'
  created: '2006-08-21 15:40:45'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\n>didn\u2019t Matthew Carter give you explicit instructions \r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ebensorkin/214838054/in/pool-typecon/\r\n\r\n\"make
    your type less blurry\" \r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2006-08-21 16:03:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have got to get new glasses :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-21 16:15:06'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Are you coming to Lisbon, Chris?
  created: '2006-08-21 16:37:52'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "While I am currently not teaching I can relate to James' dilemma. I'd personally
    love it if ATypI were in late Spring. Split up my extended travel season a little
    bit more. \r\n\r\nMiguel, that wiki entry is amazing, thank you."
  created: '2006-08-21 17:18:56'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "May might be difficult for some Europeans; TYPO-Berlin, which is Europe's
    largest graphic design conference (I think) is usually the middle weekend in May.
    It has always seemed to me that a sizable group of designers who attend the ATypI
    conference also attend TYPO-Berlin.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I'm not sure that there
    is any time of year that is good for everone. The ATypI conference seems to be
    geared toward European schedules, but this year's date cannot be good for European
    professors or students, can it? Don't the winter semesters in several countries
    begin just before, or the day after, this year's ATypI?"
  created: '2006-08-21 17:26:09'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Well, the date change is only a secret wish, not a need on my part. I'm still
    attending and cannot wait to see all of my ATypI friends/associates and to walk
    the streets of Lisbon.
  created: '2006-08-21 17:29:54'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I agree, Miguel's link collection on the Lisbon wiki page is top notch!\r\n\r\nI
    can't wait to go church-hoping and pavement stone searching\u2026 how am I going
    to find time to go to all the events???"
  created: '2006-08-21 17:32:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Dan,\r\nSadly, no, I can't come to Lisbon.  I have more than used up my quota
    of type events for the year.  I have to build up more equity before I dare pose
    a trip to my wife again :-)\r\nMiguel has made it sound oh so tempting though!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-21 17:40:55'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Regardless of venue, the Americans make up the majority of attendees to all
    ATypI conferences. Because of this fact, several years ago, ATypI was entertaining
    the notion of holding the conference in North America, every other year. This
    has not come to pass. From what I understand, when the conference was held in
    Lyon, there were suprisingly few French atendees. Go figure.
  created: '2006-08-22 14:39:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Oh? \"TypeCon must have left everyone flat, judging that the post-conference
    chat is so quiet.\"\r\nSome conferences provide answers so well, the only possible
    post-activity is getting to work. I\u2019m already looking at...you\u2019ll see.
    \r\n\r\nT: \"Well, the date change is only a secret wish, not a need on my part.\"\r\nIt
    is for a lot people, though never will it be realized in ATypI, who's \"Dates\"
    were originally perfect for middle-aged and older design, management and marketing
    types who's children, crops and livestock were tended by devoted servants and
    services whilst the masters frolicked. \r\n\r\nSomeday, Somecon will recognize
    the plain and simple fact that 90% of the industry resides in the northern hemisphere. "
  created: '2006-08-23 16:01:00'
- author:
    name: gthompson
    picture: 109676
  body: "Typecon got me charged up this year despite the fact that I came home ill.
    I've been sitting here working hard.\r\n\r\nATypI dates used to work better for
    me as my school was on a later schedule, but now we're in line with other U.S.
    schools so it's inconvenient but not impossible. A week or two later would work
    better. Due to other travel and events, fall is the only time available for me.\r\n\r\nMadeira!
    Didn't even think about that. What happened to the link?\r\n\r\nGeorge \r\nI felt
    bad because I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
  created: '2006-08-23 23:39:49'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "><em>Madeira! Didn\u2019t even think about that. What happened to the link?</em>\r\n\r\nDunno.
    Just e-mailed the photographer.\r\n\r\nBTW, there's a new link to the Flickr pool
    <a href=\"http://flickr.com/groups/lisboa-na-rua/pool/\">Lisboa na Rua</a> (On
    the streets of Lisbon)."
  created: '2006-08-24 00:27:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Regardless of venue, the Americans make up the majority of attendees
    to all ATypI conferences. Because of this fact, several years ago, ATypI was entertaining
    the notion of holding the conference in North America, every other year.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    stated policy beginning in the mid-90s was to try to have a North American conference
    one in four years. But this reflected the North American <em>membership</em> levels,
    not the North American conference attendance. I'm afraid your comment about Americans
    being 'the majority of attendees to all ATypI conferences' isn't true, James.
    As representatives from a single nation, they are often the largest group, but
    they are not the majority overall. Furthermore, and problematically for ATypI,
    our conferences in North America are never as well attended as our conferences
    in Europe. San Francisco in 1994 was a small conference. Vancouver in 2003 had
    only 260 attendees including speakers (against an average of 350-400 attendees
    at European conferences in recent years). My memory of Boston in 1999 was that
    it was larger than San Francisco or Vancouver, but perhaps that was in part due
    to the relative proximity to Europe. In North America, there is much more competition
    from other design conferences and recently from Typecon. At the Prague ATypI,
    some of our board members met with SOTA board members to discuss this, and from
    our perspective the question is very much 'How best can ATypI continue to mount
    events in North America?' i.e. it is very much something that we want to do. We're
    overdue for a North American conferences, and although we have not confirmed the
    location yet, I'm pretty confident that you can expect one in the near future.
    I'm very willing to look at the dates for such a conference in the context of
    what will work best for the majority of our members from the Americas."
  created: '2006-08-24 00:35:16'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "Thanks a lot for the links and information on Lisbon, Miguel. It's been 18
    years since I was last there, so your suggestions are very welcome.\r\n\r\nWhere
    is everyone going to stay? When are you arriving and leaving?\r\n\r\nI'm staying
    at <a href=\"http://www.residencialflorescente.com\" target=\"_blank\">Residencial
    Florescente</a>, arriving on Sunday, Sep. 24, and leaving on Monday, Oct. 2.\r\n\r\nMiguel,
    what do you suggest for people who, like me, only have a couple of free days before
    or after the conference? With so many options, one needs to prioritize. Of course
    it's all a matter of personal taste etc, but it'd be interesting to hear how <em>you</em>
    would spend two or three days in Lisbon as a tourist."
  created: '2006-08-24 00:43:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>It is for a lot people, though never will it be realized in ATypI...</em>\r\n\r\nOnce
    again, the ATypI board frequently raises this question with members, and the response
    has regularly been that although no one date pleases everyone the majority of
    people who respond end up saying that September is as good a time as any and better
    than most. This was the result of the last formal survey, and has also been the
    result of every informal discussion on the member email list. And here we are
    revisiting this question again, and here I am as vice-president of ATypI suggesting
    that I want to review the dates in terms of the increasing importance of the educational
    constituency within ATypI (but acknowledging, as Jay notes, the difference between
    North American and European academic schedules). So I think there is a very good
    chance of a generally preferred date being realised in ATypI, if such a preference
    actually exists.\r\n\r\nWhen would you like the ATypI conference to be, David?\r\n\r\n<em>Someday,
    Somecon will recognize the plain and simple fact that 90% of the industry resides
    in the northern hemisphere.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't understand the significance of
    this observation. It's not like the ATypI conference is dependent on the late
    summer harvest or other seasonal occurence. Can you explain?"
  created: '2006-08-24 00:47:57'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "><em>how you would spend two or three days in Lisbon as a tourist.</em>\r\n\r\n<strong>First
    day</strong>, Lisbon\r\nIn addition to the classics, <a href=\"http://www.ippar.pt/english/patrimonio/mundial/jeronimos.html\">Monastery
    of the Jer\xF3nimos and Tower of Bel\xE9m</a>, I'd walk around <a href=\"http://typophile.com/wiki/Lisbon#downtown\">downtown</a>
    and the <a href=\"http://typophile.com/wiki/Lisbon#neighborhoods\">old neighborhoods</a>,
    always trying to avoid the big malls and stores that you can find anywhere in
    the world. (Hopefully we'll have a late-Summer sunny week). I'd also visit the
    new part of the city, <a href=\"http://typophile.com/wiki/Lisbon#expo\">Parque
    das Na\xE7\xF5es</a>, which was refurbished from top to bottom to held <a href=\"http://www.parquedasnacoes.pt/en/expo98/\">Expo
    98</a>.\r\n\r\n<strong>Second day</strong>, Sintra (20Km West of Lisbon)\r\nTake
    the commute train and get off at the end of the line; if you took <a href=\"http://www.cp.pt/cp/displayPage.do?vgnextoid=87cbd5abe2a74010VgnVCM1000007b01a8c0RCRD&lang=en\">the
    right train</a>, you'll be in <a href=\"http://typophile.com/wiki/Lisbon#sintra\">Sintra</a>.
    (You'll also notice the difference in the air's quality, and its humidity :^).
    This is definitely a <em>must see</em>!! The Cultural Landscape of Sintra was
    classified as <a href=\"http://whc.unesco.org/en/list/723\">World Heritage</a>
    by Unesco in 1995. There you can visit the <a href=\"http://www.pbase.com/diasdosreis/image/50512811\">old
    Villa</a>, the <a href=\"http://www.pbase.com/diasdosreis/image/16017832\">Pal\xE1cio
    da Vila</a> (right downtown), the <a href=\"http://www.pbase.com/diasdosreis/image/15798003\">Mourish
    Castle</a>, the <a href=\"http://www.pbase.com/diasdosreis/image/53521500\">Pal\xE1cio
    da Pena</a>, and the <a href=\"http://www.pbase.com/diasdosreis/image/29244272\">Quinta
    da Regaleira</a>, which holds many secrets of <a href=\"http://www.pbase.com/diasdosreis/image/29243767\">Masonic
    and Templar rituals</a>. Along the way you'll find other places of interest, like
    the <a href=\"http://www.pbase.com/diasdosreis/image/17058170\">City Hall</a>,
    and the <a href=\"http://www.pbase.com/diasdosreis/image/17058179\">Moorish Fountain</a>,
    for example.\r\n\r\n<strong>Third day</strong>\r\nIf you feel adventurous enough,
    hop on a train heading North (start from <a href=\"http://www.parquedasnacoes.pt/en/comochegar/Default.asp\">Oriente
    Station</a>), and visit <a href=\"http://www.pbase.com/diasdosreis/tomar\">Tomar</a>
    (another <a href=\"http://www.worldheritagesite.org/sites/tomar.html\">World Heritage
    site</a>), <a href=\"http://www.santuario-fatima.pt/portal/index.php?lang=EN\">F\xE1tima's
    Sanctuary</a>, <a href=\"http://www.pbase.com/diasdosreis/coimbra\">Coimbra</a>,
    or <a href=\"http://www.pbase.com/diasdosreis/porto_e_o_douro\">Oporto</a>. Portugal
    is a fairly small country, so a train ride to Oporto (the most Northern city I
    mentioned) would take only about 3 hours."
  created: '2006-08-24 02:38:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Miguel is making it sound way too tempting again!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-08-24 02:55:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "More on attendance by nationality:\r\n\r\nI don't have analysis of past conferences
    handy, but Ross made a tally of the current registrations for the Lisbon conference.
    Of course, these numbers are expected to change, but I don't think they will alter
    so radically as to make Americans the majority. As of today, delegates from the
    US account for 16.45% of registered attendees. Europeans currently account for
    a little more than 60% of registered attendees, which is in line with my impression
    of recent conferences. The Russians are currently in the lead at 17.11%.\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hands, the great majority of ATypI's sponsorship comes from US-based
    companies, albeit mainly from ones with very significant international presence."
  created: '2006-08-24 06:20:03'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: Miguel, as far as I'm concerned, you're ATypI 2006's Official Tour Guide.
    :-) Thank you very much for the suggestions.
  created: '2006-08-24 13:01:07'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John: \"...Boston in 1999 was []  larger than San Francisco or Vancouver,
    but perhaps that was in part due to the relative proximity to Europe\"\r\n\r\nSure
    Boston is closer to Europe, than say Wichita...but it was bigger than S.F. 'n
    Vanc. because the content was geared to a wider audience, not because it was easy
    to get to. Only 5% of the content was technical (and that was solid stuff as opposed
    to \"whatever\" over and over again ;) ), we loaded up on internationally respected
    graphic designers and other proven practicers of our art and got graphic designers
    to come.\r\n\r\nJohn: \"We\u2019re overdue for a North American conferences, and
    although we have not confirmed the location yet...\"\r\n\r\nHow much would it
    cost to sponsor the whole thing to ensure entirely unsponsored content? Let me
    know. \r\n\r\n>90% of the industry resides in the northern hemisphere\r\nJohn:
    \"I don\u2019t understand the significance of this observation\"\r\n\r\nThe earth,
    is round, and it tilts on its axis seasonally. During the summer months, it's
    warm and pleasant in the N. hemisphere, and cold and often unpleasant in the winter
    time. Enough?\r\n\r\nJohn: \"When would you like the ATypI conference to be, David?\"\r\n\r\nJan
    or Feb., in Cancun."
  created: '2006-08-24 13:27:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>How much would it cost to sponsor the whole thing to ensure entirely
    unsponsored content?</em>\r\n\r\nAre we talking about the conference programme
    or the pre-conference TypeTech Forum content? The former is largely the result
    of submissions made to an open call for papers, voted on by a programme committee
    that doesn't involve any sponsors and is largely established before sponsorship
    commitments are made. So I'm not sure how it would be different if you set out
    to 'ensure entirely unsponsored content', unless you prohibited the programme
    committee from selecting presentations submitted by individuals who work for companies
    that might possibly sponsor the conference.\r\n\r\nThe TypeTech Forum programme
    is compiled by a team of volunteers, who at the moment happen to be Tiffandy Wardle,
    Tom Phinney and Si Daniels because they're the people who offered to do it. Ross
    and I used to do it, but gave it up in 2003 because we were too busy with the
    rest of the Vancouver conference. I'd be happy to see the programme be more 'independent'
    and driven by font developers rather than software developers, but that means
    someone getting involved at that level. Must be willing to work with others."
  created: '2006-08-30 04:54:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "[Publicity]\r\n\r\n\r\nATypI Lisbon 2006 features a number of specialized
    threads this year, all included in the two tracks of the main conference program.\r\n\r\n<strong>THE
    BUSINESS OF TYPE - Carima El-Behairy, Moderator</strong>\r\nMathias Zimmer-Goertz
    : Fonts & intellectual property protection\r\nThe Business of Type panel discussion:
    Petra Weitz, Carima \r\nEl-Behairy, Tiffany Wardle, Veronika Elsner\r\n\r\n<strong>THE
    TYPOGRAPHY OF THE JOURNEY - Maxim Zukhov, Moderator</strong>\r\nPaul Stiff : Telling
    and showing everyday journeys\r\nJulia Lila : A journey into the future\r\nErik
    Spiekermann : Travel typography\r\nMassimo Vignelli : Signs and type\r\n\r\n<strong>NEWSPAPERS
    AND TYPE - Mark Barratt, Moderator</strong>\r\nRoger Black : Newspaper design
    in the Americas\r\nMark Porter : Redesigning the Guardian\r\nPaul Barnes & Christian
    Schwartz : Does type design matter in newspapers?\r\nGerard Unger : The role of
    newspaper type in developing a unique voice \t\r\nNewspaper Design panel discussion
    : Paul Barnes, Mark Barratt, Roger Black, Javier Errea, Mark Porter, Christian
    Schwartz, Gerard Unger\r\n\r\n<strong>EDUCATION IN TYPE - Gerry Leonidas, Moderator</strong>\r\nMark
    Jamra : Multiple exposures \t\r\nDavid Cabianca: Practicing theory \t\r\nPeter
    Bain : Digital lettering\r\nJay Rutherford : The Digital Design Image Archive
    (DDIA) \t\r\nFilip Bla\u017Eek : Diacritics project \t\r\nMark Barratt & Gerry
    Leonidas : The new education forum\r\n\r\nDetails will be forthcoming for the
    <strong>BRAZILIAN DESIGN FORUM</strong>, now relocated (from the preceding Wednesday)
    and included during the main conference programme to enable more people to attend.\r\n\r\nGo
    to http://atypi.org/06_Lisbon/30_program/20_main_program for \r\ndetailed program
    listings or http://atypi.org/store to register."
  created: '2006-08-30 05:02:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Some conferences provide answers so well,\r\n> the only possible post-activity
    is getting to work.\r\n\r\nWhile other conferences do this by providing <cite>questions</cite>.
    \ :-)\r\nDifferent people get motivated by one or the other to different degrees.
    After ATypI-Leipzig I started on Nour&Patria, while at TypeCon-SF I found myself
    spending too much time attending the tea & muffin programming track... :-/ personally
    I get tired of \"Hey look at this cool poster I made\" <cite>real</cite> quick-like.\r\n\r\n>
    90% of the industry resides in the northern hemisphere.\r\n\r\nBut where is 90%
    of the future coming from?\r\n\r\n> From what I understand, when the conference
    was held in Lyon, there were suprisingly few French atendees.\r\n\r\n> our conferences
    in North America are never as well attended as our conferences in Europe.\r\n\r\nI
    think these go to show that a big reason many people go to ATypI (and TypeCon,
    although I suspect to a lesser extent) is the adjunct tourism! Hence the fact
    that \"Jan or Feb., in Cancun.\" is only <cite>partly</cite> a joke... well, I
    assume!  :-)\r\n\r\n> We\u2019re overdue for a North American conference\r\n\r\n?\r\nYou
    might be miffing a certain country with this apparent exclusion...  :->\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-22 16:53:16'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "The ATypI Lisbon 2006 conference organizers have just published the conference
    program brochure and the TypeTech Forum program leaflet on the web. The two PDF
    files are available for download at: \r\n\r\nhttp://www.atypi.org/06_Lisbon/30_program/20_main_program\r\n\r\nOf
    course, all TypeTech forum and all conference participants will receive the printed
    versions in Lisbon, but you may want to download the files now for reference.
    \r\n\r\nBest, \r\nAdam\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-22 19:31:51'
date: '2006-08-20 22:13:29'
node_type: forum
title: Ready for ATypI Lisbon?

---
