---
author:
  name: Erik Fleischer
  picture: 111193
body: "I mentioned in the topic <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/27356\" target=\"_blank\"><em>Typographic
  heresy</em></a> a few weeks ago that I might try and set <em>Alice's Adventures
  in Wonderland</em> as an exercise. Well, I did just that, and would very much like
  to read your comments.\r\n\r\nI still have to design the cover and check the whole
  thing from beginning to end for messed up bits of text etc, but other than that
  the book is finished -- I think...\r\n\r\nI would especially welcome comments on:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>page
  and text block format, size and proportions (page is A5, a convenient format in
  Europe and many other parts of the world);</li>\r\n<li>appropriateness of typefaces
  (Quadraat for text, Quadraat Sans for chapter titles, Poetica for poem on p. 106);</li>\r\n<li>size
  and placement of chapter titles and chapter numbers;</li>\r\n<li>optical alignment
  of left margins;</li>\r\n<li>ragged right margins;</li>\r\n<li>size and placement
  of illustrations (I resized most illustrations so they would fit my design);</li>\r\n<li>kerning
  problems (I edited the kerning tables of both Quadraat and Quadraat Sans to improve
  the fit of comma + single-quote, comma + double-quote, single-quote + several letters
  [indicating elision], and a few more pairs).</li>\r\n<li>running footers (of which
  I'm not very fond -- they kind of mess up the text block to page proportions);</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nAny
  other comments are also very welcome, of course.\r\n\r\nI'm making two press-quality
  PDFs available: <a href=\"http://erikf.net/portfolio/aaiw/aaiw_pages.pdf\" target=\"_blank\">one
  with single pages</a>, <a href=\"http://erikf.net/portfolio/aaiw/aaiw_spreads.pdf\"
  target=\"_blank\">the other with spreads</a> (better to examine design).\r\n\r\n----------\r\n\r\n<strong>Important
  update</strong>\r\n\r\nIf you are new to this thread, please read about the latest
  revision <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/27817/155399\" target=\"_blank\">here</a>
  before posting comments.\r\n\r\nQuick links to latest revision:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li><a
  href=\"http://erikf.net/portfolio/aaiw/aaiw_spreads_r2.pdf\" target=\"_blank\">Book</a></li>\r\n<li><a
  href=\"http://erikf.net/portfolio/aaiw/aaiw_covers.pdf\" target=\"_blank\">Covers</a></li>\r\n</ul>"
comments:
- author:
    name: Greg Stanton
  body: "You asked, so here goes...\r\n\r\nPost-modern design (and type) has its place,
    but I'm not sure it's appropriate for a Victorian novel -- even if the novel is
    a little \"off.\" Your layout is good, but it makes it look like a textbook rather
    than familiar fiction.\r\n\r\nRunning headers, or in this case footers, are little
    more than dressing. Most people know what book they are reading. They are a tradition
    in American book typography, much less so in British. It's not an offensive practice,
    I'm just philosophically opposed to it. Page numbers are sufficient.\r\n\r\nIf
    you are going with running footers, it's ok to use them on the first pages of
    chapers. Headers usually interfere with the title of a chaper, which is why they
    are omitted. If your page numbers are at the foot of a page, it's fine to number
    your chapter openings (it's also useful).\r\n\r\nJustified type is easier to read
    in long stretches, which is why all prose books are formatted in this way. There
    was a movement to set books RR in the early 20th century -- Eric Gill's book was
    one of the first to push for this \"innovation.\" It never caught on, and for
    good reason: it's tiring to read. Even though setting justified type poses it's
    own set of problems for the typesetter, it is nearly always preferable to RR or
    RL.\r\n\r\nYour bastard title is leaded too wide. It's ONE title, and should appear
    as such.\r\n\r\nOn the title page, the Illustrator should appear closer to the
    author's name, and the publisher should appear at the bottom.\r\n\r\nChapters
    do NOT have to always be on the right. It is an absurd waste of good paper.\r\n\r\nYou
    have generally integrated the illustrations with the text quite well. I will point
    out the the illustration on page 53 is not well-handled. I know how it was originally
    placed on the page, top to bottom. You should probably at least flow the text
    down the left side of it, and perhaps bring it to the top of the page.\r\n\r\nPlacing
    the illustration for chaper 7 at the bottom of the page of chaper 6 is akward.
    You should bring it over to page 58.\r\n\r\nI don't like the way the insets for
    \"Father William\" dance all over the pages. Also, the poem should begin right
    after \"Alice folded her hands, and began:\" Instead you've placed an illustration
    in that spot.\r\n\r\nYou should use kerned lining figures for the chaper openings
    instead of oldstyle figures. OS figures SHOULD be used within text, but by themselves
    it makes your chapter numbers look like they are set in two different sizes. It
    looks like a mistake.\r\n\r\nYour chapters begin with a drop cap, which is fine,
    but when they are accompained by an open quote you should reduce the size of the
    quote mark.\r\n\r\nAll those swashes in the last poem? What possessed you? They
    are distracting. And where did the page numbers go on this spread?\r\n\r\nLine
    length/type size/leading are good and balanced.\r\n\r\nI have not checked your
    line breaks, spacing, etc. This critique was just for the layout. Hope this was
    helpful.\r\n\r\n "
  children:
  - author:
      name: mondoB
    body: "Suggestions:\r\n--Don't use sans serif anywhere for this title. Your title
      pages are way too bald and blank.\r\n--Quaadrat may be a little too condensed
      and tight for this title. I suggest ITC Bodoni Twelve or Wessex or FF Scala
      (a really stylish choice) or Storm Walbaum Text--fatter character proportions
      for a more leisured Victorian look without being too obvious.\r\n--Make splashier
      use of the famous illustrations, especially on title page and section starts.\r\n--Use
      U&LC italic for the running chapter folios at bottom--less intrusive, shorter,
      more delicate"
    created: '2006-09-08 11:19:08'
  created: '2006-08-22 00:44:49'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "I generally agree with what George has to say, except for the justification
    thing. If it feels right for the text, then let it be. I am not aware of any research
    that suggests justification is easier to read. \r\n\r\nGet rid of Quadraat Sans,
    just use the serif. The sans is jarring.\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2006-08-22 01:26:17'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "Wow, Greg... Squashed me against the floor, dragged your foot and left a
    trail of green juices... :o)\r\n\r\nNow seriously, this is the kind of feedback
    I'd pay for if I were making any money off this project. Thanks a LOT. As soon
    as I can find the time, I'll implement your suggestions (at least some of them)
    and post a link to a new version of the book.\r\n\r\nThank you, too, Kris.\r\n\r\nI'm
    eager to read more comments..."
  created: '2006-08-22 02:00:22'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I don't have time unfortunately for the sort of thoughtful critique Greg
    gave but have a few first impressions.\r\n\r\nWHy did you choose Quadraat? I've
    never been a fan but in particular think you could choose either a very simple
    and elegant period font or something with more whimsy. I don't think the sans
    is suited to the material. Particularly don't like it for the chapter number.\r\n\r\nAgree
    the text  should be justified. I think the drop cap is a little dull. I'd either
    give it more presence or eliminate it. Have you considered running an opening
    line or phrase in small caps? That might give it an old fashioned feel.\r\n\r\nThink
    you give too much space around the running foot. I'd lower it and add a line or
    two of text or else put more margin at top. I see no reason for the left running
    foot to be the book title (have NEVER understood that convention). I'd put the
    chapter title on both, or perhaps the folio only on one and the title on the other?
    \r\n\r\nAgree you don't need to start chapters only on the recto.\r\n\r\nPage
    12 - why not rag the type around the image as in other places?\r\n\r\nAgree re
    page 53 - move pic to top of page.\r\n\r\nHate the Poetica. "
  created: '2006-08-22 02:00:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Quadraat + engravings = disharmony.\r\nQuadraat would work with a looser
    style of traditonal line drawing, eg Edward Ardizzone\r\n\r\nI like the idea of
    the rag-right text columns wrapping round the irregular shape of the illustrations.\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-22 02:40:28'
- author:
    name: Greg Stanton
  body: "Hey! I wasn't that rough!\r\n\r\nOne more teeny thing. The title should be
    broken logically.\r\n\r\nAlice's Adventures\r\nin Wonderland\r\n\r\nOR\r\n\r\nAlice's\r\nAdventures\r\nin
    Wonderland\r\n\r\nI know there are a few editions on the market that break like
    yours -- the title looks more even when broken this way. It is more important
    to convey information than to create a pleasing shape with the type.\r\n\r\nYou
    can learn a lot from, believe it or not, looking at Penguin paperbacks. Hardcover
    books or collectors editions would have bigger margins, but Penguin is peerless
    when it comes to clean page design that is completely subservient to the text.\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-22 03:11:55'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Lots of excellent comments, particularly in setting it ragged, but everyone
    else seems to have missed my pet peeve.\r\n\r\nPerhaps the best (IMVHO) reason
    to set it ragged is to hose the hyphenation.  Books for children to read, or to
    be used by adults to read to children, shouldn't ever see a hyphen: it's hard
    on the kids, and invariably means that an adult will mispronounce a word.\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-08-22 23:51:44'
- author:
    name: Greg Stanton
  body: "You still need to hypenate ragged-right text -- perhaps less than you would
    justified. You cannot allow a computer to break your lines for you.\r\n\r\nA book
    for very young children should not be hypenated, of course, but AAIW is not for
    little kids, it's approrpiate for children 11-12 (and adults!). Judiciously hypenated
    texts will not pose a problem for children this age.\r\n\r\nI read extensively,
    and I have to say that reading RR text is very taxing in long stretches. Probably
    just as taxing as reading text set in Linotype Didot. If you are publishing, say,
    an art book compristed mainly of photos or illustrations flanked by commentary,
    RR would not be a problem. It's fine in cookbooks too. Long prose, chapters, short
    stories, or novels should really be set justified.\r\n\r\nGo to a book store or
    library. Find a novel set RR. Good luck."
  created: '2006-08-23 00:11:45'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "Thank you all so very much for your feedback. And I still hope to read more
    comments from other people.\r\n\r\nFor now, I'd like to explain why I did certain
    things. My intention is not to say \"I know what I'm doing\", but to explain my
    reasoning so that you can see where I'm coming from and tell me why you think
    I'm wrong.\r\n\r\n(a) I chose Quadraat because I think it's a pretty good text
    face, and it's also quite quirky, which I felt matched the mood of the text. Also,
    I don't own a large number of typefaces, and wanted to try and make do with what
    I already had (considering this is primarily an exercise).\r\n\r\nMy other choice
    was Esprit, which I quite like and which would probably suit the text even better,
    but the version I have (Adobe's) doesn't have text figures and that pretty much
    killed the esprit.\r\n\r\n(b) I agree that Quadraat Sans doesn't look quite right,
    but I was trying to put little touches here and there to make the book look a
    little less 18th century for modern audiences. I'll probably ditch it.\r\n\r\n(c)
    I don't like the running footers (see my original post), but felt I'd go with
    convention. The vast majority of the books I own (including some on book design!)
    have running headers or footers. But in light of your feedback, I'll be more than
    happy to do away with the footers.\r\n\r\n(d) I went with ragged right because
    from everything I've read (including His Eminence Robert Bringhurst) RR is a good
    choice for anything that's not too formal. I personally also find it kind of strange,
    but I decided to stick with it, maybe learn a new trick. Was not aware of any
    scientific research about readability of justified v. RR.\r\n\r\n(d) I'm all for
    saving paper, but wanted to give the book an airier feel, which is why I started
    every chapter on a recto. Guess that was a bad idea...\r\n\r\n(e) The use of Poetica
    with all those extravagant swashes was completely deliberate. I've known this
    poem by heart ever since I saw a Dutch film (I think) called Malpertuis ages ago,
    and to me its dreamy and romantic mood called for something over the top. My main
    concern is if it's too dissonant in relation to the rest of the book.\r\n\r\n(f)
    All illustrations are aligned either within the margins of the text block or to
    a \"blind margin\" (just made up this term) near the fore-edge and/or the tail.
    That's why illustrations on versos are placed to the left of the text and so the
    text running around them is aligned (not ragged left, which would be absurd).
    Placing illustrations towards the spine would break the balance of the page, especially
    because the wider margins are fore-edge and tail.\r\n\r\n(g) There's little space
    at the top because I chose to fit a golden mean (proportions between text block
    height and width) inside an A5; top and spine margins are the same, as are fore-edge
    and tail.\r\n\r\nAgain, I'm not defending myself; if anyone disagrees with anything
    I said, please show me the error of my ways. And if I didn't comment on a specific
    suggestion someone made, it's probably because I completely agree with it and
    cannot think of a reason not to implement it."
  created: '2006-08-23 02:56:07'
- author:
    name: Greg Stanton
  body: "Hey Erik, if that was the first book design you've done, it was excellent.\r\n\r\nIf
    you worked for a major publisher, it would go through 10-20 rounds of revisions
    before your art director signed off on it. And that's if you had 20 years experience.
    Then the big wigs would have to approve it too.\r\n\r\nI'm looking forward to
    the revision :)"
  created: '2006-08-23 05:49:41'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Greg - I can't imagine a book interior going thru 10-20 rounds of revision!
    Covers, maybe. In my experience the bigwigs don't much care what the interior
    of the book looks like unless it's an illustrated book and even then they don't
    really pay attention to it. In most trade publishing houses the interiors department
    is more or less left alone.\r\n\r\nErik - running text rag left around an image
    isn't absurd at all. I find the hard edge on those pages jarring. Agree that the
    illustrations should be at the outer margins, not the gutter.\r\n\r\nThere are
    other dreamy fonts besides Poetica that would be less dissonant. I'm still not
    loving the Quadraat for this project either. "
  created: '2006-08-23 06:04:13'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "Thanks for your words of encouragement, Greg.\r\n\r\nI'm currently based
    in Brazil, and the vast majority of books here lack even the most basic typographic
    refinements. You'd be hard put to find a book published in Brazil that uses standard
    ligatures; unspaced slanted capitals are routinely used for titles; publishers
    have a fixation with condensed (mostly artificially compressed) Romantic faces
    for body copy; no-one's apparently ever heard of choosing text faces that harmonize
    with the nature of books or newspapers; and it's all downhill from there.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    one day I'll be able to work someplace where books undergo several revisions with
    art directors that actually have a clue about typographic design... :o)"
  created: '2006-08-23 13:40:28'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "Patty, just had a look at your web site. Really like your work.\r\n\r\nOn
    the subject of setting text ragged left around illustrations at the outer margin
    on versos, you obviously know what you're talking about, but doesn't that make
    it horribly difficult to read unless it's just a couple of lines?"
  created: '2006-08-23 13:51:33'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Thanks!\r\n\r\nNo I don't think it would be hard to read, but why not try
    it and see."
  created: '2006-08-23 15:40:46'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Greg:  If I'm faced with a line that is excessively short in RR, I'd rather
    mess around (gently!) with word and letterspacing to fix it than insert a hyphen
    to fill out a line.  For me (and my clients), it's a matter of readability.  \r\n\r\nErik:
    \ This is great for a first go.  I've worked on books where the interior has gone
    through multiple iterations, particularly in nonfiction, where \"things change\"
    and the authors decide \"the look\" has to as well.  \r\n\r\nI also don't have
    a problem with you starting each chapter on a recto: it's certainly a good starting
    place (I'm a Bringhurst disciple as well).  That being said, when space has been
    at a premium, and there's a beautiful spread, I've done projects where each section
    starts on a verso.  As always, it's about learning the rules, and then knowing
    how and when to break 'em.\r\n\r\nGood luck!\r\nLinda"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Greg Stanton
    body: "I wouldn't mess with the letterspacing, just the word spacing. It's better
      to violate the margin, or break a few lines in different places to give your
      last line more heft. Changing letterspacing makes some lines look \"blacker\"
      than others. I'm sensitive to it.\r\n\r\nDowding's \"Finer Points in the Spacing
      and Arrangement of Type\" is an excellent book on how to set readable type.
      I like Bringhurst's book a lot, but I disagree with a number of his opinions
      -- namely that you should let the computer break your lines for you in RR text.
      This is absurd. Technology will never replace a skilled human."
    created: '2006-08-23 20:01:01'
  created: '2006-08-23 16:01:05'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I can't download your samples, I get a message saying they are damaged.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-08-23 16:42:21'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<code>I can\u2019t download your samples, I get a message saying they are
    damaged.</code>\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor, in my experience the problem you're reporting
    sometimes happens with Internet Explorer on older systems (Windows 98/Me). If
    that's your case, then I can't think of a simple solution other than using a download
    manager or a browser other than IE. Otherwise, I don't really have a suggestion,
    but can tell you that the files are still there, and are not damaged. Maybe it
    was a mysterious temporary problem in cyberspace and it will work if you try again
    now? Sorry about that. And thanks for your interest!"
  created: '2006-08-23 17:04:53'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I'm with Linda on the hyphenation question, do whatever you can to avoid
    it with ragged right, btw I don't believe there is any research which has concluded
    that justified is better than ragged right, putting it mildly ragged right text
    set with a good rolling rag will outperform justified, both methods require some
    attention to detail but I think you are on the way. \r\nOne area which I haven't
    seen commented on is the Mouse's Tale, although the idea is nice I think you will
    need to work on it, given that it is rhyming I think if you start by setting it
    horizontally a pair of lines at a time and make the pattern from that you might
    achieve a better effect. Working with text on a curve can be very frustrating
    and there are a couple of really unattractive spots in your illustration around
    takes and at the end of the tail where mous e breaks. All that said though it
    is a very creditable first attempt at a difficult subject.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-08-23 18:44:32'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: I was unable to open the first .pdf, and I use XP with Firefox...
  created: '2006-08-23 19:22:40'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<code>I was unable to open the first .pdf, and I use XP with Firefox\u2026</code>\r\n\r\nWeird...
    Just checked the integrity of both files and they're fine. Downloaded them both
    without problems. Just in case, I've created two compressed files containing the
    PDFs; this might solve the problem.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://erikf.net/aaiw_pages.gz\"
    target=\"_blank\">http://erikf.net/aaiw_pages.gz</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://erikf.net/aaiw_spreads.gz\"
    target=\"_blank\">http://erikf.net/aaiw_spreads.gz</a>"
  created: '2006-08-23 19:59:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Greg, I share your preference for justification in long texts, but here where
    it's broken up with a lot of pictures, and quote blocks, I don't mind the rag
    right so much.
  created: '2006-08-23 20:12:15'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "I've already started the first revision, but can only do it during my free
    time, which fortunately I haven't had a lot of.\r\n\r\nIn the meantime, I'd like
    your input on something I forgot to mention previously. Carroll's text is full
    of dashes -- mostly when characters are speaking, but also the way it's used in
    this sentence. It seems that in the original text (can't be sure because I don't
    have access to a copy of the manuscript or the first edition) he even used double
    dashes to indicate abrupt breaks in dialogue.\r\n\r\nI have chosen to use single
    en dashes with a regular word space on either side in all cases, but keep wondering
    if I should use em dashes  flush with the preceding or following word in cases
    of abrupt breaks in dialogue (i.e. when what comes before or after is not part
    of the same sentence)."
  created: '2006-08-23 23:30:57'
- author:
    name: Greg Stanton
  body: I separate dashes (en and em) with thin spaces on either side.
  created: '2006-08-24 00:16:17'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Greg: I let the computer do the heavy lifting and then manually tweak.  :-)
    \ And I don't agree with Bringhurst on every point either, but it's easy to trot
    him out when I get a difficult client who wants me to justify every single decision
    I've made in setting up a document.  Dowding's book sounds like a worthwhile read.\r\n\r\nErik:
    I use single em dashes to indicate pauses in speech -- this is recommended in
    Chicago (for long pauses, they put two) and set without spaces.\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-08-24 00:41:32'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Dash it all... see this debate:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/27727\r\n\r\nIt's
    correct to use em dashes for breaks in speech, not en dashes. Definitely not double
    dashes. Whether or not to put a thin (not a regular word) space on either side
    I'd decide based on how they look in your font. Some need it (kerned too tight)
    and some don't.\r\n\r\nI too prefer justified text for reading, but I think in
    a book of this scale a rag is OK. Agree with Greg - start with the computer's
    rag but then go over it by hand. "
  created: '2006-08-24 02:51:47'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "For the dashes is there a national preference in Brazil, as you can see from
    the thread Patty links to there is an Atlantic split on use in English, or would
    a Portuguese convention be useful here?\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-08-24 10:02:21'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<code>is there a national preference in Brazil [...] or would a Portuguese
    convention be useful here?</code>\r\n\r\nWell, seeing as I'm setting the original
    text in English, I never really thought of following Brazilian or Portuguese conventions.
    This would be a book for English speakers, even if their first language is something
    else.\r\n\r\nBesides, in Brazil em dashes are used to introduce dialogues, not
    quotes, so I'm already far from well established conventions.\r\n\r\nI'm using
    single quotes throughout to enclose dialogues, and double quotes within single
    quotes; this seems to be the British practice, which I chose because the author
    is English and the lack of a target market gives me some latitude.\r\n\r\nAs for
    the dash discussion, thank you Linda and Patty for pointing out that dashes used
    within sentences should be different from those used to indicate abrupt breaks;
    that's what I needed to define. I'm going to stick with en dashes with word spaces
    on either side for the former, and adopt close-set em dashes for the latter."
  created: '2006-08-24 13:42:24'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Well, depending on use, the em dash is probably appropriate for both.  It's
    been awhile since I read \"Alice\" and I don't have a copy handy, but the en dash
    has pretty defined uses, and simply using it as a dash within a sentence isn't
    one of them.\r\n\r\nThere was a recent thread here on Typophile about dashes:
    check http://www.p22.com/terminal/dash.html for an excellent primer on what to
    use, when, and how.\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-08-24 14:24:37'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Since you are already going in the British direction for quotes, I would
    recommend spaced en dashes, em dashes are rarely used in long copy, spaced en
    dashes are more usual.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-08-24 15:20:35'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Erik - I'm not sure where you got the idea (either from me or Linda) that
    dashes within sentences should be different from abrupt breaks. In the US we use
    em dashes with either no space or thin space on either side in both instances.
    En dashes are used to indicate a spread either in dates (1958\u20131962), time
    (3\u20135 p.m.) or pages (pages 34\u201337). They are not used within sentences,
    at least not correctly.\r\n\r\nIf you're going for British convention, I suppose
    you should follow Tim's suggestions. If you're going for American convention you
    should use the em dash and will need to use double quotes for dialogue.\r\n\r\nTo
    add to the confusion: \r\nhttp://www.cs.tut.fi/~jkorpela/dashes.html\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dash\r\n\r\nYou
    won't get a clean consensus. My rule of thumb is that an en dash connects or implies
    a spread btw two items, an em dash suggests a separation."
  created: '2006-08-24 15:38:58'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "Sorry about the misinterpretation, Patty. My bad.\r\n\r\n<code>the en dash
    has pretty defined uses, and simply using it as a dash within a sentence isn\u2019t
    one of them</code>\r\n\r\nLinda, His Eminence The Mighty Guru of Typographers
    Mr Bringhurst disagrees with you:\r\n<dd>Use spaced en dashes rather than close-set
    em dashes or spaced hyphens to set off phrases. (\u2026) The em dash is the nineteenth-century
    standard, still prescribed in many editorial style books, but the em dash is too
    long for use with the best text faces. [Very true in the case of Quadraat.] Like
    the oversized space between sentences, it belongs to the padded and corseted aesthetic
    of Victorian typography. \xB6 Used as a phrase marker \u2013 thus \u2013 the en
    dash is set with a normal space either side.</dd>\r\n<dl>I guess it's a matter
    of choosing one set of conventions to follow and sticking to it.</dl>"
  created: '2006-08-24 16:58:05'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Like I said, you won't find a consensus.\r\n\r\nI have twenty years of book
    design (in the US) and have yet to find an editor who will countenance spaced
    en dashes to set apart text in a sentence. They use Chicago rather than Bringhurst,
    being editors, not typographers. So this is where I come from. If you were designing
    the book for a US publisher you'd be using em dashes.\r\n\r\nAesthetics aside,
    I don't think they should be used interchangeably since the type of info they
    convey is different. If you're using en dashes within sentences what do you use
    for dates and such? \r\n\r\nAnd, aesthetically, doesn't a spaced en dash eat up
    as much space as an unspaced em?"
  created: '2006-08-24 17:39:31'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Erik:\r\n\r\nI've got twenty-plus years of publication design, senior editorial,
    and writing experience in Canada and the U.S., and have had some articles published
    in England (where I was very careful to follow British standards!).  \r\n\r\nOn
    this side of the pond, Chicago rules the style-guide universe (although I've got
    probably a dozen other popular guides, not to mention custom ones for clients
    or ones that I've designed).  Bringhurst is great for design, but when he wanders
    into editorial waters, he gets over his head pretty quick.\r\n\r\nGiven you're
    on the western side of the Atlantic, I'd likely stick with something based on
    that side as well....\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-08-24 18:17:21'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">And, aesthetically, doesn\u2019t a spaced en dash eat up as much space as
    an unspaced em?\r\n\r\nProbably worth considering a narrow space rather than a
    full word space, that really depends on the typeface, something as sparkly as
    Quadraat needs a smaller space than a denser face.\r\nThe British alternative
    to Chicago would be <a href=\"http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/019212983X/202-6185149-7014230?v=glance&n=266239&s=gateway&v=glance\">Hart\u2019s
    Rules</a>.\r\nTim\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-24 18:28:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "My experience is that both Brits and Americans tend to think that their practice
    is definitely the best. Of course they are not the same. \r\n\r\nThe reality is
    that in the US and Britain you are likely to have their practice insisted upon
    by the publisher. \r\n\r\nBringhurst, being Canadian, probably has seen a lot
    of both and prefers the British. I do also, but nobody is going to listen to me.
    \r\n\r\nBringhurst is not 'out of his depth'. He understands the issue very well,
    but he is not going to change American practice. But the Matthew Carter practice
    of 3/4 em dash with built-in spaces to the em is exactly a compromise between
    the Brit & US methods. I think it will take over gradually in the US, subversively.\r\n\r\nPatty,
    in British style the n dash is used without spaces for 9-5 --but with spaces for
    asides. So the difference is preserved. \r\n\r\n\r\nThough I like the Carter solution,
    in my view the whole thing doesn't matter that much so long as you are consistent.
    \    "
  created: '2006-08-24 19:05:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: In the turf war between typographer and editor, the typographer might have
    a few tricks up her sleeve, such as horizontal scaling and kerning -- Patty, Linda,
    have you ever cheated a bit?
  created: '2006-08-24 19:30:24'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Hell yeah, as discussed in previous thread on this topic, I have even gone
    as far as to create a special style sheet for the em dash if I think it's too
    long. I've also adjusted kerning tables when it's too close to the type. But I
    still don't think it's (in the US) to just blithely substitute the en dash because
    you think it looks better.\r\n\r\nIt's not that I'm such a huge fan of the em,
    but I think that in general typography/typesetting has gotten sloppy with the
    advent of the PC and the two dashes do have different functions. Besides I come
    from a publishing background where sticklers reside..."
  created: '2006-08-24 20:01:51'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Tim: I keep meaning to buy a copy of Hart's -- I'll put it on my list for
    the next time I've on your side of the pond.  ;-)  (Yes, an excuse to visit London!)\r\n\r\nWilliam:
    Absolutely, consistency is important. As communicators -- and I'm using that term
    in the broadest sense -- it is also incumbent upon us to make things as clear
    as possible, and frequently, that means adhering to styles that we may find run
    counter to accepted norms.  Most of my working life has been spent in Canada,
    and I can tell you that \"Canadian Style\" is a terrible mish-mash.  Mostly British
    spellings (except for here in Alberta) with American rules (except in parts of
    Ontario and Atlantic Canada), at least for English.  We won't even consider Quebec!\r\n\r\nNick:
    Since I'm frequently both, it's an internal dialogue I have all the time.  I rarely
    fiddle with kerning unless it's something blatantly awful.  Horizontal scaling
    I might tweak, but only if I'm working with justified text that just *has* to
    fit on the page.\r\n\r\nBut 9 times out of 10, I'd probably find an editorial
    solution and keep the aesthetics.\r\n\r\nBut that's me....  <grin>\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-08-24 20:11:36'
- author:
    name: Greg Stanton
  body: "I wouldn't change any puctuation, because this is a classic and well-established
    text.\r\n\r\nIf the em-dash in Quadraat is too long for your liking, edit it with
    a font editor (FontLab or Fontographer), making it somewhere between what it is
    and an en-dash.\r\n\r\nOne of the reasons publishers have not used double-f ligatures
    is that, until OpenType, they had to change the character string to do so. Since
    they would sacrifice good typesetting to preserve this, I would re-consider replacing
    em dashes with en dashes. Better to just alter the offending character."
  created: '2006-08-24 20:35:23'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<code>I wouldn\u2019t change any puctuation, because this is a classic and
    well-established text.</code>\r\n\r\nGood point, Greg, but the fact is that I
    don't <em>know</em> how dashes were used in Carroll's manuscript, or in the first
    edition (which he probably supervised).\r\n\r\nI got the digitized text from Project
    Gutenberg, and it had all kinds of absurd punctuation glyphs, starting with grave
    accents in place of left quotation marks, so I doubt it's completely faithful
    to the original -- as far as punctuation is concerned, that is.\r\n\r\nMy other
    source is a 1946 edition published by Zephyr Books, a division of The International
    Book Company AB, printed in Stockholm, Sweden, with illustrations by Mervyn Peake.
    I have no reason to believe that it's 100% faithful to the original either, punctuation-wise."
  created: '2006-08-24 20:52:27'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "I've just uploaded my first revision, which incorporates many of your suggestions.\r\n\r\nRandom
    comments:\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>Sticking with ragged right for now.</li>\r\n<li>Changed
    typeface of poem at the end from Poetica to Esprit Italic. I think Esprit matches
    Quadraat pretty well in terms of general architecture and colour. Let me know
    if you think I'm crazy.</li>\r\n<li>Tried breaking title as Greg suggested but
    both alternatives looked bad. Saw that a large number of the books I own, including
    several on design and typography, don't have titles broken logically, so at least
    I'll have plenty of company in book design hell.</li>\r\n<li>Chapters now start
    on a new page, not necessarily a recto.</li>\r\n<li>Text now wraps around illustrations
    on versos, something I decided to try but am not entirely happy with.</li>\r\n<li>Chapter
    numbers are not actual lining figures, but small cap figures, because the version
    of Quadraat I have doesn't come with lining figures.</li>\r\n<li>Mouse tale/tail
    is now in Quadraat (not Sans), but I'd already spent hours on end trying to produce
    something easier to read without any success. Let people turn the book around
    -- it'll be fun...</li>\r\n<li>Added a foreword.</li>\r\n<li>Now that chapters
    start on rectos or versos, book is 110 pages long, six pages short of the ideal
    116, which would be seven signatures of sixteen pages. Could try and reduce it
    to 108 pages so it would add up to nine signatures of twelve pages, though this
    doesn't seem to be a common signature size.</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nLink to revised
    version: <a href=\"http://erikf.net/portfolio/aaiw/aaiw_spreads_r1.pdf\" target=\"_blank\">http://erikf.net/portfolio/aaiw/aaiw_spreads_r1.pdf</a>"
  created: '2006-08-25 03:02:27'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 7 signatures is 112 pages.
  created: '2006-08-25 03:15:57'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "A few things:\r\n\r\nForeword - page looks kind of dinky to me.\r\n\r\nIn
    general I think you need to work on your rags a little bit - too many paragraphs
    end with one word on the last line. This happens particularly glaringly on the
    last page of the text.\r\n\r\nI'm noticing that on a lot of spreads (pages 12-13,
    18-19, 22-23 for example) the last lines don't line up. I realize you're trying
    to keep paragraphs together but it looks strange.\r\n\r\nMost of your chapters
    end with plenty of room - have you considered a deeper sink for the opener?\r\n\r\nChapter
    numbers still look awkward to me. Most of the design is nicely restrained, these
    in contrast look kind of horsey especially when they get into double digits.\r\n\r\nThe
    poem is much improved.\r\n\r\nOn page 107, there's something off with the spacing
    of the attributions.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-25 03:28:15'
- author:
    name: jazzsammich
    picture: 110792
  body: Also, your typeface attributions haven't been updated to match your revisions.
  created: '2006-08-25 03:49:42'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "Of course seven signatures is 112 pages. Duh! Brain has stopped working after
    a 14-hour work day.\r\n\r\nYeah, the foreword is crappy, but I wanted to put it
    in place just to see how the whole thing looked.\r\n\r\nAnd I completely forgot
    to update the colophon; thanks for pointing that out, Jim.\r\n\r\nAs for getting
    last lines on facing pages to align, I'd already spent a lot of time trying to
    improve that. It's a LOT of work with all the illustrations and the problem of
    having orphaned lines at the top of the following page. I found myself cheating
    a few times (very few!), reducing word space to get a paragraph to lose a line
    and thus allow facing pages to align. But obviously need to spend more time on
    that.\r\n\r\nThanks for your comments; look forward to reading more."
  created: '2006-08-25 04:06:31'
- author:
    name: Greg Stanton
  body: You know, the edition with the Mervyn Peake illustrations was originally commissioned
    by the Folio Society. They are a stickler for adhering to the original texts.
    Unless something was off with the Folio Society of Alice in Wonderland, it's probably
    good a source as any to proof with -- barring the first edition.
  created: '2006-08-25 06:00:25'
- author:
    name: Greg Stanton
  body: "Erik, I think this edition is shaping up and quite on its way. Lovely.\r\n\r\nI
    have not gone through it with a pick, but I have a few comments.\r\n\r\nBlank
    pages do not need page numbers, so I would take them out.\r\n\r\nMake the chapter
    titles 2 pts larger. They look good now, but I think the chapters should announce
    themselves more assertively.\r\n\r\nWhile chapters do not have to start on the
    right, it is traditional for the FIRST chapter. Isn't always the case, so call
    me a hypocrite. I can take it.\r\n\r\nIt is possible to fit All in a Golden Afternoon
    on one page? Not by changing the size of the type, but by having it in two columns?\r\n\r\nThe
    lone illustration on page 55 irks me.\r\n\r\nThe dingbat marking the end of the
    text on page 103 is tiny and weird. It's unnecessary, and I'd ditch it -- especially
    since there is no precedent for decoration anywhere else in the book.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    for the sake of simplicity (and symmetry, for the book begins and ends with a
    poem) the final poem could also be set in Quadraat italic.\r\n\r\nThere\u2019s
    a blank line before \u201CProperly\u201D on page 105.\r\n\r\nI think you\u2019ve
    proven your point quitely nicely. There\u2019s very little in your layout that
    interferes with the quality of the text itself -- which is the ultimate aim of
    book design. Your revision, aside from a few minor bits (above), really doesn\u2019t
    contain anything that snags the eye. The illustrations work much better in this
    new layout.\r\n\r\nAs for breaking the title, try this:\r\n\r\n\_\_\_\_Alice\u2019s\r\n\_\_\_\_Adventures\r\nin
    Wonderland\r\n\r\nIn other words, line up Alice\u2019s, Adventures, and Wonderland,
    and hang in. You can also try making \u201Cin\u201D smaller, italicizing it, or
    both. Just a thought."
  created: '2006-08-25 06:30:44'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<code>While chapters do not have to start on the right, it is traditional
    for the FIRST chapter. Isn\u2019t always the case, so call me a hypocrite. I can
    take it.</code>\r\n\r\nGreg, from your comments, one thing I would definitely
    not think of you as is a hypocrite. I asked for constructive criticism, and you've
    given me nothing but that. If some of my comments sound a bit ironic or sarcastic,
    it's just my sense of humour, not an attempt at \"fighting back\".\r\n\r\nConsidering
    that the book supposedly starts with the introductory poem, which tells the story
    of how Dodgson went on a boat ride with three girls and told them a story etc
    etc etc, would you have me start that poem on a recto, or skip the verso that
    follows it and start the first chapter on the following recto? (If you make me
    start the first chapter on a recto, I'll wring your virtual neck, because all
    the pages will move from recto to verso and vice-versa, and I'll have to spend
    a few more hours re-positioning illustrations.)\r\n\r\n<code>It is possible to
    fit All in a Golden Afternoon on one page? Not by changing the size of the type,
    but by having it in two columns?</code>\r\n\r\nNo. I tried that right at the beginning,
    but using two columns would force me to have a wider text block on just that one
    page, and I thought that would be a bad idea.\r\n\r\n<code>Maybe for the sake
    of simplicity (and symmetry, for the book begins and ends with a poem) the final
    poem could also be set in Quadraat italic.</code>\r\n\r\nHmm... From the beginning
    I wanted to somehow make that second poem different. Also, unlike the first, it's
    not part of the original book. But maybe you're right. I'll give it some more
    thought."
  created: '2006-08-25 13:46:43'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">Let people turn the book around \u2014 it\u2019ll be fun\u2026\r\n\r\nIt
    wasn't that so much as it is letting down the rest of the composition, I think
    it can be done in the style you are intending, you just haven't got there yet,
    perhaps starting with two parallel lines would improve it.\r\n\r\nOn the recto
    of that spread I have a couple of suggestions in the Old Crab's speech take over
    'to', which should also turnover 'your' and in turn 'snap-\u2019. Further down
    'Lory' is sitting alone on a line you could turnover 'the'. And the last word
    appropriately 'alone' needs some work you could try slightly adjusting the measure
    to take 'bed!' back up.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-08-25 15:12:17'
- author:
    name: isaactobin
  body: "In addition to removing the folios from blank pages, I think you should get
    rid of the folio on the table of contents. Also, I'd either make the foreword
    begin as page \"i\" and the main text begin as \"1\" or just have the foreword
    begin as \"1\". It's standard practice (in the US at least) to set frontmatter
    folios in roman numerals (and start the main text on page \"1\") so that changes
    can be made to the FM without repaginating the entire book. But that may be a
    bit fussy considering you have a one page foreword.\r\n\r\nIsaac"
  created: '2006-08-25 15:34:58'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Definitely get rid of the folio on the TOC, I didn't notice that.\r\n\r\nIn
    the US it's standard EITHER to paginate the frontmatter in roman numerals and
    to start pagination at the half title with page 1. Either is completely acceptable.
    But folios should not appear until the text begins (foreword)."
  created: '2006-08-25 16:36:38'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "I have now uploaded the second revision of the book. The main changes are
    as follows:\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>First chapter starts on a recto.</li>\r\n<li>Almost
    all last lines on facing pages align. In the two or three cases where they don't,
    it's because it's damn near impossible. Suggestions are welcome, though.</li>\r\n<li>Folios
    now appear on every page except in the front matter, on blank pages, on the last
    recto (colophon), and on p. 96 (because of the illustration).</li>\r\n<li>The
    introductory poem is now also set in Esprit Italic. I came to the conclusion that
    it didn't really make a whole lot of sense to use different faces for the opening
    and closing poems, especially because there was no significant contrast.</li>\r\n<li>Chapter
    numbers are smaller.</li>\r\n<li>Chapter titles are now bold. Thought of increasing
    their size, but that would mess up lots of things, so I went with bold instead.</li>\r\n<li>The
    \"typogram\" (mouse tale/tail) on page 27 has now been completely redone.</li>\r\n<li>The
    whole book fist rather neatly into 112 pages, or 7 signatures of 8 leaves.</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nAs
    always, your comments are very welcome.\r\n\r\nI have also designed the cover
    (with an alternative). Would be great to read comments on that as well.\r\n\r\nLinks:\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://erikf.net/aaiw_spreads_r2.pdf\" target=\"_blank\">Book</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://erikf.net/aaiw_covers.pdf\" target=\"_blank\">Covers</a>"
  created: '2006-08-29 23:21:59'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "I have now uploaded the second revision of the book. The main changes are
    as follows:\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>First chapter starts on a recto.</li>\r\n<li>Almost
    all last lines on facing pages align. In the two or three cases where they don't,
    it's because it's damn near impossible. Suggestions are welcome, though.</li>\r\n<li>Folios
    now appear on every page except in the front matter, on blank pages, on the last
    recto (colophon), and on p. 96 (because of the illustration).</li>\r\n<li>The
    introductory poem is now also set in Esprit Italic. I came to the conclusion that
    it didn't really make a whole lot of sense to use different faces for the opening
    and closing poems, especially because there was no significant contrast.</li>\r\n<li>Chapter
    numbers are smaller.</li>\r\n<li>Chapter titles are now bold. Thought of increasing
    their size, but that would mess up lots of things, so I went with bold instead.</li>\r\n<li>The
    \"typogram\" (mouse tale/tail) on page 27 has now been completely redone.</li>\r\n<li>The
    whole book fist rather neatly into 112 pages, or 7 signatures of 8 leaves.</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nAs
    always, your comments are very welcome.\r\n\r\nI have also designed the cover
    (plus an alternative). Would be great to read comments on that as well.\r\n\r\nLinks:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li><a
    href=\"http://erikf.net/portfolio/aaiw/aaiw_spreads_r2.pdf\" target=\"_blank\">Book</a></li>\r\n<li><a
    href=\"http://erikf.net/portfolio/aaiw/aaiw_covers.pdf\" target=\"_blank\">Covers</a></li>\r\n</ul>"
  created: '2006-08-29 23:24:35'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: I hope I didn't miss my chance of having my second revision commented on by
    not posting it before the forum went down for a couple of days last week... :o(
  created: '2006-09-04 03:18:05'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "You still need to work out whether you are using em or en dashes and then
    whether you are going to use spaces before and after or not and check to see you
    don't have spaces on hyphens, I believe you are using em dashes to represent stuttering,
    embarrassed speech and they seem too wide. The typogram isn't working for me,
    in that it doesn't respect the rhythm of the poem, but is an improvement on the
    text on a line. \r\nOn the cover I would make the visual space between the two
    lines of the title and the edge of the block of colour even using the baseline
    of the first and x-height of the second, I would also kern the dv and ntu of Adventures
    and work on the relationship of title and author on the spine (imagine seeing
    it on its own). I wonder about the Cheshire cat as the sole image on the cover,
    it doesn't seem to me the most iconic of images \u2013 the teaparty, the rabbit
    or an image of Alice strike me as more appropriate.\r\nThanks for the acknowledgment,
    I would however remove the comma before and. And I hope some of this is helpful.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-09-04 15:26:35'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "Tim,\r\n\r\nThe way I'm using em and en dashes at the moment is: em dashes
    for abrupt interruptions, without spaces between the dash and the dialogue that
    is either being interrupted or resumed; and en dashes for breaks inside sentences.
    Is it your opinion that I should use either one or the other kind of dash, with
    the same spacing, in all cases?\r\n\r\nWith regard to the typogram, I honestly
    don't believe it's feasible to make it look like a mouse's tail <em>and</em> break
    the poem at the appropriate places. I've experimented with countless different
    possibilities and none is perfect. I have yet to see Carroll's manuscript, but
    my guess is that, if he drew some kind of typogram, he either broke the poem at
    the \"wrong\" places or squished his handwriting to fit more characters in certain
    lines.\r\n\r\nAs for the title on the cover, I did exactly what you said at first
    (baseline to edge of colour = edge of colour to x-height), but then decided against
    it. In fact, this has a lot to do with my choice of the Cheshire cat: I wanted
    to play with the idea of above the ground (\"Alice's Adventures\") v. underground
    (\"in Wonderland\"). On the surface it's light and \"normal\"; down below it's
    dim and weird. For me the disappearing Cheshire cat in semi-darkness conveys the
    notion of weirdness better than most of the other illustrations. And I wanted
    \"Alice's Adventures\" to be right on the surface, but \"in Wonderland\" to be
    deep underground. So I guess the problem is that the two halves of the title are
    not positioned in a way that makes this distinction clear, so it may just look
    like a mistake.\r\n\r\nAnyway, please have a look at <a href=\"http://erikf.net/aaiw_cover_alt.pdf\"
    target=\"_blank\">this modified version of the cover</a> (a variation of the first
    option from the two previously posted) and let me know if you think it's better.
    The distance beteen the baseline of the first half of the title and the edge of
    the coloured block is now the same as the distance between the edge and the x-height
    of the second half, and I've brought the title and author's name closer together
    on the spine.\r\n\r\nLastly, with regard to the comma before <em>and</em>, I'm
    not a big fan either (and it's wrong in Portuguese), but all style manuals (Strunk
    & White's, for one) seem to recommend commas before the last item in a series,
    even if a conjunction is used.\r\n\r\nYour comments are very helpful and welcome;
    thanks a lot. My replies are merely intended as a clarification of my original
    intentions, not as a rebuke."
  created: '2006-09-04 18:28:37'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://www.bl.uk/collections/treasures/alice/alice_narrowband.htm?middle\r\n\r\nHere
    is an online version [there is a broadband link as well] of Alice's Adventures
    under Ground (which became Alice's Adventures in Wonderland) in Carroll's own
    hand, the poem is different (pages 28-29). The style you have used seems to be
    the standard style in printed versions (pre Illustrator's text on a line:) with
    reducing point sizes.\r\n\r\nDashes, my preference would be to limit yourself
    to en dashes with spaces and for the interruptions use no spaces, however, in
    a recently published compendium of Carroll's works em dashes without spaces were
    used for interrupted text like this:\r\n\u2018\u2014found it advisable\u2026 (my
    ellipsis) \u2026the insolence of his Normans\u2014\u2014\u2019\r\nreturning to
    the interrupted speech uses an em dash with no spaces and closes with a closed-up
    pair of em dashes which seems excessive to me.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.askoxford.com/asktheexperts/faq/aboutother/oxfordcomma?view=uk\r\n\r\nThe
    comma before and \u2013 is only necessary to assist the reader, so I suppose one
    could argue that it is necessary in this context.\r\n\r\nOn the revised cover
    the new version is not really working for me, I was thinking that the in wonderland
    line would come up, still be entangled with the trees.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-09-05 14:35:29'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "John, thanks for your input, but I'm confused about something:\r\n\r\n<code>Don\u2019t
    use sans serif anywhere for this title. Your title pages are way too bald and
    blank.</code>\r\n\r\nI'm not using sans-serifs <em>anywhere</em> in the book.
    I did use Quadraat Sans for chapter titles in my first draft, but neither of the
    two revisions posted so far contain a single glyph set in a sans-serif. (Actually,
    that's only 99.9999% true: I don't have a Quadraat \"expert\" font, so I used
    a dimension sign from Quadraat Sans Expert in the colophon.)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: mondoB
    body: Hi Erik...looked again at the two PDFs you uploaded at the top of this thread,
      and a san-serif, presumably Quadraat Sans, is used in headlines for title page,
      contents page, and chapter start pages (e.g., Down the Rabbit Hole). Just use
      the same serif you use for body copy; larger headlines give a chance for the
      designer to sell the text font's virtues to the reader. Concentrate on a nice
      alternative to Quadraat, too scrunched up, especially the scrunched-up italic...in
      addition to alternatives mentioned already, there's also ITC Winchester (but
      use it big, no less than 12 point), a really subtle feminine Victorian face
      with old style figures already loaded.
    created: '2006-09-08 20:34:23'
  created: '2006-09-08 13:31:33'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: John, I think you're looking at my very first draft. There have been two major
    overhauls after that. I posted details about my latest revision on Aug. 29, 7:24pm.
    You can use <a href="http://typophile.com/node/27817/155399" target="_blank">this
    link</a> to go straight to the post in question; just ignore the first post on
    the page, which is the topic head, repeated on all pages.
  children:
  - author:
      name: mondoB
    body: 'Yes, Erik, second round looks much better...now to another typeface! That''s
      the fun part. But also use the famous illustrations much more spashily...maybe
      as a 15% benday background detail blown up to cover a the whole page on one
      of those title pages that has too little going on visually now. '
    created: '2006-09-08 23:18:52'
  created: '2006-09-08 22:58:47'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I'm sure this is already posted, but whatever.. ;)\r\n\r\nOn some pages there
    seems to be a line less then on the left page. For example on pages 17 and 31.
    You probably did that on purpose, but it did sometimes look a bit odd when I was
    scanning the layout.\r\n\r\nSome of the large capitals on the beginning of a chapter
    are spaced a bit odd. For example the 'T' on page 21. Almost touching the next
    character. I imagine increasing the space would make it too large, but the way
    it it looks a bit wierd as well.\r\n\r\nThere are some words in the text that
    are on the beginning of a new page, which preferably should be on the end of the
    last page. Like the word 'off.' on page 34.\r\n\r\nThe illustration on page 37
    is placed a but out of composition. It doesnt really look too good in combination
    with the facing pages textblock.\r\n\r\nJust my 2 cents. :)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Erik Fleischer
      picture: 111193
    body: "Jelmar, thanks a lot for your comments. However, it seems you only examined
      my first draft; there have been two revisions since, with numerous changes.\r\n\r\nI've
      updated the first post to this thread (the one at the top of every page) with
      info about the latest revision. Look forward to reading your comments on it."
    created: '2006-09-15 13:48:53'
  created: '2006-09-14 16:46:35'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I think your covers could be stronger. The grey is too dark and I think they
    look too academic, not whimsical enough. Why not have more fun with the type?
    Perhaps large type with small spot illustrations interspersed.\r\n\r\nBook looks
    much better. I still don't like Quadraat for this title but you seem attached
    to it. I'd have done the beginning and end poems in the same font as interior
    poems. \r\n\r\nDon't like the bold for chapter titles and front matter. It weighs
    the text down.\r\n\r\nI'm also not clear on your use of dashes. I think you should
    use one or the other - em or en - for text breaks whether in dialogue or not.
    As an American I'd use em with no or thin space on either side. The Brits would
    argue otherwise."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Erik Fleischer
      picture: 111193
    body: "<code>I still don\u2019t like Quadraat for this title but you seem attached
      to it.</code>\r\n\r\nTrying to make do with the fonts I have. Didn't want to
      invest in new fonts for this experimental project. I set out to find something
      readable but at the same time a little quirky, and after rummaging through my
      \"font bin\", decided it would be either Quadraat or Esprit. Gave up on Esprit
      because the version I own doesn't have text figures.\r\n\r\n<code>I\u2019m also
      not clear on your use of dashes. I think you should use one or the other - em
      or en - for text breaks whether in dialogue or not.</code>\r\n\r\nI realize
      this is a controversial issue. Early on I decided to use en dashes with word
      spaces for breaks in sentences, and unspaced em dashes for abrupt interruptions
      in speech. I've recently found precendent for this in Hugh Williamson's <em>Methods
      of Book Design</em> (p. 146):\r\n\r\n<dd>Conventions include the setting of
      an unspaced rule\u2014as here\u2014\u2018like parentheses or a pair of commas,
      before and after a parenthetical clause\u2019 (Oxford, 1981) among other uses.
      Without any space on either side, the rule appears to link rathern than to separate
      words, like an elongated hyphen. A spaced en rule ( \u2013 ) or \xBE-em rule
      may be preferable for the majority of purposes; one of these will be visible
      enough without being conspicuous. The em rule could then be used for the role
      assigned by Oxford to a two-em rule, 'to show that a sentence is left unfinished'
      (without space between rule and preceding word) and 'to denote the omission
      of a part or the whole of an underirable word' (...).</dd>\r\n<dl></dl>\r\nAs
      for the cover, I'll try to come up with something livelier, but I have to confess
      that I'm quite happy with the dimly lit, weird mood that the grey seems to have
      achieved."
    created: '2006-09-15 14:12:05'
  created: '2006-09-14 17:08:49'
- author:
    name: makumaku
    picture: 111893
  body: "i'm assuming this is a one color print job right? \r\n\r\nre: Quadraat..
    it's good enough as the text font, but for the titles i'd go for some Czech-style
    type like FF Maiola to give them some more weight and charm. \r\nAlso, i'd consider
    moving the chapter number slightly more away from the edge of the page.  \r\n\r\nre:
    the cover - i wouldn't go for such an academic style. I think i'd use an enlarged
    detail of an illustration (perhaps leafs in a  tree or some other feature), cover
    both sides of the book cover with it and then type in the text in white rectangles
    over the illustration. "
  created: '2006-09-15 14:12:20'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "Steve, you're at least the second person who comments on the \"academicism\"
    of my cover, so it's becoming clear that my joke was really a private one \u2014
    I'm the only one who gets it.\r\n\r\nMy intention was to have half of the title
    \"underground\", in this dimly-lit, weird world inhabited by a cat that disappears
    bit by bit. I chose grey simply because it conveyed this idea of semi-darkness
    best.\r\n\r\nBottom line: I'll experiment with other designs for the cover. Will
    try to post something different soon.\r\n\r\nThis whole project is an exercise
    in book design, so I haven't really given much thought to whether the printing
    would be done in one, two, or more colours. I guess the fact that the whole thing
    can be done in black with screens for shades of grey isn't so bad after all."
  created: '2006-09-15 14:24:19'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Erik, since this is your first book design you should definitely experiment
    more, especially with the cover. I'd say that if you were doing a series design
    for fiction and wanted a clean academic look with the white top half, understated
    type, and an illustration on the bottom then you might be onto something. But
    my experience with publishers, marketing, etc is that they would want something
    that has more shelf presence. I recommend you go to your local bookstore and look,
    for example, at the Penguin covers. They have nice variety and yet would never
    be mistaken for mass market.\r\n\r\nIt's rare that you see a one-color cover.
    I think you should play with color more."
  created: '2006-09-15 17:43:27'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I also think you could follow makumaku's advice and have more fun with the
    display type (chapter titles and title page). What about the cover font for those,
    to start. \r\n\r\nHave you tried ghosting back the chapter numbers a bit?"
  created: '2006-09-15 18:06:20'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "I promise to play more and have more fun. :o)\r\n\r\n<code>Have you tried
    ghosting back the chapter numbers a bit?</code>\r\n\r\nThe thought crossed my
    mind, but then I realized they would look almost exactly the same as the ones
    in Bringhurst's <em>The Elements of Typographic Style</em>. Didn't want to look
    like a newbie <em>and</em> a copycat..."
  created: '2006-09-15 20:17:13'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: "<cite>I don\u2019t know how dashes were used in Carroll\u2019s manuscript...</cite>\r\n\r\nThere
    is a fascimile Dover edition of Carroll's original ms. version, called \"Alice's
    Adventures Underground\" -- not the same text but certainly worth looking at.\r\n\r\nI
    think your design looks good. I would like to see some of the illustrations larger.
    \r\n\r\nI published an edition of Carroll's <em>Sylvie and Bruno</em> (the introduction
    is at http://www.rightreading.com/writing/dodgsons-dodges.htm). Unfortunately
    I left that publishing company and the edition appears to have gone out of print.
    Maybe I'll dig out a copy and post some sample pages at some point."
  created: '2006-09-30 18:29:17'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: Tom, it's taken me this long to reply because I was out of the country for
    two weeks (ATypI conference in Lisbon etc) without easy internet access. Thanks
    for your suggestions and I look forward to seeing copies of your pages.
  created: '2006-10-08 23:31:55'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: I'm about to start a <a href="http://typophile.com/node/33471" target="_blank">new
    book project</a>. You're all invited to give your input.
  created: '2007-05-03 03:10:38'
date: '2006-08-21 23:49:18'
node_type: forum
title: 'Book design: your critique welcome'

---
