---
author:
  name: lore
  picture: 111437
body: "Hello children\r\n\r\nI am designing the external signage of a jazz caf\xE9/bar
  and I am facing a problem: the building is located in an extremely visually polluted
  area. There are all sort of signs, mainly huge monstruosities, bright and made out
  of plastic and neon lights (there are no restrictions whatsoever here).\r\n\r\nI
  cannot (and I don't want) compete with those...I really would like to draw attention
  without being too invasive, possibly use organic or unusual materials and warm,
  welcoming lightning. \r\n\r\nThe building dates from 1914 (which is very old for
  Brazilian standards) and it still has beautiful art nouveau doors and windows. Not
  many of these buildings have survived in this area and I am trying really hard to
  keep what's left in terms of atmosphere and persuade the owners that it's possible
  to avoid the plastic and the neon.\r\n\r\nI know it's off topic but I thought you
  guys might have some example to show me or any idea. \r\nI'll post something I've
  found, just so you know the kind of stuff I have in mind. \r\n\r\nNeedless to say
  I'm very grateful for any input.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Go for a different statement. For instance something placed on the sidewalk
    \u2014 an artistic artefact, an impressive tree in a particular bowl. A colored
    carpet. Street artists performing. Balloons bouncing. Think outside of the box!"
  created: '2006-08-24 23:24:46'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Hey, thanks! That's exactly what I'm trying to do: think outside of the box
    (and persuade the client to do the same!).\r\nOk, these are examples I've found
    on the internet.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lampiao_4942.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/insegna-2_4687.jpg]"
  created: '2006-08-24 23:25:32'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/grilli_4297.gif]\r\n\r\nThis one I've
    found on the streets in Italy. I love it. I wish all signs were like that!"
  created: '2006-08-24 23:39:21'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "How about showing respect for the existing facade and putting something transparant
    in front\u201A that would be in line with some of your examples."
  created: '2006-08-24 23:43:30'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: Or doing something with light... Laserprojecting a logo. Blowing smoke onto
    the sidewalk and imposing your artwork onto that. Use LED's on the concrete. Paint
    footsteps on all of the sidewalks in the neighbourhood, pointing towards your
    venue (ok, that's corny, but it's late over her and time to go to sleep...).
  created: '2006-08-24 23:46:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "For some reason what comes into my mind as hopefully surviving in the visual
    noise is a large, light, upright script face (like Linoscript*) with a lot of
    whitespace (maybe even actually white). Yeah, monochrome.\r\n\r\n* A design that
    reminds me of musical notes, btw. But maybe it's just me.\r\n\r\n> I wish all
    signs were like that!\r\n\r\nBe careful what you wish for!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-24 23:47:10'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Great ideas, thanks.\r\nHrant: I'm speechless.\r\nAnother one I like, not
    very jazzy though! A Flinstone style cyber cafe in south Brazil. Makes you wonder
    what's inside...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cybercafe_4652.gif]"
  created: '2006-08-24 23:47:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "You may be able to go electric without joining the pollution.\r\nBlue LCD
    light is kind of laid back, you know the one that looks like it's from a different
    dimension"
  created: '2006-08-25 00:46:08'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "If the surrounding area is visually polluted maybe a visually empty space
    would stand out.\r\n\r\nHave a traditional sign from the art nouveau period that's
    sympathetic to the building painted in one colour, even have some classic style
    lighting above it, but then don't have anything on it, apart from the name really
    really small with a delicate jazz/cafe symbol. Then people will be curious and
    have to get really close to read it. And then the waiters can grab them and drag
    them in...\r\n\r\n...or for something at right angles to the facade howabout ribbons
    or strands of material or little flags made of a beautiful material that are continuously
    blown by a hidden fan, and they've got musical notes on them, and they're constantly
    fluctuating in the wind like jazz music and...\r\n\r\n...i'll shutup now. Time
    for bed.\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-25 00:58:23'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "No! Don't go to bed yet! What am I paying you for? ; )\r\n\r\nSerious: thanks,
    I just told my client about the lightning ideas, projecting the logo is brilliant,
    she loved it. We'll have a go with the blue lcd lights too. And I loved the idea
    of creating some movement. A while ago I thought of putting a weathervane (is
    that how you call it?) or some sort of kinetic sculpture but I like the ribbons
    idea, it's more gentle.\r\n\r\n<cite>[...] then people will be curious and have
    to get really close to read it.</cite>\r\n\r\nunfortunately this is one of these
    cities you drive everywhere not because you need to but because if you walk, people
    might think you're (horror!) poor...\r\nthat's why everything is disproportionate,
    signs are huuuuuuuge, you don't even see them if you are walking! Trust me: it's
    sad."
  created: '2006-08-25 04:28:54'
- author:
    name: Bobby Henderson
  body: "Blue LCD lights? I'm a bit confused by that sort of terminology.\r\n\r\nNeon,
    high output fluorescent HO/D lamps and LEDs are the three most commonly used methods
    in lighting signs.\r\n\r\nThe first thing the client and designer must both consider:
    the budget. What is the customer willing to spend? That will determine quite a
    bit on what sort of methods may be used. Very often customers will want to seriously
    under-spend on their exterior sign program when they really need to be making
    that the central focus of their marketing campaign.\r\n\r\nThe next thing to consider
    is what kinds of signs are actually practical to build.\r\n\r\nIf you want to
    have a lighted sign that also maintains harmony with a building's architecture
    then channel letters are usually the best choice. They can be scaled to large,
    very legible sizes while fitting into the visual framework of the building fascia.\r\n\r\nOne
    downside of channel letters: you're limited on your choices of type. You need
    at least a 2\" wide stroke to accomodate neon and glass housings. Channel letters
    set in some thin, serifed typeface like Diotima might work...if they're built
    7 feet tall.\r\n\r\nThe other downside of channel letters: you could be drilling
    lots of holes for electrical primaries through the building fascia. You'll really
    do that with letters flush-mounted to the building surface. Letters that are mounted
    to a cabinet or thin metal raceway are less destructive. You'll have only one
    or two holes drilled for electrical supply.\r\n\r\nAs far as style goes, most
    signs are butt ugly because 1: they are a moronic clutter of useless unmemorable
    information and 2: most sign designers have no talent to compose type and graphics
    properly at all. For the most part much of the sign industry is a forsaken wasteland.
    Few people with talent want to make signs for a living. So its no surprise so
    many of America's commercial streets look like utter garbage. As long as we're
    not willing to give that form of advertising any respect at all the ugliness will
    continue.\r\n\r\nAside from that, any store owner should work hard to make his
    own business look good even if all the other stores around the property look like
    garbage."
  created: '2006-08-25 05:16:14'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "If you are talkin' Art Nouveau, I'm thinking Guimard or Gaudi. Guimard's
    signs for le M\xE9tro in Paris are still beautiful. Very organic forms, and no
    blue laser lights.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nouveau_5022.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    sculptural shapes suggest movement. The font makes one smile. I think such a thing
    would be a nice counterpoint to the jungle of man-made neon signs described by
    you, and seen by all of us (in local settings). Of course, this sort of sign would
    need to rely heavily on (and compliment) the architecture of the building.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Ken\r\n\r\nYou could also look at the posters of Beardsley and Mucha. And the
    work of Charles Mackintosh.\r\n\r\nJust a thought. Trying to give you something
    different to think about. But if the client has already bought into an approach,
    my humble advice would be to go with that!!\r\n\r\nI like the first batch of signs
    you posted. That sort of silhouette-y cut-metal signage would also offer a good
    counterpoint to a bunch of surrounding flashy illuminated signs."
  created: '2006-08-25 10:29:50'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Wrought iron works so well with the vertical, organic aesthetic of Art Nouveau\r\n\r\nhttp://www.happyhedgehog-wroughtiron.co.uk/staircases.htm\r\n\r\ncombined
    with a gas-fired torch (or the fake, but fairly convincing, cloth being blown
    upward with uplighting).\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-08-25 13:44:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Gaud\xED, yummm. Phantasmagoric wrought iron gates and such,\r\nand charming
    \"fauve mosaic\" lettering. It's so strange that the\r\nSpanish call that style
    The Modernism...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-25 14:26:21'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: how about a picture of the facade for us to get an idea of what we're talking
    about?
  created: '2006-08-25 14:49:56'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Thank you so much everyone. Here 2 bad pics of the fa\xE7ade. The arrow points
    to the old sign to be replaced. The traffic goes on only one direction so drivers
    can't actually see the big white wall (which doesn't mean I can't project something
    on it). As you can see, the neighbouring estate agency's sign (Lafic) is so big
    that it hides a big part of the caf\xE9 building, which is really annoying.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/typophile1_4366.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/typophile2_5739.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    name of the place is Almanach Caf\xE9. The visual identity is kind of defined
    already. The logo is more 70s than art-nouveau, it's my fault: I was unable to
    assert myself. I presented nice logos with references to Mackintosh, to iron-work,
    to stained glass etc. even references to toulouse-lautrec but I guess it's a cultural
    issue. Maybe people can't relate to these references. We ended up with a  retro-psychedelic
    visual identity. Mea culpa. \r\n\r\nColours: dark red and orange/ocra. \r\n\r\nAlso
    when I say visually polluted I don't mean the excitement of a Piccadily Circus
    or Times Square...it's the squalid, ill-planned type, not a pretty sight.\r\nThanks
    again everyone. Keep posting!"
  created: '2006-08-25 16:10:15'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "And Ken: you read my mind: my first proposal was something inspired on the
    Parisian metro sign. A classic. \r\n\r\nUh...budget not a big problem: apparentely
    Heineken will sponsor the sign, but we need to put Heineken on it...maybe separate,
    I don't know...that's another headache bu this is the way it works here."
  created: '2006-08-25 16:11:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "How about this, it's more Deco than Nouveau, but I love it anyway.\r\n\r\nIt's
    in Vienna BTW.\r\n\r\n\r\nNick Cooke[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Friseur_3662.jpg]"
  created: '2006-08-25 16:15:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, although it's cliche, Boecklin is Art Nouveau (adore the\r\nstyle myself)
    and I think it even goes with the Heineken logo.\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/arnold-boecklin/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-25 16:23:36'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Good selection of signs (mainly Parisian) on this site\r\nhttp://www.ruavista.com/cafes.htm\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-08-25 16:45:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Along those lines, here's a book I highly recommend:\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1579651704/sr=8-1/qid=1156524377/ref=sr_1_1/002-0410856-3972048?ie=UTF8\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-25 17:47:16'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Whoaaaaa...that ruavista link is awesome, Tim. I've been taking pics of commercial
    signage for years, this is definetely the place to be! \r\n\r\nI love that arnold
    boecklin type, Hrant, it was in my first selection of fonts for the client (actually
    not this but a very similar one) but she wanted a more jazzy feel...what is a
    designer to do?\r\n\r\nthanks thanks thanks thanks"
  created: '2006-08-25 19:37:11'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Here are some ideas I liked while I was in Montreal:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ebensorkin/106491928/\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ebensorkin/158150733/\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ebensorkin/224639099/\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ebensorkin/224638951/\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ebensorkin/224638786/"
  created: '2006-08-25 19:46:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Jazzy font? Wazzat look like?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-25 19:52:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Airy Linoscript:\r\nSpeak of the devil... http://www.flickr.com/photos/ebensorkin/224638786/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-25 20:53:38'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Thanks Eben, I had a look at all your photos, great job.\r\n\r\n<cite>Jazzy
    font? Wazzat look like? </cite>\r\nahhh, good question...I was thinking 20s/30s
    you see. My client put her eyes on that\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/NewHampshireBold_sample_5980.jpg]\r\nand
    who said you could change her mind? \r\nHowever the issue now is not the logo
    or the font: it's the material and format of the external signage...in fact it's
    all together.\r\n\r\nAnd Bobby, I can't thank you enough for your detailed instructions."
  created: '2006-08-26 04:33:12'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "When I hear the term \"jazzy font\", I tend to think of something like <a
    href=\"http://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=UMT0000018\">Plumero</a>.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, this refers to the design of the font itself, as opposed to any historical
    connotations. So it's probably not useful to you."
  created: '2006-08-26 05:00:54'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Everything is useful, believe me. Thanks for that. It's lovely. In our first
    meetings the client told me she didn't want anything too feminine and almost every
    script was too feminine to her. I guess it would have been the same with Plumero.
    We also needed contrast. A lot of contrast, not only due to the visually polluted
    environment but also because the publications where she usually advertises the
    cafe's events are also very cluttered so we needed something bold that would work
    well in black and white...but with a little playful twist. So that was how we
    came to the New Hampshire thing. \r\nSo the problem of standing out was there
    from the beginning, not only for the external sign."
  created: '2006-08-26 18:18:17'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "make the whole facade the sign.\r\nthat would look HOT!!\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic
    Design, Melbourne</a>"
  created: '2006-08-28 01:55:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I was thinking: maybe jazzy is like Adobe Nueva.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-08-31 21:35:36'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: That building is so beautiful - maybe it needs to be painted...
  created: '2006-09-02 01:48:11'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "I agree with Andi. Knowing what most streets look like in the vast majority
    of Brazilian cities (drab and polluted and disharmonious), a good new paint job
    (nice warm colours, maybe brick red with a beige trim) and really good lighting
    might be the best start. I bet that would make the building stand out immediately:
    it would look clean and well-kept and luminous, in stark contrast to all the others
    around it.\r\n\r\nHow about the little garden at the entrance? Maybe a canopy
    of some sort from the front gate to the front door (which I assume is on top of
    the stairs), with lighting that makes it glow from the inside, would add a nice
    touch."
  created: '2006-09-02 17:36:01'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Now your talkin'!  Yeah. And what Andi said too. Yeah. Actually it looks like
    a gaden per se' would be tricky but you could put plants ( trees?)  in large containers.
    That would soften the otherwise hard feeling of the street.
  created: '2006-09-04 07:39:50'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "painted with the entire facade as the signage!! - great idea! :)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/symphony_5830.jpg]\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Design, Melbourne</a>"
  created: '2006-09-04 09:14:22'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "I didn't answer before because I was at a design conference in Sao Paulo
    but thanks for the comments. Paul, I'm not sure I like that facade...sorry! I'm
    trying really hard not to hide the building, I think what Andi, Eben and Erik
    say is more relevant for this kind of building and yes! It needs to be painted
    urgently...after that I think even a nice little wooden sign would stand out.
    And plants, lots of them. It's a huge problem around here, not enough trees on
    the streets. \r\n\r\nTo give you an idea of the craziness around here, check this
    out:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/casa-rosada-small_3945.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    shop appropriated the palm trees to draw attention to their window...I asked around
    but nobody seem to find it horrendous and, most importantly: nobody seems to care
    that the palmtrees do NOT belong to the shop but to the community...the important
    thing is that it screams as loud as it can that \"this is a vibrant, commercial
    area\" it doesn't matter if it's ugly."
  created: '2006-09-07 15:48:59'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<code>most importantly: nobody seems to care that the palmtrees do NOT belong
    to the shop but to the community</code>\r\n\r\nDon't get me started... This is
    the country where nobody seems to mind \"sound cars\" (cars with huge loudspeakers
    mounted on the roof blaring out advertisements as they drive around), let alone
    think of them as the most unbelievably disrespectful invasion of their homes and
    places of work."
  created: '2006-09-07 23:10:25'
date: '2006-08-24 23:20:57'
node_type: forum
title: unusual signage

---
