---
author:
  name: juandelperal
  picture: 111849
body: "(in English Below)\r\n\r\nAqu\xED por primera vez doy a luz una tipograf\xEDa.
  Se llama kalidoscopio y es una familia corporativa para mi estudio de dise\xF1o.
  Algunos detalles todav\xEDa est\xE1n por terminar de afinarse pero de todas formas
  me encantar\xEDa conocer sus sugerencias, cr\xEDticas o lo que les plazca.\r\n\r\nMuch\xEDsimas
  gracias. Juan Pablo del Peral\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\nHere, for the first time my typography
  is viewing the sunlight. His name is kalidoscopio and is a corporative typography
  of the design studio that I have. Some details are being finishing but I want to
  listen your opinion.\r\n\r\nThank you very much. Juan Pablo del Peral.\r\n\r\n(Sorry
  about my poor English)"
comments:
- author:
    name: Pixion
  body: "Looks great, it has a dancy aspect but seems quite readable. What is the
    application?\r\n\r\nAlso, I wonder why you decided to clip the stems where 'normally'
    the stroke would extend to the x-height / baseline? It adds 'dancy roundness'
    but I think it also reduces readability. \r\n\r\nSebastian"
  created: '2006-09-01 16:32:35'
- author:
    name: ruido blanco
  body: "Est\xE1 buena, esas terminaciones le dan un movimiento particular. Pero tiene
    algunas cosas que se necesitan optimizar, por ej. los acentos se ven muy corridos
    a la izquierda."
  created: '2006-09-03 17:12:39'
- author:
    name: juandelperal
    picture: 111849
  body: "Muchas gracias por los comentarios. Desde ayer empez\xE9 a trabajar en las
    correcciones que han sugerido. Pasa que de tanto mirar lo mismo uno deja de verlo
    realmente.\r\nCon respecto a las formas redondeadas en la parte superior de las
    letras, estoy tratando de corregirlas sin perder la escencia del ritmo que se
    genera en textos largos. Luego mostrar\xE9 im\xE1genes. Muchas gracias y ser\xE1n
    bienvenidos m\xE1s comentarios.\r\n\r\n=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|\r\n\r\nThank
    you very much by the commentaries. Since yesterday I started to work in the corrections
    that you have suggested. It happens that of as much watching one the same thing
    it lets really see it.\r\nWith respect to the roundness in the top of the letters,
    I am trying to correct them without losing the the rhythm that is generated in
    long texts. Soon I will show images. Thank you very much, more commentaries will
    be welcome."
  created: '2006-09-04 15:06:43'
- author:
    name: juandelperal
    picture: 111849
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ajuste-n_6275.png]\r\npienso que esto
    ayuda un poco."
  created: '2006-09-07 15:52:42'
- author:
    name: juandelperal
    picture: 111849
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/protofamily_6005.jpg]\r\n_\r\n  \r\nLa
    primera versi\xF3n de la tipograf\xEDa era demasiado clara, pienso que kalidoscopio
    redonda logra un gris m\xE1s digno que el anterior.\r\nPara lograrlo la interpol\xE9
    con la versi\xF3n Negra en FontLab.\r\nCuando est\xE9n terminados los detalles
    subir\xE9 nuevamente un PDF con los pesos declinados."
  created: '2006-09-07 16:00:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I would suggest more Myriad, less Frutiger.\r\nIn other words, because the
    interest in your typeface is in the letter shapes, and the curves are quite round,
    rather than grotesque, you should not add flaring to any terminals, but should
    instead concentrate on giving the entire face the appearance of a monoline.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ee_6086.jpg]"
  created: '2006-10-01 19:23:54'
- author:
    name: juandelperal
    picture: 111849
  body: "Muchas gracias por el comentario. La propuesta de la tipograf\xEDa, inicialmente
    se basaba en dar a los caracteres algunos rasgos asim\xE9tricos, de esta manera
    volver a las formas un poco m\xE1s graciosas e impredecibles. A su vez darles
    como un patr\xF3n de crecimiento basado en el espiral. Esto quiz\xE1 puede notarse
    en la asimetr\xEDa de la curva de la c, que en la parte inferior se vuelve mucho
    m\xE1s abierta.\r\nEsta decisi\xF3n tiene base en el movimiento del isotipo de
    kalidoscopio. De todas formas voy a hacer pruebas a ver que pasa.\r\n\r\n=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|\r\n\r\nThank
    you very much by the commentary. The proposal of the typography, initially was
    based on giving to the characters some asymmetric characteristics, to make the
    shapes a little more graceful and unpredictable. To give them like a pattern of
    growth based on the spiral as well. Perhaps this can notice in the asymmetry of
    the curve of the c, that in the inferior part becomes more open.\r\nThis decision
    has base in the movement of logo of kalidoscopio. Whatever, I\u2019m going to
    test to see what it happens.\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SC_5978.png]"
  created: '2006-10-03 13:56:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think the gentle flares are nice.\r\nYour \"c\" is super, but your \"s\"
    is not happy. It might need to be narrower, or have a more curvy spine (especially
    at the top-right of the bottom bowl). Plus you need more weight in the spine and
    less in its adjacent curves (especially the top-left one).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-03 16:22:30'
- author:
    name: juandelperal
    picture: 111849
  body: "Hrant\r\nYou're right. I'll work in the s. The S looks better than the lowercase.
    Thank you\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/S_4049.png]"
  created: '2006-10-03 19:48:37'
- author:
    name: Rene Verkaart
    picture: 110212
  body: "I like this font. With a bit tweaking here and there this will work very
    well. \r\nHere are some of the things that caught my eye. Some might be caused
    by the screen, cut I'll give 'm to you anyway:\r\n\r\n- 'S' and 's' are hanging
    backworks. Like Hrant said they could be narrower, like your 'E'. Besides that
    you might wanna give it a bit of a rotation clockwise.\r\n- Most important in
    a font IMHO are the proportions. It looks like you 'b' is wider as the 'd'. 'p'
    looks wider as the 'q'.\r\n- Because you cut off the tail of the 'a' it look a
    bit smaller. By doing that you put the focus on the bowl. Perhaps you could try
    making the right lower side of the bowl less angled. If you open up the bowl a
    bit more you get more air in it and it might help balance the font again. \r\n-
    I like it that you haven't descide whether to make a roman or an italic. Mix it
    baby. Some characters (A, V, W, y, x) have an italic feel to it that gives the
    font a swing.\r\n- Perhaps you could move the accent in the 'i', it's hanging
    a bit to much left.\r\n- Try correcting some weight problems. Some characters
    look like they are thicker than others. Look for the V, W, v, \r\n- Who kicked
    that '8'? Personally I don't think you need the bent curve on the lower right
    bowl.\r\n- Please change the mouth of the '5', I have the feeling this is a whale
    with an open mouth fishing for plancton. Perhaps you could bring it closer to
    the '3'.\r\n- I don't know if the middle of the 'k' should be higher. Might be
    that takes the funk out and than you should leave it like it is.\r\n- Although
    I like your accents, they might be to classical for this sans serif font. They
    would work very well on a serif font, but here they feel to sharp. Try getting
    the characteristix between the characters and the accents right.\r\n\r\nThat's
    it for now. My time is up.\r\n\xAEen\xE9"
  created: '2006-10-10 11:30:08'
- author:
    name: juandelperal
    picture: 111849
  body: "<strong>\xAEen\xE9:</strong>\r\nThank you very much for all your comments,
    I'll work in all that stuff. The letter \"s\", \"a\", & \"e\" are now changing.
    The images will be later in the forum.\r\nThank you for all your commentaries,
    there are really important."
  created: '2006-10-10 17:27:59'
- author:
    name: juandelperal
    picture: 111849
  body: "Many new Glyphs.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/letras-nuevas_6563.png]"
  created: '2006-11-29 00:45:40'
- author:
    name: juandelperal
    picture: 111849
  body: "<strong>Nuevo pdf | </strong> kalidoscopio thin.pdf\r\nEn el primer topic
    hay un nuevo pdf provisorio. Est\xE1n modificadas las curvas, algunos rasgos y
    las proporciones, ahora un poco m\xE1s condensadas. \r\nLa idea es desarrollar
    los dos extremos (thin y black) y luego interpolarlos.\r\nEspero sus comentarios
    y cr\xEDticas. Un abrazo\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/kalidoscopio%20thin.pdf"
  created: '2006-12-15 16:13:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Juan Pablo,\r\nThe form battles you are fighting with your Kalidoscopio remind
    me of the struggles I had with my Leporello a couple of years ago, particularly
    the m, n, u, and a. I hope you have more success than I did with it :-) Part of
    the problem is how the glyphs sit on the line. Tight now it seems a bit bouncy.
    Your s looks a bit brogen mostly in the lower curve. The most uncomfortable glyph
    is the \"g\". You need to really look at the outer curve as opposed to the inner
    curve and release that pinch between the bowls in some way.\r\nKeep fighting with
    it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-15 16:53:13'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Ah, I really like the attitude in this font. Besides from the small corrections
    as other has already talked about, I also feel that you should maybe rethink regarding
    the letter \"g\". Maybe even do a \"kill your darlings\" here :)\r\n\r\nIt steals
    the attention to much I believe and while all the other letters feel open and
    smooth round, the \"g\" is kind of like opposite. It\u2019s good that it make
    the whole font personal, but maybe a little too much?\r\n\r\nSo, my suggestion
    would be to make the \"g\" a little bit more smooth and also maybe just a little
    bigger upper bowl to make it sing-a-long with the other letters that have a more
    open feeling to them.\r\nGreat Work! I love the uppercase A with the not straight
    stem :)\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-15 17:07:17'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I'm really impressed with this font. The only character that makes me really
    uncomfortable is \u201Cx\u201D; the one major curve just doesn't fit with the
    other three straight strokes. I like the design of \u201Cg,\u201D but I would
    probably try making the bowl a little larger and moving more of the loop below
    the baseline so that it is similar in size to \u201Cp\u201D and \u201Cq.\u201D
    Lastly, \u201Cr\u201D seems a little narrow in comparison to the rest of the characters,
    especially \u201Cm\u201D and \u201Cn.\u201D"
  created: '2006-12-15 17:19:38'
- author:
    name: juandelperal
    picture: 111849
  body: "Muchas gracias por sus comentarios. La verdad que la g es una letra que me
    est\xE1 costando, a mi particularmente me gusta, pero pienso que la he visto demasiado
    como para opinar objetivamente. La x todav\xEDa no la arreglo, pero  pronto lo
    har\xE9.\r\nMuch\xEDsimas gracias por sus comentarios, hasta pronto.\r\n\r\n=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|=|\r\n\r\nThank
    you very much for your commentaries. The truth that the g is a letter that is
    costing to me, particularly I like it, but I think that I have seen too much it
    to thinking objectively. I still don't fix the x but soon I will do it.\r\nThanks
    a lot for your commentaries, until soon. \r\n\r\n\r\nJuan Pablo"
  created: '2006-12-15 18:49:33'
- author:
    name: juandelperal
    picture: 111849
  body: "What do you think?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/g_5152.png]"
  created: '2006-12-26 18:44:09'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: Ah, I think this g is much better than before. Great, nice balance.
  created: '2006-12-26 19:42:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Better, but also try a \"g\" without an ear.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-27 00:43:35'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Juan Pablo, ahora no tengo la atenci\xF3n adecuada para criticar tu fuente.
    De entrada me gusta el ritmo y la personalidad que transmite y s\xF3lo me salta
    a la vista la letra a min\xFAscula, definitivamente le hace falta una cola para
    que se asiente.\r\n\r\nBuent trabajo.\r\n\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-12-27 04:57:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Or a diagonal ear.
  created: '2006-12-27 15:33:11'
- author:
    name: juandelperal
    picture: 111849
  body: Yeah. I will do another g. Images soon. Thanks about your comments guys
  created: '2006-12-28 16:56:22'
- author:
    name: juandelperal
    picture: 111849
  body: "I think now is better. In any case the shape is provisory, is necessary to
    do many adjustments to that Glyph. What do you think?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1_4535.gif]"
  created: '2007-02-25 05:06:58'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Maybe try pulling a bit of that r arm to make an alternative g ear too. This
    ear is cool but in this context catches my eye too much. In another font it wouldn't.
    See what I mean? Then again- I would like to see it in a text contect to know
    for sure. This is still looking very nice.
  created: '2007-02-25 07:05:32'
- author:
    name: juandelperal
    picture: 111849
  body: "Thanks Eben.\r\nA new version of my dear g\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/g4_5758.gif]"
  created: '2007-02-27 16:58:35'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "That seems very pleasing to me. :-) \r\n\r\nWhat do you guys think? \r\n\r\nI
    really like the old g too. I bet the old one would be a great design to use in
    the italic if you expand the face. Or maybe you can have text & a display versions.
    The old g would be nice in display too. I think then new one is better for text
    for sure."
  created: '2007-02-27 17:14:53'
- author:
    name: Rene Verkaart
    picture: 110212
  body: "Juan Pablo, I agree with you that the old 'g' (26 december) looks better
    IMHO. It had more personality. You might wanna make it just a little bit narrower,
    because the inner forms seem a tiny bit to big in comparence to the other characters.
    But that could be the screen resolution playing with my eyes.\r\nI agree with
    Hrant that you should try one without an ear. It would fit to the underlaying
    style of the font.\r\nThe new 'g' fits harmonically within the font, but it has
    lost its teath. It looks just very 'correct'. Nothing that you might remember.
    But that's perhaps the good thing with it.\r\n\r\nI don't know what else you've
    corrected, but in the last pdf I saw some problems with the 'v', 'w', 'x' and
    'y'. They look out of tune with the rest. \r\nIf you take a spin at the 'w', try
    using the legs 'thick-thin-thick-thin'-technique. Now your outer legs are thick
    and the inner thin. This looks a bit strange to me. \r\n\r\nWhy is the top of
    the 'f' diving back down again? Why not opening the top by making it look more
    like the 'r'. This seems to look up into the sky and filosophize about it's too
    short life.  ;-)\r\n\r\nYou've curved the leg of the 'y' a bit like a wave. Have
    you tried this form yet?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/y_4390.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    tow of the 't' seems a bit to thick. I think it stands out a little to much. It's
    like a drop of ink hanging at the end there.\r\n\r\nIs that your comma in the
    pdf? That's much to caligraphic for your font.\r\n\r\nThe 'x' isn't doing it for
    me. Sorry...\r\n\r\nBut he, other than that I still like this font a lot.\r\n\r\nIf
    you can, upload a new pdf so we can take a closer look at it. Keep up the good
    work.\r\n\r\n\xAEen\xE9"
  created: '2007-03-13 22:42:25'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Looking at the g again I notice that it feels a bit heavy. Maybe try making
    the join to the body at the base of the ear more narrow. If you wanted to keep
    the ear but make it less old style you could also make the ear shorter. The old
    ear or no ear could work too depending on what you want the text to feel like.
    Actually..... you could probably do well treating the ear differently at different
    optical sizes. The smaller the text the more it will benefit from the diagonal
    ear. At Headline sizes you could have a linear ear or a modified diagonal and
    at very large sizes you could loose the ear altogether as statement. Or not. Just
    thinking out loud.
  created: '2007-03-13 22:54:09'
- author:
    name: juandelperal
    picture: 111849
  body: "\xAEene & Eben\r\nVery thanks. I will work on my typography soon. I really
    have not time to design my typeface, but I will upload soon a new PDF. My work
    now consist in refine the details of the glyphs in extralight & in black.\r\nI
    think that viewing the typography in all weights, the problems and the solutions
    will be more visible.\r\nSoon my pdfs and thanks again men."
  created: '2007-03-17 16:22:51'
- author:
    name: juandelperal
    picture: 111849
  body: "<strong>New PDF:</strong>\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/cambios.pdf\r\nPor
    ahora solo caja baja con un espaciado provisorio y autokerning de indesign. El
    pr\xF3ximo paso es la caja alta. Mil gracias por sus cr\xEDticas... juan!\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cambios_6524.gif]"
  created: '2007-05-07 18:16:33'
- author:
    name: juandelperal
    picture: 111849
  body: "Please, take a look the new version and a draft of the complete family at\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/kalidoscopiosept2007.pdf\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\nJuan[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kalidoscopiosept2007_5125.gif]"
  created: '2007-09-25 22:14:46'
- author:
    name: Rene Verkaart
    picture: 110212
  body: "Juan, that looks really nice. I still like it like I did from the beginning.
    \r\n\r\nA few things caught my eye:\r\n- perhaps you could make the italic 'e'
    round. The horizontal middle line is straight now. It might look better when this
    is round so it fits better to the italic character.\r\n- to me, the 'z' and 'Z'
    don't really fit to the overall character of the font. Perhaps you just wanna
    make the diagonal straight?\r\n- The italic 'a' is a difficult one. To the eye
    (at least my eye) it's to close to the 'o', therefor it makes the words harder
    to read. I get where you're coming from, but it might put to much strain on the
    eye.\r\n\r\nI see there are still little spacing problems that need to be resolved,
    but other than that I think it's just fine. It has a certain charme that you should
    preserve.\r\n\r\nUp to the next round."
  created: '2007-10-17 21:06:16'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Juan, I agree with Rene about there being spacing issues and the z and italic
    a. I think it would be okay to break the 'rule' about not having a tail for that
    italic a. In general I think that the glyphs are spaced a little tight for text.
    But they seem very good for Captions, Headlines & so on. What if you finish what
    you have as a headline & caption font and then come back to it from a text oriented
    point of view. That way you don't compromise either one. keep going. It's getting
    better & better.\r\n\r\n-e."
  created: '2007-10-17 21:47:52'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: Reichel got away with that stuff, why shouldn't del Peral? Anyhow, the font
    definitely wouldn't be the same with normalized stems. And it's not intended to
    be used to set long texts. Hm. I opine that there's a limit to which legibility
    concerns can control a font, and after that they start making everything look
    like Helvetica. Sorry, I was just sweeping the forums before going to bed and
    decided to write a comment.
  created: '2007-10-18 21:34:43'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: Wait, that was supposed to be just edited. I made that comment like a year
    ago and did a minor change just now as I reread it. That wasn't supposed to get
    bumped all the way to the end of the thread. I guess something's changed in the
    workings of the forum since I last came here so long ago.
  created: '2007-10-18 21:37:41'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> and after that they start making everything look like Helvetica </cite>\r\n\r\nI
    don't think so at all. Maybe like other sans... For instance Meta looks nothing
    like Helvetica but it does have legibility helping features. So therefore - not
    all stems are alike."
  created: '2007-10-18 21:37:47'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: There has been. I would advise you not to touch up old posts. It will create
    idea flow havoc. And so obviously I am responding to you old idea - do you still
    stick to it?
  created: '2007-10-18 21:39:26'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "As I say, I wrote that quite a while ago. I'd write something different now,
    most probably.\r\n\r\nEdit: And I wrote this before I saw your second comment,
    though it jives okay. This will take a bit of getting used to."
  created: '2007-10-18 21:40:32'
date: '2006-09-01 00:38:58'
title: kalidoscopio - from Mendoza, Argentina

---
