---
author:
  name: timd
  picture: 110125
body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1858943558_5017.02._SS500_SCLZZZZZZZ_V53032881_.jpg]\r\n\r\nNot
  <em>quite</em> in print yet, have they got time to save it?\r\nNice to see you back
  again.\r\nTim"
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess I am missing something.  Is this a real book coming out or a joke?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-01 14:34:10'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: It sure looks like it could a real book to me, and an interesting one at that.
    Where is the colossal error? The tongue-in-cheek religious play?
  created: '2006-09-01 14:54:19'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: It's the misspelling of <cite>foreword</cite>, silly.
  created: '2006-09-01 14:55:32'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Spire gets the gold star and two of you stay behind after class:)\r\nThe
    book isn't out yet but it is on various book-selling websites and appeared in
    Design Week (a UK trade mag) yesterday with that spelling.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-09-01 15:01:20'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "\u2026I guess that shows everyone how good of a copy editor I am ;-)"
  created: '2006-09-01 15:02:05'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "Maybe its ment to say 'Forward'? :)\r\nIts always 'forward' with Jonathan
    Barnbrook, never 'rewind'. :)\r\n<em>( But I dont really 'see' the 'by'. Maybe
    'forward' = Barnbrook? :)</em>\r\n\r\nNice find, nonetheless.\r\n\r\nDav"
  created: '2006-09-01 16:20:08'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I believe--but could, of course, be wrong--that this is still an accepted
    spelling of this word in England.
  created: '2006-09-01 16:35:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Am I the only one that thinks this a really ugly cover, with bad typography?
    Maybe this--including the typo--is supposed to be a joke. Violating all the ten
    commandments or something.  '
  created: '2006-09-01 16:39:08'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "As PR stunts go, I have to say this one is pretty sad :-(\r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2006-09-01 16:44:02'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "My foreward shall be drawn out all in length,\r\nConsisting equally of horse
    and foot.\r\n- Shakespeare; Richard III, Act V, Scene 3\r\n\r\nI don't think this
    was ever the correct spelling of the word in England, certainly not in any current
    use, the above is the only quote I can find and means a vanguard (a guard sent
    ahead); but it could still be a joke, however weak.\r\nTim\r\n\r\nAnd I'm guessing
    these are errors too\r\nhttp://eggcorns.lascribe.net/forum/viewtopic.php?pid=1117"
  created: '2006-09-01 16:56:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I''m pretty sure from the <a href="http://www.amazon.co.uk/Ten-Commandments-Typography-Type-Heresy/dp/1858943558/sr=8-6/qid=1157127915/ref=sr_1_6/026-1981832-7267626?ie=UTF8&s=gateway">this
    description</a> of the book that my interpretation of the bad typography and typo
    is correct. '
  created: '2006-09-01 17:45:08'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Well then that is too bad, as the humor is going to be lost on a lot of people. '
  created: '2006-09-01 17:58:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Am I the only one that thinks this a really ugly cover, with bad typography?\"\r\n\r\nNo,
    that is why I asked if it was a joke. It is ugly as sin (punintended) to me but
    not executed in such a way as to amuse.  If anyone has ever seen the old film
    \"Plan Nine\" they will know that is so increadibly bad that it is a joy to watch
    and laugh your guts out. This cover, on the other hand, is just boringly bad and
    needs to be excomunicated or excorcized.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n(I know my spelling
    sucks)"
  created: '2006-09-01 18:26:46'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "A friend of mine works as a designer at that particular publisher and assures
    me that the typo is just that, not an intentionally antiquated spelling. Steps
    are being taken to rectify the error as we speak.\r\n\r\nInstead of sniping why
    not be constructive and say why you dislike it? You never know who might be reading..."
  created: '2006-09-05 21:23:26'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">A friend of mine \r\n\r\nCome on Chris G, \"a friend\" ;-)\r\n\r\n>Instead
    of sniping ... You never know who might be reading\u2026 \r\n\r\nI think everyone
    who posts to threads like this hopes the 'culprit' is lurking and will respond
    - the most interesting typophile threads start that way... (The iPod-Che-Nike
    thread being an exception). "
  created: '2006-09-05 21:36:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Instead of sniping why not be constructive and say why you dislike it?\"\r\n\r\nThe
    difficulty in this is that your cover is supposed to be bad on purpose so whatever
    is specifically wrong is obvious.  My objection is that the parody has not gone
    far enough to make me want to look at it.  I think you could have done more with
    the heresy aspect. The problem is that it is just boring looking. Having a concept
    in your mind of doing bad typography as a joke is not enough.  You have to execute
    it so that it works.  It still has to function as a book cover and do its job.
    \ If I saw this at a bookstore, I would never have given it a second glance. I
    would not have looked at it long enough to see that it was a joke. It just melts
    into the visual clutter. The only half-way saving grace in it may be an accident--the
    two brown rectangles appear to be the negative space in the letter \"H\" which
    may be Heresy. Other than that, snore zzzzzzz.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-05 22:19:56'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>... say why you dislike it?</em>\r\n\r\nNot to put too fine a point (sic)
    on it: they could send a lot of wordspace (or should that be <em>ward</em>space?)
    to some worthy cause that may not have enough. Every line is set in that awful
    default: 100%, which looks particularly nasty in the headline \u201CType ... Heresy\u201D.
    Or is that large gap an intended illustration of itself? \r\n"
  created: '2006-09-05 23:40:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Unless I'm mistaken, it looks from the Amazon UK picture that the white on
    the sides is not part of the cover, so the 'H', which Chris finds a redeeming
    device, isn't there. Ouch. \r\n\r\nOk, I'm game. Here are my commandments of Typography
    (pinched from others):\r\n\r\n1. Thy type shall be legible. \r\nObedience here.
    \r\nOk, but now downhill. \r\n\r\n2. Thy visual hierarchy shall express the conceptual
    relationships of the author. \r\nViolation. \r\nThe idea of the book is a duality:
    Those who represent classic type wisdom and obey the rules, including Tschichold
    and Spiekermann, verses type 'heretics' who break the rules. \r\n\r\nHere there
    are random sized bits of brown and white, no relation. A way to do this would
    be to split the cover in half, eg horizontally or diagonally, with one side black
    on white and the other black with white knocked out, or red and black or another
    two colors. The border could look like torn paper, indicating visually the opposition
    and disruption. I don't know if this particular concept would work, but it would
    be a. more visually arresting and b. reflect the idea of the book. Both a plus.
    \r\n\r\n...to be continued...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-06 00:24:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "3. Thy placement of type will have a pleasing relation to the space it occupies.\r\n\r\nViolation.
    \ \r\n\r\nAside from being centered, the type seems to have no visual logic. Does
    the shape of the cross relate to the top brown block? No. Does the Cross plus
    the text relate? No. Why do we have a short line, long line then small short line,
    followed by a new color with lines all different lengths again? Why the color
    block again at the bottom? I at any rate can't see any rhyme or reason. \r\n\r\nPart
    of the problem here is the two titles and subtitles of the book. The full thing
    according to Amazon: The Ten Commandments of Typography/Type Heresy: Breaking
    the Ten Commandments of Typography\r\n\r\nNow having two titles and subtitles
    is breaking the rules. In my opinion this breaking can be ok because it has a
    compensating benefit: it is an arresting, interesting opposition. But the cover
    doesn't have the whole two titles, so the whole thing becomes a muddle. The point
    is, if you are going to break rules, you need to make a virtue of it. It has to
    have a strong point. Here the point is just lost because the two titles are not
    even put on the cover! \r\n\r\nBut--back to placement of text--as it is there
    is no rhyme or reason to the placement. And that is what looks most weak in the
    layout. \r\n\r\n4. Thou shalt keep logically related words visually together.\r\n
    \r\nViolation. \r\n\r\nThe important concepts are: 'Ten Commandments' and 'Typography'.\r\n\r\nSo
    the designer *breaks up* the words 'Ten' and 'Commandments'!\r\n\r\nThe other
    key concept is \"Type Heresy\", which as Erik Spiekermann points out are separated
    now by a double word space or something. \r\n\r\n3. Thy typeface shall be well
    suited to the subject matter.  \r\n\r\nOk if the top title were in Sabon (Tschichold)
    or Meta (Spiekermann) that would make sense. But it's not, it seems. Since the
    subject is actually type, I don't understand why the avoidance. Also is the 'Type
    Heresy' one of Branbrook's fonts? Maybe but I couldn't spot it checking. Why not
    use Mason or one of his other wonderfully disturbing faces?\r\n\r\nAlso why put
    'Heresy' in black letter and Ten Commandments in Roman? If you are playing on
    the association of Church and Blackletter, then *both* should be in blackletter.
    The two titles should also be massaged so they are parallel. That is a failing
    of the author or publisher, but the designer could ask. Then perhaps you could
    have 'Ten Commandments' twice in black letter, and 'Heresy' in Mason.\r\n\r\n4.
    Space and size thy lines, word spaces and letter spaces in a way that suits their
    function and purpose.\r\n\r\nViolations.\r\n\r\nWhy is the top title smaller than
    the bottom title? Why is the second subtitle in a different font again? Why is
    the second time the author mentioned smaller than the first? \r\n\r\nI could go
    on, but I'm now tired of the game. \r\n\r\nAs others have said: if this was trying
    to break rules in a funny way, it doesn't succeed. If it wasn't trying to break
    rules, well it does, all over the place. "
  created: '2006-09-06 01:02:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">the \u2018H\u2019, which Chris finds a redeeming device, isn\u2019t there.
    Ouch.\r\n\r\nAh, Chris obviously saw a 3pt field goal opportunity, looks like
    he's knocked it wide right setting up good field position for the opposing team.
    William capitalized with an additional 6 unanswered points. ;-)   \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-06 02:31:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...Chris obviously saw a 3pt field goal opportunity...\"\r\n\r\n3pts? I
    don't know Si, that cross bar looks like it is at least 72pts high to me, I am
    throwing in the red flag and challenging that call :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-06 02:49:28'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: After further review...
  created: '2006-09-06 02:55:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Doh!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/simpsons_scream_lo_3886.jpg]\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-06 02:58:56'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: 'Hey, doesn''t the title look like " letterspaced lowercase? " '
  children:
  - author:
      name: eriks
      picture: 110449
    body: Thou shalst not shag thy sheep!
    created: '2006-09-06 07:46:50'
  created: '2006-09-06 05:57:54'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: Good Advertisement! Ask Dezcom?
  created: '2006-09-06 08:13:10'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "<cite>Come on Chris G, \u201Ca friend\u201D ;-)</cite>\r\n\r\nLOL! :) So
    cynical Sii... believe me I would love to be doing some book design, particularly
    typography books, but am currently at an ad agency doing design of a more ephemeral
    nature. My friend at Merrell is lurking on the forum and has no doubt taken on
    board your comments - thanks to everyone for their input"
  created: '2006-09-06 10:11:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thou shalt not covet thy neighbors sheep.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-06 13:20:11'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">LOL! :) So cynical Sii\u2026\r\n\r\n;-)\r\n\r\n>My friend at Merrell is
    lurking on the forum and has no doubt taken on board your comments \r\n\r\nBlessed
    be the lurkers for they shalt inherit the advice, (whilst cloaked in a veil of
    secrecy)"
  created: '2006-09-06 17:38:37'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> Thou shalt not covet thy neighbors sheep.\r\nDezcom, How if the neighbor
    insists? Rights of Neighborhood?"
  created: '2006-09-06 19:25:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!\r\nThen you just give him that sheepish grin and tell him you can't
    do to health reasons :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: AzizMostafa
      picture: 111536
    body: How if healthy, wealthy, wise and welcoming .000O________________O000.?
    created: '2006-09-06 19:30:21'
  created: '2006-09-06 19:28:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ":^D\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-06 19:32:13'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: Learning to see is harder than learning to look?!
  created: '2006-09-06 19:35:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I wonder where you saw that?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-06 19:39:34'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: I do believe we are now participating in something called 'viral marketing.'
  created: '2006-09-07 03:08:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That struck me as well Eric.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-07 03:41:43'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Five Stages Of Grief \r\n1. Denial - \"Is this a real book coming out or
    a joke?\" \r\n2. Anger - \"Am I the only one that thinks this a really ugly cover,
    with bad typography?\" \r\n3. Bargaining - \"Instead of sniping why not be constructive
    and say why you dislike it?\"\r\n4. Depression - \"As PR stunts go, I have to
    say this one is pretty sad\" \r\n5. Acceptance - \"I do believe we are now participating
    in something called \u2018viral marketing.\u2019\" \r\n "
  created: '2006-09-07 04:11:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Si,\r\nYou forgot one Step \r\n\r\n6. Resignation--I resolve to never buy
    this book.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-07 12:52:42'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<strong>I guess Barnbrooks ideas go somewhere close to what Bob Gill once
    said.\r\n\"If this deliberate typo only creates one thread on Typophile and annoys
    only a handful of visitors there, then all of the months I spent putting it together
    will not have been worth it.\"</strong>\r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2006-09-07 13:15:49'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "also, wtf is up with the bizarre break on the front?\r\n\r\nthe ten / commandments?
    why break the principal subject onto two lines? very odd looking to me. Ruari
    would not be pleased.\r\n\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt : http://www.hewnandhammered.com
    : rnrmf!"
  created: '2006-09-07 18:33:10'
- author:
    name: Feltsy
  body: "Hello Everyone,\r\nI Hope everyone is well. I'm the author of the book you've
    all been discussing, so I thought who best to answer all your questions than myself.\r\n\r\nFirstly,
    I would like to say please don't judge the book off this picture, Originally this
    picture was created for the sole purpose of showing the printers where the foil
    was intended to go and was produced incredibly quickly (hence the spelling mistake,
    no it wasn't a stunt!) This picture has now been used on pretty much everything,
    which I wouldn't say I'm over the moon about really, but thats one of those things,
    Very well spotted though!\r\n\r\nRegards the line break on the cover, I considered
    the title to be too long to occupy one line and ideally I wanted to keep the 'ten
    commandments of typography' part together. If you think thats odd then thats fair
    enough, I respect your opinion and if we all had the same opinions regarding typography
    the world would be a very dull place, so I do accept that.\r\n\r\nRegarding the
    comment about never buying it, that again is totally fine, I'm often just as guilty
    of making decisions on a book purely by the cover, but I personally think its
    a bit harsh to make the comments you have without actually viewing the content.
    Judging by the fact that Matthew Carter, Jeff Keedy and Jonathan Barnbrook have
    all seen the content and were happy to be associated with it, plus the review
    in this months Grafik magazine it can't be that bad.\r\n\r\nI don't want to go
    on too much but I think the Type Heresy section, needs clearing up too. The book
    is a flip format book, so the image you can see is only the Commandments cover,
    I know its a bit hard to understand with just that cover image, the white section
    is essentially a belly band, its alot easier to understand when you actually have
    the book in front of you.\r\n\r\nI hope I don't come across like I'm having a
    rant because I'm not, I just wanted to get my case across! Maybe I can arrange
    to post a copy out to one of you guys and then make a judgement, Its not strictly
    buying it so you wouldn't be going back on your word! Plus if you still think
    its crap then I will hold my hands up and respect your decision!\r\n\r\nSorry
    to ramble on but I hope to hear back from you all soon\r\n\r\nPaul"
  created: '2006-10-04 22:34:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Dear Paul,\r\n\r\nIf you would like me to read and review your book, I would
    be happy to do an honest job of it. That means I will tell what I think and why.
    I try not to judge a book by its cover but that can be a problem when the book
    deals with typography.  I wish you had just come out straight with an announcement
    of your book without the cover becoming the issue. There are a lot of type people
    here on Typophile who would give it a fair read and a courteous but unbiased review.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-04 22:58:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Paul, thanks for delurking and stumping up a response to the choir.. I\u2019m
    sure we\u2019ll all have a flick through it once it hits our local bookshop. Cheers,
    Si"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Feltsy
    body: "Thats great,\r\nThanks Si, do both bare in mind however the target audience
      of the book isn't so much you guys that are well educated in type, although
      I have tried to still make it enjoyable for the more advanced typographers.
      I hope you enjoy it but let me know any feedback if  do get chance to have a
      look at it\r\n\r\nCheers\r\nPaul"
    created: '2006-10-04 23:17:56'
  created: '2006-10-04 23:09:10'
- author:
    name: Feltsy
  body: "Hi Chirs,\r\nThanks for getting back to me, I do completely agree, if I was
    in your shoes I would most probably have been saying the same as you guys, having
    seen that image on its own. I would be most pleased for you to read my book and
    the more your honest your review the better, I hope I didn't come across like
    I only want people say how wonderful my book is, thats not the case at all, I'm
    a strong believer in critisicm, its how we learn to become better designers after
    all. All I ask is that my book gets judged on the book itself not a jpeg off Amazon.\r\n\r\nSorry
    for the late reply I have only just got back from spain on my hols last week so
    have been bogged down at work\r\nPaul"
  created: '2006-10-04 23:13:02'
date: '2006-09-01 11:48:27'
title: joke or colossal error?

---
