---
author:
  name: scruggsdesign
  picture: 128176
body: "I wasn't able to go to [[TypeCon]] this year so when I saw all the features
  on the TypeCon website (TypeCon Talk, Type Gallery, TypeCon TV!) I was excited that
  I wouldn't be totally missing out. Well, it's been a few weeks now and theres still
  nothing up. I was hoping to see video or audio of speekers, blog posts... It looks
  like TypeRadio didn't do anything special either. So... what happened? Those that
  went, what was the highlight for you. Best presentation, workshop, best thing you
  learned...\r\n\r\nJosh"
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Best presentation for me was the Frutiger tribute.  I also learned a great
    deal from the Dwiggins Fest.  The best one-liners were from David Berlow \"Scrolling
    all the way to Martha's Vinyard\"\r\nThe best part is always meeting the people
    and being able to unabashedly talk type without seeing the unannointed glaze over
    in boredom :-)\r\nThe PunchCut online hazing via onscreen textmessaging was a
    scream too! The Boston weather was PERFECT!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-01 18:14:50'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Only one session was recorded (OS X Font Management) and it will be up next
    week. We'd like to do more recording (at least audio) next year, but that is largely
    dependent on able volunteers.
  created: '2006-09-01 18:39:24'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "\r\nTypeRadio isn't a part of TypeCon, but they have in the past (and hopefull
    will again) broadcast from TypeCon.\r\n\r\nTypeCon TV is something we are hoping
    to incorporate in the future. \r\n\r\nTypeGallery will be updated soon(ish)."
  created: '2006-09-01 18:54:20'
- author:
    name: Jonathan Clede
    picture: 110376
  body: "I enjoyed everything David Berlow said, and I also enjoyed the presentation
    on the type design for the Xbox 360. I would have been annoyed enough to stab
    myself if I had to do such a project without being able to see what it would look
    like in its final setting. That, I suppose is one of my personal issues I ought
    to work on. ;)\r\n\r\nAlso, if you haven't already, I recommend checking out the
    Typecon group on Flickr. Viewing those photos will give you an idea of what went
    on at typecon.\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/groups/typecon/pool/\r\n\r\nDaidala has
    a few good blog entries on TypeCon too.\r\nhttp://www.daidala.com/\r\n\r\n-Jon-"
  created: '2006-09-02 00:31:05'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "I really enjoyed meeting all the real live typographic afficionados and talking
    to them face to face (rather than online). It was so wonderful to be surrounded
    by people who all dealt with and who were all involved with type in different
    ways. I thought the most entertaining bit was the typographic videos that were
    presented at the start of the conference and especially the little video on what
    a typographer sees when out in the real world. I would *love* to get a copy of
    that to show my students!\r\n\r\nFor me, seeing the Helvetica film preview was
    a real treat; hearing personal stories about Adrian Frutiger was really impressive;
    meeting other type teachers and attending the type education forum was great fun
    and provided me with lots of ideas; and I really enjoyed the presentation by Nicolas
    Benson on the memorial he designed and his experience with cutting all the letters
    into the stone and battling the elements.\r\n\r\nIt was a really great time.\r\nAndi"
  created: '2006-09-02 01:16:23'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "David Berlow \u201CScrolling all the way to Martha\u2019s Vinyard\u201D \r\n\r\nI
    did not say that...we were too far north at the time and looking at a character
    that had no descenders, (I).\r\n\r\nThanks to Sota and the attendees, there was
    a good amount for content with guts. My faves: Apple admitting their font management
    is thin. w3c's Lilly announcing that the \"network\" was going to take care of
    this (screen font) problem. MS announcing that they would not help was also refreshingly
    honest. The fashion show was really cool, I wish now that I'd bought a \"kern\"
    hoodie. And it's always nice to be un-caffeinated, as I always am, amongst a whirling
    swirl of addicts. But the most joy I always get at conferences is seeing the people
    come out of the engine rooms of this industry to sit in the sunshine and hear
    nice things about type, because they deserve it the most. "
  created: '2006-09-03 15:01:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I did not say that\u2026we were too far north at the time and looking at
    a character that had no descenders, (I).\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!!  But it at least was
    always 10pt :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-03 15:56:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "David, I think those observations arise from the \"blue-collar\" (as you've
    put it) advantage that Typecon has over ATypI (although I personally think we
    need both for balance). Now if we could just get SoTA to revert to more populist
    venues...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.ehi.com/travel/mexico/majorcit/tijuana-hotels-grand-hotel-tijuana.htm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-04 15:14:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Being a \"grass roots\" organization, SOTA relies on locals for a significant
    part of its attendance. Conferences are organized by a local committee, and these
    are also people who have been involved as volunteers at previous TypeCons. So
    there is a combination of conference experience, committment, and local knowledge
    and connections going into every TypeCon.\r\n\r\nA number of South Americans have
    attended TypeCon, and one board member, Claudio Rocha, is from Brazil. So Sao
    Paulo would be a more likely venue than Tijuana. "
  created: '2006-09-04 16:24:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "We've had this exact same discussion before, but the Typophile search isn't
    working properly, and I'm too lazy/bored to rehash all the reasons why I think
    Tijuana is a much better option than anywhere in South America (at least until
    SoTA really gets its feet internationally wet).\r\n\r\nGet in touch with Jorge
    de Buen, and you'll have the best Typecon to date.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-04 16:45:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess Tijuana is an easy drive from LA?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-04 17:13:43'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">at least until SoTA really gets its feet internationally wet\r\n\r\nOnce
    again Canada gets lumped in with the US - no wonder they all hate us up there
    :-) "
  created: '2006-09-04 17:15:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "With all the type folks in Canada, it seems like a good choice.  I don't
    know which city would be best though.  Toronto?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-04 17:18:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Yep, we did Toronto in 2002. Hence the smiley.  \r\n\r\nCheers, Si "
  created: '2006-09-04 17:30:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chris: Yeah, that explains how I drove to Thessaloniki, twice.\r\n\r\nSimon:
    Please note the \"really\". It's a magically useful qualifier. Really.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-04 17:36:04'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: Seattle is the farest point of US we have from South America :) (between 17
    and 26 hours from Buenos Aires). Anyway I think I ll go next year.... but San
    Diego or Tijuana sounds more funny and less rainy for me :P
  created: '2006-09-04 17:42:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Tijuana sounds more funny and less rainy for me :P\r\n\r\nSeattle is 'funny'
    but in a different way. As for the rain that's a myth designed to keep the Californians
    away (sorry Hrant) - sure it's gray and damp between October 1 and June 1st, but
    NYC gets more annual rainfall. First week of August is a safe bet, and my guess
    is that the weather will be more comfortable in Seattle than Tijuana at that time
    of the year. Not that the weather really matters - my forecast \"72 and fluorescent\"
    inside the hotel.       \r\n"
  created: '2006-09-04 18:55:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>72 and fluorescent</em>\r\n\r\nLOL!"
  created: '2006-09-04 18:58:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I think Tijuana is a much better option than anywhere in South America</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    may be, but without anyone from Tijuana getting involved with TypeCon first, it's
    unlikely to happen. Si waited for so long for TypeCon to come to Seattle, he went
    over to the other side."
  created: '2006-09-04 19:05:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"that explains how I drove to Thessaloniki, twice.\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS:
    Wish I could drive to Thessaloniki once!"
  created: '2006-09-04 22:29:44'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I understand TJ is getting some culcha, once you get out of the immediate
    vicinity of the border. Might be a very fun location.... \r\n\r\nI'm biased; I'm
    a Mexican citizen."
  created: '2006-09-04 23:09:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hombre, TJ's culture is muy pero muy rico, and it's the Typecon kind.\r\n\r\n>
    without anyone from Tijuana getting involved with TypeCon first\r\n\r\nWhat is
    this, Israel versus Hzballa? Judging from what I've seen (like the Q&A after my
    talk at a university there about what it takes to design type) the merest flicker
    of attention on SoTA's part would trigger a deluge of interest. Giving that a
    shot certainly wouldn't take much energy; in fact with Jorge in the picture all
    it might take is one email. BTW, MS and Adobe aren't exactly \"grass roots\"...\r\n\r\nAnd
    Simon: The weather is here, wish you were beautiful.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-04 23:56:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Mira, just ask Armin Vit.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-05 00:04:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">And Simon: The weather is here, wish you were beautiful.\r\n\r\nWhere there's
    smog there's ire ;-)"
  created: '2006-09-05 00:16:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>MS and Adobe aren\u2019t exactly \u201Cgrass roots\u201D\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    what we keep telling them, and hopefully next year MS will rise above the \"24pt\"
    sponsorship level."
  created: '2006-09-05 04:36:29'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Ha! \r\n\r\nBut we should get back to answering Josh's question I think.
    \r\n\r\nI'll have a slash - \r\n\r\nBest workshop - for me Adam Twardoch and Thomas
    Phinney talking about using MM tech with fontlab.\r\n\r\nBest pressentation -
    That's hard because I liked nearly all of them and the vast majority were very
    strong.  But if pushed I would make it a 3 way tie between John Benson talking
    about Dwiggins, Bruno Steinert talking about Adrien Frutiger & Mike Parker talking
    about  Adrien Frutiger. \r\n\r\nBest thing I learned... probably the current state
    of font tech/management and how difficult is is inevitably going to be to be even
    mostly on top of it.\r\n\r\nMy feeling is that you are only ever going to get
    2% of what an attendee had available to them via typophile even if we all cooperate
    fully & disgourge all our fave info from TypeCon.\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-05 05:04:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'The strangest moment: In a darkened room, Bruno Steinert at the lectern,
    reading the Book of Genesis to the hushed congregation, while we gazed in awe
    upon Adrian Frutiger''s illustrations and book design for the same.'
  created: '2006-09-05 05:14:49'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: That was remarkably weird & cool.
  created: '2006-09-05 07:18:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Amen Brother Nick.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-05 12:51:41'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Hr: \"the \u201Cblue-collar\u201D (as you\u2019ve put it) advantage that
    Typecon has over ATypI\"\r\n\r\nSadly, the gap is widening as A continues to put
    it's money into professional managment, turning the content into a Sponsor-Feast
    of lessening interest to the constituents at the required price point. Or as V.P.
    Hudson put it, you \"Must be willing to work with others\" or you can't speak.
    Good for a miner's convention perhaps, but you end up with a majority of content
    from folks who are willing to be herded together intellectually, which basically
    means the food and weather has got to be good, or else. The other option seems
    to be getting on the programme commitee, allowing you to appoint yourself to as
    many sessions as you want, something I never had the \"class\" to do even when
    I was both sponsoring and organizing my little butt off. \r\n\r\nAn example of
    this content mismanagement is the Tech thingy, where one 1 hr. session would do
    for all the \"Table Editor Wars\", but instead it's 3-4 hours of developers, giving
    a demo, some of which are about \"automatic\" OT (like du-udes, how much do you
    need to know, (in person), about something that's automatic?!). This one's not
    for me, being more interested in things like CT vs. Quartz, Optical scaling for
    midgets, and the Em as a unit of thought.\r\n\r\n\"Tijuana\" ??? They don't have
    a four-star conference center there which is why I suggested Cancun. And no, I'm
    not organizing for a summer conference there, that would be stupid."
  created: '2006-09-05 15:27:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I do agree with some of your perspective on ATypI. On the other hand,\r\nTypecon
    itself has been veering towards the ATypI model in some ways...\r\n\r\nCancun?!
    Spoken like a true right coaster. Guys, just spend the extra couple of hundred,
    forego the 50s-Cuba of the 90s, and see something real (like grade-A bicultural
    graffiti) on your breaks from the oversized margaritas and guacamole nachos. Cancun
    isn't a town, it's a really big wetbar.\r\n\r\nI've stayed at the Grand Hotel
    Tijuana (which is a short drive from San Diego, so you can guess at the quality
    of the weather there) and I suspect it would work out, but I admit that's an inexpert
    evaluation (for one thing I don't know if the audio-visual technicals are in place).
    But if the technicals are there, it's El Venue (for Typecon if not for ATypI).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-05 16:04:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A parallel to Cancun tourism:\r\nhttp://www.theonion.com/content/node/28470\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-05 16:47:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">An example of this content mismanagement is the Tech thingy\r\n\r\nI think
    this is somewhat insulting to the volunteers (Tiffany, Tom, and John Hudson before)
    who've put in many hours pulling these forums together. I've been involved in
    three or four of these, and I don't recall seeing a single submission from you
    or anyone associated with the Font Bureau. "
  created: '2006-09-05 17:03:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>Or as V.P. Hudson put it, you \u201CMust be willing to work with
    others\u201D or you can\u2019t speak.</em>\r\n\r\nIt is a good thing that people
    can go and read <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/27776\">what I actually wrote</a>,
    David. I never said that willingness to work with others was a prerequisite to
    speaking at an ATypI conference, I said it was a prerequisite to getting involved
    with organising an ATypI conference. It is simply a practical observation: they
    are collaborative efforts."
  created: '2006-09-05 20:00:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>Sadly, the gap is widening...</em>\r\n\r\nHrant: <em>On the other
    hand, Typecon itself has been veering towards the ATypI model in some ways\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nSo
    is it widening or narrowing? Reports I hear from attendees of both conferences
    suggest that it is indeed narrowing, and that doesn't surprise me at all. I suspect
    TypeCon will become more and more like ATypI simply because the grassroots enthusiasm
    and verve that pulls off something like the first TypeCon or pulls off TypeLab
    or pulls off the first Font Technology Forum (Leipzig) is not sustainable. Things
    become institutionalised in order to continue to happen, and there is a constant
    tension between what is gained in terms of sustainability and what is lost in
    terms of experimentation and immediacy. Some of us do our time in the institution,
    trying to balance these things, and some of us (Jean Fran\xE7ois, myself, many
    other ATypI board members) do so despite grave doubts about even the wisdom of
    perpetuating the institution, but in an effort to see if it can be improved. Other
    people just complain a lot, which can be helpful too.\r\n\r\nAfter the Font Technology
    Forum in Leipzig, David, you came up to me and told me that it was the only worthwhile
    part of the conference. Now you are telling me that what that evolved into --
    the TypeTech Forum -- is 'content mismanagement'. Also in Leipzig, Erik Spiekermann
    suggested to me that the best type conference would consist of about 50-100 people
    with a few projectors and screens in a warehouse. No caterers. No 'official conference
    hotel'. No association. No conference planners. No programme committee. Just the
    right people getting together to talk about the best ways of doing things and
    to share information.\r\n\r\nI basically agree with that. And I think it would
    happen once, and if one tried to do it more than once it would start to assume
    an institutional structure and would follow TypeCon into ATypIdom. I remember
    when Petr van Blokland was elected to the ATypI board, and he expressed discomfort:
    that he had gone from being a revolutionary to being part of the establishment.
    I told him then that it is the purpose of every revolution to create a new establishment.\r\n\r\nMy
    view of ATypI is this: it is going to need to change and to become something new,
    but in order to do that it needs to be structurally changed. The ways in which
    decisions are made need to be freed up and made more democratic and transparent.
    Fifty-years worth of ossification and outdated statutes need to be broken down,
    and <em>then</em> members have to want to take control of the association. And
    all the while, the thing has to be kept afloat financially. I think its great
    that people are talking about what they like and dislike about ATypI and what
    they think it should do differently, because that conversation needs to happen.
    But after two years on the board, my ambitions are pretty much limited to structural
    change, to allow others to take control of the future of the association.\r\n\r\nWhen
    my term on the board ends, and Erik's term ends, perhaps we'll go find that warehouse."
  created: '2006-09-05 20:36:34'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Also in Leipzig, Erik Spiekermann suggested to me that the best type conference
    would consist of about 50-100 people with a few projectors and screens in a warehouse.
    \r\n\r\nI love it! TypeScrum! \r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2006-09-05 21:45:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>TypeScrum!</em>\r\n\r\nAdd to my list of no caterers, no official hotel,
    no etc. <em>no trademarkable name.</em>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-05 22:14:29'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: The Type Conference With No Name
  created: '2006-09-05 22:21:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If there are no caterers, then it can't be scrumptious.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-05 22:25:03'
- author:
    name: scruggsdesign
    picture: 128176
  body: "Thanks for your comments everyone. It's obvious there is no experience like
    being there. I will have to make next year my 1st TypeCon experience.\r\n\r\nJosh"
  created: '2006-09-05 22:44:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, are you implying that David and I agree as a rule?!\r\nAnyway, the
    gap between Typecon and ATypI could be\r\ngetting narrower or wider, but they
    could still be both\r\ngoing in the wrong or right direction!\r\n\r\n> Things
    become institutionalised in order to continue to happen\r\n&\r\n> it is the purpose
    of every revolution to create a new establishment.\r\n\r\nThese are classic Western
    fallacies.\r\n\r\n> Fifty-years worth of ossification and outdated statutes need
    to\r\n> be broken down, and then members have to want to take control\r\n\r\nAaah,
    how nice it would be to hear you admit that about the alphabet,\r\nchirography,
    etc... Not that I think Control is the point of life though.\r\nBut certain people
    are only capable of being critical of things they\r\ndon't already own. It's OK
    - the world needs all kinds.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-06 00:36:28'
- author:
    name: Jonathan Clede
    picture: 110376
  body: I would definitely go to Typecon in Tijuana. It's a hell of a lot more convenient
    than Boston or Seattle, though I realize that this is not true for many of us.
    And there's so much wonderful lettering there that is so genuine and alive!
  created: '2006-09-06 00:45:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>If there are no caterers, then it can\u2019t be scrumptious.</em>\r\n\r\nSure
    it can, it just needs to be located close to some good restaurants."
  created: '2006-09-06 01:48:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>These are classic Western fallacies.</em>\r\n\r\nSo what is the classic
    Eastern counter example? The Cultural Revolution?"
  created: '2006-09-06 01:50:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Large warehouses close to good restaurants?\r\nA type conference in downtown
    LA, yay!\r\n\r\n> counter example?\r\n\r\nThere you go again.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-06 02:14:05'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">If there are no caterers, then it can\u2019t be scrumptious.\r\n>Sure it
    can, it just needs to be located close to some good restaurants.\r\n\r\nI'm sure
    we can convince the local roach-coach/catering-trucks to stop by - however they
    may up their prices when they see the line of expensive Beemers and Audis parked
    up outside the warehouse. \r\n\r\nAs an alternative to the warehouse space I was
    thinking we could use a largish bar/nightclub during the day - they could provide
    some nice pub-grub and other \"refreshments\", and such a location might help
    convince the typorati to hang around into the evening. I'll suggest this to Tamye. "
  created: '2006-09-06 02:25:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>John, are you implying that David and I agree as a rule?!</em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    I was just drawing attention to the fact that we had two contradictory statements
    about the comparative relationship of TypeCon and ATypI. Both of them are interesting
    statements, but they can't both be true or, rather, in order to both be true they
    need to be talking about different aspects of the two conferences.\r\n\r\nBut
    I really think David just wants to give ATypI a hard time -- perhaps for good
    reasons --, and I find it bemusing that his biggest target is the TypeTech Forum
    which a) is not part of the ATypI conference, b) is not planned by the conference
    programme committee, and c) is run by three people whom you can expect to be very
    involved in next year's TypeCon conference in Seattle."
  created: '2006-09-06 04:11:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am not sure how a venue is picked for either AtypI or TypeCon but I imagine
    it starts with some grassroots interest at the locations who want it to be there.
    \ This means a core of zealots who are willing to bust their butts to make it
    happen and have the contacts and wherewithall to do it. This hardcore group are
    of course volunteers and willing to sweat blood for free to make the event a success.
    I assume there might be competing groups from various cities and countries pushing
    for their own region. \r\nSo, I imagine if their were such a hardcore group of
    volunteers in either Tijuans or Cancun, or Brisbaine or Tuscaloosa, that they
    could make their case and do the work.\r\nI, for one, am very grateful to the
    folks who have put forth the tremendous effort it took to make the 2 Typecons
    happen which I have been to.  I applaud their effort and wish them a speedy transfusion
    to replenish their blood count!  I am sure the same is true for AtypI events,
    TDC events--some of them are the same core people who continually give of themselves.
    \ Certainly everyone on the SoTA board needs a solid round of applause from the
    rest of us who have been able to reap the harvest of their labor.\r\n\r\nBravo
    to all those who make things happen!\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/clapping_6192.JPG]"
  created: '2006-09-06 13:48:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Atypi Is headed, from 500-700 people to 200-400. TypeCon is headed from 50-100
    to who knows, 400-500 is likely to be a minimum.\r\n\r\n\"the TypeTech Forum which
    a) is not part of the ATypI conference,\" lol. This...is a distinction that very
    very few people would recognize, anywhere. Anyone here who can tell from the web
    site that the Tech forum is a separate entity? raise your mice.\r\n\r\n\"c) is
    run by three people whom you can expect to be very involved in next year\u2019s
    TypeCon conference in Seattle.\"\r\n\r\nAnd? \r\n\r\n\"After the Font Technology
    Forum in Leipzig, David, you came up to me and told me that it was the only worthwhile
    part of the conference\"\r\n\r\nYou have to pay attention John, a.) I got in for
    free, b.) just about the same content was offered then as now...but it was fresh.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-06 15:31:54'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "TypeTech is separate insofar as it is a mini-conference leading up to ATypI
    and is, similar to the workshops at TypeCon, an additional fee for those who wish
    to attend.\r\n\r\nThis is my first year being involved with TypeTech as an organizer,
    so I cannot speak for past years. I hope Thomas or Simon respond as they understand
    the topics to a level that I do not. \r\n\r\nThat said, this year the hope was
    to have content for intermediate to advanced people who wish to spend 2 days delving
    deeper into the various topics. Given that the talks are not longer than 1.5 hours
    (except those that also have tuturials) and not shorter than .5 hours, they are
    to some extent introductory. But, that is not to say they are introductory for
    someone who has never designed type. \r\n"
  created: '2006-09-06 16:49:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> they could make their case\r\n\r\nThat's one way, and it does work. But
    a less aloof, more proactive and in the end more conducive to growth (not least
    culturally) alternative is to keep an eye out for locations that have <cite>potential</cite>
    and at the very least plant a seed. That way you don't just react, you create.\r\n\r\nDavid,
    the paradox though is that ATypI <cite>membership</cite> seems to have gone up
    quite a lot (and I'm assuming not all of that is due to the highly gracious \"non-affluent\"
    membership scheme that Typophile can be credited with triggering).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-06 17:51:23'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "I think TJ is a fantastic idea - Zona Rosa is one of the most pleasant walking/shopping/eating
    districts on all of the west coast of North America, and cheap too! We could have
    folks in 2 or 3 3-star hotels for $70 a night, easily. And San Diego has become
    a cheaper airport to fly into in the last year as more and more southwest and
    united flights have been using it.\r\n\r\nHowever, I'm holding out for Havana.
    Haven't seen my uncle Fidel for years.\r\n\r\nas for ATypI, I haven't gone in
    years. Went one year as a student and had a good time, but of course no student
    can really afford it (at least, not students without wealthy benefactors); I was
    able to work in exchange for my registration. I attempted to do the same several
    years after that, but once its management became a 'for-profit' endeavor, nobody
    seemed interested in accomodating student volunteers (or other low-income folks).
    This elitism and exclusivity really turned me off, so it was refreshing when I
    found a group like SoTA that with a few small caveats avoids those problems and
    embraces everyone in the discipline.\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt : http://www.hewnandhammered.com
    : rnrmf!"
  created: '2006-09-07 18:42:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, a room at the Grand Hotel should end up being less than US$100 (like
    they have a weekend special right now for $90, and that includes a  quite impressive
    buffet breakfast for two). More money left over for the auction! And the San Diego
    connection might work out superbly, with a rented \"typoholic bus\" (remember
    the ill-fated Bouma Bus? :-) across the border a stratagem to consider.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-07 19:24:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Joshua, ATypI is a non-profit association and the organisation usually just
    scrapes by financially each year. It's management is not a 'for profit'endeavour,
    but the association does employ professional conference organisation and administration
    because of bad experiences relying solely on well-meaning amateurs and volunteers.
    ATypI has done so since 1997; what year did you attend, and what do you think
    was different in subsequent years? Regarding accomodating student volunteers,
    we have large numbers of them at every conference (there is a roster of 30 of
    them for Lisbon), but they are local students from design schools who are partnering
    with the association. Obviously, giving such opportunities for involvement and
    attendance to local students is one of the things ATypI is able to offer to the
    local design and education community.
  created: '2006-09-08 01:51:13'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Joshua, \r\n\r\nthe early-bird ATypI Lisbon conference registration for students
    and for citizens from low-income countries is US$175, and I don't remember it
    being higher than US$250 in the past. While the TypeCon registration fee is lower,
    the last TypeCon events have taken places in cities where food and accomodation
    is not necessarily cheap (esp. when compared to Leipzig, Prague or Lisbon). I
    believe the overall cost is comparable. \r\n\r\nOf course, it's usually more expensive
    to fly overseas, so it's not surprising that the Europeans tend to visit the conferences
    that happen in Europe (which usually is ATypI) and the Americans tend to visit
    the conferences that happen in the U.S. (which usually is TypeCon). But the prices
    for overseas flights aren't what they used to be, they are cheaper than they were
    5 years ago, I think. \r\n\r\nIn fact, it is more difficult for a foreigner to
    attend TypeCon than any ATypI conference (for example, the U.S. requires visas
    from citizebs of more countries than the E.U. does, if ATypI happens to be in
    the E.U.) -- remember that in 2004, I could not attend TypeCon San Francisco since
    I was not given a U.S. visa on time? \r\n\r\nI've been to all ATypI conferences
    since 1998, except the 1999 Boston event. Until I started working for Fontlab
    Ltd. in 2004, I always financed the trips all by myself, and I did live on a \"student
    budget\" for quite a long time. As for the typographic \"folk\" who attends the
    conference, I never felt much difference in \"elitism and exclusivity\" between
    ATypI and TypeCon -- I actually felt they kind of are the same. However, at ATypI,
    it is actually true that people speak in more languages (English is still predominant
    but not to the same extent), and sometimes it is a bit difficult to communicate
    with everybody. \r\n\r\nThe profiles of the conferences certainly are different.
    I believe the ATypI conferences have a more international flair, simply because
    each year, they happen in a country where a different language is spoken. Even
    just visiting cities like Lyon, Leipzig, Copenhagen, Rome, Vancouver, Prague,
    Helsinki or Lisbon, noticing the different typographic styles in signage, observing
    how the alphabet works in different languages -- this is all absolutely fascinating,
    and always has, for a typophile like myself. Also, you always have the unique
    chance to see some local speakers and attendees who never actually go to any foreign
    conferences whatsoever. \r\n\r\nI've been a member of the ATypI Board since 2000,
    and I simply cannot agree with the remarks about \"for-profit management\". Both
    SoTA and ATypI have paid postitions of an Executive Director, who has also been
    organizing the conference, while all the other positions are unpaid and based
    entirely on volunteers' work. In fact, after having some conversations with SoTA
    Board members this year, I found out that both the structure and the actual problems
    that we're facing, are really quite the same. \r\n\r\nI'm trying to attend both
    ATypI and TypeCon because I would feel that missing one would always deprive me
    of something interesting. Luckily, the conferences are quite complementary, and
    I don't think there is much redundancy. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-09-08 09:46:54'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Siiiiii \"...this is [] insulting to the volunteers who\u2019ve put in many
    hours... I don\u2019t recall seeing a single submission from you or anyone associated
    with the Font Bureau.\"\r\n\r\nInsult? No, an insult is when a company tells A
    Continent that it's new OS will be delayed for \"Regulatory Reasons\" ;) A criticism
    is something else: It says, in our case, there should have been, e.g. detailed
    CT sessions at this \"forum\" 5, 4, 2, 3 and 1 year(s) ago, not to mention zero
    years ago, and into the future..along with 3, 4 or 5 other critically important
    topics besides CT, \"web font specs 07\" e.g.,  should have been replacing some
    of the....other stuff that is, if not, repeating, just plain dumb content. That
    is mismanagement. \r\n\r\nP.S. You can't recall seeing a single submission from
    me or anyone associated with the Font Bureau because...well, what do they look
    or sound like? so I can check the records.\r\n\r\nAnd... the link between the
    Continental issue and this, is Brad Smith, who recently complained that all these
    challenges in Europe \"should have been done before, not after the product is
    released.\" Well, if \"I\u2019ve been involved in three or four of these\" is
    as true a Simon says, then you should talk to yourself, and see if you can \"open
    up\" the discussion before it's too late, and someone rare, like me, who can partially
    rewrite their job discription, has to do so.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2006-09-08 15:11:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">there should have been, e.g. detailed CT sessions at this \u201Cforum\u201D
    \r\n\r\nhttp://www.atypi.org/30_past_conferences/09_Vancouver/30_other_events/index_html\r\n\r\nDay
    1 - Wednesday September 24\r\n<p>Morning</p>\r\n<p> Introduction (MS Typography
    &amp; Adobe)</p>\r\n<p> Strategies in defining glyph and OT feature repertoires
    (MS Typography &amp; Adobe)</p>\r\n<p> Making clean outlines (MS Typography &amp;
    Adobe)</p>\r\n<p>Afternoon</p>\r\n<p> Making OpenType tables using VOLT (MS Typography)</p>\r\n<p>
    Making OpenType fonts using the FDK/FontLab (Adobe)</p>\r\n\r\n<p>Day 2 - Thursday
    September 25</p>\r\n<p>Morning</p>\r\n<p> Testing and proofing OpenType fonts
    (MS Typography &amp; Adobe)</p>\r\n<p>Afternoon</p>\r\n<p> <strong>Hinting theory
    (MS ClearType)\r\n<p> Hinting strategies (MS ClearType) \r\n<p> Hinting and ClearType
    (MS ClearType) </STRONG></p>\r\n\r\nWhen I ran the forum last year I invited the
    CT team to participate, but didn't get any takers. I'm hopeful that we'll get
    some CT related stuff going at TC2007. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-08 15:23:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">P.S. You can\u2019t recall seeing a single submission from me or anyone
    associated with the Font Bureau because\u2026well, what do they look or sound
    like? so I can check the records.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.google.com/search?hl=en&q=atypi+tech+forum+call+for+papers&btnG=Google+Search
    \r\n\r\n<CITE>\r\nCall for Presentations for the TypeTech Forum at ATypI Lisbon
    2006 \r\nAssociation Typographique Internationale (ATypI) Annual Conference Lisbon,
    Portugal, 27 Sep - 1 Oct, 2006 \r\n\r\nMarch 21, 2006 - Announcing the opening
    of the Call for Presentation Proposals for the TypeTech Forum of the ATypI Lisbon
    2006 conference. \r\n\r\nThe Board of Directors of ATypI is proud to note that
    the ATypI Conference is sponsored by many of the leading companies in the graphic
    arts and computing. Early sponsorship for Lisbon comes from the Microsoft Corporation.
    \r\n\r\nThe ATypI 2006 TypeTech Forum committee invites submissions of abstracts
    for presentations on any theme related to technology in type design and typesetting.
    Based on previous feedback, there will be no separate introductory section this
    year; potential presenters should assume that their audience is versed in the
    basics of type technology, such as Unicode and OpenType. \r\n\r\nAppropriate topics
    include, but are not limited to: new methods in typeface design and production;
    approaches to testing fonts; issues and solutions for font development; and new
    technologies in typesetting. Proposals are welcome for practical demonstrations
    as well as lectures and panel sessions. Preference will be given to talks which
    have not been done before at TypeTech Forum or ATypI. \r\n\r\nAbstracts should
    include the title of the proposed presentation, the requested time length, the
    presenter's name(s) and a short biographical note (50-100 words), and a short
    summary (100-200 words) suitable for publication in the conference programme.
    (Note: Biographies and presentation descriptions may be edited for length and/or
    clarity.) Presentation lengths in the TypeTech Forum are variable, but generally
    run between 15 and 60 minutes, including questions. Actual time allotted may sometimes
    be less than requested. Preference may be given to submissions received earlier,
    but the actual deadline is May 31, 2006. \r\n\r\nIt is expected that the speakers
    will provide the text of their presentations, and images if possible, for inclusion
    in a publication or on the web site after the conference. \r\n\r\nPresentation
    proposals should be sent to the programme planning committee by e-mail to mailto:typetech@atypi.org.
    \r\n\r\nPlease note that all other correspondence should be addressed to the ATypI
    Secretariat and Conference Office (see below). \r\n\r\n\r\nLisbon TypeTech Forum
    Committee \r\n\r\nThomas Phinney, Adobe Systems; Simon Daniels, Microsoft Corporation;
    Tiffany Wardle \r\n\r\nATypI Executive Director: Shelley Gruendler \r\n\r\nAbout
    ATypI: Association Typographique Internationale is the only worldwide organisation
    dedicated to type and typography. Founded in 1957, ATypI provides the structure
    for communication, information and action within the international type community.
    ATypI annual conferences are attended by delegates from more than 40 countries.
    Recent Conferences have been held in Helsinki (2005), Prague (2004), Vancouver
    (2003), Rome (2002) and Copenhagen (2001). The ATypI Board of Directors: Jean-Fran\xE7ois
    Porchez, President; John Hudson, Vice President; Mark Barratt, John D. Berry,
    Henrik Birkvig, Ted Harrison, Gerry Leonidas, Thomas Phinney, Fiona Ross, Erik
    Spiekermann, Sumner Stone, Adam Twardoch, Pavel Zelenka, and Maxim Zhukov. </CITE>\r\n\r\nAnd
    here's a sample proposal (sure Ted won't mind me posting it)\r\n\r\n<CITE>-----Original
    Message-----\r\nFrom: Adam Twardoch [mailto:adam@twardoch.com] \r\nSent: Monday,
    March 27, 2006 6:40 PM\r\nTo: typetech@atypi.org\r\nSubject: Submissions for ATypI
    TypeTech 2006\r\n\r\n3. Ted Harrison\r\n\"The Ubiquitous EULA. Practical application
    of the Electronic EULA Abstract.\"\r\n30 minutes\r\n\r\nTed will demonstrate the
    use of the EEULAA in protecting your fonts from casual \r\npiracy and in improving
    your font sales. The EEULAA is now being incorporated \r\ninto Fontlab tools and
    will be available to all font foundries by the time the \r\nnext generation of
    tools appears. With a EEULAA in your fonts you can track \r\nlicenses, solicit
    font upgrade sales, and make your customers easily and \r\npainlessly aware of
    their rights and obligations under the EULA.\r\n</CITE>\r\n\r\nSo easy a caveman
    could do it ;-)\r\n\r\nIt seems as if the content of the forum isn't of interest
    to you, I'd suggest a strategy I took for Helsinki. First volunteer to organize
    the whole thing yourself, you could even have some of your peeps do the leg work.
    \r\n\r\nHere's what I did. I started by going to the people I wanted to hear speak,
    about subjects I was interested in, that's why we had Brian Kraimer talking about
    font certification, Michael Jansson talking about font embedding, Dave Opstad
    demoing some tools, Carl talking about Segoe Script, Tiffany talking about the
    EULA. I also posted a call for submissions on several lists and was able to find
    spaces for everyone who submited an idea - Victor Gaultney for example. \r\n\r\nSadly
    a few people I asked couldn't make it - Joe Clark, the ClearType team and Peter
    Lofting (Apple sent an engineer, who actively participated and answered questions
    but didn't give a talk). But I have to say, in my opinion, it was the best tech-forum
    ever. ;-)  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-08 18:58:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"So easy a caveman could do it ;-)\"\r\nWhat if cave woman loses the email?"
  created: '2006-09-09 12:38:01'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Besides the active call for submissions, IIRC, I later posted to the ATypI
    list specifically asking for suggestions of topics people wanted to go see at
    TypeTech.\r\n\r\nDave, rather than waiting until the schedule is announced, why
    not submit suggestions about what you want to see, before the deadline? Heck,
    even shortly after the deadline. But not two weeks before the conference!  :)\r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I'd love to see a talk on ClearType vs Quartz (possibly vs CoolType as well).
    However, it would be a matter of finding somebody to do such a talk. Any volunteers
    for next year?\r\n\r\nI'll comment that my goals for this year's TypeTech content
    were: (1) have as much new material as possible; (2) assume that people have some
    technical type background and focus on intermediate to advanced topics; (3) focus
    on the audience being people making fonts. So there's no more \"intro to Unicode\"
    or \"intro to OpenType layout\" talks in the main track of TypeTech this year.
    We'll do a survey of attendees again this year (as last year), and see how this
    goes over with them.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-09-10 03:43:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "SII \"But I have to say, in my opinion, it was the best tech-forum ever.
    ;-)\"\r\nAs W.C. said, \"You should get out more often.\"\r\n\r\nTF \"But not
    two weeks before the conference! :)\"\r\nWe aren't two weeks out even now, are
    we? July 27th was the first I became aware of, and commented towards any of this.
    Count much?\r\n\r\n\"ClearType vs Quartz\" don't know...Screen fonts is the issue,
    Thomas, does anyone in this audience think Q vs CT? Ever? If anything they might
    think about CT & Q... But that wouldn't occur to you 'cause you're too busy trying
    to figure out how to slide CoolType in there, which is best kept hidden permanently,
    Thank you.\r\n\"The Ubiquitous EULA\" it's free, it's documentable and ubiquitous,
    so what do lawyers from the various IP zones think? We'll find out, not.\r\n\"The
    \u201Cboldness\u201D information in an MM font is used to change the size of glyphs\"
    This is New? Are you friggin asleep?\r\n\"What's next?\" \"A presentation on something
    automatic?\" \"O good, maybe, if we're really lucky, it'll crash onstage.\"\r\n\r\nFellas,
    \ I give you yourselves, and content that mirrors your limited understanding of
    the critical issues facing the purported audience, one that is perhaps not even
    you, and I'd hope you could be gracious and classy enough to see so, (though this
    my third year of commenting \"Too late\" lol, I'm trying at least). I don't think
    people want this stuff, I certainly don't think you'll see me ever, on either
    end, your way, unless, with all due respect, you quit and never do it again.:)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-12 17:24:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>focus on the audience being people making fonts. </em>\r\n\r\nThat would
    be me, I guess, but the last time I went to a type workshop (except once when
    I was a presenter) I quite literally ended up in hospital, after a muscle in my
    leg started twitching uncontrollably. I took that as a sign.\r\n\r\nIMO you have
    your military-industrial complex, your legislative-administrative complex, and
    then your typographic-software complex. The purpose of these organizations is
    to make life as complex, bureaucratic and technological as possible, thereby ensuring
    lots of work for bureaucrats and technicians. Not really the indie foundry profile.\r\n\r\nSure,
    indie folk can handle the paperwork and wouldn't be in the biz if not technically
    inclined. We need to keep up to date, so we attend these events and some of us
    might even enjoy them occasionally, but it's a necessary evil and <em>not</em>
    the reason we decided to become the \"people making fonts\"."
  created: '2006-09-12 21:10:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Technique is an integral part of type design - manifest everywhere in the
    craft, even in something as seemingly simple as setting a sidebearing. If you
    don't enjoy technique, that doesn't mean you shouldn't be making fonts, or that
    you can't make good fonts*, but it does put you at a disadvantage, and that can't
    be blamed on anybody (even if certain people don't in fact have the best intentions
    for you otherwise). Personally, if there weren't so much technique in type design,
    if it were essentially painting pretty shapes, I would never have started doing
    it.\r\n\r\n* Although I might argue that it does prevent you from making the <cite>best</cite>
    fonts, at least in the realm of text.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-12 21:34:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">As W.C. said, \u201CYou should get out more often.\u201D\r\n\r\nI realize
    that you're a very busy man, with important things to do, but I think if you'd
    exerted 5% of the effort you've exerted in griping about the event, there might
    have been some content of interest to you. \r\n\r\nPerhaps you could have sent
    an email to the organizers, or picked up the phone and had someone submit a talk
    idea, hey maybe even put forward a talk idea yourself. \r\n\r\nBut no, it's more
    fun to gripe and moan, hint at conspiracy theories and conveniently ignore the
    fact that the content you\u2019re interested in was presented four years ago. "
  created: '2006-09-13 18:55:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Dear Simon, \r\n>Perhaps you could have sent an email to the organizers\r\nI
    did, several times, beginning in feb. Can you read CT?\r\n\r\n> the content you\u2019re
    interested in was presented four years ago.\r\nCorrect. It was presented at the
    Poynter Institute for Media Studies by your company. I called it a rabbit hole
    out of which the emperor's new fonts had emerged, and I did so to the developer's
    face at the time. It seemed to have no effect. \r\n\r\nMy response has been to
    follow that content here and other places, and debunk it, as best an individual
    can. As I hope you've read on the atypi list, ( Re: [ATypI] ClearType Hinting
    ) the content I was interested in is a refutation of the content your company,
    Mr. Hudson, and others involved in ATypI, have been presenting since 2000 \u2014
    Namely, that the \"intersection\" of optimized screen fonts for any great stretch
    of the Unicode Marathon, in a multi-biplane environment or 3.... is in a different
    direction and location from the intersection your company, Mr. Hudson, and others
    are just beginning to understand the limitations of...now.\r\n\r\n>hint at conspiracy
    theories \r\nI have never said any such thing consciously existed \u2014 but if
    you insist, the conspiracy to make the content understood was made by me at some
    great risk. The conspiracy to rise above the humdrum of normal typographic content,
    normal content development \"rules\", not to mention schedules, and other nonsense
    objections \u2014 should have been simple. That my \"intersection\", (which is
    really an endless field relative to the MS CT Collection's rabbit hole), requiring
    Gazzilla-bytes of skilled letter drawing and contextual substitution hounding,
    was about to intersect with a conference of letter drawers and substitution hounds,
    was a coincidence I tried to take advantage of since February. \r\n\r\nAre you
    with me so far? :)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2006-09-28 13:45:54'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I did, several times, beginning in feb. \r\n\r\nNo you didn't - no mail
    came from you to the typetech alias. If you sent mail to JFP and John Hudson,
    they neglected to pass it on - perhaps they couldn't follow what you were saying.
    \r\n\r\n> the content you\u2019re interested in was presented four years ago.\r\n>Correct.
    It was presented at the Poynter Institute for Media Studies by your company.\r\n\r\nEr,
    no. I was talking about the afternoon of sessions on ClearType hinting at ATypI
    Vancouver.\r\n\r\n>requiring Gazzilla-bytes of skilled letter drawing and contextual
    substitution hounding\r\n\r\nso your entire problem is that making fonts is hard
    and somehow by spending a lot of money and having a bunch of rocket scientist
    hinters Microsoft is cheating? You can say that on your blog, you don't need a
    afternoon of talks on the subject.\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-28 15:08:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Ahhhh. Vancouver. The beginning of the big lie. \r\n\r\n\"so your that making
    fonts is hard and spending a lot of money and having a bunch of rocket scientist
    hinters Microsoft is cheating?\"\r\n\r\n:) Yes and no. Making fonts is harder
    than your company has tried, and hinting is dead, though hints are not. Rocket
    Scientists...no. Type Scientists, neither. You missed it, so I think you deserve
    a promotion, maybe even a presidential medal of honor. \r\n\r\n\"You can say that
    on your blog, you don\u2019t need a afternoon of talks on the subject.\"\r\nOh,
    I don't think so, my blog is for clients. There is only one group who would need
    an entire afternoon of talks to get this, and that is your own.Type designers,
    and users, understand it right away, (or in less than 35 minutes). Ask Greg, he
    can both read and understand.\r\n\r\nIf your team was about to run into a bear
    mauling, you'd feel bad if I didn't tell you in advance, wouldn't you? ;)"
  created: '2006-10-02 13:23:42'
date: '2006-09-01 17:58:35'
node_type: forum
title: What happened at Type Con 2006?

---
