---
author:
  name: Mister M
body: "In a world where titles are freely given to others and, in most part, to ourselves.
  I thought it necessary to clarify a few thing as far as titles in typography are
  concerned. Now I'm starting to market myself as a [[graphic designer]] who emphasizes
  in typography. But I have not gone as far as calling myself a [[typographer]] for
  2 reasons; 1) don't really know the exact definition of a typographer and 2) Mathew
  Carter I consider a typographer and I'm nowhere near his level. But, isn't a typographer
  someone who practices good typography in all sense not just type design? I don't
  consider myself a [[type designer]], I've never designed a typeface. But I have,
  however, done custom lettering. So what does that make me? A [[lettering artist]]?
  I only ask because I'm designing a self-promotion mailer and I want to be clear
  on the meaning of the services I offer. Plus I'm hoping this topic might help clarify
  things a bit. I grow weary of meeting those who call themselves typographers or
  type designers just because they attended one type course in college.\r\nWhat are
  your thoughts?\r\n\r\nIvan\r\n\r\n "
comments:
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Deeds not Words?!\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-04 21:02:54'
- author:
    name: Mister M
  body: Huh?
  created: '2006-09-04 21:04:43'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Typographer: User of type, preferably well-trained. Many excellent typographers
    never design any typefaces. A graphic designer can also be a typographer, but
    many graphic designers have no training, interest or instinct for typography,
    and so should not call themselves typographers. \r\n\r\nType Designer: Designer
    of typefaces, preferably with some typographic training. Sadly, many type designers
    don't use type."
  created: '2006-09-04 23:15:28'
- author:
    name: Mister M
  body: Hmmmm, clear and well said. Thank you very much.
  created: '2006-09-05 00:28:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I recently received a copy of a small pamphlet from Robert Bringhurst entitled
    <em>The typographic mind,</em> published by Gaspereau Press as one of their occasional
    series 'The Devil's Whim'. It is a good little essay, with something to say about
    the distinction between graphic designer and typographer, or, at least, something
    useful to say about how a distinction could be made.\r\n\r\nIn purely practical
    terms, a typographer is someone who uses type, and this may involve using type
    in the context of graphic design and, as endlessly and tediously demonstrated
    in so-called typography annuals, it can involve using type as a graphic element,
    i.e. type as something other than a conveyance for text.\r\n\r\nBut I'm inclined
    to agree with Robert that typography, properly understood, has to be related to
    text, to language, and that this provides the distinction between typography and
    graphic design:\r\n\r\n<em>'Graphic design deals with things that only exist in
    visual form. Typography deals with things that are only incidentally visible.
    Language is spoken before it is written. It is written in order to be read, but
    it is read only in order to be tasted and digested in the mind. There is nothing
    to see at either end of the process\u2014nothing, that is, except the real, which
    is why language is worthwhile.'</em>\r\n\r\nIn 2003, I gave the title 'Between
    text and reader' to the theme of the ATypI conference held in Vancouver that year,
    and I invited Robert to be the keynote speaker. I don't know if the term typographer
    can be exclusively applied -- i.e. rejecting the generic usage of 'someone who
    uses type' -- but certainly the most interesting typographers I know are people
    who share a commitment to text and to language. They are, to use Dean Allen's
    memorable moniker, Textists."
  created: '2006-09-05 01:43:53'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Please Tick (/) or (x) opposite these statements:\r\n\r\n1 Not every Graphic
    designer is a Typographer.\r\n2 Not every Typographer is a GraphicDesigner.\r\n\r\n3
    Not every GraphicDesigner is a TypeDesigner.\r\n4 Not every TypeDesigner is a
    GraphicDesigner.\r\n\r\n5 Not every Typographer is a TypeDesigner.\r\n6 Every
    TypeDesigner was a Typographer.\r\n\r\n7 Whos is the Typophiler?!\r\nA do-more-with-less
    GraphicDesigner, typeDesigner, & Typographer?!"
  created: '2006-09-05 08:31:52'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">But, isn\u2019t a typographer someone who practices good typography in all
    sense not just type design?\r\n\r\nI think you nailed it there, type design is
    a separate but overlapping discipline, Aziz' checklist would give an information
    designer a tricky problem. Computers have blurred the distinctions so much that
    it is almost possible to tick or cross every box, for me though, being a typographer
    means being able to appreciate at least some of the nuances of type design, while
    being more conversant with graphic design (which itself covers a wide spectrum
    of disciplines). Deeds not words \u2013 ultimately the proof of one\u2019s title
    is in one\u2019s work.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-09-05 12:01:33'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "I like to use the term typographer in Carl Crossgrove's and John Hudson's
    sense. And I also feel that a good typographer knows how to make adjustments to
    fonts (Bringhurst, in chap. 10 of Elements, speaks of \"tuning\" the fonts).\r\n\r\nMy
    problem is that I'm trying to find a job as a book typographer (book designer?),
    but at least here in Finland, where editions are small, publishing houses seem
    to expect you to be an all-around graphic designer (whose primary job is cover/jacket
    design).\r\n\r\nThere was a thread on the Graphic Designer vs Typographer issue
    about a year ago (http://typophile.com/node/15197?from=50&comments_per_page=50),
    where Miss Tiffany said that \u201Csomeone, usually, cannot only be a typographer\u201D.
    But maybe I could be a typographer, book designer and typesetter? (Thanks to my
    education as a linguist, albeit primarily a phonetician, I could perhaps be a
    little bit of editor as well.) Is this still too narrow?\r\n\r\nIn other words,
    is it viable to concentrate on the design and typesetting of the book block (and
    perhaps hope to have a say on the choice of format and on the case design)\u2014to
    do everything except cover/jacket design and image scanning/manipulation/color
    correction and illustration?\r\n\r\nUnless I\u2019m considered too nosy to ask
    about this, I\u2019d be interested in knowing what combination of things you guys
    actually do--or plan to do--for a living (if it's type-related).\r\n\r\nPardon
    the long post (and my inability to do HTML)!\r\n\r\nOlli"
  created: '2006-09-05 14:13:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Once upon a time a typographer was more akin to a type setter but elevated
    to more of a quality craftsman who had very good visual sensitivity as well. The
    type setter as profession is now gone in this postscript world and the typographer
    may need some more graphic design skills to find enough work in some places (perhaps
    Finland?).  I started work as a graphic designer in the 1960s but also worked
    briefly as a type setter. I also studied caligraphy in design school. I always
    had a great interest in typography and used quite a bit of type in my graphc design
    work over the last 45 years. In the past 2 years I have begun to design typefaces.
    I don't know what my \"title\" is anymore and I don't know how much that matters.
    I think you need to get a portfolio together of your work and show it to potential
    employers.  They will hire you or not based on what they see, not on what title
    you assign to yourself.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-05 14:40:10'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: ">  Mathew Carter I consider a typographer and I\u2019m nowhere near his level\r\n\r\nYes,
    but that doesn't mean you might not be a typographer. Labels would be pointless
    if you can only use them for the experts of each field. You cannot call yourself
    a \"world class typographer\" if you are not as good as Carter, but if you have
    the basics of the art down you can call yourself a \"typographer\".\r\n\r\n(Said
    the guy who is using typewriter quote marks.)\r\n\r\nOh cool, the forum software
    fixes the quotes for me. They are only typewriter on the input screen."
  created: '2006-09-05 14:41:25'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "Thanks, Chris, for sharing your story! I do realize the need to have a portfolio,
    and I have scraped together something. (I might post some of it here later.)\r\n\r\nAnd
    Don, I definitely claim, for now, to be a typographer only in the \"basic\" sense.\r\n\r\nOlli"
  created: '2006-09-05 14:55:13'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "Chris, I should've added that I had the impression that there still were
    typesetting firms in the US and UK. For one thing, the writers (book designers)
    in Richard Hendel's On Book Design (http://www.amazon.com/On-Book-Design-Richard-Hendel/dp/0300075707/sr=8-1/qid=1157467495/ref=pd_bbs_1/002-8344409-3206412?ie=UTF8&s=books)
    speak of good and bad typesetters all the time.\r\n\r\nDoes this book, published
    in 1998, actually reflect past practice?\r\n\r\nEDIT: Not that I myself would
    want the books I design to be set by someone else.\r\n\r\nOlli"
  created: '2006-09-05 15:49:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Olli,\r\nThere are places that set type but not like it used to be.  If you
    are lucky, you can find some well skilled people who actually trained in the craft
    and know what they are doing.  If you are not lucky, you will find people who
    are not much more than typists who have learned a software program. Knowing the
    tools is only part of the job. Having done design and paste-up the old way, I
    am very good at using a knife.  If you need brain surgery though, you had better
    find someone with far more than knife skills so don't hire me to cut you open
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-05 16:18:38'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">EDIT: Not that I myself would want the books I design to be set by someone
    else\r\n\r\nThat, depending on in the company you work at is something that might
    happen, as Chris notes before the onset of computers on every desktop that is
    the way a typographer worked he would do a specification and mark-up to send to
    a typesetter and then to proof the galleys in conjunction with author and editor.
    There are fewer typesetting firms although they still exist and the trend seems,
    in the UK, to be for in-house operations and often for the designer to be typesetter,
    image creator and manipulator, client and photographer and illustrator contact
    and jack-of-all-trades although others will have a separation between concept
    and artwork. There is also a separation between cover design and interior design
    although this can also be unified, it really depends on the working practices
    of the company.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-09-05 16:19:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Changing the font size on your web browser is typography, ennit?\r\nAnd so
    is formatting the text to your <em>Typophile </em>posts.\r\n\r\nIf desktop publishing
    elided the distinction between typesetter and typographer, user-generated content
    takes things a step further.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-05 16:43:57'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "I am old-fashioned, I guess, being primarily interested in ink on paper.\r\n\r\nOlli"
  created: '2006-09-05 17:00:27'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I think you nailed it in your first sentence:  a graphic designer who emphasizes
    in typography\r\n\r\nOr at least, if that's how you want to direct your career,
    that sounds like a good description. I use type (I think) with knowledge, care,
    and attention to detail, but would not refer to myself as a typographer because
    I don't want to pigeonhole myself. \r\n\r\nTo me typography (as distinct from
    type design) implies a real emphasis or specialty on type over other elements
    of design.\r\n\r\nIf handlettering is one of your specialties you could include
    that both on your cv and as a highlight on your website/tear sheet."
  created: '2006-09-05 17:20:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>but would not refer to myself as a typographer because I don\u2019t want
    to pigeonhole myself.</em>\r\n\r\nGood point. \r\nIt should be understood that
    graphic designers are, <em>de facto,</em> typographers."
  created: '2006-09-05 18:07:54'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Or at least they should be... although it's amazing how lazy some of them
    are when it comes to typesetting (which is of course different from typography
    - or is it?)
  created: '2006-09-05 18:28:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "To me typesetting is formatting and fitting text to specifications from the
    client.  Typography is more qualitative.  It takes typesetting beyond the level
    of being a stockboy in a supermarket who sees to it that all the Peas and Quinces
    are kept stocked into their proper place. The typographer is also concerned with
    the quality of the experience of the perceiver and the effortless flow of communication--the
    art and the craft of it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-05 18:52:34'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Typesetting is more than formatting and fitting, a good typesetter will also
    take appearances into account - in terms of kerning, ragging, H&Js, etc. It's
    a form of design too.
  created: '2006-09-05 20:26:29'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "I wish I had a good or clever answer for this.\r\nFrankly, I think \"typographer\"
    has become an archaic term referring to one who is much more than just a practioner
    of typography. \r\n\r\nOnce, being a \"typographer\" was an actual profession,
    though one <em>without accreditation or degree</em>, such as architects or chefs
    are.\r\n\r\nToday, it's much the same way someone might consider themself a \"photographer\"
    as it has become somewhat <em>easier</em> to produce photographic imagery consistently
    with greater fidelity using relatively inexpensive photographic equipment. Technology
    has helped to achieve the \"craft\" aspects that otherwise would have required
    training and experience on the operators part.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-05 20:59:54'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "Interesting discussion.\r\n\r\nI think 'typographer' can be used much the
    same way that 'photographer' is used. The degree of skill any person has in either
    field is not implied, and can be qualified by modifying words. Thus, a person
    can be described as being a 'great photographer', a 'good photographer', or a
    'crappy photographer'. Therefore, I think one can rightly say, <em>\"I am a typographer,
    though not in the league of Mathew Carter\".</em> And then genuflect. :-)\r\n\r\nLike
    Chris, I also started my career in the heady days of hot wax and traditional paste-up.
    That included a goodly number of years working as a typesetter. I would say a
    'typesetter' was only responsible for keyboarding (and for operating the machine).
    Once the galleys of type were processed and could be viewed, the art of the thing
    commenced: proofreading, kerning, H&Js, etc., as Patty suggests. These operations
    were considered separate from typesetting. Until the advent of the desktop computer,
    we didn't have WYSIWIG monitors.\r\n\r\nNow, with the machine on everyone's desk,
    the lines of delineation are blurred. I can be a typesetter and a typographer
    and a designer. (I can even be a photographer!)"
  created: '2006-09-05 22:17:34'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "Sorry Norbert. I took soooooooo long typing out my missive, I missed your
    post. Didn't mean to re-state everything you said.\r\n\r\nCheers, Ken"
  created: '2006-09-05 22:20:53'
- author:
    name: Mister M
  body: "Wow, what a great response to the post.\r\n\r\n<em>would not refer to myself
    as a typographer because I don\u2019t want to pigeonhole myself</em>.\r\n\r\nMy
    thoughts exactly pattyfab. Especially because I believe no one will just hire
    a typographer in adittion to a graphic designer. But it helps me in describing
    the services I offer. For example, If I where marketing myself to a publisher
    I would describe myself as a graphic designer who emphazises in typography. But
    if I where marketing myself  to a signage manufacturer or a full service architectual
    firm, then I would belive it would be beneficial to describe myself as a typographer
    as I feel that typography and the way information is displayed is more important,
    in my opinion, than the design.\r\n\r\nOne example, I recently met this woman
    who heads up the wayfinding committee in a hospital. Her job is not to design
    the signage, but to insure consistancy is maintained. The design is being handled
    by an interior designer who , in my opinion, knows very little about typography.
    Her typesetting is too tight, signs are filled with superflous info and she seems
    to be under the impression that if people can't navigate to where they want to
    go it's because their aren't enough signs, so she adds more. I swear some of these
    hallways are starting to look like some of the streets in Beijing:) On top of
    that, she's not a very nice person. Anyway, I've been  giving feedback and I feel
    that because I have described myself as a typographer that feedback has had more
    credibility than someone who is perhaps 'moonlighting' as a signage designer."
  created: '2006-09-06 02:52:52'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Typophilers!\r\nThe more I read, the more I get confused . But for one thing,
    a designer is a designer only and only if he/she is creative?!"
  children:
  - author:
      name: fatchair
    body: The course I studied on was described as 'Typographic Design' which covered
      both typography and graphic design. Although I generally describe myself as
      a Graphic Designer (purely because most people haven't got a clue what typography
      is) I have been known to describe myself as a 'typographic designer' which covers
      both bases nicely!
    created: '2006-09-06 12:27:43'
  created: '2006-09-06 08:17:58'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> a designer is a designer only and only if he/she is creative?!\r\n\r\nI'll
    buy that remark only if you define creative. To me the best design is the simplest,
    most useful presentation of something. To many others \"creative\" means making
    something wierd, different, and often confusing."
  created: '2006-09-06 15:04:47'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Don't we use our creativity to find the best solutions?\r\n\r\nI am a graphic
    designer with a fetish for typography. I like to think I'm a typographic designer,
    but sometimes that confuses people when they know I work at an ad agency. :^P"
  created: '2006-09-06 16:53:10'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "Yes, Tiffany and Don--I think the best kind of creativity is a means of arriving
    at the simplest and must useful design. Though I also like (dare I say this?)
    beauty, which to me means mostly harmony and integrity (of course, tension is
    also needed at times).\r\n\r\nOlli"
  created: '2006-09-06 17:22:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"but sometimes that confuses people when they know I work at an ad agency.
    :^P\"\r\n\r\nYears ago, when I worked at an ad agency, I found plenty of confused
    people.  I just thought it was te nature of the beast :^P\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-06 18:01:00'
- author:
    name: dishdesigner
    picture: 111471
  body: "Interesting discussion indeed, Ken!\r\n\r\nMister M: this discussion reminds
    me of a quote from Hideo Sasaki, a well-known architect in Boston. He says \"Contribution
    is the only value.\"\r\n\r\nHybrid fields of practice now exist in nearly every
    industry and boundaries are being blurred on a daily basis (and yes, sometimes
    gratuitously). We must try to let go of rigid distinctions between professional
    domains if we want to realize the potential of truly collaborative practice, where
    knowledge is allowed to compound interest throughout a group of creatives.\r\n\r\nI'm
    an architect by training, and believe me - I understand your pain with the interior
    designer story! Architects, being licensed, have very rigid ideas about professional
    boundaries, usually tied to some level of insurability against liability. But
    I have also found that professions without the barrier to entry of licensure tend
    to be touchier about protecting their domains...they feel they have to be since
    there is no legal protection.\r\n\r\nI'm going back to get a Masters in Graphic
    Design starting this Fall because I want to work in the environmental graphics
    arena but feel my formal graphic training needs to be bolstered to practice credibly.
    To me, it's not about the degree or title or position, but rather about the knowledge.
    If you don't feel you have it, get it, whatever it takes.\r\n\r\nIn the end, there
    is no way to <strong>demand</strong> respect. You can only <strong>command</strong>
    respect! The way you do that is by focusing on the work and bringing wisdom and
    insight to the table. Say things at those meetings and design things that are
    so well considered and smart that their truth seems self-evident. Make solutions
    that seem inevitable. That will simply trump ignorance and professional pride
    to the people that matter. Let the rest sort itself out...it will anyways with
    or without your input and worry and effort.\r\n\r\nIt's amazing to me how much
    time people in corporate environments spend on learning how to \"play the game\"
    instead of focusing on the work and becoming the best they can at what they do.
    That's where value is built. The better, smarter, more talented, and more experienced
    you are at something, the more you are needed...and the jobs will come to you.\r\n\r\nThere
    is also an interesting phenomenon in the professional world where you are never
    an \"expert\" at anything until you SAY you are! Nobody told Matthew Carter he
    was an \"expert typographer\". He didn't wake up one morning and realize, \"oh,
    I'm an expert at typography now.\" He just stayed focused on the work for so long
    and got so good at it, that his status became obvious over time: it worked itself
    out. If you really want to be a \"typographer\" and that's where your passion
    is, then just say it dammit: call yourself a typographer. But then recognize that
    you have the terrifying task of dedicating your life to the pursuit of typographic
    knowledge and living up to it.\r\n\r\nEither have some fun with your title, or
    just make it so generic it's meaningless (since it is anyway, really...) Like
    Miss Tiffany: NICE! So, the business card is \"Type Fetishist\"?...Love it!\r\n\r\nHow
    about just using \"Designer\"? Yes, it's so broad as to be worthless, but maybe
    that's exactly what you need to avoid being boxed in. There will inevitably be
    a follow-up question: \"Well, what do you design?\", and that's when you have
    the opportunity to list your interests and show the portfolio. It's unrealistic
    to expect a reasonably short and printable phrase on a business card to convey
    all that.\r\n\r\nCheers All!"
  created: '2006-09-06 18:03:15'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> I\u2019ll buy that remark only if you define creative. To me the best design
    is the simplest, most useful presentation of something. To many others \u201Ccreative\u201D
    means making something wierd, different, and often confusing.\r\n\r\nMiss Tiffany
    , Creativity lies in simplicity (Beauty), easiness and functionality."
  created: '2006-09-06 19:23:49'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: 'I''ve actually heard of type designers referred to as "Fontographers". It
    makes any of the previously discussed distinctions seem fairly sophisticated. '
  created: '2006-09-06 19:31:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Or another longer way to say it:\r\n\"The guy who just thinks of  letters
    and then draws the outlines around them\"\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-06 19:46:18'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Ur. I didn't say that. But, I do agree with you.
  created: '2006-09-06 20:18:42'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "Much typological constructivism occuring.\r\nWhat about the type mechanics.It
    is easy to jam the pieces together to create a whole, while not observing the
    end result and future useage and useability of the construct. It's the type professors
    who observe the long term aesethetics of each glyph and how they interact with
    others within the typeface. I must fall within the purleau of mechanic."
  created: '2006-09-06 23:49:27'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "So sayeth Google:\r\n\r\nA typographer is...\r\n<ul><li>a specialist in the
    design of printed matter, and in particular the art of typography, the art and
    technique of selecting and arranging type styles, point sizes, line lengths, line
    leading, character spacing, and word spacing for typeset applications.</li>\r\n<li>A
    person with knowledge of letter design, punch cutting, type-founding and printing
    processes, who designs printed material from moveable type.</li>\r\n</ul>\r\nExcept
    for those few lovable Luddites who still practice the art of letterpress printing,
    the second definition is laughably quaint. As for the first definition, who is
    to say that one is a specialist? In the absence of formal accreditation, calling
    one's self a typographer isn't much different from calling one's self a fashion
    plate, a oenophile or a guru: saying it's so doesn't make it so...unless someone
    else buys it."
  created: '2006-09-07 01:02:25'
date: '2006-09-04 20:45:31'
title: Call it what it is!

---
