---
author:
  name: cosmorphis
body: I did a search for 'pronunciation' and found a couple forums with dead links.
  Does anyone know where that forum is which talks about the correct pronunciation
  of typefaces, or know where on the web I can find more information. Not any typeface
  in general, but more of a guide on all or a lot of typefaces. Thanks.
comments:
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Sounds like something we should turn into a Wiki entry! I found a list here,
    which I borrowed from mostly for entries rather than pronunciation: http://www.faqs.org/faqs/fonts-faq/part5/\r\n\r\nHere's
    my take on pronunciation:\r\n\r\nBenguiat: BEN-gat\r\n\r\nUnivers: oo'-nih-VAIR\r\n\r\nArnold
    Boecklin: AR-nolled BOKE-lin (the BOKE part is actually a German o with umlaut,
    but that's as close as most English speakers will get)\r\n\r\nFette Fraktur: FET-uh
    FROK-tour\r\n\r\nPeignot: pay-NYOH\r\n\r\nSabon: sah-BON (second syllable should
    have a nasal element, like bonjour)\r\n\r\nVeljovic: VELL-yoh-vitch'\r\n\r\nZapf:
    tzopf\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Jonathan Clede
      picture: 110376
    body: "Thomas Phinney wrote:\r\nUnivers: oo\u2019-nih-VAIR\r\n\r\nI thought this
      myself until Typecon. Now I'm not so sure. Everyone, including Bruno Steinert
      (and, I think, Mike Parker) who worked directly with Frutiger for many years
      pronounce it like the English word \"universe\".\r\n\r\nNow I'm just completely
      confused.\r\n\r\n\r\n-Jon-"
    created: '2006-09-07 00:09:38'
  created: '2006-09-05 09:46:15'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: '[[faq pronunciation]]'
  created: '2006-09-05 15:21:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Another way to 'phoneticize':\r\n\r\nFraktur: Frahk-tour\r\nZapf: Tzahpf\r\n\r\nThe
    correct pronunciation for the 'a' in these is the sound of 'a' in 'father'. (The
    sound of the English 'a' in 'cat' is not a part of German.) \r\n"
  created: '2006-09-05 15:49:37'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: I had a conversation with one of my professors about how to pronouce Kabel.
    I said it's KAH-BUL. What's correct? I'm glad OONIVAIR was on the list because
    I heard people at TypeCon pronounce it so many different ways.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Typography.Guru
      picture: 110253
    body: "<cite> I said it\u2019s KAH-BUL. What\u2019s correct?</cite>\r\n\r\nNo,
      it's rather BEL insteat of BUL. Just say the last part as in \"cable\" and you
      are fine.\r\n\r\nRalf\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fonts.info"
    created: '2006-09-06 08:33:23'
  created: '2006-09-05 16:19:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Nice wiki, Paul.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.phonetics.ucla.edu/course/chapter1/consonants2.html\">This</a>
    is cool. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-05 16:54:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">pronounce it so many different ways.\r\n\r\nI think there is always a choice
    of trying to pronounce it as in the language or origin, or Anglicise (or Americanize)
    it. If you have studied the language or are good at foreign phonemes, then my
    view is go for it. But it is perfectly acceptable to do an Anglicized version.
    So Univers is also 'universe', etc. \r\n\r\nIn the case where the phoneme exists
    in English, then I think it preferable to use it. \r\n\r\nFor example, we have
    the 'ts' or 'tz' sound, as in 'nuts', though in English it never starts a word.
    And we have the 'a' in 'father', as well as 'cat'. So I think 'tzahpf' (correct
    German) or 'zahpf' (z as in zoo, a bit Anglicized) is preferable to 'zapf', with
    the z as in zoo and the a as in cat.   "
  created: '2006-09-05 17:02:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Univers and Kabel also have very similar sounding English translations, so
    I think it is acceptable to pronounce them in an English manner. But would "Cavo"
    be OK for Kabel in Italian?
  created: '2006-09-05 17:15:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That Paul Hunt is johnny-on-the-spot with Wiki entries! Thanks Paul!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-05 18:03:20'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: by all means, if the pronunciations in the wiki can be improved, please correct
    them. i just copy/pasted from one of the other pronunciation threads i found.
  created: '2006-09-05 18:35:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: A musical troop from Bitstream performed a G&S style number at TypeCon, rhyming
    off a great long list of typeface names. Where can that be downloaded?
  created: '2006-09-05 18:41:43'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Funny, I was just wondering how to pronounce Herb Lubalin's last name. (There's
    a huge billboard near my house that uses Lubalin Graph.)\r\n\r\nLoob-ALLEN?\r\nLOO-ball-in?"
  created: '2006-09-05 19:48:59'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>Loob-ALLEN?\r\n> LOO-ball-in?</em>\r\n\r\nFunny you should ask.\r\nI
    had to ask Ilene Strizver just to be sure, right before I gave the \"Type & Design
    Education\" presentation at TypeCon.\r\n\r\nI always knew the pronunciation as
    LOO-BAAL-in (\"BAAL\" rhymes with the name \"AL\").\r\n\r\nBut once I heard Ed
    Benguiat pronounce Herb's last name as LOOB-AH-lin (as in lube-ah-lyn), which
    made me question since I never met Herb myself.\r\n\r\nIlene had worked with Herb
    Lubalin, and she said Benguiat was pulling my leg (again).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-05 20:16:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Ralf!\r\nSo then does it sound like the name of the Iraq city?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-06 13:29:40'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "> So then does it sound like the name of the Iraq city?\r\n\r\nI would think
    the font's name has the stress more decidedly on the first syllable."
  created: '2006-09-06 14:13:23'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>I would think the font\u2019s name has the stress more decidedly on
    the first syllable.</cite>\r\n\r\nExactly. \r\nIt's really pretty much like \"cable\"
    but with a tough German \"KAH\" syllable at the beginning.\r\n\r\nRalf\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fonts.info"
  created: '2006-09-06 14:59:09'
- author:
    name: jonsel
    picture: 111354
  body: "> So then does it sound like the name of the Iraq city?\r\n\r\nActually,
    Kabul is the capital of Afghanistan.  Kabel is the typeface."
  created: '2006-09-06 15:51:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sorry, my mistake.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-06 16:29:55'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "another try: \r\n\r\nThe \"bel\" is pronounced very similar to the \"ell\"
    in the english \"bell\"  (but not as short).\r\n\r\nCombined with emphasis on
    the first syllable, it says:\r\nKaabel(l)"
  created: '2006-09-06 20:09:05'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Perhaps we need a \"pedantic\" version of the pronunciation guide too. ;^)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-07 00:22:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "or a \"when in Rome\" version?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-07 01:49:01'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I think most American designers pronounce "Univers" the same as "universe"
    (including me), but I do feel self-conscious sometimes about saying it that way
    around other type designers since I realize that Mr. Frutiger would not pronounce
    it that way. No one ever corrected me, though, so I assumed it was okay (and I
    still do).
  created: '2006-09-07 02:35:04'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>A musical troop from Bitstream performed a G&S style number at TypeCon,
    rhyming off a great long list of typeface names. Where can that be downloaded?</em>\r\n\r\nAs
    a matter of fact...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.marksimonson.com/bitstream-song.mp3\r\n\r\n(I
    have video, too, but it's not worth the bandwidth.)"
  created: '2006-09-07 02:47:25'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: Priceless, thanks Mark! (BTW, I'm waiting for photos of the Restaurant Identity
    project I used Mostra on. I'll send copies your way when I get them.)
  created: '2006-09-07 03:20:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I do feel self-conscious sometimes about saying it that way\r\n\r\nWe Americans,
    bless us, want to show our respect for foreigners by trying to pronounce their
    names their way. The English tend to unapologetically Anglicize foreign names.
    (At least traditionally; don't know whether that's changed.) Either way is ok,
    in my view. The problem with typeface names is that they have been so little spoken
    that for many there is no standard way to Anglicize them, in the sense that you
    can look it up and get something authoritative. \r\n\r\nSo I say do what you are
    comfortable with--GAIR-a-mond or Gahr a MON (nasal 'on'), oo-ni-VAIR or universe--and
    enjoy the type! "
  created: '2006-09-07 03:27:21'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "Does anyone know how to pronouce Marian Bantjes last name?\r\n\r\nI have
    an interview with F+W publishing on Friday, and I'd like to comment (positively)
    on the recent cover of Print."
  created: '2006-09-07 03:42:20'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "This is perfect! Now I can win some debates with some fellow students:\r\n\r\nEmigre
    Filosofia? Is it Feelo-Sophee-a or Philosophy-a?\r\n\r\nLetterperfect Beata? Is
    it Beeta or Baytuh?\r\n\r\nLetraset Aachen? Is it A-uh-ken, ah-ken, a-uh-chen,
    or ah-chen? \r\n\r\nHa! I should start betting now..."
  created: '2006-09-07 04:12:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "AH-ken. Just like the city it's named after.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-09-07 04:34:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Aachen. Anglicized, as Thomas says. In German, ah-chen, with ''ch'' as in
    the composer J.S. Bach or the Scottish word for lake, ''loch''.  '
  created: '2006-09-07 04:59:54'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "That Bitstream song, Mr. Simonson, is <em>pure</em> gold.\r\n\r\nCan we have
    an Adobe -- FontShop -- ITC/Monotype sing off at the next TypeCon? I can already
    see how ITC/Monotype could potentially pull an all nighter :)\r\n\r\nOn the same
    note -- sorry to veer off here -- check this out, a song called, rather inapropriately,
    </em><A HREF=http://sevcom.com/opdate/>Kern That Bembo Tighter</A>.</em>\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, how do you pronounce Fountain's Waldstein? 'Woldsteen', 'Waaldstein'
    or 'Vaaldstein' as it is spoken in Germany (maybe)?"
  created: '2006-09-07 07:26:39'
- author:
    name: ndmike
    picture: 109528
  body: "And... (now you've got me thinking...)\r\n\r\nWalbaum: WAHL-bowm <em>or</em>
    VAHL-bawm (the German way)?\r\n\r\nGoudy: GOW-dy (see <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frederic_Goudy\">http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frederic_Goudy</a>)\r\n\r\nBarmeno:
    bar-MEEN-oh <em>or</em> bar-MEN-oh?\r\n\r\nBerthold: BER-told <em>or</em> BEART
    (rhymes with \"bear\")-hold?\r\n\r\nBodoni: bo-DOH-nee (I presume the Italian
    way) <em>or</em> bo-DONE (rhymes with \"bone\")-ee?\r\n\r\nCaslon: CAS-lun <em>or</em>
    CAS-lawn?\r\n\r\nFago: FAY-go <em>or</em> FAH-go?\r\n\r\nScala: SCAY-luh <em>or</em>
    SCA-lah?\r\n\r\nKeivit: KYEH-vit?\r\n\r\nFenice: rhymes with Venice? <em>or</em>
    fen-EES\r\n\r\nUnivers: your pronunciations are very helpful, but I've always
    called it (erroneously, I suppose) YOU-ni-verz\r\n\r\nAnd lastly, Comic Sans:
    KO-mic SANDS <em>or</em> ko-MEEK SAWN (nasally)... you know, lipstick on a pig
    and all...\r\n\r\nI could go on all day!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-07 12:44:21'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Fenice: fay-nee-CHAY\r\n\r\nI think it's funny--it's almost like it's not
    a real typeface unless there is some confusion as to how to pronounce its name."
  created: '2006-09-07 14:47:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "FRROW-ghee\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-07 16:25:00'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"ko-MEEK SAWN\"\r\n\r\nI love this, it's like Tarr-Szay. Maybe it will help
    the reputation of Comic Sans. If we put enough lipstick on this pig, who knows?\r\n\r\nMike
    Abbink could share the story of Kievit; it's very sweet. Is he listening?.....\r\n\r\nI'm
    afraid I'm only adding to the mess. My new typeface has a name that apparently
    nobody can pronounce when they first read it. Beorcana is not that strange when
    you realize it's pronounced like Bjork, with -ana on the end: Byor-KON-uh. But
    my family and friends keep mangling the name when they say it. Maybe I should
    have named it ESPN.   ;D"
  created: '2006-09-07 18:04:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"my family and friends keep mangling the name\"\r\n\r\nLOL! Maybe that is
    why Eric and FontFont are so fond of those 3-letter font names?\r\n;^D\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-07 18:14:58'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"FRROW-ghee\"\r\n\r\nIs the r trilled, then?  \r\n\r\n;)"
  created: '2006-09-07 18:20:56'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"Fenice: rhymes with Venice? or fen-EES\"\r\n\r\n\"Ver - SAYCE\""
  created: '2006-09-07 18:21:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Carl, Yes it is a rolled Italian r best pronounced with an audible croaking
    sound afterwards :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-07 18:36:16'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I think Fenice is actually Feh-KNEE-chey ... feh as in fed the dog ... chay
    as in pay.\r\n\r\nI hope my earlier remark about pedantic didn't offend anyone.
    I was just being silly. Obviously what I found as funny didn't translate. :^/"
  created: '2006-09-07 18:57:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I thought it was funny Tiff but that is how I am wired :-P\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-07 19:03:39'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Carl, you were being funny. :^> I didn't see your version until just now.
  created: '2006-09-07 19:12:34'
- author:
    name: ndmike
    picture: 109528
  body: "Wow! Feh-KNEE-chay? I would never have guessed. I suppose that's why we need
    this thread after all. Beginning designers rarely hear the name spoken; they just
    see it listed in a font menu.\r\n\r\nTwo more that came up this morning:\r\n\r\nSabon:
    with or without a nasal ending?\r\n\r\nFutura: FYOO-too-rah <em>or</em> <em>or</em>
    FYOO-tchur-ah <em>or</em> FOO-tchur-ah?\r\n\r\nIn fact, name pronunciation came
    up in a class today, where a guy apologized for pronouncing St. Augustine, AW-gus-teen
    (which is how the city in Florida is pronounced), rather than the more popular
    (in academic circles, anyhow), uh-GUS-tin. Naturally, I immediately wanted to
    create a font with that name to fit Mark's Maxim above."
  created: '2006-09-07 19:15:06'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Futura: FYOO-too-rah or or FYOO-tchur-ah or FOO-tchur-ah?</cite>\r\n\r\nNone
    is right! ;-)\r\nIt's Foo-TOO-rah.\r\n\r\n\r\nRalf\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fonts.info"
  created: '2006-09-07 20:02:35'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "So it is spelled like Latin, yes? I wonder if Fenice, Scala, Fago are supposed
    to be spelled that way. No fuss. No accent.\r\n\r\nBy to by, is Mr. Abbink a member?"
  created: '2006-09-07 20:09:59'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Since so much of this discussion is about Frutiger...\r\n\r\nis it FRUIT-i-ger
    or Froo-tee-ZHAY?"
  created: '2006-09-07 21:16:12'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: "If I may crash in: FRUIT-iger, the German way.\r\n\r\nAnd a couple more on
    German: VAHL-bowm would be best.\r\n\r\nKAH-bull is fine, and KAH-bell is possible
    \u2014 depending on Koch having a northern or southern German accent? But the
    a in Zapf is short by all means, actually closer to CAT: so, TSAPF.\r\n\r\nIncidentally,
    the same should have applied for Bach, the English pronunciation is a little wide
    of the mark. Just in case someone might fancy naming a typeface after him. We
    already have Handel Gothic :)\r\n\r\nA little Latin (or Italian?): Beata is Bay-AH-tah.
    Wonder if Futura should be Latin with a touch of German accent?"
  created: '2006-09-07 21:45:12'
- author:
    name: michelemiller
  body: "I'll ask Mike--I have to touch base with him anyway.\r\n\r\nFroo-ti-ger?\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-07 21:53:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I've been wondering how to configure special German versions of fonts with
    low-riding umlauts on the A and U, and the answer may be to translate the name
    of the typeface, so that the regular western version is, say, Brown, but the German
    version is Braun.
  created: '2006-09-08 00:21:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "As I pour another cup of jo from my Braun coffeemaker and ponder...:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-08 00:33:55'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "<a href=\"http://dict.leo.org/le?9144885\">mp3 of \"das kabel\"</a>, meaning
    \"the cable\" - just try to cut \"das\" away.\r\n\r\ni couldnt find one for \"univers\".\r\n\r\nmaybe
    a little help in the case of frutiger: the german word <a href=\"http://dict.leo.org/le?15177823\">\"die
    frustration\"</a> (the same as the english word) has \"fru\" in it, pronounced
    similarly in frutiger."
  children:
  - author:
      name: MHSmith
      picture: 111858
    body: 'Sorry for Frutiger''s Frustration, but U is long in Frutiger and short
      in Frustration. Same difference as between ''boot'' and ''look''. Or is it different
      in Zurich, Kesh? (Closer to Frutiger''s birthplace: my German is of the northern
      sort.)'
    created: '2006-09-08 07:45:08'
  created: '2006-09-08 04:05:33'
- author:
    name: SourisNoire
    picture: 111237
  body: "I would have thought you glyph-loving people would jump at the chance to
    use IPA.\r\nI'd hate to hear the average scot tackle LOO-BAAL-in..."
  created: '2006-09-08 08:48:42'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "You can listen to some typeface pronunciations in the MyFonts podcast: http://www.myfonts.com/info/typecast-podcast/\r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-09-08 09:00:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Having read an article in the September issue of Computer Arts Magazine (UK),
    \ I was amused to read Jason Arber's comments regarding the name of my typeface
    Chevin. He reckons that \u2013 \"my grandmother could think of a better name than
    this bizarre contraction of Chav and Kevin\". \r\n\r\nI hadn't thought of that
    when I named it \u2013 it's actually named after the hill that overlooks the town
    where I live, as I couldn't think of a name and looked out of the window and thought
    'That'll do'. \r\n\r\n\u2013 See the time, effort and complicated tought processes
    we type designers put in to come up with a catchy name?\r\n\r\nBTW it's pronounced
    'Shevin' as in shout, not Chevin as in Charles. Oh, and while I'm at it; Houschka
    is pronounced 'Hooshka', not as in house.\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2006-09-08 11:24:12'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: 'Here''s a nice one, picked from the Bitstream song: Eurostile. Looks easy
    but... ever noticed it''s stile with i, not y? That means it''s Italian. So (deep
    breath): AY-oo-roh-STEE-lay!'
  created: '2006-09-08 15:31:36'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'Nobel: NO-bull or no-BELL?'
  children:
  - author:
      name: MHSmith
      picture: 111858
    body: Hmm. Never thought of this, but if it's named after Alfred Nobel, born in
      Stockholm, it should be... NOO-bull.
    created: '2006-09-08 18:43:42'
  created: '2006-09-08 17:08:07'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: Someone with authorization needs to put a [[faq pronunciation|Pronunciation]]
    link at the Wiki start page.
  created: '2006-09-09 03:48:25'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I share SourisNoire's surprise that no one is jumping at the chance to use
    those IPA glyphs. Here is my take. I added what I took to be the original languages
    in parentheses. Of course, in English pronunciation, these will all be appropriately
    anglicised. I myself anglicise the words heavily when speaking in English. I must
    say though that I have hardly ever had the opportunity to pronounce many of these
    names in real life.\r\n\r\nI made no effort to reflect regional variances in pronunciation
    (e.g. the dozens of varieties of Swiss German). Please correct me if you find
    mistakes.\r\n\r\nAkzidenz Grotesk [\u02C8ak.\u02A6\u026A.d\u0259n\u02A6 \u0261\u0281o.\u02C8t\u025Bsk]
    (German)\r\nAvenir [av.\u02C8ni\u0281] (French)\r\nBenguiat [\u02C8ben.\u0261\xE6t]
    (English)\r\nBerthold [\u02C8b\u025B\u0250.tolt] (German)\r\nEnschede [\u02C8\u025Bn.sx\u0259.de\u02D0]
    (Dutch)\r\nFraktur [\u02C8f\u0281ak.t\u028A\u0250] (German)\r\nFrutiger [\u02C8f\u0281\u028A.t\u026A.\u0261\u0250]
    (German)\r\nGaramond [\u0261a.\u0281a.\u02C8m\xF5] (French)\r\nGill [\u0261\u026Al]
    (English)\r\nGoudy [\u02C8\u0261a\u028A.di] (English)\r\nKabel [\u02C8ka.b\u0259l]
    (German)\r\nneue [\u02C8n\u0254\u028F.\u0259] (German)\r\nPeignot [p\u025B.\u02C8\u0272o]
    (French)\r\nSabon [sa.\u02C8b\xF5] (French)\r\nTschichold [\u02A7\u026A.xolt]
    (German)\r\nUnivers [y.ni.\u02C8v\u025B\u0281] (French)\r\nVeljovi\u0107 [\u02C8ve.\u028Eo.vi\u02A8]
    (Serbian)\r\nZapf [\u02A6apf] (German)\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-09 10:02:43'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "I\u2019m no swede but I say no-Bell."
  created: '2006-09-09 10:12:02'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: Considering the font itself isn't Swedish, I must admit NOO-bull would be
    overdoing things a bit... So that leaves us with the Dutch pronunciation in memory
    of S.J. de Roos, and plain Font Bureau English. Which wouldn't make much difference.
  created: '2006-09-09 11:25:02'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "<em>Considering the font itself isn\u2019t Swedish</em>\r\n\r\n<strong>That\u2019s</strong>
    what counts?\r\n\r\nWhat if I made a font called Tschichold. Should it be pronounced
    like an average Finn would?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: MHSmith
      picture: 111858
    body: "Shouldn\u2019t it? I suppose whoever designed the typeface and named it
      should know best. Which doesn't mean you should pronounce the French word Univers
      with a German-Swiss accent... Just splitting hairs for fun, you know. Nobel
      is a household word anyway in any country so the font can follow local custom
      too.\r\n\r\nTschichold would be a problem to transpose into plain Finnish phonetics
      wouldn't it (Sisold?)? But I know you're good at languages and would get the
      German pronunciation right. Anyway, if you named a font after Tschichold, you
      would be infringing Presence Typo copyright. Unless the court buys the argument
      that your Tschichold is pronounced differently :)"
    created: '2006-09-09 11:41:55'
  created: '2006-09-09 11:36:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Jongseong, I think you are right that pronounciation in many languages can
    only be done properly by using phonetic symbols--or by explaining which English
    letters you are going to use represent a specific sound or phonetic symbol. \r\n\r\nHowever,
    as most people don't know the phonetic symbols--I only know a few--I think it
    is just too complicated to try to represent  pronounciation in original languages
    accurately. What those who contribute to the wiki could do very helpfully is to
    indicate an appropriate or acceptable English pronounciation.\r\n\r\nFor example
    if you ask Zapf, my guess is that he would find zapf, with the z as in zoo and
    the a in father an acceptable English variant. But probably z as in zoo and a
    as in cat less acceptable. If Dan can ask Zapf--who has taught to English speaking
    students so he would have dealt with the issue--that would settle it.   \r\n\r\nAn
    example of the difficulty of doing phonetics is your phonetic version of German
    names. You use the 'schwa', the upside down e that represents a sound* common
    in English and Hebrew. However, if I'm not mistaken the schwa is isn't officially
    part of German. So using it to represent German names is already 'Anglicizing'
    them. Of course there are many dialects and pronounciations of German, so it may
    be accurate in some, but I don't think in official 'high German'. Perhaps some
    German speakers who know phonetics can enlighten us on contemporary German pronunciation.
    --But it is an endless discussion, as this thread shows. \r\n\r\n*In English,
    the schwa is the sound of the 'e' in 'the man'. "
  created: '2006-09-09 18:16:33'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: "The schwa is perfectly OK in Kabel and Neue, but in Akzidenz I rather think
    the stress is on the end, like this [ak.\u02A6\u026A.\u02C8d\u025Bn\u02A6 \u0261\u0281o.\u02C8t\u025Bsk].
    I may be proved wrong by a genuinely German forum-goer.\r\n\r\nTyping in IPA is
    fun, but isn't it awfully time-consuming? I cheated for this post, it's all copy-pasted,
    thanks Jongseong."
  created: '2006-09-09 18:41:41'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "MHSmith, you're probably right about the stress being on the end in Akzidenz.
    That's why I probably should have had a disclaimer that I don't speak German (or
    Dutch or Serbian for that matter)--it's all educated guesswork.\r\n\r\nI happen
    to be interested in pronunciation issues because when I write foreign proper names
    in Korean in the hangul alphabet, I have to know approximately how they are pronounced
    so I can transcribe them correctly. And I've found there is just no entirely satisfactory
    way of communicating pronunciations in writing, especially when different languages
    are involved. Things like regional variations in pronunciation in both the source
    and target languages, the degree to which the pronunciation should be adapted
    to the sound system of the target language...\r\n\r\nSo it's a hopeless task.
    But I'm used to the IPA (most dictionaries I have use modified versions of it),
    and they are certainly fun to type.\r\n\r\nBy the way, I did study Swedish in
    university and 'no-BELL' sounds like a perfectly good approximation of how Nobel
    would be pronounced in Swedish."
  children:
  - author:
      name: MHSmith
      picture: 111858
    body: "Fascinating. I wish I knew more about Asian languages and scripts. But
      there's plenty of fun in our own little regional variations in the use of the
      Latin alphabet. About Nobel, shouldn't the O sound like a long OO even without
      receiving the stress? I admit my notions of Swedish are recent and vague. And
      about source and target languages, I have realised after a moment that my own
      proposals for pronouncing fonts were biased by British usage. When I say a cat,
      it may sound more or less like Zapf, but a Texan would disagree with my transcription.
      \r\n\r\nTime for bed now in our corner of the world."
    created: '2006-09-09 21:53:28'
  created: '2006-09-09 19:16:22'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "\xABMHSmith, you\u2019re probably right about the stress being on the end
    in Akzidenz.\xBB\r\n\r\nfor the e, i'd rather say the sound like the e of \"dentist\".\r\n\r\nbut
    you're right, im pronouncing frutiger like i'd do in swiss-german, not high-german,
    where the u gets alot more emphasis than in swiss-german. i pronounce the u closed
    if that makes sense, and yes, there are so many swiss-german accents anyway. i
    grew up in zurich which has a short and un-melodical sound while frutiger grew
    up in the mountain region near berne (interlaken iirc), which features a very
    melodical sound."
  created: '2006-09-10 16:43:34'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>About Nobel, shouldn\u2019t the O sound like a long OO even without
    receiving the stress?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, you're right. According to my dictionary,
    it should be [n\u028A.\u02C8b\u025Bl], so the O sound is similar to the English
    long OO in quality, although not in quantity, as it is short, not long. I just
    meant it's a lot closer to 'no-BELL' than to the word 'noble'."
  created: '2006-09-11 06:06:16'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: "A couple more before this thread dies out completely. Don't think they've
    been mentioned yet.\r\n\r\nPoppl Exquisit is Ex-kvi-ZEET.\r\nAnd R. Excoffon's
    Chambord is Shom-BORE (in case someone decides to digitise it)."
  created: '2006-09-18 10:24:20'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Its the first time I understood the acronym \"rofl\".\r\n(I never ever thought
    about the problems you guy might have to pronounce german words, sorry).\r\n\r\nBut
    I like your olympic thinking: important is to be part of it, right?\r\n\r\nBest
    regards from Germany\r\n(I am joking and its phantastic from you guys to try to
    understand the difficult pronounciation of german words)\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-19 08:51:04'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: Ooo ooo... here's one...  Carolingian as in Carolingian scripts.
  created: '2006-09-21 06:06:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Pronownce the \"Car\" like they do in Boston\" then \"row\" as in boat then
    Lingion.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-21 12:47:38'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Send a list with all german font names and I read and speak it to a  wave
    file to be downloaded on my website.\r\n\r\nI see it seems to be important for
    you.\r\n\r\nOkay: Where is the list?\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de\"
    target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Preu\xDFisches Bleisatz-Magazin</a><br />\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de/img/ichbineinpreusse.mp3\" target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\"><i>\"Ich
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben?\"</i></a><br />"
  created: '2006-09-21 15:12:23'
date: '2006-09-05 07:23:57'
title: Pronouncing Typefaces

---
