---
author:
  name: Mister M
body: "I don't know what happened to a topic that was posted by Paul Petch aka 'iostmypassword'.
  But in it he was sharing a buiseness card he designed for his wife, I belived it
  was titled \"Buiseness Card\" or something. Anyway, when i posted a comment it said
  \"Page not found\" so perhaps the topic was removed. But I just want to repost my
  comment because i feel it's important that others hear what I have to say.\r\n\r\nNow
  I love Typophile, it has been a tremendous help to me as a designer and continues
  to be. I know others feel the same way. But lately I found this forum to be leaning
  toward harsh, petty criticism of people's work. Now I have always believed that
  criticism equals refinement, especially in our line of work, but we must not forget
  that this blog also serves to edify, to encourage to bolster our confidence. I mean
  come on people it's just a buiseness card and in my opinion a beautifully designed
  one at that. But all I can read is comment's like \"It looks like another card you
  designed before\", \"why do you need the letter 'e' before the email address\",
  \"the name Amy shows through on the other side\". In the end Mr Petch commented
  on how it's just a card and defended his work. BRAVO. But it was upsetting to me
  because lately I've been thinking twice about posting anything. I mean Mr. Petch
  obviously worked hard on the design and proofed it multiple times to insure that
  it was just right and all others can do is, in my opinion, be petty. Comments like
  that can really undermind a person's confidence and with time render them useless
  with selfdoubt.  Oh and another thing, This kind of behavior also discourages others
  from posting great examples of their work, like Mr Petch's. When he posted the topic
  he clearly stated that he wanted to <em>share</em> his work with us. He never asked
  us directly what we thought or how we could improve it. So please, let us not give
  answers to questions no one asked. \r\n\r\nI don't pretend to be this great designer
  who is better than everyone else. But I do believe their is truth in what I say.
  And we All (myself included) must be careful of not to fall into this trap.\r\n\r\nMr
  Petch, love your work. Please dont stop sharing it with us.\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: Typophile is not a "blog".  It is a "forum".     cheerio
  created: '2006-09-06 05:39:36'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "<strong>He never asked us directly what we thought or how we could improve
    it. So please, let us not give answers to questions no one asked.</strong>\r\n\r\n\"Mr
    Petch, love your work.\"\r\nDid Paul contact you asking for your opinion of his
    work?\r\n\r\n\r\nER - Mister M did not ask if Typophile was a blog or a forum,
    please don't answer questions no one asked.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic
    Design, Melbourne</a>"
  created: '2006-09-06 05:50:50'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I cannot find the thread either, or rather, I found the thread on Google,
    but the link is dead. Perhaps its author asked for it to be removed, and it was.
    I do not know.\r\n\r\nHowever, I would encourage anyone (and everyone) to post
    their work on Typophile\u2026 both for show AND for critique. We have several
    forums here on Typophile. In the critique section, posted work should be critiqued;
    that is why it is posted there in the first place, right? I have gotten great
    feedback over the years in that forum, and I recommend it to anyone.\r\n\r\nWork
    posted in General Discussions or in the Design forums (I don't know where the
    thread in question was posted), is not for outright critique per se. However\u2014and
    this is only my personal opinion\u2014I think that some critique of others' work
    should be allowed, if other posters find such helpful or necessary. Anytime anyone
    puts their work in the public forum, they should be open not only to constructive
    feedback, but negative feedback as well\u2026 I'm not saying that anyone's work
    should be trashed here\u2026 not at all! But, when you post your work to the public,
    you should keep in mind that not every one in the public is necessarily nice.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    the line between constructive criticism and negative feedback is subjective. Everyone
    has different degrees of personal sensitivity to these matters. As a poster posting
    on someone else's thread, it can be difficult to sense out someone's boundaries
    if you do not know them personally. Heck, it can be difficult sometimes even if
    you DO know them personally.\r\n\r\nI hope that this has not scared you off, Ivan.
    Please do post your work here on Typophile. Depending on the project and its level
    of completion, place your posts in the relevant section\u2026 put please don't
    go away\u2026 Typophile is a lovely place.\r\n\r\nP.S.: The best thing to do about
    negative posts is to ignore them."
  created: '2006-09-06 05:51:31'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "you're so much more eloquent than I Mr Reynolds.<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic
    Design, Melbourne</a>"
  created: '2006-09-06 05:54:04'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: Yeah, I logged on for the first time in a couple months just recently because
    of this kind of stuff.
  created: '2006-09-06 05:55:32'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Paul, I don't know if I'm eloquent or not, but I am a moderator on these forums,
    and Ivan did raise a serious issue. I hope that I've answered it to some degree
    of satisfaction.
  created: '2006-09-06 05:56:30'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "Oh my! Now I'm confused ... are people being aggressive or nice?!?!/\r\n\r\nhehehe\r\n\r\n:)\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Design, Melbourne</a>"
  created: '2006-09-06 05:59:24'
- author:
    name: Mister M
  body: "Thanks for your post everyone. \r\n\r\nDan Reynolds\r\nI agree 100% with
    your comment. I'm in no way saying I won't post here anymore and I do understand
    that this is a public forum but i just felt it got a bit out of hand. It seemd
    the longer the forum topic stayed up the worse and petty I thought some of  the
    comments got. Maybe the post was removed because of it. I don't belive it was
    in the 'Critique'\r\nsection. I remember the first time I posted some type I designed.
    I was so excited for feedback and got it. I remember Hrant described it as having
    a 'me too\" kind of feel (he was right by the way). That hurt. But he also commended
    me on the effort I put into my work and encouraged further exploration. So I took
    a licking and became better for it. That's what it's all about.\r\n\r\nER \r\nMy
    bad, Thanks for the correction\r\n\r\nRatbaggy\r\nI apologize if my comments came
    off a little \"holier-than-thou\" that was not my intention. This is a public
    forum so I'm free to say what I feel just like evryone else. And I'm sure he expected
    to get a comment or two but probably didn't expect it to go that far. I'm in no
    way advocating personal censorship, just tactfullness.\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-06 06:31:55'
- author:
    name: ilostmypassword
    picture: 111853
  body: "Hey Guys,\r\n\r\n*blushes*\r\n\r\nQuite simply, the thread  was becoming
    very negative and personal.\r\n\r\nI had no choice but to delete it from within
    my Admin panel. Apologies.\r\n\r\nThis does not mean that i will stop posting
    my work in the future. \r\n\r\nIt's all good :D\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n_________________
    \r\n\r\nPaul\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-06 06:48:10'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "Ahh see this is why i think we need a critique forum and a showcase forum.
    I think we would get to see a lot more cool work with a showcase forum where some
    of the pros on here can post their work without little people like me undermining
    them :P\r\n\r\nIt would be nice for people who don't want critiques to be able
    to post their work. And we could see more general work like print designs or websites
    etc. that also displays their cool type. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: ilostmypassword
      picture: 111853
    body: " \r\n\r\nGreat idea J-polo9! \r\n\r\n_________________ \r\n\r\nPaul"
    created: '2006-09-06 09:30:09'
  created: '2006-09-06 08:52:43'
- author:
    name: Termopolium
  body: "Well, being able to defend your work and take constructive critique is the
    most important skill a designer can have. In real life, it often trumps mere technical
    or artistic skill. The design process is, after all, a process of communication,
    and the client must be involved. \r\n\r\nCritique is not an attack, it's a contribution."
  children:
  - author:
      name: ilostmypassword
      picture: 111853
    body: "\r\n\r\nHey Term. \r\n\r\nNo one is denying that it's vital as a designer
      to embrace constructive feedback.\r\n\r\nOr that we see critique as an attack.
      \r\n\r\nI believe that people should be able to post work without having analyzed
      if they don't want it be analyzed. J_polo's suggestion about setting up a thread
      that caters to people who \"just want to show their work\" is a great idea.
      \r\n\r\nIf this concept was embraced, i'm sure that the forum would see a lot
      of varied works posted.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n_________________ \r\n\r\nPaul"
    created: '2006-09-06 11:36:37'
  created: '2006-09-06 10:58:33'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "allow posted threads to be locked (i.e, no replies).\r\n\r\nor ...\r\n\r\nif
    you don't want feedback (good AND/OR bad) ... don't post?\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic
    Design, Melbourne</a>"
  children:
  - author:
      name: ilostmypassword
      picture: 111853
    body: "Thing is ratbaggy, at no time did i ask for feedback.. i just wanted to
      share. I mean if i was to visit your folio and post up modified (copyrighted
      by the way)  versions of it\u2026. make sexist comments and then tell you that
      your \u201Cpersonal\u201D likes and preferences are \u201Cincorrect\u201D \u2026.
      is that appropriate behaviour & classed as critique?\r\n\r\nYou have your website
      linked as part of your signature, so does this mean i can critique your work
      without an invite? \r\n\r\nInfact, what actually constitutes an appropriate
      critique? Are personal likes/ dislikes really valid? Call me old fashioned,
      but it\u2019s just poor manners to comment on ones work unless invited.\r\n\r\nBut
      let\u2019s be a little realistic here. It\u2019s a public forum, not a client
      briefing or meeting room. And I've now learnt that posting artwork will provoke
      a response (not necessarily a critique) of all shapes and sizes!... Even if
      i want to hear it or not ;)\r\n\r\nSo in the future I\u2019ll keep my work private
      unless I want a critique. \r\n\r\nSeriously, problem solved and no harm done
      :D\r\n\r\n\r\n_________________ \r\n\r\nPaul"
    created: '2006-09-06 13:43:17'
  created: '2006-09-06 12:41:46'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "> <em>if you don\u2019t want feedback (good AND/OR bad) \u2026 don\u2019t
    post</em>\r\n\r\nI vote for this option, actually. I don't want to sound crass,
    but I find the idea of posting \"show\" threads that cannot be replied to silly.
    Unless it is a simple text press release or something. I'm not sure that Typophile
    should be a marketing tool for designers' images. Shouldn't this place be about
    discussion? Isn't that what keeps us all coming back?"
  created: '2006-09-06 13:08:14'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "As the heading says - RELAX.\r\nMr DuccoDesign, settle down a bit and stop
    the aggressive push. I didnt get to see original thread, but if the poster had
    decided the critique had become personal, when should have been about the work
    (and constructive), then I see no problem with the choice to remove the thread
    as obviously the intended original reason for posting was peverted.\r\nOh, I see
    like a good advertising exec, you have a link to your company. What a good little
    advertiser you are.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-06 13:13:15'
- author:
    name: BradB
    picture: 111285
  body: Paul, it's good to see you taking the high road. I've subscribed to your blog.
  created: '2006-09-06 14:39:07'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Just a comment. When I see threads such as this one I generally read through
    them completely. I learn from the comments. I don't agree with some of the comments,
    but I like to try to see where the poster was coming from. It helps me understand
    the difficult-to-understand design process.\r\n\r\nI commend the original poster
    for submitting his work. I commend all those people who made suggestions on how
    it might be improved. (I think we should assume that posted work is being posted
    for comment. Why else would it be posted?)"
  created: '2006-09-06 14:45:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"where some of the pros on here can post their work without little people
    like me undermining them\"\r\n\r\n\r\nThere are no little people, there are just
    people. As people, we all have faults.  Some of our faults are demonstrated here
    when we post in a tactless manner. That does not make us large or small, just
    one more fallable creature among many.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-06 14:55:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The motto of Typophile is \"Typographic Collaboration\" and the subtitle
    on \"General Discussions\" is \"Anything goes\". Perhaps for these reasons, anything
    posted to the forum is regarded by regulars as an invitation to comment and critique.
    \r\n\r\nThere is also a 'person blog' option  where people can post without the
    same implicit invitation to comment. \r\n\r\nPerhaps Paul Hunt could add this
    info to his useful set of guidelines?"
  created: '2006-09-06 15:02:56'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "typothetical - MrMeadeDesign ... the aggression you find in my comment/s
    is non existent (or at the very least unintentional). I'm not an advertsing exec.
    I do have a link to a website in my signature, I hand out business cards too.
    Should the link not be there, is it inappropriate? \r\n\r\n:)\r\n\r\nPaul (Petch)
    I hear you. Seriously I do. It's one of those endless arguments (unfortunately)\r\nThe
    sexist stuff (I'm not aware of the context) may have been out of line. Though,
    on the other hand it may have been a joke - perhaps not appropriate behaviour
    (but nonetheless, nothing to lose sleep, or a thread over IMO).\r\n\r\nI do have
    a website linked as part of my signature, if people would like to comment on the
    site, or on any of the work ... and they have ... great! I welcome the feedback
    - I can choose which feedback is appropriate and holds some merit/significance,
    but I read/listening to it all - it just might offer a completely new perspective
    for future reference.\r\n\r\nDevil's advocate time - if all the comments supported
    your personal likes and preferences would you have closed the thread because you
    'at no time' asked for feedback?\r\n\r\n:)\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">\"MrDuccoDesign\"
    - Graham Meade 2006</a>"
  created: '2006-09-06 15:11:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Paul Petch, I followed the thread. I found your work beautiful and impressive.
    And some of the comments were in bad taste. \r\n\r\nHowever, I think you may have
    misinterpreted a well-intentioned remark, which was not simply a critique of 'personal
    preference'. This was on the question of best leading. The point that one poster
    made on leading is discussed in James Felici's 'Complete Manual of Typography',
    p. 127, under the title \"Assymetrical Leading in Display Type\". Such issues
    are always  debatable, and sometimes unimportant. But it is a legitimate, reasonable
    query.   "
  created: '2006-09-06 16:06:20'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "\"So in the future I\u2019ll keep my work private unless I want a critique.
    \"\r\n\r\nBah. See this is why a showcase forum would be sweet. We could still
    comment and talk about it, we would just know that that forum is more for showing
    off cool work that is already finished and shouldn't be railed on. I can imagine
    how annoying it would be spending $500 on some new business cards or print ads
    ets. and then bringing it here to get railed on. \r\n\r\nMaybe it is better for
    people to post their work and get critiques always, but that is only some people's
    opinion. How much cool work are we not seeing because people don't want critiques?
    \r\n\r\nWhat about if it's a client project. We post up the finished work and
    then get all these comments on how it is bad. Then the client somehow finds the
    thread and gets upset at all the mistakes everyone else sees lol.\r\n\r\nSo critique
    could be more for unfinished works and showcase more for finished works, unless
    you still want critiques on them. Personally I will probably always post in critiques,
    but then I still have a lot to learn. "
  created: '2006-09-06 16:32:48'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "<em>I can imagine how annoying it would be spending $500 on some new business
    cards or print ads ets. and then bringing it here to get railed on.</em>\r\n\r\n\u2022
    But then you wouldn\u2019t make the same mistake again, would you?\r\n\u2022 If
    you were so worried about critique, how \u2018cool\u2019 a work would it really
    be?\r\n\r\nMoreover, it\u2019s not saying someone\u2019s work is crap, it\u2019s
    saying how things could be improved in the future. Nobody\u2019s perfect, right?"
  created: '2006-09-06 16:51:47'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I also don't see the point in a Showcase forum. That seems counter to the
    purpose of this site, which is typographic collaboration. I think if you post
    a design in the Design forum you should be prepared for comments/suggestions.
    Defending your work before a bunch of professionals is good preparation for defending
    it to the client.\r\n\r\nThat said, I too have been dismayed by some of the nastiness
    and personal sniping at times here, and also once posted a thread suggesting comments
    be constructive and considerate rather than just derogatory. I think it's better
    recently but this forum should not be a place for blood feuds.\r\n\r\nThere have
    been episodes of sexism and homophobia here as well, which is really unfortunate.
    Those sorts of comment do NOT belong here and the moderators are very good at
    deleting them when they cross a line.\r\n\r\nI also suggest posting your work
    BEFORE you spend the money getting it printed."
  created: '2006-09-06 17:14:02'
- author:
    name: fallenartist
    picture: 111868
  body: "<em>However, I think you may have misinterpreted a well-intentioned remark,
    which was not simply a critique of \u2018personal preference\u2019. This was on
    the question of best leading. The point that one poster made on leading is discussed
    in Jame Felici\u2019s \u2018Complete Manual of Typography\u2019, p. 127, under
    the title \u201CAssymetrical Leading in Display Type\u201D. Such issues are always
    debatable, and sometimes unimportant. But it is a legitimate, reasonable query.</em>\r\n\r\nUps...
    it seems that was me. Well, I've posted it because I think it's quite important
    in small text forms. And my post was meant to be technical and constructive, not
    personal! :) \r\n\r\nAs for general discussion whether to criticise or not - I
    think we CAN discuss/criticise EVERY work in PUBLIC FORUM space. It's all about
    getting better, isn't it?\r\n \r\n___________\r\nAL\r\nwww.lenart.pl"
  created: '2006-09-06 17:15:05'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I should add that it is my impression that the "critique" forum is specifically
    for typeface design, as opposed to graphic design. I don't frequent that forum,
    so I could be wrong.
  created: '2006-09-06 17:24:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The critque forum is not just for type design.  There is a section for logos
    and another for typography in use.  These two are actually the most popular sections.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-06 17:52:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, a number of people, including myself, suggested during the 'beta'
    phase of the new design that the critique section have fewer sections, and be
    joined with the main list. \r\n\r\nPerhaps if there were one 'type critique' and
    one 'graphic design critique' on the main list of forums, that would be better.
    It might draw more people to these, and that way it would also be clear that if
    you posted there it was for critique. Otherwise not. Still posting only for showing
    completed work, with no question, even to the 'design' section seems not to fit
    a forum setting. That could be done in the 'personal blog' sections--which show
    up in the 'recent postings' list, which I and I think others look at regularly. "
  created: '2006-09-06 18:07:25'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Chris, that's totally not clear on the 'Forums' page - makes it sounds like
    it's fonts only. I never go there so I had no idea there was design work on it.\r\n\r\nI
    think it's important to have distinct forums for graphic design and type design
    as suggested above. "
  created: '2006-09-06 18:14:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "William,\r\n\r\nI was one of the people who made that suggestion as well
    so I heartilly agree.  The Critique venue is just too buried. Since you don't
    see updates of recent posts there, everyone ignores it.\r\n\r\n\r\nHere is a list
    of <a href=\" http://typophile.com/forum/1\">Critique Forum</a> sections which
    are not type design:\r\n\r\nLogos / Corporate ID Design\r\n\r\nMotion / 3d / Experimental\r\n\r\nTypography
    / Composition\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-06 18:15:03'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Yeah, relax... Choose a Sofa, or build your own!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sofa_4855.GIF]\r\n\r\n\r\nSorry
    for hijacking, I'm back from Germany and felt like showing some of my yet clumsy
    travel-work: A font tileset (or a concept of it yet) to create your own type-<a
    href=\"http://typophile.com/node/17136\">Sofa</a> to relax... :)"
  created: '2006-09-06 18:25:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-06 18:34:33'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "This is a design forum. Posting work is going to get you feedback whether
    you want it or not. That's the nature of the beast (both the fact that we are
    all fellow designers and that this is a forum).\r\n\r\nThe key is to just not
    take any of it personally.\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-06 19:45:35'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "just my own personal feelings:\r\n\r\ni have to agree with dan and patty
    in that typophile is meant for discussion. i don't know that this is the right
    place for a \"showcase.\" my feeling is that if you want to showcase your work,
    have a portfolio section on your own website. anything posted to typophile is
    bound to generate comments and criticism (except, of course, type designs up for
    critique). this is what makes typophile interesting. concerning the critique sections,
    it is unfortunate that they are \"buried\" in a lower level of the forums page,
    but i don't think they're lost. Anyone who has taken the time to read the <a href=\"readme\">Forum
    Posting Guidelines</a> should know that there is more than just type designs up
    for critique in those sections. By the same token, if they have read this page,
    they'll know that they should keep a thick skin when posting to typophile. to
    quote the punchcut guys, \"typography is not for the faint of heart.\""
  created: '2006-09-06 19:45:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"except, of course, type designs up for critique\"\r\n\r\n(B^O)\r\n\r\nThat's
    a scream Paul!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-06 19:49:56'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I should add that it is my impression that the \u201Ccritique\u201D forum
    is specifically for typeface design, as opposed to graphic design. I don\u2019t
    frequent that forum, so I could be wrong.\"\r\n\r\nYES! Another vote for raising
    up the critique area to the main level. Seems like a common request."
  created: '2006-09-06 19:50:22'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Anyone who has taken the time to read the Forum Posting Guidelines should
    know\"\r\n\r\nI have a hunch those get read as much as software EULAs and Sears
    Appliance Extended Warranty contracts. ;o)"
  created: '2006-09-06 19:52:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I just was trying to read my Sears extended warranty the other day but I
    must have lost the page that was in English :^P\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-06 19:54:17'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I have a hunch those get read as much as software EULAs and Sears Appliance
    Extended Warranty contracts.</em>\r\n\r\nsad, but true. i'm afraid the same is
    true for the [[FAQs]] section of the wiki as well, but it's always nice to have
    someplace to point the askers of the Freqently Asked Questions."
  created: '2006-09-06 20:00:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">sad, but true. \r\n\r\nOk so what's the case *against* consolidating the
    critiques and putting them on the opening screen of the forums? I only see the
    'pros'. Is there something I don't get? "
  created: '2006-09-06 20:09:30'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>what\u2019s the case *against* consolidating the critiques</em>\r\n\r\ni'm
    guessing it goes something like this: consolidating the critiques will actually
    take work. work = time. typophile is run by volunteers. there are more pressing
    concerns at the moment... but i wouldn't know what exactly doing this would entail."
  created: '2006-09-06 20:38:15'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'If you read Typophile as I read it, ergo checking recent comments, you''d
    not miss any of the new threads. '
  created: '2006-09-06 20:41:35'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: ">YES! Another vote for raising up the critique area to the main level. Seems
    like a common request.\r\n\r\nA \"No\" from me. In my opinion, it has an adequate
    place in the structure of typophile.com\r\n\r\nt."
  created: '2006-09-06 21:06:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">consolidating the critiques will actually take work. \r\n\r\nGood reason.
    However, when stuff is worked on (I assume by the good Christian R.), it looks
    like there is some sentiment for consolidation...\r\n\r\n>checking recent comments\r\n\r\nI
    do that too, but then I'm an addict :) Yes, there is a work-around, but if there
    is a chance to put it up front, that would be a plus. \r\n\r\nAlso a few brief
    words on playing nice above the Formatting guidelines, with a link to your longer
    'read me'. That would get it read more, I'd wager. "
  created: '2006-09-06 21:11:57'
- author:
    name: Mister M
  body: "I think it's great that this topic generated so much attention. Thanks guys!\r\n\r\n<em>Critique
    is not an attack, it\u2019s a contribution</em>\r\n\r\nWell said, but-in my opinion-not
    100% accurate. Because critique can and has become an attack as it did in the
    deleted post.\r\n\r\n<em>if you don\u2019t want feedback (good AND/OR bad) \u2026
    don\u2019t post?</em>\r\n\r\nI also agree with this but how bad does it have to
    get before we cross the line. I don't believe measures should be taken by this
    forum to filter out what we deem offensive. My comment was to elicit personal
    analysis. When I give a critique I always think if what I'm saying really that
    important, that significant. Has it already been said? (though i must admit sometimes
    different posters will submitt the same comment simultaniously) Do my comments
    disrespect the prefrences, likes/dislikes, personal beliefs of the poster? Yes
    there are rules in design and typography, but have we not been taught to learn
    them so that way we may bend, break or even ignore the rules to aid us in our
    creative process? Has enough good things been said about it? And i don't care
    how bad it is, even the time put into posting the design is a good thing.\r\n\r\n<em>I
    also suggest posting your work BEFORE you spend the money getting it printed</em>\r\n\r\nWhy?
    Doesn't experience thru out the years entitle us to follow our gut instincts.
    Besides this project was personal, for his wife. What we say really doesn't matter.
    If his wife loved it, which I'm sure she did, then mission accomplished."
  created: '2006-09-06 21:36:43'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I'd like to chime in as a moderator along with Dan and Paul. \r\n\r\nWe all
    agree that comments are inevitable. I don't think anyone took it personally, the
    critiques I mean, until they evolved from helpful critiquing to hurtful attacking.
    It is one thing to make suggestions, but another to do so in a heartless and cruel
    manner. \r\n\r\nIn addendum: I really just hope people would consider there words
    more carefully. I'd like to think all of us are here to learn and grow and share
    and ... collaborate. Collaboration implies more than one person working together
    for a common goal. This doesn't include being off-handed or rude. You can joke,
    but make sure you use smilies, some of us has thinner skin that others."
  created: '2006-09-06 21:52:34'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I dunno, to me the Critique section works fine as is, if in fact it were
    to follow its description (Typefaces on the chopping block). Maybe the descriptive
    line under Design could be more... descriptive, say \"Comments and feedback on
    design issues\" or something like that. That should then cover those 3 buried
    items (Logos, Motion, Typography) in the Critique section.\r\n\r\nI wouldn't want
    to limit \"Design\" to only critique because some interesting threads have come
    up that don't fall into that category. But it is unclear at first glance where
    to go if you have a design you want feedback on. I'd instinctively go to Design
    based on the taglines."
  created: '2006-09-06 22:17:21'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: I agree with Miss Tiffany. Typophile is, after all, a typographic collaboration
    (having it literally spelled out in the site name helps, too :)
  created: '2006-09-06 22:36:20'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "Paul.\r\nKnow you are not advertising exec, just a warped dig at the breezer
    stuff you have, which is advertising material produced for another company. Personally
    have found breezers to be overpushed to the lowest age group, and are usually
    the last thing to go at the parties I have been at.\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-06 23:30:41'
- author:
    name: ilostmypassword
    picture: 111853
  body: " \r\nC'mon guys. Let's just *group hug* \r\n\r\nPeace :)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n_________________
    \r\n\r\nPaul\r\n\r\nhttp://pauljamesdesign.blogspot.com/index.html"
  created: '2006-09-07 02:07:50'
date: '2006-09-06 04:59:37'
node_type: forum
title: Come on people! RELAX

---
