---
author:
  name: mwebert
  picture: 109732
body: "OK, yesterday I rejected Freight Sans for a project. It's simply beautiful,
  but I believe its narrow word spaces hinder legibility, especially in comparison
  with other humanist sans faces.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/freightsans_3885.gif]<br>\r\n<br>\r\n<br>\r\nThis
  morning I briefly considered using TheSans, until I got a look at that uppercase
  \"Q\" with its disconnected tilde for a tail. Please, Lucas! I absolutely love TheSans,
  but no alternate for that Q?!!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TheSans_6540.gif]<br>\r\n<br>\r\n<br>\r\nSo
  it got me thinking... What common typefaces are \"spoiled\" for you by their quirks?
  And what makes these features deal-breakers?\r\n\r\nThanks in advance,\r\n--Michael."
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Hi Michael, just out of curiosity, What is the project that you couldn't
    set up new H&Js to suit your needs?\r\n\r\nGreat thread. I'm generally against
    typefaces with open bowls in the P and especially in the B. I'll have to go find
    a sample. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: VanEngine
    body: "Yes! The open bowl in the P of Stone Sans is why I hate using it. \r\nOpenings
      in 2-story lowercase g's bug me too."
    created: '2013-06-26 05:48:26'
  created: '2006-09-07 00:21:42'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "You're right, I could have. But we were under a major time pressure and I
    wanted it to work \"right out of the box.\"\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\n------------------------------------------------------"
  created: '2006-09-07 00:42:22'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: Wow, I didn't realize how small the wordspace is on FreightSans. Definitely
    too small for extended reading!
  created: '2006-09-07 00:51:30'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "See, I'm not crazy. Lazy not to have set up custom H&Js, perhaps, but not
    crazy... :-)\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\n------------------------------------------------------"
  created: '2006-09-07 00:53:12'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "The Freight word spaces aren't that small. How hard is it for you to set
    them yourself? It would take about 5 seconds.\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2006-09-07 01:24:31'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "Well, I beg to differ, Kris... set a test sheet of a few common humanist
    faces -- Freight Sans, Syntax, TheSans, Frutiger, Meta, etc. -- at 10/14 with
    no H&J adjustments. I think you'll agree that Freight's default wordspaces make
    it harder to read than a good number of the others. I was resetting a huge, multipage
    document in an old version of InDesign, and it was a \"get-it-out-the-door-NOW\"
    scenario. Guilty as charged.\r\n\r\nI guess the tight default wordspaces are not
    really a deal-breaker, but they got me thinking about this pet peeve topic.\r\n\r\nHope
    that makes more sense,\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\n------------------------------------------------------"
  created: '2006-09-07 01:58:33'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>I wanted it to work \u201Cright out of the box.\u201D<cite>\r\n\r\nSince
    we are living in the world of scaleable type, one could argue that there is only
    one instance where a font will work \"right out of the box\". All other instances
    will require some user modifications, to word space, letterspace, kerning etc.
    It seems that your \"out of the box instance\" and Freight's \"out of the box
    instance\" are two different things. I guess that is going to leave you with an
    awful lot of pet peeves.\r\n\r\nWho has the time?\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2006-09-07 03:14:32'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: Just a suggestion, ever tried <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=verity.search&searchstr=Kievit">Kievit</a>?
  created: '2006-09-07 03:15:53'
- author:
    name: giusto
    picture: 111563
  body: 'Kievit is a great suggestion for out of the box play ... only minimal tweaking
    is required if you want to find god in the details. '
  created: '2006-09-07 03:27:51'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Nice thread idea, Michael. The Thesis Q is something we hear about at FontShop
    at least once a month. I know more than one company that has created and licensed
    their own version of the font with a more reasonable tail.\r\n\r\nAdding to the
    pet peeve pile: @-signs that sit too high. It's amazing how many type designers
    are still plopping the @ circle on the baseline. I assume they haven't broken
    free of the pre-digital era when the symbol was aligned with lining numerals instead
    of lowercase. The more thoughtful type users will see this and baseline shift,
    but it's often overlooked.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/45d4f5d9d9e91aa184f433b62ce7568c_3798.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/6e1ae553e9147898e89ae2404bb864d9_4390.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/7177d7a38b1d43fc34cb4c5356e8dfac_4972.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/840cc85c8de4ee5376f9f062170a9867_6178.png]\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=verity.search&startrow=1&records=20&currpage=1&totalrecords=18&searchby=&searchID=&searchletter=&searchstr=FF+Max&font_categories_checkbox=font_name_search&fontRendererText=too%40high.com\">FF
    Max</a>'s @ is delicious, but still misplaced:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/get_Font_Image-2_4898.php.png]"
  created: '2006-09-07 03:48:12'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Adjusting wordspacing is a snap in Quark. \r\n\r\nI have beefs about nearly
    every Emigre font, which results in my not using them that often. The a in Priori,
    about half the letters in Dalliance, etc.\r\n\r\nToday Sans has the ugliest ampersand
    ever.\r\n\r\nMy biggest beef however is incomplete character sets. I need fractions
    and it drives me crazy when they only include 1/4, 1/2 and 3/4.\r\n\r\nI love
    the Q in TheSans."
  children:
  - author:
      name: mondoB
    body: "Quote: Adjusting wordspacing is a snap in Quark.\r\n\r\nPATTYFAB, could
      you take a moment to walk us through just how to adjust wordspacing in Mac Quark
      7? I've been looking in vain for the right place to click for that. Thanks..."
    created: '2006-09-08 20:13:41'
  created: '2006-09-07 04:30:10'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Actually, Emigre has been pretty good about the fraction matter. Tribute,
    for instance, has a full numerator/denominator numeral set.\r\n\r\nMy hope is
    that with the slew of their new OpenType releases, they do improve the kerning
    table. Maybe then we'll consider sparking another \"Mrs. Eaves for body copy\"
    topic :)\r\n\r\nThe Q in TheSans I have mixed reaction of. I love it, but it's
    not as flexible as the regular Q construction -- not that you would use it that
    much."
  created: '2006-09-07 06:38:01'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: Personally, the absence of an ff ligature would be unforgivable. :^)
  created: '2006-09-07 07:38:12'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "I have considered Goudy Sans for several book designs, but i think the 'A'
    is too silly.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Untitled-1_5476.gif]"
  created: '2006-09-07 10:45:57'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "<cite>@-signs that sit too high.</cite>\r\n\r\nTo me, not just the @ sign,
    but the copyright symbol \xA9, parentheses (), brackets [], and braces {}, as
    well as the slash / and mathematical operators, sit too high in most fonts\u2014especially
    when used with old-style numerals. (In Adobe Caslon, even the hyphen, the en dash,
    and the em dash look too high to me.)\r\n\r\nParentheses, brackets, and braces
    also tend to have too little space \u201Cinside\u201D them. Actually, I find even
    periods and commas too tightly spaced in many fonts\u2014for example, the ubiquitous
    Adobe Garamond Pro (the same goes for many of the kerning pairs, e.g. Ta To Te
    Tu).\r\n\r\nThese are part of the reason why I would want to be allowed (by the
    EULA) to modify the fonts I use.\r\n\r\nIn ITC Mendoza, I didn\u2019t like the
    old-style numerals 1 and 3, so I made my own versions (thought 3 didn't turn out
    that well), along with \u201Ccorrecting\u201D many of the things that I mentioned
    above.\r\n\r\nEDIT: I do understand that those of you who design type from scratch
    might not be too happy about the thought of someone modifying the actual outlines
    of glyphs (esp. when that someone is a beginner like me). But fonts aren't really
    works of art, are they?\r\n\r\nBut to go back to the start of this thread, I think
    the <em>character</em> spacing is too tight in most sans fonts\u2014especially
    the lighter ones. For example, Frutiger Light is much less readable than the normal
    weight (Roman). Sans fonts, of course, have the problem that when there are no
    serifs to tie the characters together, spacing that is loose enough for readability
    tends to look too loose esthetically (so I don't like to use them for extended
    texts). Just my two cents' worth.\r\n\r\nOlli\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-07 11:02:30'
- author:
    name: Termopolium
  body: 'My pet peeve: the silly "I" in Bell Gothic. It''s a serif "I" in an (otherwise
    great) sans serif typeface.'
  children:
  - author:
      name: dumpling
    body: "<blockquote>My pet peeve: the silly \"I\" in Bell Gothic. It's a serif
      \"I\" in an (otherwise great) sans serif typeface.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nKeep
      in mind that Bell Gothic was originally designed for telephone directories.
      Also keep in mind the existence of CamelCase names. Once I came across the name
      \"DiIorio\": that's dee-eye-eye-oh-ar-eye-oh.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I hate that
      \"I\" and \"l\" collide in too many sans-serif typefaces to list.\r\n\r\nAs
      for confusing characters: I hate the \"0\" (zero) as it appears in the modern
      take on oldstyle figures. When I saw \"1950s\" (or something similar) in a book
      once, I parsed it as \"195 os\" before inferring the meaning from the context.\r\n\r\nNote
      to typographers: The outline for a proper oldstyle zero as used in old books
      is a perfect circle (<em>circle</em>, not oval or anything else) inside another
      perfect circle. That's it, that's all."
    created: '2013-07-29 04:01:15'
  created: '2006-09-07 11:25:16'
- author:
    name: Termopolium
  body: Oh, and many common fonts have terrible umlaut characters. Since I'm a Swede
    and my language has some very common vowels with umlauts, this is a biggie. I
    spent a long time looking for a Franklin cut with decent umlauts.
  created: '2006-09-07 11:29:06'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "<cite>My pet peeve: the silly \u201CI\u201D in Bell Gothic</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    too kind of dislike this feature (which is part of Verdana as well) at a gut level--but
    it was done for a good reason, legibility.\r\n\r\nOlli"
  created: '2006-09-07 11:31:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Thermopolium, what are the faults you see in the 'terrible' umlaut characters?
    What are some good ones?
  children:
  - author:
      name: Termopolium
    body: "William Berson: \r\n\r\nMy main gripes are the following. I prefer umlauts
      that harmonize with the dot above the \"i\", they may be a bit smaller but not
      tiny. Others may think differently.\r\n\r\nI dislike:\r\n* fonts where the umlauts
      don't have the same basic shape the dots over the \"i\". For instance, in ITC
      Frankling, with round umlauts and a square \"i\" dot.\r\n* also fonts where
      the umlaut dots/squares are tiny and not of the same proportion as the \"i\"
      dot. Example: Bitstream Franklin.\r\n* fonts where the umlaut dots are placed
      too close together. Like Bitstream Franklin, again.\r\n* Typefaces where the
      umlauts on the capital O sit like little ears almost on the sides. Like Typeshop
      Franklin (simply impossible to use).\r\n* as an example of great umlauts in
      a Franklin, check out the Eisner+Flake cut. Now that's good umlauts and my favorite
      Franklin. \r\n\r\nThat's just off the top of my head. In fact many great cuts
      are ruined by poor umlauts.\r\n\r\nI think it's pretty obvious that Swiss or
      German designers (languages with umlauts) pay more attention to this whereas
      for instance English- or French-speakers often do not."
    created: '2006-09-09 02:25:15'
  created: '2006-09-07 11:40:37'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "My native Finnish, too, has \xE4 and \xF6 in its orthography. I can't name
    any fonts offhand, but for one thing, I remember seeing umlauts that are too small
    (and perhaps sit too low), thus looking like insignificant flyspecks. The umlauted
    version represent different phonemes than a and o, so the umlauts are important.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    T\xE4 and T\xF6 kerning pairs are often too tight.\r\n\r\nOlli"
  created: '2006-09-07 13:12:52'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I like the I in Bell Gothic. Otherwise it just looks like any old sans.\r\n\r\nI
    don't like the R in Gill Sans and truly hate how silly it looks at the bolder
    weights.\r\nDon't like Frutiger's R either. It's a dealbreaker for me in that
    font.\r\n\r\nCaslon's italic is a bit too slanty and skinny for me, not readable.
    \r\n\r\nI wish Seria & Seria Sans had a true italic, the one they have looks indistinguishable
    from the roman."
  created: '2006-09-07 17:18:31'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Martin Majoor designed a <a href="http://www.typotheque.com/articles/my_type_design_philosophy.html">more
    angled Seria Italic</a> but has yet to release it. I'll get on his case.
  created: '2006-09-07 17:30:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Caslon\u2019s italic is a bit too slanty and skinny for me, not readable.\"\r\n\r\nPatty,
    talk to Bill Berkson about this. He is working on a new Caslon and the italic
    is one of his targets.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-07 18:29:11'
- author:
    name: hey
    picture: 111857
  body: "trenbuchet MS is clearly not one of my prefered Fonts, but given the rather
    poor choice of fonts one can use for the web you it need now and then  and after
    all its quite okay as a groteque. But for the the Umlaute (i am from Germany)
    are odd in my eyes: \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/\xF6\xE4\xFC_3824.gif]"
  created: '2006-09-07 19:36:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What makes the umlaute bad and what would  make it proper? The only thing
    I notice, as someone who does not understand German, is that the dots seem a bit
    too far to the left. The resolution above is too low for me to tell if the shape
    is off or if it is just pixelation.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-07 19:43:17'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Chris - I am aware of William's Caslon redesign - he IM'd me about it.\r\n\r\nI
    just can't pay FontBureau prices, especially not for a font I already own in several
    versions.\r\n\r\nI think that Trebuchet umlaut is awful - dots should be closer
    together."
  created: '2006-09-07 19:52:28'
- author:
    name: hey
    picture: 111857
  body: "You are right, the example is not so good. The Dots are a bit to much on
    the left and a bit to high. In small size they seem far to big. Maybe it gets
    clear when you look at it on a website? Just a random example: \r\n\r\nhttp://www.theater-der-gezeiten.de/"
  created: '2006-09-07 19:55:22'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "I jump to the defense of Lucas! (Belatedly!!) I think Thesis is an amazing,
    and well thought out, family. I've never had trouble using it, in either display
    or text settings. It's easy to work with, which is to say it's character spacing
    and it's kerning tables are good and do not require further fine-tuning. It's
    a very well designed face. (family of faces??)\r\n\r\nThough quirky, I love the
    Q. Especially in text. In English, the Q occurs infrequently enough to give bodycopy
    (set in TheSans) more personality than, say, Frutiger. Without overdoing it.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    now that one of my fave faces has properly been defended from you scurvy lot,
    I wholeheartedly agree with Michael's observation that an alternate Q would be
    a good thing.\r\n\r\n(Can't comment on Freight Sans. I've never used it.)"
  created: '2006-09-07 20:22:58'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "The 7 in Adrian Williams' Monkton causes me problems. A lot of my work passes
    over the desks of accountants. And many seem to dislike Monkton's 7 when set in
    tables and charts.\r\n\r\nSo my pet peeve with this face would be *accountants*."
  created: '2006-09-07 20:29:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Are you really saying that in 'p\xFCnklich' at the bottom of the page you
    link to the umlaut is too large? Looks quite small to me (and properly centered).
    Maybe at the top the umlauts on the caps are too big?\r\n\r\nWith screen fonts
    so much is hinting. Could you or other readers of German give examples with fonts
    that are normally outline?\r\n\r\n>I just can\u2019t pay FontBureau prices, especially
    not for a font I already own in several versions.\r\n\r\nWhoa, one tough customer!
    You know sight unseen that it won't be worth buying, even if upon completion it
    has achieved my goal of being far more readable and inviting than any other digital
    Caslon? \r\n\r\nJust checking, Fontbureau's retail prices seem to be about the
    same as fonts in the FontFont catalogue. Mono-Linotype and Adobe are less, the
    smaller European founderies are more."
  children:
  - author:
      name: hey
      picture: 111857
    body: "Another try to show you what I mean: \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/\xF6\xE4\xFC2_3686.gif]"
    created: '2006-09-07 20:49:01'
  created: '2006-09-07 20:34:13'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "William - I have every confidence it will be beautiful, and if I can find
    a good reason to buy it I'll consider it. But when it comes to plunking down my
    own moolah for a font I'm gonna go with something that fills a gap in my already
    large collection of fonts. Fontbureau's fonts are great, and also pretty extensive
    but as a result I'm only gonna buy it if I can swing the whole collection, and
    when you add it up... big bucks. I already have a ton of text faces so nowadays
    I'm more inclined to buy one-off display fonts when I need them for a job. I have
    - and use - Adobe Caslon which has a much more readable ital than 540 (which I
    also have). \r\n\r\nBut I can't wait to see your new Caslon."
  created: '2006-09-07 20:41:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I think that Trebuchet umlaut is awful - dots should be closer together.\"\r\n\r\nThis
    may be a screenfont issue.  Screenfonts have to find a happy place where a 2-pixel
    wide and a 1-pixel wide stroke work well.  This means  small shifts are not possible
    as they are in fonts made for print. This is a similar problem to small type designed
    for use in phone books being enlarged for use as display type.  Sometimes the
    specific intent of the font precludes its use outside of that arena.\r\nI would
    be curious to see if the German speakers here on Typophile can point to some examples
    of very good and bad umlautes in fonts and tell us why this is so. The same is
    true for any diacritic glyph.  I was quite happy to see Oscar Bjarna, an Icelandic
    speaker, comment on glyphs peculiar to his language in a previous thread.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-07 20:53:19'
- author:
    name: hey
    picture: 111857
  body: "IMHO most well known fonts have quite good Umlaute. To name an other typical
    screenfont: Georgia's Umlaute look fine in any size. In my expirience readability
    is increased if the dots-part is a bit smaller then the letter below and placed
    a bit lower then upper-case letters tops. A to great difference in  size and placement
    between the umlaut-dots and the i/j-dot seems odd to me. \r\n\r\nSome examples
    to judge for yourself: \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bsp\xF6\xFC_6708.gif]"
  created: '2006-09-07 21:09:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "'Hey', in the example you just posted I see the effect you wrote about: the
    umlauts do look too big on my screen also.\r\n\r\nAnother issue is whether the
    dot on the i and the umlauts should be the same height. If I'm not mistaken the
    dot on the i is often higher. Looking at Georgia in my post, in 'p\xFCnklich'
    they seem the same height. Surprisingly to me, in Trebuchet in your example, the
    umlauts are bigger and higher than the i dot.\r\n\r\nedit: we cross posted 'Hey'.
    Thanks for the info. I'll look for some examples myself.    "
  created: '2006-09-07 21:11:15'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "An obvious thing, I can't stand faces with not lowercase numerals. Also dumb
    looking lower case \"a\" like in Trebuchet (extra big bowls) or Helv\xE9tica (mannered
    upcur) make me think twice about the face.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-09-07 21:13:59'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: The dreaded old style O (Zero, Zed). Especially in typefaces that aren't monoline.
  created: '2006-09-07 21:17:46'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "The upside-down question mark in Stempel Schneidler. I had to have it redrawn
    for me.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/stempel-schneidler/roman/charmap.html"
  created: '2006-09-07 21:23:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Here are some example of o-umlauts with dotted i's. Do you German speakers
    think that the difference in Galliard's heights is too extreme or OK?\r\n\r\n
    [img:sites/default/files/old-images/umlaut test_5753.png]\r\n\r\nIf I'm not mistaken,
    you never have an i and an umlaut next to each other in German. Is that right?
    What about other languages?\r\n\r\nedit: I just saw your graphic--did you post
    it after the text? The ninth in the list has a considerably higher i dot. Is that
    one Ok to your eyes? Galliard?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: hey
      picture: 111857
    body: "I think that Galliard is just at the limit. I might use it for small amouts
      of text, but certainly not for long texts in german. There are some words with
      i next to an Umlaut (i.e. b\xF6ig) but not many."
    created: '2006-09-07 21:53:14'
  created: '2006-09-07 21:45:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks, Philipp. The reason I ask is that in the original Caslon a high,
    heavy dot on the i and j is part of the 'look' of the face. For my Caslon I have
    to decide what to do. Of course Caslon himself was producing for England and its
    colonies so the umlauts probably weren't an issue. \r\n\r\nOne possibility might
    be an alternate i with a lower dot for setting German language. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: hey
      picture: 111857
    body: "<cite>The reason I ask is that in the original Caslon a high, heavy dot
      on the i and j is part of the \u2018look\u2019 of the face. For my Caslon I
      have to decide what to do. Of course Caslon himself was producing for England
      and its colonies so the umlauts probably weren\u2019t an issue. One possibility
      might be an alternate i with a lower dot for setting German language.</cite>
      \ \r\n\r\nI think in your case i would prefer to keep the typical i-dot in german
      too. There seem to be room to place the Umlaut-dots a bit higher without getting
      them to high. \r\n\r\n<cite>edit: I just saw your graphic\u2014did you post
      it after the text? The ninth in the list has a considerably higher i dot. Is
      that one Ok to your eyes? Galliard?<cite> \r\n\r\nYes I posted it afterwards.
      The ninth is Day Roman and I think here again that the difference is too big.
      Still suitable for small texts though but not for long ones. "
    created: '2006-09-07 22:28:57'
  created: '2006-09-07 22:02:58'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "As far as I'm concerned, Lucas needs little or no defense... :-)\r\n\r\nI
    just wish I had an alternate \"Q\" to work with. To my eyes, everything else...
    and I mean EVERYTHING else... about the entire Thesis family is perfect. I just
    found it unsuitable for a \"Q\"-heavy project.\r\n\r\nOK, onto more pet peeves...\r\n\r\n1)
    The lack of a true italic for Syntax. (Why pair an oblique with a humanist sans?)\r\n2)
    The above-cap-height ascenders & below-baseline descenders of Eidetic Neo Omni
    (Rodrigo might kill me for saying so... I'm one of the people who suggested he
    create a unicase version of Eidetic way back, but unicases don't usually have
    ascenders or descenders...)\r\n3) The too-narrow-for-my-tastes italic of Joanna.\r\n\r\nHappy
    we're back on track after my 30 lashes for H&J laziness... :-)\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\n------------------------------------------------------"
  created: '2006-09-07 22:13:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Michael,\r\n\r\nShhhh!  Don't remind them :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-07 22:20:33'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Thanks, all, for posting images of diereses and i's together and discussing
    them. This is useful information for a type designer, book designer or graphic
    designer, since we all are likely to deal with multilingual texts going into the
    future. Does anyone have comments about the height of accents over capitals? \r\n\r\nIt's
    little things such as have been mentioned here, which are deal-breakers for me
    in purchasing a type family for general use; if I spend a few hundred dollars
    for a tool, I want it to work all the time, as well as it can. As James points
    out, no type works perfectly in every setting, at every size, without some modifications.
    But individual letters shouldn't bother the user. \r\n\r\nThere were problems
    with every humanist sans I knew about, when I started drawing Mundo Sans; the
    obliques in so many (Syntax), irritating spurs and curved terminals (Today, Gill
    Sans), and other things like the narrow oldstyle 5 and unjoined Q in Thesis. Some
    were spaced obviously for display, some had proportions that wouldn't work below
    24 point. I wanted a family that could work at a lot of sizes; Syntax starts to
    look weird at display sizes, as does Gill, and others like Formata look regimented
    and square in text sizes. Gill's weight progression is bizarre; the mismatch of
    weight and contrast between the caps and lowercase always bothers me, as do some
    of the wide caps. Mundo is meant to have a wider range of sizes it performs at,
    without any distracting bits. Unfortunately you can't space a typeface to look
    good at every size; the only typeface I think does this well is Frutiger, and
    some weights are spaced tighter than others. \r\n\r\nYes, I'm very very picky.
    If I hadn't drawn Mundo, I'd probably be using Kievit. "
  created: '2006-09-08 00:11:13'
- author:
    name: hey
    picture: 111857
  body: "<cite>Does anyone have comments about the height of accents over capitals?<cite>\r\n
    \r\nIn a displayfont anything that looks good is fine to me. In continuous text
    I would prefer to keep them low and as flat as it is possible while preseving
    the typical character. If the accent takes too much space it can look realy bad.
    That is the reason why in some languages accens on capitals are optional (i.e.
    in french). "
  created: '2006-09-08 00:45:10'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "Carl, Mundo is downright gorgeous. Nary a peeve to be found.\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\n------------------------------------------------------"
  children:
  - author:
      name: mondoB
    body: "Pet peeves? \r\n--I love old style figures, so I get enraged when Adobe
      converts a family to Open Type and the new version STILL has no old style figures!
      What's the point?\r\n--in some fonts with old style figures, some numbers, like
      the 3 in FF Acanthus, come out like liner figures instead of dipping down demurely
      as they should.\r\n--Hoefler Text used to display so very badly on Mac, but
      that's been corrected in Quark 7, thankfully.\r\n--I know it's churlish to say
      so, but for freelancers who pay for their own fonts, the prices add up to fancy
      money rather quickly! How about a deep discount for lone cowboys, the way books
      are discounted for library purchase?"
    created: '2006-09-08 09:45:41'
  created: '2006-09-08 02:26:38'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Great thread Michael. I agree with what you say about Syntax and Joanna (although
    the Perpetua italic is pretty darn narrow too \u2013 it was just the Gill style).\r\n\r\nThe
    weight progressions in Gill Sans <strong>are</strong> ludicrous, and in a (yet
    unpublished) piece called 'Eric Gill got it wrong' I've written a critique of
    how self-contradictory Gill was in the context of the sans' weights and the 'Essay
    on Typography'. \r\n\r\nTo respond to your initial point, I can still remember
    being hauled out during a class critique many, many years ago, for using overgenerous
    word spacing; therefore I completely support the word spacing arrangement in Freight
    Sans and see no problem with it. I also sympathise with some of what is said in
    the chapter called \"The school of close spacing\" in <a/href=\"http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0712306935?v=glance\">Ari
    Rafaeli's 'Book Typography'.</a>\r\n\r\nOther pet peeves? Most of them have already
    been listed, like the wonky italics in Caslon, but most of all, my peeve would
    be about the complete lack of balance or grace in the lowercase of <a/href=\"http://www.spiekermann.com/iblog/C1109747452/E1829097339/index.html\">Rotis.</a>
    It makes no difference if one is talking about the sans or the serif or the semi
    of either \u2013 the fault is in the construction. The 'e' and 'c' look like they
    are falling over backwards.\r\n\r\nAt the Spiekerblog they are talking about it
    looking OK as signage \u2013 but here in Auckland it is the corporate face of
    the town council and used for a lot of the municipal signage. It looks plain awful
    in every application."
  created: '2006-09-08 08:45:54'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "A bit of a peeve, though more like an unfilled niche:\r\n\r\nI'd love to
    see a beautiful sans serif version of Symbol, or really any good solution for
    typesetting mathematics with a sans.\r\n\r\nTypically, I use Frutiger with MathType,
    but it just isn't that pretty. And with Greek characters, etc., I end up having
    to import from MyriadPro Italic.\r\n\r\nAny suggestions?\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\n------------------------------------------------------"
  children:
  - author:
      name: lotter
    body: "Michael:\r\nYou asked: `... really any good solution for typesetting mathematics
      with a sans.'\r\n\r\nMath typesetting with a sans is quite unusual (at least
      in print --- about the only time I see it is in slide presentations). Some reasons
      for this were discussed in Johannes K\xFCster's  presentation on `Fonts for
      Mathematics' at ATypI 2004. A pdf of that (excellent) presentation is available
      at:\r\n\r\n http://www.typoma.com/publ/20041002-atypi.pdf \r\n\r\nThe only two
      (complete) math sans fonts that I know of are \r\n* HV math (a sans `inspired
      by Helvetica'), and\r\n* Computer Modern Bright (designed by Walter Schmidt),\r\nboth
      marketed by MicroPress: \r\n\r\nhttp://www.micropress-inc.com/fonts.htm\r\n\r\nBoth
      of these come with LaTeX support; I have no idea how difficult it would be for
      you to use them in MathType (but at least they have a complete AMS symbol set,
      which should be adequate for almost all math typesetting).\r\n\r\nGrant  \r\n"
    created: '2006-09-18 12:17:10'
  created: '2006-09-08 12:44:11'
- author:
    name: ultrasparky
    picture: 109750
  body: "Michael, your pet peeve is a daily aggravation for me. I do a lot of intensive
    math and engineering typesetting, and we're forced to pull characters from about
    a dozen different fonts to set everything we need. Rarely do any of the special
    characters mix well with the text fonts (in terms of style, size, or spacing),
    which have almost none of the math characters we regularly use.\r\n\r\nTechnical
    stuff presents specific problems that have caused us to switch typefaces over
    exactly the kind of details everyone is talking about here, since characters so
    often appear in formulas or by themselves, rather than within normal words. If
    the lowercase l looks too much like the uppercase I or the numeral 1, a typeface
    will never work for most of what we publish. Or if the lowercase x looks too much
    like the times sign, etc.\r\n\r\nSo many headaches..."
  created: '2006-09-08 15:03:10'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "My biggest pet peeve with common fonts is:\r\n\r\nIt is nearly impossible
    to know if the design you're working on will become a common font.\r\n\r\nRandy"
  created: '2006-09-08 18:07:48'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Daniel (ultrasparky)\r\n\r\nI see your live in Brooklyn, so do I. If you
    want to put together a brief on what you desire in a math font, I'd be happy to
    discuss it with you. Always looking for a problem that needs to be solved.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2006-09-08 19:03:29'
- author:
    name: ultrasparky
    picture: 109750
  body: James, that's an awesomely nice offer, but I'm a few days away from leaving
    Brooklyn to go to Reading and start working on that very problem (and many others)
    for the next year. Can I seek your advice when I'm a little more deeply immersed
    in my thesis?
  created: '2006-09-08 20:12:28'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Any time Daniel.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2006-09-08 20:33:50'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "A quick suggestion, Daniel & James.\r\n\r\nI almost think that an effective
    software solution for mathematical typesetting has to go hand-in-hand with new
    OpenType fonts that cover tons of bases. The MathType-esque software is useless
    without good, homogeneous font families and the fonts are useless without the
    right software.\r\n\r\nWhatever you do, please hit the ball out of the park. :-)\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\n------------------------------------------------------"
  created: '2006-09-08 20:51:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thermopolium: So the i dot being higher than the umlauts is not a problem
    in your eyes, just the umlauts being too small?'
  created: '2006-09-09 02:55:38'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "The strange \"baskerville\"-g in Postscript-FF Meta, especially if set in
    display-sizes. I was not the only one... The new Meta has an alternative g to
    offer.\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-09 12:25:32'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "William Berson wrote: \"If I\u2019m not mistaken, you never have an i and
    an umlaut next to each other in German. Is that right? What about other languages?\"\r\n\r\nWell,
    yes, in Finnish you can have i and umlaut next to each other, eg. \xF6it\xE4,
    \xE4iti, \xE4im\xE4nk\xE4ki, m\xE4ih\xE4..."
  created: '2006-09-10 16:20:12'
- author:
    name: Wouter Spaak
    picture: 110641
  body: "To the people with problems concerning mathematic placement in technical
    documents;\r\n\r\nwouldn't <a href=\"http://www.latex-project.org/\">LaTeX</a>
    (or any other TeX parser) be a solution? Though it has a steep learning curve,
    I find it great for typesetting anything with a lot of mathematical equations.
    The only big problem would be customising the look of the final document, as they
    usually look like university dictates."
  created: '2006-09-10 19:30:04'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Hey Thomas \u2013 nothing wrong with that FF Meta lowercase 'g' IMHO. It's
    just part of the charm, especially at display sizes. But then I think Michael
    knew, with the original post, that one man's peeve is another man's perk (or indeed,
    that one man's perve is another man's pique!) \u2013 which is why he framed the
    question that way. \r\n\r\nBut then if you're picking holes in Meta you'd probably
    also claim that its punctuation is much too big...\r\n\r\nAs for <em>could you
    take a moment to walk us through just how to adjust wordspacing?</em> \r\n\r\nI
    was trying to figure out how old a version of InDesign Michael must be using in
    order to avoid his 30 lashes for H&J laziness: the following screenshots are from
    InDesign CS and QX6 respectively (I haven't had the chance to look at QX7 yet
    but I would assume you'll find this in the same place)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/wordspace1_5443.png]\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/wordspace2_4039.png]\r\n\r\nIn
    either case the mechanism is essentially the same and the resulting H&J can be
    incorporated into a specific style sheet within minutes \u2013 as Patty said 'it's
    a snap'.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-11 07:45:33'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "ID2 has the same H&J settings... it's not the version that was the problem,
    it was my quick-and-dirty typesetting that day: set size & leading and move on.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, when I have more time, I am in the habit of adjusting H&Js...indeed, it's
    a snap. But very often, I must confess that I simply grab a face and go.\r\n\r\nDoes
    that make me a hack? Perhaps. But I feel that many faces work well in text settings
    without custom H&Js. What does everyone else think? Should faces \"require\" H&J
    adjustments? Do most faces require them anyway, regardless of whether they should?\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\n------------------------------------------------------"
  created: '2006-09-11 13:09:54'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Hey Michael \r\n\r\n<em>Does that make me a hack?</em> well you said it,
    not me. I think you just answered your own question about pet peeves. Mine is
    laziness. Make that 90 lashes ye swab!\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-15 05:48:32'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "Thanks so much for teh great links, Grant. I'll check 'em out.\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\n------------------------------------------------------"
  created: '2006-09-18 13:07:02'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Sorry to keep raggin' on the \"Q\" in Thesis, but I completely agree. There
    should be an alternate, I also am not a big fan of it. But, this leads me to my
    typeface pet peeves.\r\n\r\n1) Too few sans serif typefaces have \"small caps.\"
    When setting copy or used to display many levels of information, this is a necessity
    for me. \r\n\r\nI use Thesis a lot of the time for this reason. Zwo and Meta are
    the only others with small caps I can think of off the top of my head.\r\n\r\n2)
    Too many sans serif typefaces don't have true italics. The sloped roman is simply
    not enough when setting a large amount of body copy.\r\n\r\n3) The number 7 in
    <a href=http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Meno/styles>Meno</a>, too weird, almost
    a deal breaker.\r\n\r\n4) I'd like to see more experimentation in the design of
    serif typefaces. While there are always exceptions, there doesn't seem to be enough
    experimentation in the design of these faces. Classics are beautiful, don't get
    me wrong...but I'd like to see some more modern approaches to serifs. Stormtype,
    Emigre and Font Font seem to be pushing the envelope to me along with a handful
    of smaller foundries.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-18 14:25:07'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: I have one comment how many times do you use certain charaters like a cap
    Q. Give me a break, just look at the most used characters and make decisions based
    on what you really see not imagined. I bet if you took all the characters on this
    thread you would have about a 1% cap Q's and thats because it was mentioned. That
    character might be used less than one tenth of one percent of the time in a document.
  created: '2006-09-18 23:15:07'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "I think Dan's right about this (and it crossed my mind to mention this at
    the initial rag on the Thesis Q). If it was such a problem one might have come
    up with a custom Q (either drawn or set as a compound character) and done a search
    and replace within the text to get rid of the (one or two?) dodgy Thesis Qs actually
    in the text.\r\n\r\nThe only time an idiosyncratic Q caused me a problem was at
    the beginning of my career. The job was done in Queensland, Australia so I should
    have thought about the incidences of Qs in the text <strong>beforehand,</strong>
    but in my na\xEFvety I went ahead and set the whole thing in Bookman. Now there's
    an ugly Q... \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Queensland_3457.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nBut
    it turns out I was the only person who had a problem with it at the time. It still
    makes me shudder to see it."
  created: '2006-09-18 23:42:01'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'The lowercase "g" in both Meta and Meta Serif always bothered me. I''m not
    a big fan of it in Scala neither. '
  created: '2009-01-24 14:24:07'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "And I'd love to see a slimmed down bold weight of Dolly! \r\nProxima Nova's
    \"a\" makes me think twice."
  created: '2009-01-24 14:36:49'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "@frode frank\r\nThe is an alternate a available for Proxima Nova \u2026 \"futura-a
    style\".\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-25 22:43:42'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "poms:\r\n\r\nThe way it slims down towards the stem and how the top of the
    bowl curves down just bugs me. It doesn't look right. Having an alternate doesn't
    really fix my issue, cause I'd wanna use a two story \"a\" in such a beautiful
    face."
  created: '2009-01-25 22:54:37'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "Ok Frode, then Marc Simmonson will loose a potential client. I don't like
    the two storey a either. The a is such an dominant letter that makes it sometimes
    nearly impossible to go with a typeface. I like the a in vista sans, or malaga
    \u2013 others don't. "
  created: '2009-01-26 13:32:26'
- author:
    name: bmcfann
  body: "I like a capital \"R\" that sticks its leg out and tries to trip the next
    letter, like this (Albertina) one:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mcfann_good_r_5924.gif]
    \r\n\r\nThis (Utopia) one is too polite:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mcfann_whimpy_r_4949.gif]\r\nIt
    seems to be saying \"Oh, do you have enough room? How about if I cross my legs?
    Is that better?\"\r\n\r\nBrian\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-01-26 19:04:14'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: "For those still keeping score, the Q's of Luc(as) de Groot's TheSans:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TheSans_Alternate_Q_4899.png]"
  created: '2010-02-07 09:29:18'
- author:
    name: neverblink
    picture: 113022
  body: 'a pet peeve of mine: The almost perfectly geometrically round oldstyle zero
    in Sabon, with no hint of weight distribution.'
  created: '2010-02-07 09:51:05'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Designers sometimes (alright, all to often!) try to make them different and
    quirky for the sake of doing so. It's better to make something good than to make
    something original. Just browse around Dutch Type Library's and Ensched\xE9's
    offerings. It's occurred to me more than once that DTL Documenta and Documenta
    Sans is the only font family I'll ever need. A bit daft, I know, but no one ever
    got fired for using Documenta.\r\n\r\nTake Dederon Serif. It's *actually* advertised
    as a Book font. Are they serious?\r\n\r\nLudwig \xDCbele's Mokka is another example.
    Lately it's become fashionable for some reason to shape the top-most serif of
    the letter \"a\" into a sharp, downward-pointing beak. The reasons for this escape
    me, although it seems like an artful attempt at style. It doesn't aid reading,
    nor does it make text look good. Skolar seems to suffer from the same non-psittacine
    beak disease. Another example of what appears to be artfulness for its own sake
    is the bowl of the letter \"a\" in Mokka."
  created: '2010-02-07 14:16:06'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "I agree with pattyfab 6.Sep.2006 8.30pm\r\n\r\nOften Emigre doesn't style
    link:\r\n\r\nWe don't do style link by default because many users prefer to select
    it themselves or the fonts don't fall into a traditional style. We can do that
    as a *custom job* if you like.  \u2014Tim Starback, January 26, 2010\r\n\r\nI
    think that's crap, especially for mere mortals who use word processing programs.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-07 14:55:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Cool thread.\r\n\r\nPatricia mentioned ampersands - let me elaborate on my
    pet peeve\r\nabout them: the \"E\"+\"t\" style often renders an otherwise great
    font\r\nunusable. Why do some designers insist on being anally historical?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-07 16:17:17'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "\"\xC5\"s with the ring glued to the apex. Like this (Nobel):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nobel_6592.png]\r\n\r\nOr
    this (Benton Sans):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Benton_3433.png]\r\n\r\n...
    and before someone finds out that I just designed such an \"\xC5\" [[http://typophile.com/node/66441|myself]]:
    I've changed it."
  created: '2010-02-07 16:35:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But Sindre, quite often the saving of\r\nvertical space there becomes critical.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-07 16:38:48'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Michael:\r\n\r\nAbout the Q in TheSans.\r\n\r\nStyle for the sake of style.
    In most cases it just doesn't work because what often ends up happening is that
    the offending letter has nothing to do with any of the others. "
  created: '2010-02-07 16:52:15'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Oh yes, I know. And while this is almost acceptable for a display face, it
    looks very clumsy in text settings. I'd say that Benton sans doesn't need this.
    Many Scandinavian newspapers use altered \"\xC5\"s for their headlines, with a
    half circle cut into the top of the \"A\" and the ring then lowered, without touching.
    Like this Swedish crap tabloid:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/expressen_6026.jpg]\r\n\r\n(Yes,
    this is awful, but that's the first example I found.)"
  created: '2010-02-07 16:52:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But you can't ignore style. And the \"Q\" is a <em>great</em>\r\nplace to
    express it because it can't harm much.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-07 16:58:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...Like this Swedish crap tabloid\"\r\n\r\nI think you have defined the
    problem with your description. All tabloids which do the celebrity gottcha thing
    are universally crap. It is just there nature. If their content is from the toilet,
    so is there typography."
  created: '2010-02-07 17:14:56'
- author:
    name: xo
    picture: 119170
  body: "@Satyagraha\r\n\r\nLooking at that tabloid makes my eyes hurt very much."
  created: '2010-02-07 20:09:39'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Er ... of course. My point was this and only this: An \"\xC5\" with the ring
    stuck to the body is so alien looking for us who actually use that letter (remember,
    this is not an \"A\" with a diacritic, but a letter in its own right) that we
    rather cut a half-moon out of the \"A\" part to make room for the ring. And yes,
    quality newspapers too use this solution."
  created: '2010-02-07 20:36:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Those ultra bold headline faces, set with negative leading, could have their
    cap accents knocked out of the letters.\r\nAre there any typefaces that have that
    feature?\r\n\r\nIn Polish, the cap acute accent is sometimes run across the letter."
  created: '2010-02-07 22:03:18'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Nick, there are a few of those in the <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/groups/fancy-diacritics/\">Fancy
    Diacritics Flickr Pool</a>, e.g. <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/hardwig/2451297773/in/pool-fancy-diacritics\">this
    Charlie Brown Umlaut</a> (name credit: Stephen).\r\n\r\nURW did this in their
    \u2018Poster\u2019 versions of heavy display typefaces, like City, Gill Sans Kayo,
    Antique Olive Nord or Odin:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/urw-display_4936.png]\r\nIt\u2019s
    always the same principle. Effective and, in the majority of cases, quite ugly.
    I think that in Gill Sans, it doesn\u2019t look all that bad.\r\nF"
  created: '2010-02-07 23:11:35'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "\"Often Emigre doesn't style link \u2026 I think that's crap, especially
    for mere mortals who use word processing programs.\"\r\n\r\nBut they do have a
    point. What\u2019s good for some is not good for all. Style-linking isn't great
    for Adobe CS users, or those who use a Regular, a Medium, and a Bold for instance.
    The solution \u2014\_inelegant as it may be \u2014 is to offer separate versions
    to please both camps. This is FSI\u2019s goal with <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fontlist/n/fontfonts_in_office_format/\">Office
    FontFonts</a>."
  created: '2010-02-08 06:28:41'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Sindre (satyagraha) -- Question: Is that opinion about the \xC5 being separated
    widespread among readers in the various languages that use this character?\r\n\r\nFor
    instance, I had heard once from a Dane that the preferred form of \xC5 is merged.\r\n\r\nWhen
    designing Whitman Display, I was directed by FB to have the ring merge with the
    A. (Whitman text, on the other hand, has the two separated.) I didn't argue because
    I could find no definitive answer. "
  created: '2010-02-08 13:47:08'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I'm most familiar with Swedish, and I've only heard that \xC5 should be separated.
    But I suspect most people don't really care either way."
  created: '2010-02-08 14:07:57'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "One of my favorite logos is a <a href=\"http://www.ahlens.se/\">Swedish company</a>
    with a combined \xC5.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo_4784.gif]"
  created: '2010-02-08 17:40:22'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "With a combined \xC9 as well, apparently. ;-)\r\n\r\nMy suspicion is that
    Swedes and others have become so used to seeing such stylized combined \xC5 in
    logos and imported typefaces that it wouldn't bother them that much, even in text
    faces."
  created: '2010-02-08 19:41:31'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "That kind of \"\xC5\" is perfectly all right for logos and stuff. (I too
    like the \xC5hl\xE9ns logo). But for text use, I'd say it's no good. I asked several
    people at work today (two journalists, three editors and one typographer). Five
    of them thought the merged versions looked odd or ugly (I showed them Benton Sans
    and Nobel), while one of the editors thought the Nobel \"\xC5\" looked cool, but
    the Benton one looked weird. Neither of them had thought about this before. \r\n\r\nPerhaps
    the Danes are more open to weird \"\xC5\"s because they started using it much
    later than we did (1948 vs. 1917, but some Norwegian writers, among them Henrik
    Ibsen, used it from the 1890s on)."
  created: '2010-02-08 20:35:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: That scarlet A looks like it's ready to hang around Hester Prynne's neck!
  created: '2010-02-08 20:42:46'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "I definately prefer \xC5 unmerged, but would accept embedded one in poster/headline
    use or merged in logos.\r\n\r\nThis is a sample I found some years ago, it's a
    font (I tried to get it ID'd here with no luck). I'd prefer embedding to this
    treatment.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/seniori_6595_5783.jpg]"
  created: '2010-02-10 08:28:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Mili, that looks like small caps. Is that what they did to all the cap diacritic
    glyphs?
  created: '2010-02-10 16:04:18'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Chris, I believe the font is like that. It repeats in all such headlines
    in several issues of the magazine, and there are only \xC4s \xD6s and perhaps
    \xC5s, as it's a Finnish magazine. It would be too much trouble to do it by hand,
    I guess."
  created: '2010-02-11 18:26:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Thanks, Mili. Those short letters just look so apologetic compared to their
    full-sized neighbors. Kind of like Ben Stein standing next to Shaq in all those
    commercials :-)
  created: '2010-02-11 18:30:11'
- author:
    name: bigbill
  body: "\"Evolution\" of Swedish tabloids!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/KULTUR-18s04-ab1-97_192514w_3782.jpg]\r\nAftonbladet,
    1953.\r\n\"fYllde kyrkan\" Great solution!\r\n\"\xD6STERMALM\" is looking rather
    nice (seriously).\r\n\r\n-\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aftonbladet_4897.jpg]\r\nAftonbladet,
    197X? Huge dots.\r\n\r\n-\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1994_3551.jpg]\r\nAftonbladet,1994\r\n\r\n-\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2009_4218.jpg]\r\nAftonbladet,
    2009.\r\nNeeds to be set tighter."
  created: '2010-02-12 10:44:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'm still not seeing any with accents reversed out of the glyph.\r\nSurely
    someone has given it a try?"
  created: '2010-02-12 13:28:56'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I'd guess /\xC4/s (and /\xD6/s?) would look too much like faces that way."
  created: '2010-02-12 13:43:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: As opposed to Mickey Mouse?
  created: '2010-02-12 15:57:46'
- author:
    name: Elias
  body: "I don't have a huge problem with the merged \xC5, and I honestly don't understand
    how merging the ring and the A makes it less a letter in its own right than taking
    an A and placing a ring accent above it. But maybe that's just me being Danish.
    For the record, I know a few people who despise the \xE5 and insist on the old
    spelling, aa.\r\n\r\nTo me, it's a lot more repelling when lowercase \xE6 looks
    like a clash between a and e (example: Bembo), instead of being drawn as one,
    unified letter.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-12 17:06:11'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Nick, Florian has a couple of \xABinverted\xBB diereses in his Flickr stream:\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/hardwig/3682168491/\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/hardwig/3575554309/\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/hardwig/3576358870/\r\n(There
    might be more. Also see: http://www.flickr.com/groups/fancy-diacritics/)"
  created: '2010-02-12 17:16:18'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Well, I have a handful of pet peeves:\r\n\r\n<strong>01</strong>. Kerning
    too loose for digit 1 in Minion.\r\n<strong>02</strong>. Oldstyle 0 is almost
    a circle in many Galarde and Venetian typefaces.\r\n<strong>03</strong>. Oldstyle
    numbers too much out of x-height in some serif fonts.\r\n<strong>04</strong>.
    Small caps with the same height than lowercases in many serif fonts.\r\n<strong>05</strong>.
    Absence of small caps in Utopia italic and Cartier Book italic.\r\n<strong>06</strong>.
    Absence of small caps in the whole Myriad family.\r\n<strong>07</strong>. Absence
    of small caps and alternate numbers in Iowan OldStyle.\r\n<strong>08</strong>.
    Position and size of acute and grave accents over lc in Meta Serif.\r\n<strong>09</strong>.
    Lowercase m is much condensed in Meta Serif.\r\n<strong>10</strong>. Lack of a
    light style for Tisa.\r\n<strong>11</strong>. Terminals very big in a, 2 and 3
    in Greta Serif.\r\n<strong>12</strong>. Lining 5 in Arno and Sabon.\r\n<strong>13</strong>.
    Uppercase U in Bembo.\r\n<strong>14</strong>. Dollar in ITC Caslon.\r\n<strong>15</strong>.
    Question mark in Futura.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-13 01:12:38'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > 07. Absence of small caps and alternate numbers in Iowan OldStyle.</cite>\r\n\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/bitstream/iowan-old-style/small-cap-bt/\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/bitstream/iowan-old-style/roman-bt/characters.html\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/bitstream/iowan-old-style/roman-osf-bt/characters.html\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-13 14:10:35'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Sorry, I did mean the absence of small caps as an OT feature.\r\n\r\nNow
    I see there is an Iowan Pro version which must have proper small caps inside the
    fonts. But strangely its information is incomplete both in MyFonts and in FontShop.
    Tries to show smcp/c2sp preview always return errors and the character set does
    not shows small caps (http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/bitstream/iowan_old_style_bt_pro_roman/).\r\n\r\nDoes
    anybody know if Iowan Pro has small caps and old style figures as an OT feature?
    Is this available for the whole family?\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-13 14:53:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks Nina, that's what I suspected.\r\nPerhaps some of the present wave
    of ultra-blacks also have such a feature."
  created: '2010-02-13 16:10:04'
- author:
    name: j_p_giese
    picture: 110076
  body: "Regarding Freight in it's Sans and Text variants: I, inter alios, have to
    say that they're pretty much unusable for German. The esteemed Mr. Darden decided
    to not design an \xDF for them, but to prove instead that he knows about its ancestry,
    the Antiqua's \u017Fs ligature (an assumedly younger, but still century-old variant
    of the Textura's and the Fraktur's \u017F\u0292 ligature which gave the \xDF one
    of its names, the Eszett). No modern \xDF is provided as an alternate glyph.\r\n\r\nThe
    other Freight family members (Big, Display, Micro) do have an \xDF, but for some
    curious reason, Micro's \xDF changes into \u017Fs in its italic, so Micro falls
    into the unusable-for-German-unless-you-don't-plan-on-using-the-italic category.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eszett_4601.jpg]\r\n<em>Freight
    has been a little overfreighted with\r\nwell-meant typographical fanciness</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    inconsistency alone would make the Freight family an iffy choice for German, even
    if the \u017Fs ligature wasn't completely out of use. While the elderly or typographically
    educated may recognize the \u017Fs as \xDF (and yet trip over each instance),
    the rest will just wonder Whatthefont this is (and/or read it as fs).\r\n\r\nI've
    heard the \xDF being referred to as an \u017Fs ligature, but it's more precisely
    a single letter that evolved from the \u017Fs ligature. Freight illustrates the
    point."
  created: '2010-10-20 14:01:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A good example of the danger in historical pedantism.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-20 14:11:08'
- author:
    name: R.
    picture: 119345
  body: "For the record: The Pro versions of <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/garagefonts/freight-sans-pro/book/characters.html\">Freight
    Sans</a> and <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/garagefonts/freight-text-pro/book/characters.html\">Freight
    Text</a> contain what you would probably consider to be a decent \u2018\xDF\u2019
    glyph."
  created: '2010-10-21 01:37:26'
- author:
    name: j_p_giese
    picture: 110076
  body: "Hey R., thanks for the setting the record straight. I never got aware of
    the Pro versions after I had to axe Freight from my list years ago because of
    the Eszett issue. Before I wrote the above post, I did visit dardenstudio.com,
    but no mention of a Pro version of Freight catched my eye (there's <em>is</em>
    Omnes Pro), so I didn't go over the character set on the site. It seems that Freight
    Pro is now the only Freight there is (Phil's Fonts, though, who sell the font
    licenses, list the fonts expressly as Freight Pro). Anyway, good to know there
    now is a perfectly fine Eszett in Freight Text and Sans (and also in Micro Italic).\r\n\r\nPS:
    Hmm. When I set a sample on dardenstudio.com, the Eszett situation is the same
    as I described in my yesterday's post, except that Freight Display shows an fl
    (sic) ligature instead of an Eszett. Wait a second ... most of the accents or
    umlauts that I'm trying with any of the fonts are more or less messed up ... looks
    like the font sampler thingy is to blame. Oh well, as long as the actual fonts
    work."
  created: '2010-10-21 03:56:56'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"an fl (sic) ligature instead of an Eszett\"</cite>\r\nThat seems
    to be a not-entirely-uncommon encoding (?) issue (see <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/ninastoessinger/4177672362/\">this
    find</a>).\r\n\r\nSpeaking of eszetts, to many Germans Dolly has a serious German-usability
    issue too, because its eszett is too short (it should really reach the height
    of the other ascenders). I myself have only ever been able to use it in Swiss
    contexts, where no eszett was needed.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dolly-eszett_3966.gif]"
  created: '2010-10-21 11:34:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I can see a good reason to make it short (it's heavier\r\nthan anything else
    up top) but that's way too short.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-21 13:54:19'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Yes, it's tempting \u2013 I've been there too. But that there just looks
    wrong."
  created: '2010-10-21 15:21:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It does appear to be intentional.\r\nAt first I thought it was a mistake
    -- matching the eszett to cap height, rather than ascenders.\r\nBut the descender
    is also a lot shorter than other descenders.\r\nPerhaps if it had been designed
    by a German it would be more acceptable :-)"
  created: '2010-10-21 15:32:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You don't have to be German, you just have to listen.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-21 17:43:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It looks odd within the context of the typeface, not the language.\r\nThe
    Souvenir \"g\", for instance, is odd, but not in an English-usability manner,
    because of glyphs like \"y\" which are similarly strange.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/souv_6032.png]\r\n\r\nSo
    in the case of Dolly, it is not a German-usability issue, other than the problem
    character only appearing in German text, because the glyph is clearly recognizable
    as eszett (unlike the Freight glyph mentioned earlier).\r\nAnd the eszett character
    is one that adopts many different forms in the antiqua genre, so German readers
    shouldn't be fazed by a non-standard appearance.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nI always found
    the f and t crossbar of Palatino and Laudatio to be unusually low.\r\nIs that
    related to any German calligraphic traditions, or did I just make that assumption
    because I know the designers are skilled  calligraphers who incidentally hail
    from Germany?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fates_3836.png]"
  created: '2010-10-21 19:33:35'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"it is not a German-usability issue, other than the problem character
    only appearing in German text\"</cite>\r\n?\r\nWhat I meant is: I know a number
    of Germans (it's not just me) who say Dolly is essentially <em>not usable for
    German-language text</em>, because the eszett glyph does not work. And when I
    say does not work, I mean makes readers stumble. Sure it's recognizable when you
    stare at it, but it sticks out when reading, it seems \xABwrong\xBB. \r\nThere
    is such a thing as dysfunctional glyph design.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"And the eszett character
    is one that adopts many different forms in the antiqua genre, so German readers
    shouldn't be fazed by a non-standard appearance\"</cite>\r\nWell that's really
    a little too easy.\r\nLowercase \"g\"s can adopt a number of different forms too,
    but that doesn't give you a wild card to do any odd thing you like, especially
    not if you expect people to actually read it."
  created: '2010-10-21 19:45:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the glyph is clearly recognizable as eszett\r\n\r\nThat's not a display
    face designer talking.\r\n\r\n> German readers shouldn't be fazed by a non-standard
    appearance.\r\n\r\nThat's not a text face designer talking.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-21 19:57:37'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>What I meant is: I know a number of Germans (it's not just me) who
    say Dolly is essentially not usable for German-language text, because the eszett
    glyph does not work.</cite>\r\n\r\nCount me in."
  created: '2010-10-22 09:20:42'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I think most people started mixing questions of actual problems in usability
    and simple taste preferences or dislikes. This does not make sense.\r\nThe [Q]
    of Bookman is perfectly fine. The [Q] in Scala may present problems of immediate
    recognizability, since it\u2018s too detached.\r\nBut as Hrant said, its style
    should be preserved."
  created: '2010-11-01 21:47:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The serifed capital I in Verdana.\r\nI can understand its use in small pixel
    text, to disambiguate I from l and 1, but in all other uses, it looks like a \"wrong
    font\" letter.\r\nEspecially in all-cap settings, e.g.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ikea_5780.png]"
  created: '2010-11-05 22:40:57'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: How about the cap "I" in Bell Gothic?
  created: '2010-11-05 23:03:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "And Griffith Gothic?\r\nI don't mind that so much, because there are other
    strangenesses.\r\n(That's why I didn't mind including a serifed \"I\" in a couple
    of my sans designs.)\r\nBut everything else in Verdana is so orthodox, notwithstanding
    the occasionally J/j, that the \"I\" really stands out.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-06 00:27:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Many designers have become used to the conventional closed-botton binocular
    \"g\", and they assume that what jumps out at a designer at display sizes is the
    same thing as what harms readability among layman at text sides. I don't think
    those are the same at all, and I believe the open-bottom bino form is more natural
    to reading. It's just harder to make well because good precedents are so rare.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-26 06:23:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Nick: \"...everything else in Verdana is so orthodox...\"\r\n\r\nThere is
    a stylistic alt I and small cap alt I in Verdana Pro, though not labeled \"orthodox.\""
  created: '2013-06-26 21:11:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: " >>though not labeled \"orthodox.\"\r\n\r\nperhaps \"reform\", then?"
  created: '2013-06-26 21:25:37'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "> I don't think those are the same at all, and I believe the open-bottom
    bino form is more natural to reading.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure it's <em>more</em> natural
    or not. But I have seen it done very well with a very natural feeling. It's certainly
    more natural in certain cases."
  created: '2013-07-01 14:25:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: 'As with all things, the proof is in the pudding. '
  created: '2013-07-01 15:38:55'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: Proof is never in the pudding. The proof of the pudding is in the tasting.
  created: '2013-07-01 21:46:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "You know, I've never-ever-not-even-once had any difficulty reading a letter
    g with a closed lower loop, nor found any open looped g easier to read. Some of
    the latter I've certainly found distracting because, ironically, they are topologically
    alien to most of what I've spent my life reading.\r\n\r\nWhy not, for that matter,
    declare the s to be the topologically alien one? It's terminals seldom correspond
    to those of the lowercase c, with which one would expect it to share such features.
    Or maybe its the c that it topologically alien. Or maybe its that none of these
    things have any measurable impact on reading."
  created: '2013-07-01 22:19:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I believe the open-bottom bino form is more natural to reading.\"\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    this is simply your own particular take on the issue.  I have never heard of this
    from any other source. Do you have any data?"
  created: '2013-07-01 22:36:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Measurable? Data? Sorry guys, I forgot I was on soilmechanicsophile.com...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-01 22:55:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "n, o, and x I'd keep.  The rest are just trouble. I mean, all the rest of
    Unicode. \r\n\r\nNo... Wait, 0 and 1 are okay too. I'd keep o, n, x, 0 and 1.
    \r\nAnd caps, i used to think H is okay too, except that crossbar is totally ridiculous
    and has less than nothing to do with the O,o,n,x,0 or 1. But I guess if I think
    0 and 0 are okay, O is too. Dotless i too.\r\n\r\nAnd cap I in, but just in sans.
    The rest just don't make any sense. Then in serif fonts, just the o and x. The
    rest are too knarly to design and we should just stack and mix o and x to make
    the other letters. \r\n\r\nNo one would hate any fonts then and it'd probably
    not have any measurable effect on reading for most people as long as the pictures
    are still there?"
  created: '2013-07-02 02:55:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I believe it's more natural because the closed form is topologically too
    alien. The open form harmonizes with other forms better (like the \"s\").\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-02 02:59:08'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: I think that's his way of saying that he likes the open-bottomed |g|.
  created: '2013-07-02 03:55:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually David has previously said he much prefers the closed one, and I
    doubt he would change his mind. But I hope I'm wrong.\r\n\r\nJohn: I will make
    time to properly address your points. It's complicated.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-02 04:02:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "My primary recollection of what I've said previously on the \"some-stencil\"
    issue is that I prefer the bowl to be closed when I make a P. I love a good Baskerville
    as much as the next good shepherd and no blanket should be laid over the issue
    of topology until one is dead, I think. \r\n\r\nLittle white spaces in metal type
    \"scaled\" exactly the way the type designer wanted them too, (at a different
    rate than big white spaces), and thus are resolved for the user. Little white
    spaces in digital type (for most users), scale out of the type designer's control,
    making some-stencil a non-trivial issue to resolve. If a type is only for display,
    it matters less, stencil away, drive a Ford over it, use XP. \r\n\r\nBut I don't
    think some-stencil g's are rare because they're harder to make, so much as they
    are harder to use well. That little inlet at the bottom should NOT sparkle. Stencils
    broaden at small sizes to appear as a white counterpoint to, e.g. a serif... narrow
    as the size increases to remain well integrated to the eye. \r\n\r\nThe harder
    that is made by technology, the fewer of these, Didots, grass scripts and other
    extremely humanistic typographic elements we'll see in a culture going fast forward,
    I think. But rejoice, we have a full alternate explanation of the g-ness of the
    species coming soon. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-02 11:44:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "More soon (gotta finish writing my Granshan talk description first), but
    for now: http://typophile.com/node/19013?page=1\r\nDavid's second and third posts
    there are what I was remembering.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-02 14:48:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: David bowled me over, double, he is a g-ness when it comes to turning a phrase.
  created: '2013-07-02 19:11:09'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>David bowled me over, double, he is a g-ness</blockquote>\r\nThough
    don't you think some of these recent posts get a little loopy?"
  created: '2013-07-02 21:00:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...recent posts get a little loopy?\r\n\r\nJust our way of joining in ;-P\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-02 22:55:20'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "FYI: Underware\u2019s recent library upgrade brought a new eszett for Dolly,
    among other things.\r\nhttp://www.underware.nl/blog/2013/06/behind-the-font-upgrade/"
  created: '2013-07-04 10:34:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's great when a foundry listens to criticism.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-04 14:39:14'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Ah, yes! The new Dolly is a lot better in other respects too. I always thought
    it was a tiny bit too soft and cuddly, now it looks subtly tightened up and more
    grown-up all over. Very good job! \r\n\r\nI'm looking forward to having similar
    feedback. It would be great if someone speaking Livonian or Northern Sami or Azerbaijani
    (or German, for that matter) had opinions on my attempts. A type designer that
    ignores (valid) criticism from users has no future. \r\n  "
  created: '2013-07-04 15:02:16'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Yay, that\u2019s very cool. Thanks Underware!"
  created: '2013-07-19 12:57:14'
- author:
    name: dumpling
  body: "I have a feeling that no matter what you do as a typeface designer is wrong.
    Kind of like this:\r\n[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_miller,_his_son_and_the_donkey]]"
  created: '2013-07-29 04:20:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You just have to be wrong to the right people.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-31 04:49:26'
date: '2006-09-07 00:11:26'
node_type: forum
title: What are your pet peeves about common typefaces?

---
