---
author:
  name: James Scriven
body: "Just doing some research, anyone know who and when designed the wonderful FedEx
  Logo. .. ?\r\n\r\nCheers\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A graphic design agency overly interested\r\nin impressing other graphic
    design agencies.\r\nThey can't however be accused of violating\r\nthe norm in
    this respect...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: James Scriven
    body: I get the first part, im just not sure what you mean? care to elaborate?
    created: '2006-09-07 19:38:59'
  created: '2006-09-07 19:32:25'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FedEx#Operating_units_and_logos
  created: '2006-09-07 19:42:12'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I think the answer you were looking for is Landor.\r\n\r\nThe designer was
    Lindon Leader, he did it inn '94. Info below.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.thesneeze.com/mt-archives/000273.php\r\n\r\nHrant's
    snide and irrelevent comment nonwithstanding, it is a brilliant logo."
  created: '2006-09-07 19:46:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Woe is me, I have so insulted The Lifestyle - whatever shall I do to make
    it up\r\nto Them? What's irrelevant is gazing at one's navel and seeing an arrow
    there.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.manic.com.sg/blog/archives/000232.php\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: ilostmypassword
      picture: 111853
    body: "\r\nHrant... What are you actually trying to say? Your comments are like
      reading William Blakes verse.\r\n_________________ \r\n\r\nPaul"
    created: '2006-09-09 15:07:27'
  created: '2006-09-07 20:30:49'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I don't think you need to \"see\" the arrow for it to be effective. It's
    more classy than the skulls in the ice cubes in old drink ads (much easier to
    spot when you're drunk of course). If Leader wanted the arrow to be obvious he
    would have done something different.\r\n\r\nThat said, what the h**l is wrong
    with designing something that delights other designers? Clearly it's working for
    a more general audience as well. It's a clean, elegant, distinctive logo with
    a subtle surprise. What could be better than that?\r\n\r\nIf you have an arrow
    in your navel I'd say you better see a doctor and fast."
  created: '2006-09-07 20:49:37'
- author:
    name: Stefan H
    picture: 109742
  body: "Patricia,\r\n\r\nWell said. The Fedex logo is brilliant stuff and I don't
    think the arrow is a \"show off\" for colleagues. Rather a thing that happend
    because of the letters used."
  created: '2006-09-07 21:59:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Contradictions, and fallacies. For one thing, please\r\nread the answer to
    \"Did you have to manipulate the\r\nfont in anyway to create a perfect* arrow?\"
    here:\r\nhttp://www.thesneeze.com/mt-archives/000273.php\r\n\r\n* Gotta love them
    Modernists, eh!\r\n\r\nPatricia: What could be better? Simply not fooling ourselves.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-07 22:08:53'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "I like the FedEx logo. Always have, probably always will. I admit that I
    didn't see the arrow at first, but the logo doesn't need the arrow to function.
    Most of its success, in my opinion, is its clarity, distinct & quick read, and
    the way it's used by FedEx. The arrow just adds another nice layer to the whole
    thing that gives it depth. Plus, if the arrow is too overwhelming, it can be a
    liability (pointing backwards, etc.).\r\n\r\nI believe that any shortcomings it
    has are more subtle than that arrow. "
  created: '2006-09-07 22:57:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The problem is neither the logo (which is fine) nor the arrow\r\n(which is
    harmless), it's the underlying, unspoken intent.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Chris Rugen
      picture: 110153
    body: "<em>The problem is neither the logo (which is fine) nor the arrow (which
      is harmless), it\u2019s the underlying, unspoken intent.</em>\r\n\r\nTo, like
      all corporations, pursue shareholder returns to the detriment of all else? I'm
      no fan of that either."
    created: '2006-09-08 00:13:29'
  created: '2006-09-07 23:00:22'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Hrant - what exactly is your problem with graphic design? I'm getting mighty
    tired of your railing on my industry. Could you please explain once and for all
    why you find us so useless? And furthermore, if you find us so insidious, why
    you waste your time at this forum where so many of us lurk?\r\n\r\nResponding
    to the first part of your post - designers manipulate or customize fonts all the
    time when they create logos. It's part of the job."
  created: '2006-09-07 23:06:26'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<strong>deleted</strong>\r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2006-09-07 23:06:44'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: heh heh, I got to read Fredo's comment before it was deleted...
  created: '2006-09-07 23:13:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess that must have been Fredo's \"underlying, unspoken intent\"?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-07 23:20:47'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: On a related note - a friend was designing a logo for an airline for an Arab
    country (can't remember which) and he realized almost too late that there was
    an embedded crucifix between two of the letters (squared off sans lower case s
    and a) and he had to rework the design so as not to offend.
  created: '2006-09-07 23:24:35'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<strong>Patty, You pretty much made my point. \r\n<em> Say something once
    \u2013 why say it again</em>? Fafafafafafaaaa...</strong>"
  created: '2006-09-07 23:27:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Having an element in a logo which does not become evident at first glance
    aids in the branding process. It makes another pocket of memory to associate the
    logo in.  It also causes discussion among those who saw it and those who did not,
    further increasing brand awareness.  There was no trick and no hidden agenda,
    no more than making adjustments to a text face so that it reads better at text
    sizes.  Creating overshoot is also a \"trick\" to \"fool\" the eye--I guess that
    is pretty sinister stuff those damn type designers do. Don't talk about ink traps
    or thinning horizontal strokes either.  Those are really dirty tricks that type
    designers do just to impress each-other.  It is their underlying unspoken intent
    to snicker at readers who are not in the know about such things. There is going
    to be a tell-all expose on 60 Minutes this week where Mike Wallace has a hidden
    camera in Matthew Carter's studio looking for such dirty schemes as he pulled
    off for Ma Bell. Graphic designers are just pikers at this sneaky business ;^{\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-07 23:38:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You are too afraid of seeing your sacred cows for the livestock that they
    are.\r\n\r\nWaste of time? Agreed. ASCII is no match for decades of rich-media
    conditioning.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-08 00:27:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "{Deleted}\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-08 00:45:51'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: zzzzzzzzzzzz.
  created: '2006-09-08 03:57:43'
- author:
    name: ndmike
    picture: 109528
  body: "\"Sacred cows make great hamburgers.\" --Mark Twain\r\n\r\nSeriously, though
    (and to rescue this thread from the Flame War Dustbin), I agree that the FedEx
    logo is pretty genius -- arrow or not. If I remember right from design magazine
    articles of the time, the client specifically wanted to get \"Federal\" out of
    the name, encountering resistance in other countries (especially Latin America).
    The original design included an animation suggestion where a large yellow arrow
    (larger than the space in between the \"e\" and the \"x\" flew in from the left,
    then settled into the space while fading away. It was never used, largely because
    of what Chris said above -- half the time on any mode of transport, it's pointing
    the wrong way.\r\n\r\nFrom a typographic standpoint, I believe the designer said
    he started with Futura, but used the counters from Univers (which seems to have
    taken over as their corporate font, website graphics in Frutiger notwithstanding).\r\n\r\nSee
    all their current branding at once <a href=\"http://www.fedex.com/us/about/today/companies/index.html?link=2\">here</a>.\r\n\r\n(<em>Nota
    bene</em>: A crucifix is a cross with a <em>corpus</em>, an image of the crucified
    Christ, on it. In other words, all crucifixes are crosses, but not all crosses
    are crucifixes. Please pardon my splitting hairs, but it's the name of my order,
    after all.) :-)\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-08 04:53:46'
- author:
    name: Termopolium
  body: Wow, I never noticed the arrow until now. That's brilliant!
  created: '2006-09-08 12:33:19'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: The logo works.
  created: '2006-09-09 04:23:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That tends to happen when I get tired/embarassed of\r\nrepeating myself -
    this is something I've harped on\r\nabout a few times before. The thing is the
    Typophile\r\nsearch function is totally bonkers so I can't dig up\r\nany of it
    to link to... but fortunately my comments\r\non Snog Blog linked above* are still
    there.\r\n\r\n* Here it is again: http://www.manic.com.sg/blog/archives/000232.php
    _\r\n(Just sub \"or\" for \"and\" in \"you either see it and you don\u2019t\"
    please.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-09 15:36:14'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "The arrow isn't what was important about the re-branding, it was the natural
    capitualtion to the direction of the masses. Everybody called them 'Fed Ex' when
    their legal & (& brand) name was 'Federal Expresss'. This discontinuity got in
    the way. It was haming the brand. So it was a good idea to rebrand on that basis
    alone. Their old logo wasn't in tune with the age they were in either. It was
    weak compared to their competion. Making a stonger ID meant that they could capitalize
    on the growing confidence they were enjoying vis a vis their competitors. I think
    Landor did a solid job but that in a way it was a cake walk of a job because the
    job needed to be done so very badly at the time. The fact that the logo is still
    fairly strong is proof that the work they did was solid work. And making their
    own letters was smart. But NIVEA made their own letters too. Making your own letters
    wasn't a new idea. \r\n\r\nTo me the the question is how long until it needs to
    be redone? As it stands it is full of the 70s-80 culural adoption of mid centuruary
    modern ideals. At some point that will seem outdated and quaint. And their recent
    rebranding of Fedex Kinkos is hesitant and weak I think. There is a thread about
    that here on typophile. Find it iof you wish. Search is on the upper right of
    the page. Here's a sample though.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fxks_logo_5415.gif]\r\n\r\nBut
    to Hrant's points ( as best I can make them out. It isn't easy to see your point
    other than 'these guys are show offs & so we should not like them'...) \r\n\r\n->
    <em>Is the arrow for for ad agency buddies?</em> : I don't know - maybe. But I
    don't think it's important anyway. It neither makes nor breaks the ID. It's a
    sideshow; not the main event.\r\n\r\n-> <em>Was the rebranding as a whole for
    other ad agencies as an audience?</em>: No. In fact, no f***ing way. It was inevitable
    and obvious and very very needed for pure and basic business reasons. And put
    in Mr. Leader's place I bet you or I would have done something pretty similar.
    The real core of rebranding has to do with making the name change & changing the
    type. \r\n\r\nThat said, I might have even thought the arrow was fun once I saw
    it. And I probably would not have wanted to make a big deal out of it even if
    I allowed it to emerge in the text. Maybe I am making the classic mistake of seeing
    genius as 'easy' or 'obvious'. But I don't think so. I think it was just solid
    work in the right place & right time.\r\n\r\nFeel free to help me see the light
    if you disagree. But you had better have some compelling arguements!"
  created: '2006-09-09 18:06:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'The Fedex logo appeared to me to have an energy and forward-moving feel to
    it, even before the arrow was pointed out to me. My conclusion is that the presence
    of the arrow does have a subliminal affect even when you are not consciously aware
    of it. Of course the ''vibrating'' colors also contribute. Superb design. '
  created: '2006-09-09 18:36:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Eben, you're fighting the reality that when graphic designers talk about
    the FedEx logo, they always focus on the arrow - in fact when they bring up the
    logo, that's usually why they do so. Think about how that ties in to what I'm
    saying.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-09 21:48:17'
- author:
    name: aaron_carambula
    picture: 109990
  body: "1. Leader was creative director, not necessarily the designer, but that brings
    up issues of credit and work in design. \r\n\r\n2. Yes, when designers talk about
    logos they talk about the concept, the visual tricks, the details, the craft.
    Not only do non-designers not talk about the FedEx arrow, they don't talk about
    logos. Period. If they do, it's a rarity (and maybe spurred by someone seeing
    something like a hidden arrow). So Hrant and Paul Rand would have colored in the
    arrow. What difference would that have made? Well, it couldn't have made their
    business go much better, they have done very well for themselves. It couldn't
    have done a better job of making them look contemporary, as it forced UPS to update
    in order to look relevant (no need to discuss that one). If the logo didn't work
    because the arrow was too hidden, I sure have been fooled. \r\n\r\nChris' argument
    is right on. Besides, if it keeps coming up, how is it a problem?"
  created: '2006-09-09 23:06:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Results are the ripples on the surface of Intent.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-09 23:25:00'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Hrant, you have made my point for me I think - in a way. \r\n\r\nIf graphic
    designers focus on the arrow they are just being themselves, concerned with idiosycratic
    stuff & trivia. We are the same when it comes to fonts... But back to the arrow,
    for the public - the folks who matter for fed ex - the arrow is irrelevant. Or
    very nearly so. \r\n\r\nPut another way, If a bunch of GD want to wank on about
    the arrow - they are just fooling themselves - not me, not you, and not fed ex
    customers. And probaly not FedEx either. \r\n\r\nSo what's the BFD? Why do you
    care about the chatter of the GD? To me, that's the mystery. Maybe you have a
    reason or two. I just figure out what they are."
  created: '2006-09-10 02:06:39'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I almost never post here anymore, but your last comment Hrant is the best
    wording I've seen of something I have known and cherished for many years.\r\n\r\nIntent
    is everything.\r\n\r\nKudos.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-09-10 02:14:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> they are just being themselves\r\n\r\nBut what are the people who put that
    arrow there being?\r\n\r\n> We are the same when it comes to fonts\u2026\r\n\r\nMany
    of us indeed are, like when some type designers insist a font must be chirographic
    to be accepted by the reader. But I personally try not to appreciate only things
    that fulfill my own prophecies.\r\n\r\nOne interesting extension to this parallel
    is the difference between display fonts and text fonts, and that's related to
    my valuation of the proper application of subtlety in design. My essential complaint
    is that the way the arrow ended up being in the FedEx logo is bad design - that's
    all. Opinions like \"the new logo is much better than the old one\" and \"it's
    OK if most people don't notice the arrow\" are completely beside my point. And
    I won't let this go because I'm trying to counterbalance all the \"ohmmm, the
    arrow is divine, ohmmm\" delusion that I constantly run into.\r\n\r\n> they are
    just fooling themselves\r\n\r\n1) Which can influence their own work negatively.\r\n2)
    The people who put such an arrow there are also fooling the client.\r\n\r\n> Why
    do you care about the chatter of the GD?\r\n\r\nThe material side of me cares
    because graphic designers buy fonts, and it's harder to sell them my fonts since
    there's a mismatch in the characterization of useful subtlety. The ideological
    side of me cares because it hates to see deception and delusion, not least of
    the self (screw the client). So I guess I have two reasons.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-10 02:23:42'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>But what are the people who put that arrow there being?</em>\r\n\r\nsubtle,
    which is a very nice thing to be."
  created: '2006-09-10 02:29:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's very nice when it's good design, not when it's self-aggrandizing tokenism.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-10 02:31:23'
- author:
    name: Addison Hall
  body: "Hrant, I have a lot of respect for you, and perhaps I haven't read enough
    of your threads, but I'm lost...\r\n\r\nI'm assuming that you're suggesting that
    the arrow was more than a \"happy accident\" or subtle graphic device to suggest
    motion.\r\n\r\nI'm intrigued, but I don't quite see the point you're trying to
    make."
  created: '2006-09-10 02:33:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually I used to think it was a happy (more like tragicomic) accident,
    and diagnosed it as the pandemic Post-Rationalization Disease, but Gunnar Swanson
    pointed out that you can't get such a clean arrow by luck with any font*, so I
    revised my diagnosis to Overkilled Subtlety Flaunting Disease.\r\n\r\n* Please,
    do read the answer to \"Did you have to manipulate the\r\nfont in anyway to create
    a perfect* arrow?\" in this interview:\r\nhttp://www.thesneeze.com/mt-archives/000273.php\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-10 02:46:15'
- author:
    name: ndmike
    picture: 109528
  body: I don't think that  the "subtle" arrow is being "flaunted" at all -- there's
    been no emphasis in any FedEx advertising that I'm aware of. In fact, while there
    may have been an initial proposal by the designers to show off the arrow, it wasn't
    necessary because the client was happy with getting a clean identity system that
    made them stand out as distinctive from other firms in their field. So, if the
    client doesn't care that there's an arrow in there, why should we? And, for that
    matter, was the designer supposed to then edit the arrow out of the logo, just
    so that the typeforms would return to being "pure"?
  created: '2006-09-10 04:13:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think I'm reaching the limits of the English language (maybe even written
    communication) to dispel this illusion... :-/ But I'm also starting to feel like
    I owe people/Typophile more than cryptic drive-bys, and if I do a good job and
    keep track of this thread I could even simply point to it whenever a \"So guys,
    how cool is the arrow in the FedEx logo!\" crosses my path (assuming the link
    stays live) - the Snog Blog thing is clearly not cutting it.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n>
    I don\u2019t think that the \u201Csubtle\u201D arrow is being \u201Cflaunted\u201D\r\n\r\nNo,
    it's not that the arrow is being flaunted - it's not, and it couldn't be - because
    it's the <cite>subtlety</cite> that's being flaunted. Wanting to self-validate
    graphic design and by the same token appeal to other graphic designers -who are
    however of no concern to the client- is distracting from the ideal.\r\n\r\n> if
    the client doesn\u2019t care that there\u2019s an arrow in there, why should we?\r\n\r\n1)
    What kind of client doesn't care about every detail in its logo? Not the FedEx
    kind.\r\n2) Do you really mean to say that The Customer Is Always Right? I couldn't
    agree less.\r\n\r\nIf the design studio put the arrow in there on purpose (see
    below - and above, twice, for that matter) then one would assume they told the
    client about it. If they didn't tell the client, that just validates my point
    more. So let's assume they did; at that point if the client didn't like the idea,
    they would have asked for it to be removed (in favor of the original letterforms,
    presumably) - they wouldn't have thought \"what the heck, these designer dudes
    really want it in there, let's just humor them\". Chances are they thought (probably
    because that's exactly what they were told during the pitch) what many people
    here have been saying: that hey, it can't hurt, it can only help. I think that
    deep down it does in fact hurt, because the <cite>intent</cite> is misaligned
    with what the client really needs, so the result is necessarily non-ideal. Somewhere,
    there was a better solution, but it would have required the designer to not suffer
    from Overkilled Subtlety Flaunting Disease - you can't get there from here.\r\n\r\nThe
    further the intent is \"off\", the less the results can approach the ideal.\r\n\r\n>
    was the designer supposed to then edit the arrow out of the logo,\r\n> just so
    that the typeforms would return to being \"pure\"?\r\n\r\nThis is getting into
    the mechanics of how design studios operate, and relate to their clients. I know
    little about that, but I do believe there's a lot of variance, so for example
    one studio might work on a bunch of proposals and show the client only a handful
    of them, another might work on a bunch and show them all, another might work on
    only two and show those, etc. And then there's the client culture, which might
    love or hate a given approach.\r\n\r\nBut I would say that ideally there would
    be enough effort on the part of the studio and enough clear, iterative communication
    between the studio and the client that you'd never end up in a position of removing
    a subtle arrow and reverting to original letterforms - you'd have done one with
    the original forms to begin with, and ideally shown that version to the client
    no later than the subtle-arrow one, and in fact alongside a not-too-subtle arrow
    one (because the arrow is a Concept, not a happy accident). But of course the
    real world never works so elegantly.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBut guys, you know what?
    This arrow business really isn't so bad. There are worse things in the graphic
    design field - in fact I think there are worse things in the type design field,
    so please stop thinking that I hate all graphic designers or something - it's
    just that I think some fields, through historical precedent, plain circumstance,
    the pressures put upon it by society and capitalism, or whatnot, are further from
    some form of an ideal than others. Like how very many people think politicians
    are opportunistic low-lifes, and most people -among those who know we even exist-
    think that type designers are harmless idealistic freaks, I'd say that graphic
    designers are somewhere between those two (although much closer to the latter).
    Now <cite>photographers</cite>...  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-10 05:43:23'
- author:
    name: James Scriven
  body: "having started this not knowing what kind of response it would generate I
    thought I might chime in on my new found two cents. . . I look at it at the root
    of the design, whether or not it succeeds. I think we all know it does, second
    its clearly generated a lot of jazz and talk amongst us fellow designers . . .
    so somewhere along the line Leader must of done something somewhat correct beacuse
    he has left an impact. \r\n\r\nHowever can that impact be questioned if it is
    just felt across the design world? It would not be a successful design in that
    case. And to counter that can it succeed as many other designs do, naturally,
    on two levels, one ours, as the designers, and the other to the rest of the peons
    out there who dont look at pretty much everything, the way designers do. Deep
    Breath. . . \r\n\r\nMake any sense?\r\n\r\nWhat did Leader set out to do? not
    sure if ts clear from that interview. Im sure the impact and hubub amongst the
    design world was not really considered when he was immersed in the design process.\r\n\r\nAlright
    feels like I could go on and on, so Ill make it a point to stop. As a typographer,
    my threading quality of text is about as poor as what some might say, the stupid
    arrow in the fedex logo.\r\n\r\nCheers\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-10 06:54:30'
- author:
    name: Addison Hall
  body: "I sort of see your point, Hrant, although I don't believe any harm or deceit
    of any kind was intended. Whether or not a layperson sees the arrow does not change
    the fact that it's still a good logo -- but that added visual does give it a little
    something extra, and the arrow is perfectly appropriate. I think Leader would
    have been foolish not to share the arrow with the client.\r\n\r\nSometimes while
    exploring shapes and letterforms during the process of logo design, one can \"accidentally\"
    discover forms that contribute meaning -- that is the happy accident I was referring
    to. Usually they must be refined to reach full potential, just as Leader did with
    the letterforms.\r\n\r\nI've read all of the links, Hrant, and I still can't help
    but think that all of this is harmless.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-10 15:52:25'
- author:
    name: ndmike
    picture: 109528
  body: "Hrant, thanks for expanding your remarks. With that elucidation, I now see
    your point. \r\n\r\nI'm positive the arrow design was shared with the client (my
    recollections of the animation pitch, and all), and I'm fairly sure -- from FedEx's
    lack of emphasis about it since then -- the client is not eager to make a big
    deal about it. I don't think that is because they are embarrassed by it, just
    that they are more focused on getting their brand out there on boxes, envelopes,
    trucks, buildings, planes, etc. \r\n\r\nIf anything, I think FedEx should be praised
    for their restraint in neither flaunting their cleverness nor succumbing to fad,
    which I don't think can be said for another overnight delivery service (whose
    sins have been widely discussed in these pages). On that note, I wonder how FedEx's
    logo would look if they succumbed to the fads of today? (Apparently, it's already
    <a href=\"http://yh.yayhooray.com/thread/90661/yh-collab:-redesign-famous-logos-in-web-2-0-format?page=1\">been
    decided</a>.)\r\n\r\nAnd, while we're being serious in here, the people have spoken
    and not only see the arrow in the FedEx logo, but also a hidden brie spoon, taco
    and Tony Danza:\r\n<a href=\"http://yh.yayhooray.com/thread/94651/theres-a-hidden-spoon-in-the-fedex-logo?page=1\">http://yh.yayhooray.com/thread/94651/theres-a-hidden-spoon-in-the-fedex-logo?page=1</a>\r\nStrange,
    yes, but I thought it was funny.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2006-09-10 17:08:18'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "\"so please stop thinking that I hate all graphic designers or something\"\r\nhhp\"\r\n\r\nOh,
    I don't know why we would think that?\r\n\r\n\"A graphic design agency overly
    interested\r\nin impressing other graphic design agencies.\r\nThey can\u2019t
    however be accused of violating\r\nthe norm in this respect\u2026\r\nhhp\"\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-11 17:48:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey, every field has its delusions. Just don't shoot the messenger.\r\nIn
    fact buy him a donut. Chocolate old-fashioned, please.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-11 17:54:06'
- author:
    name: James Scriven
  body: Another thought, do we ever see the arrow pulled out of the logo in the commercials?
    Havnt really noticed before...?
  created: '2006-09-11 17:57:17'
- author:
    name: ndmike
    picture: 109528
  body: "<cite>do we ever see the arrow pulled out of the logo in the commercials?</cite>\r\n\r\nNope.
    To my knowledge, its never been done, except in the designers' pitch to the client."
  created: '2006-09-11 18:08:52'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "\"Hey, every field has its delusions.\" hhp\r\n\r\nAs every person does.\r\nThe
    belief that one's own view of reality is the only reality is the most dangerous
    of all delusions. "
  created: '2006-09-11 18:58:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Indeed. And by extension any belief in any reality is delusional (but humans
    are just like that I guess). Reality, Truth, what gives? Like I really don't get
    this \"will set you free\" business at all, coz like I've been a US Citizen since
    the early 90s dude.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-11 19:18:03'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think this thread has ceded ground to Hrant which needn't be - not just
    yet anyway. \r\n\r\nI think that he thinks ( I could be wrong) that the arrow
    is just a token gesture made to be self agrandizing at the expense of the message/client.
    That the arrow is either a) useless or b) negative in it's impact on the design.
    \r\n\r\nI don't think there is any basis for supporting these ideas. So why does
    Hrant think this? A: Maybe he is just utterly type-centric. A sort of type bigot
    if you will. I can't condem him for that if it's the case. Type is pretty great.
    But the point is: the opposite feeling is needed in Graphic Design. Type is there
    to play a role. Sometiomes it's key. Sometimes it ain't. \r\n\r\nI think that
    instead c) the arrow works for the client.  \r\n\r\nI think the arrow is positive
    because when someting catches & holds attention it is working for the logo ( as
    long as the are no negative associations & so on). There are lots of ways of doing
    this. In the case of the FedEx logo attention is caught by the tension between
    the immediate resolution of the letterforms as 'FedEx' and then the <em>potential</em>
    resolution of the arrow. That tension takes time to resolve. So there is more
    eye-time for the logo. More attention. Put another way the arrow plays the role
    of a brain/eye magnet. If you resolve the arrow or not isn't the point because
    it's the tension that holds your eye & so it works. This tension does not dissappear
    when you have 'seen' the arrow either. You still go back & forth from one recognition
    to the other. Sort of like the classic old woman and girl image. Except that in
    the case of the logo the text is clearly dominant whereas in the classic illusion
    they are balanced.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fig3_4998.gif]"
  created: '2006-09-11 19:40:44'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "I\u2019ve seen that picture before, but I can\u2019t see the old woman. I\u2019m
    just too young for that, I guess.\r\n\r\nHrant, I think you\u2019re being just
    a bit too mysterious sometimes.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I don\u2019t think Fedex has lost
    a single customer because of that arrow. I don\u2019t know would they have more
    customers without it. In the end, that\u2019s all they care about."
  created: '2006-09-11 21:39:14'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: The young lady's chin is the old lady's nose.
  created: '2006-09-11 21:52:33'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: Oh, now I see, again. Thanks a lot, Tiffany.
  created: '2006-09-11 21:57:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Maybe he is just utterly type-centric.\r\n\r\nIf I were, I would condemn
    the arrow as reducing the integrity of the \"as-font\" (so to speak) letterforms.
    I don't. A logo is not a font; in fact as many people claim -and I support- ideally
    a logo should not be using canned font-letterforms. The only people who might
    worry about as-font letterform integrity in their logo are type designers (like
    how the large \"The MicroFoundry\" on my new business cards is intentionally <cite>not</cite>
    optimized for display setting - that's good subtle).\r\n\r\nEben, again: My problem
    is only with the genesis of that arrow, in that\r\nI suspect (although I can't
    be sure) that its <cite>subtlety</cite> is an insular, non-primarily-client-beneficial,
    juvenile gimmick.\r\n\r\n> I think you\u2019re being just a bit too mysterious
    sometimes.\r\n\r\nNow <cite>that</cite>, ladies and gentlemen, is a compliment.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-11 22:35:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It is just an ordinary figure-ground relationship, nothing sinister.  Seeing
    the arrow right away or ever is not required to communicate, it just adds to the
    message if you do and creates one cognitive event to imprint in memory.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-11 22:54:50'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "OK, so Leader is messing around with fonts for a new logo (or maybe one of
    his team) which is how most designers start logos. He sees this arrow starting
    to form. Psyched, he works the type until the arrow is more clear. He shows this
    design to his client along with, I'm sure, several other variations using other
    fonts, no arrow, who knows what. He NO DOUBT points the arrow out to his client.
    They play further with ideas, perhaps other colors, maybe try the arrow in yellow
    or chartreuse, whatever, and settle on this. It's subtle, it works. Maybe you
    see the arrow, maybe you don't. If you see it you think \"cool\". It doesn't overpower
    the design or the brand.\r\n\r\nWhat I still fail to see, is where is the malicious
    intent? And why the design doesn't serve the client? Furtheremore, if a logo wins
    an award for its design, what is wrong with that???\r\n\r\nOne can certainly argue
    that the cult of 'branding' is pernicious, but why blame the graphic designer?"
  created: '2006-09-12 01:49:30'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "A friend of mine had this image up in his dorm room, in college. I could
    never look at it without seeing the shadow between her legs as a hand reaching
    up to grab her crotch.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/joan_3529.jpg]"
  created: '2006-09-12 01:53:35'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "OMG there's an arrow in the FedEx logo!!\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic
    Design, Melbourne</a>"
  created: '2006-09-12 02:01:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Freddy Krueger gone kinky.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Linda Cunningham
      picture: 111784
    body: "ROFL, Chris.\r\n\r\nYeah, I saw the arrow early -- I thought it was very
      kewl design and exceptionally subtle.  So who cares if it's subliminal: isn't
      that should be what \"good\" design is all about? Without \"subtle\" design,
      Absolut vodka would be SOL....\r\n\r\nWhat I can't figure out is why hrant (the
      \"h\" is silent, right?) has a problem.  \r\n\r\nLet's face it: clients hire
      us to do this sh*t and it's why we get the (<em>soi disant</em>) big money.
      I know it's fun to go around whining about \"how this is all crap is a bad thing\"
      and \"conspiracy theory\" but it sure gets tiresome. \r\n\r\nGeez, it sounds
      like that looney down at Ground Zero who keeps demanding that Dubya \"release\"
      the \"9/11 Truths\"....\r\n\r\n'Nuff said.\r\n\r\n(Said the woman who used to
      walk down Hudson Street and catch the E train to Queens at the WTC.)\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2006-09-12 03:50:03'
  created: '2006-09-12 02:01:40'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Federalexpress_5281.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/FEDEX2_3654.gif]\r\n\r\nIt
    is obviously an improvement,\r\nany 'Typophile' can see that!"
  created: '2006-09-12 05:24:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That  says it in a nutshell Jem.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-12 12:54:55'
- author:
    name: Duckworth
  body: "Wow! All these arguments over the FedEx logo?\r\n\r\nIt's a good job no-one
    mentioned the UPS redesign! ;)"
  created: '2006-09-13 09:08:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There is a thread on that around somewhere too ;-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-13 12:31:20'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "Paul Rand's design can't be beat. All this web 2.0 stuff s**ts me to tears.\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com\">Graphic Design, Melbourne</a>"
  created: '2006-09-13 13:03:04'
- author:
    name: Duckworth
  body: "Can open... worms everywhere!\r\n\r\n;)"
  created: '2006-09-13 13:42:33'
date: '2006-09-07 19:29:46'
title: Who Designed the Fed Ex logo

---
