---
author:
  name: dberlow
body: "Anybody know who this is?\r\n\r\n[Link removed by moderator.]"
comments:
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Well, he\u2019s dead now."
  created: '2006-09-08 18:52:11'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'David, it is a no-no to post links to sites like that. :^o '
  created: '2006-09-08 19:00:03'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Shouldn't we just delete the whole thread? Popping into these threads only
    to see that the issue we're discussing has been removed seems silly.
  created: '2006-09-08 21:36:35'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: But you posted. ;^)
  created: '2006-09-08 22:19:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Shouldn\u2019t we just delete the whole thread?\r\n\r\nNo, if you let the
    thread itself stay it serves nicely as notice.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: aluminum
      picture: 110335
    body: "\"No, if you let the thread itself stay it serves nicely as notice.\"\r\n\r\nA
      notice of what?\r\n\r\nWell, whatever, clearly these threads become the longest
      even though we're not talking about anything. So, carry on! ;o)"
    created: '2006-09-11 15:13:04'
  created: '2006-09-08 22:59:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Hornets.\r\nDelete thread if could."
  created: '2006-09-09 00:41:35'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Don't worry about it, David. \r\n\r\nHrant is right in that this is a good
    way to let others know where we, Typophile, stand on posting links to pirated
    font sites."
  created: '2006-09-09 00:46:59'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: Weeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee!!!
  created: '2006-09-09 03:22:07'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: "Do you remove Links To AGFA, MONOTYPE, BERTHOLD (Who with the font Standard
    have done a first I know of, Pirate their own font!), BITSTREAM, LINOTYPE, among
    others? FRYS CASLON? Oh, I almost forgot that little known California Company
    too, ADOBE? They have all donned the eye cap numerous times. You refuse to call
    all of the sin, sin. This revisionism is what creates ignorance. Was the link
    to a possible low-life? I cannot say\u2026 but now I can't make up my mind.\r\n\r\nIt
    seems to me the issue is pretty simple, Typophile exists because there is a need
    for a very high end of user. There exists on this plane very much excellent work
    and thought. But the elephant in the room is piracy at all levels of this industry
    and when it starts to get fairly acknowledged it can then be dealt with. If we
    asses blame to Softmaker or Brendel or SSI, then where is the outrage at Bitstream?
    Bitstreams core fonts are highly derrivative and they charged alot of money, not
    $59.99. \r\nDo you all stand behind Bitsreams EULA? Is it original work? I realize
    I am treading on thin ice because Mr. Matthew Carter is among the best, but is
    what Bistream do right, or any less bad than PRIMAFONT? Is Cronos any worse than
    Palazzo original(well yes, but that may be just me!)?\r\n\r\nI guess what I am
    saying is, where is the guidline here? Do you profess to hate all piracy? If so
    then typophile has built a bad foundation and the house will suffer because of
    it.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nThe Truth shall set you free"
  created: '2006-09-09 04:01:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Humans work with thresholds, personal and inconstant.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-09 04:23:26'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: "But hopefully not systematic.\r\n\r\nThe Truth shall set you free"
  created: '2006-09-09 04:26:32'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Actually, freedom sets people free. The truth is nice, too, but it is not
    sufficiently well represented in your rants.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-09-09 06:28:55'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: I protest the way this is being handled. Education is infinitely better than
    censorship.
  created: '2006-09-09 07:12:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "The other thing I'd like to say about this before hoisting my low resolution
    fraction bar and lancing this boil is: this is not The Waitress. These particular
    Pie Rats are outside of the realm of US IP laws. As such, I am outside of their
    law, but before I acquire their fonts, QA them for the localizations they've done
    and...somethin' else, I'd like to know if anyone knows who they are? In the past,
    pressure from other locals has worked, but first, and with all due respect to
    the founders and shakers of this forum, we must talk.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-09 10:45:14'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: "Thomas, please use proof to show I am wrong and am ranting, not making fun
    of my signature line, which is pretty weak. I think you misread passion for ranting
    here.\r\n\r\nThe history of typography is colorful and full of piracy, that is
    the truth. Innovation has been much of the hallmark of piracy (Compugraphic, Bitstream,
    URW and Adobe come to mind) and yeah there are scumbags along the way, but the
    innovation hopefully will shine through. But what if Brendel some how had stumbled
    into either great innovation or art? Would they be discounted by Typophile? And
    what if any of the Big name founderies starts a dismal fall, will they be proped
    up by Typophile, and for how long? \r\n\r\nIf you live in a nice little bubble
    and try to hide from the FACT that every player in the font business, regardless
    of position, has pirated and say \"No piracy here\" what are you really doing?
    Oh make the bad boys go away. It is true that there are street theives and museum
    theives and they may be a different class, but their act is the same. I don't
    think Softmaker would have the audacity to call any pirates \"Originals\" either.
    \r\n\r\nAt one time I had ~1200 fonts for Linotronic 202(including the phantom
    \"SuperFonts\"), 2300 fonts for L-300, the original Adobe type library, and 1000+
    fonts for Filmotype, previous to that my family used VIPs, Diatronic and Hot Metal
    Linotype machines. Yeah that is quite a lot of fonts, time and money invested
    into the industry. I tell you this backround because I have some very intimate
    knowledge of fonts, the font business and typography, which I love. \r\n\r\n\r\nThe
    Truth shall set you free"
  created: '2006-09-09 14:06:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Rodrique, I think you are oversimplifying the history and the current situation
    to a point where misrepresents what is at issue.  \r\n\r\nIf Bitream did their
    own Baskerville and Caslon and Bodoni and these closely resembled earlier versions,
    including Monotype and Linotype, was is piracy or not? This is a debatable issue.
    Part of debate is that the originator was by then long dead, and that the Mono
    and Lino versions were themselves revivals. Of course when we go to Gill Sans,
    the question becomes a bit more difficult. When it comes to Palatino--Book Antiqua,
    that seems to me to go over the line.\r\n\r\nThe case here I believe includes
    digital fonts that are also being marketed with royalties to originator of the
    font. And someone has just copied the digital file and is selling it cut-rate
    or giving it away with no royalties to the originator. To me there is no debate
    here, it is just theft. My opinion, but also the court's opinion in many countries.
    Not being a lawyer, I don't know how many.  "
  created: '2006-09-09 18:56:10'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: "William,  Bitstream used Linotype Fonts as the basis for their own library,
    some say much better than Linotype. \r\n\r\nCase and point Basic Commercial is
    Azkindenz Grotesk, shouldn't Linotype be taken to task by us?  Palazzo Original
    is the digitized version of Palatino (Stempel), which is the only way we can get
    it, alas, from Softmaker. So in this case, who is worse?\r\nAlso, by your standard,
    Adobe is ripping off the designer or Today Sans with Coronos (An Adobe original?),
    right? \r\nI think that URW Nimbus Sans was credited to Max Miedinger instead
    of ripping off helvetica straight out, which to me is more fair.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nThe
    Truth shall set you free"
  created: '2006-09-10 00:37:27'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "What are we saying here? That Myriad is a forgery of Frutiger? Or, at some
    point, are designers simply faced with nowhere to turn for \"innovation\" unless
    they turn letters into something bizarre and unrecognizable?\r\n\r\nAfter a time,
    one simply cannot stray from creating a face that is in some way, derivative.
    Yes, Dederon Serif looks quite a bit like Dolly, and certainly, some of the versions
    of Baskerville out there look nearly identical, but then, what else whould they
    have looked like to begin with?\r\n\r\nTry something. Draw the letter \"B.\" But
    make it legible, somehting fit for reading at smaller point sizes, ideal for long
    tracts of text. Nothing too fancy, but don't make it too plain, either. Chances
    are, you've just created a forgery."
  created: '2006-09-10 01:27:21'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "I was surprised not by Typophiles stance on font theft but I was quite surprised
    by their deletion of the offending link. I think we got off on the wrong track
    here because of the word pirates. Piracy is different than font theft. I assume
    David's use of the word Pirates was in reference to the infamous BitTorrent site.
    BitTorrent \"sharing\" technology and the ethics of that is not some dirty family
    secret that needs to be swept under the rug but rather openly discussed.\r\n\r\n\r\nRodrigue,
    slogans are just a lazy way of thought and are manipulative. Arbeit macht frei,
    for instance.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-09-10 02:08:33'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I was quite surprised by their deletion of the offending link.</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    should not be surprised, on the <a href=\"readme#help\">Read Me</a> page, it states:
    <em>Typophile moderators reserve the right to edit or remove any posts or links
    that they deem inappropriate.</em>\r\nAs moderators, we all agree that links to
    sites where commercial fonts are available to be downloaded for free, fall under
    the category of \"inappropriate\" and will always be removed when found on typophile."
  created: '2006-09-10 02:19:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Like Paul Cutler just wrote elsewhere: \"Intent is everything.\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-10 02:25:30'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: "Gerald, you are too kind to me, really! Did I say slogan or signature? How
    do I know what link? That got pulled. \r\nMy general disgust is that here on a
    forum of the top \"Typophiles\", that piracy is rampant and has been for so long
    and systematic. There are a set of companies who get beat up and others who are
    lauded as \"Untouchable.\" The worst part is that to bring up the idea that the
    \"Top Guns\" are covered in slime then get such a chilling response from these
    forums speaks volumes of why fonts are regarded (and in many cases rightly so)
    as a mere commodity. \r\nIf Adobe, Linotype and other big font companies steal,
    where should the rest of the industry go? So then when designers do not get paid
    for fonts, don't they already know who they are dealing with?\r\n\r\nThe Truth
    shall set you free"
  created: '2006-09-10 02:34:28'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'm not going to bother debating with you. You can believe what you like
    - it's mostly for the benefit of others reading that I'm taking a stand on this.\r\n\r\nI've
    known Robert Slimbach for almost ten years, and he's been my mentor in typeface
    design for the last several years. This may give me a bias, but it also means
    that I know whereof I speak. I do not believe that Robert has imitated or would
    ever deliberately imitate any existing typeface without full credit. When he does
    a revival he is very clear about it.\r\n\r\nIn my 9.5 years at Adobe, the company
    has taken the high road with regards to not doing derivative typeface designs,
    even when there have been very strong business incentives to do otherwise. When
    somebody has suggested doing something of dubious ethicality in this area, standing
    up and objecting has always drawn the endorsement of upper management.\r\n\r\nThe
    last time I had a serious ethical concern about a strategic issue related to type
    at Adobe, I let the appropriate people know, even though the thought occurred
    to me that placing ethics over business might be a \"career-limiting move,\" as
    they say.\r\n\r\nSo what happened? My concerns were forwarded to president and
    COO Shantanu Narayen, and he reportedly said \"gee, the guy's got a point, go
    re-examine that issue\" (or words to that effect). A couple of weeks later a senior
    VP dropped by my office to chat about the problem, essentially to reassure me
    that the issue would be dealt with and not ignored as I had feared. At the end
    of the conversation he basically asked me, by the way, would I be interested in
    a promotion?\r\n\r\nSo it wasn't a career-limiting move, after all. Mostly I felt
    embarrassed that I had seriously underestimated the ethics of the upper management
    of the company.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-09-10 03:18:34'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: "Thomas Phinneys response is exactly what I meant by chilling response to
    bringing up piracy. You may not like my point of view, but can you substantively
    tell me that any of the fonts I have mentioned here were not taken?\r\nA central
    issue here is that the big guys only have to screw up once and it is tough. I
    am not saying in any fashion that All of any font library is a rip-off, but not
    even concedeing that hmmmm some fonts might not be kosher is not right. \r\n\r\n\r\nThe
    Truth shall set you free"
  created: '2006-09-10 03:41:02'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Two quick points -\r\n\r\n1. Revivals - http://www.emigre.com/Editorial.php?sect=2&id=1
    \r\nJohn Downer - doesn't he say it all? \r\n\r\n2. The Internet - http://www
    \r\nDoesn't the Web mean that it would be impossible for a new outfit to build
    a library using the 'traditional method' without a grass-roots opposition from
    typographers and graphic designers, that would render the whole endeavor a waste
    of time?    \r\n\r\nEveryone that's been in this business more than ten years
    has a skeleton or three in the closet, but in general there\u2019s peaceful co-existence,
    and most people can collaborate on projects despite these things in their past.
    \r\n "
  created: '2006-09-10 04:01:05'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Rodrigue\r\n\r\nI suspect that the imitation of typefaces was the nature
    of typeface development right from the get go, the mid-15th century. Exact replication
    became far more feasible with the development of pantograph machine (used in wood
    type) and then the camera and photographic film but during the metal years that
    followed it was more often still a case of modification rather wholesale copying.
    Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery or something like that. The exact
    slogan eludes me. \r\n\r\nIt really was the photofilm/analog computer years that
    the piracy that you are discussing became rampant. And then on to the digital
    years where the effort spent in copying is nearly nil and has led us to this very
    significant problem. \r\n\r\nStill I would suggest that even though the established
    commercial type manufacturers may have different names of otherwise identical
    or near identical typefaces, they may very well have licensed the right to do
    that. They really can't afford the legal costs that could result if they do not
    do so. Though I'm sure examples can be brought up that would prove specifically
    otherwise in certain instances. I know that Adobe spent (pre-2000, I've not had
    any business contact with them since) an inordinate amount of time just checking
    to verify that no one had ever even used the name of the typeface before; I kind
    of doubt that they would in any way risk just copying a competitor's design.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-09-10 04:46:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The Emigre article is good, but not good enough.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-10 04:47:01'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I didn't remove the link to keep you, David, from find out who the pirates
    are, so much as removing it to keep others from downloading the fonts. I wish
    we did have a formal way to protect and serve, but the most I can do is remove
    the link. \r\n\r\nApololgies, but I don't have time to justify an answer to the
    other questions."
  created: '2006-09-10 06:13:33'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Rodrigue,\r\n\r\nI am telling you now that you are wrong about Adobe, substantively.
    \r\n\r\nYou are parroting some bile that someone else spewed re: Cronos being
    derivative of Today. Don't believe everything you see on the internet. That writer,
    and you, are ignoring a pretty big elephant. I challenge you to get both typefaces,
    print them out, and compare them. Even better, I suggest you overlay them in Illustrator,
    or FontLab. You should finally notice that they are not similar in construction,
    finish, proportion, spacing, or any other detail. They have in common that they
    are humanist sans designs. That is all. In that sense, either one of them could
    be said to be \"suspiciously similar\" to Gill, Syntax, Agenda, Bliss, Kievit.....
    the list goes on. It's a category of typeface, there's no piracy, there's not
    even a derivation. One has only to look clearly to see this. As others have pointed
    out, the very idea that Robert Slimbach would even be bothered to rip off another
    design is insane. He has far too much skill and talent for that. This campaign
    was devised as a retaliation and is not well-motivated. Let it go. pursuing that
    topic weakens your argument.\r\n\r\nYour complaint about Adobe seems founded on
    this alone. From what I know of Adobe (and I've worked in the type department
    there), their library is one of the most legal, legitimate, and completely licensed
    ones in the world. You're way off base.\r\n\r\nYour point is well taken; there
    has been piracy in the font business since it was a business. We all know that.
    I think Tiffany and Paul made it abundantly clear that Typophile has always had
    a policy of not providing URLs to sites that seem illegitimate or suspicious.
    If they misjudge a site, then surely it will not stay hidden, and there's no harm
    done. Typophile's policies aren't powerful enough to globally condone or hinder
    piracy, or the discussion of it. It doesn't censor the owner of the site, it doesn't
    restrict anyone from voicing their opinion, and it doesn't prevent you from finding
    out about questionable sites if you wish.\r\n\r\nYou have made an uninformed generalization.
    Yes, piracy is rampant. No, every single type company is not wallowing in pure
    pirate gold. Look deeper."
  created: '2006-09-10 06:17:11'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"Thomas Phinneys response is exactly what I meant by chilling response to
    bringing up piracy.\"\r\n\r\nIf you're going to use inappropriate loaded rhetoric,
    can you at least use it properly? That's \"chilling effect,\" not \"chilling response.\"
    Please explain how you have been harmed by my statements.  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chilling_effect\r\n\r\n\"You
    may not like my point of view, but can you substantively tell me that any of the
    fonts I have mentioned here were not taken?\"\r\n\r\nI have no idea what \"substantively
    tell me\" even means. And of course it's nigh-impossible to prove a negative.
    But if you're going to make the accusations of wrongdoing, the burden of proof
    is on you.\r\n\r\n(Edit/note: I have only written about Cronos and other designs
    by Robert Slimbach, and on the side about Adobe type in general. Like Carl, I
    do not dispute that there has been a lot of piracy in the type industry.)\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-10 10:10:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Pfeh. Allowed myself to be dragged into the debate. Note to self: must continue
    to ignore trolls. Not worth the time and effort, just makes people think their
    silliness is worth taking seriously.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-09-10 10:16:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"remove Links To AGFA, MONOTYPE, BERTHOLD, BITSTREAM, LINOTYPE, among others?\r\n\r\nOh
    Geeze, a typophile has broken out. The above listed companies know better than
    to put trademarked and copyrighted software on their sites. The unmentionables
    have graciously asked for a list of the infringements. I only asked this list
    to see if it was likely that they might respond favorably to a compadre, or if
    they needed a lawyer. That is usually the first step for anyone who believes that
    hiring a lawyer means you've already lost. If this basic research cannot be done
    here, it can be elsewhere, no big deal. And thanks for all. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2006-09-10 12:30:49'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: "I am willing to accept looking at both fonts (Today Sans and Cronos) in FontStudio
    and if my assesment is off I will gladly say so. I think to I will look at Book
    Antiqua and Palatino (Adobe) as well, among others.\r\nActually, I think it could
    at least make a darned good article.\r\nThomas, I don't take your personal put
    downs to heart, but you may want to stop looking in the mirror. Perhaps you should
    take yourself a little less serious.\r\n\r\nRodi\r\nThe Truth shall set you free"
  created: '2006-09-10 13:36:59'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Rodrigue:\r\n\r\nYou made your point several posts ago. Now you're getting
    personal. There is a galaxy of difference between bringing to light a legitimate
    issue, and taking shots at Mr. Phinney. I think crossgrove had the last word on
    this issue, anyway. Besides, the moral aspect of typeface forgery, and forgery
    in a historical context for that matter, is in fact quite blurry. Throw in the
    *fact* that those you accuse today have all the legal dispensation they need to
    continue operating as they have, and you'll quickly find that at the very least,
    your line of argument is more difficult to pursue than you had thought.   \r\n\r\nWhen
    I'm among friends, I drop the argument when I see it becoming personal. Tact is
    everything. Exercising it in this case means that the comfort and friendship of
    otherwise good people is more important to you than a line of argument."
  created: '2006-09-10 14:25:49'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: "Palantine,\r\nHe called me a troll, and I responded much more friendly than
    his barb.\r\nThe Truth shall set you free"
  created: '2006-09-10 14:30:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thomas, I think you're being a little bit too defensive.\r\n\r\nCarl: talent
    and skill are great, but no substitute for a possible lack of original thought
    (and the possibly resultant inferiority complex, which could trigger unethical
    action). Warnock, however, is a valid counter-argument.\r\n\r\n> If this basic
    research cannot be done here, it can be elsewhere\r\n\r\nTypophile once proposed
    a \"trusted member\" scheme/subforum - if that ever comes about it would be THE
    place for this sort of thing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-10 17:08:33'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"possible lack of original thought (and the possibly resultant inferiority
    complex, which could trigger unethical action)\"\r\n\r\nThis is still ignoring
    the elephant though. And paranoid."
  created: '2006-09-10 17:31:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The elephant: I've done the comparison; matching control points is one thing,
    not giving credit to a notable source of inspiration is another (and different
    people will find one or the other more offensive). But anyway I wasn't alluding
    to one typeface but an \u0153uvre*; and \"paranoid\" can't be the right word here
    - for one thing, I'm personally much more concerned with progressive cultural
    contribution than I am with minor plagiarism (of which virtually nobody is innocent).\r\n\r\n*
    It remains, for example, that to me the best face in the entire Adobe Originals
    collection -and probably the entire Adobe library- is Jamra's Kinesis-MM.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-10 17:49:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Jamra\u2019s Kinesis\r\n\r\n...which as we <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/27710\">learned
    from Jamra at TypeCon</a> is one of the most chirographically-inspired recent
    fonts. So you, Hrant, will no doubt instantly renounce one of your long held pet
    hates... :) "
  created: '2006-09-10 18:19:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I also love Ex Ponto - so much so that I bought it.\r\nAnd I also love lard,
    but I don't pretend it's a good staple food.\r\n\r\nIf you think I hate chirography,
    you're reading me incorrectly.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-10 18:38:45'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Hrant\r\n\r\nWouldn't have thought you had an interest in Ex Ponto. Back
    in the PostScript Type 1 days Bieler Press was an occasional beta site for Adobe
    and I did some of the beta testing (not much) on Ex Ponto and the really cool
    thing was that when it was all said and done Jovica Veljovic sent me the specimen
    book and very graciously (and I might add beautifully) signed it over as a nice
    personal touch. \r\n\r\nAlas, those days are long gone. No more print specimen
    books, no more MM, no more of the personal touch.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-09-10 19:49:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Alas, those days are long gone. \r\n\r\nAre you seriously talking about
    Adobe!? Or someone else?\r\n\r\n>No more print specimen books, \r\n\r\nGaramond
    Premier Pro book\r\n\r\n>no more MM, \r\n\r\nAlive and well in font production
    tools\r\n\r\n>no more of the personal touch.\r\n\r\nEver heard of Tom Phinney?
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-10 20:21:09'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Nice well put together response.\r\n\r\nWell. . .\r\n\r\nSeriously.\r\n\r\nIs
    there an actual printed specimen book available or just a PDF?\r\n\r\nMM doesn't
    do the end user any good as a component of FontLab.\r\n\r\nDoes Tom send nice
    hand written notes to folks like Carol Trombley does?\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-09-10 22:44:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Is there an actual printed specimen book available or just a PDF?\r\n\r\nMy
    understanding is that the book is only available in print due to some permissions
    issue with images used in the book.\r\n\r\n>MM doesn\u2019t do the end user any
    good as a component of FontLab.\r\n\r\nWell, it helps type designers make extended
    families, something graphic designers want. That's good for end users, of type
    and of the products produced with type. \r\n\r\n>Does Tom send nice hand written
    notes to folks like Carol Trombley does?\r\n\r\nAl Gore recently invented the
    Internet - rendering hand written notes largely obsolete. My guess is that Tom
    sends seventy to one hundred times more hand-typed emails than Carol sent hand
    written notes.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-11 00:00:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I am willing to accept looking at both fonts (Today Sans and Cronos)
    in FontStudio and if my assesment is off I will gladly say so. I think to I will
    look at Book Antiqua and Palatino (Adobe) as well, among others.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    <em>have</em> looked at Today Sans and Cronos side-by-side and overlaid and what
    they have in common is a similarity of weight and proportion, such that when you
    print a page of text at, say, 10pt in Today Sans and the same page of text in
    Cronos at the same size, the <em>overall</em> appearence of the two pages is very
    similar. But if you compare individual letterforms, and especially compare the
    fonts at larger sizes, what is most apparent are the many differences. Apart from
    anything else, the gentle detailing of Cronos is such that I've always considered
    it primarily a display face, while Today Sans is better suited to smaller sizes
    because it is not so soft. As I understand it, Adobe listed Today Sans as 'prior
    art' in their design patent application, i.e. as an acknowledged design in a similar
    style along with, I presume, other humanist sans such as Gill Sans (to which Today
    Sans bears a stronger resemblance than Cronos). My conclusion was that Cronos
    had very similar proportions to Today Sans and clearly belonged to the same idiom,
    but was not a clone or a pirated copy. It belongs to the class of types -- and
    there are many -- that have been developed to competetively exploit a market that
    has already been identified or established by another company. I think Myriad
    is another such example. This isn't limited to type design: it occurs in lots
    of different kinds of products from kitchenware to automobiles (products in which
    intellectual property protection is very much stronger than for type design, so
    in which the concept of what constitutes illegitimate copying and what constitutes
    legitimate competetive products is much more clearly defined -- one of the problems
    with the lack of good IP protection in type is that private opinion and interpretation
    runs rampant, with no legal and ethical standard against which to be measured).
    I think there often is an 'unpleasant taste' in the development of some competetive
    products, which, even if not illegal or strictly unethical, offend our sense of
    the respect that is due to the product that first establishes the market. So,
    for example, I am less impressed by the various automobiles clearly influenced
    by the design of the Audi TT than I am by the Audi TT itself, even though none
    of them are copies per se and some of them are interesting cars in their own right.
    For those who know and care about such things, the obvious thing to do is to vote
    with one's chequebook or credit card and purchase the product that you respect
    more.\r\n\r\nRegarding Book Antiqua, this is a clone of Palatino, and no one claims
    otherwise. Adobe's Palatino is licensed from Linotype, perfectly legitimately.\r\n\r\nWhat
    Bitstream did was a Very Very Bad Thing that continues to be a bone of contention
    in the type community, even though Bitstream and Linotype signed a deal in 2003
    that ostensibly legitimises the Bitstream clones of Linotype fonts.\r\n\r\nThe
    truth will indeed set you free, but first you have to seek it, for the sake of
    truth and freedom, not as a stick to beat other people with."
  created: '2006-09-11 00:41:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the book is only available in print\r\n\r\nI got a copy of the new Garamond
    with my InDesign.\r\nAm I entitled to the booklet?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-11 00:59:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Am I entitled to the booklet?\r\n\r\nNo justice ;-) there were copies in
    the TypeCon goody bags. "
  created: '2006-09-11 01:18:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Huds:\r\n\"What Bitstream did was a Very Very Bad Thing...\"\r\n\r\n\"The
    truth will indeed set you free, but first you have to seek it,\""
  created: '2006-09-11 12:44:33'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Proof that Adobe is a pirate.\r\n\r\nThey use exactly the same 26 letters
    that Ottmar put onto the Linotype over 100 years ago. Why, that must be copying.\r\n\r\n:)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-11 15:18:18'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I didn\u2019t remove the link to keep you, David, from find out who the
    pirates are, so much as removing it to keep others from downloading the fonts.\"\r\n\r\nBut
    that's an misguided reason to censor.\r\n\r\n2 seconds on google can find a copy
    of nearly every font out there. People aren't stupid. I highly doubt there are
    people hitting REFRESH on typophile waiting for that one thread that links to
    a questionable site so they can rush off and download all the fonts. \r\n\r\nIt
    smells of paranoia more than anything. \r\n\r\nSeems to me that a better way to
    educate folks is to leave the link, then explain why the site in question is wrong.\r\n\r\nBut,
    that's just me.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-11 15:20:50'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "On the other hand, every link to a site takes it higher on Google\u2019s
    results."
  created: '2006-09-11 15:40:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">very, very bad ...\r\n>first you have to seek it ...\r\n\r\nIs the Bitstream
    vs Linotype story told anywhere? Can it be without the tellers putting themselves
    in legal jeopardy? \r\n\r\nWhat I have read on the ever-reliable internet: \r\n\r\nBitstream,
    the first all-digital font company, was founded by Mike Parker and Matthew Carter.
    Both were British ex-pats in the US and both had worked at Linotype, Parker as
    Director of Typography. \r\n\r\nParker and Carter are unlikely-looking as a pair
    to be cast in the role of pirates, as both have a strong aura of 'English gentleman'
    about them.\r\n\r\nI haven't read any clear story, but what I have gathered from
    earlier comments on Typophile is that the 'unpleasantness' has something to do
    with Bitstream trying to work out an agreement with their former company, and
    it falling through. Parker left Bitstream in 87 and Carter in 91. In 2003 Bitstream
    acquired Linotype licenses for their designs that resembled Lino fonts, and at
    the same time they concluded an agreement to sell Lino fonts on their site MyFonts.
    \ "
  created: '2006-09-11 16:13:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Guys, I know I need to get more sleep, but not at 9 in the morning, please.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-11 17:42:11'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Darrel, the point is that if people want to get copies of fonts illegally
    that is there problem. Typophile does not condone font sharing. Full stop. \r\n\r\nIn
    regards to people being stupid, well I know I'm not stupid enough to assume that
    other people are stupid, but if they are looking for copies of fonts for free
    I think that is debatable. ;^}"
  created: '2006-09-11 20:14:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Typophile does not condone font sharing. Full stop.\"\r\n\r\nI don't think
    anyone assumes they are. Can't one discuss a topic without condoning it?\r\n\r\n\"In
    regards to people being stupid\"\r\n\r\nI was saying people AREN'T stupid.\r\n\r\nBut,
    if they are, then no harm, as stupid people aren't going to be much of a threat
    to the type industry anyways. ;o)"
  created: '2006-09-11 22:16:41'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "One may discuss a topic without condoning it. I don't think I've said that
    one cannot. I have said that one cannot post a link (or an obvious hint) toward
    finding an illegal copy.\r\n\r\nYes. I mean \"aren't\" as well. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-11 22:21:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/long-john-silver_3930.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-11 23:46:02'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "1) Chris, you got it wrong, matey: it's September 19th, not September 11th.
    Check with sii. He knows.\r\n\r\n2) Tiffany: you have stated Typophile's position
    about linking to the Evil People a couple or three times in this thread. Eventually
    we'll get it. :-)\r\n\r\n3) Darrel: I agree with your last bunch of postings.
    To be an ostrich is NOT a good thing. How do we get Typophile to get their head
    out of the sand?\r\n\r\nI first thought this thread was distined to an early (watery)
    grave, arrrrr. All we had was a question from David and a deleted link. Now we've
    got two pages of discussion. That makes all readers more aware of piracy than
    we were a week ago. "
  created: '2006-09-12 06:28:40'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"How do we get Typophile to get their head out of the sand?\"\r\n\r\nYou
    don't. You let it go. Bigger battles and all that.. ;o)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-12 06:36:24'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Tiffany\r\n\r\nThere are other concerns as well. BitTorrent is a legitimate
    transfer technology. In the wrong neighborhood though your computer could very
    quickly be \"compromised.\" So it is just not a matter of saying don't do it,
    this is a bad thing, but more don't do it, you could get hurt.\r\n\r\nYeah, this
    should be talked about before someone thinks downloading (sharing) the entire
    Adobe OT collection is a good thing and there are no consequences other than the
    legal, if caught (in California, $10,000 and a prison term).\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-09-12 06:37:04'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: Censorship only exists when one believes that access to certain information
    is dangerous or that a particular population - namely, professional graphic designers,
    type designers and typesetters - are not mature enough to use or view it responsibly.
    I cannot see any other rational reason for it. Emotional reasons and/or religious
    reasons, sure; but not rational reasons.
  created: '2006-09-12 07:09:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"it\u2019s September 19th, not September 11th\"\r\n\r\nKen, can I postdate
    that check?\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-12 12:51:37'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "<em>Ken, can I postdate that check?</em>\r\n\r\nSure! (that's the one you
    are sending me, right??)"
  created: '2006-09-12 14:20:34'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "(Moderator hat slightly removed just in case I say something not nice.)\r\n\r\nLook,
    Typophile is a public forum. Based on that I don't know who is roaming the halls
    here. If I knew without a shadow of a doubt that everyone here would do the responsible
    thing then I would've left the original link posted by David and perhaps we could've
    helped him find out who the \"evil people\" were. However, I don't know that everyone
    can be trusted. The regulars here, more than likely, but the roamers, no ... sorry.\r\n\r\nBit
    Torrent is a great thing. Public file sharing is a great thing. It is how they
    are being used that is not so great. \r\n\r\nI'll say it again for the peanut
    gallery. Typophile does not condone any form of illegal file sharing. Be it a
    link to a torrent, a link to another website, or an overt hint to either. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-12 17:47:44'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nThere have been many precedents of people posting links to
    downloads of stolen fonts (for free). It's always been our policy to delete the
    link and leave the thread as evidence of our collective zero tolerance for those
    sites. I realize that what you're doing is fundamentally different, but it still
    would let other's (including Google and it's cache) perpetuate the link.\r\n\r\nIs
    there another way to share this information without sharing a URL? Maybe not,
    but I'm open to trying.\r\n\r\n__\r\nRoderigue and others,\r\n\r\nHas this thread
    <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jump_the_shark\">jumped the shark</a> yet?"
  created: '2006-09-12 18:34:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sharkjump_4304.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-12 19:11:26'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: "I want to apologize to Thomas Phinney. My main intent on this was that with
    so many big founderies being competitive that at different time through the course
    of graphic arts history fonts have been copied or loosely pirated. I never meant
    to say all fonts from any library was a pirated thing. I have a tough way some
    times that may come off better in person, maybe not.\r\nThomas I am sorry that
    I offended you and I regret my words toward you and your company. I give you my
    promise that I will in the future hold my typing fingers. I won't be a party to
    the dreaded P!r@te topic again.\r\nI have to remind myself that we all love fonts
    and are really trying to elevate font issues, which I dragged down on this. I
    am sorry for that.\r\n\r\n\r\nThe Truth shall set you free"
  created: '2006-09-13 02:17:40'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Rodrigue\r\n\r\nThis is what I like about Typophile the most. When all is
    said and done (no matter what transpired) there is still the respect. That is
    my fourth characteristic of a type designer (you don't want to know what the first
    three are).\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-09-13 08:42:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Comon Gerald, tell us the other 3?\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-13 12:29:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Cheapness. I once complained that his little <cite>laserprinted</cite> booklet
    on ppl printing was too expensive at $25... The fact that I complained <cite>after</cite>
    having bought it had no impact apparently. But I forget what the remaining two
    are.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-13 17:03:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Chris, you got it wrong, matey: it\u2019s September 19th, not September
    11th. Check with sii. He knows.\r\n\r\nYep, it's comming up... \r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Talk_Like_a_Pirate_Day"
  created: '2006-09-13 18:40:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "OK Si, I will hold my belaying pin until next week\r\n}b^{>\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-13 19:37:47'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: Chris, you perfect nerd; I've never seen a pirate emoticon before. Kudos.
  created: '2006-09-13 22:03:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I kinda thought I just invented it matey!  Whoops!, can't say matey until
    next week or Si will have me walk the plank!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-13 22:06:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Don''t start too early - unless you want to make an ar(gghhh)se of your self.
    P-) '
  created: '2006-09-13 22:28:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Si, I don\u2019t want to be walking the <a href=\"http://nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/physics/laureates/1918/planck-bio.html\">Planck</a>
    Constantly, the mechanics would have to be kept in perfect order for that.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-14 15:13:45'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em> >MM doesn\u2019t do the end user any good as a component of FontLab.\r\n\r\nWell,
    it helps type designers make extended families, something graphic designers want.
    That\u2019s good for end users, of type and of the products produced with type.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    had a discussion recently that fonts such as Univers, might be better off in this
    kind of format. Only problem is, many EULAs don't permit this, but that's another
    topic altogether... \r\n "
  created: '2006-09-14 15:42:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Is the Bitstream vs Linotype story told anywhere?\" \r\n\"Mike Parker and
    Matthew Carter. Both were British ex-pats\"\r\n\r\nMike Parker is not actually
    a Brit ex-pat. You'd have to 'ave heard his mother to understand the accent. \r\n\r\nBitstream
    vs Linotype began when Leonard Storch Enterprises won a suit allowing themselves
    to continue photocopying Linotype film fonts and selling them for less than the
    originals cost to make, which for Linotype was a lot, for Storch it cost nothing.
    In addition, slightly later on, Linotype agreed to produce bitmap screen fonts
    for Xerox, but declined to do the same for Scitex. So, when Linotype's management
    and parent, Allied Chemical, decided also to cut the letterdrawing budget by an
    amount about equal to the salaries of the four top executives of the letterdrawing
    department, Bitstream was born. Those four knew that a type department was profittable.\r\n\r\nBitstream
    then proceeded to build a staff, tools and a library for typesetter, imagesetter
    and word processor manufacturers who could not get type otherwise, as Linotype
    and the other manufacturers would neither license to them, or Bitstream, and there
    were no other independant digital font foundries. None of the thousand digital
    outlines made for this purpose were compatible with Linotype's versions, (except
    the monospaced), in either width or image and none were made to work on Linotype
    machines, until the later advent of PostScript, by which time, most of the Linotype
    library had been cloned by Adobe.\r\n\r\n\"Parker and Carter are unlikely-looking
    as a pair to be cast in the role of pirates\"\r\nAbsolutely not. You'd have to
    make a pretty exact replica of an existing and profittable standard, rename it
    something, put it right back on the originators machinery, and have the financial
    resources to to do otherwise, to be cast as a pirate in my book."
  created: '2006-09-14 15:56:42'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "well, since this thread has become a catch-all anyway, i'll tack on my own
    bitstream question as it's not too far off what the topic has become...\r\nis
    there a listing anywhere of which bitstream fonts corespond with which originals?
    just curious."
  created: '2006-09-14 16:23:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Paul, I don't know about Bitstream, but Agfa did that (like in the back of
    their thick black book). I actually found that pretty refreshing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-14 17:01:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">is there a listing anywhere of which bitstream fonts corespond with which
    originals?\r\n\r\nMaybe, but if you only want to look a particular font this info
    is posted at MyFonts... \r\n\r\nEg http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/bitstream/formal-436/\r\n
    \r\nFormal 436  \r\n    \r\n$24.75\r\n \r\n--------------------------------------------------------------------------------\r\n\r\nDesign
    Credits\r\nFirst seen on MyFonts: January 1st, 2000\r\n<STRONG>Letterform design
    based on: Oscar</STRONG>\r\nContained in Categories: Decorative & Display, Script\r\nDesign
    owned by: Bitstream\r\nOriginally created by: Bitstream\r\nMyFonts Keywords: calligraphy,
    decorative, disconnected, script [suggest]\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-14 17:06:22'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: There used to be a little application, under OS9, that showed you all the
    Bitstream fontnames next to the "proper" names. I forget what it is called. I'll
    dig and see if I have it archived somehwere.
  created: '2006-09-14 17:29:54'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "There's a list of Bitstream > common names and vice versa on Luc Devroye's
    site:\r\n\r\nhttp://cg.scs.carleton.ca/~luc/jonpastor.txt\r\n\r\nThis list is
    derived from the data in the Bitstream desk accessory:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontinfo.net/Font_Analog.html\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-14 17:50:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Absolutely not\r\n\r\nJust to be clear, I was was saying that I found it
    extremely hard to believe that these fine fellows would do anything improper.
    So the 'very, very bad' of John Hudson above is not accurate.  \r\n\r\nThanks
    for the story. I would like to see a fuller version somewhere. This story is not
    in 'Printers Type in the Twentieth Century', and it seems to me that it is an
    important part of the story. It strikes me that the '80s were a critical time
    for digital type, as there was a lot of change, and decisions made then we are
    still living with for good or ill. These are decisions that relate both to drawing
    type and to digital rights. \r\n\r\nFor example: What format were Linotypes digital
    fonts in pre-bitstream? And was the \"cloning\" of Linotype's fonts by Adobe done
    under license from Linotype, or were the current agreements worked out later?"
  created: '2006-09-14 18:33:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I thinl Linotype and Adobe worked together on it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-14 18:39:39'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"What format were Linotypes digital fonts in pre-bitstream?\" \r\nDigital
    fonts covers a lot of ground. The only things you could call digital outlines
    were 100 or so Ikarus fonts. They also had many machine formats that were either
    bitmaps or vectorized outlines. Most of the library was on paper and film with
    a 10\" em was the standard font format for its unshrinkable scanabilities.\r\n\r\n\"...was
    the \u201Ccloning\u201D of Linotype\u2019s fonts by Adobe done under license from
    Linotype, or were the current agreements worked out later?\"\r\n\r\nIn all but
    a few cases the cloning was under license from Linotype."
  created: '2006-09-14 21:19:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>You\u2019d have to make a pretty exact replica of an existing
    and profittable standard, rename it something, put it right back on the originators
    machinery, and have the financial resources to to do otherwise, to be cast as
    a pirate in my book.</em>\r\n\r\nSo copying someone's else's designs without permission
    is okay so long as the replica isn't exact and you make it for a different machinery
    and your excuse is that you don't have the financial resources to do otherwise?"
  created: '2006-09-15 00:18:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "William: <em>Just to be clear, I was was saying that I found it extremely
    hard to believe that these fine fellows would do anything improper. So the \u2018very,
    very bad\u2019 of John Hudson above is not accurate.\r\n\r\nThanks for the story.</em>\r\n\r\nMaybe
    you should also hear the story from some people on the Linotype side who were
    there at the time. Or those who negotiated the Linotype-Bitstream agreement to
    finally 'legitimise' the clones a mere three years ago. Or maybe ask the designers
    whose typefaces were not licensed by Bitstream how they felt about other people
    profiting from their work while they received no royalties. The phrase 'very,
    very bad' is a pretty mild to what you will hear from some people.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    the 'fine fellows', I like them very much, one-and-all. They are very knowledgeable
    and talented, and generous with both. They've all done things that have been very
    positive contributions to the type business. Matthew and David know more about
    designing type than most of the rest of us put together, and it would be hard
    not to be fond of Mike. I remember, during a presentation by a German copyright
    lawyer at ATypI Barcelona in 1995, Jonathan Hoefler wanted to draw attention to
    the na\xEFvite of some of the speaker's assumptions about the type business. So
    he raised his hand and said 'I'm sitting next to one of the biggest pirates in
    the history of type'. Mike laughed.\r\n\r\nBeing fine-fellows didn't prevent them
    from cloning most of the Linotype library without permission and profiting from
    typeface designs  without paying royalties to designers (some designers, including
    Hermann Zapf made agreements with Bitstream; others, including Adrien Frutiger)
    did not. But being fine fellows did get them forgiven more quickly than anyone
    else would have been, although the feeling at Linotype -- I am told by someone
    who was there -- was that Bitstream was legitimised by the industry much too soon."
  created: '2006-09-15 01:21:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>...and have the financial resources to to do otherwise...</em>\r\n\r\nSorry,
    I have to come back to this because I'm just gobsmacked. It's not piracy if you
    can't afford not to clone other peoples' work? Is that like saying that stealing
    something isn't theft if you can't afford to buy it?\r\n\r\n[PS. I'm about to
    leave for Europe, so won't be following this anymore]"
  created: '2006-09-15 01:26:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Maybe you should also hear the story from some people on the Linotype side
    who were there at the time. \r\n\r\nFair enough. \r\n\r\nI'd really like some
    historian to talk to all sides of this and other stories of the 80s type world,
    and get the viewpoints of different parties down on paper. I think it's a story
    worth telling. "
  created: '2006-09-15 01:54:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Jonathan Hoefler ... raised his hand and said ...\r\n\r\nBut of course
    copying dead people is simply wonderful.\r\nSince the important thing, of course,
    is that they can't sue you for money.\r\nThe important thing, of course, is Money.\r\n\r\n>
    Bitstream was legitimised by the industry much too soon.\r\n\r\nYou're not being
    even-handed. And you fail to mention a very important thing about Bitstream pertaining
    to ethics: that they decided to change their mind about not honoring embedding
    permissions, when they didn't have to. The riotous applause they received when
    they announced that indicates that your harsh stance is not shared by many.\r\n\r\n>
    it\u2019s a story worth telling.\r\n\r\nIt's a story worth yawning off.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-15 02:12:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Also: Instead of trying to nail down blacks and whites, in the realm of Ethics
    (as opposed to Law) it's much more useful, much more <cite>human</cite>, to focus
    on one simple concept: reasonability - as subjective as that is - because everything
    is. A good thing to focus on is this passage on the FontInfo site that Elliot
    referred to above: \"Some companies will ... charge outrageous rates or refuse
    to offer any terms at all.\" The alleged Rules of Capitalism can say what they
    want, balanced human beings know better (even if some of them too often act otherwise,
    especially when opining on companies one of which they do work for and the other
    they don't).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-15 02:26:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I'm sticking with my definition of cloning, thanks, and no, I would not shoot
    someone who was stealing food from my, or anyone else's garden, preferring to
    ask questions first...\r\n\r\nThe Bitstream stuff was certainly my side of the
    story, but the underlying facts remain: that none of the fonts were clones, most
    of the sources were more than 50 years old (then), and Linotype licensing was
    denied for the \"new\" stuff. The Linotype people who inherited the library from
    Mike's regime, (the same upper management who denied Scitex products on politically-based
    religious grounds), subsequently licensed the library to Adobe at less generous
    terms than Bitstream offered. Whereupon, another \"very, very bad, pirate\", the
    much loved by me but Ex-Autoligical Sumner Stone, came into typographical control
    of Adobe's capture of much of Linotype's property, for which Linotype ended up
    paying Adobe royalties, even when they sold their own products. Those Linotype
    people would be very hard to find! ;)\r\n\r\nI don't know, were they gobsmacked?
    I must have been too, because I thought Adobe having a monopoly on the tools,
    the format, the pdl, interpreter and font format was a very, very bad thing, and
    to allow them a monopoly on design too was worth breaking up at any cost. There
    are, I guess, designers who are comfortable with their skills, and there are,
    I guess, others who need the security blanket of an overarching monopoly to protect
    their \"shortcomings\" from the fierce glare of the world's eyes. \"Bitstream
    was legitimized by the industry much too soon.\" Me too. What about you?  Geeze,
    some newbies just have no idea how easy they have it now...\r\n\r\nGod speed and
    \"lead on\" John Hudson, \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-17 12:37:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: There was certainly a business opportunity to be had, and a demand from customers,
    for established type designs to be made available in the new digital technology.
    Nonetheless, several early-established digital foundries chose to publish only
    original designs. FontFont and Emigre spring to mind. How "easy" did they have
    it? -- Was this "counterculture" only possible in an environment which the availability
    of classic faces had already made viable?
  created: '2006-09-17 18:22:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think so. Although maybe more than \"possible\", probably \"financially
    viable\". But it depends on broader cultural shifts too; if people at large hadn't
    become so tired of the \"classic attitude\" Emigre wouldn't have become so big,
    beside the fact of what fonts are available or not to graphic designers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-17 18:51:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "When my graphic design practice went digital in the late 90's, I made good
    use of the variety of classic faces available. It took a while for digital foundries
    to create a large number of good new type designs.\r\n\r\nAlso, compare the huge
    scope of Adobe Garamond in 1989 with its Expert fonts, and the first release of
    Scala (1991), which was I believe the first new design with OSF and small caps,
    at any rate, the first one I felt was satisfactory."
  created: '2006-09-17 19:07:41'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I just wanted to thank Rodrigue for his apology way back in this thread on
    Sept. 12th - I would have said something earlier, but this is my first time reading
    it since then.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-09-19 07:23:56'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Dave Berlow, you said that \"all but a few\" of Adobe's versions of Linotype's
    typefaces were licensed from Linotype. As far as I'm aware, it's \"all.\" I'm
    curious if you have any specific examples to the contrary? (All I can imagine
    is there may be some cases where both Adobe and Lino did revivals from the same
    source, such as ATF.)\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-09-19 07:26:06'
date: '2006-09-08 18:50:36'
title: Pirates Query

---
