---
author:
  name: xensen
  picture: 109967
body: "I was interested in an aspect of <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/21133\">this
  typophile discussion</a> in which John Hudson wrote that \u201CThe invention of
  moveable type in China is an interesting historical fact, but of no direct significance
  for westerners.\u201D Although I have been hanging around Typophile long enough
  to develop considerable respect for Mr. Hudson\u2019s erudition and judgment, I
  was not so sure that this statement was altogether true, and I decided to research
  the matter.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve posted the results of my research in an article I\u2019m
  calling (at least for now) <a href=\"http://www.rightreading.com/printing/gutenberg.asia/gutenberg-asia-1-introduction.htm\">Gutenberg
  and the Koreans.</a> While it\u2019s true that there is no \u201Csmoking gun\u201D
  directly linking the considerable Asian experience in cast-type printing to the
  print explosion of the European Renaissance, there is enough circumstantial evidence
  of probable influence that I think the burden of proof may be on those who claim
  that the two were unconnected.\r\n\r\nIn a way this post  is a little premature.
  I\u2019m still fiddling with the essay a bit (and I confess that permissions for
  some of the images are pending). I\u2019m intending the piece for print publication
  and I\u2019d love to get some feedback from typophiles -- many of whom I\u2019m
  sure know more than I do about many aspects of this topic. (Be warned the piece
  is a bit long at around 6000 words.)\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\nt\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.rightreading.com/printing/gutenberg.asia/gutenberg-asia-1-introduction.htm\">Gutenberg
  and the Koreans</a>\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "xensen\r\n\r\nActually, no, the burden would be on those trying to make a
    direct connection. There is no direct connection in terms of Asian type. Punchcutting
    is actually a very old process and was used by the Europeans for coinage, medallions,
    etc. It is likely that the written word had more social restrictions to the point
    that no one could think outside of the box. Which, wasn't such a cool thing in
    those days anyway.\r\n\r\nHowever. The Europeans had seen Asian currency and the
    Europeans had been printing for nearly a century prior to Gutenberg; but not with
    metal type. \r\n\r\nBut the impetus for the development of mechanical writing
    was with the Church. It not only promoted the idea to eliminate the problem of
    corruption of text (copying error after error, and introducing error) but was
    also willing to finance. The prize was there for the taking. All one had to do
    was figure it all out.\r\n\r\nThe Printing Museum of Tokyo has a few catalogs
    out that provide a great deal of information about Asian type with many wonderful
    illustrations of the sand moulds.\r\n\r\nGerald\r\nhttp://BielerPress.blogspot.com"
  created: '2006-09-14 05:41:42'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: Thank you. Still, I think there is less likelihood that word of the Korean
    advances failed to travel the usual routs of transmission of print technologies
    -- considering that the gates were open during the centuries the Koreans were
    actively working with movable metal type -- than that it did travel them. I'm
    not claiming direct influence.
  created: '2006-09-14 05:50:04'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "xensen\r\n\r\nThe gates may have been open to Islam, but certainly not to
    Christianity, which was keeping its doors tightly closed during that period. It
    wasn't until the invasions of Spain that transmission with the outside world began
    to be realized and Europe began to wake up from its long dark dream. There is
    a reason they call it the renaissance.\r\n\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-09-14 06:03:24'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: "Gerald\r\n\r\nNow that is simply false. There is plenty of documented contact,
    including exchanges of both emissaries and documents, between the Franks and the
    Persian Ilkhanate, for example. The quaint view of the Medieval period as a \"Dark
    Age\" when nothing was happening intellectually is an artifact of Victorian notions
    of \"progress.\""
  created: '2006-09-14 07:28:40'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "xensen\r\n\r\nI don't disagree with this, but one does not first throw pearls.
    . .\r\n\r\nThe generality, though, is not across the board false, but details
    of historical incidence (such as your information about the exchanges) are sometimes
    surprising, if not disturbing, to accepted views. \r\n\r\nI would agree that the
    Dark Age is a falsehood, especially considering European advances in mechanics,
    metallurgy, merchantilism during this period, which lay the groundwork for the
    notion of \"progress\" which infects us still.\r\n\r\nSo, to get back to it: the
    transmission of information East to West from about the period 1200 to 1400...
    What are the instances that would lead one to conclude a Korean influence?\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-09-14 07:48:51'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "xensen\r\n\r\nSomething unstated here, and which bothers me a great deal
    about getting into \"real\" discussions on lists such as this where folks can
    use monikers rather than reveal who they are is that one never knows who they
    are actually talking to and should likely be suspicious of someone who would disguise
    their identity. So if I am not forthcoming and it seems like I am testing you,
    there is a reason.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-09-14 08:28:14'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "xensen\r\n\r\nThis has bugged me a bit so I went and examined the information
    that you present on the site. I kinda screwed up here didn't I? I don't see problems
    with the historical presentation. It's better than most. Actually, far better
    than most. There are certainly Asian influences that \"could\" be discerned (and
    they are accurate as far as I know) but I don't see any viable connection with
    Korea or Japan there and I would think these would be crucial to your thesis.
    (?)\r\n\r\nIf you like I will furnish you information regarding the Printing Museum
    of Tokyo data (some of which is not translated) or I can furnish you with the
    direct contact there who would more than happy to influence you!!! and probably
    send you a bunch of stuff.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-09-14 09:00:45'
- author:
    name: Max Grody
    picture: 111890
  body: "While there is always the possibility that a Korean book, or word of the
    Korean invention, came through Mainz in years prior to Gutenberg's invention,
    it seems less likely by the fact that there wasn't an outbreak of printing presses
    being made in Europe.\r\n\r\nGutenberg was a goldsmith, and he became very familiar
    with the trade and like many of his time he used a punch hallmark to imprint his
    'signature' onto metal creations.  From there, it isn't a far leap to understand
    how he figured out the idea of a type machine based on the hallmark punch.  Especially
    since the punch and the type he made were relatively similar in construction.
    \ So his understanding of metals and a tool he used most likely spurred him onto
    a fantastic idea.\r\n\r\nOther aspects of European life in the earlier century
    also led to the probability or feasibility of the printing press invention.  Since
    the black plague left so much money in the hands of the remaining citizens, better
    clothing was acquired which lead to more stray linen that could be used for making
    paper.  Paper was cheap and plentiful.  Also, the black death killed off many
    of the scholars and scribes so it opened a need for printing to convey information
    without needing to pay ridiculous amounts to someone who knew how to write and
    do it well.\r\n\r\nIt isn't uncommon for inventions to simultaneously be spawned,
    or discovered in two unrelated areas or times.  Asian wood block printing never
    advanced much due to the nature of wood and wear, and the amount of characters
    in Chinese (and Japanese) language.  But, korea would have been perfect since
    they had a more limited alphabet (I'm assuming their text was fairly similar in
    1200 ad to now).  However, Korea wasn't quite as central in trade and information
    as Europe was so it is an easy place to lose development of a valuable invention."
  created: '2006-09-14 11:39:09'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: "Gerald\r\n\r\nI am beginning my workday now and unable to spend time on this
    (tough deadlines!). Of course I would love to see the information you generously
    offer. \r\n\r\nBut let me quickly respond to this comment: <em>Something unstated
    here, and which bothers me a great deal about getting into \u201Creal\u201D discussions
    on lists such as this where folks can use monikers rather than reveal who they
    are is that one never knows who they are actually talking to and should likely
    be suspicious of someone who would disguise their identity.</em> My typophile
    handle is xensen but my identity used to appear in these forums as \"tom christensen.\"
    I don't remember changing that (but maybe I did?). Anyway my contact information
    is available in my typophile profile, and also on my website where the piece was
    posted (and where you can learn more about me than you could possibly want to
    know). \r\n\r\nThanks for your comments.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nt\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-14 16:05:03'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: "Gerald\r\n\r\nWell, one more comment. When you write <em>There are certainly
    Asian influences that \u201Ccould\u201D be discerned (and they are accurate as
    far as I know) but I don\u2019t see any viable connection with Korea or Japan
    there and I would think these would be crucial to your thesis. (?)</em> you are
    actually quite close to my position. All I am really able to show is that such
    influences \"could\" have occurred. I feel that the statement that started me
    on this, \"The invention of moveable type in China is an interesting historical
    fact, but of no direct significance for westerners\" is a bit too emphatic and
    dismissive of the Asian tradition, and I was trying to demonstrate the possibility
    of transmission. I have no proof that it occurred in any direct way.\r\n\r\nThe
    connection with Korea is that both China and Korea were part of the Mongol empire,
    and there was a great deal of cultural exchange between China and Korea -- I feel
    confident I demonstrated that. There were Europeans in Beijing at the time, and
    it would be surprising if they did not hear anything of Korean printing. I didn't
    mention it in the article (maybe I should) but China actually commissioned printing
    of Buddhist texts from Korea, where they had been better preserved because of
    Korea's intensive print tradition.\r\n\r\nAs for Japan, I don't know much about
    its print tradition and consider it a little tangential to my present argument,
    which is intended to show that we cannot simply assert as a fact that no word
    whatsoever of movable metal type printing reached Europe.\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-14 16:18:53'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: "Max\r\n\r\nI'm less interested in Gutenberg the individual than Gutenberg
    as a symbol of a development in Western printing. I did mention his background
    as a goldsmith, and Helmutt Lehmann-Haupt has suggested that he invented not just
    the printing press, in the form he used it, but also the technique of copper engraving.
    He printed copper plates for playing cards -- which incidentally developed in
    Asia and spread from there to the West.\r\n\r\nHangul, the Korean script you are
    thinking of, was created in the mid fifteenth century during the Joseon dynasty
    -- too late for the present argument.\r\n\r\nAsian woodblock printing was highly
    developed and well suited to Asian cultural needs. For one thing, it enabled combining
    illustrations with type, which is something the Europeans struggled with. Also,
    East Asians were not especially concerned with printing large numbers of copies.
    Chinese block hardwoods like beech and jujube were actually quite durable. I think
    you probably mean printing with movable wood type when you say \"Asian wood block
    printing never advanced much.\" However we do know of wood type that was still
    being used to print books more than 200 years after it was cut (Pi Sheng's type,
    from around the end of the first millennium, was still being used under Khubilai
    Kan, who reigned at the end of the thirteenth century).\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-14 16:47:02'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Tom\r\n\r\nI think the information you portray about the exchange East and
    West, or at least the possiblility of it, or the potential for it, is quite good.
    But the information about the development of Western printing is a bit weak and
    it might be because you, as stated, regard Gutenberg as a symbol rather than an
    individual.\r\n\r\nA while back the artist Jeffrey Atherton and I decided to do
    a book project on Gutenberg. The idea at first was to do a three-act play based
    on the myth. So we started to do the research. I had actually amassed whatever
    I could on Gutenberg in terms of printed material for something like twenty years
    and we started there. We eventually interviewed and corresponded with scholars
    who specialized in the formative years of Western printing. \r\n\r\nThere is an
    awful lot of wrong information that contributes to the myth. And the more we got
    into it the more the myth slowly faded away and, so did Gutenberg. At the higher
    levels of research, he hardly exists. There is very little known about Gutenberg
    except for information culled from legal documents, most of which surfaced in
    the mid-nineteenth century. There is, for instance, no evidence that Gutenberg
    was a goldsmith. There is documentation that he was associated with the mint but
    not a member. This would not be abnormal considering his social position. To a
    large extent the investigation here needs to get beyond the acceptance of the
    symbol and that is where the needed discoveries may be found.\r\n\r\nYour statement
    about copper plate engraving is of interest as I think that Gutenberg has been
    short-changed by the emphasis on his involvement with the work on B42, whereas
    his various activities prior to that project offer more clues in regard to the
    formative aspects that led to the \"perfection\" of mechanical writing. Typography
    does not begin with Gutenberg, it begins with Shoeffer. Gutenberg needs to be
    examined not as a printer but as a very inventive mechanic (in the sense of what
    that term meant in the time period).\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-09-14 18:27:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Tom, I'm glad to see that my comments have sparked such a well-researched
    response. I'm preparing to leave for Europe shortly, to attend the ATypI conference
    in Lisbon, so do not have time now to read through all your essay, but I am impressed
    by what I see so far.\r\n\r\nThe very widespread trade and movement of people
    during the Middle Ages is something that interests me very much, and for which
    I have healthy respect. I studied mediaeval history at university, and have always
    been impressed by how widely people travelled considering the difficulties of
    such journeys.\r\n\r\nThere are a few things that should be kept in mind though
    (perhaps you consider these in the parts of your essay that I have not read yet).
    European trade with Asia was conducted through a series of intermediaries. Goods
    travelling from China passed through several marketplaces before they arrived
    in Europe, and there is frequent evidence that Europeans didn't always know where
    goods had originated. This observation isn't limited to the Middle Ages, of course,
    it is true even today. This isn't to suggest that material Asian influence in
    the development of moveable type in Europe wasn't possible, but that such material
    influence was most likely to be diffuse. That is, it is unlikely that any direct
    model influenced the European development, but a long, gradual trade would have
    contributed to technologies that made the development realisable. Of course, one
    also shouldn't assume that the trade was in one direction only. And European metallurgy
    had many centuries of development prior to the idea of casting letters in metal.
    So one also has to ask at what stage are technologies considered 'naturalised'
    and their further development not attributable to possible earlier influences.\r\n\r\nThe
    other question that occurs to me is 'Why Mainz?' If a material Asian influence
    was significant, I can think of lots of places in Europe where the development
    of moveable type would have been more likely to occur.\r\n\r\nRegarding the burden
    of proof, I don't think 'circumstantial evidence of probable influence' is sufficient
    to shift the burden on to those who think that the Asian and European developments
    were unconnected. In any case, it is impossible to prove an absence. Applying
    Occam's razor, one can ask whether such an influence was in any way necessary
    to the European development, or were all the pieces -- the material, the metallurgical
    and punchcutting skills, etc. -- necessary for the invention of moveable type
    present in a sufficiently developed state in Europe?"
  created: '2006-09-14 18:55:06'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: "Thanks, John and Gerald\r\n\r\nI will edit the information about goldsmithing.
    As you know, I do begin by talking about how we know very little about Gutenberg.\r\n\r\nI
    regret the comment about where the burden of proof lies. That question is irrelevant
    to what I'm trying to do and is just acting as a distraction. I will remove it
    from the article.\r\n\r\nI am delighted to get such thoughtful and helpful responses.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-14 19:31:59'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Tom\r\n\r\nJust something further. Some of the speculation presented in the
    Helmutt Lehmann-Haupt study (I assume you are referring to Gutenberg and the Master
    of the Playing Cards) is no longer valid, having been dismissed by subsequent
    research. A number of similar perfectly common-sensical ideas have been dropped
    by the wayside as well. An example would be that the wood block book preceded
    books printed with movable type. This would seem to be a logical progression but
    there is no evidence that this was the chain of events. Rather there is evidence
    that it was not.\r\n\r\nA book you might want to acquire is Printing in the Endo
    Period / Ieyasu: Typographic Man, which was published by the Printing Museum,
    Tokyo in 2000. Interestingly, therein is an article on the influence of Korean
    Dynasty Metal Type Culture on Japan as well as an article describing the introduction
    of Western printing to Japan. The first printing press arrived there in 1587\u20131590.
    The book is an attempt to examine and promote Japanese achievements and progression
    in printing history but despite this (from my reading of it) there is nowhere
    to be found within any claim that developments in Korea or elsewhere had influence
    on or were known in the West.\r\n\r\nThis is a catalog of an exhibition and there
    are numerous photographs of printed materials, casting moulds, cast type.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-09-14 19:36:58'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: "Gerald\r\n\r\nI did wonder about Lehmann-Haupt's work but couldn't find much
    in the way of responses to it (although I haven't visited a research library on
    this point -- it's a bit of a side issue for me because I'm basically reviewing
    the Asian print situation and the routes of possible transmission). Can you refer
    me to an article? \r\n\r\nI can't really go into depth on what happened on the
    European side because the article is already longer than I'd like it to be, and
    I think this material has been addressed by others. I was aware of the question
    of the chronology of block printing and movable type printing in Europe. If I
    misrepresented this it was through carelessness.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-14 19:58:02'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Tom\r\n\r\nI'm not sure if you have already examined this but the most recent
    in-depth examination of Gutenberg is Albert Kapr's Johann Gutenberg: The Man and
    his Invention, Scholar Press, 1996. In his chapter Printing Parallels he has a
    section Did printing in Asia influence Gutenberg's invention. He examines the
    transmission lines or again the possibility of transmission. Much similar to your
    account. But he does end with a very important clue. Nicholas of Cues, the very
    same Papal authority who advocated for the development of a form of mechanical
    writing and is thought to have been involved with the planning of B42. Cues had
    gone to Constantinople in regard to the Council of Ferrara and Kapr suggests that
    his interaction there with folks who may have had knowledge of Asian developments
    could have resulted in his advocacy. He notes that this would not have had an
    effect on Gutenberg's experiments at the time but it may have provided the way
    and means for their realization. \r\n\r\nOn the other hand, had this not actually
    happened, Gutenberg's work could have gone down the same dead end road as the
    Korean's.\r\n\r\nNot all scholars will agree with Kapr and not quite what you
    are looking for but if you have not already read the book you might very well
    want to.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-09-14 21:14:44'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: "Gerald\r\n\r\nThat's a great tip -- thanks! I was able to consult a copy
    of the book. While I find Kapr's argument a bit muddled, the mere fact that a
    Western printing scholar is seriously entertaining the notion of influence is
    heartening.\r\n\r\nt"
  created: '2006-09-14 22:00:05'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Tom\r\n\r\nI was over at your site and borrowed the image of the paizi. This
    is of the type issued to Marco Polo I assume. I was struck by the clarity and
    uniformity of the lettering so I thought a view in Photoshop might tell me something.
    I'm not all that familiar with the casting of coins and medallions but that sure
    looks like controlled punch work. Early experiments by Gutenberg included punchwork
    on a mirror holder that he and his partners hoped to sell to crusaders. The crusade
    left without them. Any idea of the date of the paizi?\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-09-15 03:14:16'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: "Gerald\r\n\r\nHa, well, I borrowed it (just temporarily) from <a href=\"http://www.metmuseum.org/toah/hd/yuan/ho_1993.256.htm\">the
    Met's website</a>, where it's identified as 13th c., China. The Met says \r\n\r\n\"Although
    it was in use in China before the advent of the Mongols, the paiza, an inscribed
    metal plaque that functioned as a passport or a patent of office, became a symbol
    of Mongol administration used to regulate and secure communication in the vast
    empire. Most paizi were circular or rectangular and were worn either fastened
    on an item of clothing or suspended from the neck to make them visible to customs
    officers. These metal plaques are not only important historical documents but
    are also of great interest for the study of Asian metalwork during the thirteenth
    and fourteenth centuries, a time of massive movements of people and rapid exchange
    of ideas and technology.\"\r\n\r\nI guess the singular is <em>paiza</em> and the
    plural <em>paizi.</em>"
  created: '2006-09-15 05:55:05'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: By the way, this is iron with silver inlay.
  created: '2006-09-15 05:57:36'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Tom\r\n\r\nI don't think I made my point well enough about the implication
    here, not that I am sure there is one. The paiza may be the key.\r\n\r\nGerald\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-15 06:21:27'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: "Gerald\r\n\r\nWell, Marco Polo carried one, and there must have been many
    Europeans who were aware of them. Polo's story was much translated and popular
    throughout Europe. Yes, the Gutenberg parallel is provocative. \r\n\r\nThe paizi
    would be interesting to research. A good place to begin might be <a href=\"http://www.cambridge.org/series/sSeries.asp?code=NCSC\">Needham's
    Science and Civilization in China.</a>"
  created: '2006-09-15 06:48:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "This is a fine essay, Tom. It pretty much cements the idea that easern \"printing\"
    was well known to 13th and 14th century Europeans.\r\n\r\nYou start with...\r\n\"Johannes
    Gutenberg\u2019s development...helped to spark the European Renaissance.1 Although
    ...[this] honor is sometimes claimed for a handful of other printers. This dispute
    has little bearing on the present argument.\"\r\n\r\nBut in fact it does. The
    issue is first, how western printing developed from Gutenberg to an industry,
    via \"revolution\", if you want, (though I don't). Then you see why, \"in Korea,
    where printing with movable metal type was perfected\", is not really true, is
    it? unless it comes down to terms, granularity, and each of our \"understandings\".
    \r\n\r\nI think we all agree what \"printing\" is... But moveable type is several
    things. Printing a whole plate of Kanji is printing and at one point the type
    was perhaps moveable at the granularity of word, idea or linokanji. But the invention
    that changed the west was a sure and swift process from striking the punch to
    the finished letter in the hands of \"a nobody\", and then, the development of
    this into a profitable and unfettered industrial process, not by revolution, but
    rather by careful interplay between clients, readers and what was then the baby
    font industry.\r\n\r\nThis part of your essay, \"Lastly, one scrapes and files
    off the irregularities, and piles them up to be arranged.\" is at a heart of my
    \"point\". This point of the process, when each letter is being improved ex post
    matrix, is something JG shared with your Koreans, and in my opinion separates
    the process of moveable type from that of \"makeable\" type. Regardless of what
    JG might or might not have seen, if he saw printed materials from China, Mongolia
    or Korea, how would he have known if the type that produced it was movable? And
    even if said printed material was joined by a translatable expert from the east,
    JG did not get it, or he either could not afford or find the right materials,
    relative to the later craftspeople who did in fact, and \"perfected\" the process.
    And these unknown craftspeople most certainly knew more about JG than about Kang.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-17 16:28:49'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: The concept of movable type ex post matrix may confuse the discovery process.
    If a European was examining an Eastern artifact and noted that each instance of
    a glyph was identical, in the right mind set that could trigger a realization
    that some form of mechanical "setting" was at play. When I examined the paiza
    in photo editing software, and transposed image over image, it seemed to me that
    certain instances of glyphs were identical. The resolution of the original image
    is so poor it is hard to say for sure. The problem really is a transfer of thinking
    about the way coins and medallions were produced to that of making the same process
    work as writing. I suspect cultural traditions in regard to writing prevented
    the connection. Punches are thought to have been used in some manner (for casting)
    for quite some long time. The Koreans were the first to resolve this. Add evidence
    of paper printed from mechanical forms to that of evidence of identical glyphs
    in cast artifacts and someone could have made the connection. The fact that printing
    in the West progressed from its source is simply the reason a possible connection
    was lost. It is clear from artifacts that survive, moulds, type, that Korean type
    was movable not just makeable.
  created: '2006-09-17 20:23:19'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "David\r\n\r\nYes, those unknown craftspeople would not have known about Kang,
    but they would also not have known about Gutenberg. He never made a printed claim
    to have perfected mechanical writing, nor identified himself in any printed material
    thought now to have been produced by him. Nor was he claimed in any of the literature
    as the inventor of printing with movable type for quite some long time. The fairly
    well known colophon describing the circumstances of the invention of printing,
    in a book printed in 1515 by Johann Shoeffer, grandson of Fust, makes no mention
    of Gutenberg.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-09-17 21:00:15'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Gerald, I'm sure I understand all of the points you've made, yet...The paiza?\r\n\r\n\".
    The problem really is a transfer of thinking about the way coins and medallions
    were produced to that of making the same process work as writing.\"\r\n\r\nI don't
    thing so. The problem is solving \"who cast first\" without post processing the
    results. The reason I say this, is because the solution to this problem, I believe,
    lies in combinations of combinations of metal, and very skilled typeface design.
    Coins e.g. usually one or two metals, should not be post-processed, (in a strictly
    controlled mint), because of the relationship between the value and the form.
    Medallions are closer to their Sumerian or Minoan forebearers and thousands of
    years of similar artifacts, than to moveable Latin type primarily because medallions
    don't need to do much other than to \"hang around\", maybe diving into wax once
    in a while, or being rolled around on paper, but we are not talking about a part
    of a mechanism there.\r\n\r\n\"a European examining an Eastern artifact and not[ing]
    that each [..] glyph was identical, in the right mind set [..] could trigger a
    realization that [...] mechanical \u201Csetting\u201D was at play\"\r\n\r\nSure,
    but it could equally trigger a craving for Chinese food;) Glyph fidelity is hardly
    a characteristic of moveable type is it? An artifact could have been made as a
    whole plate, with templates used to start each repeating glyph, (as unlikely in
    Kangi) as that my be) ,with no moveable type to speak of at all...\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-18 14:44:19'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "http://www.princeton.edu/pr/pwb/01/0212/\r\n...should have started some branch
    research, and I don't know if it did or not. If it did, someone is looking for
    the first printed evidence of a punch matrix system."
  created: '2006-09-18 14:57:35'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "David\r\n\r\n\r\nI'm not stuck on the validity of the idea, just entertaining
    it as a possibility for the sake of thinking about it. I don't think there is
    probability at play here. But I'm having a hard time following your argument regarding
    post-processing. \r\n\r\nThe methodology of using punch, matrix, and mould to
    produce movable type that we know to be the successful approach may very well
    not be the way that it all began. Recent Gutenberg studies have turned up anomalies
    in letterforms in early printed artifacts that could indicate that the casting
    process initially employed was dissimilar. The development of movable type in
    the West was likely a bit more tortured than we have assumed. It is quite apparent
    that Gutenberg et al spent a great deal of time experimenting with various techniques
    but these recent studies would suggest that the eventual successful application
    may not have been fully resolved in the earliest of printed books.\r\n\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-09-18 15:39:10'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "David\r\n\r\nI saw your note regarding the Princeton thing after I posted.
    Yes, this is one of the recent studies, there is another, more recent, that suggests
    that the letterforms in B42 were composites of letterforms rather than a glyph
    in its entirety. \r\n\r\nSand casting was the traditional technique for casting
    coins and medallions and was used by the Koreans in the casting of their type.
    It was as well used in the West for some long time\u2014Moxon writes about it
    (in 1683) as used for the casting of large letters. Moxon is credited as the first
    writer to fully examine the printing process (Mechanick Exercises on the Whole
    Art of Printing). However, when I early on made an inquiry to a knowledgable source
    about the sand casting theory in regard to B42 his remark was simply, \"There
    wasn't enough blue sand in Mainz.\"\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-09-18 16:07:15'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: "Some points\r\n\r\nThe question of whether Gutenberg was first is not of
    great importance to me because I'm working on the cultural level, not the individual
    level. I take Gutenberg on the Western side to be similar to Cai Lun on the East
    Asian side -- We know that Cai Lun did not really invent paper, but he represents
    the invention of paper. I hope that someone else might want to follow through
    at the individual level, but this is beyond what I can do. (Albert Kapr tries
    to do something at the individual level, as Gerald noted above.)\r\n\r\nBecause
    of the enormous amount of printing that occured in the second half of the fifteenth
    century I think it is fair to call it a revolutionary development. Once the spark
    of that revolution was lit the Europeans developed it into a formidable industry.
    When I refer to the Koreans' \"perfection\" of metal printing I of course mean
    that they made it meet their needs and produced a high-quality result. I'm not
    trying to judge their work by the standards of a foreign culture with different
    goals and values (I began my account by describing some of those differences).
    I'm quite happy to acknowledge the tremendous European achievement. I'm showing
    connections between cultures, not judging the achievements of one against the
    achievements of another.\r\n\r\nAnd a question\r\n\r\nWhat term (if any) would
    you folks prefer to \"movable-type printing\"? It seems a little misleading to
    me, but I've used it just because it seems to be the most common in the writing
    on this subject. (In places I've used the term \"cast-type printing.\")"
  created: '2006-09-18 23:58:01'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Tom\r\n\r\nCast-type printing could work. There was no viable industrial
    alternative to letterpress until about the mid-twentieth century thus the process
    was never referred to in this manner since there was no need. Note that type was
    actually never called by that name until 1701. Moxon simply referred to type as
    letters, which is probably what they were called for over two hundred years. Cast
    printing letters would probably make more sense in regard to the Korean work.\r\n\r\nGerald\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-19 00:34:59'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Tom\r\n\r\nFor your interest the first known term was the Latin formae. The
    oft quoted passage below is the earliest description of the process. Patronae
    would be the mechanism of production. What is most surprising about this is not
    the mention of the process but the revealed knowledge of historical writing implements.\r\n\r\nGerald\r\n\r\n\r\nBy
    the assistance of the Most High, at whose bidding the tongues of children become
    eloquent, and who often reveals to the lowly what He conceals from the wise, this
    noble book, Catholicon, in the year\r\nof our Lord's incarnation, 1460, in the
    mother city of Mainz (which belongs to the illustrious German nation, and which
    God has deigned to prefer and to raise with such an exalted light of the mind
    and\r\nof free grace above the other nations of the earth), was perfected, not
    by means of quill, reed, or stylus, but by the admirable concord, proportion,
    and measure of patronae and formae . . .\r\n\r\nColophon from the Catholicon of
    Johann Balbus of Genoa. "
  created: '2006-09-19 00:56:29'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: "This article has been accepted for publication by <a href=\"http://www.artsofasianet.com/\">Arts
    of Asia</a> (a good glossy art magazine with both high-quality image reproduction
    and serious content). It won't appear in print for a while, but they're okay with
    my leaving it up on <a href=\"http://www.rightreading.com\">my website</a>. Thanks
    for your help.\r\n\r\nTom"
  created: '2006-09-20 23:43:02'
date: '2006-09-14 04:36:32'
node_type: forum
title: Was there an Asian influence on printing of the early European Renaissance?

---
