---
author:
  name: Rhythmus.be
  picture: 111885
body: "This is from a pdf I once downloaded\u2014forgot its source. As the text is
  from [[Gerrit Noordzij]], I suppose so is the typeface. If that's the case, I'm
  afraid it will not be commercially available. The font specs in the pdf read \"SuduX050-Roman\",
  \"SuduX050-Italic\" and \"SuduX100-Roman\":\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/type_ID_5171.jpg]\r\n\r\nAny
  idea? Is it available? And what about other Noordzij-typefaces, as e.g. his \"Ruit\"?
  (I know \"Ruse\" is available through <a href=\"http://www.teff.nl/fonts/ruse/ruse.html\">TEFF</a>.)"
comments:
- author:
    name: hey
    picture: 111857
  body: "Have a look there: \r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/14918\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Rhythmus.be
      picture: 111885
    body: "Thanks. I noticed that all TEFF fonts have a similar name codification.
      So, probably the face was digitised by Gerrit's son Matthias indeed.\r\n\r\nDamn
      pity those Ensched\xE9 fonts are so expensive, considering also that they don't
      ship as OpenType, neither have many glyphs. No wonder that TEFF publishes so
      little: with these outrageous license fees, they don't need to bother\u2026\r\n"
    created: '2006-09-16 01:14:11'
  created: '2006-09-16 01:02:00'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Ludwig - I understand your bitterness about the price. But they publish so
    little because there are so few design(er)s that are worthy of the name. Lexicon
    and Renard, for instance, are two of the finest typefaces ever made, digital or
    pre-.
  created: '2006-09-16 03:24:03'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "I agree that the TEFF typefaces are outstanding\u2014at least aesthetically.
    But this has to do more with their designers than it has with corporate policies.
    Bram de Does' \"Trinit\xE9\" is imho the most beautiful typeface ever designed
    and probably one of the most researched. The same goes for his \"Lexicon\".\r\n\r\nBram
    de Does originally didn't want his \"Trinit\xE9\" to be digitised; at that time
    Matthias Noordzij experimented with Ikarus and suggested that he'd like to digitise
    Trinit\xE9. de Does was reluctant, but in the end convinced by the possibilities
    and adequateness of the new digital format. But, I guess, the fact that Matthias'
    father Gerrit had been student together with de Does was an extra argument. So
    was probably the fact that Ensched\xE9 (the esteemed old company) gave up its
    foundry division. Were it not because of these arbitrary coincidences and corporate
    tactics, Trinit\xE9 might be affordable to more than a few Dutch publishing houses.\r\n\r\nBram
    de Does is not only a great type designer, but a most fine human being too. I
    find it shocking that his talents are exploited in this way. If Noordzij (both
    father and son) whish to sell their designs at these outrageous fees, that's their
    decision. But most likely \"Trintit\xE9\" and \"Lexicon\" make up for the company's
    complete turnover, which is why it doesn't need to invest in much more publications.\r\n\r\n>
    they publish so little because there are so few design(er)s that are worthy\r\n>
    of the name\r\n\r\nI think it's the other way around: the technical and other
    specs of TEFF fonts (no OpenType, no features, no complete glyph sets, harsh EULA)
    are not worthy of Bram de Does' designs. And as for the name: it was bought from
    the company that over the centuries added to its esteem by giving opportunities
    to such men as Fleischman, van Krimpen, Salden and de Does, not by simply buying
    pre-made designs."
  created: '2006-09-16 12:58:38'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Ludwig \u2013 as you say Trinit\xE9 is one of the most researched typefaces,
    so I'm curious about <em>Bram de Does originally didn\u2019t want his \u201CTrinit\xE9\u201D
    to be digitised... etc</em>\r\n\r\nWhat is your source for saying this? And the
    following statements in the paragraph? I too am researching Trinit\xE9..."
  created: '2006-09-16 13:45:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ludwig, I don't think you're being fair. And to me it's mostly\r\na business
    decision, and in some ways it makes great sense.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW, Trinite
    was originally owned by Autologic, a CAD firm, no?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-16 14:22:48'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "I meant that Bram de Does himself did a lot of research before and during
    the design process of <cite>Trinit\xE9</cite>. I don't know about an extensive
    study on <cite>Trinit\xE9</cite>, but the story is adequately covered in the only
    monograph on de Does:\r\n\r\nMathieu Lommen (ed.), <cite>Bram de Does: letterontwerper
    & typograaf/typographer & type designer</cite>, Amsterdam: Uitgeverij De Buitenkant
    Publishers, 2003.\r\nISBN 90-76452-91-1  \r\n"
  created: '2006-09-16 14:23:12'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "Hrant \u2014 can you say why my statements aren't fair? And in what way the
    business decision makes great sense? As a business decision, sure. As a decision
    of people concerned with type and the divulgation of typography, no.\r\n\r\nThe
    TEFF license rates are by far the most expensive. This would make sense if they
    had a lot to offer. But apart from designs in which they themselves put no effort
    at all, they don't. Technically speaking, their products are outdated and incomplete.
    I think lots of small foundries out there could do a much better job and likely
    would sell their product at more appropriate fees. But they simply can't, because
    of the copyrights TEFF acquired years ago in a completely different situation.\r\n\r\nI
    think people should get paid for their work. And they also have the right to rate
    the value of their work themselves. All I am saying is that TEFF determines the
    price of the work done by someone else (de Does' design), but does not put up
    an equal amount of work in maintaining the technical quality of the fonts. The
    complete package of Trinit\xE9 is sold for almost the same price as Adobe's Font
    Folio, whereas one Adobe Original on merely technical grounds offers a lot more.\r\n\r\nTrinit\xE9
    was never owned by Autologic. It was and still is the property of its designer,
    Bram de Does. Because de Does was an employee of Ensched\xE9, the company had
    the rights of distribution. When the firm ordered a photosetter from the Swiss
    company Bobst Graphic, Ensched\xE9 decided to have a new typeface designed by
    de Does, to be used with the new technology. This was to become Trinit\xE9. Bobst
    Graphic got the license to produce the font, but for exclusive use of Ensched\xE9
    only. When Bobst Graphic got bankrupt, the firm was bought over by Autologic.
    It is at this point of time that the first specimen of Trinit\xE9 was published,
    under the imprint of Autologic. Autologic tried to get the license to produce
    the typeface as a digital font, but de Does objected, because of the poor quality
    of the glyphs they digitised as samples. It is only after that, that Matthias
    Noordzij convinced de Does and TEFF was founded. I wonder what would have happened
    with Trinit\xE9 when Autologic would have gotten de Does's permission\u2026"
  created: '2006-09-16 14:41:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Fairness is a tricky thing. For example, if your implication that De* Does
    doesn't agree with the pricing is true, then that does constitute a certain unfairness
    to him; on the other hand Trinite could have ended up at a much worse font house
    than TEFF, and he can be considered lucky in that respect. So it's a balancing
    act. And I think your own balancing act has been poor in this thread - the negative
    way you've cast TEFF in the overall. To an outsider (or at least to me) it basically
    seems like you're angry that you/more_people can't afford Trinite; although I'm
    all for helping \"mass culture\" along by promulgating good type, it can be argued
    that many talented people need to be compensated materially for them to engage
    in making good type to begin with - and making some people angry comes with the
    territory.\r\n\r\n* BTW, in Dutch \"qualifiers\" such as \"de\", \"van\", etc.
    actually become capitalized when the given name is omitted.\r\n\r\nIn terms of
    the business angle, I would say there are (at least) two good reasons for unusually
    high pricing. One is that pricing is self-fulfilling: something that's expensive
    is seen as being more valuable. But much more relevant here is piracy: font files
    are tiny; their effort-to-K ratio is ridiculously high; and something that costs
    somebody a lot of money is less likely to be shared by that person with others.
    Even though it's technologically trivial, when you buy a TEFF font you're extremely
    unlikely to pass it along to your buddy - and you're buddy, if he's really your
    buddy, will probably understand. The only risk with very high pricing is that
    too many people will lose respect for you in thinking you're being unfair, arrogant,
    etc. You seem to be one of those people, and you're certainly not alone. But are
    there enough of you?\r\n\r\nBut perhaps the most important counter to you that
    I would offer is that the quality of a text face is primarily based on its alphanumeric
    setting. Not fancy ligature code. The \"magic\" of a text face is in its notan,
    and superb notan should be pretty expensive, no matter how low-tech the font software
    is.\r\n\r\nFor the history on the Autologic angle, thank you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-17 01:04:04'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Ludwig \u2013 clearly I didn't understand your initial point about De Does'
    research (rather than anyone elses). Thank you for pointing me to Mathieu Lommens'
    book, and clarifying the Bobst/Autologic relationship.\r\n\r\nWithout wanting
    to hijack the thread, what I've managed to work out and write about Trinit\xE9
    so far is contained in the following paragraph \u2013 for which I am looking for
    feedback/correction \u2013 so if anyone would like to comment?\r\n\r\n<em>Trinit\xE9;
    Designed as a large interchangeable family of weights and styles, Trinit\xE9 was
    a reprise of fellow Dutchman Jan van Krimpen\u2019s ideas for a related text family,
    but made originally for photo setting by Bobst Graphic (later Autologic) in Switzerland.
    The typeface comprises of three weights of wide roman, two weights of narrow roman,
    two weights of small capitals and two weights of italic. The seven weights and
    widths of the roman and italic also come in three ranges of differing heights
    for the ascenders and descenders; with expert sets, pi fonts and ornaments, the
    total family consists of 81 separate digital fonts. Due to the pricing and licensing
    policies of Peter Mathias Noordzij\u2019s Ensched\xE9 digital type foundry (TEFF),
    Trinit\xE9 remains exclusive \u2013 a little-known but much admired typeface.</em>\r\n\r\nDo
    you think this last sentence is 'fair'?\r\n\r\nThe issue here is that I think
    Hrant's point about the high pricing actually protecting the face is correct;
    (I suspect that like a lot of people in this forum) I happen to know somebody
    who has been looking for a way of obtaining Trinit\xE9 without paying the full
    price for several years \u2013 but they have been completely unsuccessful in this
    attempt. As the ongoing debates about piracy on typophile will suggest, there
    are not many typefaces one can say this about.\r\n\r\nLastly, can either of you
    please tell me if TEFF still retain the copyright to Cancellaresca Bastarda? And
    whether they will ever release it as digital font?"
  created: '2006-09-17 03:52:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ">  ... by Bobst Graphic (later Autologic) in Switzerland.\r\n\r\nBetter:\r\n\"...
    by Bobst Graphic in Switzerland (later Autologic in California).\"\r\n\r\n> Trinit\xE9
    remains exclusive \u2013 a little-known but much admired typeface.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    \"little-used\" instead of \"little-known\".\r\n\r\nBTW, what I call \"type squatting\",
    the practice of hogging the rights to a highly desired and/or culturally significant
    typeface with only a hypothetical interest in and/or ability of actually releasing
    it, personally bothers me much more than any pricing scheme ever could.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-17 04:25:19'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: Cheers Hrant (again). Can I assume from what you say that TEFF are 'type squatting'
    Cancellaresca B? At least no-one's knocking it off in the meantime then ; )
  created: '2006-09-17 05:17:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I can't know (of course). I just get bad vibes like that sometimes, and CB
    isn't the only such case of theirs. The classic defense of course is We Have The
    Right. But I think there's also something to be said for abruptly giving away
    a right that you have, for the greater good; saying for example: \"Dear world,
    I am too busy and/or too ambivalent, so you may have CB to do with as you please.
    Have a blast, and godspeed.\" That would be so amazingly gracious and magnanimous
    - the stuff of legend - and free, nutritious food for culture to thrive on.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-17 05:44:49'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: 'I think Cancellaresca Bastarda was "knocked off," a very long time ago. Richard
    Beatty Designs came out with Romulus Bastarda, which as far as I can tell is both
    Romulus and the Cancellaresca. It''s obviously not an authorized version and I
    have never seen it for sale. He may never have released it publically. He sort
    of disappeared from the scene but was championed somewhat in Stephen Moye''s Fontographer:
    Type by Design.'
  created: '2006-09-17 06:46:30'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">comprises of three weights\r\n\r\nNot really helping the discussion, but
    \u2018of\u2018 in this phrase is not required.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-09-17 09:23:33'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "Hrant\r\n\r\nPerhaps my tone on TEFF is a bit harsh and therefore obscuring
    my point. I would very much like to use Trinit\xE9, but (1) I can't afford the
    TEFF license (which is my problem and nothing to be angry about with TEFF) and
    (2) I wouldn't even want to use their font software, because it's \"technologically
    trivial\". I am not angry with TEFF, but rather got \"bad vibes\", as you call
    it, on their \"type squatting\". TEFF has the exclusive right of producing and
    distributing Trinit\xE9. If they hadn't, I would produce it myself, or would welcome
    some or more foundries to do so. I would accept high pricing only, if the fonts
    shipped as OpenType, with complete glyph sets, proper hinting and with a fair
    EULA.\r\n\r\nI didn't mean to imply that Bram de Does doesn't agree with the pricing.
    I wouldn't know, since I didn't meet de Does yet. All I hear of him, is that he's
    a very sensitive and modest person, and certainly not the kind of fellow who needs
    \"to be compensated materially for [him] to engage in making good type\". I also
    know that back in the metal/photo composition days when he was still working at
    Ensched\xE9 (the original), font production was extremely expensive and pricing
    accordingly high. And it's a known fact that when market leader Adobe lowered
    it's fees in the 1990s, digital fonts became way cheaper \u2014 except for those
    of TEFF. Perhaps de Does is not aware of the pity stock flows in DTP world.\r\n\r\nYour
    argument on the piracy/pricing issue, I can follow. But then again, let's be real:
    it's only fonts! There are lots of things in this world that deserve protection,
    type design and font production included. Nonetheless should the protective measures
    be in accordance with the value of the protected good <cite>and</cite> to the
    likeliness or proportion of its theft. How many people out there have an interest
    in type? And is it so bad that if someone <cite>gets</cite> interested after all,
    he wants to try out? Hey, let that kid alone, till he decides to become another
    brick in the wall and uses the font for commercial purposes. Really, in the whole
    of human culture and its economy, fonts are not a big think.\r\n\r\nTrinit\xE9
    doesn't need \"fancy ligature code\", since it forms its ligatures automatically
    by its design \u2014 in fact it was the first design to do so. And you're completely
    right that the magic and quality of type \"is in its notan\", if you mean even
    spacing and overall even greyness by that. de Does spent a lot of effort on it,
    whereas TEFF just copied the original sidebearings. Coding for automatic glyph
    substitution, ligatures or otherwise, is however a conditio sine qua non in today's
    high-end font production.\r\n \r\n* As for the spelling issue: thanks for the
    suggestion. I am however natively Dutch speaking and have a degree in philology."
  created: '2006-09-17 11:47:01'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "Ben \u2014 Your summary is all right; Trinit\xE9 sure is exclusive.\r\n\r\nAs
    for Jan van Krimpen's Cancellaresca Bastarda. All of van Krimpen's designs were
    acquired by Peter Matthias Noordzij's brother-in-law Frank Blokland from the Dutch
    Type Library; DTL is not allied with TEFF. Potential \"type squatting\" of the
    Cancellaresca is on the part of DTL, not TEFF. Last time I spoke with Blokland,
    and asked him after his plans with the Cancellaresca, he said that he likely would
    not digitise it in the near future, since it has no commercial importance.\r\n\r\nHrant
    \u2014 I am as much as you offended by what you call \"type squatting\". This
    is really my point with TEFF. We all agree Jan van Krimpen is a classic in type
    design. So is de Does. And, perhaps, so is S.H. De Roos. Alas, how very much we'd
    like to use their typefaces (digitally), we are not allowed to do so. Either because
    the fonts that are issued by the monopolists that hold the rights of reproduction,
    are way too expensive or their software is outdated, either because the monopolists
    regard us as too bibliophilistic, financially incapable and hence undeserving
    clients to make the effort for of producing these classics. Classics, by the way
    that belong \"to the 'patrimoine humaine', not them \" (cfr http://typophile.com/node/6411#5)."
  created: '2006-09-17 11:52:20'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>Technically speaking, their products are outdated and incomplete. I
    think lots of small foundries out there could do a much better job and likely
    would sell their product at more appropriate fees.</cite>\r\n\r\nTEFF was one
    of the first foundries to publish Euro-glyphs for all their fonts\u2026\r\n\r\nSure,
    TEFF-fonts are quite expensive, but compare it to the cost of a single fount from
    Berthold in the \"old days\" \u2014 not excessive at all, I think.\r\nNow consider
    the cost to a designer who wants to compose a publication with Trinit\xE9. You'll
    NEVER use all of the variants in one book, so it's a matter of selecting the variants
    needed. The more complex your subject matter, the more you'll probably need. But
    \u2014 guess what \u2014 the more complex a design, the more you'll charge for
    it. So what's the big deal? For a simple book you'll probably need no more than
    three cuts and that's 790 euro. Quite reasonable imho."
  created: '2006-09-17 16:37:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The Dutch spelling thing I learned from a Dutchman who sounded like he knew
    what he was talking about on the ATypI list. And I think I've since heard it elsewhere
    too.\r\n\r\n> the magic and quality of type \u201Cis in its notan\u201D,\r\n>
    if you mean even spacing and overall even greyness\r\n\r\nSpacing is fully half
    the story (and the hidden half) but I've actually come to realize that even color
    isn't the true objective; good notan lives around the threshold of too much divergence
    and too little. You can see this for example in the difficulty of making a lowercase
    \"g\" that's neither distracting nor too homogenous with the rest of the alphabet.\r\n\r\n>
    S.H. De Roos\r\n\r\nIn fact I've been an admirer of the italics especially of
    his eponymous typeface, and would love to see it released [from captivity].\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-17 16:41:30'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "Bert \u2014 Comparison to \"the old days\" simply doesn't make sense. I am
    speaking of today and the pricing scheme of one foundry to another. In the old
    days type production was a cumbersome and cost-intensive process: punches were
    chiseled by hand, matrices being struck and justified by hand, type was founded
    in costly alloys and so forth. Or different trials were executed with highly expensive
    glass or film material. Not mentioning the cost of dedicated typesetting systems
    and plate setters. Back in 1985 a Mac was really a bargain in relation to those
    one billion dollar systems; compared with the newest MacPro, though, it was outrageously
    expensive. But nobody makes that comparison. Technology evolves and so do price
    settings with it. Or at least they should.\r\n\r\nSure, not all the different
    variants of a type family are needed in one project. So what? I might, one day,
    still need this or that variant and likely will not be happy having to purchase
    the extra fonts at a cost which in the end is twice the price of the bundle. Certainly
    not when a similar amount of variants and versatility is offered in that one package
    I didn't buy, from another foundry/vendor, at one tenth of that price. I also
    wonder what's the big deal with those variants: weight/width interpolations, adding
    or modifying the ascenders/descenders of only eleven glyphs. Yes, yes, \"in the
    old days\"\u2026 I know, then these variants were cut by hand, one by one, and
    founded on different body sizes.\r\n\r\nHrant \u2014 thanks for the clarification.
    Could one say \"notan\" is the equivalent of what the Germans call \"Rhythmus\"
    or \"Duktus\"? You're completely right that more than spacing is involved. De
    Roos Romein \u2014 sigh\u2026 What a beauty! I have this Lettergieterij Amsterdam
    specimen book with the full range and I too hope to one day see it on screen and
    printed by offset or ppl. You know what? Over there in the U.S., type designs
    are themselves not protected (read: kept in custody) by copyright laws\u2026 "
  created: '2006-09-17 17:27:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Notan is the unity-relation of black and white. It is essentially what allows
    us to read, and not related to rhythm (which I contend doesn't actually exist
    at the level of type, not as far as the reader is concerned) or ductus.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    not that I would consider reviving De Roos myself, but the one place I've had
    a good look at it was not available for scanning or even photcopying, so if you
    could put up some nice hi-res scans of your specimens (especially mid-range and
    small sizes, as well as a large size of the italic) that would be highly appreciated.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Rhythmus.be
      picture: 111885
    body: "Hrant \u2014 I made the scans you asked for and put them here (for now):\r\n\r\nhttp://perswww.kuleuven.be/~u0043518/deroos_600ppi_1.jpg\r\n\r\nhttp://perswww.kuleuven.be/~u0043518/deroos_600ppi_2.jpg\r\n\r\nhttp://perswww.kuleuven.be/~u0043518/deroos_600ppi_3.jpg\r\n\r\nhttp://perswww.kuleuven.be/~u0043518/deroos_600ppi_4.jpg\r\n\r\nhttp://perswww.kuleuven.be/~u0043518/deroos_600ppi_5.jpg\r\n\r\nI
      guess this is stuff for a new thread: http://typophile.com/node/28292. This
      one is becoming tedious, rehearsing the old same crap of \"I grant this price
      to be outrageous!\" vs. \"I don't!\" (Ay, guilty, mea culpa.) Anyhow, we're
      discussing the right things on the wrong forum.\r\n\r\nIf, against all expectations,
      you <cite>would</cite> manage to digitise this typeface, please keep me informed
      \u2014 I told Blokland I would like to revive the De Roos Romein myself, until
      I heard of copyright restrictions in the E.U. I am nevertheless not sure who
      owns the rights: Blokland was quite vague on this.\r\n\r\nBy the way,  if you
      would ever release the fonts, please, keep those damn license fees down!"
    created: '2006-09-17 22:21:57'
  created: '2006-09-17 19:28:58'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "BTW, did you notice the sample text in the Italic specimen?\r\n\r\n<cite>wegen
    ihrer feinen und zierlichen Formgebung verleiht Sie </cite>[sic] <cite>einer Seite
    gerade den erw\xFCnschten Unterschied ohne die Einheitlichkeit auch nur wenig
    zu st\xF6ren.</cite>\r\n\r\nThinking of your definition of \"notan\"\u2026 I actually
    read those specimen texts just now, which \u2014 appropriately to finish (?) this
    thread \u2014 reminds me of Gerrit Noordzij: \"Perhaps typographers never read.\""
  created: '2006-09-17 22:34:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ludwig, thank you so much for those scans - keepers for sure.\r\n\r\nMan,
    look at the sober grace of that italic. Just amazing.\r\nMakes what we usually
    get look like a gaggle of drunken whores.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-18 04:11:22'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Hrant\r\n\r\nWe printed a ton of certificates in De Roos back in the USC
    Fine Press days. Next time you are in I'll dig them out. Great face. In metal
    though, very brittle as a result of the casting process used. We had to be very
    careful with it.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-09-18 04:31:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Super. It might be a early as this Tuesday, but don't rush on my account.\r\n\r\nWas
    it brittle because of the alloy?\r\nSomething to do with supplies after the war
    perhaps?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-18 04:43:44'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Hi\r\n\r\nYeah, good guess. Certain kinds of foundry typefaces were cast
    with different alloys. Scripts were made quite hard which also made them brittle.
    Same with the De Roos; it didn't wear down, it just chipped.\r\n\r\nProbably could
    get them together by the Tuesday after next.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-09-18 06:11:08'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Thank you Tim and Ludwig for the feedback about the summary; the thread has
    provided me with (yet) more stuff I wasn't entirely sure about ... so, now to
    revise what I'd written about CB... so little time, so many faces.\r\n\r\nI too
    admire the work of De Roos. Thanks for sharing the scanned examples you put up
    Ludwig."
  created: '2006-09-18 07:28:59'
date: '2006-09-16 00:12:25'
node_type: font_id
title: "(x) Unidentified serif face (Noordzij?) - Sudum (unpublished) {Philipp J\xFCttner}"

---
