---
author:
  name: Miguel Sousa
  picture: 110242
body: "If you're using the new [[AFDKO]] (v2.0), we would like to hear your feedback.
  Please use this thread for your comments, wishes, concerns, bugs found, and/or anything
  related with the tools contained in the new AFDKO. Thanks!\r\n\r\nAndreas <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/20033?from=50#comment-158270\">has
  already started</a>."
comments:
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Overall, it runs and I'm able to compile the projects from 1.6.\r\n\r\nI
    like to know how to set up usWinAscent and usWinDescent.\r\n\r\ntable OS/2 {\r\nTypoAscender
    765;\r\nTypoDescender -235;\r\nTypoLineGap 250;\r\nusWinAscent 900;\r\nusWinDescent
    -350;\r\n} OS/2;\r\n\r\nThis is not working, why?\r\n\r\n1. the mystery of -nr\r\n\r\nIf
    I use a project file I got lots of the time: [FATAL] unrecognized option (-nr).\r\nNow
    I found out it its related to the option:\r\nReleaseMode\ttrue  \r\nBut if you
    set it to false, the -nr fatal error comes up. So better use\r\n#ReleaseMode\ttrue
    (vs) ReleaseMode\tfalse\r\n\r\n2. relative paths under windows only by using -fp
    option with *.fpr file.\r\n\r\n3. This message seems to be a general one since
    it comes everytime. Can we turn it off since its not specific to the font?\r\n\r\nmakeotfexe.exe
    [NOTE] There are -12851 instances of the deprecated \u201Cexcept\u201D syntax
    in the feature file. Though such statements are processed correctly by this parser
    for backward compatibility, please update them to the newer \u201Ci gnore substitute\u201D
    syntax. For example, change \u201Cexcept a @LET sub a by a.end;\u201D to \u201Cignore
    sub a @LET; sub a\u2019 by a.end;\u201D. (Note that the second rule is now required
    to be marked to identify it as a Chain Contextual and not a Single Substituti\r\non
    rule.)\r\n\r\nSo far I tested the makeotf programm only. \r\n\r\nThe FontLab scripts
    installer seems not to work under python 2.2 win xp.\r\n\r\nline 134 and 105\r\nNameError:
    global name '__file__' is not defined\r\n\r\nSo I tryed to move the files manually.
    No script is running. Maybe this is related no path was added to the python site
    packages by the installer. So what path should we set manually?\r\n\r\nExample,
    the Auto-Hint script\r\n\r\nTraceback (most recent call last):\r\n  File \"<string>\",
    line 70, in ?\r\nImportError: No module named string\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nwin xp sp2,
    FL5, Python 2.2\r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2006-09-16 17:39:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bravo Miguel. I look forward to giving it a spin.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-16 18:03:44'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "> [...]\r\n> usWinAscent 900;\r\n> usWinDescent -350;\r\n> ) OS/2;\r\n\r\nThe
    Feature File Syntax says:\r\nwinAscent\r\nwinDescent"
  created: '2006-09-16 19:17:44'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "and makeotf says: \r\nsyntax error at \"WinAscent\" missing \"}\"\r\n\r\nok
    fixed, since \"WinAscent\" is not the same like \"winAscent\" :-)\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    miss to give the makeotf the path and name of the fontinfo file. Is it no longer
    needed? \r\n\r\nBTW. Its not commen this file is called \"fontinfo\" everytime
    and placed in the path of yourfont.pfa. For example I call it _fontinfo.txt. Other
    developers place it under other paths call it with an other name. So if the new
    FDK is looking \"hard coded\" for \"fontinfo\" it can't find it.\r\n\r\nMy first
    impression is, in points of usability, this fdk has some serious back steps compared
    to 1.6. Its bound the developers special workflow. :-( \r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\"
    target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Read Roberts
    body: "Hi Andreas,\r\n\r\nAs Miguel has noted, the correct feature file keywords
      are described in the file \"FDK/Technical Documentation/OT Feature File Syntax.html\"\r\n\r\nThe
      \"fontinfo\" file is no longer required, and when used, makeotf pays attention
      to only a few parameters. The way things work now is that makeotf will llook
      , in order, in three sources for parameters settings:\r\n - the fontinfo file,
      if there is one\r\n - the project file\r\n - the command line\r\nIf the different
      sources specify different settings, the last one seen wins.\r\n\r\nIf you use
      a project file, you have no need to use a fontinfo file at all, and would do
      better to not have one, in order to avoid possible conflicting options.  I agree
      that if you *do* use a fontinfo file, it would be better to be abel to specify
      a path - I will add this to makeotf with the next bug fix release.\r\n\r\nI
      am pleased to hear that you do use the project files. I thought it would be
      useful to have this option, but no one at Adobe uses them, and your e-mail is
      the first evidence that I have seen that anyone else does, either. I wil llook
      into the '-nr' problem under Windows.\r\n\r\nThe easiest way to supress the
      complain about use of the 'except' clause in in the feature file is to change
      from using \"except' to 'ignore\".\r\n\r\n- Read Roberts\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2006-09-18 06:00:24'
  created: '2006-09-16 19:24:54'
- author:
    name: titus n.
    picture: 109952
  body: "i experienced the same problems with the scripts as andreas described; any
    solutions yet?\r\nt."
  created: '2006-09-17 12:40:38'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Karsten is right. The correct parameter names are <strong>winAscent</strong>
    and <strong>winDescent</strong>, which are case-sensitive. For a complete list
    of the parameters that can be specified by the FDK, in regards to the OS/2 table,
    please refer to the file 'OT Feature File Syntax.html', section 9.f. OS/2 table.\r\n\r\nAs
    for the file <strong>fontinfo</strong>, please refer to the documentation file
    'MakeOTFUserGuide.pdf', page 9."
  created: '2006-09-17 12:52:06'
- author:
    name: titus n.
    picture: 109952
  body: "i updated my python installation and now the install macros scripts works;
    nevertheless, most of the scripts don't.\r\nfor example 'autohint' gives me:\r\n\r\nTraceback
    (most recent call last):\r\n  File \"<string>\", line 798, in ?\r\nImportError:
    No module named win32api\r\n\r\nthe 'adobe-update scripts' script, however, seems
    to work.\r\n\r\ni checked other non-FDK scripts and they also work fine.\r\n\r\nwinxp,
    FL 5.0.2, python 2.4.3"
  created: '2006-09-17 13:30:50'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Not using a PC for this, but my guess is win32api is an 'external' Python
    library which you have to grab somewhere and install in addition to python and
    fdk.
  created: '2006-09-17 13:41:15'
- author:
    name: titus n.
    picture: 109952
  body: "thanks karsten,\r\n\r\ni downloaded the win32api.dll and placed it into various
    places that seemed appropriate: the windows system folder, the python dll folder,
    the fontlab modules folder.\r\n\r\neventually the error changed, but was not solved:\r\n\r\nTraceback
    (most recent call last):\r\n  File \"<string>\", line 798, in ?\r\nImportError:
    DLL load failed: Das angegebene Modul wurde nicht gefunden.\r\n\r\nin line 798
    AutoHint.py tries to import the win32api.dll and the win32con.py; i also downloaded
    the latter and placed it into the fl modules folder - with no changes in behaviour.
    \r\n\r\nif __name__ == '__main__':\r\n\tdontShowDialog = 1\r\n\tif \thaveAC:\r\n\t\tresult
    = 2\r\n\t\tif os.name == \"nt\":\r\n\t\t\timport win32api\r\n\t\t\timport win32con\r\n\r\nany
    ideas?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Read Roberts
    body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nMy apologies - I see that the dependency on the  win32api and
      win32com.py modules in the Windows version is not documented. I will fix this
      in the next release. Note that they have to be installed in one of the directories
      which is in the sys.path list of your Python. The only directory under FontLab's
      Macros directory which is in this list is in Macros/System/Modules.  Did you
      put both these modules in one of the directories in sys.path?\r\n\r\nAnother
      limitation is that the AutoHint and CheckOutlines modules use C extension modules
      that are linked for use with Python 2.3 ( aka FontLab 5) and won't work with
      Python 2.2 ( aka FontLab 2.2).\r\n\r\n- Read Roberts"
    created: '2006-09-18 06:10:06'
  created: '2006-09-17 14:30:10'
- author:
    name: lunde
    picture: 111902
  body: "AFDKO Version 2.0 includes several new tools, and I recently authored a new
    Adobe Tech Note, #5900, to act as a tutorial for three of them, specifically for
    mergeFonts, rotateFont, and autohint. This Adobe Tech Note will be available at
    the following URL: http://partners.adobe.com/public/developer/font/index.html\r\n\r\nAnd,
    it will be included in the next release of AFDKO. Until then, if anyone would
    like to receive this Adobe Tech Note, contact me by email.\r\n\r\nKen Lunde\r\nSenior
    Computer Scientist, CJKV Type Development\r\nAdobe Systems Incorporated\r\nlunde@adobe.com"
  created: '2006-09-18 02:37:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Ken! I'll take you up on that.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-18 04:02:37'
- author:
    name: titus n.
    picture: 109952
  body: "read,\r\n\r\n<cite >Note that they have to be installed in one of the directories
    which is in the sys.path list of your Python. The only directory under FontLab\u2019s
    Macros directory which is in this list is in Macros/System/Modules. Did you put
    both these modules in one of the directories in sys.path?</cite>\r\n\r\nthis is
    actually what i've done, yet, it doesn't work. i also added a path file to the
    site-packages folder (just like the one created by the FDK) - but it makes no
    difference. fontlab (or python) still reports that the library can't be found.\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Read Roberts
    body: "One current problem with Python extension modules is that they work only
      with the version of Python for which they were built. It is possible that your
      win32api module doesn't match your Python. Another possibility is that the win32api
      module may have dependencies on other modules. I will echo Adam Twardoch's good
      advice and recommend that you download the entire win32 package. However, I
      will add that you need to pick the right one that works with the version of
      Python that you have. I actually used \"pywin32-205.win32-py2.3.exe\"  to install
      the win32 package for my co-workers at Adobe.  This translates as \"build 205
      of the win32 package, built for Python 2.3\". The newer builds of win32 ought
      to work, as long as they are built for the Python you are using. These can be
      found at:\r\n  http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=78018\r\n\r\nNote
      that the AFDK0 FontLab scripts are built to work with Python 2.3. Autohint and
      CheckOutlines in particular use extension modules that are tied to specifically
      to Python 2.3; the others assume in some places support for operations that
      exist only in 2.3 and later.\r\n\r\n- Read"
    created: '2006-09-18 22:42:10'
  created: '2006-09-18 10:36:48'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Windows users should install the win32all package: \r\nhttp://www.python.net/crew/mhammond/win32/Downloads.html\r\n\r\nIt
    includes the win32api etc. modules. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-09-18 12:22:41'
- author:
    name: titus n.
    picture: 109952
  body: i was aware of the version interdependence and installed the extensions accordingly.
    which didn't solve it. right now i am trying to get it to work with python 2.3.5
    - not successful yet. i'll check back for new developments.
  created: '2006-09-19 14:12:45'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Read, \r\n\r\nany chance that Adobe could also release AFDKO 2.0 compiled
    for Python 2.4? \r\n\r\nA."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Read Roberts
    body: Yes, I can build the Python 2.4 libs as well, for the next update in a few
      weeks. Note that this affects only the FDK Check Outlines and Auto Hint scripts
      - the command -line tools are entirely independent of any installed Python,
      and none of the other scripts for FontLab use a Python extension module.
    created: '2006-09-22 17:50:05'
  created: '2006-09-19 18:46:25'
- author:
    name: croth
  body: "Good soul mind to post screenshot(s) how to install AFDKO (v2.0)? \r\n\r\n-
    C."
  created: '2006-09-26 01:03:46'
- author:
    name: Read Roberts
  body: The file "FDK/Read_Me_First.html" explains how to install the AFDKO v2.0
  created: '2006-09-26 05:45:48'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "I have tried the Autohinter for a couple of project, and it feels very nice.
    Sometimes when autohinting with FontLabs own hinter, I got a couple of red \"H\"
    that I didnt know how to fix.\r\n\r\nAdobes autohinter creates all green H\u2019s
    ;-) I also kind of like that the log shows exactly what the autohinter did do
    to the font.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-26 08:10:33'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Maybe a bug or a bug in the documentation, since the example doc shows the
    winDescent value with a minus.\r\n\r\nThe winDescent value have to be written
    without minus. Otherwise the font will be currupted and crashes instandly my xp
    system.\r\n\r\nexample for correct compilation:\r\n\r\n<code>\r\n  table hhea
    {\r\n     Ascender 900;\r\n     Descender -350; # not 350\r\n     LineGap 0;\r\n
    \ } hhea\r\n</code>\r\n<code>\r\n  table OS/2 {\r\n       TypoAscender 765;\r\n
    \      TypoDescender -235;\r\n       TypoLineGap 250;\r\n       winAscent 900;\r\n
    \      winDescent 350; # not -350\r\n       Panose 2 2 5 2 6 5 6 2 4 3;\r\n       XHeight
    455;\r\n       CapHeight 720;\r\n       FSType 4;\r\n       WeightClass   \t400;\r\n
    \      WidthClass    \t5;  \r\n  } OS/2;\r\n</code>\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\"
    target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2006-09-28 08:44:49'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Adobes autohinter creates all green H\u2019s ;-)</em>\r\n\r\nThis reminds
    me of something.\r\nWhat I'm going to say might be obvious to many of you, but
    just wanted to make clear that in order to get good/proper hinting results, Alignment
    Zones and Standard Stems need to be set beforehand."
  created: '2006-09-30 16:13:29'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Miguel, in your opinion; do you thinks it\u2019s OK to do this with FontLab\u2019s
    auto-stems and auto alignment zones? When it comes to these matters, I really
    like the word Auto :)\r\n\r\nGoran, Autodidakt\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-30 16:26:07'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Goran, I here you there ;^)\r\n\r\nI'd follow <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/15436#comment-113296\">Adam's
    tip</a>, with a couple additional steps:\r\n...\r\n1.1. Check that the auto Alignment
    Zones are good, i.e. they should cover all the \"overshoot nodes\". Eventually,
    you might want to shift some of these points a few units up or down.\r\n...\r\n5.
    Run Adobe's Autohint\r\n\r\nThat's all  :^)"
  created: '2006-09-30 16:46:39'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: Great advices! Thanks for that.
  created: '2006-09-30 17:13:08'
- author:
    name: preusss
    picture: 109514
  body: "If I compile my old Postscript-data in FDK2 its all ok. \r\nIf the font-data
    newer (in Studio 5 generated), I have this errormessage on screen.\r\nAny suggestions?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FDK2_5540.gif]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: preusss
      picture: 109514
    body: "If in font.ps\r\n/Notice (Copyright \xA9 2006 something. All Rights Reserved.)
      readonly def\r\n... Error\r\n\r\nIf in font.ps\r\n/Notice (Copyright <strong>(c)</strong>
      2006 something. All Rights Reserved.) readonly def\r\n... no problem\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s
      all. Sorry.\r\n\r\n[preusss]"
    created: '2006-10-01 09:31:35'
  - author:
      name: Read Roberts
    body: "Hi preusss,\r\n\r\nThis happens because makeotf is compiled with debug
      libraries, and will show a dialog like this whenver a low-level assetion that
      checks data integrity fails. The problem here is most llikely one of encoding,
      that one of the input files has characer codes above low ASCII, like an umlaut.
      I suggest checking:\r\nthe feature file \"_features.txt\"\r\nthe menu name file
      \"\"FMNDB_Prillwitz.txt\"\r\nthe GOADB file \"GOA_GTF.txt\"\r\nby cutting them
      down to just a stub with only some safe text, and then adding the original text
      back in a section at a time, to find the problem. It is not legal to use high-ASCII
      characters in glyph names. It is legal in some of the name table names, but
      you must represent these character codes as hex codes in the feature file. For
      example, the char code for  the \"copyright\"  glyph is \"\\00a9\" for Windows
      menu names, and \"\\a9\" for Mac menu names; you can see this in the \"features.name\"
      exampel file in the \"Example Font Sources\". The character codes for the Windows
      platofrm names are Unicode values, for the Mac they are Mac Roman ecnodign values.\r\n\r\n-
      Read Roberts\r\n"
    created: '2006-10-03 20:12:03'
  created: '2006-09-30 23:15:07'
- author:
    name: preusss
    picture: 109514
  body: "No value or key in FDK 2 for <strong>renumber</strong>?\r\nrenumber yes|no
    \  # Increment the head table FontRevision field"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Read Roberts
    body: "Other people have complained about how the FDK 2.0 makeotf doesn't have
      a \"renumber\" option. The bug fix version , due in a few weeks, will have one.\r\n"
    created: '2006-10-03 19:36:34'
  created: '2006-09-30 23:33:16'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Andreas, as regards your latest example:\r\n\r\nSomeone please correct me
    if I'm wrong, but I think that (as for OS/2 TypoDescender) hhea Descender must
    be a negative value:\r\n\r\ntable hhea (\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Ascender 900;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Descender
    -350;&nbsp;&nbsp;# not 350\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;LineGap 0;\r\n) hhea;\r\n\r\nOS/2
    winDescent is the only below-the-baseline value which must be stated with a positive
    value! (The FLS5 FontInfo interface asks for a negative winDescent value for reasons
    of consistency and user-friendliness.)\r\nAs to the feature file syntax document,
    sections 9.d and 9.f -- it seems it's just minor copy/paste errors.\r\n\r\nKarsten\r\n\r\n[Third
    editing now. Hope there are no mistakes left ...]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: andreas
      picture: 110541
    body: "Thank you Karsten, yes the hhea Descender needs a negative value. I corrected
      my example above.\r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
    created: '2006-10-01 11:37:41'
  created: '2006-10-01 01:12:19'
- author:
    name: preusss
    picture: 109514
  body: "What means this errormessages (comparefamily):\r\n<code>\r\nSingle Face Test
    6:\r\n...\r\nError: Environment variable CF_DEFAULT_URL is not set, so I can't
    compare it to  Mac Foundry URL name id 11.\r\nError: Environment variable CF_DEFAULT_FOUNDRY_CODE
    is not set, so I can't compare it to  the OS/2 table foundry code.</code>\r\n\r\n[preusss]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Read Roberts
    body: "Both the Windows XP and Mac OSX operating systems have things called \"environment
      variables\", which have a name and a text value. compareFamily looks for two
      environment variables with the names shown in the error messages that you saw.
      If present, it uses the values to compare with values in the font, and complains
      if  font values and the environment variable values are not the same. \r\n\r\nTo
      read how to set environment variables  in Windows, see::\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/environment_variables.mspx?mfr=true\r\n\r\nFor
      Mac OSX,  open a command-line window (aka the Terminal program) and first try
      the command:\r\nCF_DEFAULT_FOUNDRY_CODE=\"ADBE\" \r\nIf this works , you then
      enter the command\r\n\"export CF_DEFAULT_FOUNDRY_CODE\"\r\nand it is set for
      any programs that you run by entering commands in this window. To make the setting
      permanent, create/edit the file in your home directory named \".profile\", and
      add in the file the same two  commands that you tried.\r\n\r\nIf the first command
      produced the response \"Command not found\", then the Terminal window is using
      the tcsh shell program to process the command lines, and the commands to set
      the variable are:\r\nsetenv  CF_DEFAULT_FOUNDRY_CODE \"ADBE\"\r\nexport CF_DEFAULT_FOUNDRY_CODE\r\n\r\nand
      to make the settings pemanent, you shoud certate or edit the file in your home
      directory named \".cshrc\", and add these commands.\r\n \r\nOf course, you should
      use your values for the 4 letter foundry code and for the name ID 11 fondry
      URL, rather than the values for Adobe.\r\n"
    created: '2006-10-03 19:35:09'
  created: '2006-10-02 17:08:50'
- author:
    name: peterbruhn
    picture: 110509
  body: "Update: Sorry, I should have installed a fresher version of Stuffit Expander
    before posting. Everything works fine now!  :-D  Playtime!\r\n\r\n\r\nAm I the
    only one who can't UnStuff the Mac file? \r\nI get an error everytime. I want
    to play."
  created: '2006-10-03 14:18:12'
- author:
    name: Read Roberts
  body: "Anyone using FDK 1.6 feature files needs to read the following\r\n\r\nDavid
    Agg asked why his FDK 1.6 feature file was failing at the lines:\r\n> feature
    kern {\r\n>   language ROM;\r\n\r\nAnswer:\r\n\r\nThis works in the FDK 1.6, because
    the default script is \u2018latn\u2019; you get the same effect is if you had
    written\r\n script latn;\r\n language ROM;\r\n\r\nHowever, in the FDK 2.0, the
    default script is \u201CDFLT\u201D, so the effect is saying:\r\n script DFLT;\r\n
    language ROM;\r\n\r\n and the only legal language tag for the DFLT script is the
    \u2018dflt\u2019 language.\r\n\r\nTo get what you want, you should put the lines:\r\n
    languagesystem DFLT dflt;\r\n languagesystem latn dflt;\r\n languagesystem latn
    ROM;\r\n\r\nat  the beginning of the feature file; all features not registered
    under a specific language will then be registered under these three script/language
    pairs.\r\n\r\nIn features where you specify any language or script, you need to
    spell out all  the script language combinations, and explicitly include the appropriate
    features under each, e.g\r\n script DFLT;\r\nlanguage dflt;\r\nlookup LOOKUP_1
    {\r\n   ... lots of rules\r\n} LOOKUP_1;\r\n\r\nscript latn;\r\n language ROM;\r\nlookup
    LOOKUP_1; # reference to the previously defined LOOKUP_1,\r\n                             #
    so that it will be included under latn-ROM as well as DFLT-dflt.\r\n\r\nThe compareFamily
    tool now dumps a table of script/languages vs  sets of lookups, so you can see
    what\u2019s actually in the font.\r\n You should look at this when you are working
    out new script/language settings in the feature file.\r\n\r\n- Read Roberts\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-03 20:24:24'
- author:
    name: Read Roberts
  body: "Problems with the FDK 2.0  and FontLab on Windows.\r\n\r\nSome people have
    seen that when they add the FDK executable directory \"FDK/Tools/win\" to their
    PATH variable, that FontLab starts behaving badly - macros disappear, and other
    odd things. If this happens to you, remove the FDK directory from the PATH variable,
    and don't install the FDK. The next release in a few weeks will fix this.\r\n\r\nThe
    problem is that the PATH variable is used by Windows as the list of directories
    to search for not only programs, but also libraries. 'FDK/Tools/win\" contains
    Python and system libraries that may conflict with what FontLab uses. Thanks to
    John Hudson, who put up with a lot of e-mails and tests to help figure out what
    was wrong.\r\n\r\n- Read Roberts"
  created: '2006-10-04 19:10:38'
- author:
    name: preusss
    picture: 109514
  body: "Hi Read,\r\n\r\nmany tnx.\r\n\r\n[preusss]"
  created: '2006-10-05 11:11:54'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "i'm trying to get the AutoHinter to work on PC running the macro from within
    FLS5, but i get the following error:\r\n\r\n<code>Traceback (most recent call
    last):\r\n  File \"<string>\", line 75, in ?\r\nImportError: No module named plistlib</code>\r\n\r\nwhat
    do i do when i have missing modules?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Aleme
      picture: 111268
    body: "Hi! paul ,\r\n\r\ndid you figure out what to do when modules are missing
      ?\r\n\r\nI have the same problem.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2006-10-09 06:47:29'
  - author:
      name: Read Roberts
    body: "The FDK for Windows is missing the module plist.py. This is part of the
      standard Mac Python installation. It is used by the AutoHint script. See fi
      you can get someone with a  Mac to send it to you, else wait  two to four weeks
      for the next update for the FDK to fix the various installation issues.\r\n\r\n
      If you then have the problem \"importError: No module named PyACDebug\", there
      is a deeper problem on Windows where the FDK can conflict with the the Ptyhon
      associated witth FontLab. The solution for this is to wait for the next FDK
      build : it will fix this, and support both Python 2.3 and 2.4 with FontLab.\r\n"
    created: '2006-10-18 17:24:58'
  created: '2006-10-05 15:45:34'
- author:
    name: croth
  body: "\"Good soul mind to post screenshot(s) how to install AFDKO (v2.0)?\"\r\n\r\n\"The
    file \u201CFDK/Read_Me_First.html\u201D explains how to install the AFDKO v2.0\"\r\n\r\nI
    am lost with tech. Did not understand. \r\n\r\n\r\nThanks!!!\r\n\r\n- C."
  created: '2006-10-06 07:49:05'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Anon Bug\r\n\r\nAnonymous data blocks will be ignored by the FDK. I have
    tried different positions in the feature file. The FDK compiles it without any
    error message but the resulting font file have always the same byte length like
    the font without the anon block, so my gues no anonymous block was added. \r\n\r\nNo
    luck too with the example form the tech doc \"10. Specifying anonymous data blocks\".\r\n\r\n--<a
    href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2006-10-07 19:48:32'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "To spare yourself from having some problems while trying to use the AFDKO,
    install the tools in paths that contain NO space characters. Also, do the same
    with the folders and files you're working with.\r\n\r\nFor example, CompareFamily
    won't work if the font files are inside a folder named \"My Folder\"."
  created: '2006-10-08 22:20:09'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Sorry if this is a stupid question but it seems that the old .fpr files from
    my old projects are not recognised anymore. Has the format changed? \r\n\r\nThe
    example font provided does not include a .fpr file - is there an example .fpr
    file available anywhere?\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-08 22:45:55'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "hi Tim, no FDK2 training on the TypeTech week?\r\n\r\nYes, the format have
    changed.\r\n\r\nmakeotf -fp bla.fpr\r\n<code>\r\nFeaturePath Std\\_Reg\\features.txt\r\nFontMenuDBPath
    FontMenuNameDB.txt\r\nGlyphAliasDBPath GOA.txt\r\nInputFontPath Std\\_Reg\\yourfont.pfa\r\nOutputFontPath
    ready\\yourfont.otf\r\nDoAliasAndOrder true\r\nDoSubroutinization true\r\nReleaseMode
    true\r\n</code>\r\nDon't try to set something above to \"false\", just let the
    line out.\r\n\r\nOr you should try a batch file\r\n<code>\r\nmakeotf -f yourfont.pfa
    -o yourfont.otf -ff features.txt -mf FontMenuName.txt -gf GOA.txt -S -ga\r\n</code>\r\n\r\n--<a
    href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2006-10-08 23:18:13'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Thanks, Andreas.\r\nIt worked. Slowly getting there.\r\n\r\nBatch files are
    a good idea - they are so much more comfortable than the real command line. I
    already used them with the old FDK. Plus, batch files allow you to compile a whole
    family at once.\r\n\r\nAlternatively, you can set up a shortcut to your python.exe,
    go to the properties and manually add \"(path)\\MakeOTF.py -fp\" and then drag
    any .fpr file on it. You could have several shortcuts with different additional
    options added.\r\n\r\nOr, you could set up the .fpr file type in your system so
    that double-clicking .fpr files \"opens\" them with Python and MakeOTF.py. Maybe
    this is the most elegant solution.\r\n\r\nHowever, I have no idea if any of this
    is possible on a Mac.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-08 23:58:30'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "I experienced a strange problem:\r\n\r\nThe OT features in the fonts generated
    with the new FDK do not work in InDesign and they do not show up in the menu.
    Kerning does not work either.\r\nHowever, when I open the font in FL the features
    are there and working. Even in Word the kerning works.\r\n\r\nAny ideas?\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nTim\r\n\r\n[edit]
    Read's suggestion to insert the languagesystem tags fixed the problem."
  created: '2006-10-09 11:28:21'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>did you figure out what to do when modules are missing ?</em>\r\n\r\nsorry,
    no. i guess i need to bone up on python to figger it all out."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Read Roberts
    body: "Hi Paul,\r\n\r\n I have a new Windows build that I'd like to e-mail to
      you to see if it solves your installation problems on Windows. If you are interested,
      please e-mail me at rroberts(at)adobe.com.\r\n"
    created: '2006-11-01 00:41:56'
  created: '2006-10-09 14:28:57'
- author:
    name: Emiliano Amadei
    picture: 111792
  body: "Paul, did u install Mark Hammond's win32all and python 2.3.5 or phyton 2.4?
    I was having the same problem but I was told that the auto-hinter only work in
    phyton 2.3.5, now it works fine.\r\n\r\nEmiliano Amadei"
  created: '2006-10-14 16:01:57'
- author:
    name: Emiliano Amadei
    picture: 111792
  body: "Im gonna try to write a dummy's guide to install 'with success' AFDKO 2.0
    in Fontlab Studio5.0.2.\r\n\r\nFirst, as mentioned before, your Fontlab Folder
    must not have any spaces or number in them. I had to uninstall my copy and install
    it in the folder \"C:\\FLStudio\\\". Just that, not two folders as default Fontlab
    installation does. Then I unzipped the \"FDK2.0-WIN.zip\" in \"C:\\\" creating
    the path \"C:\\FDK\".\r\nNow install the phyton program, version 2.3.5 \"Python-2.3.5.exe\"
    and the win32all \"pywin32-210.win32-py2.3.exe\". If anyone is unable to locate
    any of this files, drop me a PM. \r\nWith that done, run the command prompt. Get
    to the drive root where you installed fontlab.(In my case \"C:\\\") Then type
    \"cd fdk/tools/fontlab\". Now type \"installfontlabmacros.py /../../../flstudio/macros\"
    (Change \"flstudio\" for the name of your FontLab Folder). You're gonna see it
    copying the files to the Fontlab Macro folder. This python script also creates
    a file named \"FDK.pth\" in the python folder. As default is in \"C:\\Phyton23\\Lib\\site-packages\\\".
    This file, if open in the Notepad has the line \"C:\\FDK\\Tools\\SharedData\\FDKScripts\".
    This is the folder where FDK scripts are located. If you want to change the location
    of your \"SharedData\" folder, just rewrite the location in the \"FDK.pth\" file.\r\nIf
    done as above, your FontLab macros are ready to use. The only one that still generates
    error is \"Auto-Hint\". It gives the following:\r\n'Failed to import either version
    of auto-hinting library\r\nCurrent list of search paths for modules:\r\n['C:\\\\',\r\n
    'C:\\\\WINDOWS\\\\system32\\\\python23.zip',\r\n 'C:\\\\PHYTON~1.5\\\\Lib',\r\n
    'C:\\\\PHYTON~1.5\\\\DLLs',\r\n 'C:\\\\PHYTON~1.5\\\\Lib\\\\lib-tk',\r\n 'C:\\\\',\r\n
    'C:\\\\FLStudio',\r\n.....................\r\nTraceback (most recent call last):\r\n
    \ File \"<string>\", line 105, in ?\r\nImportError: No module named PyACDebug'.\r\nAny
    suggestions?\r\n\r\nEmiliano Amadei"
  created: '2006-10-16 15:20:24'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Before this thread is going to sleep I will point to some uncommented bugs.\r\n\r\n1.
    The anonymous data block bug I have posted before.\r\nNo anon data block will
    be added. No error message, nothing.\r\n\r\n2. The -adds bug.\r\nThe switch \"-adds\"
    will not work! Everytime I use it makeotf will read/convert it to \"-nadds\" with
    the resulting error output \"makeotfexe.exe [FATAL] unrecognized option (-nadds)\"\r\n\r\n3.
    Not a bug, but a great loss. The new makeotf shows no info about not defined glyphs
    (AliasDB) or unhinted glyphs.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nThomas, Read, Miguel please comment
    or verify it.\r\n\r\nSystem: WinXP SP2\r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\"
    target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Read Roberts
    body: "About Andreas' post.\r\n\r\n1) 'adds bug. Yes, I can duplicate this bug.
      You can work around it for the moment by supplying a target weight value after
      the 'adds' option, e.i. '-adds 500\". The next build wil fix this bug, so you
      will not have to specify a value. Without a value, MakeOTF makes a guess as
      to the target weight.\r\n\r\n2)  Anon block. \r\nThis is indeed not supported
      in MakeOTF, and never has been. It is meant for someone who is developing their
      own version of MakeOTF, and who wants to support feature file syntax not supported
      by the undelrlying MakeOTF library. What it does is to just pass the \"anon\"
      block text from the feature file from the library to the top-level program.
      MakeOTF does receive this data, but does nothing with it.\r\n\r\n3) Missing
      complaints about unhinted glyphs.\r\nThe missing hints reports came from the
      'tx' tool, which MakeOTF uses to convert fonts from *otf  to *pfa (Type 1) for
      input into the makeOTF library. I supressed its output, as several users didn't
      like seeing its output in this context. However, you can still see the same
      unhinted glyphs report by running compareFamily, whcih will complain about unhinted
      glyphs, or more quickly, by using the command-line  'tx -cff inputFontPath temp.cff'.
      \ This will incidentally make a CFF version of the input font file, but will
      also report all the unhinted glyph. On the Mac you can avoid the temp file by
      saying \"tx fontPath > /dev/null\". Piping output to /dev/null is the  standard
      Unix way of saying 'throw out all the output\", but I don;'t know how to do
      this in Windows.\r\n\r\n4) Missing complaints about not defined glyphs.\r\nI
      don't understand this. MakeOTF will still fail if your feature file references
      glyph names not in the font.  Do you want reports when 1) glyph aliasing is
      turned on and 2) the source  font contains glyphs not named in the glyph alias
      file as source or final names?  I could add this, although probaby not for the
      next build. I would assume that glyphs whose base name ( the part before the
      suffix, if any) look like \"uniXXX\" or \"uXXXX\" should not be reported,.\r\n\r\n-
      Read"
    children:
    - author:
        name: andreas
        picture: 110541
      body: "Thank you Read for your clear words.\r\n\r\nto 1. \r\nI have no luke
        in adding a value \"-adds 500\".\r\n\r\nThis is the order of my batch file
        (plus an extra fontinfo file setting the font to bold):\r\n<code>\r\nmakeotf
        \r\n-f C:\\1\\2\\3\\4\\Pro\\Regular\\font.pfa\r\n-o C:\\1\\2\\3\\4\\ready\\myfont.otf\r\n-ff
        C:\\1\\2\\3\\4\\Pro\\Regular\\_features.txt\r\n-mf C:\\1\\2\\3\\4\\_FontMenuNameDB.txt
        \r\n-gf C:\\1\\2\\3\\4\\GOA_GTF.txt -S -ga -adds 500\r\n</code>\r\n\r\n(all
        in one line)\r\n\r\nto 4.2 \r\n\t\r\nYes, I thought on the second option.
        Sometimes some temp glyphs are left in the font or some special xxx.alt versions
        will be added but are not in the GOA file (GlyphOrderAndAliasDB). In this
        situation I will update the GOA to control the glyph placement.\r\n\r\nIn
        general this \"extra\" info helped me a lot and I miss it. Maybe it could
        be activated by a switch in future versions.\r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\"
        target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
      created: '2006-10-18 23:44:09'
    created: '2006-10-18 17:52:30'
  created: '2006-10-18 12:33:07'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Read Roberts writes: \r\n> Piping output to /dev/null is the standard Unix
    way of \r\n> saying \u2018throw out all the output\u201D, but I don\u2019t know
    \r\n> how to do this in Windows.\r\n\r\nThe Windows equivalent is\r\ntx fontPath
    >NUL\r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-10-24 08:40:37'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Windows users should install the win32all package:\r\nhttp://www.python.net/crew/mhammond/win32/Downloads.html</em>\r\n\r\nAdam,
    this link is broken, is this the right link?\r\nhttp://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=78018"
  created: '2006-11-01 15:04:49'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>The FDK for Windows is missing the module plist.py. This is part of the
    standard Mac Python installation. It is used by the AutoHint script. See fi you
    can get someone with a Mac to send it to you</em>\r\n\r\nIs this the same as plistlib.py?
    Where am I supposed to place this file once i have it?"
  created: '2006-11-01 15:30:29'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Thanks to a new build for Windows, and some tech support from Read Roberts,
    I got this up and running. Thanks Read!
  created: '2006-11-10 17:53:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Is there a new build for Mac as well?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-11 17:10:29'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: No, not yet. But there will be one soon.
  created: '2006-11-12 08:22:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Miguel!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-12 15:33:25'
- author:
    name: titus n.
    picture: 109952
  body: "is the latest windows build the one which is downloadable from the adobe
    website?\r\nthanks,\r\ntitus "
  created: '2006-11-13 14:09:30'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "The OpenType Layout feature definition statements such as 'languagesystem
    DFLT dflt;' or 'script DFLT;' errorneously produce a script tag '    ' instead
    of the intended 'DFLT' inside of the font file -- if the font is produced using
    Adobe FDK for OpenType (AFDKO) version 1.6, FontLab 4.x, or FontLab Studio 5,
    including the recent version 5.0.2. \r\n\r\nThis situation is resolved in AFDKO
    2.0. I have written a small free Python script that will fix the errorneous entries
    in your existing fonts, without the need to rebuild the font in AFDKO 2. This
    way, you can continue building your fonts in FLS5 until a version of FontLab Studio
    is released that incorporates AFDKO 2. \r\n\r\nThe information about the little
    tool can be found in this thread: http://typophile.com/node/29469 \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2006-11-15 21:07:20'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "is there a new build for Mac? \r\n\r\n> a version of FontLab Studio is released
    that incorporates AFDKO 2.\r\n\r\nsoon?"
  created: '2007-01-03 07:32:04'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "David, \r\n\r\nIncorporating AFDKO 2 into FontLab Studio is a substantial
    task so it will make it into the next major release, not a minor bugfix release.
    We currently don't have anything to announce on this. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-01-04 15:33:10'
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nWhen using the auto hint macro is it normal to get along list
    of corrections in the output window.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_4488.jpg]\r\n\r\nAre
    these corrections the macro has made, or are these corrections I need to make.
    I ask cos I run the macro again on the same font I still get the list of corrections
    so I'm sort of thinking the corrections haven't been made.\r\n\r\nc. \r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Read Roberts
    body: 'The autohint macro will not make corrections unless you tell it to explicitly.
      However, it only makes a limited set of corrections such as adding points at
      extremes. It never changes the path of a curve, and so won''t fix these issues.
      What it is telling you is that there are points on  a path which are so close
      to the boundaries of a stem-hint or alignment zone that it seems likely that
      the intent was that the point should be captured by the hint - but you need
      to move the point a few design-scaped units to make this happen. This is not
      necessarily a problem that needs fixing. It is bad if these points are on a
      feature that really needs to be aligned with other glyphs, like the top or bottom
      of a lower case or upper case letter. However, these points may also be on curves
      that do not need to be controlled. Bottom line: look at a waterfall of these
      glyphs, and see if you have hinting problems. If so, you need to do something,
      else not.'
    created: '2007-04-03 16:52:07'
  created: '2007-02-16 08:36:41'
- author:
    name: titus n.
    picture: 109952
  body: i checked whether the windows build mentioned by paul on 10 November, 2006
    - 7:53pm actually made it to the download page. unfortunately it didn't, so i
    wondered if it's ever going to make it or if i there is another way to get it.
  created: '2007-04-19 21:40:15'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "<cite>i wondered if it\u2019s ever going to make it or if i there is another
    way to get it</cite>\r\n\r\nGood question. It's been overdue for a long time already.
    Maybe it's time to roll out the Phinn-Signal? Who's got their hand on the switch
    this week? Dezcom, maybe?\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nErnie"
  created: '2007-04-21 23:14:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Solfeggio must a musician or at least have the doe to Ray mi sol :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-22 01:12:26'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "Mechanical-monkey musician maybe. (Howzat for alliterative overkill?!)\r\n\r\nBut
    more to the point, the newest file in the current version of AFDKO 2 for Windows
    is time stamped September 1, 2006. The promised update has yet to be seen. Perhaps
    someone from Adobe will address this? Soon,  one hopes.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nErnie\r\n\r\n<br>\r\nUtterly
    Off-Topic: Chris, thought you (at least) might remember the Nairobi Trio and Robert
    \"Red Hot Harp\" Maxwell's composition as sung by the Ray Charles Singers. Here's
    your dose of nostalgia:\r\n\r\n<em>mi sol la, re fa mi sol, do mi do fa re sol
    sol\r\nmi sol la, re fa mi sol, do mi do fa re sol sol do\r\ndo mi fa, si re si
    mi, la do la fa re sol sol\r\ndo mi do fa, si re si mi, la do la fa re sol sol
    do\r\n</em>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-22 02:16:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "A Ray from the Rayettes :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-22 02:39:55'
- author:
    name: solfeggio
    picture: 112465
  body: "Sorry, Chris, not the pianist and soul singer, but the \"Ray Charles\" (born
    as Charles Raymond Offenberg) who was composer and conductor of The Ray Charles
    Singers. Nice try all the same.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nErnie"
  created: '2007-04-22 03:20:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I know who you mean. They were the oh-so clean cut chorus who sang very \"nice\"
    music. I was pushing Ray for re and sol to be Soul for my little joke and the
    Ray Charles Singers you mentioned didn't have much of that :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-22 03:31:54'
- author:
    name: Read Roberts
  body: "Re: [OpenType migration] OpenType Feature Files\r\n\r\nHi George;\r\n\r\nAbout
    your May 10th posting on opentype-migration-list@indx.co.uk:\r\n\r\nThe syntax
    you suggest could be implemented, but I don't immediately  see the advantage.
    \ I do see that you can represent in one statement what would otherwise require
    many statements, but to do so you need to refer to a lookup that has to be defined
    elsewhere, and this lookup will require just as many statements.\r\n\r\nFor your
    questions from your posting on Monday May 7th:\r\n\r\n- there is no std extension,
    but lots of people use '.fea\"\r\n\r\n- the next FDK update, due out soon, has
    only bug fixes and minor extensions. The next major release, which will add GDEF
    table and anchor support but probably not device tables, is due out summer 2008.\r\n\r\n-
    In a single contextual chain positioning statement, you can specify only one value
    per input position, just as you can only specify a single value for a class pair.
    To apply different values for different glyphs at the same position, you must
    use different statements.\r\n\r\n - Contextual ligature statements are in fact
    more limited than Tom Phinney's reply shows. In the case of the contextual ligature
    rule, the substitution cannot be a class. Contextual positioning statements provide
    context for a particular lookup type. To figure out what you can do, strip off
    the context, and then consider whether it would work as a non-contextual positioning
    statement. The underlying  GSUB and GPOS table structure does allow much more
    flexibility than this, but we chose to limit flexibility in favor of simplicity
    of expression.\r\n\r\n \r\n- Read\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-10 18:25:37'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "AFDKO Build 26 is now available.\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/devnet/opentype/afdko/"
  created: '2007-06-11 17:27:28'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Miguel, you didn't mention that it includes your script for generating the
    kern feature!\r\n\r\n(I recommend reading the documentation inside the module
    'WriteFeaturesKern.py' which is located in 'Macros / System / Modules' after installation.
    It expects that names of leftside-only and rightside-only kern classes either
    include a tag '_LEFT' and '_RIGHT'. Alternatively, these default tags can be changed
    in the first few lines of the module. Additional tags -- '_LAT', '_GRK', '_CYR'
    -- help the script to set subtable breaks correctly. It even allows for class-based
    exception kerning.)"
  created: '2007-06-12 20:40:57'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: very nice, Miguel! Thanks for including this.
  created: '2007-06-16 05:36:34'
- author:
    name: titus n.
    picture: 109952
  body: great, thanks adobe, thanks miguel and read!
  created: '2007-06-28 12:44:07'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Is it possible to use the AFDKO scripts through FontForge (through X11 on
    Mac OSX 10.4.9), rather than just FontLab? \r\n\r\nIf so, how, or which chapters
    of the manuals do I need to look at?\r\n\r\nOr am I totally misunderstanding how
    this whole thing works?"
  created: '2007-07-04 18:16:15'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>Or am I totally misunderstanding how this whole thing works?</cite>\r\n\r\nNot
    totally, only partly. You can use most of the FDK without FontLab.\r\n\r\nThe
    \"main\" FDK, the tools that build and analyse OTFs are command line tools that
    are independent of FL. However, there are some additional tools that run as macros
    in FL. I doubt you will get them to work in any other application."
  created: '2007-07-04 23:20:06'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: Relative to this build, I'm not sure how new they are, but Check Outlines
    and AutoHint are lovely.
  created: '2007-07-05 08:58:43'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: '[edit]'
  created: '2007-07-20 18:03:39'
- author:
    name: RachelR
  body: "I'm getting some outputs I never seen before when running the outline check\r\n\r\nglyph
    U.\r\n\t\t looking for coincidentpaths ...\r\n\t\t removing any intersections...\r\n\t\t
    inspecting/repairing paths...\r\n\t\t checking path directions...\r\n\tglyph V.\r\n\t\t
    looking for coincidentpaths ...\r\n\t\t removing any intersections...\r\n\t\t
    inspecting/repairing paths...\r\n\t\t checking path directions...\r\n\tglyph W.\r\n\t\t
    looking for coincidentpaths ...\r\n\t\t removing any intersections...\r\n\t\t
    inspecting/repairing paths...\r\n\t\t checking path directions...\r\n\r\nI'm getting
    the same results on most glyphs. Can anyone explain this and is it something I
    should be worried about\r\n\r\nRr"
  created: '2007-07-24 10:21:16'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<strong>Some remarks on the Autohint function of Adobe's FDK 2.0</strong>\r\n\r\nHere
    are a few tech notes, which may (or may not) be useful for typophiles:\r\n\r\n1)
    The first version, i.e. FDK v2.0 Aug 31 2006 <strong>build 21</strong> (FDK2.0-WIN.zip,
    file size ca. 14.4 MB), was faulty. It did not work on my Windowx XP machine.\r\n\r\n2)
    Yesterday, I installed the current version, i.e. FDK v2.0 May 5 2007 <strong>build
    26</strong> (FDK2.0-WIN.zip, file size only 9.8 MB).\r\n\r\n3) The current versions
    runs in the DOS box of Windows XP (but not in the DOS box of Windows 98, which
    I also tested).\r\n\r\n4) After unpacking the zip file FDK2.0-WIN.zip into the
    folder <strong>c:\\fdk</strong>, I switch to the DOS box (i.e. cmd.exe) and select
    the FDK folder via <strong>cd c:\\fdk</strong> and then set the FDK program folder
    via <strong>path=c:\\fdk\\tools\\win</strong>.\r\n\r\n5) After copying the font
    to be autohinted into the FDK folder under the name <strong>c:\\fdk\\font.pfa</strong>,
    I start autohint by <strong>autohint -a font.pfa</strong>, which results in the
    hinted font saved under the same name font.pfa.\r\n\r\nNow a few remarks on the
    Autohint function:\r\n\r\nAdobe's FDK autohint function is of very high quality,
    but it seems to be geared to Latin fonts only, for the autohinting quality heavily
    depends on the x-height, ascender etc. alignment zones (which do not exist in
    most non-Latin fonts, e.g. in Indic fonts, so that it is unclear, how such non-Latin
    fonts could be hinted with FDK).\r\n\r\nI compared the autohint function of Fontlab
    4.6 with the autohint function of Adobe's FDK. It is astonishing that exactly
    the same font with exactly the same alignment zones and exactly the same vertical
    and horizontal stem widths has entirely different autohinting results in Fontlab,
    as compared with Adobe's FDK. Especially, Fontlab 4.6 does not seem to handle
    vertical stem widths properly:\r\n\r\na) The screenshot http://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/fdk.jpg
    shows that Fontlab makes some vertical stems too thick, wheareas Adobe's FDK autohint
    function streamlines all vertical stems. This screenshot was made without font
    smoothing.\r\n\r\nb) The PDF http://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/fdk.pdf can
    be used for testing font smoothing, which, if switched on e.g. in Adobe Acrobat
    Reader, alleviates the Type 1 autohint deficiencies of Fontlab 4.6, which may
    (or may not) have been remedied by a later release of Fontlab.\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-27 14:29:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Uli, what do the actual hints for the h and n look like in FontLab? Can you
    provide a screenshot of the glyph windows? This is a strange effect, and not what
    I would expect from the FL autohinter, unless it is trying to hint the serif widths
    as well as the stem widths and miscalculating the hint replacement point.
  created: '2007-09-28 06:31:31'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Hudson:\r\n\r\nI already deleted the test font faultily hinted by Fontlab
    4.6.\r\n\r\nBut you can most easily repeat my experiment as follows:\r\n\r\n1)
    Open Adobe's <strong>OpenType</strong> font SerifaStd-Roman.otf with Fontlab 4.6.\r\n\r\n2)
    Remove all hints (e.g. by key shortcut shift F7) via Fontlab 4.6\r\n\r\n3) Autohint
    all glyphs (e.g. by key shortcut F7) via Fontlab 4.6\r\n\r\n4) Generate <strong>PostScript
    Type 1</strong> font SerifaStd-Roman.pfb with Fontlab 4.6\r\n\r\n5) Also generate
    the PFA version SerifaStd-Roman.pfa with Fontlab 4.6\r\n\r\nThis PS Type 1 font
    SerifaStd-Roman.pfb will contain the faulty vertical stem hints faultily hinted
    by Fontlab 4.6. I do not know, whether later versions of Fontlab have the same
    problem. Using Adobe's FDK autohint function on the PFA version SerifaStd-Roman.pfa
    will remedy the faulty stem hints.\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-28 08:14:51'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: As far as I can remember, these instructions are not sufficient in order to
    exactly reproduce what you did. In addition, FL considers your settings for minimum
    and maximum stem widths. You would need to provide your settings for this, as
    well.
  created: '2007-09-28 10:22:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "FontLab 5 hinting is an improvement over 4.6 as well.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-28 14:12:01'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Can anybody here recomend a viable how-to intro for building up OpenType
    features?\r\nPerhaps I\u2019m the idiot on this thread, but I\u2019d like to manage
    it, as a type designer who is not a technician \u2026\r\nThanks for any advice."
  created: '2007-10-31 20:36:55'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Andreas, the OT Feature File Specification is available here http://www.adobe.com/devnet/opentype/afdko/topic_feature_file_syntax.html\r\n\r\nAnd
    on this page http://www.adobe.com/devnet/opentype/afdko/ you'll find a link to
    ExampleRomanFonts.zip which you may use as a guide."
  created: '2007-11-01 00:16:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Where do I put the "example font sources" folder on my PC so that I can see
    the Minion example in Font Lab?
  created: '2007-11-01 02:00:26'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "It's not really meant to be studied in FontLab, but rather to indicate which
    folders and files AFDKO needs, their hierarchy, and how feature files interact
    in this hierarchy (e.g. the separate 'kern' feature). The feature files themselves
    have wonderful examples for writing features -- AFDKO feature file syntax in action.
    So these are best studied in a plain text editor.\r\n(I'm a bit oldfashioned and
    have made printouts of the sample feature files to read them unplugged.)"
  created: '2007-11-01 13:47:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks, Karsten, I''ll read them with a text editor and print them out. '
  created: '2007-11-01 14:32:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019m a little behind the curve, but thought this might be useful to others.
    I was having horrible problems with my outlines getting mutilated by my laser
    printer. It turns out that the Fontlab\u2019s autohinter was doing some really
    nasty stuff and the bad hinting was screwing up my laser printer output. Switching
    to the Adobe autohinter solved my problems.\r\n\r\nOf course, not using a crappy
    printer would have prevented this from ever being a problem, but that\u2019s another
    story\u2026"
  created: '2008-07-09 21:05:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "James,\r\nYour potential clients may also have \"crappy printers\" so it
    may be well that you went through the process.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-09 23:47:57'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: I'll take this opportunity to point out that the Autohint macro will not apply
    Flex hints, whereas the Autohint you can run from the command line does.
  created: '2008-07-10 01:19:40'
- author:
    name: Read Roberts
  body: "I am implementing support for the mark attachment lookups in the \"Adobe
    FDK for OpenType\", specifically the makeotf program. An area of difficulty is
    representing the mark-attachment rules within a contextual string, as one or more
    mark glyphs may appear between the base glyph and the attaching mark class. In
    order to make it easier to read and write such rules, I propose the following
    syntax. This differs from the previously published feature file syntax in requiring
    a lookup-type keyword in each statement. This makes it easier to distinguish glyphs
    which are part of the mark attachment rule from glyphs that are only part of a
    context.\r\n\r\n1) Mark class definitions.\r\n<code>\r\n    mark &lt;glyph class
    list&gt; &lt;anchor x1 y1&gt; @&lt;mark class name;\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nExample:\r\n<code>\r\n
    \   mark [acute grave] &lt;anchor 300, 0&gt; @TOP_MARKS;\r\n    mark [dieresis
    umlaut] &lt;anchor 40, 0&gt; @TOP_MARKS;\r\n    mark [cedilla hook] &lt;anchor
    200, -50&gt; @BOTTOM_MARKS;\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nNote that each mark class definition
    statement can specify only one anchor point. However, you can additional glyphs
    with different anchor points to a mark class definition by adding additional statements
    for that class.\r\n\r\n2)  cursive attachment (GPOS Lookup Type 3)\r\n\r\n<code>\r\n
    \   position cursive &lt;base glyph or class&gt; &lt;anchor x1 y1&gt; &lt;anchor
    x1 y1&gt;;\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nExample:\r\n<code>\r\n    position cursive [m.final
    n.final]  &lt;anchor 0 -50&gt; &lt;anchor NULL&gt;;\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nThis defines
    a glyph class containing the two glyphs, n.final and m.final, designed for use
    at the end of words. The second anchor is NULL, as there is no exit attachment
    point.\r\n\r\n3) Base to mark attachment (GPOS Lookup Type 4)\r\n\r\n<code>\r\n
    \   position base &lt;base glyph or class&gt; &lt;anchor x1 y1&gt; mark &lt;mark
    class name&gt;;\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nExample:\r\n<code>\r\n    position base [a e
    o u]  &lt;anchor 300 500&gt; mark @TOP_MARKS;\r\n    position base [a e o u]  &lt;anchor
    300 -50&gt; mark @BOTTOM_MARKS;\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nNote that each statement specifies
    only one attachment point on the base glyph or glyph class; you must provide as
    many statements for the base glyph or glyph class as there are real attachment
    points.\r\n\r\n4) ligature to mark attachment (GPOS Lookup Type 5)\r\n\r\n<code>\r\n
    \   position ligature &lt;base glyph or class&gt;\r\n        &lt;anchor x1 y1&gt;
    &lt;anchor x2 y2&gt;... &lt;anchor xn yn&gt;\r\n        mark &lt;mark class name
    #1&gt;\r\n        &lt;mark class name #2&gt;...&lt;mark class name #n&gt;;\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nExample:\r\n
    <code>\r\n   position ligature [oe ue]  &lt;anchor 350 400&gt; &lt;anchor 650
    400&gt;\r\n        mark @TOP_MARKS @TOP_MARKS;\r\n    position ligature [oe ue]
    \ &lt;anchor 350 -50&gt; &lt;anchor NULL&gt;\r\n        mark @BOTTOM_MARKS;\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nThere
    must be as many anchors specified as there are ligature components. There must
    be as many attaching mark classes provided as there are non-NULL anchors. Each
    statement specifies only one attachment position on each ligature component; you
    must provided as many statements as the maximum of the number of attachment points
    on any ligature component.\r\n\r\n5) Base to mark attachment (GPOS Lookup Type
    6)\r\n\r\n<code>\r\n    position mark &lt;base glyph or class&gt; &lt;anchor x1
    y1&gt; mark &lt;mark class name&gt;;\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nWorks just like the base-mark
    statement.\r\n\r\n6) Contextual forms.\r\n\r\nFor all these statements, the contextual
    form  allows glyph context strings before the lookup-type keyword, before the
    'mark' keyword, and after the mark class(es).\r\n<code>\r\n   position A1 A2 ..An
    \r\n        &lt;lookup-type&gt; &lt;base glyph or class&gt; &lt;anchor x1 y1&gt;+
    B1 B2...Bn\r\n        mark &lt;mark class&gt;+  C1 C2...Cn;\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nThe
    glyph or glyph class immediately following the lookup-type keyword is taken as
    the base glyph, and this must be immediately followed by the anchor clause(s).\r\n\r\nThe
    glyph class(es) immediately following the 'mark' keyword is assumed to be the
    attaching mark class, and must be of a mark class type.\r\n\r\nIf no glyph or
    glyph class items are marked as part of the contextual input string, then the
    attaching mark class will be used as the single item in the input string.\r\n\r\nAny
    glyphs marked as part of the input string must be consecutive, and must include
    the attaching mark class.\r\n\r\nExample:\r\n<code>\r\n    position T base [a
    e o u]  &lt;anchor 300 500&gt;\r\n        mark @TOP_MARKS' @BOTTOM_MARKS;\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nThis
    contextual statement will match the single-glyph sequence of \"@TOP_MARKS\" when
    preceded by the backtrack string \"T [a e o u]\" and followed by the lookahead
    string \"@BOTTOM_MARKS\". It will advance the current context by just one glyph;
    subsequent rules will be trying to match at @BOTTOM_MARKS.\r\n\r\n<code>\r\n    position
    T base [a e o u]'  &lt;anchor 300 500&gt;\r\n        mark @TOP_MARKS' @BOTTOM_MARKS';\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nThis
    contextual statement  matches in the same context as above. The difference is
    that a sequence of three glyph or glyph classes (\"[a e o u] @BOTTOM_MARKS @BOTTOM_MARKS\")
    are marked with a suffix of single-quote to indicate that they are the input sequence.
    This statement will advance the current context by three glyphs; subsequent rules
    will be trying to match whatever follows @BOTTOM_MARKS.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-17 19:34:04'
- author:
    name: wallacemalb
  body: 'Hi there, I dont know if I am writing in a proper board but I have got a
    problem with activation, link i receive in email is not working... <a href="http://typophile.com/?086ed9d92dbc6242a21d4a9e8b0">http://typophile.com/?086ed9d92dbc6242a21d4a9e8b0</a>, '
  created: '2010-08-10 22:28:17'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: Why are you posting this in a 2 year old thread?
  created: '2010-08-10 22:37:17'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: And, if you can post, your account <em>is</em> active.
  created: '2010-08-25 12:11:32'
date: '2006-09-16 16:45:41'
node_type: forum
title: 'AFDKO 2.0 : Post your feedback here'

---
