---
author:
  name: Dan Gayle
  picture: 111595
body: "I've decided that as part of my typophilic education I need to make my own
  version of the Roman letters on Trajan's column. \r\n\r\nOnly one problem.\r\n\r\nAnyone
  have a copy of them? I've been hunting all over for a good photograph or rubbing
  or book specimen or anything. No luck. I bet I could find something, maybe, at the
  Library, but they don't like me because I keep books for too long ;(\r\n\r\nDoes
  anyone know of a good book with specimens to look for? Or does anyone have available
  a high res image or images?\r\n\r\nI appreciate it advance by the way. Anything
  you can do will help."
comments:
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Dan, if you don't have a copy of Edward Johnston's 'Writing, Lettering and
    Illuminating' you should have.\r\n\r\nOtherwise try hunting through the libraries
    (you can get 'em back on time, honest) and secondhand bookshops near you. Almost
    all of the lettering books for commercial artists and signwriters from the first
    half of the 20thC contained at least one version of the authors' take on the Trajan
    lettering. My own favourite would be p.29 of 'The Art of Lettering' by Geoffrey
    Mott, but this material is very commonplace and for less than $20, cheap."
  created: '2006-09-18 07:41:46'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "In Albert Kapr's \"Schriftkunst\" is a 3(!)-page fold-out of it.\r\n\r\nRalf\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fonts.info"
  created: '2006-09-18 08:05:50'
- author:
    name: privateortheris
    picture: 111258
  body: Here's a fragment of the inscription from a 1951 exhibition catalogue... [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Trajaninscription_3854.jpg]Edward
    Johnston's book would be well worth finding if you have any curiosity about the
    provenance of type. Usefully he mad a little montage of the alphabet... [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Trajanalphabet_5535.jpg]
  created: '2006-09-18 11:41:50'
- author:
    name: Kon
  body: "There is a nice book \"Letters redrawn from The Trajan inscription in Rome\"
    by Edward Catich. You can also search for Trajan letterformas at the Catich collection
    http://catich.sau.edu/\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-18 12:58:20'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I have a couple of images <strong>not of the Trajan inscription</strong>
    of poorer quality carving at 16mb if they are any interest to you.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/roman_4296.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/roman2_5320.jpg]\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-09-18 14:08:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Not much contrast in that.\r\nIn certain light, it would have been almost
    a monoline sans serif.\r\nLike Cleland's Della Robbia. He added a lower case.
    Cool.\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-19 00:07:07'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "[[Trajan Capitals]]\r\n\r\nebay it."
  created: '2006-09-19 03:57:07'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Don't you just lust after the \"M\" and (for me!) \"P\"?\r\n\r\nSuch gloriously
    elegant forms (like a 1961 E-type Jag or the current Aston-Martin DB9 Cabriolet):
    go for it, Dan!"
  created: '2006-09-19 04:17:52'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "I was at looking around in the Powell's rare books room a couple of months
    ago and noticed <a href=\"http://www.powells.com/cgi-bin/biblio?inkey=1-1141965577-0\">this</a>.\r\nIt
    consists of loose-leaf prints of Trajan rubbings. It didn't seem worth the money
    to me, but it might be available in some university libraries. It probably wouldn't
    be something you could checkout from a library though, since it isn't bound. The
    Goudy book is probably much, much more useful. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-19 04:28:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Catich is indeed the author you want on this.\r\n\r\nDaniel, if you make
    a Trajan, consider:\r\n1) Having a \"V\" in place of the \"U\" (or if that's too
    much for you, do give the \"U\" the two full stems).\r\n2) Putting that little
    triangle thing in the blank space.\r\n3) Not including severely out-of-character
    characters, like the \"@\". This would make the font less versatile, but that's
    the point: it would also make it hold its character better over time/usage. The
    fact that Adobe Trajan is too versatile causes it to be used by the likes of ISUZU,
    ruining its focus for everybody else.\r\n4) Calling it Imperium. Or IMPERIVM.
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nWe have enough transvestite Trajans - give us something useful in
    its difference/authenticity.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-19 05:08:20'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Transvestite Trajans? Considering his family tree, that might not be too
    far off base :)\r\n\r\nSo if there are a billion Trajan's available, how about
    something different like the forms <strong>timd</strong> suggested? Something
    useful, but not too useful?\r\n\r\nNot having a V or W or whatever gives me just
    that one less piece of lead to conquer the world with! Oi!"
  created: '2006-09-19 05:26:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, one decision you have to make from the get-go is whether you want to
    make it regular or \"folk\" - remembering that these days the latter can be more
    \"useful\" than the former!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-19 05:32:29'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I tend to like more elegant looking faces. Thinner weights, sharper serifs,
    etc. Those kinds of forms don't usually associate themselves with \"folk\" -types,
    but if anyone has an idea along those lines, I'd love to give it a try.\r\n\r\nI
    have a book titled <strong>Calligraphy, The Art of Written Forms</strong> by Donald
    M. Anderson that made many references to Catich and to Johnston. They were the
    next set of books that I was going to hunt for, but books on type are slim pickins
    in used bookstores in Seattle. I'll put them on my wishlist."
  created: '2006-09-19 06:13:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Good suggestions Hrant.\r\nI have occasionally thought about producing a
    more authentic roman inscriptional face, distressed, with the features you mention,
    and also some OpenType coding that converts numbers into roman numerals."
  created: '2006-09-19 15:38:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"OpenType coding that converts numbers into roman numerals.\"\r\n\r\nand
    the @ singn into et tu?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-19 15:58:29'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I see lots of distressed typefaces. Most, not so special. It seems that most
    people just auto trace or something. Something like Founder's Caslon seems more
    \"authentic\" than a lot of the others.\r\n\r\nWhat's the proper way to do a distressed
    font?  "
  created: '2006-09-19 17:54:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Unintentionally.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-19 18:07:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There would be two \"distress\" aspects to doing a font based on lapidary
    inscriptions.\r\nFirst would be the original uneven execution of the letter carvings
    -- they were painted on by brush first, with that process producing irregularity
    in form, as did the subsequent carving, which was interpretive (even if it was
    done by the same artist -- which we will never know).\r\nSecondly, the effect
    of centuries of weather (on outdoor inscriptions)."
  created: '2006-09-19 18:15:13'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "And with lots of options so repeat characters are rarer.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-09-19 18:19:49'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: "The other marvellous book by Father Catich, still available for a very reasonable
    price: <a href=\"http://www.johnnealbooks.com/online-store/scstore/c-Books_--_Brush_Lettering.html\">The
    Origin of the Serif</a>. Full-page facsimiles of each letter in the Trajan inscription.
    And a fascinating technical investigation.\r\n\r\nBTW Tim, maybe you should point
    out that the two inscriptions you showed above are about 15 centuries apart."
  created: '2006-09-21 21:37:35'
- author:
    name: Beta
    picture: 111410
  body: "The Origin of the Serif has excellent plates of the inscription. \r\n\r\nMany
    other books reproduce photos of the Victorian cast that resides in the British
    Museum. The BM cast has been modified in several ways from the Roman original.
    For example, a serif has been added to the inside of the right leg of the \"A\".\r\n\r\nI
    strongly reccomend working from the Catich plates in \"Origin\"."
  created: '2006-09-21 22:06:26'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: "Bonnie is right about the Victoria & Albert cast of Trajan, and the Johnston
    pictures posted above are actually after the cast.\r\n\r\nNow let's see, what
    have I got?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DSCN4184_5493.jpg]\r\n\r\n
    \ \r\nHow do you like these serifs? More Galliard than Galliard."
  created: '2006-09-22 00:04:46'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: "Nice 15th century German inscription with Byzantine elements. Not quite what
    you're looking for maybe, but has some interesting ideas, especially the N.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/15_4410.c
    1482 \xE9pit. Gmainer 1482 (RK).jpg]"
  created: '2006-09-22 00:09:41'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: "And this lovely 11th centuty lettering. I began digitising it myself but
    it would need more time. Sorry the picture isn't better, but notice the Baskerville
    C in effecerat :) And the high waist-line plus contrast between narrow and wide
    letters makes it sort of pre-pre-Art Nouveau (or -New Yorker?).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1009
    Mainz_3475.gif]"
  created: '2006-09-22 00:21:44'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Look at them ligs! How cool would it be to have a Roman font with extensive
    ligatures? As in, more ligatures than you could shake a stick at? \r\n\r\nSo here's
    the checklist for IMPERIVM, the Ultimate Roman:\r\n1) Having a \u201CV\u201D in
    place of the \u201CU\u201D.\r\n2) Putting that little triangle thing in the blank
    space.\r\n3) Not including severely out-of-character characters, like the \u201C@\u201D.
    \r\n4) OpenType coding that converts numbers into roman numerals.\r\n5) Lots of
    options so repeat characters are rarer.\r\n6) Ligatures, and keep them coming.\r\n7)
    Possibly different weights representing various states of erosion from freshly
    brushed, to finely chiseled, to well-worn, to acid-rain.\r\n\r\nAnything else?"
  created: '2006-09-22 01:26:51'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: I would so buy that. (if it was good) You'd need a full day course to learn
    how to do everything.
  created: '2006-09-22 02:04:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Anything else?</em>\r\n\r\nIt wd be gd to compile a std set of abbrev.s
    for Engl and code it in.\r\nIn Tim's sample, it lks like whenev. they forgot a
    letr they just went bk and put a line next door II where it shd have been.\r\n\r\nWe
    use Mr, etc. in the same way that IMP was used (Imperator) in Marc's example,
    but we don't put a \"macron\" over them. \r\n\r\nBut seriously...Roman inscriptions
    had lots of abbreviations, because Trajanus hisselfus had a heck of a title, for
    one reason, and it helped justification, for another. And made for less work for
    the carver (paid by the word?). If the same principle were applied and fontized,
    a model would perhaps be 18th or 19th century correspondence, where writers used
    a kind of shorthand to speed up writing -- or when the end of a line is getting
    near and it doesn't look like all your words will fit. Another model would be
    texting today, but perhaps too anachronistic for a Trajan?"
  created: '2006-09-22 02:37:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't know about #5. Ligation and wear are one thing, but free-spirited
    glyph selection is another. Fine for a handwriting font, but not a formal monumental
    style, I don't think.\r\n\r\n> \u201Cmacron\u201D\r\n\r\nYes, it would be great
    to have that, although the variability of its width (like the Arabic kasheeda)
    seems challenging to implement (which is probably why it didn't survive the transition
    from writing/lettering to typography).\r\n\r\n> I would so buy that.\r\n\r\nI
    should bring this thread to the attention of David Lemon.  :-)\r\nHe's been a
    vocal sceptic concerning the wisdom of having\r\na \"U\" that's a \"V\", not having
    an \"@\" sign, etc.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Dan Gayle
      picture: 111595
    body: "Not neccesarily \"free-spirited\" glyph selection, just a wide range of
      alternates. For instance, on the Trajan inscriptions the letter I has variable
      heights.\r\n\r\nSince there are going to be plenty of empty slots in this font,
      might as well fill them with thoughtfully designed alternates. "
    created: '2006-09-22 20:52:11'
  created: '2006-09-22 03:46:09'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: "The abreviations in Tim's first sample are a basic late mediaeval set (and
    in this case even post-mediaeval): nri for nostri, Lateranen for Lateranensibus,
    pp for pape, etc.\r\n\r\nIf you like ligs, you'll love the early 12th century.
    This is from Moissac in the south of France.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Moissac_3692.jpg]"
  created: '2006-09-22 08:56:17'
- author:
    name: Beta
    picture: 111410
  body: "Thanks for the correction, MH. It has been so long since I have been in London
    that I misplaced the Trajan cast. \r\nI love your inscription photos. I find it
    wonderful to see that those ancient craftsmen ran out of room at the end of the
    line, just like I do. Hope springs eternal\u2026"
  created: '2006-09-22 16:38:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Something else: the #2 is not unlikely to cause technical issues, sometimes
    and maybe even often. It's possible that a viable work-around would be to have
    a normal empty blank space, but always replace it with a \"that little triangle
    thing\" character using OT.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-22 17:00:20'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: "Oh, Bonnie, I hadn't even noticed I was correcting you. I must have read
    your post too quickly, and seen V&A where you wrote Victorian. \r\n\r\nI like
    your new hairdo   \xA7:)"
  created: '2006-09-22 22:49:39'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "If you're going to replace 'U' with 'V', you'll have to replace 'J' with
    'I' as well, but you probably already knew that.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2006-09-23 04:26:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Then there's the C and G... But I actually wouldn't link those decisions
    too strongly, because there are a number of factors at play, and historical authenticity
    isn't everything (even assuming it can be adequately defined here). One factor
    is that of chronology, and exactly when the U, J and G were introduced, and by
    whom; another is that of potential ambiguities in actual names and words, and
    where you want to draw the line; a third is what people <cite>think</cite> is
    authentically Roman (and this is where I think the V/U stands out much more than
    the other two pairs). You can make the decision to limit the versatility of a
    font (not out of hooliganism, but out of a hope of helping it maintain its focus)
    but you can still worry about how it might be used (which is still the point of
    a font, in the end). For example, BVLGARI works, but IVICY wouldn't.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-23 05:04:23'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "An important source: L.C.Evetts. <em>Roman Lettering: A Study of the Letters
    of the Inscription at the Base of the Trojan Column, With an Outline of the History
    of Lettering in Britain</em>. London: Pitman, 1938.\r\n<dl><dd><dd>[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Evetts
    Jacket 2_5716.jpg]</dd></dl>\r\n\r\nAnother important source: Walter Kaech. <em>Rhythm
    and proportion in lettering</em> [<em>Rhythmus und Proportion in der Schrift</em>],
    Olten und Freiburg im Breisgau: Walter-Verlag, 1956. <dl><dt>[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kaech_Golden
    Section_4446.jpg]</dt></dl>"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Dan Gayle
      picture: 111595
    body: Wow. Is that an analysis showing the use of the Golden section? Those Romans
      were sick.
    created: '2006-09-23 05:54:50'
  created: '2006-09-23 05:35:32'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "This is similar, for example, to what I've noticed about Johnston's Underground
    face. P22 has an accurate version of it with no lower case bold, etc. Font Bureau's
    Agenda has 54 styles. Where do you draw the line?\r\n\r\nI would think that in
    this instance, with the desire of making the ULTIMATE ROMAN*, you'd want to keep
    everything optional. Of course, an intelligent and historically cognizant designer
    might realize that if you want to have all of your U's look like V's, G's look
    like C's, or J's look like I's, then all you have to do is type them that way.
    \ \r\n\r\nSo, with this in mind, I hearby proclaim point #1 from my list above
    null and void. \r\n\r\nBut still, no @ sign.\r\n\r\n\r\n*Patent Pending"
  created: '2006-09-23 05:51:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> all you have to do is type them that way.\r\n\r\nOf course there's a truth
    in that, but there's also a danger, the one that I mentioned: the more you facilitate
    some people's use of the font in a way contrary to its \"ideal\" character*, the
    more they'll ruin it for everybody, because the font's associations become diluted
    in the public eye. On the other hand, having neither a \"U\", \"J\" nor a \"C\"
    could be said to be too puritanical, too limiting. So maybe a good compromise
    would be to default in the \"archaic spelling\" using OT and allow the user to
    revert to the \"Modern\" characters, but only proactively.\r\n\r\n* I know this
    seems like a fascist attitude, and I'm all for being nicely surprised by unexpected
    usage, but I think this really is essentially a matter of long-term functionality.
    The key thing to me is that we already have highly (too?) versatile Trajan-style
    fonts, and Dan would be contributing more by being different.\r\n\r\n> But still,
    no @ sign.\r\n\r\nWhew.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-25 21:08:54'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: What's all this about C and G? OK, J and V achieved complete independence
    from I and and U only in the 19th century, but the Romans invented (or reinvented)
    G long before Trajan, as soon as they realised  Etruscan letters were not enough
    for their own needs (since the Etruscans had lost the original sound of Greek
    gamma, and turned it into C).
  created: '2006-09-26 00:03:44'
- author:
    name: jayantsilva
  body: Have you had a look at the font Senatus by Prof. Werner Schneider? Its based
    on the Trajan inscription. Here's a sample of it and some of his calligraphy.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/senatus_6671.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/scan0001_3691.jpg]
  created: '2006-09-26 15:44:38'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> Of course there\u2019s a truth in that, but there\u2019s also a danger,
    the one that I mentioned: the more you facilitate some people\u2019s use of the
    font in a way contrary to its \u201Cideal\u201D character*, the more they\u2019ll
    ruin it for everybody, because the font\u2019s associations become diluted in
    the public eye. [\u2026]</cite>\r\nHi Hrant. Are you still of this opinion?\r\nI
    agree on what you say (Paul Shaw thought also numerals were out of place in Trajan),
    but if everything \"modern\" is removed, we should not have accented characters
    as well, currency symbols et al.\r\nIt seems to me the crucial points among all
    the ones mentioned are:\r\n1) The [U], which could be kept as an alternative;\r\n2)
    The addition politypes, where it's appropriate (not excessive, like you said);\r\n\r\n<cite>
    * I know this seems like a fascist attitude. </cite>\r\nWhat do you mean by \"fascist\"?
    As an Italian, I'm so used to the word that I still can't get what's the dominant
    feelings associated with it. They are mostly negative, but this doesn't help."
  created: '2008-11-29 13:52:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Claudio, yes I still feel that way.\r\nLimiting the versatility of a font,
    or any element of design, increases its focus. The trick is finding the right
    balance; pretending that a font can be maximally versatile and not pay for it
    in some other way is misguided.\r\n\r\n> Paul Shaw thought also numerals were
    out of place in Trajan\r\n\r\nReally? Cool. Is this written down anywhere? (I
    mean besides here. :-)\r\n\r\n\"Fascism\": to me it means telling people how to
    live their lives.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-29 15:35:05'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Hi Hrant, thanks for the answers.\r\n<cite> Limiting the versatility of a
    font, or any element of design, increases its focus. he trick is finding the right
    balance; pretending that a font can be maximally versatile and not pay for it
    in some other way is misguided.</cite>\r\nI agree entirely on this, I think it
    can also be experienced and seen by anyone.\r\n\r\n<cite> > Paul Shaw thought
    also numerals were out of place in Trajan\r\nReally? Cool. Is this written down
    anywhere? (I mean besides here. :-) </cite>\r\nNo, it was a thing he told me when
    he visited me in Modena in 2002. I was accompanying him by car at the Train station,
    and we were still talking about why he did not like the excessively eterogeneous
    nature of my letter \"experiments\", and what constituted a typeface's integrity.\r\nBut
    I don't think he would bother re-affirming it, it was not a negative criticism,
    he considers Carol Twombly's work very well done. A pity it's so widespread and
    unconsciosly used, I add\u2026\r\n\r\nFascism: I would say \"forcing\" instead
    of \"telling\". Telling it may be, and it generally is, for the good. This is
    not a correct use of the word to me, anway. Fascism, despite all its negativity
    in the dictatorial aspect, had good things going on. Anyway, I would use \"dictatorial\",
    but this opens another linguistic problem\u2026 :P"
  created: '2008-11-29 15:54:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Certainly the meanings of words vary by geography.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-29 16:46:10'
- author:
    name: AtoZ
    picture: 116285
  body: "<em>&lt;note&gt;</em>Because I intend to use some irony in this posting,
    and contributors to this forum (including myself) sometimes have difficulty in
    distinguishing between ironic and serious comments, I\u2019ve labeled the various
    sections to identify my intentions.<em>&lt;/note&gt;</em>\r\n\r\n<em>&lt;irony&gt;</em>Since
    font users can\u2019t be trusted to use historically-based fonts appropriately,
    more needs to be done than just to eliminate historically-inaccurate glyphs (such
    as U, J, and @). Clearly, users should not be allowed to use historically-based
    fonts for anachronistic text. For example, when using Imperivm (or similar Trajan
    based fonts) copy such as TRIVMPHAL ARCH should be allowed, but the open-type
    font software should screen for and block text such as IVICY FRVIT GVM.<em>&lt;/irony&gt;</em>\r\n\r\n<em>&lt;deeper
    irony&gt;</em>On second thought, for true historical accuracy, the Imperivm font
    should only allow text in Latin. Any other language would clearly be anachronistic.<em>&lt;/deeper
    irony&gt;</em>\r\n\r\n<em>&lt;serious comment&gt;</em>The advocates of historically-accurate
    font use, need to keep in mind that the users of Imperivm (and similar fonts)
    are NOT in ancient Rome craving the glyphs in stone -- they are using them on
    paper and electronic devices worldwide in the 21st century, so there is already
    a built-in anachronism in the use of these fonts. Users should be permitted to
    use the fonts however they please (whether we like the results or not). All fonts
    ought to be available with the widest possible set of glyphs (including the dreaded
    @).<em>&lt;/serious comment&gt;</em>\r\n\r\n<em>&lt;postscript&gt;</em>Dan, what\u2019s
    the status of Imperivm? Any samples you could post? <em>&lt;/postscript&gt;</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>When
    going from </em>A to Z,\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>I
    often end up </em>At Oz."
  created: '2008-12-05 08:18:26'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> Users should be permitted to use the fonts however they please (whether
    we like the results or not). </cite>\r\nIf you allow me, that's my own decision
    as a designer. If I produce a work, I decide how it functions, and I reflect upon
    its use with my own choices as a designer and \"page planner\" in mind.\r\nWhether
    people will use it according to the functions of its \"organism\", it depends
    on how I (as its designer) decide to sell or make it available. It's clear that
    freedom is largely perceived in an absolute value, but we do not live on an absolute
    plane, since we have to deal with the sensibility of our fellow men.\r\nSo, you
    will agree that I may propose an intended usage out of assumed expectations, even
    if this exludes an \"@\" sign, if this is my cultural intention."
  created: '2008-12-05 14:17:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There have been occasions when it was not convenient to find a hammer and
    I have hammered a tack with a pair of pliers. Their have been cases where I had
    a pair of scissors handy but preferred to tare the paper by hand. Type is a tool
    to be used. It can be used badly or quite well, we do not or even should not exclude
    misuse by those who purchased the tool. Type is not a dangerous weapon like explosives
    which needs strict regulation. Cast your bread upon the waters but know some of
    it will sink to the bottom.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-12-05 16:10:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Clint, that stance is even more ideological than mine! And this really has
    nothing to do with any pedantic historical accuracy (I certainly can't be accused
    of that! :-) it has to do with perception, and its judicious leveraging.\r\n\r\nAdults
    help children do the right thing (because of their experience and knowledge),
    and everybody is childlike in some contexts. Users need our help (because of our
    experience and knowledge) whether they realize/admit it or not. This is why Adobe
    InDesign does not allow fake bold for example.\r\n\r\nOn top of that, there's
    actually self-interest involved too. Just because you can sell more copies of
    a font for the first year because it's more \"versatile\" doesn't make it smart
    to sacrifice its long-term viability, which can only come from its <em>focus</em>.
    Why do you think Trajan has become a parody of itself, and most intelligent graphic
    designers avoid it?\r\n\r\nChris: we are all responsible for the <em>results</em>.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-05 17:49:18'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Jayan has exquisite taste! Jayan, did you study with Werner when he was in
    India?\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2008-12-05 18:07:41'
- author:
    name: AtoZ
    picture: 116285
  body: "Claudio and Hrant,\r\n\r\nIt may be a type designer's preference that certain
    glyphs not be available. After all, in the case of the @ glyph, the user could
    simply spell out the word \u201Cat,\" but you know what happens in the real world
    -- if a glyph is not available, the user is likely to substitute one from another
    font instead. (If he or she wants an @, they will get one, one way or another.)\r\n\r\nIt
    seems better to me that type designers should control the design of <em>all</em>
    the glyphs that might be used in contemporary communication.\r\n\r\nGlyphs are
    not only a design issue; they are also a content issue. Users should be allowed
    to say whatever they want, using a complete set of glyphs to choose from. Omitting
    glyphs because the type designer doesn't feel they are historically appropriate,
    results in a form of censorship: \"You can\u2019t say that using my font.\" \r\n\r\nIt
    seems better to me that type designers should control the design of all characters
    that might be used in communication, and also recognize the fact that their fonts
    are being used in the 21st Century (and hopefully beyond). If you create a font
    in the 21st Century, it should be capable of being fully used in contemporary
    documents; otherwise the font just becomes obsolete historical font, or worse
    a font where users mix in other fonts to add the missing glyphs. \r\n\r\nIn summary,
    type designers should not sit in judgment as to which of their glyphs may or may
    not be used once the font is released to the world, nor should they try control
    whether or not their fonts are used appropriately. (They, are of course, entitled
    to their own opinions, and are welcome to speak their minds, but they should not
    try to enforce those opinions on others by withholding glyphs they feel are inappropriate.)\r\n&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>When
    going from </em>A to Z,\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>I
    often end up </em>At Oz.\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-05 20:56:59'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> It seems better to me that type designers should control the design
    of all the glyphs that might be used in contemporary communication. </cite>\r\n\r\nI
    try to put it in a simpler way: if it is a \"historical\" lapidary alphabet, you
    do not have email.\r\nIf some user wishes to use a lapidary alphabet to compose
    email, there is a bigger cultural problem that does not even allow to understand
    what \"censorship\" means.\r\n\r\n<cite> otherwise the font just becomes obsolete
    historical font, or worse a font where users mix in other fonts to add the missing
    glyphs. </cite>\r\nOf course, but that's ignorance. As I see it, it's this aspect
    that should be addressed\u2026"
  created: '2008-12-10 17:56:57'
- author:
    name: AtoZ
    picture: 116285
  body: "<em>&ldquo;...if it is a &lsquo;historical' lapidary alphabet, you do not
    have email.\"</em>\r\n\r\nWell, I suppose we will have to agree to disagree. \r\n\r\nAs
    I said in my original post on this subject, people \"are NOT in ancient Rome craving
    the glyphs in stone \u2014 they are using them on paper and electronic devices
    worldwide in the 21st century, so there is already a built-in anachronism in the
    use of these fonts.\" If people want to use Trajan (or similar fonts) for e-mails,
    that should be their prerogative, not the type-designer's prerogative. \r\n\r\nShould
    Caslon only be used for text about 18th Century England? Is it \"wrong\" to set
    an e-mail address in Calson? Should all historically-based fonts only be used
    for texts relating to time of their creation? I think not. \r\n\r\nGlyphs should
    not be \"censored\" in any typeface for the sake of \"historical accuracy.\"\r\n&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>When
    going from </em>A to Z,\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>I
    often end up </em>At Oz."
  created: '2008-12-12 23:18:56'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "As the Latin phrase goes, caveat emptor.\r\n\r\nAs a type designer, I can
    and should make the tool as I see fit. If I see fit to use Opentype features to
    replace an exclamation point with \"IO\", or \"QUO\" or whatever. That's the designer's
    prerogative. The same could be said for DANATDANGAYLEDOTCOM or whatever.\r\n\r\nI
    could program it to render dan@dangayle.com as DANATDANGAYLEDOTCOM, but the beauty
    is that the underlying text remains the same. It would still be encoded as dan@dangayle.com
    in the document, and still useable. \r\n\r\nCAVEAT EMPTOR\r\nIf you don't like
    it, don't buy it.\r\n\r\nNow, the philosophical debate aside, a few years ago
    I created a giant poster for my school's photo club using Trajan on a giant photo
    of some marble. I thought it looked great, but it came at the expense of readability
    and understandability. THE PHOTO FORVM didn't fly so well, because the people
    in the club didn't understand what it meant, and the anachronism was totally lost
    on them.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-13 00:07:12'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: As to the IMPERIVM font, I've been working on a Roman typeface [[http://typophile.com/node/41650|here]].
    Not quite up IMPERIVM standards, but still fun to design :)
  created: '2008-12-13 00:21:15'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "AtoZ: I think we are talking of different things, and I'm not sure I am able
    to explain.\r\nOn the historical accuracy, the solution offered by Dan is effective.\r\nI
    care about internal consistency, and conciliation of apparent rivalry, and if
    an alphabet design is based on a conceptual idea it could also propose censoring
    or altering, or the fostering of a constructive talk.\r\n\r\nProbably we did not
    understand each other because you were thinking of normal typefaces which should
    address the expected uses, while I was talking more of an artistic approach with
    different degrees of functionality, since type design is always on a fascinating
    balance between art and technique, vision and analisys. I enjoy a constant confrontation
    between the two approaches, and of course my lapidary logic if modern would include
    an [@], if ancient, not."
  created: '2008-12-13 11:17:14'
- author:
    name: AtoZ
    picture: 116285
  body: "piccic: I agree that we have probably been approaching the subject from different
    viewpoints. As you point out, a type designer must find a \"...balance between
    art and technique...\" In that sense, type design is similar to architecture and
    other crafts that mix art with utility, and there are no firm rules as to where
    and how that balance should be achieved.\r\n\r\nMy own feeling is that if type
    designer is creating a typeface for his own use (or has been commissioned to create
    a typeface for a private use), then, of course, the typeface need only contain
    the glyphs that are needed and desired for it's particular use. However, if the
    typeface is released for public use, then I believe that the typeface should contain
    all the glyphs that users might reasonably be expected to use.\r\n\r\nI am aware
    that some feel it would be unreasonable to include, for example, a @ glyph in
    a historically-based typeface even when released for public use, but to return
    to the comparison with architecture -- if one were to design a new public building
    in the style of a Greek temple, should the architect refuse to include rest rooms
    in the building, or air conditioning, since those items where not part of the
    original design vocabulary in ancient Greece?\r\n&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>When
    going from </em>A to Z,\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>I
    often end up </em>At Oz."
  created: '2008-12-14 22:33:32'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Anyone have a copy of them?\"\r\n\r\nIsn't there an entire rubbing at Rochester
    Institute of Technology or somewhere?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-12-16 20:23:44'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@dberlow\r\n\r\nOoo. Thanks for that hint! I'll start poking around. \r\n\r\nRegarding
    some of the previous conversations, now past the 2 year mark, what would you as
    the head of major foundry and well respected in the industry say about another
    version of Trajan? Particularly, if some magazine were to come to you and say
    that they wanted their own Trajan, how would you approach it?\r\n\r\nObviously
    in that case the silliness of the opentype substitutions would be gone, and all
    of the requisite glyphs would need to be created, right?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-17 15:32:38'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...if some magazine were to come to you and say that they wanted their
    own Trajan, how would you approach it?\"\r\n\r\nWell, first I'd make sure they
    were prepared for absolute authority, because that's what Trajan's about. Then
    'd go about the usual specificational due diligence to end up with a few letters
    that fit the Imperial Roman ambitions of the spec. (why no silliness of the opentype
    substitutions?). Then, I'd take a minute to check and see if I was still the head
    of major foundry and well respected in the industry and I'd send them a bill.
    If they liked everything so far, I'd finish the face. I could not say from this
    point of view, what the contrast would be nor the extension of the R's leg might
    be into the future. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-12-17 20:53:01'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> Well, first I\u2019d make sure they were prepared for absolute authority,
    because that\u2019s what Trajan\u2019s about. </cite>\r\nThat's what I was thinking
    about, and to reply AtoZ: yes, I am generally motivated on a personal level. I
    guess I'll never be a type designer full-time doing large families: I like to
    use type as much as to design it, and I think all that had motivated me most is
    when I don't find what I am looking for among existing typefaces (I recall Jon
    Barnbrook wrote something similar once).\r\n\r\nAbout the Trajan, what I wonder
    is if it's better to have more than one model, especially for Capitalis. After
    all, there are other notable inscriptions from the period, and examples, which
    may not be so refined as the Trajan column inscriptions, but nonethelss give material
    for a more comprehensive inclusion."
  created: '2008-12-17 21:19:57'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "RE: Opentype\r\nI meant only that the substitutional rhetoric would be done
    away with. The @ sign would be just that. Not \"AT\".\r\n\r\nRE: Absolute Authority\r\nThat's
    an interesting perspective that I hadn't thought about before. Why else would
    they have erected such columns, if not to boast about their military prowess.
    \r\n\r\nPerhaps that is why Trajan the typeface feels out of place on many movie
    posters, because it is used for the wrong reason, and without any thought to the
    attitude of the typeface.\r\n\r\nI'll have to look into that more."
  created: '2008-12-22 17:26:22'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> Why else would they have erected such columns, if not to boast about
    their military prowess. </cite>\r\nHmm\u2026 I did not think about it in terms
    of \"military prowess\".\r\nWhat's that suggests you such an association?\r\nThe
    adjective \"authority\" comes from the \"author\", which here is the designer
    (or stonecarver), the authoritative people which seriously and honestly study
    some matter, it's the \"creator\", anyone to which you could turn to if you need
    to grade your work and improve.\r\n\r\nNegative associations with \"authority\"
    are more a modern phenomena, related to the apparent disillusion people nurture
    towards the conduction of a community, state et al. and towards the possibility
    of peace, refusing the idea of war, which is sometimes unavoidable.\r\nIt's a
    negative mood which sets a \"pessimistic\" view upon one's personal improvement
    and upon a charitative attitude which should be universal, and not just \"tolerance\".\r\nOf
    course, the Roman model may not be the better to convey the inherently positive
    concept of \"authority\", but the forms are beautiful, associated with strenghth
    and grace, and \u2013 at least to me \u2013 friendly and not intimidatory.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-26 09:12:12'
date: '2006-09-18 07:00:21'
node_type: forum
title: Trajan's Columns

---
