---
author:
  name: Rhythmus.be
  picture: 111885
body: "Which classic designs Typophiles like to see revived into digital fonts?\r\n\r\nPlease
  mention the year of its release, its designer/punchcutter, the foundry/institution
  that issued the type, and, if possible, include a sample.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "De Roos Romein (1947, Sjoerd H. De Roos, Lettergieterij Amsterdam)\r\nLutetia
    (1923\u201324, Jan van Krimpen, Ensched\xE9)\r\nPierre Didot l'A\xEEn\xE9 (1819)\r\nRomain
    du Roi (1693\u20131745, Philippe Grandjean, Acad\xE9mie des Sciences)\r\n\r\nSome
    De Roos samples:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/deroos_72ppi_2_4229.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/deroos_72ppi_3_5019.jpg]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: dstype
      picture: 111104
    body: "Nice choice! \r\nCurrently I'm working on De Roos and believe it will be
      finished next year.\r\nI saw it on the \"Catalogue de caract\xE8res de la fonderie
      de caract\xE8res Plantin\" and I felt completely in love with that typeface.\r\n\r\nDino
      dos Santos\r\nDSType"
    children:
    - author:
        name: Rhythmus.be
        picture: 111885
      body: "Dino \u2014 Apart from a few comments, I put links to some larger scans
        in this thread: http://typophile.com/node/28266 (bottom of the page). The
        scans were taken from a Spanish/Portuguese edition of a specimen book of the
        Lettergierij Amsterdam \"voorheen Tetterode\". (The Etbs Plantin were the
        Belgian distributor of this Dutch foundry and are still active as the Belgian
        exclusive sales agent for Heidelberg Druckmaschinen AG.)\r\n\r\nI didn't know
        about your foundry. Beautiful typefaces, you have there! Please keep me informed
        of your De Roos revival: I am most interested."
      created: '2006-09-18 00:55:24'
    created: '2006-09-17 23:39:12'
  created: '2006-09-17 22:04:10'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: <a href="http://typophile.com/node/12787">Faces I Wish Were Digitized</a>
  created: '2006-09-17 22:17:12'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: "Grandjean (Romain du Roi) was digitised by Franck Jalleau in 1995-1997 for
    the Imprimerie Nationale. Don't know if it's available to buy.\r\n\r\nI would
    love to see, among other things, a digitisation of Touraine by Cassandre (Deberny
    & Peignot, 1947) or its lookalike Chambord by Excoffon (Olive, 1945-1951). Both
    can be seen in Jaspert, Berry & Johnson's Encycl. of Typefaces. Nicely post-deco
    and not quite as bizarre and dogmatic as Peignot.\r\n\r\nVery much looking forward
    to the digitisation of <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/WhatTheFont/forum/viewthread.php?threadid=37115\">Ronaldson</a>
    (MS&J, 1884), soon to be completed by Rebecca Alaccari (Canadatype). Not really
    what you would call a classic, but there's nothing quite like it around anymore,
    and surprisingly comfortable as a textface despite unclassical letterforms."
  created: '2006-09-17 22:36:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Marc, the Jalleau version is a digitization of what Grandjean ended up with;
    more interesting to me would be the digitization of the original design by the
    Bignon committee, especially the highly pure -if also rigidly ideological- italic.\r\n\r\nDino,
    how are you handling the rights issue?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-18 01:37:07'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Element (1934, Max Bitroff, Bauer). If only to shake it up a little with
    more recent typefaces of the same name; Bitroff got there first with the title,
    and did a culturally significant design at the same time.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Elementtitle_4017.png]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Bleisetzer
      picture: 111903
    body: "Sorry for disturbing.\r\nYou are showing a digital bold or xbold version
      of Element, right?\r\nHere is the regular one. And the guys' name is Bittrof
      not Bitroff - but this is only a minor detail.\r\n\r\nGroup Xa - Gebrochene
      Schriften - Gotisch\r\nElement schmalhalbfett \r\n\r\nBauersche Giesserei, Frankfurt
      am Main\r\nErstgu\xDF 1934\r\nMax Bittrof \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1_4154.jpg]"
    created: '2006-09-18 15:46:15'
  created: '2006-09-18 07:51:37'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "van Krimpen's Lutetia, Roman\xE9e and Romulus, of course. I think Fred Smeijers
    did revive one of them, but it was also never released."
  created: '2006-09-18 08:41:02'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "One of my wishes\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de/index.php?target=shop/shop_details&artikel_id=654&b=0004&pic=a&PHPSESSID=5bba8a32a7c6fec2232498258c8306ba\">Maximum
    A</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-18 08:42:48'
- author:
    name: Termopolium
  body: Another vote for Lutetia. Anybody else read Doyald Young's article about Van
    Krimpen?
  created: '2006-09-18 09:52:07'
- author:
    name: dstype
    picture: 111104
  body: "My specimens book was published by \xC9tablissements Plantin S.A. - Buxelles,
    Anvers.\r\nThe main languages in the book are Portuguese and Spanish, besides
    French.\r\n\r\nI started designing De Roos but then I stopped because there are
    legal issues I don't know how to handle. I totally ignore if the anyone owns the
    rights."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Rhythmus.be
      picture: 111885
    body: "Dino \u2014 Please keep up the good work on De Roos! As far as I remember,
      DTL tried to get the rights (not planning, though, to digitise/release the face),
      but did not succeed. I think it was because it's not all too clear who the present
      owner is. Likely the Buhrmann concern is involved (they own the company that
      formerly was the Lettergieterij Amsterdam); I grant the rightful owners are
      De Roos' heirs. I'll try to find out, as long as you're not giving this up.
      For Beauty's sake, please?"
    created: '2006-09-18 12:17:37'
  created: '2006-09-18 10:24:37'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: "Actually, Hrant, digitising the Bignon design would be fascinating for more
    than one reason. Grandjean had to change it because the details were more or less
    unfeasible in metal type, of course, whereas a digital version could be absolutely
    true. But at text size we would also see how well it works optically as it is.
    And probably have to agree with some of Grandjean's changes. First problems in
    sight: the skinny lowercase g and y.\r\n\r\nI must admit I never did really like
    the Romain du Roi for its symmetrically-seriffed ascenders. How can you get any
    flow into a text interspersed with Corinthian pillars?"
  created: '2006-09-18 11:01:16'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "Bram \u2014 Romulus has been digitsed by DTL; it's not as such on their website
    (preview only), but it might ship already. (They're in the process of converting
    their library into OpenType.)\r\n\r\nDTL has the rights on van Krimpen's designs,
    including lots of original drawings (for which, it seems, they paid a high price).
    The attempt is to digitise and revive JvK's oeuvre: http://www.dutchtypelibrary.nl/VanKrimpen.html.
    As far as I know, however, Lutetia and the Cancellaresca Bastarda will likely
    not be issued very soon. Roman\xE9e might be in the pipeline."
  created: '2006-09-18 12:04:27'
- author:
    name: dstype
    picture: 111104
  body: "I wont give up. I'm working carefully\r\n\r\nI wont give up. I'm working
    carefully on that project.\r\nI thought that De Roos was already public domain
    and I think that is a typeface of major typographic interest."
  created: '2006-09-18 12:50:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Doyald Young\u2019s article about Van Krimpen\r\n\r\nWerzat?\r\n\r\n> Grandjean
    had to change it because the details\r\n> were more or less unfeasible in metal
    type\r\n\r\nTrue, but I also think it was as much a stylistic imposition on his
    part. He shouldn't have done it. It's not like the world had a dearth of conventional
    italics.\r\n\r\n> symmetrically-seriffed ascenders\r\n\r\nI remember JFP also
    objecting to that, to the point of ridicule. But I see the positive in it: not
    only does it express a grand style ahead of its time (note how liked Democratica
    became centuries later) but I think they actually help readability (by reinforcing
    extenders). Which is not to say I think the RdR is highly readable overall.\r\n\r\n>
    it\u2019s not all too clear who the present owner is.\r\n\r\nIf a good effort
    at research validates this ambiguity, then I personally see the free third-party
    revival of the design as contingent only upon the informal blessing of De Roos's
    heir (unless he's unreasonable to the point of misanthropy, in which case I would
    ignore him). As a point of courtesy protocol however I would inform competing
    potential revivers of the decision.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-18 16:10:30'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Georg \u2013 you're not disturbing and thank you for the correction. Details
    are good. Yes I had drawn the schmalhalbfett not the mager. Yes I had missed the
    double t in Bittroff. Now I can fix them both.\r\n\r\nActually your example of
    Maximum A made me think that this type has another name in the English speaking
    world. It looks familiar \u2013 does anyone else agree?\r\n\r\nOther types on
    the wish list to be revived? Er, the Doves Type? (1900, T.J. Cobden Sanderson,
    Emery Walker, Edward Prince, Doves Press) or have we had this old chestnut already?
    Monotype Condensa? (designer unknown? date unknown?) The full family of Erbar
    Grotesk, not just the condensed version. Every time I look through an older specimen
    books I see stuff that I'm pretty sure has not yet been revived, but everytime
    I go online I get the opposite feeling!\r\n\r\nOr, coming back to De Roos, the
    Hollandse Mediaeval (1912, Sjoerd H. De Roos, Lettergieterij Amsterdam/Intertype)
    with its decorated initials...\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Rhythmus.be
      picture: 111885
    body: "Ben \u2014 The Doves Type has been revived\u2014from drowning\u2014already,
      by Torbj\xF6rn Olsson: http://www.sinnebild.se/font/large/doves.html. Have a
      look at his \"Troycer\" too.\r\n\r\nAs for De Roos: only his eponymous typeface
      is really worth mentioning. The Hollandsche Mediaevaal is of historical interest
      because of its widespread use in the Netherlands and Flanders, and, of course,
      for its being the first Dutch design since Fleischman, but it's an ungainly
      thing. (So in order not to bring anyone into temptation of reviving the old
      bastard, I'm not going to put up these scans.)"
    created: '2006-09-19 01:40:04'
  created: '2006-09-19 00:50:51'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Ludwig \u2013 that should be exhumed, resurrected and revived for the Doves!
    Did they use scuba divers? ; ) Thanks for the info. I didn't know about Torbj\xF6rn
    Olsson or his site. \r\n\r\nI had meant to put up a scan of the Hollandse Mediaeval
    Initials (if only because on the earlier thread Paul listed people are talking
    about reviving Helvetica Flair... honestly you can have a Helv Flair revival right
    after all the other <em>ungainly things</em> in the universe)\r\n\r\nBut I can't
    insert the image and don't know why; worked fine before.\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-19 09:21:32'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "A question to you all:\r\nWhat about the copyrights?\r\nLots of the old german
    fonts are still belonging to someone.\r\nIn my font collection I have some hundreds
    of examples of german fonts and all are scanned in low reselution and high res
    for a print-project what we'll start in 2007.\r\n\r\nIs it legal to offer and
    to use high res scans for typographists to revive these fonts? (Not only by law
    but although from an ethic standpoint).\r\n\r\nPlease let me know.\r\n\r\nHere
    is my font collection - all classified by DIN 16 518\r\n\r\nhttp://www.bleisetzer.de/index.php?target=shop/shop&b=0004\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de\" target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Preu\xDFisches
    Bleisatz-Magazin</a><br />\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de/img/ichbineinpreusse.mp3\"
    target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\"><i>\"Ich bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben?\"</i></a><br
    />"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Rhythmus.be
      picture: 111885
    body: "Georg \u2014 There is no problem with publishing specimens. After all,
      fonts are meant to be used in printing or other publishing projects, right?
      What others intend to do with those publications is something different, for
      that matter. For a digital revival, legally one would have to acquire the proper
      rights from the present owners, I guess, if the designs and/or names are not
      in the public domain already. How is Dipl.-Ing. Menzel managing the rights issue?
      http://www.romana-hamburg.de/fraktur1.htm\r\n\r\nI suggest you take contact
      with the Bund f\xFCr deutsche Schrift und Sprache. They published an interesting
      book with specimens of 114 German types, most of it Fraktur: Wolfgang Hendlmeier
      (ed.), <cite>Kunstwerke der Schrift.</cite> Gedichte und Sinnspr\xFCche im Kleide
      sch\xF6ner Druckschriften aus sechs Jahrhunderten, Bayreuth: Bund f\xFCr deutsche
      Schrift und Sprache, 1994.\r\n\r\nReviving typefaces of typographic interest,
      is imho always ethically right. If the designer is still alive, it makes no
      sense to \"revive\" a typeface of his; plagiarising his design would be robbery.
      If he's passed away, I think his children should benefit from their father's
      labour, to a certain extent. But if some clever boys managed to get hold of
      someone else's intellectual property, making money out of it by acting as monopolists,
      denying mankind access to its cultural heritage, ignoring these mercantile stolen
      \"rights\" is not only ethically correct, it's a moral obligation."
    created: '2006-09-19 20:18:55'
  created: '2006-09-19 17:07:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Man, you Germans sure used to know how to make Italics. What happened?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-19 17:13:11'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Sorry?\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-19 18:25:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, you weren't the only ones - the French also knew how to make them towards
    the end of the 19th century - but then all of you started falling for the Italian
    stuff. Revive the genius* of H\xF6hnisch, please.\r\n\r\n* Please see my post
    of September 20.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GenzschItalic_4457.jpg]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-19 18:42:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW Georg, for your consideration:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/28118\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-19 18:44:37'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Walter H\xF6hnisch's genius by designing the National in 1934?\r\nMay be
    it was the right time to make money with these kind of fonts but its opportunistic,
    isn't it? I do not think the National is a genius one, sorry.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1_3883.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    prefer the german types before 1933.\r\nOne of my favourite types what I'ld like
    to beware is e.g.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2_4361.jpg]\r\n\r\nYou
    know that?\r\nElegant-Grotesk halbfett\r\nD.Stempel AG, Frankfurt am Main\r\nErstgu\xDF
    1928\r\nGustav M\xF6hring\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de\"
    target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Preu\xDFisches Bleisatz-Magazin</a><br />\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de/img/ichbineinpreusse.mp3\" target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\"><i>\"Ich
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben?\"</i></a><br /> "
  created: '2006-09-19 19:44:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Georg, \"genial\" was too strong a term - sorry. I was rushed - normally
    I use that term very rarely - but instead of editing it and making your post confusing
    I've just asterisked it.\r\n\r\nThat said:\r\n1) Nobody's perfect, and the more
    type you make the more likely you'll end up with a lemon or two.\r\n2) Making
    money sometimes or even often (some would even say usually) does not preclude
    being intelligent, insightful or culturally responsible.\r\n\r\nLooking specifically
    at your two samples*, I would say:\r\n1) Elegant-Grotesk is cute[r], but not really
    significant. And I can see plently of issues of craft in its forms.\r\n2) National
    might have been overly nationalistic and/or mainstream when it was made, but right
    here right now it's more useful and interesting than Elegant-Grotesk.\r\n3) If
    you feel that either of those (and specifically Elegant-Grotesk)  are more interesting
    and more worthy of revival than the H\xF6hnisch sample I posted above, then we
    really are looking for very different things in type design.\r\n\r\n* And assuming
    you meant to say \"be aware\", not \"beware\" above.\r\n\r\n> There is no problem
    with publishing specimens.\r\n\r\nActually IIRC, P M Noordzij once told me (I
    have the email somewhere) that merely scanning a type sample and sending it to
    a friend is illegal in the Netherlands, much less \"publishing\" it. Of course,
    each country is different, but be careful of blanket statements.\r\n\r\n> mercantile
    stolen \u201Crights\u201D\r\n\r\nHere again I think you're being unfair.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Rhythmus.be
      picture: 111885
    body: "I should have been more precise. Why do you use fonts? Right, to set type.
      Should that mean, with those fonts of which you legally purchased the user's
      license, you're supposed to set running text only (for which, of course, you
      or your client has the proper copyrights)? Are you not allowed to set <cite>and</cite>
      publish alphabets and such? Of course you are. Probably someone did this before,
      though, and he might have done so in a particular inventively new composition,
      of which he, the type specimen designer, is the rightful owner. You cannot simply
      steel his work and copy it right along. But is P.M. Noordzij or whoever now
      going to tell whether \"The quick brown fox\" or \"Quousq; tandem\" has been
      set already in, say, 10/12, in that particular font, so that nobody else can
      do that any longer without copyright infringements? Honestly, that's mere nonsense!\r\n\r\nI
      suppose Georg and every other type collector that desires to give the world
      a glance at his collection, has to set those specimens all over again, instead
      of scanning those which are available already. Poor, poor world."
    created: '2006-09-21 02:29:07'
  created: '2006-09-21 01:40:53'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Well,\r\nfirst of all: Good Morning. Its 8:03 am in Germany and this is not
    my time.\r\nI'll think about your arguments, you brought logical ones.\r\nWhat
    I do is not only to collect fonts.\r\nMy place here is like a heater: I buy old
    german typesetting departments (there are still dozends of it all over Germany
    from family printing companies, which are existing since more than two or three
    generations).\r\nI clean and check the types and I print new ones with a full
    sort of alphabet, digits and - what is it in english \"Punkturen\" (all special
    signs). After printing I offer the type in my Online-Shop and give it back to
    printers again. Because I want it to be used in real life, not only sleeping in
    my cabinets. There is a small community of, let's say, 200 up to 300 printers
    from Germany, Italy, England and from the US, which buy and use my types.\r\nFor
    2007 I am planning a printing project - so I scan all my alphabets. May be you'll
    see it as senseful for your own projects to use one of my scans. Let me know.\r\nI
    want to look for some advices from some experienced typesetters here in Germany
    to make my own decision.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nGeorg\r\nPS: Please do not use those
    fonts between 1933 and 1945 - there are other fonts which even better characterize
    Germany. \r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de\" target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Preu\xDFisches
    Bleisatz-Magazin</a><br />\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de/img/ichbineinpreusse.mp3\"
    target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\"><i>\"Ich bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben?\"</i></a><br
    />"
  created: '2006-09-21 07:07:25'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "@ben_archer\r\n>Actually your example of Maximum A made me think that this
    type has another name in the English speaking world. It looks familiar \u2013
    does anyone else agree?\r\n\r\nDoes that reminds you of some Neville Brody stuff?
    \r\n\r\nps.\r\nMorgen, Georg "
  created: '2006-09-21 08:03:01'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Hallo Poms,\r\ndie typophile Welt ist klein, isn't it?\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de\" target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Preu\xDFisches
    Bleisatz-Magazin</a><br />\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de/img/ichbineinpreusse.mp3\"
    target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\"><i>\"Ich bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben?\"</i></a><br
    />"
  created: '2006-09-21 08:16:19'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "before even bothering about reviving atrocities* like National, Tannenberg,
    Gotenburg etc. \u2013 give me a digital Futura with optical sizes!\r\n\r\n* i
    mean it!"
  created: '2006-09-21 09:20:12'
- author:
    name: cromy
  body: "hrant said :\r\n> the H\xF6hnisch sample I posted above\r\n\r\nI thought
    the sample was Genzsch Antiqua - Kursiv, by Friedrich Bauer. Now I'm confused
    :( Looks very close to the version digitized by <a href=http://www.romana-hamburg.de/Schriftmappe.zip>G.
    Helzel</a>"
  created: '2006-09-21 09:58:06'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "This is Genzsch Antiqua kursiv:\r\n\r\nGenzsch & Heyse, Hamburg\r\nErstgu\xDF
    1908\r\nEntwurf Friedrich Bauer\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1_3474.jpg]\r\n\r\nFrom
    Walter H\xF6hnisch worked for Ludwig & Mayer.\r\nHere you can find all his fonts:\r\nhttp://www.klingspor-museum.de/KlingsporKuenstler/Schriftdesigner/Hoehnisch/Hoehnisch.pdf#search=%22walter%20h%C3%B6hnisch%22\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de\" target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Preu\xDFisches
    Bleisatz-Magazin</a><br />\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de/img/ichbineinpreusse.mp3\"
    target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\"><i>\"Ich bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben?\"</i></a><br
    />"
  created: '2006-09-21 10:11:18'
- author:
    name: cromy
  body: "Now I'm really confused. The Helzel version looks different.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/genzsch-helzel_5873.JPG]\r\n\r\n\r\nUnfortunately
    the pdf from Klingspor Museum doesn't have many samples.\r\nI think someone should
    make a searchable online database with low resolution samples of all those old
    fonts ..."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Rhythmus.be
      picture: 111885
    body: 'Great idea! The TypeBank: just load up the samples you''ve got, fill in
      the form with all the data there is to it. You can search by period style, designer,
      punch cutter, whether or not there exist digital revivals (with a listing) &c.
      &c.'
    created: '2006-09-21 10:34:07'
  created: '2006-09-21 10:26:53'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Alright, with Genzsch Antiqua Gerhard Helzel shows the right version and
    I the wrong one - sorry about that.\r\n\r\nThis is a scan from the original Genzsch
    & Heyse specimen from 1908:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/genzsch_4975.jpg]\r\n\r\ngrrrr..
    \r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de\" target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Preu\xDFisches
    Bleisatz-Magazin</a><br />\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de/img/ichbineinpreusse.mp3\"
    target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\"><i>\"Ich bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben?\"</i></a><br
    /> "
  created: '2006-09-21 12:01:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Futura is a caricature of type. My pet name for it is Fartura.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Rhythmus.be
      picture: 111885
    body: "> before even bothering about reviving atrocities* like National,\r\n>
      Tannenberg, Gotenburg etc. \u2013 give me a digital Futura with\r\n> optical
      sizes!\r\n\r\nIt seems Paul Renner's Futura was Adolf Hitler's favourite typeface:\r\nhttp://www.druckerey.de/pdf/FrakturschriftSZ2005.pdf\r\n\r\nTannenberg
      has been revived, by both G. Helzel and Delbanco Schriften. "
    created: '2006-09-21 15:32:00'
  created: '2006-09-21 15:25:40'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "<i>\"Futura is a caricature of type. My pet name for it is Fartura.\"</i>\r\n\r\nYou
    are joking, are'nt you?\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de\"\r\ntarget=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Preu\xDFisches
    Bleisatz-Magazin</a><br />\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-21 19:39:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, and sadly neither was Renner. Or maybe he was simply being <cite>opportunistic</cite>...\r\n\r\nAnd
    something else to fan the mainstream flames:\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_fraktur1.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-21 19:57:15'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "@ Ludwig, do you understand this german article you sent the links from?\r\n\"It
    seems Paul Renner\u2019s Futura was Adolf Hitler\u2019s favourite typeface:\r\nhttp://www.druckerey.de/pdf/FrakturschriftSZ2005.pdf\"\r\n\r\nWhat
    you say is absolutely wrong.\r\nThere is not one sentence in the article about
    Paul Renner.\r\n\r\nPaul Renner was striktly forbidden to work as a typographist
    after 1933. He was against the Nazis. \r\n\r\nThe article explains about the so
    called \"Fraktur-Verbot\" (all use of Fraktur were forbidden) sind 1941. Only
    Antiqua fonts where allowed for all administrative letters.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Rhythmus.be
      picture: 111885
    body: "Lieber Georg \u2014 Haben Sie den Artikel gelesen? Ich nehme an Sie verstehen
      ja besser Deutsch als ich. Bitte keine Schlauheiten, besonders wenn Sie sich
      nicht mal die M\xFChe nehmen zu pr\xFCfen entweder was Sie verk\xFCndigen richtig
      sei.\r\n\r\n> There is not one sentence in the article about Paul Renner.\r\n\r\n<cite>Da\xDF
      Hitler die gebrochenen Schriften nicht mochte, zeigt Luidl an einem Beispiel:
      ein Wettbewerb f\xFCr einen Urkunden-Entwurf. <strong>Hitler entscheidet sich
      f\xFCr die Futura</strong>, eine serifenlose, moderne Schrift. Luidl f\xFChrt
      dazu nichts weiter aus, dabei ist diese Geschichte hochinteressant und unterstreicht
      Hitlers modernen Geschmack. Die Futura war 1928 unter den H\xE4nden <strong>Paul
      Renner</strong>s entstanden mit dem etwas absurden Anspruch, die Schrift dieser
      Zeit zu sein. [\u2026] Hitlers Leute, so Luidl, nannten <strong>Renner</strong>
      einen Kulturbolschewisten, machten da also keinen Unterschied, weil sie eigentlich
      der Fraktur anhingen. Hitler selbst differenzierte gewi\xDF unbewu\xDFt zwischen
      <strong>Renner</strong> und Bauhaus, <strong>wenn er die Futura anderen Schriften
      vorzog</strong> und gegen das Bauhaus wetterte</cite>\r\n\r\nSS. 2\u20133"
    created: '2006-09-21 20:38:42'
  created: '2006-09-21 20:10:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Obsessively linking everything -such as the future of a resplendent and highly
    promising typestyle- to the misdeeds and twists of your previous generation is
    holding you (and by extension the whole world) back. Don't be such Hellers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Rhythmus.be
      picture: 111885
    body: "Hrant \u2014 That's what they call \"die Deutsche Betroffenheit\".\r\n\r\nBut
      let's us continue talking about type. Even Hermann Zapf drew a blackletter (his
      Gilgenhart), <cite>after</cite> the War. I notice a growing interest for the
      blackletter (Fraktur, Gotisch, Rundgotisch, Schwabacher) in the type world.
      Books are being published, in Germany, typepset in blackletter again. "
    created: '2006-09-21 20:44:32'
  created: '2006-09-21 20:15:07'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Whee, van Krimpen's type in digital! Now if I can only read Dutch :)\r\n\r\nSpeaking
    of Romain du Roi revival, I did make a topic about it here. Somebody -- that I
    unfortunately don't remember -- also replied that he was in the process of digitizing
    it. Here's to seeing it soon."
  created: '2006-09-21 20:52:56'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Lieber Ludwig,\r\nich bin froh, da\xDF Sie besser deutsch verstehen und schreiben
    als ich englisch.\r\n\r\nIch kenne den Autor des Beitrages im PDF. Er ist ein
    guter Bleisatz-Freund und ein guter Kunde von mir. Wir haben fast t\xE4glich Kontakt
    \xFCber ein deutsches Typographen-Forum. Aus diesem Grund kenne ich auch seine
    Einstellung zu diesem Thema.\r\n\r\nIhr genanntes Beispiel zeigt eindeutig, da\xDF
    Hitler die Fraktur ablehnt. Eben weil er sich stattdessen im Beispiel f\xFCr die
    Futura entscheidet. Aber das bedeutet doch nicht, da\xDF die Futura seine Lieblingsschrift
    ist.\r\n\r\nIf you ask me which font I like more: \r\nUnivers or Folio-Grotesk
    (I don't like both) I'ld say: Folio.\r\nBecause its from K.F.Bauer. But this does
    not mean that I like the Folio. \r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de\"
    \r\ntarget=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Preu\xDFisches Bleisatz-Magazin</a><br />\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-21 20:55:06'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: ">Books are being published, in Germany, typepset in blackletter.\r\n\r\nTell
    me, show me. Blackletter for copytext, i would directly go to my local bookstore
    buying it. I don't mean headlines in fraktur and FF Din for the copy ;)"
  created: '2006-09-21 20:57:01'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "@ Ludwig\r\n\r\nYou are thinking in stereotypes.\r\n\"The Germans\" is as
    wrong as \"The Americans\".\r\n\r\nBut its alright.\r\nWould be more honest to
    ask me to leave instead of starting to flame me, mh? Question of style.\r\n\r\nHowever:
    All the best for your stereotype futures, guys.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de\" \r\ntarget=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Preu\xDFisches
    Bleisatz-Magazin</a><br />\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Rhythmus.be
      picture: 111885
    body: "Georg \u2014 Ich meinte nicht, alle Deutsche sind betroffen. Ich habe eine
      Menge, *nette* Freunde in Deutschland und \xD6sterreich und es wundert mich
      immer, da\xDF fast alle \u2014 vor allem die etwa \xE4ltere Leute \u2014 eine
      unheimliche Angst haben f\xFCr alles was der Vergangenheit anbetrifft. Spricht
      man denn nicht von der \"deutschen Betroffenheit\" um diese geistige Lage anzudeuten?
      Jedenfalls, ich verstehe das gar nicht; Ihr sollt ja stolz sein auf Ihrem gro\xDFen
      Kulturschatz. Der Hitler hatte ja die Futura gemocht. Nun, was soll das? Das
      hei\xDFt doch nicht wir sollten allen nur deswegen die Schrift ablehnen? Bitte
      f\xFChlen Sie sich nicht so schnell angegriffen. Wir Buchdruck-Drucker sind
      nicht ganz zahlreich, und sollten einander nicht abfallen weil wir die Geschichte
      anders verstehen."
    created: '2006-09-21 21:32:54'
  created: '2006-09-21 20:59:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I notice a growing interest for the blackletter (Fraktur,\r\n> Gotisch,
    Rundgotisch, Schwabacher) in the type world.\r\n\r\nIndeed. But we're just warming
    up, and laymen (you know,\r\nthe people with the money) barely have an inkling
    of it still.\r\n\r\n> Blackletter for copytext\r\n\r\nFirst, we need the fonts.
    Contemporary, highly functional ones.\r\n\r\n> You are thinking in stereotypes.\r\n>
    \u201CThe Germans\u201D is as wrong as \u201CThe Americans\u201D.\r\n\r\nBut then
    what about calling the TypeTable \"very American\" ? :-)\r\nStereotypes -like
    knives- exist for a good reason - it's simply a\r\nmatter of using them right.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-21 21:16:08'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: ">First, we need the fonts. Contemporary, highly functional on\r\nWhat does
    \"contemporary\" mean for you, in this case.\r\nDo you talk about s.th. like \"Yellow\",
    you showed me once...\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-21 21:31:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yellow is only marginally, and in fact unintentionally, Fraktur.\r\nThe closest
    thing to the \"ideal\" running around my head is Hans\r\nHeitmann's Fraktoer -
    a small sample can be seen here:\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_fraktur2.html
    _\r\nBut it's only a beginning attempt (for one thing it's too chirographic).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-21 21:40:05'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "Poms \u2014 Jacques Derrida, <cite>Meine Chancen</cite>, Berlin: Verlag Brinkmann
    & Bose, 1994. Forssman and de Jong show its opening page on p. 40 of their <cite>Detailtypografie</cite>
    (first edition).\r\n\r\nI acknowledge that Derrida is not the most common author
    and likely the rehabilitation of blackletter is indeed a postmodernist phenomenon.
    But still, such a blatant citation of a typographic past, that for short was deemed
    to have been buried forever in the ruins of 1945\u2026 Nonetheless I don't feel
    quite comfortable with blackletter for copytext, not because of its supposed reminiscences,
    but precisely because to me it's nothing more than \"la nostalgie postmoderne\".
    And I <cite>hate</cite> postmodernism!\r\n\r\n> What does \u201Ccontemporary\u201D
    mean for you, in this case.\r\n\r\nSomething like this? http://www.underware.nl/site2/index.php3?id1=fakir&id2=overview\r\n\r\nBlackliteral
    postmodernism, as I said. "
  created: '2006-09-21 21:50:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Jacques Derrida, <cite>Meine Chancen</cite>\r\n\r\nIf the blackletter is
    actually used for the\r\ntext and not just headings: image please.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    if one wanted to mark a large stride in re-legitimizing blackletter, one would
    use it to set book about Nazi atrocities, or Jewish rights, or maybe even Yiddish.\r\n\r\nFakir:
    very nice. Not text.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Rhythmus.be
      picture: 111885
    body: "Derrida was, as you probably know, a Jewish author.\r\n-\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/alte_schwabacher_5497.jpg]"
    created: '2006-09-22 02:08:23'
  created: '2006-09-22 01:09:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "He was?! A definite plus here. Cool.\r\nLet me see if UCLA has this.\r\n\r\nThose
    pilcrows are pretty strangely used eh?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-22 03:49:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ludwig, UCLA does not have it, so I will again ask you for the favor\r\nof
    a hi-res scan, of that page. But if you decline, no hard feelings.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-22 04:19:29'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "@ ben_archer\r\n\r\nA digital version of Element is available\r\nhttp://www.romana-hamburg.de/fraktur6.htm\r\n\r\nAnd
    some other \"Neugothische Schriften\" too, like Tannenberg, Gotenburg, Deutschland."
  created: '2006-09-22 07:55:12'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "@ Poms\r\nAre the Heltzel digitalizations realized professionally?\r\nWhat
    do you think?\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de\" \r\ntarget=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Preu\xDFisches
    Bleisatz-Magazin</a><br />\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-22 12:09:05'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Fascinating thread gentlemen.\r\n\r\nThank you Thomas for the link about
    Heltzel's digital version of Element. Most useful, and previously unknown to me.
    \r\n\r\nThe alternative (and more loaded) term I've come across for 'Neugothische
    Schriften' is \u2018schaftstiefelgrotesks\u2019 or \u2018jackboot gothics\u2019
    \u2013 particularly in reference to the National, Tannenberg and Gotenburg you
    mention above. I understand some of what Georg says about this and I'm sympathetic
    to it (even if Hrant is not). For this reason I prefer your 'Neugothische Schriften'
    which I roughly translate as 'modernised blackletter'. Element was perhaps the
    best attempt at this.\r\n\r\nMy own unofficial theory is that the blackletter
    types have been and continue to be rehabilitated via youth culture; nowadays we
    might not read it in books so much, but it'll be splashed all over the t-shirt
    next to you. The old heavy metal and punk styles continue to get recycled \u2013
    all my skater/punker students wouldn't be seen dead in anything less than a really
    heavy fraktur... preferably printed black on black! (Getting them to actually
    read what it says might be the next challenge.)\r\n\r\nFrom those students point
    of view \u2013 that I think Futura was/is a pinnacle of modernist achievement,
    and that I'm suspicious (hateful is not right) of postmodernism, just makes me
    look like an old fart... like Hitler. But I can live with that : )"
  created: '2006-09-22 13:52:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> nowadays we might not read it in books so much, but\r\n> it\u2019ll be
    splashed all over the t-shirt next to you.\r\n\r\nBut I think and hope that its
    revival in the realm of conscious/display usage will naturally lead to its eventual
    re-use for subconscious/text - once we properly apply the element of subtelty,
    the key ingredient of text face design.\r\n\r\nPostmodernism: don't judge it based
    on the prototypical stunts by juveniles and hooligans that we saw in the 90s.
    To me, PoMo holds great promise (once we completely get over it as a fashion)
    because it embodies the human reality much better than Modernism, which is for
    circuit boards, not humans. Our teachers were wrong.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-22 16:08:01'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "@ben_archer\r\nI did use the term \"Schaftstiefelgrotesk\", but i changed.
    Even if there was no reign of Nationalsocialism, there would be formmodels you
    could compare to those of the existing \"Neugotische Schriften\". \r\nThesis:\r\nI
    think the \"strictness\" and simplicity of the forms were influenced by the former
    Groteskschriften like Akzidenz Grotesk..., too. Even something like the \"Bauhaus
    modernism\" had influences on the development. \r\nI think of, for example, Tannenberg
    (my favourite) as an excellent display fontface.\r\n\r\n@Bleisetzer\r\nI've only
    heard that Henzel digital fonts are \"good\" or \"quite good\", whatever it means.
    I don't expect opentype features and such. Only \"proper\" outlines, the right
    ligatures, long-s, etc. Mr. Henzel should offer PDF to download, maybe i get in
    contact with him.\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-26 10:52:38'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Hi. Thomas, I think I agree with you that the forms would have changed regardless
    of the politics of the day. After all there have been rationalisms of the Gotische
    Schriften ever since D\xFCrer. Thanks for sharing your favourite with us.\r\n\r\n(Veering
    wildy off-topic) Hrant, I didn't say I judged Postmodernism; merely that I'm suspicious
    of it. <em>Had I judged it, I might have said that PoMo held great promise \u2013
    as a fashion.</em> Your appeal not to judge... begs the question, well, what are
    we to judge Postmodernism by? And guess what, every time the question gets framed,
    the terms of reference have moved... so that's why I'm suspicious.\r\n\r\nMost
    theories apply themselves more readily to circuit boards than to homo horribilis.
    But to sloganise reaction to any teacher's viewpoint is perhaps to miss the fundamental
    point of education (a.k.a. find stuff out for yourself) Agreed?\r\n\r\nMeanwhile
    I'll call for a digital revival of Cheltenham Inline. It's from ATF, so I guess
    M.F. Benton, but I don't know the date. Maybe 1912? Those old guys. Sheeesh.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CheltInline_5799.jpg]"
  created: '2006-09-26 12:18:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> what are we to judge Postmodernism by?\r\n\r\nIts merits with respect to
    serving mankind.\r\n\r\n> But to sloganise reaction to any teacher\u2019s viewpoint
    is perhaps\r\n> to miss the fundamental point of education (a.k.a. find stuff
    out\r\n> for yourself) Agreed?\r\n\r\nIs education really about finding your own
    way? I would actually say the opposite: it's to learn how to behave in one's environment
    - to meet the system's expectations of what you should know. Personal discovery
    certainly does happen, but I think formal education sees that as a bug, not a
    feature. :-/  In fact the limits of formal education are parallel to those of
    Modernism: they both focus on the formal, the superficial, the mechanical. This
    is only half of our reality, and PoMo -if applied selflessly, instead of as a
    means of artistic expression- can be an invaluable link to the other half; I say
    \"link\" because I feel the other half is essentially out of our conscious reach,
    although I believe it's what makes us most \"real\".\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nCheltenham
    rules.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-26 16:50:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Is education really about finding your own way?</em>\r\n\r\nIt depends
    on the size of the class.\r\nBecause each child/student is different, each has
    to be educated differently (I forget which educationalist said that, but I would
    agree, although in practice it is possible to find similarities that are project-based
    and provide the same instruction -- whether that's considered training or education).\r\n\r\nI
    had the privilege of teaching a class of 16 students, in a four-hour practicum
    session, and found that it was just about possible to give each student individual
    attention. Although some always ended up demanding more time, which is a dilemma;
    should the more able students allow the less able that extra time, or should everyone
    get the same time? Or are those who wheedle more time doing it for selfish or
    social reasons? Etc, etc. \r\n\r\nSo, in that 15 minutes, the teacher's job is
    to get inside the student's head and help them solve the design problem in a manner
    that results in personal growth, rather than just following what is establishment-rote,
    or trendy, or the way the student has always done it (lazy), or the way that would
    impress other students, or the way the teacher would do it, or the way that would
    score most marks, or look best in a portfolio.\r\n\r\nNow, you could say that
    if the teacher takes such a personal approach, it is postmodern, because the intent
    is to decontextualize the design process. But on the other hand, the very notion
    of educating the individual is so very modern. As an alternative, the collaborative
    approach to design education is very hard to pull off, especially given the increasing
    hold of the performance principle in the sphere of art education. However, there
    are some who try, for instance with students working in teams on real-world projects
    for local communities."
  created: '2006-09-26 19:14:09'
- author:
    name: Randolph Burke
    picture: 111910
  body: "Dear Ludwig,\r\n\r\nI am surprised that no one has mentioned the roman seen
    in Il Manuale di Cottura of 1478. It was a constant reference for many punchcutters
    of the 17th century, yet it has strangely gone un-revived by modern designers.
    I believe that Johnathan Hoefler started a revival for a magazine a some point
    in the mid 1990s but the project took another turn. I have considered reviving
    this myself, but my corporate clients don't like revivals very much. I examined
    the copy at St Bride Printing Library a few years back whilst I was at Typotechnica,
    but upon my last visit I was unable to locate it.\r\n\r\nPerhaps one of you should
    look into it!\r\n\r\nI would post some of my photos, but I can't figure out this
    confounded system.\r\n\r\nSincerely,\r\nRandolph T. Burke"
  created: '2006-09-26 20:29:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, images please!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-26 20:37:26'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: "To insert an image, just click \"Insert image\" under the editing box and
    follow the instructions. Max. width 600 px. For further details, check <a href=\"http://typophile.com/readme\">Forum
    guidelines</a>.\r\n(Actually it can be more than 600, we'd just have to scroll
    sideways.)"
  created: '2006-09-27 08:19:23'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Hmmm. Much to think about here. Maybe <em>learning</em> is what we do for
    ourselves and <em>education</em> is what is there to keep us in our places. Maybe
    this is semantic hairsplitting, but the two are not always the same. When I go
    back to Hrant's slogan I realise that many of my teachers were not wrong, but
    then they didn't always reside in the classroom. So I must be meaning some wider
    concept of education here.\r\n\r\nAs for PoMo's putative <em>merits with respect
    to serving mankind.</em> I'm not necessarily served better by postmodern typeface
    design, if that's what you mean (and at this point we have to take into account
    those 90s hooligans). But at least I don't have to introduce Modernism to anyone
    with an upfront disclaimer that they should disregard the early posturings of
    those 1920s juveniles... I mean, what were we going to do? wait for Modernism
    to 'mature'? I disagree with the claim that Modernism's focus was (on the) superficial.
    It's enough for me to note that 'serious' design companies like the Dyson Corporation
    still use Futura as an advertising collateral typeface, 80 years later. I just
    don't see that happening with Template Gothic. Yet.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile I'll join
    the call for Randolph to post images of the 1478 roman. And I'd like to see this
    classic in digital format; Granby, designer(s) unknown \u2013 possibly based on
    Johnston's Underground Lettering. Stephenson Blake Foundry. About 1930. Elsner
    & Flake have done this, but I think their family is incomplete. Apparently it's
    also the basis of Jeremy Tankard's <a/href=\"http://www.typography.net/type/wayfarer.htm\">Wayfarer.</a>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Granby-scan_5532.jpg]"
  created: '2006-10-01 11:51:51'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "While we're on the subject of serving mankind, I found this gem on John Maeda's
    Simplicity Blog.\r\n\r\nThese are two maxims that distinguishes the technologist
    from the humanist:\r\nTechnologist: I do, because I can.\r\nHumanist: I do, because
    I care.\r\n\r\nI interpreted the former as PoMo, and the latter as 'matured' PoMo
    or Humanism.\r\n\r\nTechnology, he said, can create progress. And hasn't PoMo
    does the same thing to typography? But it's certainly not justifiable to do things
    just because one could. Egoistically, if you will.\r\n\r\n'Matured' PoMo, on the
    other hand, strives to serve others while still maintaining the same \"I do\"
    attitude of experimentation and playfulness.\r\n\r\nIt's all about \"humanized
    technology\" like Mr. Maeda put it, or in our context, \"experimentation that
    serve others\"."
  created: '2006-10-02 03:38:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I agree somewhat, but to refine it I would say that the hooligan PoMoist
    is \"I do, because I am\" (as in self-centered, yes) while the mature PoMoist
    is \"I do, because I can't fully know\" (as in there's always something new to
    create). Hmmm, not too good - let me try another way. The hooligan PoMoist wants
    dynamism/change because the establishment shunns him and his -valid- instincts
    and he hates that, while the mature PoMoist wants dynamism/change because he knows
    the establishment is full of it, even though he doesn't know exactly what's going
    on either, but that's OK because he admits it, plus nobody really knows anyway,
    it's just that some people act like they do, and they suck.\r\n\r\nModernism is
    about Control. PoMo is about relinquishing control.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-02 04:27:38'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Hmm, your thoughts about the hooligan (pardon the term) and the mature PoMoists
    are interesting. I have a hard time distinguishing between the two, though, especially
    when you tried to explain it the second time around.\r\n\r\nFor instance:\r\n-
    Being shunned by the establishment, and\r\n- Knowing that the establishment is
    full of themselves\r\nIs an effect and cause of PoMo in general, don't you think?
    You know that they're full of themselves, so that's why you're alienated by them.
    A call for dynamism/change, then, is a natural response to that. Every PoMoist
    has to have that.\r\n\r\nI do like your first two statements, though, when you
    distinguish PoMoists by their intent. One do it to please himself (I would call
    this, pardon my term once again, \"masturbatory\"), the other do it in an honest
    passion for learning and discovery.\r\n\r\nI think that your point of view is
    a great angle of looking at PoMo.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I think that the hooligan
    wants change for its own sake (which is not bad, by the way, just poorly defined),
    while the mature wants change because he knows that without change, he won't progress
    any further.\r\n\r\nThe subject of control and relinguishing control is mighty
    interesting, too, and as I said, is yet another angle of looking at the subject."
  created: '2006-10-02 06:55:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ludwig (or I guess anybody else who has it), I'd highly appreciate a hi-res
    scan of the Derrida setting shown in the post of 21 September, 2006 - 6:08pm,
    if possible.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 05:18:15'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/schwabacher_4924.png]'
  children:
  - author:
      name: Rhythmus.be
      picture: 111885
    body: "Hrant \u2014 This really isn't something special. Just good old Alte Schwabacher
      (don't know whether the one from URW or Berthold; let's hope its not the BQ
      ;-), used for body text.\r\n\r\nForssman & de Jong write: \"Eine Anwendung,
      wie geschaffen zum Beweis, da\xDF gebrochene Schrift lebt, solange es unvoreingenommene
      Typografen gibt.\" That designer was G\xFCnter Bose, who says to have become
      a blackletter enthusiast while reading Albert Kapr.\r\n\r\nThe application and
      use of the Schwabacher is correct, for that manner: ligatures, long s etc. The
      designer quotes early sixteenth century typography by putting the title right
      in the body text, on the first page immediately after the end papers and by
      consequently setting CHancen (instead of Chancen), as was proper use for the
      word GOtt.\r\n\r\nThis quotation mania is all too pomo for me. But quite appropriate
      for setting a text by the upper pomo guru Derrida. It wouldn\u2019t surprise
      me that the designer thought of the Judenschwabacher anecdote, when choosing
      a proper typeface for this Jewish author. Again, that kitschy pomo irony!\r\n\r\n[Please
      download the file soon, so that I can delete it from this thread \u2014 it's
      consuming to much memory and bandwith.] "
    created: '2006-10-22 17:47:10'
  created: '2006-10-22 17:44:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wow, I think that must be the largest image ever posted to Typophile... I
    can hear people cursing me.  :-/ But as far as I'm concerned: thank you thank
    you!! :-)  And yes, I've downloaded it. But I don't think removing the reference
    from your post will get rid of it from Typophile's server...\r\n\r\n> This really
    isn\u2019t something special.\r\n\r\nWell, not the font - but the contemporary
    usage for text certainly is!\r\nI've been looking for a while.\r\n\r\nBut wait
    a second: just to check, when you talk about \"quotes\", you don't mean that the
    blackletter was in fact only used for peripheral material and not the whole body
    text, do you?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Rhythmus.be
      picture: 111885
    body: "Unfortunately there is all of a sudden just \"reply\". I can't \"edit\"
      and hence not delete the image. So I guess our moderators will have to. (I'm
      sorry for consuming your server's space.)\r\n\r\n> you don\u2019t mean that
      the blackletter was in fact only used for peripheral material\r\n\r\nI don't.
      As you can see yourself, the complete body text is set in Schwabacher. As a
      matter of fact, it's the other way around: it's the marginal notes that are
      set in Antiqua (Janson?).\r\n\r\nBy \"quoting\" I meant that nasty pomo habit
      of not being able to invent something from it's own and thus lending or even
      plagiarising innovations from elder traditions. I do not mean to say that we
      shouldn\u2019t look to tradition, on the contrary, but we should do so with
      respect and with a meaningful purpose, that it is with a practical function
      in mind. PoMo quotes/cites the givens of the past only with nihilistic irony,
      playing around with functionality that was devised to a proper means and with
      sincerity."
    created: '2006-10-22 18:40:04'
  created: '2006-10-22 17:55:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">kitschy pomo irony\r\n\r\nEven more so because Derrida is a Jewish author
    like George Allen is the Jewish Senator from Virginia.~"
  created: '2006-10-22 19:08:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't get it, why is Derrida not \"really Jewish\"? Is it like Thomas Friedman
    and Mordecai Vanunu aren't \"really Jewish\"? I assume you have an official body
    that decides these things...\r\n\r\nLudwig, the PoMo you speak of is the PoMo
    that has been,\r\nnot the PoMo that could -and should- be. Please see above.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-22 20:33:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Derrida not \u201Creally Jewish\u201D\r\n\r\nDerrida is Jewish by ancestry,
    but was raised in a French Algerian milieu that wanted to distance itself from
    Judaism--the same background as Senator George Allen's mother. And it seems that
    he knew little of Judaism and especially found nothing to admire or adopt consciously
    from Jewish religion or tradition. Unlike Allen's mother, Derrida never hid his
    Jewish ancestry. But neither did he learn anything about Judaism or affiliate
    with anything Jewish. \r\n\r\n'Judaism' is a term that labels many things: an
    ethnic group, a religion, a culture, a community, a nation. They are all different,
    but overlap. Some people belong in many categories, some in a few. I am just saying
    that if you are only are Jewish by ancestry and otherwise don't belong to any
    of the other categories and say you couldn't care less, I don't count you as Jewish.
    So for me neither Derrida nor Senator Allen are Jewish. Others will have other
    views, and that is fine with me.  \r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://muse.jhu.edu/cgi-bin/access.cgi?uri=/journals/shofar/v021/21.2cohen.html\">Here</a>
    is a review of a book about Derrida's Judaism that shares my opinion. \r\n\r\nThere
    is not one official body but many, and they disagree about who is Jewish--typically
    Jewish :) "
  created: '2006-10-22 21:17:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You seem to want to exclude huge chunks of your own people. Considering everything
    (like the concern that Arabs will one day outnumber Jews in Israel) this doesn't
    seem very smart. And what about who's American? I suspect your standards there
    are diametrically opposed... As for George Allen, you should ask yourself why
    he -as a US Senator- is so intent on being considered Jewish. Is it all due to
    him being an idiot?\r\n\r\n> \u2018Judaism\u2019 is a term that labels many things:
    an ethnic group,\r\n> a religion, a culture, a community, a nation. They are all\r\n>
    different, but overlap. Some people belong in many categories,\r\n> some in a
    few.\r\n\r\nBut the lion's share of the Venn diagram is the religion.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-22 21:38:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">he -as a US Senator- is so intent on being considered Jewish\r\n\r\nHrant,
    you must be reading one of your usual 'reliable sources'.\r\n\r\nAccording to
    the unreliable sewage we read here in Virginia, such as the Washington Post, and
    what we hear on TV from Allen himself, Allen considers himself a Christian, and
    is one. \r\n\r\nHe reacted with embarassment when his Jewish ancestry was 'outed'
    and accused a reporter of 'casting aspersions'. The Forward Jewish newspaper in
    New York first pointed out that his mother came from an old Tunesian Jewish family.
    As a result of then being asked about it, he this month asked his mother, and
    she finally admitted her Jewish ancestry to him.\r\n\r\n>the lion\u2019s share
    of the Venn diagram is the religion.\r\n\r\nWell, if you ask American Reform Jews,
    they would probably agree. But if you ask Israelis, most of whom are very anti-clerical
    and very any of whom are anti-religious, they would vehemently disagree.  "
  created: '2006-10-22 22:05:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That's right, I forgot that you own all the \"reliable sources\".\r\nAnd
    I do mean own in the literal sense.\r\n\r\n> ... they would vehemently disagree.\r\n\r\nBut
    they don't count as Jews in your book anyway.\r\nOn the other hand at least they
    believe strongly in torture:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/in_depth/6063386.stm#table\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-22 23:22:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, in one spot that Derrida page has two pilcrows in a row - something
    I hadn't seen before. Does that mean some greater separation than just a paragraph
    break, like maybe a new section (albeit sans title)?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-23 04:49:14'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: 'It''s in the third row, *after the book title*. I guess this is to signify
    that here the book begynneth. A greater separation, indeed: not a paragraph break,
    but a page or even section break.'
  created: '2006-10-23 13:46:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Oh, the title is inline?! Niiice.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-23 16:04:24'
date: '2006-09-17 22:02:26'
node_type: forum
title: Revival wish list

---
