---
author:
  name: cuttlefish
  picture: 111881
body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/palormak-sample2_5729.png]\r\n\r\nOK, it
  has a name just because I need to call the file something. I think it could do with
  a better one.\r\nSo, here's my attempt at a kinda-sorta semiserif font.\r\nAll the
  cahracters I have so far are inthe PDF. Trying to do it all with off-brand software
  is taking some getting used to, but it's all I can afford right now.\r\n\r\n\r\n-EDIT-
  OK, there's a revised PDF also attached, but the original is still there for comparison.\r\n\r\n-EDIT-
  Upon further reflection, this is hardly a semi-serif at all anymore. I might generate
  a sans version eventually, then I'll have something to work between."
comments:
- author:
    name: Pixion
  body: "Cuttlefish,\r\n\r\nInteresting. The serifs and shape of some of the bowls
    have a very Art Deco / Jugendstil feeling. Personally, I am trying to link design
    elements like serifs, contrast, stress etc. with how letters where drawn with
    pen or brush etc. With that perspective, some of the letters feel a bit off (v/w:
    bottom serifs, o/g: contrast, s: no serif etc.). \r\n\r\nNote that this is just
    one way of looking at it, which is probably a bit too restrictive. But in general,
    I think letters of a font should form a cohesive set linked by a common design
    language. \r\n\r\nWhat about for instance use the same contrast / stress for all
    the letters? \r\n\r\nSebastian\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: cuttlefish
      picture: 111881
    body: "I'm not sure what you mean about a lack of contrast in the \"o\" and \"g\".
      I thought the entire font was lacking contrast. Or did you mean something else?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nI
      have an alternate \"g\" around here somewhere... give me a sec..."
    created: '2006-09-26 21:45:12'
  created: '2006-09-26 06:32:59'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/palormak3-sample2_5704.png]\r\nSo here
    I've swapped out for the alternate \"g\" and clipped the lower serifs from the
    lc \"v\" and \"w\", and placed a ball terminal on the \"y\".\r\n\r\nAlso I did
    up some of the ligatures that weren't there before and expanded the numbers. They
    felt too narrow before, but some still don't work for me. The \"2\" is much improved,
    but I don't know about the rest...\r\n\r\n\r\nnot sure what I did here... can't
    upload a PDF to a reply comment, I guess. I'll try editing the first one."
  created: '2006-09-27 01:20:45'
- author:
    name: Pixion
  body: "You're right, there is no contrast throughout. Maybe thats why I can't seem
    to find that 'binding unity'.\r\n\r\nI like this g and v better. Why did you put
    inktraps in the v, w etc? \r\n\r\nThe numerals seem a bit flat, besides the 1,
    they lack serifs and /or other common design elements. \r\n\r\nThe fi ligature
    is funny. It is sort of a non-ligature as the dot of the i is still interfering
    with the arc of the f!\r\n\r\nSebastian"
  created: '2006-09-27 03:19:22'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Aww, and I had to make the \"i\" on \"\uFB01\" so short to make the dot fit
    like that. I prefer to think of it engaging the arc of the \"f\" in a deep sensuous
    kiss than interfering with it.\r\n\r\nThe inktraps felt like a good idea at the
    time. With or without serifs, the angle joint of the \"v\" and \"w\", etc., get
    too thick for my eyes. This might not be the best solution as I've implemented.
    I'm open to suggestions for a better one.\r\n\r\nI had hoped the nearly consistent
    line weight would be enough to provide \"binding unity\" as you put it. The crossbars
    and the long, inconsistently applied serifs do throw that off a bit. I'm not convinced
    serifs would work on the \"s\" at all, and I'm debating whether to remove the
    one from the \"c\".\r\n\r\nBut, y'know, it's all an experiment until it goes to
    market, if it ever does. I wanted to do a monoweight font with long serifs and
    this is how it's coming out.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-27 06:37:39'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/palormak4-sample2_5248.png]\r\n\r\nI
    made some pretty significant revisions in this version, most notably in totally
    redesigning most of the numerals and the \"g\" again. Tell me if you can spot
    the rest of the changes. Vector PDF up at the top again. I know the space glyphs
    got too wide somehow this time around. That, I will fix."
  created: '2006-10-03 12:48:35'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "So, what do I need to do now? I'm experimenting with serifs on the \"s\"
    and \"S\", but I don't really like them.\r\nDo I need to put a right hand serif
    on the \"i\"? \r\nAnything else?"
  created: '2006-10-04 21:02:49'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/palormak5-sample2b_4053.png]\r\nHere
    it is again (and in PDF #5 up top) this time with the serif'd \"S\"s, an new \"G\"
    and \"Q\", more universally applied ink traps and some other miscellaneous changes.
    I have a bigger view here of the numerals. I'm trying to keep them monospaced,
    which could explain why they're still a little wonky, but much better than what
    I started with.\r\n\r\nI'm still taking suggestions on the name, and anything
    else that might improve this."
  created: '2006-10-06 01:38:27'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Gee, is the only way to get any comments in the critique forum by whining
    that one isn't getting any comments in the critique forum?
  created: '2006-10-07 08:25:25'
- author:
    name: Pixion
  body: "cuttlefish,\r\n\r\nI don't think whining helps. Sometimes it takes a while
    before you get a reaction. Also note that a lot of the experts in this forum make
    a living as designer and they just have to balance their time. \r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I am not an expert but followed your updates lately. Here some observations.\r\n\r\n-Still
    not sure about the razor blade ink traps. They seem distracting and if they are
    an integral part of the design, you may want to consider widening whilst shortening
    them so they are visible. Right now I feel they are off-scale. Also, why are they
    not in the Y, K, 7, 9 etc. as well?\r\n\r\n-Crossbar of F and H is a bit low\r\n\r\n-nr
    1 a bit too narrow\r\n\r\n-upper part of bowls c, d and e a bit too wide (seem
    top heavy)\r\n\r\n-where arc of h becomes right vertical stem: kink\r\n\r\n-Spine
    of S is bulging up at lower right\r\n\r\n\r\nI hope you find this usefull.\r\n\r\nSebastian\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-07 17:25:02'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Sorry. I came off a little jerkey there. I'll try to suppress that.\r\n\r\nI've
    taken out the ink traps and made the number 1 wider. Still working on the other
    details, and I have to generate another image. I'll be back with that in a bit."
  created: '2006-10-08 17:22:39'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/palormak5b-sample2_6137.png]All right,
    this includes the above noted changes and a new "Q". I can''t make up my mind
    on that damn thing. Canvas 8 has been giving me a hard time in this round. I couldn''t
    figure out how to make the upper bowl of the "d" narrower without doing the same
    to the bottom but I think I found a solution for the rest. new PDF    5b.'
  created: '2006-10-09 11:03:28'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Are my umlauts too wide or something?
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "<em>Are my umlauts too wide or something?\r\n\r\n</em> Yes (on the umlauts).
      I like seeing how this is evolving. keep it up. :)\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
      Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type
      Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
    created: '2006-11-26 15:29:04'
  created: '2006-10-12 20:14:35'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Thanks Choz. I've put this one on the back burner a while to work on Agamemnon,
    but I'll have something new here before too long with this one too.
  created: '2006-11-29 09:26:19'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Seriously, though, I seeded this design with small problems to spark conversation,
    and now I'm forgetting some of them. Could anyone help me out finding them again?
  created: '2006-12-01 00:38:55'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Finally, I bring you the next stage in this font's development, but I think
    I might have done a bad thing to the G, J, O, Q, o, p, and q. At least the umlauts
    are closer together now.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/palormak7-sample2_3999.png]\r\n\r\nCharacter
    set PDF 7 up top."
  created: '2006-12-02 04:50:03'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Maybe it's time to have another stab at this, give Agamemnon a rest for a
    little bit. Any advice on proceeding?
  created: '2007-01-20 18:54:52'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: I suppose. I think the g is out of place here; I actually like the second
    one you drew. The leg of the 9 could come farther left, and I think the bottoms
    of v and w are for a different font. Then keep going wherever you feel you need
    to do something.
  created: '2007-01-21 00:34:33'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I'm finally revisiting this after a year and a half, and with what I've learned
    while working on Agamemnon, I can more easily see the flaws in this design, but
    I think it can be saved and made into a useful product. I'll still keep this far
    less ambitious, maybe expanding the character set to Adobe Latin 2 but no further
    until the market demands it, and once finished maybe developing it into a standard
    4 style family. \r\n\r\nUpdates coming sometime."
  created: '2008-09-16 17:47:14'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: 'So anyway, as to questions of what this font is useful for: at first I was
    thinking about a somewhat old-timey movie titling font, such as what might be
    used for subtitles or captions. As it has progressed, especially through this
    most recent iteration, I see it more as a potential replacement for or text-sized
    complement to the likes of Copperplate, for those times when you''re feeling locked
    into using Copperplate, but would really like to try something different. Well
    this is probably too different, but it captures enough of the same feel, and it
    actually has a lower case. '
  created: '2008-09-24 00:37:50'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/palormak15-sample2_4532.png]\r\n\r\nHere's
    the latest update: version 15, thanks to a bunch of software crashes corrupting
    the intervening iterations.\r\nI think it's greatly improved. A bunch of letters
    have been added or corrected to bring the character set up to Adobe Latin 2 plus
    some ornamental extras.\r\n\r\nThe ascenders have all been stretched a bit and
    the upper LC serifs have been unified with a clipped wedge shape with a bracketed
    underside. Circle based letters have been made more, but not perfectly, circular,
    with the overshoots brought down a notch. Many of the letters that had a butt
    stroke end now have a tapered terminal, giving the impression of bent railroad
    spikes. The eszet and Sterling are totally new. A very tiny bit of contrast has
    been added overall, just -5 ems vertical and +5 ems horizontal, maybe getting
    just a little thicker on some of the curves. The numbers have been given a bit
    of extra spacing and other improvements, but are still tabular.\r\n\r\nThe image
    sample above is just a Q&D from the same template I used for the earlier ones.
    A more complete PDF sample is coming soon."
  created: '2008-10-03 22:21:26'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "All right, the new PDF sample is now loaded into the file list up top: palormak15sample.pdf\r\n\r\nI
    completed the character set and rearranged them into somewhat logical chunks,
    though that does not in most cases have a relation to their positions in the font."
  created: '2008-10-04 00:09:57'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I think I may finally have this one down! I've already made a few tweaks from
    the last posted version, but I'd still like some feedback if there is any out
    there. The "z" is still giving me trouble, of all things, and I'm thinking of
    clipping the serifs off of the "s". Those just don't really relate to the rest
    of the font, and don't exist except for the purpose of putting serifs on the "s",
    but what would work better there?
  created: '2008-10-06 18:13:13'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Coming soon is version 17 (16 had a file error). I've stripped the serifs
    from the \"s\" leaving it with tapered terminals and it looks fine to me amongst
    the other letters. \"f\"and \"t\" now have tapered crossbars which looks odd close
    up but works in other ways. Also the \"N\" and uppercase \"\xDF\" are redesigned.
    I'm still not happy with the \"x\" and I am torn between the current \"r\" and
    a redesigned one with more curl, much like the arm of the \"k\"."
  created: '2008-10-14 18:29:30'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "I still find the apex of the V/v and W/w too visually heavy. Also, try making
    the h and n a bit narrower, since you don't have the right side of the left serif
    to balance the shape. (Oh, and see if you can taper the ear of the g a bit where
    it joins the bowl; that strikes me as a bit too heavy, too.) \r\n\r\nOverall,
    I do like the progress you've made."
  created: '2008-10-15 04:07:10'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "So...\r\n\r\nI have the stubby base serifs clipped off the v and w. To do
    the same to the corresponding caps would be a bit much. Would big ink traps do
    the job? Also, I am trying angled serifs on the Z. Would it be necessary to include
    that feature on the E, F, L, and T too? It seems to work without a global change."
  created: '2008-10-18 02:05:06'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I think on the v and w you could also clip off the right serif and taper
    it off.\r\n\r\nFor the l perhaps pull it down just a bit.  It feels a little too
    floaty.\r\n\r\nI don't think you need to worry too much about the capitals.  The
    lc z with the diagonal and the uc without it looks good.  Especially for letters
    like cC mM nN sS vV wW xX and zZ the more distinction that can be made the better,
    since the x-height is so close to the cap height.  Would would a C with a straight
    serif look like?\r\n\r\nAlso your super3 is a noticeable bit larger than the super1
    and super2.  This is really starting to mature.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una
    l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-10-18 12:37:14'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I've neglected the superior/fraction numerals. Time to revisit them.\r\n\r\nI'll
    try some of the variants you suggest (like the C with straight serif)."
  created: '2008-10-18 20:19:42'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "<cite>For the l perhaps pull it down just a bit. It feels a little too floaty.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    tapered hook base of the lc L already descends slightly. I'm afraid pulling it
    more will start looking like a weird elongated backwards j. I could go back to
    a flat serif base like on the i, but that would mean redoing all that spacing
    and kerning, which needs to be redone anyway.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-20 19:13:54'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/screenshot_0276_3662.png]\r\n\r\nI always
    seem to post an update while I'm just about to leave for something.\r\nAnyhow,
    version 17 here has a few alternates that have been suggested, along with various
    more subtle changes. Which ones should be the main selection? Your feedback, as
    always, is appreciated."
  created: '2008-11-01 21:19:08'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: You can catch a sneak peek of version 18 in action in the [[http://typophile.com/battle32|book
    cover type battle]]
  created: '2008-12-09 09:15:02'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I've been working on something here, but after leaving it idle for a couple
    months to work on other fonts I've lost track of what changes I've made. I probably
    still have a lot of work to do on spacing and kerning (for some  reason this is
    a lot harder to do on FontForge than Fontographer, even though the interface is
    similar).
  created: '2009-02-20 19:44:59'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "No votes on the alts?\r\n\r\nI've decided to make the C with the vertical
    spur the normal style, with the angled and horizontal serifs still available as
    alternates. It kind of violates the rail spike theme I had going here, but it
    goes along better with the changes I have in mind for the r."
  created: '2009-02-27 01:43:58'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: The bottom of the crossbars of "t" and "f" are different. "t" is flat, while
    "f" is bracketed in the manner the serifs of other letters are. Should these crossbars
    be unified, and which way should I go?
  created: '2009-03-01 22:23:38'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: 'The f is too splotchy, so I''d go with the t treatment. '
  created: '2009-03-01 23:25:25'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hi Jason :) Here are my observations, please feel free not to pay too much
    attention to them as I'm only a beginner too.\r\nThis is an unusual design and
    I'm not sure I understand it. To my eye, there isn't enough unity between the
    different letters. I'm not sure there is a consistent pattern to the stress, the
    serifs, and the amount of 'weirdness'. I think some of the weirder ideas are wonderful!
    Look at your curly r and k and alternative C, they're great.\r\nSome of the bits
    I don't understand...\r\nn has foot serifs only on the outside. H has all serifs.
    u has a normal serif pattern. m is somewhere in between. \r\nThe curves in geoqs
    are quite relaxed and soft, and wide. abdp are quite sharp and strong shapes.
    m and w are narrow.\r\nThe ovwx seem to be monoline, but the stress is very pronounced
    in egrs.\r\nI quite like the oddness of all these things, so I wouldn't try to
    make everything conventional, but the overall feeling is a bit complicated and
    disorienting.\r\nI think the lc diacritics could have a lot more space below.
    I don't find vwxy work very well. g and p could do with more space on the right.
    I think h and n look too wide because the inner serifs are missing and there's
    a lot of counterspace. The quotes and comma don't fit.\r\nYes, I think the t and
    f should have the same crossbar, or at least the same general shape. \r\nKeep
    going with this, it's very curious!"
  created: '2009-03-01 23:28:46'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I thought I'd pounded most of the quirks out of it by now.\r\n\r\nAt the
    beginning, there was no stress or contrast in Palormak, it was a relatively simple
    mostly monoline semi-serif. That origin is probably where the remaining quirks
    reside. Any hint of stress or contrast was added later as I learned things from
    other projects. The serifs took a new shape and the tapered terminals were introduced
    on many letters. The tapered terminals give the appearance of ductus but for different
    reasons than the usual causes. It all makes sense to my eyes and way of thinking
    about it, except where I'm still struggling, where it doesn't.\r\nThe serifs of
    \"vwxy\" are notably troublesome.\r\n\r\nAs I made various changes through the
    process, I recognized a kind of \"rail spike\" motif. It doesn't literally apply
    to every letter form, but the spike shaped directional arrows I included reinforce
    it in a way, if at least as a reminder.\r\n\r\nSignificant changes are underway,
    but you'll recognize it."
  created: '2009-03-03 00:02:29'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I realized only now that the "p" descender is too short, and my em square
    is to big and stuff and junk. The "p" and thorn though are the only ones with
    a serif on the descender. The rest all have pointy things and/or curves.
  created: '2009-03-10 19:09:05'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Now I find an actual serious problem. The serifs of the T crash with the
    lowercase short letters when I try to kern them. \r\n\r\nThe only practical solution
    appears to be to shorten the hanging serifs from the top of the T. Would that
    be wrong?"
  created: '2009-03-17 08:07:58'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "Welcome to the iterative world of type design.\r\n\r\nRemember that you're
    designing a system of signs that will work in concert. You're not just designing
    a T, but a T that will be used with other glyphs. That interaction will inform
    your design decisions."
  created: '2009-03-17 15:43:54'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I know, I know; beautiful collection of letters not collection of beautiful
    letters and all that...
  created: '2009-03-17 15:54:49'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Wow, I haven't looked at this one in a while, and it's really coming along
    well!  Later tonight I'll try an actual critique\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una
    l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2009-03-17 17:29:43'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I may have a new iteration up by then. Just have to finish this pass at kerning
    and 'll have some new samples.\r\n\r\nUnless I have yet another file error (and
    I've had a few between the last one and now), this will be version 20 coming up."
  created: '2009-03-17 17:37:38'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I need to get back on top of my current font too, I need your work ethic
    :)   I'm going to be without internet for a few days so I'll download your PDF
    and see what I can find in it in the meantime. \r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una
    l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2009-03-18 15:24:23'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/palormak22sample_3538.png]\r\nHere is
    version 22. Yup, between a file error and an experiment gone awry, I've skipped
    five versions from the last one I put up here. There are a lot of changes between
    this and 17, many of which were already discussed, and I didn't document them
    well otherwise. Taking notes is something I never developed a knack for.\r\n\r\nPDF
    of the above image on top.\r\n\r\nIf there is a more useful sample layout, please
    feel free to suggest one and I'll try to set one up, bearing in mind the only
    fully OpenType capable program I have to set it up in is TextEdit."
  created: '2009-03-18 22:45:54'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "On a technical side, this font rides... how does one put it... low in the
    em? It looks really short for whatever point size it's set at, which isn't readily
    apparent in the samples since I didn't note the sizes.\r\n\r\nIf I reduce the
    size of the em square will that fix this problem? If I do that, would I then have
    to rescale the em square back to 1000 and risk distortions due to rounding or
    is an arbitrary em square OK? Is there a different setting that would correct
    the problem?"
  created: '2009-03-20 14:47:35'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: So, continue with the spacing and kerning, yes? How is the "q" with the serif
    working? What of the newly flat-topped "vwxy"? Should those go back to the sloped
    serifs of the rest of the lowercase?
  created: '2009-03-31 06:20:01'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "You type face is pretty interesting. I'd make some comments on the design.
    I find the bar on some letters too big (compare the E with the \u0141\xD0), the
    punctuation seems too big also. The oblique bar of the \xD8 could be longer. I
    like what you've done with the l but I wonder if this kind of  terminal suited
    well on the q. To my eyes this q seems to be an a with a long tail. The \u201Ccurve\u201D
    in the r r should be less large at the junction with his stem. The connection
    of the a with the e in the \xE6 could be lower may be at the same height of the
    bar of the e. The ampersand is nice, but it would have more punch if you increase
    the lower bowl and reduce the upper one. Hoping that will be helpful.  Keep going."
  created: '2009-04-23 15:05:48'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "<cite>To my eyes this q seems to be an a with a long tail. </cite>\r\n\r\nBut
    isn't that what a \"q\" is supposed to look like? Notwithstanding that it doesn't
    look at all like the \"a\" in this font. Better this than just a reversed \"p\",
    which is why I made the \"q\" without the serif at first.\r\n\r\nThe punctuation
    is a bit bold, but I did that on purpose to prevent it washing out at text sizes.\r\n\r\n\r\nThe
    \"r\" has been exceedingly tricky to get while maintaining the rail spike paradigm
    that has evolved. I'll keep changing it til I get it right."
  created: '2009-04-24 21:54:16'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I made a try at raising the inner apex of the A by turning the legs a bit
    more vertical. Pleased with the results, though this may have made the top serif
    look wide.
  created: '2009-07-06 23:14:45'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I've let this sit for almost a year and a half? I need to get to get this
    finished. If only I'd known then what I know now. There's something seriously
    ugly going on that I hope it won't be too hard to fix.
  created: '2011-01-26 19:08:43'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Just so you all know. I'm not dead. I've continued making refinements to this
    font, and I think I'm nearing completion. Coming up with a good way to present
    it has been a bit of a struggle, as has been tackling class-based kerning. I'll
    come up with a sample of the latest iteration shortly.
  created: '2012-08-11 22:43:43'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I made a set of oldstyle figures to go along with the font. Probably hard
    to say much about it without context, but what do you think?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot
    from 2012-08-12 04:51:49_3430.png]"
  created: '2012-08-12 12:54:25'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: 4, 6, 8 and 9 nine don't really fit with the rest.
  created: '2012-08-13 17:39:56'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Here's another go at the oldstyle figures:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot
    from 2012-09-14 13:45:35_6339.png]\r\n\r\nI know, it looks like a totally different
    font now, and probably still needs some tweaks."
  created: '2012-09-14 21:48:28'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "For comparison and further critique, here are the lining tabular numerals:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot
    from 2012-09-14 21:46:58_4497.png]"
  created: '2012-09-15 05:48:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I like that \"3\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-15 05:58:46'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "Regarding the lining figures:\r\n- You need to get right all those overshoots.
    That /4/ is flying next to /3/ and /5/. /3/ looks short next to /2/.\r\n- Also,
    make the thins consistent. /8/ is almost monowidth.\r\n- The crossbar of /4/ is
    may be too low.\r\n\r\nRegarding the oldstyle figures:\r\n- I don't know if that
    /4/ works. Take the lining /4/ as a reference.\r\n- Nice /8/ and /3/!\r\n- /1/
    may work, but right now <em>all</em> serifs are too short.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-15 09:45:55'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "While I let those numbers cook a while, here are some of the currency symbols:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot
    from 2012-09-15 11:57:12_5446.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot
    from 2012-09-15 12:00:09_5589.png]"
  created: '2012-09-15 20:04:39'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "It looks like I can no longer edit my starting post nor can I upload more
    files to it.\r\nHere is a PDF of my latest revision: <a href=\"https://docs.google.com/open?id=0B19KdtxO3CcbcHJXRXhBV0FVaEE\">Palormak
    23 glyphs</a>"
  created: '2012-10-05 08:33:40'
date: '2006-09-26 04:15:32'
files:
- filename: palormak-sample.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/palormak-sample.pdf
- filename: palormak3-sample.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/palormak3-sample.pdf
- filename: palormak4-sample1.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/palormak4-sample1.pdf
- filename: palormak5-sample1.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/palormak5-sample1.pdf
- filename: palormak5b-sample1.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/palormak5b-sample1.pdf
- filename: palormak7-sample1.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/palormak7-sample1.pdf
- filename: palormak15sample.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/palormak15sample.pdf
- filename: palormak17sample.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/palormak17sample.pdf
- filename: palormak22sample.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/palormak22sample.pdf
node_type: forum
title: Palormak v.22 - It's a big bunch of revisions this time

---
