---
author:
  name: Uli
body: "In September 2006, the new FontBook 2006 edited by Eric Spiekermann and J\xFCrgen
  Siebert and others was published replacing the old FontBook 1998. After comparing
  FontBook 2006 with FontBook 1998, I doubt whether the new FontBook 2006 is a non-partisan,
  objective reference work. It seems to me that the new FontBook 2006 is a non-impartial
  sales catalog selecting fonts by party-political criteria.\r\n\r\nLet's start by
  having a look at the list of font manufacturers. In the old FontBook 1998, the list
  of manufacturers (see page 17) started with\r\n\r\n- Adobe\r\n- Berthold\r\n\r\nwhereas
  in new FontBook 2006, the list of font manufacturers (see page 54) does no longer
  contain Adobe and Berthold. This means that the editors Eric Spiekermann and J\xFCrgen
  Siebert make the FontBook users believe that e.g. Adobe does not longer exist as
  a font manufacturer.\r\n\r\nThe newer Adobe fonts Warnock (2000), Bickham Script
  (2000), Chaparral (2000), Montara (2001), Brioso (2002), Kepler (2003) and Garamond
  Premier Pro (2005) etc. have been excluded entirely from the FontBook 2006, whereas
  some older Adobe fonts, e.g. Minion, Myriad, Utopia, Tekton, are still included
  in the new FontBook 2006, but are now described as fonts made by Monotype as font
  manufacturer and not as fonts made by Adobe as font manufacturer, because Adobe
  was deleted by the editors Eric Spiekermann et al. from the list of font manufacturers
  and replaced by Monotype.\r\n\r\nIn the old FontBook 1998, on looking up Minion,
  Myriad, Utopia, Tekton etc., you will see in the yellow bar by the letter \"A\"
  (= manufacturer Adobe) that these fonts are manufactured by Adobe. In the new FontBook
  2006, on looking up Minion, Myriad, Utopia, Tekton etc., you will see that the letter
  \"A\" for Adobe in the yellow bar was deleted, and on consulting the new \"Contents\"
  section at the beginning of the book, you will see that these Adobe fonts are now
  labeled \"C\" denoting \"Monotype Imaging\", e.g.\r\n\r\nMinion = C = Monotype (see
  page 31 of FontBook 2006),\r\nUtopia = C = Monotype (see page 49),\r\nTekton = C
  = Monotype (see page 46).\r\n\r\nA few Adobe fonts are also ascribed to Linotype,
  e.g. Myriad = LH = Linotype (see page 32), but none of the Adobe fonts is ascribed
  to Adobe by the editors Eric Spiekermann et al.\r\n\r\nA final example: The old
  FontBook 1998 contained both Cronos by Adobe and Today by Scangraphic. Now in the
  new FontBook 2006, Eric Spiekermann et al. removed Adobe's Cronos, but kept Today
  of the defunct Scangraphic outfit.\r\n\r\nAlthough nobody can call me a friend of
  Adobe's (see my critical documentations about Adobe at http://www.forgers.de/forgers/#ADOBE9),
  I consider it necessary to say in favour of Adobe that it is non-objective and even
  ridiculous by Eric Spiekermann and J\xFCrgen Siebert, who edited the FontBook 2006,
  that they removed Adobe as a font manufacturer, and I also think that it is non-scholarly
  and non-impartial that Eric Spiekermann and J\xFCrgen Siebert excluded most of the
  newer fonts manufactured by Adobe, e.g. Brioso, Chaparral, Garamond Premier Pro,
  Kepler, Warnock, etc., which are important enough for the history of typefaces to
  justify their inclusion into a FontBook containing 35,000 fonts.\r\n\r\nWhereas
  the old FontBook 1998 contained all Berthold fonts, the new FontBook 2006 contains
  none of them at all. Here again, from the scholarly point of view, a non-partisan
  reference work would include these fonts, although it is understandable that Eric
  Spiekermann, who once was an employee of the defunct Berlin stock-holding company
  H. Berthold AG, is not longer willing to include the Berthold fonts into the new
  FontBook on account of the fact that he was harassed and sued by well-known Chicago
  conmen (who no longer live in Chicago).\r\n\r\nFor typeface researchers, the FontBook
  2006 is not only made incomplete by the exclusion of the historically important
  Berthold collection, but there now also arise other problems for researchers. For
  example, in the old FontBook 1998, the font FF Dax was provided with the reference
  to the font Barmen, while in the new FontBook 2006, this reference was dropped with
  the consequence that readers are intentionally withheld the information that FF
  Dax distributed by FontShop is a reworking of the old Berthold font Barmen made
  by the same designer (see http://www.forgers.de/forgers/#BARMEN).\r\n\r\nWhile the
  new FontBook 2006 annoys by the exclusion of Adobe, Berthold and other large font
  manufacturers, this new FontBook surprises by the inclusion of small font forgering
  outfits that had been excluded from the old FontBook 1998. An example is the Brendel
  font forging company. In 1997, FontShop initiated a multi-year lawsuit against the
  Brendel font forging outfit in Cologne (Germany) with the favorable result for FontShop
  that the Brendel outfit went broke. However the defunct Brendel outfit was founded
  again as the Quick Brown Fox outfit in Cologne (see http://www.qbf.de) selling again
  the Brendel forgeries which are also sold by Greenstreet, Softmaker and other font
  forging outfits (see http://www.forgers.de/forgers/#GREEN).\r\n\r\nMuch to my surprise,
  these Brendel font forgeries (e.g. Diamante, Dragon, Lingwood, Nashville, Pasadena,
  etc.) which are sold by QBF, Greenstreet and Softmaker at 0.01 Euro per font and
  which had been excluded from the old FontBook 1998 for the reasons stated above,
  have now been included into the FontBook 2006, because the Elsner + Flake outfit
  in Hamburg recently grabbed these Brendel font forgeries (presumably by exploiting
  the Greenstreet font forgery CD) and is now selling these font forgeries at 35.00
  Euro per font through FontShop. This explains why Eric Spiekermann and J\xFCrgen
  Siebert decided to include these Brendel font forgeries into the new FontBook 2006.\r\n\r\nUnder
  these circumstances, it cannot be denied that the new Fontbook 2006 is a non-impartial
  sales catalog and not an objective reference work. Here a final example: In the
  old FontBook 1998, in section Slab Serif, page 9, two Candida typeface versions
  are shown, the first one labeled \"A\" = Adobe, and the second one labeled \"B\"
  = Berthold. In the new FontBook 2006, on account of the fact that Eric Spiekermann
  and J\xFCrgen Siebert no longer like Adobe and Berthold, two other Candida typeface
  versions are shown in the section Slab, page 11. The first one is the version by
  Neufville, and the second one is the version by Elsner + Flake which is selling
  the Brendel font forgeries through FontShop.\r\n\r\nUli\r\n(http://www.forgers.de)\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Eric Spiekermann and J\xFCrgen Siebert no longer like Adobe and Berthold</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    perhaps it was a cold-blooded business decision to leave them out?\r\nPerhaps
    even one made by Adobe or Berthold?"
  created: '2006-09-26 04:49:42'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: They also left out DTL or TEFF. Why? They didn't want to be part of Fontbook.
    Could it be that Adobe did something similar?
  created: '2006-09-26 08:19:04'
- author:
    name: Renko
    picture: 111443
  body: "Uli, read J\xFCrgen Sieberts answer (from 14.9.06) to RobertMichaels Posting
    in <a href=\"http://www.fontblog.de/die-zweite-grosse-fontbook-rezension\">this
    blogentry</a>. Quote (rough translation): \"We wrote to the most interesting foundries
    and asked if they wanted to be within the book or work with FSI. (...) Some denied
    (DTL, Enschede ...).\""
  created: '2006-09-26 10:15:46'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Renko,\r\nDo you want to say that J\xFCrgen Siebert wrote to Thomas Phinney
    at Adobe? What did he answer? \"Keep the old Adobe fonts Minion, Utopia etc.,
    but label them as Monotype fonts and delete Adobe as a font manufacturer\"? Is
    that what you and J\xFCrgen Siebert want to say?\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-26 16:20:26'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I suddenly lost the desire to buy it, it seems to lack some important fonts.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-09-26 22:30:24'
- author:
    name: Renko
    picture: 111443
  body: "Uli, why don't you ask <a href=\"http://www.fontblog.de\">J\xFCrgen Siebert</a>
    directly? And tell us afterward the conclusion of your discussion? Thank you."
  created: '2006-09-26 22:32:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "H\xE9ctor, there are 100,000 digital fonts.\r\nIt would be impossible to
    include them all.\r\nSo is still be a good addition to any font library, despite
    the omissions.\r\nOther hardback specimens of the digital era: Font Bureau and
    Indie Fonts (1, 2, and soon 3), and...? \r\nThe Garamond Premier specimen was
    the best thing in the TypeCon goody bag. But then, I have a softness for Strathmore,
    such beautiful colours.\r\nHouse Industries does nice specimens, but they are
    not proper specimens, as no alphabet showings.\r\nEmigre and H&FJ have beautiful
    specimens, but they are not AFAIK available in hard cover."
  created: '2006-09-26 23:58:12'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "Just a quick remark to someone who keeps complaining about other peoples\u2019
    bad research:\r\n\r\n1. My first name is spelled with a k, as in Erik, not with
    a c. It is printed properly on the cover of the FontBook. \r\n\r\n2. I have never
    been an employee of Berthold or any of its affiliates. I have no idea where you
    get that information from.\r\n\r\n3. That book is called a \u201Ccompendium\u201D
    of digital fonts. Look up what that word means.\r\n\r\nShoddy work like this disqualifies
    anybody from commenting on other peoples\u2019 work.\r\n\r\nAnd as has been said
    by others, there are many reasons why not every typeface under the sun is in the
    FontBook. It always takes two sides to make a bargain. "
  created: '2006-09-27 00:28:48'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> 1. My first name is spelled with a k, as in Erik, not with a c. It is printed
    properly on the cover of the FontBook. \r\n\r\nI intentionally wrote \"Eric\"
    instead of \"Erik\" to keep the Typophile readers happy and alert knowing that
    you as a hair-splitter would fall for that trap.\r\n\r\n> 2. I have never been
    an employee of Berthold or any of its affiliates. I have no idea where you get
    that information from.\r\n\r\nIn your own biography at the FontShop website, you
    write yourself: \"arbeitete vornehmlich f\xFCr die graphische Branche - darunter
    Berthold\", i.e. \"worked for Berthold\". So you yourself confessed that you worked
    for Berthold, didn't you?\r\n\r\n> 3. That book is called a \u201Ccompendium\u201D
    of digital fonts. Look up what that word means.\r\n\r\nIn your own preface to
    the FontBook 2006, you declare that this compendium \"is a truly unique type encyclopedia\"
    (see page 6). So you yourself explained what the word \"compendium\" means for
    you, didn't you?\r\n\r\n> Shoddy work like this disqualifies anybody from commenting
    on other peoples\u2019 work.\r\n\r\nDo you mean by \"shoody work\" your own FontBook
    2006?\r\n\r\n> And as has been said by others, there are many reasons why not
    every typeface under the sun is in the FontBook. It always takes two sides to
    make a bargain.\r\n\r\nI did not say that a one-volume book can contain \"every
    typeface under the sun\".\r\n\r\nThe crucial point is that you write in your own
    preface: \"The editors emphasise their desire to present a work of reference rather
    than a sales catalogue\" (see page 7). But your FontBook 2006 is not a work of
    reference, it is a sales catalogue:\r\n\r\n- In a \"work of reference\", in a
    \"truly unique type encyclopedia\", a font manufacturer (e.g. Adobe) and his fonts
    (e.g. Adobe Garamond Premier Pro) are included by objective criteria.\r\n\r\n-
    In a \"sales catalogue\", a font manufacturer and his fonts are included, if you
    can \"make a bargain\" (your own words) with the font manufacturer.\r\n\r\nSince
    the font manufacturer Adobe did not \"make a bargain\" with you, this font manufacturer
    was excluded from the FontBook, and since you could \"make a bargain\" concerning
    the Brendel font forgeries , they were included by you. \"Bargain\" may be okay
    for a \"sales catalogue\", but \"bargain\" is definitely not okay for \"a work
    of reference\", for \"a truly unique type encyclopedia\".\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-27 08:06:14'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>\u201Cworked for Berthold\u201D</em>\r\nI work for clients, that\u2019s
    how i make a living. That doesn\u2019t mean they employ me. I designed literature,
    advertising, exhibitions and specimens for Berthold from the early 80s until their
    demise and they paid my fees for that work. You should perhaps sometimes think
    about what you read and not simply repeat the words like a parrot. \r\n\r\nAnd
    only one word about the book: we can only print fonts that we have, as we do not
    steal data, nor scan specimens in from other books. If suppliers won\u2019t let
    FSI have that data \u2013 for whatever reason \u2013 we cannot show it. Blame
    the foundries, not the publishers. With 35,000 showings, FontBook is still a compendium.
    It doesn\u2019t claim anywhere to be exhaustive, complete or the only reference
    book. We measure ourselves by our deeds, not by someone else\u2019s words.\r\n\r\nDon\u2019t
    you have a day job or do you spend all your time complaining about other people?"
  created: '2006-09-27 08:58:52'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "Of course, a book like the fontbook just can't be complete, for various reasons,
    and stands a good chance to be outdated or even more inclomplete the day it leaves
    the press. nonetheless, i truly respect people who undertake such a challenge
    and the effort they put into it, esp. as they must be aware of the factors mentioned
    above.\r\nAnd let's not forget, FSI is a company dealing with fonts, not an independent
    book publisher, and of course they won't include fonts they don't carry. Of course
    it is sad not to have fonts of Berthold, TEFF, DTL, etc. included, but if you
    have a bit of experience in the business, you know they are out there and where
    to get these if you want or must.\r\nIt is great to have a book like FB around,
    esp. in times where dozens of new fonts seem to be released every day."
  created: '2006-09-27 09:17:39'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" I doubt whether the new FontBook 2006 is a non-partisan, objective reference
    work\"\r\nAn interesting point of view. Now, to get the thing before all the publicity
    makes it a seller's market again. . . ;)\r\n\r\nMost font books are non-fiction,
    reference, catalog, print samples, at least. They are also collectables, status
    symbols, beautiful objects, tools of a trade, and many more things. The publishers,
    for the most part, gather what they Know they are going to have for sale, organize
    it for easy finding, price items for easy buying and try to print, price and publish
    the book in a mutually cost beneficial form for easy access, (non-fiction, reference,
    catalog, print sample). \r\n\r\nAs such, I doubt that the energy, time or planning
    for non-partisanship could have that much of an effect at the editorial level,
    the decisions having been made in font licensing. Besides, if you miss Adobe's
    or Berthold's or Font Bureau's whole library, well get their books, specimens,
    urls, and make a bigger boooook :) "
  created: '2006-09-27 16:35:16'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> I work for clients, that\u2019s how i make a living. That doesn\u2019t
    mean they employ me.\r\n\r\nI say that you deleted Berthold and ascribed Adobe
    fonts to Monotype, and you start a distracting discussion about the distinction
    between \"to work for\" and \"to be employed by\".\r\n\r\nThe \"Contents\" section
    (pages 1-53) abounds in false ascriptions of fonts, such as the false ascription
    of all Adobe fonts to Monotype. It seems that these false ascriptions were part
    of the \"bargain\"."
  created: '2006-09-27 16:41:16'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"Don\u2019t you have a day job or do you spend all your time complaining
    about other people?\"\r\n\r\nI've been wondering this too. \r\n\r\nUli, perhaps
    your new calling is to make a complete, objective, comprehensive, non-commercial,
    exhaustive font directory, and update it every year.  "
  created: '2006-09-27 16:42:15'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "<dl><dt></dt><dd>Spiekermann: My first name is spelled with a k, as in Erik,
    not with a c. It is printed properly on the cover of the FontBook.\r\n\r\nStiehl:
    I intentionally wrote \u201CEric\u201D instead of \u201CErik\u201D to keep the
    Typophile readers happy and alert knowing that you as a hair-splitter would fall
    for that trap.</dd></dl>\r\n\r\nThis illustrates beautifully how Uli works. It's
    not the first time he's used such techniques on Typophile. There may be a few
    legitimate questions in his diatribe but I haven't answered them here because
    I don't respond to <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_troll\">forum
    trolls</a> as a personal policy. \r\n\r\n<dl><dt></dt><dd>For many people, the
    characterising feature of trolling is the perception of intent to disrupt a community
    in some way. Inflammatory, sarcastic, disruptive or humorous content is posted,
    meant to draw other users into engaging the troll in a fruitless confrontation.
    The greater the reaction from the community the more likely the user is to troll
    again, as the person develops beliefs that certain actions achieve his/her goal
    to cause chaos. This gives rise to the often repeated protocol in Internet culture:
    <strong>\"Do not feed the trolls.\"</strong></dd></dl>\r\n\r\nI will answer, to
    the best I am able, FontBook questions asked by others, in any other threads --
    or at least direct the question to those that know more than I. As for this thread,
    I'd consider it fruitless, or at least dead and rotten."
  created: '2006-09-27 17:32:39'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "One is not helping the public by refusing answers to questions asked. These
    questions may be either foolish, malevolent or embarrassing, but nonetheless they
    deserve reverence if the information they are inciting is useful to the public.\r\n\r\nCalls
    for solidarity or the community's sympathy, by disregarding and distrusting the
    posers of these questions, constitute rhetorical mischief and hence are completely
    irrelevant as regards the matter at hand.\r\n\r\nIn short: as a font buyer, a
    printer and devoted typography enthusiast, I am interested in the ways of my trade,
    and I am entitled to a rightful answer from all parties concerned."
  created: '2006-09-27 18:08:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nobody's entitled to anything except being treated decently.\r\nAnd answering
    the questions of a witch-hunter is not covered.\r\n\r\nPeople have enemies, and
    harbor enemies within themselves.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Rhythmus.be
      picture: 111885
    body: "Hrant \u2014 I do not care about the person behind these questions, neither
      about his supposed inner conflicts, nor his methods. I care about his questions
      only, in as far as they might disclose information that I consider useful for
      my business. If you tell me he's a \"witch-hunter\", that does not concern me.
      You may consider \"witch-hunters\" or \"trolls\" as your \"enemies\", not worthy
      of a decent answer, but you should not impose these personal moral judgements
      of yours onto the public's interest, by denying others a rightful answer. Morality
      simply isn't relevant for the plain factual matter that is at stake here.\r\n\r\nI
      recur that I am interested in the business tactics of the font industry, because
      as a font user and buyer I am directly involved. As a client of this industry,
      by paying for licenses that claim to give me a lawful user's right, I earned
      the right of verifying whether the goods and/or services I paid for, conform
      to what they are sold as, and/or to hear others that verified this for me.\r\n\r\nThe
      way in which similar cases were handled before within our business, is painful
      and unbecoming. If there is something like a \"Berthold Gate\" in the font industry,
      this should be dealt with appropriately, that means publicly, by reasoning and
      proof, not by irrelevant emotional outbursts, and certainly not by populist
      summary justice and peer pressure.\r\n\r\n(Don\u2019t say I'm being unfair,
      again ;-)"
    created: '2006-09-27 18:53:33'
  created: '2006-09-27 18:11:45'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "A  few <em>short, rightful answers</em>:\r\n1. Adobe fonts are distributed
    by many companies, e.g. Monotype, Linotype, Agfa. Data is always identical. Like
    you can buy a Mercedes from the plant in Stuttgart, from your local dealer, a
    dealer in another city. It's always a Mercedes and it'll look just the same on
    a picture. Nothing false about distributing identical fonts from different sources.\r\n\r\n2.
    It makes a hell of a difference to me whether i had been employed by a company
    or worked for them in a designer-client relationship. If someone who pretends
    to be diligent and detail-oriented alters my biography with one keystroke, i feel
    obliged to correct it. That has nothing to do with other issues.\r\n\r\n3. There
    are many mistakes in the FontBook, which is inevitable with that amount of data.
    Some of them are human errors: we didn\u2019t catch them or we left something
    out inadvertently. Some have to do with false data, late data or no data. There
    will be Errata pages as our readers help us collate omissions and other mistakes.
    Go to www.fontbook.com, where our corrections will be posted; some as pdf for
    download.\r\n\r\n4. As has already been pointed out: the FontBook was out of date
    the minute we closed the database. And that was months before it was printed.
    We rely on foundries, friends and collaborators to supply new materials while
    we think about the next edition. Right now, we're all tired and proud that we
    managed to collate, edit, and print 1760 pages. \r\n\r\n5. The only way to avoid
    making mistakes is not to make anything. Which obviously is what some people are
    very good at. \r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Rhythmus.be
      picture: 111885
    body: "Erik \u2014 Thank you for sustaining the public debate and for your answers.
      Thank you also, for the wonderful job you've done with the FontBook. I ordered
      my copy last week and hope to receive it soon."
    created: '2006-09-27 18:53:58'
  created: '2006-09-27 18:32:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The task is like a phone book, you can never have it right because things
    change faster than it takes to get it printed,  I would be happy to have a copy
    of FontBook with whatever flaws it has.  I know full well that it will have ommissions
    and mistakes. Goodness knows I have been guilty of the same many times. \r\nI
    just wish it were available already to the impatient rest of us who just like
    type! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-27 18:57:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Again the overly cheery beside-the-pointness...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-27 19:13:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ..as opposed to the overly world-wearyness...
  created: '2006-09-27 19:45:33'
- author:
    name: giljimenez
    picture: 109460
  body: edited.. nevermind.
  created: '2006-09-27 21:31:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Gil,\r\n\r\nWhat is \"The Archer Bus\"?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-27 21:55:50'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>If there is something like a \u201CBerthold Gate\u201D in the font industry,
    this should be dealt with appropriately, that means publicly, by reasoning and
    proof</em>\r\n\r\nI wish that could be done. But most of the people who could
    shed light on the matter \u2013 tell the facts, in other words \u2013 are either
    prevented to do so by legal constraints or by sheer fear of having legal actions
    taken against them. This has happened to a lot of us, and it has been both costly
    in time and money and nerve-racking. I for one will only talk about this in private,
    on a walk in a forest, away from cameras, microphones and other people. \r\n\r\nOur
    friend Uli may have a bit of a persecution complex, but as far as the B-gate story
    is concerned, he has so far got away with more than most of us. That\u2019s all
    i\u2019m prepared to say in public."
  children:
  - author:
      name: blank
    body: "Sorry for derailing this one, but since it's just a troll thread anyway...\r\n\r\n\"I
      wish that could be done. But most of the people who could shed light on the
      matter \u2013 tell the facts, in other words \u2013 are either prevented to
      do so by legal constraints or by sheer fear of having legal actions taken against
      them. This has happened to a lot of us, and it has been both costly in time
      and money and nerve-racking. I for one will only talk about this in private,
      on a walk in a forest, away from cameras, microphones and other people.\"\r\n\r\nThe
      fact that type experts like you are not even mentioning the subject is building
      the gate. Younger designers like myself have run into a lot of nasty stumbling
      blocks when trying to research Berthold; in no small part due to the vile treatment
      of experts\u2013not to mention fonts\u2013by the Hunts. I'm spending a good
      chunk of this week trying to read books in a language I don't know, in the Library
      of Congress, just to get through the obfuscation\u2013it's the sort of thing
      that will just drive me to work with the knockoffs, or my pirate stuff, instead."
    created: '2006-09-28 06:00:12'
  created: '2006-09-27 22:09:11'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "ChrisL, the fact that Herr Spiekermann has spoken in Typophile once more
    is a reason to rejoice :)\r\n\r\nPersonally, I think that anything that would
    help us work more efficiently and effectively with type (or not, because I often
    spend my time perusing the catalog, just because) gets my vote. If its collections
    are less conservative and more diverse, like FontBook, that's a definite plus."
  created: '2006-09-28 05:54:53'
- author:
    name: jimmyp
  body: "Well, \r\nI picked mine up in San Francisco. All I can say is I think it's
    great. Good job Erik and everyone at FSI. \r\n\r\nThe folks at FSI sf are great
    too. \r\n\r\njimmy"
  created: '2006-09-28 07:53:23'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em> in no small part due to the vile treatment of experts\u2013not to mention
    fonts\u2013by the Hunts</em>\r\n\r\nI am under a court order restraining me from
    discussing the matter. But there have been threads on Typophile, and there is
    background material on other sites, notably on the one run by the person who started
    this one. I\u2019m sure other people can point you there. I know that there is
    a search robot out there with my name on it as well as that of all the names registered
    by an impostor who falsely claims to be the successor to a certain foundry. As
    soon as I but mention any real names, I get a letter from a lawyer, Life\u2019s
    too short for this type of crap.\r\n\r\nI do not see, however, how buying from
    private sites could possibly help you clear things up. If anything, this issue
    is about legal threats and verbal violence, which are methods not normally associated
    with the business of making good type. Don\u2019t help these people by giving
    up so quickly."
  created: '2006-09-28 08:53:17'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "PS:\r\n\r\nThe knock-offs, in this case, are often more legal than the so-called
    real ones. It is a shame that I cannot talk about it, as I probably know more
    about the history than anybody else out here, having been associated in one way
    or another (except having been employed) by that foundry since 1964."
  created: '2006-09-28 08:56:33'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Hmm, so a lot of gray area does exist in the history of typeface, beyond
    simply calling it 'original' or 'knock-off', black or white.\r\n\r\nIn the end,
    it's all about the goodwill, the moral consciousness of the designer (and/or the
    company) to decide what to market and sell. The moral would also answer the question
    of what makes a revival a 'revival', and an original an 'original'.\r\n\r\nOr
    we can simply wait for that walk in the forest :)"
  created: '2006-09-28 09:55:17'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Oy...anyway, for all those interested in reading a little about the story
    I asked about it when I first started snooping around on Typophile. Here's the
    <a href=http://typophile.com/node/13573>thread</a> .\r\n\r\nErik, that walk in
    the forest sounds a bit scary. Anyone seen Miller's Crossing? Plus I'm pretty
    sure that Big Brother is watching all of us no matter where we are. :)"
  created: '2006-09-28 14:04:49'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Erik Spiekermann:\r\n\r\n> 1. Adobe fonts are distributed by many companies,
    e.g. Monotype, Linotype, Agfa. Data is always identical. Like you can buy a Mercedes
    from the plant in Stuttgart, from your local dealer, a dealer in another city.\r\n\r\nI
    think there is a fundamental misunderstanding here. The header on page 54 of FontBook
    2006 is\r\n\r\n\"Manufacturers (Hersteller)\",\r\n\r\nand this page 54 lists these
    \"manufacturers\" with respective abbreviations, e.g.\r\n\r\n\"FB = Font Bureau\".\r\n\r\nNow
    let's assume, a FontBook user interested in the font \"Agency\" by David Berlow
    on page 5 of the \"Sans\" section wants to know the \"manufacturer\" (= foundry)
    of this font. For this purpose, the user looks up the font \"Agency\" in the \"Contents\"
    section, where he - in this case, luckily - finds the equation\r\n\r\n\"Agency
    = FB\".\r\n\r\nbecause here the \"manufacturer\" of the font is correctly given.
    But this is often not the case, as has been exemplified in my first posting to
    this thread, so that the reader may read the equation\r\n\r\n\"Agency = M\".\r\n\r\nThis
    is bewildering, because \"M = Monotype\" is not the \"manufacturer\" of the font
    Agency, but only one of many dealers, sellers or distributors of this font Agency,
    or - worst case - a foundry which is neither the manufacturer nor the distributor
    of the font Agency.\r\n\r\nExactly this happens in the \"Contents\" section with
    the Adobe fonts and also with many fonts by numerous other foundries, i.e. the
    \"Contents\" section often does not state the true \"manufacturer\", but instead
    a distributor or another company, which is not the true \"manufacturer\" (= true
    foundry).\r\n \r\nThe confusion of the FontBook readers could be remedied by renaming
    the header on page 54 from \"Manufacturer\" to \"Dealer\", but many users want
    to know the \"manufacturer\". And the true \"manufacturer\", e.g. Font Bureau,
    certainly also prefers to see the true manufacturer equation \"Agency = FB\" instead
    of the wrong manufacturer equation \"Agency = M\"."
  created: '2006-09-28 15:00:27'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Uli, \r\n\r\nYou are discussing errors in the FontBook. This kind of thing
    is normal in publishing and it is expected that users will assist the publisher
    in correcting errors for future versions (as Erik has stated above). Can you simply
    note mistakes without concocting a conspiracy? \r\n\r\nIn the final analysis,
    nobody but you expects FontBook to be an objective reference work. It doesn't
    change the fact that it is a monumental work of information design and that very
    few foundries, much less independent parties, have undertaken to present so much
    information in such a compact and intelligent format. \r\n\r\nAgain I suggest:
    Since you seem deeply concerned with authenticity, objectivity, factual accuracy
    and full disclosure, why don't you produce your own objective, complete reference
    to all available digital fonts? The answer to this question is vital...."
  created: '2006-09-28 16:32:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I contacted Fontshop in San Francisco to get a copy.  They told me they wouldn't
    be available until November.  How is it that many seem to have a copy already?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: jimmyp
    body: "Hi Chris,\r\n\r\nYou can get the book from San Francisco. I think you pay
      a few dollars more to cover the fact that they were quick-shipped from Germany.
      \r\n\r\nJimmy"
    created: '2006-09-28 18:03:42'
  created: '2006-09-28 16:37:52'
- author:
    name: Jacob
    picture: 111771
  body: "Uli\r\n\r\nThe FontBook team have probably received their \"Adobe\" fonts
    from Monotype - that's why they are marked as \"Monotype\" fonts. Monotype is
    the FontBook source of these \"standard\" fonts. They could have been supplied
    by Adobe, they could have been supplied by Linotype...\r\n\r\nNote that most of
    the fonts available through Adobe are originally made by Monotype, Linotype and
    ITC, usually crosslicenced - for distribution purposes - between them.\r\n\r\nSo
    e.g. Frutiger - originally from Linotype - is often referred to as an \"Adobe\"
    font - even when it is distributed through Monotype.\r\nNot too difficult, is
    it?\r\n;-)\r\n\r\nJacob"
  created: '2006-09-28 16:58:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> It is a shame that I cannot talk about it\r\n\r\nErik, publish it anonymously
    on a server in a country where legal\r\nthreats are moot. Do we have any willing
    Cuban members here?  :-)\r\nSeriously, somebody living in the right place please
    contact\r\nErik privately.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Uli
    body: "> Erik, publish it anonymously on a server\r\n> in a country where legal
      threats are moot.\r\n\r\nHrant:\r\n\r\nA non-disclosure agreement has nothing
      to do\r\nwith the country, where disclosure takes place.\r\nSo neither Cuba
      nor any similar country will do.\r\n\r\nUli"
    created: '2006-09-28 17:50:56'
  created: '2006-09-28 17:34:36'
- author:
    name: Kon
  body: 'And why is it so important to include the company name? The designer''s name
    is better and enough. '
  children:
  - author:
      name: franzheidl
    body: "<cite>And why is it so important to include the company name? The designer\u2019s
      name is better and enough.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, it's not. Just compare the different
      manufacturer's versions of say Garamond, Futura, Walbaum or any other classic
      face and you'll see why."
    created: '2006-09-28 19:29:57'
  created: '2006-09-28 17:48:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Uli, think: An anonymous online article goes up hosted on a server in Cuba.
    What the f**k can any US company do about it?! Just don't host it in Guantanamo.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-28 17:53:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Jimmy!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-28 18:14:15'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">You can get the book from San Francisco. \r\n\r\nLooks like it's listed
    at fontshop.de - but not at Amazon (including Amazon.de). "
  created: '2006-09-28 19:33:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Maybe a boatload of books is sitting in San Francisco harbour awaiting customs
    and security check :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-28 19:57:34'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "sii, as fas as i know, they dont have VAT on it, and selling it without VAT
    is only possible to other companies, not to a private person or something like
    that in germany. j\xFCrgen siebert of FS explained it on his fontblog, but i dont
    know the exact explanation anymore."
  created: '2006-09-29 18:45:05'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Maybe a boatload of books is sitting in San Francisco harbour \r\n\r\nMy
    thread makes more people buy FontBook than any other promotion could have achieved
    :-)\r\n\r\nUli"
  created: '2006-09-29 18:53:49'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Chris - Seems like there is a misunderstanding. The official US release is
    November, but we <em>do</em> have a bundle of expedited copies available for purchase
    now for $120. So you <em>can</em> get a FontBook delivered in North America today.
  created: '2006-09-29 19:13:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "But Stewf, will it be autographed by you?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-29 20:11:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"My thread makes more people buy FontBook than any other promotion could
    have achieved\"\r\n\r\nUli, I think you are right about that.  Thanks for reminding
    me to buy it! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-29 20:13:11'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">sii, as fas as i know, they dont have VAT on it, and selling it without
    VAT is only possible to other companies, not to a private person or something
    like that in germany. \r\n\r\nMakes sense - the page says something (in German
    of course) about being for 'trade only' \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Sebastian Nagel
      picture: 109594
    body: "\"the page says something (in German of course) about being for \u2018trade
      only\u2019\"\r\n\r\nIt's this way: In Germany (and in other European countries
      as well), companies have to show to the end user of a product the total price
      he has to pay for it, including VAT. Companies don't have to pay VAT, so they
      are interested in the price without VAT, because that's the one they have to
      pay.\r\nFontshop wants to show just one price on their website, not two. And
      as most customers of Fontshop are companies, they choose to show the price without
      VAT. This means that they are not allowed to sell their products to private
      persons, because they don't show them the price they have to pay.\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2006-09-30 01:45:56'
  created: '2006-09-29 20:14:43'
date: '2006-09-26 03:48:50'
title: Is FontShop's new FontBook 2006 an objective reference work?

---
