---
author:
  name: typewiz
body: "I need some typeface help:\r\n\r\nI would like some suggestions on some legible,
  readable and aesthetic serif typefaces. I am prepared to spend some money on a unique,
  characteristic, yet classic font for my History paper. Could you give me some advice?
  Thanks!!\r\n\r\n~T"
comments:
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "If you are prepared to spend some money, get Adobe Garamond Pro. Or Dolly.
    Or\u2026, or\u2026, or\u2026"
  created: '2006-09-28 12:56:22'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: http://www.textism.com/textfaces/
  created: '2006-09-28 13:02:30'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: It's hard to tell exactly what you're looking  for (doesn't "unique" contradict
    "characteristic"?), but I rather like <a href="http://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&item_id=Gentium">Gentium</a>,
    which has the added benefit of being free.
  created: '2006-09-28 13:40:51'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "This is Garamond from Stempel. A very classy font, a real pearl of antiqua.
    You cannot do anything wrong with it. I agree with franzheidl \"If you are prepared
    to spend some money, get Adobe Garamond Pro.\"\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1_6678.jpg]\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de\"target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Preu\xDFisches
    Bleisatz-Magazin</a><br />\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-28 14:24:55'
- author:
    name: typewiz
  body: Thanks, guys. I have been considering faces like Sabon LT, Bembo, Meridien
    LT, Minion Pro, Photina MT, Plantin, and Adobe Garamond Pro etc. for a while now.
    I particularly like the Garamond revivals - Sabon, Adobe Garamond Pro and Stempel
    Garamond, but I'm not entirely sure which would work best. And what are the differences
    between Sabon LT and MT; Adobe Garamond Pro and Premier Pro?
  created: '2006-09-28 14:41:31'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://www.typography.net/type/enigma.htm\r\n\r\nPerhaps?\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-09-28 14:51:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Typewiz, you have mentioned a number of fonts that can work well. But I think
    you cannot make the best choice in the abstract. You need also to think about
    the page layout. \r\n\r\nWill you have large type or small? How long  will the
    line be (measure)? How much leading will you use? And what is the mood of the
    subject matter, and the mood you want to convey as an author? Also, how will the
    final product be printed? By laser; by offset?\r\n\r\nThe answers to these and
    other questions will tell you more about what face is most appropriate. Of course,
    these will interact with the faces you try:  if you have latitude you can try
    different faces with different layouts to come up with a good solution. For example,
    I think that the small x-height of Adobe Garamond Pro makes it work best at larger
    \ text sizes.  \r\n\r\nOh, if you haven't read Bringhurst, do--you will find it
    a revelation. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: typewiz
    body: "Thanks for your suggestions - I will basically have around pt. 12 size
      font, around 14 words per line. A formal, low-profile look is needed, and the
      final product would be printed by laser.\r\n\r\nT"
    created: '2006-09-28 15:45:14'
  created: '2006-09-28 14:54:22'
- author:
    name: Stefan H
    picture: 109742
  body: "These are also classy text faces, ANZIANO, DELICATO and TAROCCO. See them
    all right here;\r\nhttp://www.macrhino.com"
  created: '2006-09-28 15:13:26'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: "Here are some that may not be in the classic category...\r\n \r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.typography.com/catalog/mercurytext/index.html\">Mercury</A>\r\n\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://fontbureau.com/fonts/Whitman\">Whitman</A>\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://fontbureau.com/fonts/Miller\">Miller</A>"
  created: '2006-09-28 15:57:18'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: And what is the subject/period of your history paper? That might also be taken
    into account. (This is partly the same as William's question about mood).
  created: '2006-09-28 15:57:44'
- author:
    name: mijlee
    picture: 110896
  body: "I'm not a big fan of choosing a body copy font to reflect the 'mood' of a
    document. Personally I think it's fine to choose display type this way but body
    copy should be chosen for broader reasons. Things like audience, shelf life etc.\r\n\r\nMy
    personal favourite is still Quadraat by Fred Smeijers. It's even more useful with
    the addition of a nice sans serif.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.quadraatfont.com/"
  created: '2006-09-28 16:16:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">14 word line\r\n\r\nWith 5 letter words and spaces that is 84 characters.
    This way too long according to traditional typesetting wisdom, as explained by
    Bringhurst. The traditional agreed ideal for single column pages is about two
    a half lc alphabets, or 66 characters. \"More than 75 or 80 characters is likely
    to be too long for continuous reading.\" \r\n\r\nSetting type on letter sized
    paper, if that is what you are doing, is a typographic challenge, and to meet
    it you need to use wide type, such as Century Schoolbook, and wide margins (or
    wide left margin) with titles or notes in the margin, or use a multi-column setting.
    \r\n\r\nThe typeface is probably a lesser issue than the layout for a good result.
    \r\n\r\nAs far as mood, I do indeed think this is appropriate to consider even
    in a text face. For example, Garamond gives a more traditional and Whitman a more
    modern impression. I think this character can enhance your message.  "
  created: '2006-09-28 17:56:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "GC, what's your budget?\r\n\r\n> body copy should be chosen for broader reasons.\r\n\r\nYes,
    but including mood. Just because a text font's mood doesn't hit\r\nyou over the
    head like a display face doesn't mean we should ignore it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-28 18:07:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The word \"mood\" may not be the most descriptive way to say it.  Type can
    have a visual effect or evoke a conotation as well as a mood. All of these are
    fair game in typography but success is not guaranteed. It can be enhanced though
    by a very skilled practitioner.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-28 18:44:24'
- author:
    name: privateortheris
    picture: 111258
  body: "What software are you going to use. It is possible to get a much better than
    average history paper result in Word for instance, but you really have to push
    it around.\r\n\r\nA good typographer will make Times look good, believe it or
    not, but if your choice of column width, type size, character spacing and feed
    isn't right, it won't really matter what font you use.\r\n\r\nBembo fan myself."
  created: '2006-09-28 18:52:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Never mind the content, what about the person who marks your paper?\r\nSome
    clandestine research into their typographic taste might be useful.\r\nIf they
    have a \"bible\", the most-respected reference work (or a leading journal), or
    a work which he/she often mentions, it might be a good idea to set your work in
    the same face. "
  created: '2006-09-28 18:57:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "My kind of plan!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-28 18:58:45'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: 'Have you read this amusing article? Something like statistical evidence that
    essays in Georgia should get you higher marks than Times (and whatever you do
    stay away from sanserifs, at least from Trebuchet): http://www.aspiramedia.com/fadtastic/?p=79.'
  created: '2006-09-29 22:58:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "How about Hrant's Patria? That might be the proper mix of readability and
    zing, modern enough, yet has an international flare.  It may just get the professor's
    attention.\r\n\r\n ChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-29 23:23:47'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Consider my Top 15:\r\n\r\n1.)  Sabon Next (Linotype)\r\n2.)  Garamond Premier
    Pro (Adobe)\r\n3.)  Dolly (Underware)\r\n4.)  Musee (DStype)\r\n5.)  Tribute (Emigre)\r\n6.)
    \ TheAntiqua Sun, TheAntiqua B, TheAntiqua E (Lucasfonts)\r\n7.)  Tarocco (Mac
    Rhino)\r\n8.)  John Baskerville, or Baskerville Ten (StormType)\r\n9.)  Luminance
    (Mac Rhino)\r\n10.) Bembo Book (Monotype)\r\n11.) Scala (Martin Majoor)\r\n12.)
    Freight Family (Josh Darden, Garage Fonts)\r\n13.) Paperback (House Industries)\r\n14.)
    Grad (Mark Simonson)\r\n15.) Dante (Monotype) \r\n\r\nHonourable mention: Palatino,
    or the supposedly original one, called Paltino Nova (Linotype)\r\n\r\nI wanted
    to put the serif variant of Lisboa (Fountain) on the list, but that isn't really
    a serif in the most practical sense.\r\n\r\nIf I had to choose just one? Notwithstanding
    the particular application, Sabon Next. But I know I'll cry for Dolly. ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-30 02:53:52'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: Same for Dolly. Dolly first made me realise the existence of type. Still the
    default font for nearly everything on my PC. Works wonders  at all text sizes.
    But I've tried it with my academic friends, and some did frown on it as just a
    tiny bit too frolicsome. Maybe I shouldn't have told them the real name, and called
    it Highbrow Oldface or something.
  created: '2006-09-30 16:42:51'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Yes, of course, academics love their austere, sharp Garamonds, or heaven
    forfend, Times New Roman. There's actually a much more varied and nicer version
    of TNR, but I doubt your academic friends would be aware of it. \r\n\r\nDolly
    exudes a warmth and charm that is very inviting. Its sturdy construction also
    gives a nod to the rich, dark type of yesteryear. As far as I'm concerned, Dolly
    is worth every penny. I'm just waiting for a fully opentype version with perhaps
    a few more ligatures.\r\n\r\nThree others that deserve to be on my list but were
    left out:\r\n\r\nDorian (DTL) ---- The lowercase y and small caps are just brilliant.\r\nRenard
    (Enschede) ----- Wow.\r\nElzevir (DTL) ---- Lots of variety here. Beautiful, dark
    type."
  created: '2006-09-30 20:20:34'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.stormtype.com/typefaces-fonts-shop/families-21-jannon\">Storm's
    Jannon Text Moderne</a> is highly readable. It is distinctive without being frilly
    or silly. And it's not pricey.\r\n\r\nOpen type at stormtype.com, TT (cheaper)
    at MyFonts:\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/storm/jannon/\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Palatine
      picture: 110988
    body: Absolutely. I like it as well, but there are so many Garamonds and "garamondy"
      - if I maybe so bold to use that term - types out there. I wouldn't mind seeing
      a new detailed review/comparison, or a re-evaluation of it.
    created: '2006-10-01 01:20:15'
  created: '2006-09-30 21:41:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \u201Cgaramondy\u201D\r\n\r\nGaralde.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-01 01:23:01'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "I know, I know. ;-)\r\n\r\nhttp://cg.scs.carleton.ca/~luc/britishstandards.html"
  created: '2006-10-01 01:30:13'
- author:
    name: typewiz
  body: "Several questions: How should I cut down on the characters per line if I'm
    using Word? Or are there any better word processing/design software out there
    I should use?\r\n\r\nAnd\r\n\r\nAre there any fonts you would recommend which
    come with extended glyphs/ligatures/language functions? "
  created: '2006-10-01 17:50:43'
- author:
    name: Ivo
    picture: 128123
  body: "I prefer the <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/?fuseaction=catalog.fontpackage&searchby=manufacturer&displayfontid=FF.11120.0.0\">FF
    Angie</a> by Jean-Fran\xE7ois Porchez."
  created: '2006-10-01 18:35:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> How should I cut down on the characters per line if I\u2019m using Word\r\n\r\nIt's
    not about Word, I'm guessing that here it's about letter-size paper being too
    wide to strike a good balance between readability and economy. The usual solution
    is going to two columns.\r\n\r\nFF Angie: I've always liked it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-01 19:39:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "You can reduce characters per line by: a. using a font that sets wider, ie
    has a longer lower case alphabet at a given size; b. increasing the size of type.
    c. shortening the line. That's about it. \r\n\r\nMany reports and wide formats,
    eg instruction books, have a wide left column in which they put headings and information.
    Or, as I said you can go multi-column. Another way that looks good is to have
    two book style pages on a landscape oriented page. But as Nick said, if your audience
    is your teacher only, then you'd better do something that looks good to him or
    her--and that likely means 'normal'.   \r\n\r\nYou can't really have control of
    layout in MS Word, just forget it. You can do better even with that, by controlling
    the face, length of line, spacing and margins in a single column, as well as nice
    headings, etc. But when it comes to putting stuff in the margins, multicolumn
    etc., Word is just torture. Even MS Publisher is better, though a proper layout
    program is the only way to go in the long run."
  created: '2006-10-01 20:04:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To get from 84 down to 66 with wider or larger type will backfire.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-01 20:11:06'
- author:
    name: albrey
  body: I'm a student, and I'm wondering if there are any examples of really beautiful
    but relatively "normal" academic papers online. 8.5/11 or A4 seem so simple but
    they're so hard to make pretty or even functional with only one column of text.
  created: '2006-10-01 20:44:03'
- author:
    name: Termopolium
  body: I would say Minion is a gorgeous and very versatile typeface, which has character
    without being so strong that it "steals the show". If I had to chose just one
    serif typeface to use, Minion would be it. Dolly is wonderful but expensive and
    maybe a touch too, well, I don't know how to put it, non-academic? But beautiful.
  created: '2006-10-02 13:17:35'
- author:
    name: Datura513
    picture: 111923
  body: Clearface is my favorite Sans Serif. I use Georgia a lot too for books. But
    Clearface ahhhh drooling on keyboard.
  created: '2006-10-03 23:36:47'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Georgia for books??? ebooks?
  created: '2006-10-04 00:09:15'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: Garamond is not legible - why are people suggesting it?
  children:
  - author:
      name: Palatine
      picture: 110988
    body: Would you explain, please?
    created: '2006-10-04 03:55:20'
  created: '2006-10-04 01:23:13'
- author:
    name: Datura513
    picture: 111923
  body: no, i use georgia in printed books. :) It's nice at 10pt.
  created: '2006-10-04 03:02:52'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "That would be cool to see - can you post the tiles of 1/2 dozen or so - I'd
    love to pick up one or two for the library. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2006-10-04 03:12:11'
- author:
    name: Datura513
    picture: 111923
  body: I'm not sure what you're talking about, sorry!
  created: '2006-10-04 03:16:39'
- author:
    name: Datura513
    picture: 111923
  body: "That would be cool to see - can you post the tiles of 1/2 dozen or so - I\u2019d
    love to pick up one or two for the library.\r\nCheers, Si\r\n\r\n\r\nI didn't
    know what that post meant. Tiles of what?"
  created: '2006-10-04 04:47:16'
- author:
    name: Datura513
    picture: 111923
  body: Oh I just realized I said Clearface was a san serif oops....it's a serif.
    I'm sleeeepy.
  created: '2006-10-04 04:48:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">i use georgia in printed books.\r\n\r\n>That would be cool to see - can
    you post the tiles of 1/2 dozen or so \r\n\r\nSorry meant 'titles' - I'd like
    to see some of the printed books with Georgia as the body face. Can you post some
    of the names of the books that you designed that use Georgia so I can check them
    out.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-04 05:05:52'
- author:
    name: Datura513
    picture: 111923
  body: "Ah ha! Titles! That makes more sense. By \"books\" I meant \"manuals,\" as
    in instructor and student guides for iTi. You can't buy them. :( I'll attached
    a PDF you can look at though. It's 2 pages from 2 different iTi manuals. These
    manuals end up being around 1,000 pages and put in a huge binder.\r\n\r\nWait...how
    come I can't attach a file?? I swear I saw an \"attach file\" option before. Help!"
  created: '2006-10-04 19:24:40'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Ah, okay. Thanks for explanation. '
  created: '2006-10-04 20:01:41'
- author:
    name: privateortheris
    picture: 111258
  body: Like I said before, the font is not as important as the care taken over feed/spacing
    etc. Talk is cheap GC. Send me a sample text and I will treat it my way. I will
    post it  - and if anyone else wants a bash at it - let them do the same.
  created: '2006-10-05 00:41:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And the content is more important than the feed/spacing etc.\r\nNonetheless
    we ]have to[ mind the details of our respective domains.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-09 16:32:07'
- author:
    name: ostorey
    picture: 115478
  body: "Hi, Please could somebody email me the font: FF Angie Small Caps. Or if you
    don't have that particular font then please send FF Angie.\r\n\r\nEmail Address:
    oliver.storey@blueyonder.co.uk\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nO Storey"
  created: '2008-07-23 09:48:33'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "You can purchase it here: http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/fontfont/ff_angie_small_caps/\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-23 11:40:16'
- author:
    name: Ricky.Sam
    picture: 115480
  body: "I like Adobe Garramond Pro, but i'm kind of new.\r\nJust what ever you do;
    do <strong>not</strong> use times new roman.\r\n_____\r\n\xAE\r\n\u2122\u026F\u0250s
    \u028E\u029E\u0254\u0131\u0279"
  created: '2008-07-23 13:21:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "ostorey,\r\n\r\nDid you know it was illegal to give someone a font? It is
    like stealing.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-23 14:32:32'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: It <em>is</em> stealing. :o)
  created: '2008-07-23 15:40:57'
- author:
    name: ostorey
    picture: 115478
  body: "I realise that, but I really need that font and I am not prepared to pay
    out hundreds of dollars for it. Do you know of a free alternative or something?\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nostorey"
  created: '2008-07-24 10:03:02'
- author:
    name: ostorey
    picture: 115478
  body: and, why should i not use Times New Roman?
  created: '2008-07-24 10:05:02'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Last time I checked FF Angie SC was not \u2018hundreds of dollars\u2019 but
    rather $42. If you need it so badly, why isn\u2019t it worth anything to you?\r\nFor
    alternatives, check out <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/39592#comment-258784\">this
    list</a>. None of them is free. Why? Read about <a href=\"http://www.letterror.com/content/value/index.html\">The
    Value of Type</a>.\r\n\r\nOr read the [[FAQ Free]]."
  created: '2008-07-24 11:14:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> why should i not use Times New Roman?\r\n\r\nWell yes, you'd have to answer
    that first. We know the answer. And really, you do too, otherwise you wouldn't
    even be here.\r\n\r\nOliver, nobody can force you to buy a font, but you can certainly
    force yourself to not swipe one.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-24 14:46:43'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"but I really need that font and I am not prepared to pay out hundreds of
    dollars for it.\"\r\n\r\nSo we're exempt from paying for things if we happen not
    to have budget for them? How about this: If you can't afford it, you can't have
    it. Isn't that the way it works with other things, or are you inclined to steal
    things generally, like gasoline, books, food, housing, graphic design software?\r\n\r\nIt's
    a weak argument to say the font is hundreds of dollars when each face is around
    $42. I'm tired of people making this excuse. All it takes is a few moments to
    look around at your favorite font store to find a package that suits your budget.\r\n\r\nI
    see no reason why you shouldn't use Times New Roman. It seems to fit your budget.
    \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-24 15:52:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Why not just write it out by hand? That would certainly be way cheaper and
    not be stepping on any EULA issues?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-24 16:46:27'
- author:
    name: ostorey
    picture: 115478
  body: "Thank you all for your help. I pruchased the font and it is very good!\r\n\r\nostorey"
  created: '2008-07-25 09:03:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Awesome.\r\nThank you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-07-25 14:45:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "BRAVO! I retract my snide remark.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-07-25 15:46:09'
- author:
    name: Ivo
    picture: 128123
  body: "Great. I\u2019m glad that you liked my suggestion. It\u2019s also nice to
    hear you\u2019ve bought a licence rather than stealing one. I know, this is good
    for your karma ;)"
  created: '2008-08-21 18:36:27'
date: '2006-09-28 12:53:24'
title: Great Serif Typeface

---
