---
author:
  name: rob_luciani
  picture: 111592
body: "Hey Everybody\r\n\r\nI'm doing a school project on the retro design movement
  and since it's based on getting\r\nideas from past styles and artwork, I've come
  across a little question of my own. \r\nWhere do you draw the line when it comes
  to calling something \"retro\" and then blatenly stealing \r\nan idea from a past
  piece of work. Most notably would be the Paula Scher \"swatch\" ad in the 80's replicating
  a work done in the \r\n20's. Also and most recently the Franz Ferdinand cd cover
  taking the same image from the \"Swatch\" ad recently mentioned. \r\n\r\nWhat is
  Retro and where do you draw the line. \r\nalso if you can point me to any good reference
  material regarding\r\nthis issue, that would be sweet too!\r\n\r\nCheers, \r\nRob"
comments:
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: According to Scher, the Swatch poster was a parody of the Matter poster, not
    a rip-off. The story about the poster and the "controversy" that followed it (only
    after it started appearing in design annuals) is chronicled in Scher's book, "Make
    It Bigger." The title of her book apparently comes from something the Swatch marketing
    director said to her when she was working on the poster.
  created: '2006-10-03 03:44:55'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Hi Rob\r\n\r\nThe convention in fine art and illustration is that when you
    do a piece in a known style you sign it in such a way as to acknowledge the original
    source i.e. Peter Saville <em>after</em> Fortunato Depero, Paula Scher <em>after</em>
    Herbert Matter, Franz Ferdinand <em> after</em> Alexandr Rodchenko.\r\n\r\nFor
    reasons that are not too clear, this has never been rigourously applied to the
    'plastic arts' and entire reputations have been built on careful appropriation.
    I guess the critical thing is whether or not the new piece slavishly copies the
    existing style or merely references it.\r\n\r\nTwo (old) articles about this come
    directly to mind; 'The Age of Plunder' by Jon Savage in The Face No.33 January
    1983. and 'A Dearth of Typography' by Malcolm Garrett in an early Baseline magazine
    (the Bodoni issue I think). Historical pastiche and parody would be other aspects
    of contemporary design (and advertising) practice worth looking at here.\r\n\r\nHow
    does your instructor define 'the retro design movement'?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-03 03:57:57'
- author:
    name: jonsel
    picture: 111354
  body: "I think you are slightly confusing the idea of \"retro\" with \"homage\".
    \ Lots of things are retro, simply by using stylistic cues from previous art movements.
    \ The best retro stuff is actually very contemporary and would never have been
    produced back in the day.\r\n\r\nThe dispute here is between homage and theft.
    \ The Paula Scher case has long caused much debate as it definitely straddles
    the line.  Homage (and parody) usually depend on the audience getting the reference
    (or joke).  One could argue that Scher's true audience was Swatch, and not their
    customers, and they probably understood what she was doing.  She has even said
    that she had permission from Matter's widow to use the original artwork. This
    makes this a non-issue, in my opinion.  Once she had permission from the originator
    (or his estate), then there's no theft.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure if they still run
    this, but Print Magazine has run some columns from the encyclopaedic Steven Heller
    chronicling instances of curiously similar designs - very often magazine and book
    covers."
  created: '2006-10-03 04:35:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John Downer's <a href=\"http://www.emigre.com/Editorial.php?sect=2&id=1\">Call
    It What It Is</a> draws some fine distinctions between categories of \"derivation\",
    as related to type design.\r\n\r\n<em>When will you stop identifying with what
    defines you?</em> -- Vaneigem.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-03 04:43:24'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: See also Steven Heller and Julie Lasky's "Borrowed Design" (1993, Van Nostrand
    Reinhold).
  created: '2006-10-03 04:47:38'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Retro is the death of idealism.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-10-03 05:33:17'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "This webpage (in French) has good examples of Franz Ferdinand artwork along
    with the Rodchenko (and other) originals.\r\n\r\nhttp://laboiteaimages.hautetfort.com/archive/2005/11/index.html"
  created: '2006-10-03 11:58:39'
- author:
    name: Termopolium
  body: "The exact same poster made in the eighties would be a very different statement
    than the if it was made in the twenties, since the context has changed so much.
    In the twenties it was hyper-modern, even futuristic, while in the eighties it
    was retro-ironic. If it had been made in the same era, it would have been a ripoff,
    I mean, they're practically identical.\r\n\r\nIt's like that short story by Borges
    (\"Pierre Menard, author of the Quixote\") where somebody writes an exact copy
    of Don Quixote, word by word, but Borges argues that it's a much better book than
    the original since it was written in an era where writing a book like that meant
    something more profound.\r\n\r\nI would call this type of thing a \"pastiche\"
    or a \"homage\", and it's not like it's anything new. I mean, the idea of posing
    models just like God and Adam  in the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, shooting
    a model in a Mona Lisa pose or depicting somebody like the Uncle Sam on the \"I
    want you\" poster has been done to death. It's not like they're ripping Michelangelo
    or Leonardo off, just using their work as a part of a statement. Context changes
    the message just like medium does.\r\n\r\nAnd anyway, I've always found Scott
    Adams's statement that originality often starts out as nothing more than plagiarism
    coupled with a lack of the necessary skills to make an exact copy. In other words,
    people set out to be the new Michelangelo (or Zapf or Frutiger or whoever), and
    end up doing something much more valuable and original than that. "
  created: '2006-10-03 13:20:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "In the Scher/Matter case, Paula was using a very well known Swiss poster
    design to try to make Swatch associate with it and become well known as Swiss
    as well.  It was paying homage.  She knew that at least everyone in the design
    community would know the original and know she was spoofing it. The difference
    was intent. She did not intend to pass off Matter's work as her own and even paid
    his family to use it.\r\nRetro is going back to an old style that we may now think
    of as quaint or charming and trying to follow that style. I think retro may fail
    when it is all about the style and the quaintness and not about the current communication
    issue facing the designer and client.  The reference to that specific bygone era
    must help valiate the current communication objective to make sense. Making an
    ad for some hi tech product in art deco style would not help the communication,
    even if it were aesthetically pleasing.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-03 13:25:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...where do you draw the line.</em>\r\n\r\nI draw the line by drawing
    the line. \r\n\r\nIn the past I've traced over older types, as the basis of new
    designs, but I've moved on. I don't think tracing is necessarily plagiarism or
    theft, but there's only so much copying an artist or designer can do before losing
    their voice, and if you want to be unique, you work from scratch. That applies
    to individuals and eras; a certain amount of retro is cool, but it's unfortunate
    that the most popular typeface of the 2000s dates from the 1950s. \r\n"
  created: '2006-10-03 14:20:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There was a time when designs from older times and older technologies  needed
    to be redone in current technology to be usable. This is fine, valuable, and admirable.
    Most of this has been done by now but there are probably a few more out there
    that should be redrawn for digital use and skilled typographic design historians
    to do it. Type design that is to represent our current time is something else.
    There is no need to redraw what has been done for that purpose. We do not need
    to model our work after previous times to make it valid.  We just need to sit
    in-front of our tools of choice (be them paper or digital) and design what comes
    out of our heads instead of what already came out of our ancestors heads. We make
    marks and then make judgments about them again and again until we are either satisfied
    with the result or spent from the effort.  Doing something reflecting what already
    exists gives us a sense of familiarity and a known set of rules to make our judgments
    easier to approve of. Remember that the people we admire from the past we admire
    for their innovation, not their duplication skills. Taking a stare at a blank
    screen or piece of paper may seem off-putting at first but the challenge is a
    reward in itself.  That is not to say that whatever we do will be looked upon
    by future generations as something to emulate.  We just need to do our own designs
    today for their own sake and let the generations to come think what they will
    of it--just as we did those who came before us.\r\nSo as Nick said, \"draw the
    line\" your own line.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-03 14:55:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I should add that the work of many retro font designers is highly interpretive
    -- especially when inspired from lettering, rather than type -- precisely because
    they are drawing their own line. House Industries, Nick's Fonts, Font Diner --
    the irony is that new, unusual typefaces from those foundries are "retro" while
    genuinely old typefaces such as Helvetica (1957) or Frutiger (1968) are considered
    "modern".
  created: '2006-10-03 15:46:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I thought Frutiger was 1976?\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: Not that my memory
    can be trusted :-)"
  created: '2006-10-03 15:52:11'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I thought Frutiger was 1976?\r\n\r\nCharles de Gaulle opened in 1974 - so
    for two years passengers wandered around like lost sheep ;-)"
  created: '2006-10-03 16:07:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "1. I think the line between old and new is rather broad and fuzzy in type
    design, particularly the design of text types. Erik Spiekermann said that a text
    face can only vary about 5% from the past and still work well as a text face.
    I don't know where he got that number, but I think the basic point is valid. This
    means that almost all new types to a greater or lesser extent draw on the past.
    \r\n\r\n2. I do believe in the validity of \"Classics\" in type design and in
    every other field I can think of. That is, there are some things of great excellence
    from the past that are worth preserving and using in the present. But in the case
    of type, you can't do the equivalent of putting a copy of Shakespeare on your
    shelf, or a great 18th century table on your living room floor. Loss of old materials
    and changes in technology mean that the Classic type design has to be interpreted.
    And this means even a deliberate revival has many decisions about what to preserve
    and what to change.  And generally the older the type the more decisions that
    need to be made. Thus in interpreting the designer is creating something to some
    extent new and with the eye and hand of that designer in it. \r\n\r\nAlso there
    is an extent to which most would not want to revive in old type, such as the splotchy
    inks and uneven height to paper of early printing. And there are issues of spacing.
    So the reviver is faced with what to keep and what to change. When the design
    is closer to a particular original it is a 'revival'. When it is farther it is
    not. But where to draw the line is not easy to say. Is Electra a revival? No.
    Is Caledonia? Well, not so easy to say. \r\n\r\nI think new text face designs
    are just great, but I believe there is also a legitimate place for classics, and
    hence revivals that are deliberately reminiscent of the originals.  \r\n\r\nWe
    need new plays, but every generation also benefits from revivals of Shakespeare--presented
    live, today. "
  created: '2006-10-03 16:14:05'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'Not just Shakespeare revivals but new interpretations of the same themes,
    e.g. West Side Story. '
  created: '2006-10-03 17:37:21'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "And back to Franz Ferdinand - their cover is definitely an homage, not a
    rip-off. If you look at their other covers\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/s/ref=nb_ss_gw/102-3713412-0612115?url=search-alias%3Dpopular&field-keywords=franz+ferdinand&Go.x=0&Go.y=0&Go=Go\r\n\r\nyou'll
    see they are going for a distinctive look to their cover designs.\r\n\r\nBut musically...
    anyone else think of Frankie Goes to Hollywood?"
  created: '2006-10-03 17:39:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"so for two years passengers wandered around like lost sheep\"\r\n\r\nThey
    still do in the Dallas/Ft Worth airport--well maybe more like lost cattle :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-03 18:17:11'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">well maybe more like lost cattle :-)\r\n\r\nA good wayfinding system would
    help 'steer' them in the right direction. ;-)"
  created: '2006-10-03 18:19:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "as long as it didn't horn in on their right to wander aimlessly.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-03 18:21:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I thought Frutiger was 1976?</em>\r\n\r\nI got the date 1968 from the
    Frutiger page at Lintoype.com.\r\nThe definitive version of a work is always a
    source of debate for scholars, but I tend to think that the design is most expressive
    of when the author created it, more so than when it was published or updated.\r\n\r\n<em>Loss
    of old materials and changes in technology mean that the Classic type design has
    to be interpreted.</em>\r\n\r\n1. That's a circular argument, Bill. It only remains
    classic by being reinterpreted.\r\n\r\n2. I don't believe the \"technology change\"
    argument to be valid with phototype in the offset era, unless someone wants to
    reinterpret a Diatronic face with all the ticks and traps, before setting, or
    after with the corruption of repeated imaging (eg Blur). Helvetica Bold today
    is no different, in print display usage, than it was in 1969. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pepsi_5524.jpg]\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-03 18:44:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Not just Shakespeare revivals but new interpretations of the same themes,
    e.g. West Side Story.\r\n\r\nRight on target. The analogy to plays--especially
    realized in performance--seems to hold up pretty well!  "
  created: '2006-10-03 18:50:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"especially realized in performance\"\r\n\r\nIt depends on how you interpret
    performance. If you liken performing a play to using a type in a layout, there
    are many new performances daily. West Side Story is a great example of extension
    with a very new realization. Performing the Romeo and Juliet as originally written
    is just a performance in modern time.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-03 19:08:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">1. That\u2019s a circular argument, Bill. It only remains classic by being
    reinterpreted.\r\n\r\nNo, it's not circular. The revival of Caslon in 1844--the
    first revival--was of the actual types, though admittedly with better inks. It
    was then *recognized* as a classic. And people actually look at the old types
    as printed, and that inspires them--something like reading the original play and
    giving a new performance. The point is, they could have just done a new typeface,but
    they chose to revive one they felt was classic, using the new technology--pantographic
    punch cutting, linotype, monotype, photo, digital. \r\n\r\nBecause admiration
    for the original design inspires the revivals, my argument not circular. The revivals
    do help to keep memory of the original alive, but they don't define the classic
    status. For example, people have been dissatisfied with early digital revivals
    for example of Baskerville and Electra, because they admired the letter press
    versions. It is the admiration of the originals as classics that makes people
    revive them. \r\n\r\nFurthermore, you seem to be conceding that 'classic' is a
    valid category, whereas before--at least as I have read you--you seemed to hold
    that good old types are never to be preferred to good new modern types. The analogy
    in plays would be to say that we should only perform modern plays and never perform
    Shakespeare. To perform Shakespeare would always be a 'cop out' and an inferior
    product. But there have been in fact great revivals--both in plays and types. "
  created: '2006-10-03 19:10:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Performing the Romeo and Juliet as originally written is just a performance
    in modern time.\r\n\r\nYour qualifer 'just' seems to minimize the creative effort
    involved.  Every performance of Romeo and Juliet, even of the same text (and Shakespeare
    is usually cut) is an interpretation by the director and the actors (and the set
    and costume designers, any music, etc.) And this interpretation of Shakespeare
    is a serious creative effort, about which many books have been written. If you
    compare different films of Romeo and Juliet or of Hamlet--and these with performances
    you have seen--I think it becomes pretty obvious that it ain't so easy to do revivals,
    and some are great and some are flops. \r\n\r\nSame with type, I think. "
  created: '2006-10-03 19:23:08'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "<em>Performing the Romeo and Juliet as originally written</em>\r\n\r\nInteresting
    analogy considering Shakespeare derived most of his plays from earlier works.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-03 19:29:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Operas are often previous works, books, stories, plays, converted to the
    \"new medium\" of opera.  Then you get the film version, then the DVD :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-03 19:33:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">considering Shakespeare derived most of his plays from earlier works.\r\n\r\nAnother
    good point on the importance of the past, of tradition. Philosopher of art R.G.
    Collingwood pointed out that in the most creative historical periods artists borrowed
    freely not only from the past but also from one another: the Renaissance, Elizabethian
    England.  "
  created: '2006-10-03 19:34:41'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "\"It's hard enough to be clever, you don't have to be original.\"\r\n\u2014
    Attributed to David Bowie (singer/songwriter)"
  created: '2006-10-03 20:29:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The revival of Caslon in 1844\u2014the first revival\u2014was of the
    actual types,</em>\r\n\r\nMy understanding is that the Caslons had kept the old
    matrices (not the type) for sentimental reasons, and recast fresh type. Either
    way, it's not the kind of revival you're talking about, where a change in technology
    requires reinterpretation and redesign. In fact, Miller & Richards' Old Style
    of 1844 (Phemister's \"Franklin Old Style\") -- sort of Caslon modernized, cleaned
    up with vertical stress --prompted by the Caslon recasting, may be considered
    such, motivated by the perceived shortcomings, ie roughness, of the Caslon types
    to Victorian eyes.\r\n\r\nThis was not the first revival, as blackletter had been
    oft revived over the years, particularly finding use in newspaper mastheads since
    the 1712 English newspaper tax.\r\n\r\n<em>Because admiration for the original
    design inspires the revivals, my argument not circular. </em>\r\n\r\nA designer
    admiring something old doesn't make it a classic. You would have us believe that
    anything which is revived or kept alive is a de facto classic. Monticello, for
    instance, is old, and has long been available from Linotype, but is more curiosity
    than classic. Then there are quite a few instances of genuine classics for which
    nobody has decided new technological reinterpretatons were needed. Where is the
    digital Elzevir (French Old Style, that is, which was an early 19th century French
    face revived in the 1880s, and popular in the US from then until the 1930s, not
    the DTL version), for instance, or the digital Franklin Old Style? \r\n\r\n<em>you
    seemed to hold that good old types are never to be preferred to good new modern
    types.</em>\r\n\r\nThere's always room for a good new Caslon :-)"
  created: '2006-10-03 21:18:07'
- author:
    name: duncan
    picture: 111159
  body: "I have a question that I believe relates to this topic. If someone designed
    a typeface that used characters from an existing face -- for example letter shapes
    cut out of circles -- would that be infringing on copyrights or creating something
    new? \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cutoutExample_5218.png]\r\n\r\nWould
    or should something like that offend the original typeface designer?\r\n\r\nAnother
    case that I think would fall into the same category but I am unclear on would
    be if someone created a distressed version of an existing typeface...?\r\n\r\nDuncan"
  created: '2006-10-03 21:26:40'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Legally this would depend on the font's EULA. In the case above (Myriad?)
    the Adobe EULA says you can't modify the font to do this (their font FAQ says
    you can for private use). Same goes for distortion. Adobe won a legal victory
    over a vendor that was distorting (scaling) their fonts and reselling them.\r\n\r\nOffending
    the type designer is a separate issue - some type designers are easily offended
    (try setting one of Nick's fonts in orange) and some are not. You only know what
    would be offensive to a particular designer by asking them. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-03 21:34:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>some type designers are easily offended </em>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/condoms_6347.png]\r\nGood
    job I'm open-minded."
  created: '2006-10-03 21:44:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!!!\r\nHoly Shazolly, THAT is a scream!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-03 22:09:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Gives a whole new meaning to the type designer's call: there goes one of
    mine ;-)\r\n\r\n>A designer admiring something old doesn\u2019t make it a classic.\r\n\r\nOne
    type designer, no. But many type designers for over a hundred years, and readers
    who respond positively to it, yes. That makes it a classic. Not me or any single
    person saying so. Designers, manufacturers, and readers together have made Baskerville,
    Bodoni, Caslon, and Garamond classics.   \r\n"
  created: '2006-10-03 22:37:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yeah, that's cute, but the best condom font has to be Cocon.\r\nI forget
    which country the packages are from, but I saw the sample in the FF15 exhibit."
  created: '2006-10-03 23:39:21'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "I like to ask myself... is the person who's idea I'm using dead? And if not,
    do I think I can get away with it? =P\r\n\r\nSeriously, if I were to undertake
    anything like the Franz Ferdinand \"homage\" to Rodchenko, I'd have to ask myself
    if I were adding anything to the conversation. Or am I just benefitting from an
    aesthetic/style from another time?\r\n\r\nThanks Jonsel, for putting the context
    behind <em>retro</em> vs. <em>homage</em>.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-03 23:58:55'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">is the person who\u2019s idea I\u2019m using dead? And if not, do I think
    I can get away with it?\r\n\r\nI believe that for the US the stats are one in
    five murders remain unsolved. As most criminals are not that bright - I'd give
    your odds 50/50. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-04 01:45:55'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "On many of the given examples the original images and graphics have actually
    become icons which are used by their value in an original semantic exercise by
    the designer, I don't think most of them are actually homages.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-10-04 17:45:09'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'One thing to consider about "retro": Most of what is called "retro" would
    not be mistaken for an authentic period design. There is almost always some modern
    sensibility to it that becomes more apparent with time. Looking back at "retro"
    designs from the seventies, when they were doing what they thought was Art Deco,
    to our modern eyes it usually looks more "seventies" than anything else.'
  created: '2006-10-04 18:13:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What happens when everybody is retroing prior retros of prior retros? Somebody
    has to do something new once in a while just for a change of pace! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "dezcom:\r\n\r\n\"What happens when everybody is retroing prior retros of
      prior retros?...\"\r\n\r\nThen you are trapped in the newest retro movement,
      emulating the 1990's.\r\n\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
    created: '2006-10-05 01:56:51'
  created: '2006-10-04 20:17:00'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Gee, Chris, you mean actually be original?  The only problem with that is
    it takes a long time for people to actually figure out that it's \"worth\" \"something\"
    -- however one wants to define \"worth\" and \"something.\"\r\n\r\nDon't forget,
    when \"Star Trek\" (TOS) came out in 1966, it was pretty much a bust.  Our \"instant
    gratification\" society these days isn't even willing to give a show (even a good
    one, if any do indeed exist on American television) much of a chance.\r\n\r\n[OTOH,
    at least now there's DVD for those of us who need a fix of the older shows that
    were flashes-in-the-pan.  Now, where is my collection of Season 1 of  \"Wild Wild
    West\"?]\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-10-04 20:39:35'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "http://www.brilliantbutcancelled.com/\r\n\r\ni miss my \"<a href=\"http://www.treeofnuts.com/\">sons
    & daughters</a>\""
  created: '2006-10-04 20:54:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Linda, I guess that means I either have to design a \"Reality\" typeface
    or do a retro of Trajan :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-04 22:01:54'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: .
  created: '2006-10-04 23:29:59'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Paul, I'm a little stranged-out by a website lamenting flash-in-the-pan stuff
    that has ads for the new shows, aren't you?  ;-)\r\n\r\nChris -- Given that even
    \"Survivor\" (as the first of the recent crop of \"reality\" shows) uses a retro
    typeface, I think you better stick with a remixed Trajan! (rofl)\r\n\r\n<em>humming
    \"Everything Old is New Again\" off into the sunset....</em>"
  created: '2006-10-04 23:30:50'
- author:
    name: privateortheris
    picture: 111258
  body: "Your font is both good and original; but the part that is good is not original,
    and the part that is original is not good.\r\n\r\nWith appologies to the rather
    stuck-up Samuel Johnson."
  created: '2006-10-05 00:03:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "or just retroing 2005?\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-05 03:20:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's a lot, lot harder to do original work than it is to do revivals and
    retro, and people are not as receptive as they were 10 years ago. Just check out
    MyFonts best sellers, which are scripts, mostly retro, and mid-20th century sans
    serif faces, which I would also classify as retro. After all, in the postmodern
    era, modernism is retro.\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "Definitely much harder, with a revival, retro-inspired, rip off, homage,
      pastiche, or what ever you want to call it; you know that the previously treaded
      ground is firm and clear. There's a market acceptance before you even start.\r\n\r\nI
      think that the layperson's too-common perception of type as a functional object
      demands a constant refinement of the \"utility fonts\" which means that a constant
      portion of work goes into redoing the same thing over and over in the industry,
      as they update to new technology. This is where type is a mere tool, not an
      artistic media. It seems hardly worth contemplation, and is what sells big is
      not an indicator of the future or the present, unless you are speculating on
      a foundry's stocks.\r\n\r\nIn the music industry, vinyl was \"upgraded\" to
      tape, then CD, then to portable media files. This has caused the re-releasing
      of MANY albums, sometimes remastered, repackaged, expanded, or altered slightly.
      This has happened more at certain times, obviously, but was never an indicator
      of the direction of or trends in popular music. Even inside the trade, most
      people usually don't know or care about the details of the remastering or the
      people who did it.\r\n\r\nSo, when looking at the future of type, why do even
      the people who don't have an interest in retro's and revivals pay such close
      attention? That's history, not the here and now.\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine
      Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
    created: '2006-10-05 04:43:12'
  created: '2006-10-05 03:44:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">layperson\u2019s too-common perception of type as a functional object\r\n\r\n>This
    is where type is a mere tool, not an artistic media.\r\n\r\nType *is* a functional
    object. Its function is to convey in writing the words that the writer wants to
    convey to the reader. That this functionality comes first I have repeatedly read
    and heard is the view of many top professional type designers. \r\n\r\nArtistry
    is a dimension of type design, but should always--well almost always--meet the
    test of functioning well in its primary purpose: to be read. "
  created: '2006-10-05 18:12:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>functionality comes first</em>\r\n\r\nAnd you should be able to sit on
    a chair, but that is a pretty basic requirement.\r\nAlphabetic functionality may
    be the primary purpose, but in type that cannot happen without the artistic or
    cultural dimension <em>at the same time.</em>\r\n\r\nIn fact, the basic functionality
    of type design is so damn obvious, rather like comfort in a pair of shoes (to
    use the hhp analogy), that it is really not an issue for competent practitioners,
    only for theorists and post-facto rationalizations. The question is, what kind
    of bullshit should we use to hype our goods?\r\n\r\nWe should emphasize the artistry,
    functionality is understood.\r\n\r\nIn fact, this is what Jeremy Tankard does
    in his specimen for Wayfarer. The formal requirements of adapting a Granby kind
    of face to signage are dealt with perfunctorily (adjust x-height and horizontal
    scaling), and he then goes on to discuss the merits of the original, less standardized
    details of the early 20th century English grotesques, versus the slicker neo-grotesques
    of the Swiss school.\r\n\r\nAt one time, the Helvetic grotesque was considered
    more \"functional\", but JT opts for \"an informal rhtythm and vitality, which
    help create interesting word patterns.\" Note that he talks about interesting
    word patterns, not \"more readability\". But aren't they the same thing? -- except
    that readability is a pseudo-scientific construct, as if you could measure the
    hummability of a tune.\r\n\r\nCall it art.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-05 19:27:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If I pinned the following 2 notes on a bulleton board, which would get the
    most takers:\r\n\r\n1. A hand scrawled note in my very bad handwriting which says,
    \"Every person to bring this note to 123 main Street will get $500 cash, no questions
    asked\"\r\n\r\n2. A highway sign green printed sheet with the words typeset in
    the most legible typeface on earth saying, \"Timeshare Lecture at 123 main Street\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-05 19:41:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">except that readability is a pseudo-scientific construct\r\n\r\nNo, at least
    one aspect of readability has been well tested scientifically. James Montalbano's
    Clearview was tested in actual conditions of reading from a fast moving auto,
    and was shown to be readable 2 seconds earlier than the current Federal Highway
    face (basis for Interstate) at 60 miles an hour, if I remember rightly. Also I
    believe that they showed that medium weights with more open counters read more
    quickly than heavier weights and more closed counters, eg Helvetica Bold. \r\n\r\nAnd
    their font has been sold on the basis of readability to the federal government
    and adopted by a number of US states. \r\n\r\nI agree that both art and function
    are important. But your claim that it is not an issue except for \"theorists and
    post facto rationalizations\" doesn't hold up. Montalbano is a very practical
    guy, and he and Meeker have succeeded with it as the prime selling point.\r\n\r\nAlso
    Microsoft has made a huge investment in increasing readability on the screen,
    and commissioned faces for their Clear Type system. Whether it is an improvement
    has been debated here, but what can't be debated is that they put money into readability.
    \r\n\r\nCall it design.   "
  created: '2006-10-05 19:46:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>No, at least one aspect of readability has been well tested scientifically.</em>\r\n\r\nOK,
    there is a special case. But most reading is not a couple of words at 60 mph.
    It's bad science to extrapolate principles that work in that particular situation
    across the board. That's what is so bogus. \r\n\r\n(A world where all street signage
    has the same bare bones functionality is a boring world of non-places. It would
    be better to slow down and appreciate the individual personality of differently
    conceived typographic spaces.)\r\n\r\n<em>what can\u2019t be debated is that they
    put money into readability.</em>\r\n\r\nThey put money into type design and used
    reading speed as the criterion of value (like Clearview) to promote the designs.
    That's valid, but one-dimensional. There are so much in reading and type design
    that cannot be measured, and that's where the art is."
  created: '2006-10-05 21:41:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Clearview is a sans serif face.  Depending on how you care to extrapolate
    data, you can make a case for the readability of a sans over a serif then? This
    is the problem people can get into when they pull conclusions in a specific situation
    and generalize them to other different situations.  The point is, what is enough
    readability and what is wasted? For highway safety, go for all you can get. For
    other things, it is like cooking.  You need the proper mix of ingredients to function
    well. Readability is only one ingredient and the quantity needed varies with the
    usage.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-05 22:18:43'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "In fact, there have been a number of studies done on readability, not just
    the one of type visible at 6o mph.  \r\n\r\nAnd while the font is important, so
    are size, colour, content, and a host of other items: most, if not all, of these
    have been documented.\r\n\r\n(If I could find a hard copy of my thesis, I'd cite
    some of them, as that's part of what I did my Masters on.)\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-10-05 22:48:46'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Clearview was tested in actual conditions of reading from a fast moving
    auto, and was shown to be readable 2 seconds earlier than the current Federal
    Highway face (basis for Interstate) at 60 miles an hour</em>\r\n\r\n<em>(If I
    could find a hard copy of my thesis, I\u2019d cite some of them, as that\u2019s
    part of what I did my Masters on.)</em>\r\n\r\nI did do my thesis on this subject
    too, as a matter of fact. :) The term \"readabilty,\" does not apply here. Viewing
    signage is a completely different situation and environment than say reading a
    book. Reading as an activity usually occurs in a controlled environment. In fact,
    people don't actually \"read\" signs, they \"scan\" signs. This is a question
    of \"recognition\" not interpretation. Reading involves absorbing information,
    and often does not involve quick reaction time. How often have you seen a descriptive
    paragraph on signage\u2014ain't gonna happen.\r\n\r\nPeople absorb signage in
    bits of information. This is why concepts like \"word shape\" are so important.
    \"apple\" looks different than \"APPLE\". This is why mixed case works works better
    than all-caps in signage.\r\n\r\nThe study you speak of was not about \"readabilty,\"
    but \"legibility.\" There's a reason high contrast serif faces aren't used for
    signage, and why bold sans serif faces are not used for body copy.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-05 23:30:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, Terry, of course I am aware that the question of what is best for
    reading is a complex matter, and different designs are likely to be superior in
    one situation and inferior in another--size, distance from the words, etc. It
    is also not that well understood, in my view. \r\n\r\nI have argued on other threads
    that the distinction between [[legibility]] (ease of distinguishing one letter
    from another) and [[readability]] is valid. And the Clearview tests were basically
    for legibility of a few words. But legibility is indeed one dimension of readability.
    \r\n\r\nNick, you concede that that scientific tests were revealing in this one
    case. But to dismiss as irrelevant what they might do in the future--and you can't
    know--seems to me misguided. The fact that they haven't got that far yet is no
    reason to dismiss them--or issues of readability--as simply irrelevant considerations.
    Also I think that a certain basic level of readability is easy to achieve, but
    superb, easy, inviting readability is to me a big challenge, and many type designs
    don't achieve it.   \r\n\r\nI agree that art is a big part of design, but my point
    is that it is only one half the story. Design is *not* simply art, but rather
    art in service of a practical end. I admire art, and if you want do it, that's
    great. Paint a painting,make a sculpture, and I'll come and marvel at it. \r\n\r\nBut
    I love design. A beautiful *and* beautifully functional tea pot is just wonderful
    to look at AND to use. And so is a typeface that makes beautiful and extremely
    readable words. It enhances the experience of reading and the writer's message.
    A key part of an excellent design is its excellent suitability to its purpose.
    Design is not art or craft alone but rather both art and craft done well, together.
    \ \r\n\r\nI think to say either 'type design is art' or 'type design is craft'
    misses the most important point: to be superb design it has to be both. "
  created: '2006-10-06 00:34:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>But to dismiss as irrelevant what they might do in the future\u2014and
    you can\u2019t know\u2014seems to me misguided. </em>\r\n\r\nSure, you can isolate
    one variable, and measure it in a controlled environment with a carefully chosen
    subject group. But there are quite simply too many variables involved to EVER
    make reading anything but the softest of sciences. And of course, the target is
    always moving, as tastes change and designers create new work that modifies convention.\r\n\r\nScientists
    like to think they can come up with meaningful stuff on reading, because it appears
    deceptively quantifiable -- after all the alphabet is a relatively tidy system
    and eye movements can be scanned. But it's nowhere near that simple. \r\n\r\n<em>I
    think to say either \u2018type design is art\u2019 or \u2018type design is craft\u2019
    misses the most important point: to be superb design it has to be both</em>\r\n\r\nSo
    you've changed your mind about \"functionality comes first\"?"
  created: '2006-10-06 01:31:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">But there are quite simply too many variables involved to EVER make reading
    anything but the softest of sciences.\r\n\r\nNick, everything seems impossibly
    complicated until it is understood by science. Then what was bewildering falls
    into place. For example the growth of a human from a single cell seems much too
    complex ever to be understood. Then came DNA. Or to take a much earlier example
    the wandering paths of the planets seemed incomprehensible until Copernicus, Kepler
    and Galilo came along. \r\n\r\n>So you\u2019ve changed your mind about \u201Cfunctionality
    comes first\u201D?\r\n\r\nWell, I would modify what I said to this extent. Sometimes
    art is more important and sometimes functionality. But the ideal is to hit both
    strongly and successfully. For display type, art can be a stronger factor, more
    important than readability, whereas in text faces--and I mean for extended text
    at small sizes--functionality has to come first. "
  created: '2006-10-06 02:09:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>everything seems impossibly complicated until it is understood by science.</em>\r\n\r\nScience
    can't understand everything, especially human behavior. Your example of planetary
    paths is somewhat softened by the recent de-listing of Pluto."
  created: '2006-10-06 03:02:01'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "When I said that it is percieved as a functional object, I menat that some
    see it as only that and nothing more. Some will approach it as such, and refine
    the existing forms to finer and finer resolution in application to that end. Or,
    rather, refinements will invariable come, like verdana over arial for small text
    on low res moitors, because the functionality is truly better in that application.\r\n\r\nBut
    it is more. From the whacked out crazy type designers that might make someting
    silly, illegible or overly-characatured, comes new visions, inspirations and even
    advancements that assist the functional side.That art side is simply as real as
    the functional aspect. And more fun.\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type
    Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-06 03:16:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Science can\u2019t understand everything, especially human behavior. \r\n\r\nI
    never said that science can understand everything. There are reasons,in principle,
    why it cannot. However, any specific thing you name it potentially can gain deeper
    understanding of. \r\n\r\nAs to understanding human behavior, psychology has been
    moving slowly, but it has been moving. Lately there have been, for example, real
    insights into the chemistry of the emotions, and I have no doubt that in fifty
    years we will understand far more than we do now of emotional psychology. Also
    the cognitive psychology of reading.\r\n\r\nAre you saying that scientific research
    in psychology, including the psychology of reading, should be shut down as a waste
    of time? "
  created: '2006-10-06 03:51:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I have no doubt that in fifty years we will understand far more than
    we do now of emotional psychology.</em>\r\n\r\nI shudder to think of the uses
    big pharma will find for such knowledge, which is hubristic and delusional. Connecting
    certain behavior with chemical reactions in a person's body/brain is a shallow
    understanding of emotions, which exist in a complex social and cultural environment
    that is in a constant state of emergence. \r\n\r\nIf we know more now than we
    did fifty years ago, does that make our drugs or our typefaces any better than
    then? You wouldn't think so, to look at people's preferences for a certain 50-year
    old typeface.\r\n\r\n<em>Are you saying that scientific research in psychology,
    including the psychology of reading, should be shut down as a waste of time?</em>\r\n\r\nOf
    course not. And while they're at it, why don't they have another go at graphology
    :-)\r\n\r\nBut seriously, every week I read New Scientist, and there's always
    some article about quantum froth or, this week, retro-causality (hey, hooks up
    nicely with this thread!) -- which is about the future influencing past events,
    I mean, this stuff is wack. So what I want to hear from scientists is a theory
    of reading as a quantum phenomenon."
  created: '2006-10-06 05:13:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Connecting certain behavior with chemical reactions in a person\u2019s body/brain
    is a shallow understanding of emotions, which exist in a complex social and cultural
    environment that is in a constant state of emergence.\r\n\r\nGroan. Straw man.
    Of course that is another aspect of psychology of the emotions. I only gave one
    example. There is progress also in understanding social interaction, but that
    has been slower.  \r\n\r\n>does that make our drugs or our typefaces any better
    than then? \r\n\r\nDrugs, definitely. Typefaces, probably not :) \r\n\r\nThe best
    typefaces are not better than the best of metal faces of 1956, but the range of
    excellent faces for different expressions is greater--partly thanks to engineering
    progress: the creation of digital type.  "
  created: '2006-10-06 05:32:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: " <em>Groan. Straw man.</em>\r\n\r\nNot at all. The way science understands
    emotions and reading is the same: it can measure individual physiology, but not
    the cultural dimension."
  created: '2006-10-06 07:06:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">not the cultural dimension\r\n\r\n1. Readability I suspect is largely a
    matter of how the brain operates, not social factors.  \r\n\r\n2. For the emotional
    dimensions of type, you're forgetting about the social sciences: sociology, social
    psychology and anthropology. Their results may not be so impressive as the natural
    sciences, but they do have interesting insights. The insights on cultural trends
    and fads will apply to type also. "
  created: '2006-10-06 13:59:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "William, speaking of drugs and social factors, consider the psychiatric experiments
    with LSD in the 1950s. Researchers in western Canada had some success treating
    alcoholics by giving them a large dose, one time. However, the results were not
    duplicated in Toronto's Addiction Research Centre. The difference was that in
    Alberta the drug was administered in a cosy living room environment with supportive
    presence of the psychiatrist, whereas in Toronto they tried to isolate the effect
    of the drug by blindfolding and restraining the subject. The doses were 10 to
    100 times a typical street hit of today. Yikes.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-06 16:43:08'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Yikes indeed! How many of those in the tests are now terminally insane? '
  created: '2006-10-06 16:52:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I don't know.
  created: '2006-10-06 18:48:38'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>However, any specific thing you name it potentially can gain deeper understanding
    of.</em>\r\n\r\nHow about the existence of God? There has yet to be irrefutable
    proof concerning that subject. But alas, that's a whole 'nother can o' worms."
  created: '2006-10-06 18:56:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">any specific thing \r\n\r\nBy that I meant some observable phenomenon. In
    my view, understanding a creator God--the ultimate cause of being and of all that
    we experience--is probably beyond the capacity of scientific methods of explanation.
    \r\n\r\n[By the way you can read a longer explanation of the limits of scientific
    explanation in the introduction to my first book, 'Fields of Force'. It's out
    of print but you can get it from abebooks used or any university library. There's
    a Spanish edition also.]   "
  created: '2006-10-06 19:09:06'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Whenever the social sciense are brough up in a weak comparason, I have to
    chime in and remind people that Physics is about 4000 years old. Psychology is
    about 100. The first hundred years of physics wasn't exactly real mindbowing stuff,
    either.\r\n\r\nThere is a science to anything. Theres just more than that to type.
    Readability drops a bit at 1/1000th of a point sizes, <a href=\"http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=1292817\">nevertheless...
    </a>:) \r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-07 06:15:26'
- author:
    name: abi
    picture: 111936
  body: "hi rob,\r\n\r\nif you can get a hold of 'Looking Closer 2' (i think) there
    is a Jeffery Keedy essay that is pretty dang good called \"I like vernacular...not\"
    which might be a good read for you. It was originally published in 'Lift and Separate'
    from Cooper Union"
  created: '2006-10-09 09:40:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The Keedy article in Looking Closer 2 is called \"The Rules of Typgraphy
    According to Crackpots/Experts\"\r\nIs that the one you mean?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-09 15:47:38'
- author:
    name: abi
    picture: 111936
  body: "whoops it must be in Looking Closer (the first one). Thanks for catching
    the mistake dezcom.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-09 20:28:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yes Abi, here it is on page 101 of the first book \"I like the Vernacular\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-09 20:33:32'
- author:
    name: tiberiu
  body: Physics may exist for 4000 years, but they really need a brain <a rel="follow"
    href="http://www.meditoxofpalmbeach.com/drug-detox/">detox</a> as to bypass some
    wrong laws issued and rewrite them and discover new things at the same time.
  created: '2008-10-03 10:27:26'
date: '2006-10-03 02:47:59'
files:
- filename: herbert_matters_ski.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/herbert_matters_ski.jpg
- filename: swatch.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/swatch.jpg
- filename: franz Ferdinand.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/franz Ferdinand.jpg
node_type: forum
title: Retro = Stealing

---
