---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: "\r\nAnyone back from ATypI care to share the back-story here? By not attending
  I feel as if I missed three episodes of LOST...\r\n\r\nhttp://freefontmanifesto.blogspot.com/
  \r\n\r\nhttp://www.designwritingresearch.org/free_fonts.html \r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Looks like people are posting over <A HREF=\"http://freefontmanifesto.blogspot.com/\">there</A>,
    and not here. Which is fine, but I just found this pic over at flickr which I
    have to share... ;-)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/opto/259958941/\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si"
  created: '2006-10-04 23:44:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Si,\r\n\r\nI wish we would get some more of the scoup too.  There was one
    post earlier on Yves' blog that opened the question.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/28565\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-05 00:55:15'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: What kind of scoop do you want. Nothing is hidden. She posed the question
    and now type designers are responding. The way I took it was all hypothetical.
    It would be great to raise the public's awareness, but I think it needs to start
    way before font selection. The public must first understand composition and typography
    and then... well, then we can discuss font selection.
  created: '2006-10-05 01:02:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think the public also needs to understand the value of type.  Somehow giving
    it away does not seem to be a way to do this.\r\nA strange thing happened to me
    today--maybe not so strange.  While taking the elevator from the Metro, I ran
    in to a women I see frequently in my daily commuting.  I told her I was retiring
    from my day job this Summer and planned to design typefaces.  Her response was,
    \"What is a Typeface?\" She is an educated professional who works for the Smithsonian
    and was not kidding.\r\n\r\nWe have a lot of \"public awareness\" to do before
    font selection.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-05 01:15:29'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">What kind of scoop do you want. Nothing is hidden. \r\n\r\nIt seems to make
    a bit more sense now, but on first glance (I spotted the link on that French chap's
    blog - so context was a bit weak given my poor grasp of French) it seemed a bit
    left-field for an ATypI keynote - glad to see that this was just a footnote to
    her talk and not the whole thing. \r\n\r\nAlso shame the typophile blogs are not
    more accessible :-(\r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2006-10-05 04:46:44'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Ellen's got a good point. If people don't start giving stuff away soon, we're
    all going to grow old designing everything in Times, Georgia, Verdana, and Arial/Helvetica
    because clients will think that those fonts are \"the standard.\" A lot of US
    Federal Government agencies, along with a lot of courts, are already standardizing
    on Times; God help us all if the entire world standardizes on fonts that come
    with MS Office.\r\n\r\nAnd besides, Adobe needs to do SOMETHING with all that
    money. After all, they aren't using it to patch all the nasty bugs in their software
    in-between releases like they used to.\r\n\r\nOf course, with my luck they'll
    give us ITC Garamond and Papyrus."
  children:
  - author:
      name: aluminum
      picture: 110335
    body: My first internship in college was at 3M. EVERYTHING = Times + Helvetica.
      As young graphic design student, that was hell. ;o)
    created: '2006-10-05 14:46:16'
  created: '2006-10-05 05:30:42'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "If we use 100 hours as a average time span to create a basic font (256 character
    set), and given this manifesto is geared towards underserved markets, and given
    that creating a more complex font for these underseved markets may take upwards
    of 200 hours per font, perhaps we type designers can ask for all the graphic designs
    out there to contribute 200 hours of their time to servicing these underseved
    markets as well.\r\n\r\nIs 20-50 dollars for a basic font license that out of
    reach to these underserved markets?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: blank
    body: "\"...perhaps we type designers can ask for all the graphic designs out
      there to contribute 200 hours of their time to servicing these underseved markets
      as well.\"\r\n\r\nI understand where you're coming from, and I think it's too
      much to ask smaller foundries or individual designers to give away entire typefaces.
      But companies like Adobe and Microsoft, which make billions of dollars selling
      web-development/server software, would make life a lot better for many of the
      designers and content buying said software by releasing more fonts for free. "
    created: '2006-10-05 19:17:56'
  created: '2006-10-05 15:12:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I remember when I was in design school in the dark ages.  The type foundries
    did exactly what Ellen suggested.  One day 4 burely guys in a Caterpillar front-end
    loader came to my apartment to deliver my set of fonts.  The huge package was
    labeled to \"Underserved market person #864.\" It was 8 tons worth of California
    job cases filled with 72 point lead type.  I asked if there was a charge (before
    they got the lead out).  They said, \"No, it all comes bundled with your Haberule.\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-05 17:41:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "James, how do you spell \"greedy\"?\r\nIf you're a professional designer
    working on a Mac using Adobe CS, which is the standard, you have been bundled
    a shitload of free fonts, more than enough to cover all the basic typesetting
    requirements of your work.\r\nIf you're a professional, you can drop $1000 on
    a new tab-sized inkjet printer, an Aeron chair, a Cinema 24\" display, and a similar
    amount on 1000 fonts in Bitstream's Type Odyssey. If you're a professional, you
    presumably have some cash flow, and a library of fonts is a business expense like
    any other.\r\nBut of course, software wants to be free."
  created: '2006-10-05 19:42:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Friday night drinks at the chic club where all the young cool people go?
    $50.\r\n\r\nA typical font from MyFonts? $30.\r\n\r\nThe look on your face when
    you get a compliment on your work from a client? Priceless.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-05 19:52:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "No professional just starting out in any profession gets \"free stuff\" ,
    why should the publishing/design professional be any different.\r\n\r\nGenerations
    of designers graduated from design schools for years and got zilch handed to them
    for free.  Type is way, way cheaper now than it ever has been in history. What
    you get for free today, you perceive of lesser value tomorrow. If you want free
    type, there is a ton of it out there now.  If you want something that you don't
    see out there for free, spend a few hundred hours and design it yourself.  You
    might see some value in that $30 font then.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-05 20:05:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "The fonts that designers have to use on their own computer of often irrelevant
    online. I'm not interested in free fonts so that I can use them for free\u2013like
    you said, between OS X and CS2 I've got all the fonts I'll ever need. \r\n\r\nBut
    web users? The only fonts a designer can count on them to have are Arial, Verdana,
    Georgia, Times, and maybe Helvetica. For me, the point of having more free type
    out there, provided by companies like Microsoft or Adobe, is that they'd be doing
    a huge favor to designers, who would finally be free to use more type without
    resorting to raster images or flash tricks, or funky javascript stuff. Either
    that or they need to do us all a favor and work out embedded type\u2013something
    Adobe could have done two years ago had they kept up SVG support\u2013and clarify
    the related licensing terms. "
  created: '2006-10-06 02:29:53'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Food for thought: There are tons of people who have to use type who are not
    going to buy type. But I still have to view what they make with the default choices,
    and it gets old. Free typefaces have a chance at becoming ubiquitous by natural
    selection. Ans becoming parts of standards for compatibility, that I would balk
    at choosing proprietary fonts for. If any decent casual fonts were truly free
    back-in-the-day, would we all be forced look at Comic Sans? Astigmatic One Eye
    makes sales today, based on the recognition their free fonts garnered them; I've
    sold them to clients. Finally, is it not one of those things where, if you don't
    like the idea, you needn't participate? FOSS grows well despite MS and other major
    developers.\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-06 03:01:55'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> who would finally be free to use more type \r\n\r\n\"More\" bundled type
    is never going to meet demand. Web designers who want more should lobby for font
    embedding solutions that they can use with the fonts they pay for.  "
  children:
  - author:
      name: blank
    body: "> who would finally be free to use more type\r\n\r\n>\u201CMore\u201D bundled
      type is never going to meet demand.\r\n\r\nTouche. Maybe I'll start a charitable
      fund to get a good embedded font solution in Firefox 3.0. "
    created: '2006-10-06 03:56:24'
  created: '2006-10-06 03:14:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "James, you have a point about the web.\r\nI think that up to a point more
    bundled type would be very useful (in the absence of font embedding solutions).
    In particular, a light weight of any of the standard sans faces would brighten
    things up considerably. A display weight of Georgia would be good too."
  created: '2006-10-06 05:22:41'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "@web\r\nWait how Vista is going, wait if MS allow the Vistafonts for using
    in earlier Win OS (XP) and if so, how they manage it to install the vistafonts
    for that systems automatically, plus changing the settings of cleartype to \"on\"
    by default.\r\nThen wait if there is a possiblity including the vista fonts in
    OSX. \r\nIn the meantime there is flash, pictures, php to get some corporate design
    look. Okay, it would be nice to have a \"strictly\" Georgia Print version with
    optical sizes and such. (or is there one, maybe Miller?)\r\n\r\nI'm not really
    interested in browser-based solutions (like fontface for IE) or in css-/ javascript-solution
    downloading fonts from foundries and such... This is not working well, i promise,
    if there are no standards in use, for all user agents.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2006-10-06 11:16:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Wait how Vista is going,\r\n\r\nAlthough Web page designers are free to
    specify whichever fonts they like, I think it's going to be many years before
    the ClearType Collection fonts reach any level of saturation on user's machines.
    \r\n\r\n>Okay, it would be nice to have a \u201Cstrictly\u201D Georgia Print \r\n\r\nPlease
    drop Ascender a line, they're free to produce intermediate weights of versions
    Microsoft fonts (including Georgia and Verdana) and if enough people express interest
    I'm sure they'll get going on this.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: blank
    body: "<cite>Although Web page designers are free to specify whichever fonts they
      like, I think it\u2019s going to be many years before the ClearType Collection
      fonts reach any level of saturation on user\u2019s machines.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf
      the Vista fonts eventually migrate over to OS X (probably a pipe dream) it will
      still be nice to have more good fonts to call on.\r\n\r\nI just picked up some
      extra 40-gig hard disks from a friend who was moving, maybe this weekend I'll
      install Vista on one and start checking those fonts out. Hell, maybe I'll do
      my next design project as a web site that only uses the Vista fonts, just to
      really screw with people..."
    created: '2006-10-06 17:44:51'
  created: '2006-10-06 14:26:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">If the Vista fonts eventually migrate over to OS X (probably a pipe dream)
    it will still be nice to have more good fonts to call on.\r\n\r\nI guess for the
    Web Fonts, we had the advantage that they were hinted for bi-level rendering,
    so worked just as well on Windows 3.1 and Mac OS 7 as they did on the new cutting
    edge Windows 95 and Mac OS 8 machines. :-) \r\n\r\nSo even with a free distribtion
    program like we had for the web fonts, many users would not get a good experience
    with these fonts, and as such less Web sites would specify them.\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: blank
    body: "<cite>So even with a free distribtion program like we had for the web fonts,
      many users would not get a good experience with these fonts, and as such less
      Web sites would specify them.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm not sure that's entirely the
      case. Linux on the desktop is still in roughly the same place with was in the
      1990s (nowhere) and Apple, while growing on its own, is still losing overall
      market share. At some point in the not-too-distant future, when 75+ percent
      of the internet-connected masses are running Vista, some big corporation might
      do some great promotional site that only uses the Vista fonts, and Windows-friendly
      designers might follow. The same thing happened with Flash-for a long time nobody
      would think of doing entire web sites with Flash, but once a few rocks bands
      and movies pulled it off, all-Flash web sites became common."
    children:
    - author:
        name: aluminum
        picture: 110335
      body: "\"Apple, while growing on its own, is still losing overall market share.
        At some point in the not-too-distant future, when 75+ percent of the internet-connected
        masses are running Vista, some big corporation might do some great promotional
        site that only uses the Vista fonts\"\r\n\r\nLinux has come a long way. Give
        Ubuntu a try. It's on the cusp of picking up considerable speed in the next
        several years.\r\n\r\nTotal computer market share is completely irrelevant.
        A huge chunk of PC sales are strictly terminals in cubicle farms. Many won't
        even be hooked up to the internet at large.\r\n\r\nAs as for vista, that's
        way in the future getting 75% of the people on it. Many large corporations
        are just migrating to XP from 2k. So don't get your hopes up too much in the
        near-future."
      created: '2006-10-06 22:23:26'
    created: '2006-10-06 19:33:17'
  created: '2006-10-06 18:53:34'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Gah! When that happens I"ll move to the mountains!! ;^)
  created: '2006-10-06 19:56:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Tiff, aren't you already in the mountains? :-P\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-06 20:24:13'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I\u2019m not sure that\u2019s entirely the case. Linux on the desktop is
    still in roughly the same place with was in the 1990s (nowhere)  \r\n\r\nBlub,
    I'll fetch my violin.\r\n\r\n>and Apple, while growing on its own, is still losing
    overall market share.\r\n\r\nIt's a deliberate strategy to avoid spyware.\r\n\r\n>At
    some point in the not-too-distant future, \r\n\r\nBut for the Web fonts, adoption
    happened almost immediately - within  the space of six months to a year, many
    top-level sites were specifying Verdana. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-06 21:12:43'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>But for the Web fonts, adoption happened almost immediately - within
    the space of six months to a year, many top-level sites were specifying Verdana.</cite>\r\n\r\nMy
    argument is not concerned with the pace of font adoption, only that widespread
    adoption of new Microsoft operating systems is inevitable. And if embedded font
    technology keeps advancing at the pace it has been, I think that web designers
    may start designing with the newer Windows fonts before we finally have a good
    way of just embedding any font we want.\r\n\r\n<cite>Linux has come a long way.
    Give Ubuntu a try. It\u2019s on the cusp of picking up considerable speed in the
    next several years.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo were Red Hat, and SuSE, and Mandrake, and
    several other distros. There's always some hot new Linux distro that's going to
    make it big, and just like all the others, it doesn't happen. The same goes for
    StarOffice, AbiWord, GIMP, Inkscape, and a long list of other open-source stuff
    that was supposed to bring Stallmanism to the masses. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-07 00:34:25'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i think a better solution (and perhaps just as naieve as asking type designers
    to give fonts away for free) would be for the w3c (or some other interested organization)
    to commission typefaces that would be made available freely to whoever wanted
    to use them for whatever purpose. ideally, these would be designed as web fonts
    (of course). perhaps, the organization could organize a fund-raising opperation
    taking donations from web/graphic designers who would like to have an available
    library of fonts that could be used freely to develop websites, &c.
  created: '2006-10-07 02:30:14'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "If the W3C made typefaces:\r\n\r\n- It would take five years for designers
    to figure out how to use them without everything looking like crap, partly because
    they would remove any ability to center or align type that didn't involve manipulating
    the margins. \r\n- Every typeface would have to work equally well in print, on
    cellular devices, and on game consoles.\r\n- Every typeface would come with a
    lecture on how \"open\" it is, and then the W3C would start whinging any time
    someone tried to change it, only implement certain weights, add weights, or change
    the design at all. \r\n- There would be numerous discussions between the corporate
    backers and the W3C about the direction of the type design, none of which would
    go anywhere.\r\n- We'd only ever be able to view the fonts properly on Opera and
    Safari. The Firefox developers would keep trying to implement the fonts, and claim
    to be W3C-font-compliant, but still not be able to render 20% of them properly."
  created: '2006-10-07 03:05:40'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">i think a better solution (and perhaps just as naieve as asking type designers
    to give fonts away for free) would be for the w3c (or some other interested organization)
    to commission typefaces that would be made available freely to whoever wanted
    to use them for whatever purpose. \r\n\r\nI don't think the w3C would be the right
    organization, but this matches my personal opinion. Here's what I posted on El's
    blog... \r\n\r\n\"With few exceptions* the successful free fonts have had corporate,
    governmental or other organizational backers that have bankrolled their production.
    This is true for SBL Hebrew, Euphemia UCAS, Vera, Verdana, Georgia, Cyberbit and
    pretty much every other useful free font you can mention. Time and time again
    it\u2019s been proven that paying professional type designers for their time and
    effort is the only way to produce professional results, that the amateurs can\u2019t
    match. So rather than calling on type designers and foundries to donate typefaces,
    perhaps it would be better to call on corporations and governments to pool their
    donations into a central fund that would finance the production of high quality
    fonts for the public domain?\"\r\n\r\nIf a type designer wants to make a free
    font, that's their choice. But my personal opinion is that if you want good results
    you should be prepared to put up some cash or other incentives.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-07 03:12:41'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: ^ Hmm, you got a point...
  created: '2006-10-07 04:41:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Time and time again it\u2019s been proven that paying professional
    type designers for their time and effort is the only way to produce professional
    results, that the amateurs can\u2019t match.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd that's another
    reason I'd rather see companies like Microsoft and Adobe, which may have some
    business interest in doing so, release a few good new families. It worked out
    very well with Verdana and Georgia-far better than it has with just about all
    the other free fonts out there, most of which are almost never used by anyone,
    for good reason.\r\n\r\nSomething else I've been thinking about, regarding the
    possibility of Lupton inspiring a whole lot of designers to release more free
    fonts, is that even if it does happen, theres no good way to deal with distribution
    of the fonts for use on the web. Would users really want to deal with a few more
    big families, a few dozens small ones, and hundreds of display faces just to be
    able to use the internet and see the fonts that are available out there? This
    one leads me back to wishing that either Microsoft or Adobe (or better, both)
    would pick get their respective embedded font balls rolling again."
  created: '2006-10-07 04:43:20'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "A painless embedding standard, endorsed by the right folks, could be retroactively
    applied to all existing OT fonts, based on their embedding tags. The platform
    independence of OpenType also makes this viable this very moment.\r\n\r\nOf course,
    most of the good typographical stuff in CSS2 has not been implemented in any browser,
    and 2.1 was essentially a rolback from the W3C, since they couldn't get browser
    support. Things look equally grim for typography in CSS3's type stuff, assuming
    it ever gets out and gets even partially implemented.\r\n\r\nI think the only
    way anything will progress soon has to be a non-proprietary standard orchestrated
    by the Typographic trade organizations in communications with the browser developers.
    Individuals can't do it. Short of paying dues to a trade group, the next best
    bet is the FOSS community. It'll be a while that way though.\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-07 06:00:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Things look equally grim for typography in CSS3\u2019s type stuff,
    assuming it ever gets out and gets even partially implemented.</cite>\r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I hope that by the time CSS3 gets implemented, someone else will have already
    come up with a good replacement for XHTML/CSS\u2013and for that matter, the W3C.
    I also doubt that CSS2 will ever see a full implementation in Firefox or, more
    importantly, Internet Explorer, so CSS3 may be a lost cause. \r\n\r\n<cite>I think
    the only way anything will progress soon has to be a non-proprietary standard
    orchestrated by the Typographic trade organizations in communications with the
    browser developers. Individuals can\u2019t do it. Short of paying dues to a trade
    group, the next best bet is the FOSS community. It\u2019ll be a while that way
    though.</cite>\r\n\r\nAs much as I wish the F/OSS community could make it happen,
    they probably won't. I'm a reformed sysadmin/engineer, and I've spent enough time
    in the trenches with F/OSS types to know that they code stuff that's of interest
    to F/OSS programmers. They would have done it all with SVG by now if there was
    serious interest. Unless someone offers a big financial bounty for a F/OSS option,
    it won't happen. \r\n\r\nDoes anyone else just wish that Adobe would start trying
    to make Flash the new PDF for the web? With Flex to handle the backend there's
    no reason that the combined talents of Adobe and Macromedia can't do something
    a lot better than the W3C has done with XHTML/CSS. It would be great for designers,
    who would no longer have to worry about dealing with browser incompatibilities,
    not to mention not having to learn their way around the obtuse mess that is HTML/XHTML/CSS/Javascript. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "<em>As much as I wish the F/OSS community could make it happen, they probably
      won\u2019t. I\u2019m a reformed sysadmin/engineer, and I\u2019ve spent enough
      time in the trenches with F/OSS types to know that they code stuff that\u2019s
      of interest to F/OSS programmers.</em>\r\n\r\nBy 'a while', I meant FOSS could
      take decades. The incredible slowness that IM has moved from a mess of proprietary
      nightmares of incombatibility, to today, with the dawn of XMPP just barely starting
      to matter is aperfect example of even a geekier thing moving at FOSS speed.
      But hey, maybe as the /. hordes get older, they'll want EvenClearerType. Otherwise,
      I don't know who'd pay the bounty. An e-book developer?\r\n\r\nI think trade
      groups could make it happen in 4-5 years, which is still a long time in code-land.
      Are there even any important industry organizations? Do they have much motivations
      or membership?\r\n\r\n<em>Does anyone else just wish that Adobe would start
      trying to make Flash the new PDF for the web?</em>\r\n\r\nI don't know. Off
      the top of my head, I just want Adobe to not behead the vision that made Macromedia
      great. The competition between the two has been beneficial to me, and I don't
      know what will help keep Adobe, now an even older, larger corporation, taking
      risks.\r\n\r\nAlso, there is a lot that would need to be done to make flash
      light enough for little pages, and to get it as freely interlinkable/indexable
      as web pages. Also, as soon as Flash was open-specced, competitors would turn
      it's output into a rendering mess, like what we've got now. \r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine
      Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
    created: '2006-10-07 17:14:25'
  created: '2006-10-07 06:45:19'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Note: the Flash SWF format is a publicly available specification, and has
    been for years.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-10-07 20:47:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Tom, what's the current status of Flash's respect for font embedding permissions?\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si"
  created: '2006-10-07 23:40:07'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'it''s interesting to look back and see how quickly the interest in making
    free fonts fizzles out: <a href="http://typophile.com/node/16620">Time for a website
    for free font development?</a>'
  created: '2006-10-12 15:29:29'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "What the campaign needs is a charismatic front-man to extract the corporate
    and governmental contributions, and pass them on to the type designers and foundry
    people on staff. Kind of like NickNeg of the \"one laptop per child\" program
    - also need a catchy name and a gimmick. \r\n\r\nHere's my suggestion, call it
    the \"one font per language\" campaign complete with bright green KERN hoodies
    for every supporter? Maybe Bruno Steinart might be convinced to come out of retirement
    to front the organization. \r\n\r\nDon't laugh, it might just work.  "
  created: '2006-10-12 22:02:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "How about, \"No Laptop Left Behind\" program Si?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-12 22:18:55'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: I would join to get the KERN hoodies, Si :)
  created: '2006-10-13 00:18:28'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: now if they actually WERE hoodies...
  created: '2006-10-13 00:54:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">now if they actually WERE hoodies\u2026\r\n\r\nTrue, I myself have corrected
    people - Veer sells KERN \"zip-ups\" and they are blue (how sad it is that I'm
    wearing mine as I type) - but for this campaign they must be green and they must
    be hoodies - in some way being like the OLPC concepts you see on TV...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.engadget.com/2006/10/11/nickneg-signs-up-libya-for-1-2-million-2b1-laptops/
    \r\n\r\n>I would join to get the KERN hoodies, Si :)\r\n\r\nI'll hold you to that!
    ;-)\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2006-10-13 04:53:54'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>it\u2019s interesting to look back and see how quickly the interest in
    making free fonts fizzles out: Time for a website for free font development?</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    hasn't fizzled out. When I first learned of open source several years ago, the
    typographic subgenre was rather slim pickings. It is growing. And, will keep growing,
    things don't just fall out of open licenses, so the fruits will continue to be
    there. It won't be important tomorrow, but it will be important.\r\n\r\nNevertheless,I
    am not worried. Open fonts will inevitably take over the legible-functionality
    aspect of type, while the professionals will continue to cater to the specialist
    demands; topicality, branding, high art, prestige product, and pretty much everything
    else interesting today.  \r\n\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-13 05:36:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Open fonts will inevitably take over the legible-functionality aspect
    of type</em>\r\n\r\nThat doesn't make sense. Basic functionality is already catered
    to by system-bundled fonts.\r\nWithout bundling distribution, a free font will
    have to be a quite remarkable design to get any kind of \"market\" penetration.
    It worked for Ray Larabie's Neuropol, but that was part of a phenomenon when digital
    fonts were new and trendy. Or a \"gimmick\", like Gentium.\r\n\r\nIt's not enough
    just to be free, a free font has to have a Big Idea and be brilliantly designed,
    just like retail fonts, for people to want to use it. \r\n\r\nOnline font retailers
    have done free font promotions, but have those fonts proven to have legs? At least
    if I spend time creating a font and marketing it, I can make something back on
    the work, even if it doesn't sell a lot or become a classic, but imagine going
    to the same effort for nothing, with no guarantees that anyone will even warm
    to it. There's all this BS about \"giving something to the world\", but the likelihood
    the world would even want one's free offerings is extremely slim."
  created: '2006-10-13 05:59:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think \"The World\" is more interested in more basic needs like food, shelter,
    and medicine. If anyone is interested in helping, they can sell their wares of
    any kind, be they Type Books, fonts, or graphic designs, and donate the proceeds
    to help those in real need. \"[[Building Letters]]\" is a good example.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-13 13:22:13'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I think \u201CThe World\u201D is more interested in more basic needs
    like food, shelter, and medicine. If anyone is interested in helping, they can
    sell their wares of any kind, be they Type Books, fonts, or graphic designs, and
    donate the proceeds to help those in real need.</cite>\r\n\r\nLegible type is
    going to become essential to providing food, shelter, and medicine in the third
    world over the next several decades. There are currently several programs (More
    of Nick Negroponte's work IIRC)that provide solar/people powered satellite internet
    linkups in Africa which are used by villagers to access VoIP, online information
    about farming and health, and current market prices (which allow farmers to get
    the best prices for their goods). Without good type, the information isn't worth
    much. \r\n\r\nOf course this doesn't require every type designer to make a gift
    to humanity, but some good free fonts certainly won't hurt. "
  created: '2006-10-13 14:06:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\n>It hasn\u2019t fizzled out. When I first learned of open source several
    years ago, the typographic subgenre was rather slim pickings. It is growing.\r\n\r\nAs
    free fonts get spewed into the public domain they stay there, it's hard to un-public-domain
    a piece of IP (although some have tried) - so in one way it can\u2019t contract.
    But as far as serious Open Source (rather than simply free) font development goes
    there's no growth. If anything those who were interested have lost interest.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-13 16:55:40'
date: '2006-10-03 22:23:26'
title: freefontmanifesto.blogspot.com

---
