---
author:
  name: Choz Cunningham
  picture: 111714
body: "is probably a subpeona from your Ex, the newly elected District Attorney. This
  isnt that bad, but it isn't good. <em>Please read all of this, the community's insight
  is prety important to me.</em>\r\n\r\nI went through a personally dictated <a href
  = \"http://typophile.com/node/28510\">naming crisis</a> for my latest free font
  family. Despite the idea that it might be okay to use an existing name (since the
  context was so different), it finally didn't sit right with me.\r\n\r\nThen I settled
  quite happily on the name <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/28562\">!Square Engine</a>.
  Sassier, more fun, more 'techno'. Each substyle was then assigned a model number,
  050, 150, 250 and 350. Finally, I gave each a visual nickname, since #s are a little
  sterile. They were <strong>Apex, Simplex, Reflex</strong> and <strong>Latex</strong>.
  I even made humourous bio's for each font on my site. The notices embedded in the
  fonts themselves mention only !Exclamachine and !Square Engine for copyright or
  trademarks.\r\n\r\nSo, a name might look like this <strong>!Square Engine 350 Latex
  Bold\"</strong>.\r\n\r\nToday I recieved a letter from a vendor that sells a font
  named the same as one of these substyle nicknames. Politely, they informed me of
  their font's existence. They claim it was first developed in 2003, and substantially
  used in the type world. They request I pick another word. They suggest I use Google.
  I normally use myfonts for name research. This is where it gets interesting.\r\n\r\nWhen
  I picked the nicknames, I saw there were fonts by those names already (except for
  Latex, which is a whole 'nother thing), but I considered the likelyhood of confusing
  a tertiary (redundant) naming of a !Square Engine variant to be slim at best. I
  was more worried about getting wrath from the makers of \"Square 721\" or \"Allied
  Engine\".\r\n\r\nSo, I just googled the debated term, along with the word font,
  since it is so common, and found that there was a font freely available in 1994
  (no designer/vendor info), and a commercial font from Elfring Soft Fonts, re-released
  in retail packs in 1994. Then I find two links to the generic term's typographic
  definition. Further down the page, the results show the font who's creators contacted
  me.\r\n\r\nNow, really, what do I do? I voice-mailed a lawyer-friend, but I don't
  think IP is her bag. This is a free font, so my liability is low, but I was planning
  on releasing a commerical version in the next 6 months. When I find there are pages
  <a href\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/times-roman/familytree.html\">like
  this</a>, I find the whole names thing hard to take seriously. If I drop every word
  that anyone has used in any font anywhere, all I'll be able to call them is !1,
  !2 (If that!)"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Those guys would likely have good lawyers, and I'd guess that the trademark
    registration is real (many fonts claim TM when no TM has actually been registered).
    Maybe change it to "Perplex" - that should keep the lawyers at bay.
  created: '2006-10-05 22:48:06'
- author:
    name: Village
  body: "Hello all. Chester from Village here to set the record straight.\r\n\r\nI
    had indeed sent an email to Ms/Mr Cunningham concerning the weight name of \"Apex\"
    which had been assigned to a font from the \"!Square Engine\" family.\r\n\r\nFirst,
    let's clear up a couple of things from the original post.\r\n1. I wrote to Mr/Ms
    Cunningham via email to save any embarassment which might result from a public
    airing of this little matter on Typophile. \r\n2. I didn't send a letter.\r\n3.
    I prefer \"designer\" to \"vendor\" in the case of my Apex types.\r\n4. I don't
    claim that the Apex Sans type family was published in 2003, it WAS published in
    2003.\r\n5. Not all typefaces available in the universe are listed on MyFonts,
    so a search of MyFonts is far-from-complete in terms of research. If one googles
    \"Apex + typeface\", the first listing is for Apex New on the Village site. (The
    \"Apex\" font which comes up in a Google search for \"Apex + font\" is actually
    a pirate version of Aachen. The word \"font\" is an html tag which probably appears
    on 99% of all web pages, so produces many false returns. \"Apex + font\" = 774,000
    returns versus 24,500 for \"Apex + typeface\".)\r\n\r\nThe multiple-name structure
    of the \"!Square Engine\" font-naming scheme seems more than a little confusing
    to me, but who amongst us hasn't had our moments of levity? I only worry about
    the confusion that might emerge from this use of so many names, including names
    of existing typefaces. (The fact that \"Apex\" is trademarked is both beside the
    point and also at the heart of the matter.)\r\n\r\nAnyhow, I have no intention
    of making this into a big deal, if Ms/Mr Cunningham does the same. I'm not going
    to have my lawyer contact Mr/Ms Cunningham's lawyer; I simply noted, \"Hopefully
    this information will convince you to rename your 'Apex' weight.\" In my experience,
    type people are quite logical and they do the right thing if they ever find themselves
    mistakenly standing on a colleague's toes.\r\n\r\nWith very best regards to the
    Typophile community,\r\nc"
  created: '2006-10-05 22:49:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hi Chester! I hope all is well with you.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-05 23:00:52'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> find the whole names thing hard to take seriously\r\n\r\nSadly, names are
    essentially all a designer has to legally protect their work, so have to be taken
    seriously. Stepping on someone's name will often result in a nastygram from their
    lawyer, or more often than not, a more friendly email from the owner (which seems
    to be the case here).   "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "> Sadly, names are essentially all a designer has to legally protect\r\n>
      their work, so have to be taken seriously.\r\n\r\nI agree, and I do take it
      seriously. I just meant it is sincerly difficult, considering the above link,
      but I have taken time and thought to appreciate this before (as well as your
      input). I just don't think things are working right when the big foundries have
      all the good names they want regardless of who else has it, but the 'little
      guys' have to scramble for anything remotely pronouncable, then, for fear of
      [something] draw an oversized circle in the sand to protect it. Or, find a good
      name, then have no idea if they can use it.\r\n\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine
      Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
    created: '2006-10-06 00:00:04'
  created: '2006-10-05 23:33:06'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Sii -\r\nDarnit, I already had plans for that term, see below. But at least
    you recognize the value of the stress and rhyme! :)\r\n\r\nChester - \r\nThe record
    was more or less straight. 1-4: It was a letter, sent via email. You are the designer
    and, via your involvement in Village, also the vendor, though I only knew the
    latter for certain until I researched the font's history. If it was created in
    2003 (and I am not loony enough to think otherwise) and you tell me, then you
    still 'claim' it, even if it is true. :)\r\n\r\n(I am a Mr. Or, at least, a 'he'.
    Just for the record.)\r\n\r\nI appreciate you contacting me first, rather than
    here. I tried to leave it ambigous in my post, so that you would not feel coerced
    into a public debate you did not desire. It just happens that this is the place
    to find people who deal with this stuff, and I really wanted their feedback. To
    be clear, I didn't come to complain about you or your actions in any way, only
    the situation I was in. And no flock of lawyers are gathering, I just mentioned
    that I was going to talk to a friend so everyone wouldn't tell me to get a lawyer.
    We just play video games together.\r\n\r\n5. Hmm, I think you are right, \"typeface\"
    would be a much better modifier for researching in the future. Or, first that,
    then with 'font'. I will make use of that in the future, for certain.\r\n\r\nI
    brought this here, because I am of more than two minds. First, I am inclined to
    just go with the flow; you asked, my mortgage isn't riding on the issue, you were
    polite and clear. Second, you may be right, and I will appear as a hack, jerk
    or otherwise naughty person, that mixes with my novice stature to create a poor
    reputation quickly. I enjoy type design, and have no interest in being a type
    troll.\r\n\r\nAt this point the only places that I have mentioned it are here,
    my blog and @ exclamachine.com, and two of those are easy for me to edit. :)\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, while I don't want it to be a big deal either, I want to do what
    is most abstractly correct, and gain a better understanding of what I can do with
    a name. This <em>perhaps</em> means not acquiescing, if it is not the proper stance
    to take.\r\n\r\nAs I mentioned earlier the makers of the faces Simplex TR (Monotype)
    or Relflex (Sudtipos) might ask the same of me later. Or demand. And, I might
    be selling an OpenType fancy version at the time. I also already had plans to
    add a 4xx 'Perplex'(wavy) 5xx 'Vertex' (double border) and 9xx 'Index' (graduated)
    versions. I cannot change the names over and over, so must I change them now?
    Again, all but one of those, could put me at risk of more complaints, while I
    see other foundries share face names like lovers do spit.\r\n\r\nI meant them
    to just a little flourish, inspired by the idea of a Toyota MR2 Spyder and the
    Fiat 850 Spyder; or, The Triumph TR7 Spyder, for that matter.\r\n\r\nI feel trapped,
    and while that is not your problem, I am trying to deal with it as rapidly as
    possible to reach a decision to your satisfaction, as well as my own. I am sorry
    if bringing it here made you uncomfortable, or left you feeling misrepresented.
    !Exclamachine fonts are designed to portray levity, funkiness and lightheartedness.
    And rocketships. I want this ambience to affect all things about my fonts, and
    how I am seen in the community. Please, bear with me.\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-05 23:52:42'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I think if Village had reserved the name Apex, but had not yet released it,
    you would have a point. But, because Apex has been available for 3 years now it
    is a little unfair, just a tad?, to accuse them of having an unfair advantage.\r\n\r\nI
    feel for you. Naming is probably quite a challenge. But a necessary evil, no?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "I'm not saying that he has an unfair advantage in any way. Whatever it
      is that allows some MAJOR foundries to share names verbatim, That's the unfair
      advantage. Meanwhile he must be so vigilant about anything somewhat similar
      is the sad part.\r\n\r\n>But a necessary evil, no?\r\n\r\nI don't know. The
      naming part is quickly losing its charm. I am afaid that my font names will
      become just long scrambled strings of characters, out of fear of doing anything
      slightly like anything anyone has ever done anywhere ever. The compliments for
      the choices of names had actually been something of a motivator to continue
      previously.\r\n\r\nMaybe I'll switch to purely goofy mispellings, !BaZkeT uv
      hammmmmmers, !SKWAYR NGN... Ugh. I think I need to go for a walk.\r\n\r\nChoz
      Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
    created: '2006-10-06 00:46:18'
  created: '2006-10-06 00:25:06'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "You are blowing this way out of proportion. Just change the name.\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "That fixes Chester's problem right now, but doesn't do anything to help
      me resolve the bigger picture. The porportions vary, depending on perspective.\r\n\r\nChoz
      Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
    created: '2006-10-06 02:17:54'
  created: '2006-10-06 01:24:12'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "If so-called major foundries are sharing names:\r\n\r\nA) Show some examples
    so maybe we can explain why.\r\nB) They've made a legal/financial agreement to
    do so. (I'd guess.)"
  created: '2006-10-06 02:50:47'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "What is the bigger picture? That you want to use a name that is already in
    use? Everybody else who is making typefaces seem to be doing alright. \r\n\r\nLike
    I said before: just change the name.\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2006-10-06 03:09:29'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">A) Show some examples so maybe we can explain why.\r\n\r\nMaybe Choz is
    thinking of something like Garamond? Some names are in the public domain, and
    until a clever lawyer manages to register them, they're free for all to use, not
    just 'major foundries'. Maybe?   "
  created: '2006-10-06 03:10:43'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Si, that is what I was thinking. Or perhaps how some foundries sell other
    foundries work such as Adobe selling Linotype. Or if you search on MyFonts for
    "Aachen" you get several different foundries with that same font and fontname
    ... on FontShop too.
  created: '2006-10-06 03:18:07'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Sii, Tiffany - \r\nthose are both examples of some of what I am referring
    to. In the first post I linked to \r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/times-roman/familytree.html\r\n\r\nThat
    was what I meant by hard to understand/take seriously.\r\n\r\nAll individual words
    are in the public domain. that's about copyright, and I am not up for that one
    at this moment. Times and Roman are just words to be used, though they <em> may
    </em> be trademarked in relation to a distinctive font. I think that means they
    couldn't be used together or apart in a way where one would think they were looking
    at the Mark holder's font.\r\n\r\nFrom the page, \".... Both Linotype and Monotype
    claim trademark rights in spite of the origin at The Times.\" So who is right.
    Why hasn't one budged? Related to that, why do difrerent foundries sell each other's
    fonts, and then claim thier own trademarks on them, or alter the fonts but not
    change the names? It all seems screwy to me.\r\n\r\nAnd most specifically, there
    are \"Roman\" versions of many fonts, many have nothing to do with Times (x) Roman.
    When is the version part of the name and when is it just a descriptor? Is one
    limited to what ever  popular style variants are only in a common list, ie; Bold,
    Demi, Cond/Condensed, Italic?\r\n\r\nkris - \r\nThis is a forum, what you last
    said is still right there in the thread. Thank you for your input.\r\n\r\nChoz
    Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-06 03:58:54'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "The Code of Federal Regulations: \L``The following are examples of works
    not subject to copyright and applications for registration of such works cannot
    be entertained: . . .typeface as typeface ' 37 CFR 202.1(e).\r\n\r\n\r\n\LThe
    House of Representatives report that accompanied the new copyright law ( passed
    in 1976):\r\n\L``The Committee has considered, but chosen to defer, the possibility
    of protecting the design of typefaces. A 'typeface' can be defined as a set of
    letters, numbers, or other symbolic characters, whose forms are related by repeating
    design elements consistently applied in a notational system and are intended to
    be embodied in articles whose intrinsic utilitarian function is for use in composing
    text or other cognizable combinations of characters. The Committee does not regard
    the design of typeface, as thus defined, to be a copyrightable 'pictorial, graphic,
    or sculptural work' within the meaning of this bill and the application of the
    dividing line in section 101.'' H. R. Rep. No. 94-1476, 94th Congress, 2d Session
    at 55 (1976), reprinted in 1978 U.S. Cong. and Admin. News 5659, 5668.\r\n\r\n++++++\r\n\r\nWarning:
    I'm not a lawyer"
  created: '2006-10-06 04:09:43'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Times is an interesting one, and I think its a unique case - probably well
    documented in some scholarly journal. I think the simple answer is that "Times
    New Roman" is a Monotype TM, "Times Roman" is a Linotpye mark, "The Times" is
    of course owned by Newscorp, as is the "Times Classic" name, with co-existence
    agreements in place amongst the parties? However no one here is a TM attorney
    so who knows. Any other examples? '
  created: '2006-10-06 04:18:29'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: David, what do copyrights have to do with this discussion??? Just wondering?
  created: '2006-10-06 04:19:50'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Thank you, I was looking for that earlier! It relates indeirectly i suppose.
    I feel that the above information has left type artists very touchy, since the
    very essence of the work, its design, has be left apart from the protections offered
    to most other American media. I don't know why it is like that, but it is. Has
    that left us all more touchy about the names themselves, in reaction? For example,
    the revers is far more common:  a movie name is reusable by other movies (not
    just licensed remakes, but unrelated works) but the movie itself isn't so free.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    in digital type, isn't the work still copyrightable, and possibly patentable,
    as software instead?"
  created: '2006-10-06 04:23:00'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Sii, what about other fonts that use times in their names? examples\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/elemeno/times-kangaroo-down/\r\n\r\nhttp://www.1001fonts.com/font_details.html?font_id=942\r\n\r\nhttp://www.deviantart.com/deviation/26240258/\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd
    thank you for all your time and thought on this subject."
  created: '2006-10-06 04:46:26'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Mr Murdoch's lawyers are probably working on other cases right now.
  created: '2006-10-06 04:49:39'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Miss Tiffany:\r\n\r\n> I think if Village had reserved the name Apex, but
    had not yet released it, you would have a point. But, because Apex has been available
    for 3 years now it is a little unfair, just a tad?, to accuse them of having an
    unfair advantage.\r\n\r\nJust a tad?\r\n\r\nTrademark law is based on the principle
    of priority. Therefore the Village outfit (or Mr. Chester Jenkins) cannot claim
    the word \"Apex\" (by the way, it is a Latin word) as a trademark for the \"Village\"
    font \"Apex\", because the \"Village\" font \"Apex\" was published in 2003, whereas
    the \"Elfring\" font \"Apex\" was published many years before the year 2003:\r\n\r\nsee
    http://www.sanskritweb.de/files/apex.gif (dated 3rd July 1996)\r\n\r\nThe \"Elfring\"
    font \"Apex\" is \"traded\" (= sold) ever since, for instance on the Herlitz font
    collection CD 2002, so that the trademark \"Apex\" of the \"Elfring\" font \"Apex\"
    is still in use.\r\n\r\nsee http://www.forgers.de/forgers/herlitz.pdf (pages 2,
    79)\r\n\r\nsee also the Elfring website http://www.elfring.com\r\n\r\nThe statement
    by Chester Jenkins that the \"Elfring\" font \"Apex\" \"is actually a pirate version
    of Aachen\", does not have an influence on the trademark law, because in the funny
    font forging industry, even font forgeries may be trademarked. Examples:\r\n\r\n\"Arial\"
    is trademark of a font forgery of \"Helvetica\".\r\n\"Segoe\" is a trademark of
    a font forgery of \"Frutiger\".\r\n\"Apex\" is a trademark of a font forgery of
    \"Aachen\".\r\n\r\nIncidentally, there are many forgeries of the font \"Aachen\",
    partly traded under the trademark \"Aachen\", partly traded under other trademarks.
    For examples of other \"Aachen\" forgeries study my website.\r\n\r\nIf Mr. Chester
    Jenkins were allowed to use the trademark \"Apex\" for the \"Village\" font \"Apex\",
    then also Mr. Choz Cunningham were allowed to used the trademark \"Apex\" for
    his font. But due to the priority of the trademark \"Apex\" originally coined
    by the font forging outfit \"Elfring\" for the forgery of the font \"Aachen\",
    neither Mr. Chester Jenkins nor Mr. Choz Cunningham are allowed to use the trademark
    \"Apex\", irrespective of whether the fonts by Mr. Chester Jenkins and by Mr.
    Choz Cunningham are forgeries or not.\r\n\r\nDe lege ferenda (by a future legislation),
    the trademark law should disallow the use of trademarks for forgeries of commodities.
    Yet after the enactment of such a future trademark law, most fonts (\"Arial\",
    \"Segoe\", \"Apex\" etc. etc.) would be nameless, because thousands and thousands
    of fonts are forgeries.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-06 11:44:30'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Roman is a classification, like Regular or 55, I find it difficult to believe
    that a lawyer would be able to demonstrate otherwise although I suppose TNR would
    be the one to prove that with.\r\n\r\nBut it is surely the end user who should
    be considered here, if there are two fonts with substantially different names
    but could end up being called Apex in a studio or between client and designer
    (both can be equally clueless about giving a full name and confusion <em>does</em>
    happen) it seems fair (to a potential user) that the less established should look
    for another name, personally I quite like the numerical system you have developed.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-06 15:39:40'
- author:
    name: Village
  body: "Hello again.\r\n\r\nFirst, I would like to point out that the Aachen clone
    mentioned by \"Uli\", and trademarked by Elfring is named \"Aapex\", not \"Apex\".
    I'm pretty sure that I saw this typeface in my searching for conflicts with the
    Apex name, but felt that we were safe because; 1) The words were not the same,
    and 2) The Aapex font was clearly a rip-off of Aachen, down to the \"Aa\" in its
    name.\r\n\r\nAs far as who gets to name their fonts what they want to... It's
    not about large versus small foundries, it's about who was first. If one of the
    large foundries came along with an \"Apex\" typeface, I would not roll over for
    them because they are bigger. We had the name in 2003, when the type family was
    initially published; we didn't \"squat\" on the name for a few years.\r\n\r\nI
    had not threatened Mr Cunningham - and thank you for clearing that up; I felt
    silly with all of the Mr/Ms stuff - with legal action, but merely pointed out
    that one of his colleagues - namely me - had already released a typeface named
    Apex, which had already gained a certain market presence. I asked him to consider
    another name, since it's always best to avoid confusion in the marketplace. I
    was relying upon Mr Cunningham's professional courtesy to \"do the right thing.\"\r\n\r\nAs
    Mr Daniels pointed out, a typeface's name is really very important to the marketing
    and awareness of that typeface, which is why professional type designers and publishers
    are so concerned with finding a unique, memorable, and appropriate name for their
    wares.\r\n\r\nI hope that Mr Cunningham will reconsider his use of previously-used
    names, regardless of trademark status, as he joins the type industry/community.\r\n\r\nWith
    best,\r\nc"
  created: '2006-10-06 16:22:04'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Chester Jenkins:\r\n\r\n> First, I would like to point out that the Aachen
    clone mentioned by \u201CUli\u201D, and trademarked by Elfring is named \u201CAapex\u201D,
    not \u201CApex\u201D.\r\n\r\nThat is correct: A Apex (\"peak of A\"), (not Apex
    alone). \r\nBut the same holds true for \"ApexSans\" (not Apex alone).\r\nAnd
    holds true for \"Square Engine Apex\" (not Apex alone).\r\n\r\nSo \"ApexSans\"
    is a trademark infringement concerning the prior Elfring trademark.\r\n\r\n> The
    Aapex font was clearly a rip-off of Aachen\r\n\r\nI repeat: In trademark matters,
    it is irrelevant whether \"Aapex\" and \"ApexSans\" are \"rip-offs\". \r\n\r\nYou
    may also label \"ApexSans\" as a \"rip-off\". For instance:\r\n\r\nThe \"A\" of
    \"ApexSans\" is a \"rip-off\" of a \"A\" from\r\n http://www.forgers.de/letters/char_aa.pdf\r\n\r\nThe
    \"B\" of \"ApexSans\" is a \"rip-off\" of a \"B\" from\r\n http://www.forgers.de/letters/char_bb.pdf\r\n\r\netc.
    etc. (see http://www.forgers.de/letters for the other letters)\r\n\r\nBut as I
    said: It is irrelevant here whether \"Aapex\" and \"ApexSans\" are \"rip-offs\".\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-06 18:38:55'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Tim Daly:\r\n\r\n> Roman is a classification, like Regular or 55, I find
    it difficult to believe that a lawyer would be able to demonstrate otherwise although
    I suppose TNR would be the one to prove that with.\r\n\r\nAs regards \"Times New
    Roman\" etc. read the section \"Acquired distinctiveness\" in the Wikipedia \"Trademark\"
    overview article, where it is stated: \"... the right to use the mark and the
    registration may become \"incontestable\".\r\n\r\nsee http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trademark\r\n\r\nFor
    more details consult a textbook on trademark law."
  created: '2006-10-06 18:52:37'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "To wrap it all up------------------\r\n\r\nI am renaming the typefaces in
    question to \"!Square Engine 050 Defex\" and \"!Square Engine 050 Defex Bold\"
    tonight.\r\n\r\nWhether it is the name of one font or another, it makes several
    people uncomfortable to be used as a generic classification term. I have found
    so many things in the font world to explore, and seek to see this resolved promptly,
    so that I may continue. I see this exact situation as playing nice, but I hope
    that everyone takes note of the issues it brought up.\r\n\r\nAs far as I understand,
    there is some  way to make the non-standardized stylistic variants appear as submenu
    items, rather than being forced into the title-space, at least on some operating
    systems. Does anyone have any more details on that? I think it might have helped
    soothe things in this case a lot.\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type
    Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-06 19:47:33'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "This seems like quite the naming legal issues that screwed many in the industry
    by company B that for the sake of all involved shall remain nameless. \r\n\r\nWhile
    of course this isn't as severe since no legal action has been threatened\u2014
    I don't see the logic. Clearly, this is a subject that has gray area\u2014 particularly
    when said publisher carries a typeface with a name similar to a well-known classic.
    It should also be noted that it is imperceptible to the human ear which typeface
    is being referred to when spoken. Univers or <a href=http://www.vllg.com/Thirstype/Eunuverse/mudTyper+Weights/>Eunuverse</a>?\r\n\r\nI
    didn't think common words could be trademarked? I think I'll call a typeface \"the.\"
    Nope, \"The Sans\" already exists. Well then \"Apex Sans\" seems to be sufficient
    to avoid confusion."
  created: '2006-10-06 21:08:51'
- author:
    name: Village
  body: "Mr Cunningham,\r\nthis has all become far too Kafka-esque for me... \r\n\r\nI
    thank you for choosing to rename the \"Apex\" version of your typeface as \"Defex\".
    And I wish you luck with the other foundries whose names you are also using: \"As
    I mentioned earlier the makers of the faces Simplex TR (Monotype) or Relflex (Sudtipos)
    might ask the same of me later.\"\r\n\r\nI wish you luck and best wishes.\r\nc"
  created: '2006-10-06 21:29:16'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "This came down to a personal decision, regardless of the legal fine points.
    If there is a next time, we'll see what happens. Perhaps I'll get the styling
    out of the namespace by then. Perhaps I'll be the world's first stinkin' rich
    type designer, and just throw gobs of money at all my problems. ;)\r\n\r\n!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-07 05:26:43'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Uli,\r\nThanks for the link, looks like font bundling <em>could</em> change
    classification, on the other hand descriptive use would seem to negate any attempt
    to trademark Roman on its own or to stop others using it to <em>honestly</em>
    describe their typeface.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-07 09:29:38'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Tim Daly:\r\n\r\nAs you surely saw at http://www.uspto.gov/main/trademarks.htm\r\n\r\n\"Times
    New Roman\" is registered for Monotype, and\r\n\"Times Roman\" is registered for
    Linotype\r\n\r\nBut in both cases, only the FULL word expression is registered,
    not the single words. As regards \"Roman\", the registration at the above link
    contains the disclaimer:\r\n\r\n\"No claim is made to the exclusive right to use
    \"Roman\", apart from the mark as shown.\"\r\n\r\nGenerally speaking, any substantive
    (noun) used to denote a class of commodities (e.g. \"Font\") and any adjective
    used to characterize a class of commodities (e.g. \"Italic\") is excluded from
    registration as a trademark for THIS GIVEN class of commodities. However such
    words may be registered as trademarks, if they do NOT denote or characterize a
    given class of commodities, i.e. if they are used as trademarks for OTHER classes
    of commodities.\r\n\r\n- For example, the word \"Roman\" is registered for a specific
    brand of meal bread by the American Roman Meal Company. This was permitted, because
    the word \"Roman\" has nothing to do with bread.\r\n\r\n- For example, the word
    \"Antiqua\" is registered for a specific brand of kitchen faucet by the German
    Hansgrohe AG. This was permitted, because the word \"Antiqua\" has nothing to
    do with a faucet.\r\n\r\nIn the font business, however, \"Roman\" (in English-speaking
    countries) and \"Antiqua\" (in German-speaking countries) denote a specific class
    of fonts (i.e. non-italic old-style fonts). Therefore it is not permitted to register
    the word \"Roman\" alone or the word \"Antiqua\" alone as a trademark for a specific
    font.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-07 13:33:18'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "No, I looked at this site\r\nhttp://www.patent.gov.uk/tm.htm\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-07 13:45:24'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Just wanted to send a quick apology to Chester. I think my post sounded a
    bit sarcastic and I apologize for coming off like a \"big meany.\" :)\r\n\r\nUli
    brings up some good points and articulated his point a little better than I may
    have. The bottom line is for me, if you use a common English word in the name
    of your font, there might be naming problems later on down the line. And as I
    illustrated, it seems to be pretty common to walk the line of font naming ambiguity.\r\n\r\nAdditionally,
    before you decide on a naming system you should check trademarks, patents and
    all that other fun stuff before you settle on names. It will save you trouble
    in the long run. Imagine if Frutiger gave each width and weight of Univers a different
    name...it'd get confusing and a bit ridiculous eventually.\r\n\r\nI'm sure both
    sides had good intentions and I'm glad the issue has been settled. This is a very
    good thread as it discusses a lot of issues that aren't often talked about in
    the type \"bit-ness.\" Well, at least to us lay-folk...\r\n\r\nWhat's with the
    800 lb. gorilla threads lately? As Martha says, \"its a good thing.\" :) "
  created: '2006-10-07 20:41:15'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>What\u2019s with the 800 lb. gorilla threads lately?</em>\r\n\r\nI think
    some of it comes from just being a good place to talk about what is at hand. The
    readership must be immense. Signifigant/famous type and graphic designers, and
    type technology developers chime in right alongside pleasant regulars, and newbies
    are made pretty comfortable. Plus, the posts' collective coherence here blows
    the doors off of other forums.\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-08 01:58:12'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Terry Biddle:\r\n\r\n> Uli brings up some good points\r\n\r\nTypophile's
    Yves Peters labels such points as \"troll\" points :-)\r\n\r\n> Clearly, this
    is a subject that has gray area\u2014 particularly when said publisher carries
    a typeface with a name similar to a well-known classic. It should also be noted
    that it is imperceptible to the human ear which typeface is being referred to
    when spoken. Univers or Eunuverse?\r\n\r\nI do not think that we have a gray area
    here:\r\n\r\nFor \"Univers\" see http://www.linotype.com/53226\r\n\r\nFor \"Eunuverse\"
    see http://www.vllg.com/Thirstype/Eunuverse\r\n\r\nThe non-registered trademark
    \"Eunuverse\" constitutes a trademark infringement on the following grounds:\r\n\r\n1)
    Both commodities - Univers and Eunuverse - are sans serif fonts thus belonging
    to the same class of commodities.\r\n\r\n2) Both trademarks - Univers and Eunuverse
    - though written differently, are pronounced identically.\r\n\r\n3) The older
    font \"Univers\" has priority over the later font \"Eunuverse\".\r\n\r\nWhile
    \"Eunuverse\" is not registered, \"Univers\" is a registered trademark in the
    USA:\r\n\r\nSee http://www.uspto.gov/main/trademarks.htm\r\n\r\nSearch for the
    registration numbers 1203444 and 1203444 to directly locate the registrations
    of \"Univers\".\r\n\r\nIn Germany, \"Eunuverse\" would constitute a trademark
    infringement on the grounds stated above (for Germans: siehe BGH-Entscheidung
    vom 14.5.1998, Az. I ZB 9/96, Stichwort \"DRAGON\").\r\n \r\nIn the USA, it appears
    that \"Eunuverse\" also constitutes a trademark infringement on the same grounds.
    See e.g. the article\r\n\r\nhttp://www.tms.org/pubs/journals/JOM/matters/matters-0212.html\r\n\r\nIn
    this article, we read:\r\n\r\n\"Obviously, if the marks are exactly the same in
    spelling and how they are pronounced, there is a greater chance of likelihood
    of confusion between the marks. It is important to note that slight misspellings
    or changes in an established mark will not enable a competitor to use his proposed
    mark. For example, a beverage manufacturer could not adopt the mark \u201CKoka
    Kola,\u201D because although this mark is spelled differently from the famous
    Coca-Cola mark, it is still pronounced the same.\"\r\n\r\nIt goes without saying
    that Mr. Chester Jenkins of  the Village outfit selected the name \"Eunuverse\"
    in order to exploit the fame of the competitor's font \"Univers\" which is claimed
    to rank among the ten most often purchased fonts according to the (unverified,
    unattested) sales ranking published at the Linotype website.\r\n\r\nFor those
    who still wonder or still doubt why the pronuncation of trademarks is essential,
    it should be noted that a \"trademark\" covers both the \"trade by writing\" (e.g.
    purchase order by typed letter) as well as the \"trade by speaking\" (e.g. purchase
    order by telephone).\r\n\r\nFor example, the FontShop in California sells both
    \"Univers\" and \"Eunuverse\". Let's assume, there are two telephone calls by
    purchasers:\r\n\r\nA says: \"I want to order the sans serif font \"Univers\"\r\nB
    says: \"I want to order the sans serif font \"Eunuverse\"\r\n\r\nI guess, it is
    now clear why Mr. Chester Jenkins should not have selected the name \"Eunuverse\"
    and that he should drop this illegal trademark as fast as possible for this reason:
    Linotype (now owned by Monotype) as a big font company engaging a couple of lawyers
    is far above the small-time league of the Elfring outfit which probably does not
    have enough money to institute a lawsuit against the Village outfit in the similar
    \"Apex\" infringement matter."
  created: '2006-10-08 08:52:30'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Hi Uli,\r\n\r\nI just browsed through your website and your posts here with
    utter amazement. You seem to be full of anger on one hand and enthusiasm on the
    other - I really wonder what gives you the motivation to do what you do.\r\n\r\nAre
    you connected to the type business in any way? If not, do you think what you do
    changes the world? Have you ever achieved anything? Do you think it is helpful
    to anyone? Is it fun to piss of people? If not, what makes you tick?\r\n\r\nJust
    curious.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-08 22:08:17'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "Aplex, Simpex, Refex and Latrex\r\n\r\ninteresting read.\r\n\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com/motion.htm\">Graphic
    Design, Melbourne</a>"
  created: '2006-10-09 00:17:28'
- author:
    name: Village
  body: "Univers is pronounced \"You-knee-vair\".\r\nEunuverse is pronounced \"You-new-verse\".\r\n\r\n[posted
    a little later...]\r\n\r\nAnyone familiar with Mr Barry Deck's work over the past
    two decades knows that he takes a very ironic approach to both disciplines of
    type and graphic design, best exemplified by his early student works, Canicopulis
    Script, Repressed Victorian Roman, Template Gothic, and Arbitrary, the last two
    of which were published by Emigre in the early days of digital type in 1990.\r\n\r\n\"Eunuverse\"
    was designed by Mr Deck, as the text face for \"Ray Gun\" magazine in 1998/9,
    when Barry was the art director, after stints by David Carson and Wolverton &
    Johnston. The name was meant as an inside joke for designers, who would never
    be allowed to specify such a non-traditional typeface. (Just as they would have
    a hard time convincing their clients to adopt \"Cyberotica\", \"Orgasm\", or \"Amputee\",
    (aka \"Traitor\".)\r\n\r\nMany artists over the years have appropriated past works
    in order to make a point about the nature of art, and the nature of art appreciation,
    from Andy Warhol to Bansky, and from composers such as Luciano Berio, John Cage,
    and the pop musician Beck, whose grandfather was the Fluxus artist Al Hansen.\r\n\r\nNot
    only is Eunuverse not trying to pass itself off as Univers, but it is adamantly
    shouting that is is not Univers."
  created: '2006-10-09 00:26:09'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Univers is pronounced \u201CYou-knee-vair\u201D.\r\nEunuverse is pronounced
    \u201CYou-new-verse\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nThomas Phinney pointed that out not too
    long ago...this may be, but most graphic designers don't actually pronounce it
    that way. Most designers also say Helvetica \"New.\" \r\n\r\nAnyway, its all good.
    But I still think its gray area. Although my opinion differs in this matter, I'm
    still a big fan of Village distributed typefaces. :)"
  created: '2006-10-09 03:30:55'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "In the French-speaking country France, the font \"Univers\" is pronounced
    like the French word \"univers\" (l'univers = le monde, i.e. universe = world).
    In the late 1950s, when \"Univers\" was designed, Frutiger was art director of
    the defunct foundry Deberny & Peignot, and Charles Peignot himself coined the
    font name \"Univers\" (see Frutiger's German book \"Buch der Schriften\", Wiesbaden
    2005, page 98. Adrian Frutiger pronounces the font name \"Univers\" and his own
    name \"Frutiger\" in the German way, unless he talks to French-speaking people.)\r\n\r\nIn
    the English-speaking country United States, the font \"Univers\" is usually pronounced
    like the English word \"universe\". In the thread http://typophile.com/node/28042,
    Mr. Mark Simonson states: \"I think most American designers pronounce \u201CUnivers\u201D
    the same as \u201Cuniverse\u201D (including me)\". Likewise, the font \"Eunuverse\"
    is also pronounced like the English word \"universe\" (compare the first two syllables
    of \"Eunuverse\" with the first two syllables of \"eunuchoidism\").\r\n\r\nMr.
    Chester Jenkins's report about Mr. Barry Deck's work is very interesting, and
    also his remark that \"Eunuverse\" was meant as an inside joke for designers,
    but in legal trademark matters, the only decisive question is this: Can the font
    name \"Eunuverse\", when uttered orally, be confused with the font name \"Universe\"?
    The answer is \"yes\". Such confusions always arise when the pronunciation of
    two trademarks is either very similar or identical. For the German Supreme Court,
    even a very similar pronunciation is sufficient for trademark infringement, see
    the BGH decision quoted above.\r\n\r\nMr. Tim Ahrens asks, whether it is fun to
    piss off people. This make me recollect Linotype's former managing director Bruno
    Steinert, who was recently dismissed and replaced by the new managing director
    Frank Wildenberg, who studied mechanical engineering in Barcelona and who knows
    as much about typography and typefaces as my grandmother knew about mechanical
    engineering. To judge from the information received from the visitors to my website,
    Bruno Steinert, during his long career in the font forging industry, seems to
    have sent off more cease-and-desist letters in typeface trademark matters than
    royalty statements in typeface design matters. He must have had much fun to piss
    off people."
  created: '2006-10-09 14:24:31'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Chester Jenkins:\r\n\r\nWhile doing research in other matters, by pure chance
    I discovered this:\r\n\r\nA font with the name \"Apex\" was designed by Gerrit
    Noordzij thus having font name priority over your much later font \"Apex\". See
    \"Typography. When Who How\", edited by Friedrich Friedl et al., Cologne 1998,
    page 411.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-11 12:48:22'
date: '2006-10-05 22:07:16'
node_type: forum
title: The worst thing to get in your inbox

---
