---
author:
  name: Pixion
body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nAs Thomas Phinney mentioned somewhere else on this forum, a lot
  of typefaces look very similar (~95% similarity).\r\n\r\nI am working on a design
  in which I take inspiration from a couple of existing fonts. After doing a \"What
  the font\" search on myfonts.com (with my design), it comes up with the inspirational
  font listed as nr. 1...\r\n\r\nDo I need to start worrying on originality / distinctiveness?
  Did I take too much inspiration, or is the search engine looking for gross indicators
  (x-height, as/descenders, sidebearing etc.)?\r\n\r\nI know you all take originality
  very serious, so I wonder what opinions are out there.\r\n\r\nSebastian"
comments:
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Worry, but not a lot. If you are making someone else's design over again,
    it will be glaringly apparent pretty much instantly, so you probably don't have
    to contemplate it too long.\r\n\r\nBearing that in mind, if you find it is too
    similar, think about why, more than the specifics of what. If you still want it
    feel inspired, borrow more from the other font. If you wont it to be more your
    own look, make up a bunch of silly or weird vatiants, like doodles. Go on to another
    task for a bit. Then, borrow some from the best of your own brainstorm.\r\n\r\n\r\nChoz
    Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-07 19:18:29'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "[Since I don't know to which typeface you are referring, this is about the
    notion of 'inspiration' in general, not about particular typefaces.]\r\n\r\nWhat
    do you mean by 'inspiration'? Whenever you look too close at a some typeface when
    working on your own, this may result in something more than just 'inspired-by'.&nbsp;&nbsp;:)\r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I am not fond of typefaces that want to look as if they were made by Underware
    or OurType (the way they deal with curves, stem ends and serifs) or, a few years
    ago, by sanserifs that wanted to be another Thesis (either being a bombastic family
    of the same genre, or imitating the special way of handling shoulder-to-stem connections:
    italic construction in an upright type, at worst without even <cite>understanding</cite>
    what is so special about the imitated one).\r\nIn general, there's nothing worse
    than drawing 'inspiration' from too recent typefaces -- this is plain 'me too'
    and waste of time.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, it seems only natural that at a particular
    period of time, very similar typefaces emerge. So after a period of neat and round
    typefaces in the eighties, designers felt a need for doing rather dark and rough
    typefaces. It may even happen that around the same time, two or more designers
    draw inspiration from similar or same historic typefaces. Sometimes some things
    are in the air.\r\nAnd sometimes it can be a funny game to 'compete' with a collegue.
    Say, both address a special problem by applying a similar solution, and see who
    will achieve the better result. But this implies that each must follow his/her
    own design style (mere copying/imitating outlines and tweaking a bit here and
    there is not allowed), and most of all, it requires a good portion of friendship
    and open-minded-ness and humor.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2006-10-07 20:05:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am not sure if you are talking about a revival or not.  If not, I think
    it is a case of \"in your heart, you will know\" kind of thing. If you are trying
    to make a \"me too\" font, you know when you have gotten too close.  It may be
    better to just start drawing type without looking for inspiration from type that
    is already out there. Something must have prompted you to get into designing type
    to begin with.  I can't imagine it was purposely copying something already done.
    You probably have a personal vision of what a typeface could be from your perspective.
    As Goudy once said, \"just draw a line around that vision.\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-07 20:20:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You might also take a look at this recent thread on \"Retro=Stealing\" for
    some thoughts.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/28536\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-07 20:23:03'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: '... and read the linked to article by John Downer. :^)'
  created: '2006-10-07 20:26:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yes! Read that for sure!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-07 20:30:07'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Copywrong \xA9 2020. Go Ahead.\r\nIt is not not only expected but encouraged!\r\nNeverthelss,
    you should seek professional counselling?!"
  created: '2006-10-07 20:31:47'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "I dont think you have to worry, I mean \u2013 just look at how many interpretations
    of Meta that has been designed since it came out ;-)"
  created: '2006-10-07 21:14:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "As a practical matter, you should draw it from scratch. If you bring an existing
    typeface into FontLab or Fontographer and start messing with it to create something
    new, the chances of your being imitative in a bad or even illegal way are far
    higher.  \r\n\r\nIf you start from scratch, even if inspired by existing typefaces--and
    everyone is--the chances are that substantially more of you will go into it, for
    better or worse, but at least for a difference. "
  created: '2006-10-07 21:28:50'
- author:
    name: Pixion
  body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nThanks for your insight. I read the post and article Chris and
    Miss Tiffany refer to.\r\n\r\nMaybe it helps to be more specific. Here the design
    I am working on:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Primus_3674.jpg]\r\n\r\nAnd
    here Quadraat (FF, Fred Smeijers).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Quadraat_6473.jpg]\r\n\r\nSebastian"
  created: '2006-10-07 21:35:22'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: "Sorry, but the thought that springs to mind at first sight of your font is:
    Quadraat \u2014 but not quite itself today. Obviously, the better the model, the
    more difficult it is to depart from it."
  created: '2006-10-07 22:17:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I wonder what your intension was with this redrawing Sebastian? \r\nMr. Smith's
    comment was a well crafted piece of commentary, I must say.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-07 22:26:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Well, Mr Smith has edited it :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-07 22:27:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "By the way, Fred Smeijers himself writes very interestingly on the issue
    of originality in type design. It is in his book Type Now. He says that good revivals
    (such as his own Renard) have \"much to do with respect and understanding and
    revivals require a great deal of skill.\" \r\nHe goes on to comment acidly that
    some of his colleagues who denigrate revivals seem also to 'revive' Quadraat italic
    themselves! After reading this, I'm afraid that you'll want to go back to the
    drawing board.  \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-07 22:38:18'
- author:
    name: Pixion
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nI didn't have any particular intentions other than learning.
    I am trying to get a better understanding where boundaries lie.\r\n\r\nI can see
    that there are quite some familiarities (proportions, stress, bowl shapes, long
    arced f, flaring stems), but when looking at the many fonts out there, you sometimes
    have to zoom in very close to figure out the differences. \r\n\r\nOn the other
    hand, aren't there also quite some differences: g,k,j,s,u,v,w,y,x. Or are these
    differences considered too small to render the font distinguishing enough?\r\n\r\nAgain,
    I am an enthousisatic hobbyist who is trying to learn the art. I see where people
    are coming from and will take that to heart!\r\n\r\nSebastian"
  created: '2006-10-08 00:52:44'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Your face has it differences, in particular the j and the x are very endearing.
    On the other hand, the e looks different, but not 'better', per se. I think, if
    I felt it was close enough to first even ask, then I'd look at the most common
    letters and letter pairs, and ponder how I could mmake them the most distinct
    components.\r\n\r\nIf it was my project, I'd do something with one aspect that
    was consistently different, like a particular serif location, across all the letters.
    But, then, I might make the g look really weird for the heck of it, too. Flipping
    through fonts it amazing how little people play with baby g.\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-08 01:48:13'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "This topic has surfaced in a massive number of lists and groups, and, I suspect,
    will for years to come.  \r\n\r\nThe questions you have to ask about what makes
    what you're doing \"different\" should include what the \"changes\" you are making
    to something that already exists.\r\n\r\nThe standard Roman alphabet has the requisite
    numbers and letters (upper- and lower-case), standardized symbols, the generally
    accepted alternates (accents, etc.) and whatever other languages you want to do,
    which leaves a lot of room for move around.\r\n\r\nAs most others have pointed
    out, it's an extremely fine line to walk: in my \"spare\" time, I create art in
    a very different medium, and we're always picking nits about what is \"original\"
    and what isn't.  And in that field, have considerably fewer basics to build on....
    \ \r\n\r\nLinda\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-08 03:49:06'
- author:
    name: Pixion
  body: "Choz,\r\n\r\nThanks for those pointers. I will take a step back and give
    it a spin. For me learning is the objective and to come up with a better design
    than 'the master' would be a couple of bridges too far.\r\n\r\nLinda,\r\n\r\nYou
    mention you create art in a very different medium, with even fewer basisc to build
    on. For a newcomer in the field of type design, wanting to try to design a readable,
    'classy' text face, on first sight the basics to build on seem to be pretty limited
    as well. I guess it will take time and experience before one can see beyond these
    basic limitations.\r\n\r\nSebastian"
  created: '2006-10-08 17:08:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I didn\u2019t have any particular intentions other than learning\"\r\n\r\nThe
    best way to learn is to jump in and do battle with it, make the struggle your
    own and see what you learn from it.  What I mean is, start with a clean slate
    and design a set of glyphs from scratch.  You will, by seeing your frustrating
    errors, figure out what all the many variables are and make a leap from there.
    If you have a typeface inside of you, let it out.  Giving birth to a typeface
    involves a justation period and labor pains, yes, but don't fear it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-08 17:15:52'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: "Sebastian, I just wondered, looking at the x and a few other things: was
    Dolly among your inspirational fonts? You seem to like Dutch type. So do I (and
    I think we're not the only ones).\r\n\r\nChoz has a point about the potential
    of lowercase g. Because it's the letter with the most complex history, which has
    made it most different from its uppercase counterpart, and, in its present state,
    because it has practically no part in common with any other letter. John Baskerville
    and Fred Goudy made the best of this - and Pierre Didot jumped to amusing conclusions
    about how g really ought to be (see JFPorchez' late-Didot revivals)."
  created: '2006-10-08 17:55:56'
- author:
    name: Pixion
  body: "MHSmith,\r\n\r\nNo, Dolly was not amongst the inspirational fonts. But what
    a co-incidence! I was just listening to Typeradio's interviews with Smeijers,
    and when browsing the Underware site, downloaded Dolly's specimen. When looking
    at it, I see where you are coming from re. the design I am working on. I also
    see strong influences of Quadraat on Dolly (o, c, e etc.). \r\n\r\nAs a matter
    of fact I am Dutch, but that is not the reason why I like Dutch designs..\r\n\r\nDo
    you think I am also getting too close to Dolly? \r\n\r\nSebastian\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-08 18:34:07'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: You're certainly right about Quadraat as part of the background of Dolly,
    but Dolly has a lovely lively character of its own, and quite uncommon serifs.
    I don't think you could possibly be too close to both at the same time.
  created: '2006-10-08 18:56:34'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "Whenever this subject comes up, I always think of art students who set up
    their easel in a museum and paint a copy of some great master's work. (Not like
    they let you do that in museums any more!) I think it's one of the best ways to
    learn.\r\n\r\nWith type, I see nothing wrong with trying to create some version
    of Times Roman for yourself, with some changes that you think make it better for
    you. Such work, though, should remain forever in your desk drawer. In any case,
    it's probably not the kind of thing you want to try to profit from.\r\n\r\nIt
    strikes me as pretty common for a designer to find that something he is making
    turns out to look a lot like something else. If one designs a typeface and finds
    out later that it resembles something else, then it comes down to just how similar
    it is, and the designer's intentions. If the similarity was unintentional, then
    I think there is a lot of leeway -- and that's where we depend on everyone being
    ethical and considerate. After all, there are <em>a lot</em> of typefaces out
    there which are similar to others. A lot of applied design, from automobiles to
    architecture, has always had the same problem. When one designs something that
    really works well, one will find that others will model their own work on it.
    I think designers need to have thicker skins about it -- and I certainly think
    every designer has to do their part by not being evil."
  created: '2006-10-08 19:37:13'
- author:
    name: ATF
    picture: 111934
  body: "I think there the design is too similar to Quadraat. There's noting wrong
    with that\u2013so long as it's original work\u2013but surely a designer is better
    off to try create his/her own 'voice'? For example, here's a sample of Halvorsen,
    my new Opentype family  http://www.atf.com.au/font.asp?Font_ID=89   and I will
    gladly state here it's been inspired by the Dutch and germans sans families such
    as Meta and Fedra. But it's not similar, it's come out of my own head. My admiration
    of other faces definitely colours the design, but so does everything we see in
    any given day. It's just a matter of being inspired by, rather than trying to
    emulate.\r\n\r\nMy 2 cents worth.\r\n\r\nWayne, Australian Type Foundry (new arrival)"
  created: '2006-10-09 00:20:37'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I don't know if this is original but I think it's dangerous to look to your
    peers for inspiration. There are so many other opportunities\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-10-09 02:17:35'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I found Didot's stuff here: http://www.optimo.ch/pages/departement/index.php?id_categorie=1&id_font=9\r\n\r\nTypographica
    refers to it being limited in current application for being quite faithful to
    Pierre's original. That's sad, because it looks ahead of our times, in some ways.
    Bookmarked for now. The 'g' is only on of many nuances to contemplate later.\r\n\r\nChoz
    Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-09 03:57:09'
- author:
    name: Pixion
  body: "Paul,\r\n\r\nI think that looking around in the world happens (and should
    happen) in all areas of art and technology. That's why 'movements' develop; new
    concepts / insights / viewpoints pick up momentum and make an area of art move
    forward (->movement) or create technical breakthroughs.\r\n\r\nI don't consider
    myself a peer of Smeijers (that would be way too much honor!), I consider myself
    that student that makes sketches in a museum as Christopher mentioned earlier.\r\n\r\nSebastian"
  created: '2006-10-09 16:09:41'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: "True, I should have mentioned Fran\xE7ois Rappo's Pierre Didot revival too.
    Did he do it before JF Porchez? I seem to remember he did, but haven't checked.
    (My point was only about the funky g, but those Didots really are extraordinary
    faces altogether.) \r\nThe next bold move on the g was by Renner of course, with
    Futura. Both with the deconstructed roman g now to be seen in Architype Renner,
    and with the plain open-tail g, a marvellous simplification of the cursive handwritten
    g, which up to then had only been used for italics. So obvious that we hardly
    notice how new it was then. (Or does someone now of an earlier open g in a sanserif?)
    And the same goes for his round a. Sorry, I feel I'm drifting away from the point
    of this thread. But if you want originality, Futura was original for sure!"
  created: '2006-10-09 21:43:32'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "We could start another thead discussing the intricacies of letterforms? I
    think  the way that italics, display, and other designs influence the mainstream
    standard are fascinating. \r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-09 23:39:15'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Sebastian,\r\n\r\nConsider what different lessons you can learn from developing
    sketches, digitizing outlines, spacing, adjusting and refining a keyword without
    any references. The model of Quadraat, or Palatino, or any existing design can
    be instructive, but only by telling you how one person did one design. In doing
    all the work yourself, you don't refer to their decisions, you make your own,
    and while it's not as easy, it's much likelier to teach you meaningful things
    about proportion, spacing, serifs, etc. \r\n\r\nAnother design can be very inspirational
    and instructive without being used as a crutch. "
  created: '2006-10-10 05:46:05'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Pixion -\r\n\r\nI don't like movements. Ultimately they are counter productive.
    This font was designed in 2000, so in a way you are peers.\r\n\r\nIt's much easier
    for me to frame creativity with music since that is my passion. When Motley Crue
    made it, suddenly there were thousands of hair bands. The same was true when Nirvana
    broke through, thousands of \"alternative\" rock bands. Alternative to what? Now
    there's thousands of \"punk\" bands. Punker than what?\r\n\r\nI think it's good
    to be grounded in the history of your craft/art (whatever you want to call it)
    and leave it at that. I don't have to hear what's going on now to create music,
    as a matter of fact it's a hindrance, it leads to repetitive ideas. For me that's
    the downfall of movements.\r\n\r\nAt a certain point in a career it's time to
    stop being a fan and start playing. That happened to me in my mid 20s. I am not
    a fan of music, except playing it. And when I do listen, it's certainly not to
    anything remotely resembling what I am trying to do.\r\n\r\nI'm a LAlien. We tend
    to isolate.\r\n\r\nBest of Luck!\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-10-10 05:49:25'
- author:
    name: Pixion
  body: "Carl,\r\n\r\nThanks for the advice. Its exactly what I have been doing over
    the weekend (after some navelstaring from reading all the posts in the thread...).
    \r\n\r\nI also have the feeling that Quadraat with all its 'flourishing quirkyness'
    is very rich and complex and difficult to be 'understood' and grasped by a novice,
    so a fresh start is the best for more than one reason.\r\n\r\nSebastian\r\n\r\n(P.S.
    hope you had a good celebration sunday with your new release!)"
  created: '2006-10-10 19:47:28'
date: '2006-10-07 18:39:18'
node_type: forum
title: 'Originality of type design: Where does inspiration become copying?'

---
