---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: "<cite>\"The computer keyboard helped kill shorthand, and now it's threatening
  to finish off [[longhand]].</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>When handwritten essays were introduced
  on the SAT exams for the class of 2006, just 15 percent of the almost 1.5 million
  students wrote their answers in [[cursive]]. The rest? They printed. [[block letters|Block
  letters]].\"</cite> - Wash Post \r\n\r\nThe rest of the article is here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/10/10/AR2006101001475.html\r\n\r\nIt's
  interesting that this is happening even as scripts fonts are perhaps as popular
  as they have ever been. Maybe there is a connection even."
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think there is a definite correlation.  Scripts are looked upon as an artform
    that is \"new\" to this young generation.  With script fonts, they get to avoid
    actual handwriting, yet have the look of the perceived artform.  Old fogies like
    me who had their wrists slapped for poor penmanship and never learned to type,
    have a different outlook:-)\r\n\r\nStudents now take notes on a laptop and \"pass
    notes in class\" using text messaging on cell phones. Handwriting today is mostly
    self-communication and rarely is intended for reading by others.  When this generation
    becomes teachers, handwriting will become something to be studied by archeologists
    and historians instead of school children.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-11 16:30:25'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Though I doubt that this is widely the case, my interest in type design and
    typography (aside from my background in art and design in general) grew out of
    the fact that handwriting has always been painful for me, both physically and
    psychologically. If penmanship instruction were treated as an art rather than
    a reinforcement of obsessive-compulsive behaviors from the earliest levels, I
    might have had a different attitude about it.
  created: '2006-10-11 16:31:34'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I think their point about the SAT is only partially correct. Every single
    teacher I have ever had has told me to NEVER use cursive in an essay or on a test.
    In fact, I would get marked off points because of it. Teachers don't want to have
    to decipher hieroglyphics just to grade a paper.\r\n\r\nNow, whether that is because
    of <cite>their</cite> lack of training, who knows?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-11 16:43:06'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I'm not sure it's lack of training, Dan.  Teachers only have so much time
    to mark papers -- they barely have enough time now to skim through them as it
    is to ensure the student has some sort of grasp of the topic.  Throw in having
    to decipher poor handwriting, and you'd get even more of them quitting.\r\n\r\nLike
    Chris, I'm also in the \"old fogey\" category of having had cursive beaten into
    me at school: mine was pretty bad until I took a course in calligraphy as a teenager,
    and then it actually became legible.\r\n\r\nFor awhile, that is, until I started
    spending way too much time in front of a computer.  ;-)  I think the only reason
    it's still as functional as it is could be because I still edit hard copies, by
    hand, with a red pencil, most of the time.  And I've got an old friend who still
    has the most incredible cursive hand -- a quick note from him looks like a fine
    engraved invitation.  I'm jealous!\r\n\r\nPerhaps it's come down to \"those who
    can write beautiful cursives, do: those who can't, use (insert name of favourite
    cursive font here).\"\r\n\r\nSad....\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-10-11 17:24:34'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Perhaps it\u2019s come down to \u201Cthose who can write beautiful
    cursives, do: those who can\u2019t, use (insert name of favourite cursive font
    here).\"</cite>\r\n\r\nIf only it had ever been as simple as \"those who can do,
    those who can't  are just people who will always have crummy handwriting so let's
    just accept it.\" I'm a big believer that so many people hate cursive because
    they got sick of elementary school teachers complaining about every little loop
    not being perfect, so they just stopped using it as soon as they hit sixth grade.
    It's kind of like Matisse and his drawings\u2013he just stopped showing them to
    people, so nobody saw most of them until after he died."
  created: '2006-10-11 17:40:26'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>I\u2019m a big believer that so many people hate cursive because they
    got sick of elementary school teachers complaining about every little loop not
    being perfect, so they just stopped using it as soon as they hit sixth grade.
    </em>\r\n\r\nMaybe that's more of an indictment about how cursive is taught more
    than anything else.  So long as my teachers could read it, they weren't anal-retentive
    about exact forms.  ;-)\r\n\r\nI was also lucky to have several teachers in high
    school who had unique (well, for the 60's in Canada!) scripts and actually encouraged
    students to inject some individuality into their own handwriting: bet that doesn't
    happen much anymore....\r\n\r\nL."
  created: '2006-10-11 17:47:45'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "And yet, there are many Graphic Designers who refuse to use script fonts
    because, well, they look like fonts. Not script.\r\n\r\nSince we're in the same
    sort of field as lettering artists, we should be saying, \"Yay Lettering Artists!
    Job security!\"\r\n\r\nThe same could go for type-designers.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-11 18:15:55'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Dan, by "they look like fonts. Not script." do you mean that they are just
    too precise?  That's how I'm reading it, and I whole-heartedly agree with you
    from a designer perspective.  When I wrote "those who can't use (font name here)"
    I pretty much meant average users.  :-)
  created: '2006-10-11 18:28:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Maybe there is a connection even.</em>\r\n\r\nMcLuhan's Third Law: Retrieval."
  created: '2006-10-11 18:55:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Nice one Nick! Care to elucidate further?
  created: '2006-10-11 19:54:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I recall that when Signature Software/VLetter were promoting their handwriting
    to TTF fonts they made the claim that the process would improve the author's handwriting,
    via the process of regularization. \r\n\r\n>And yet, there are many Graphic Designers
    who refuse to use script fonts because, well, they look like fonts. Not script.\r\n\r\nBickham
    Script Pro has proven that with enough OT programming you can fool most of the
    people most of the time, even if you can't fool professional designers all of
    the time. \r\n\r\nI agree with Dan's other point. Calligraphers, type designers,
    font vendors and definitely OpenType engineers should see the death of cursive
    as a huge marketing opportunity. People and companies will always need \"handwriting\"
    and those that can provide it will be in high-demand.  \r\n"
  created: '2006-10-11 19:55:10'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: For me, my handwriting is atrocious at best. Not that you can't read it, but
    I mix cursive and plain lettering together. It's also a little sloppy.
  created: '2006-10-11 20:10:22'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i never was comfortable writing cursive, except in russian. i don't know why
    that is.
  created: '2006-10-11 20:15:08'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: I'd heard someone say that Russian cursive is the most illegible written language
    in the northern-hemisphere - maybe that's why it's easy to do - everyone accepts
    that it cannot be read?
  created: '2006-10-11 20:38:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Previous article along these lines from the Guardian...\r\n\r\nhttp://arts.guardian.co.uk/features/story/0,,1709225,00.html "
  created: '2006-10-11 20:41:04'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I\u2019d heard someone say that Russian cursive is the most illegible
    written language in the northern-hemisphere</em>\r\n\r\ninteresting, most native
    Russians that i've known have had beautiful handwriting (which was perfectly legible)."
  created: '2006-10-11 20:42:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "McLuhan's Laws:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.anthonyhempell.com/papers/tetrad/concept.html"
  created: '2006-10-11 21:43:06'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Of course this will also fly in the face of what Gerrit Noordzij wants as
    well - a resurgence of hand writing & a sort of taking of responsibility for it.
    Then again, perhaps 'retrival' is possible for the hand writen form too.
  created: '2006-10-11 22:13:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Stylus or mouse?
  created: '2006-10-11 22:22:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Digital Typography may well be the retreval of handwriting in modern terms.
    Look at text messaging shorthand.  We redifine handwriting into thumb writing:
    \"hope ur ok ru\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: blank
    body: "<cite>Digital Typography may well be the retreval of handwriting in modern
      terms. Look at text messaging shorthand. We redifine handwriting into thumb
      writing: \u201Chope ur ok ru\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nThis would be a great time
      to start designing a handwriting face that renders legibly on small screens
      and has ligatures for 1337speak. It won't be long before we're all hauling around
      a PDA/phone/iPod device that could render it pretty well..."
    created: '2006-10-11 23:01:48'
  created: '2006-10-11 22:25:26'
- author:
    name: adnix
    picture: 109591
  body: "Why is cursive only called \"handwriting\" and not printing, printing being
    viewed as some sort of drooling, in-bred cousin that no one wants to acknowledge?
    Both styles are written by hand, are they not?\r\n\r\nI prefer to print, but even
    then I connect letters in a very cursive-like way. So you could say I curint or
    pursive. Or not.\r\n\r\nIn today's world, cursive and its close relative calligraphy,
    are pretty much relegated to vacation postcards, wedding and other invitations,
    and national constitutions. While cursive feels more personal, that personal feeling
    also hampers its legibility. After all, you can easily read your cursive writing
    because it's written by you. Hand it to someone else, and they might have some
    difficulty (exhibit 1: doctor's prescription notes).\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nI wonder if
    Egyptian teachers 1900 years ago complained that only 15% of their SAT students
    knew how to write in hieroglyphics?"
  created: '2006-10-11 22:40:38'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Does the education system have it backward? They start teaching kids to read
    printed letters and they follow that with learning to write the same block letters.
    Then when they're 8 or so they start learning cursive.\r\n\r\nSpeaking as a parent,
    I've found myself thinking how disadvantaged my kids will be if they don't learn
    to type. But I haven't felt the same impetus to get them to have beautiful penmanship
    even though they are starting to learn cursive in school.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-11 23:41:59'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: acutally, <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/D%27Nealian">the D'Nealian
    writing method</a>, which is one of 2 popular writing methods taught in the US
    teaches a form of writing that builds up to cursive writing.
  created: '2006-10-12 00:09:36'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "You grow up until about 3rd grade only knowing one way to write: Print. You
    always see Mom and Dad scribbling away with their cursive, which looks damn fun,
    but you have no I idea how to do that. Then in 2nd or 3rd grade they throw cursive
    at you, so now you know an \"adult\" alphabet of entirely different characters.
    \r\n\r\nYou use that for a while, until one day your school makes you take a shop/drafting/whatever
    class and then it's back to the same letters you learned in Kindergarten. \r\n\r\nConfused
    the hell out of my handwriting, for sure.\r\n\r\nNo wonder the Modernists wanted
    to simplify our alphabet down to the very basics. "
  created: '2006-10-12 02:34:33'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Yikes: if I had gone through that, I bet mine would have been a mess too.\r\n\r\nInstead,
    I got slapped down at kindergarten because I already had a rudimentary cursive
    hand: one of the benefits of home-schooling, I guess.  My teachers made me print
    and go through all their silly drills anyway, but my handwriting didn't really
    change much until high school, where I picked up the habit of writing Euro numbers
    (with the bar through the 7).\r\n\r\nOh yeah, and then my first serious job after
    university, when I had to hand-sign 40 letters.  \"Ruined\" my signature ever
    since by making it hard to forge.  ;-)\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-10-12 03:32:54'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "Computers didn't kill cursive handwriting, superior pen technology did. It
    just took this long for the zombie to stop moving.\r\n\r\nFrom our perspective,
    it's nice that it created more possible variants of letterforms. But from a practical
    perspective, what we're looking at is a system derived from the artifacts of very
    messy writing, adapted over the years for the limitations of quills and nibs,
    and codified into bizarrely rigid rules for equally rigid schoolteachers. They
    drum these rules into modern kids who, with their graphite pencils and ball-point
    pens, have no idea what is so great about not lifting the pen from the paper that
    justifies suddenly making writing so complicated.\r\n\r\nI knew something was
    up in third grade, when the edict \"NO LOOPS!\" dominated our cursive exercises.
    Having been taught the previous year to write with looped ascenders by another
    teacher, I was already getting the idea that I was there to humor the whims of
    authority rather than to learn anything of real value.\r\n\r\nToday I have handwriting
    that comes in serif, semi-serif, sans, and italic. I can write in legible semi-serif
    faster than I could write in genuine cursive. I'm not even sure I remember off
    the top of my head exactly how all of those crazy-pretzel capitals are supposed
    to go."
  created: '2006-10-12 09:33:48'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'My parent''s generation (now in their 60''s) seems to be the last of the
    cursive writers. Even though we we were all taught cursive growing up, I don''t
    really see anyone using it at all. '
  created: '2006-10-12 15:28:33'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I remember watching the adults write & read cursive & I even went so far as
    to attempt it without instruction - of course I just got scibbles. Even though
    I sympathize with the reaction some people have had to arbitrairy rules set down
    by dogmatic teachers; I still think cursive is wonderful and expresive and ultimately
    worthy. Then again I had beautiful handwritting to look at as a kid. That probably
    has something to do with it. And I have to admit, mine is not so wonderful.
  created: '2006-10-12 16:06:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Well Darrell, I guess that puits me inyour parents' generation :-)\r\n\r\nGen
    \"C\" (for cursive)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-12 16:54:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I was taught cursive (in 1960), but the only reason I still use it is that
    I took calligraphy classes around 1980, for professional development as a type
    designer/typographer.
  created: '2006-10-12 17:21:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Doesn't Steve Jobs bang on about the importance of calligraphy - maybe he'd
    be willing to sponsor a publictiy campaign...\r\n\r\nHello I'm Type\r\nHello I'm
    Cursive \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2006-10-12 17:50:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Jobs likes cursive because of all the connectivity it comes with right out
    of the box :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-12 18:27:14'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I can see the ads now.\r\n\r\nType: Look at all these little pieces I have!
    \ If I can find the magnetized sheet in another box, maybe I can actually do something
    useful.\r\n\r\nCursive: Wow.  I've got the wind in my hair, the sun in my eyes,
    and I've just produced the entire works in Shakespeare in 127 different languages.\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-10-12 18:32:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Business schools taught cursive script in the 19th century, because it was
    needed in bookkeeping, etc. Now there is no practical reason for the majority
    of the population to know it, which is also why art, music, and sport get such
    short shrift in high school.\r\n\r\nBut this is not to say that the present system
    condemns most students to be only consumers of culture, because there are new
    media, and who knows where \"user generated content\" will lead; blogging is a
    creative, interactive literary medium, then flickr, then youtube..."
  created: '2006-10-12 18:46:44'
- author:
    name: claaspb
    picture: 111377
  body: It seems to me that this is mostly an American thing. I've grown up in Germany
    and now live in Denmark and at 22 I wouldn't call myself old-school, but I and
    most people I know use cursive (at least to some extent) for everyday writing.
    In fact, neatly written block letters, with a bit of childish awkwardness because
    they aren't as neat as "real" printing and not quite as fluid as handwriting,
    especially over longer passages  are something I ultimately associate with the
    time when I was an exchange student at a High School near Philadelphia, PA.
  created: '2006-10-13 10:33:34'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"which is also why art, music, and sport get such short shrift in high school.\"\r\n\r\nSports
    has never suffered in the midwest of the US. Granted, the arts have. Alas, I don't
    think that's quite in the same camp as to why Cursive is falling out of favor...it's
    just that people do not use it. My generation was taught it, but no one I know
    uses it. The computer hasn't helped it survive either. It's just time for it to
    go, it seems.\r\n\r\nAnd you bring up a good point, Nick. Perhaps gap in the system
    where cursive once fit in is now replaced with knowing HTML and smilies and LOL/OMG/WTF
    texting 'language'. ;o) "
  created: '2006-10-13 14:41:17'
- author:
    name: peter_bain
  body: "-I'm teaching a bit of cursive as part of my Digital Lettering class. It's
    different from how type works, and design students can learn from it without taking
    an entire semester of handlettering or calligraphy. It would be nice if cursive
    could live on outside of art school, though.\r\n\r\n-Many schoolteachers, even
    in past pre-computer decades, had poor handwriting instruction themselves. See
    comments on this by Rosemary Sassoon and others.\r\n\r\n-American handwriting
    advocates point out italic can learned without joining, and then made cursive
    later. Plus, no loops to get in the way.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-13 16:24:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Plus, no loops to get in the way.\" \r\nand might have saved me a few whacks
    across the knuckles with a ruler as a child :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-13 17:00:56'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "As well as picking up the nickname as \"The Claw\"?  ;-)\r\n\r\n(One of my
    teachers did that to one kid so much that he had the clutched, bloody hand from
    time to time.)\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-10-13 17:10:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Fully cursive speedball writing is the hardest thing to read, I figure.\r\nIf
    you flip (mirror) all kinds of writing, it is the hardest to read, even for an
    accomplished reader. At least with a stressed (broad pen) nib, fully cursive,
    the stressing gives some cues as to which strokes are part of the letter and which
    are joins.\r\n\r\nIf software could be created to read cursive speedball script,
    that would be very useful in discovering much about the reading process. What
    is the state of the art on this? Is it true that OCR software only works for discrete
    letters?\r\n\r\nI wonder if being able to write cursively has an effect on how
    fluently one is able to read it -- I mean, greater than for printed type. Have
    any studies been done on this?"
  created: '2006-10-13 17:27:35'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>This would be a great time to start designing a handwriting face that
    renders legibly on small screens and has ligatures for 1337speak.</em>\r\n\r\nHmmm.
    Can I borrow this idea?\r\n\r\nI'm not in Chris's or Linda's generation. Thank
    goodness. The last signifigant memory I have of Penmanship class, which was a
    tiny slot within Spelling, was of our Fourth grade teacher leacturing us on how
    we would all be getting whacked thouroughly for the forms of our script, if it
    had been an earlier time. She lamented that that avenue was lost. She then went
    on to point out that she would have been no less sparing on me, though 'that time'
    would have had my functional hand tied behind my back.\r\n\r\nNo wonder its a
    lost art. So is bridenapping.\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-16 04:58:54'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">No wonder its a lost art. So is bridenapping.\r\n\r\nNot if you live in
    Salt Lake City...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.comcast.net/news/national/index.jsp?cat=DOMESTIC&fn=/2006/10/03/491198.html&cvqh=itn_parentsbride
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-16 05:59:35'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Even when people use their finest \"printing\" hand, you can still see a
    bit of degeneration of letterforms. Is this the next evolution of the Roman alphabet?
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-16 09:18:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Si, I see the Boz is gone, the Seahawks obviously won :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-16 13:19:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Yep, the Boz is gone, replaced with Deion Branch's Neon Glove.\r\n\r\nTook
    a last second 54yd field goal to beat the Rams - I think our <A HREF=\"http://images.nfl.com/u/photos/pl_704265.jpg\">field
    goal coach</A> had something to do with it. "
  created: '2006-10-16 18:24:53'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Yeah, saw that play.  I turned to my sweetie and said \"well, at least Si
    will be happy....\"  ;-)\r\n\r\nChoz, you're right about having your left hand
    tied behind you back in the old fart days.  I was actually pretty good with both
    hands until I hit grade seven and had a doctrinairian who was strict, and that
    was the end of my days of writing well on both sides.  (I do think it has helped
    my typing though!).\r\n\r\nLinda"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "\r\nYeeeeee-e-e-sh. As I recalled that last night, I was somewhat hoping
      she had been pulling our legs, and we were just too scared then to get the joke.
      Nope, our fear of her was rightous.\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine
      Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
    created: '2006-10-17 03:09:29'
  created: '2006-10-16 18:47:07'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Well, at least I was discouraged and not sent into bondage.  My parents would
    have been quite vocal in their displeasure had she gotten physical about enforcing
    her views.\r\n\r\nI've spent part of my day voraciously devouring Jessica Helfand's
    \"Reinventing the Wheel\" (ISBN 1-56898-338-7, hardcover): if you want to see
    some amazing typography, this book is worth finding. Some utterly incredible photographs....\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-10-17 03:57:10'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Winterhouse books are beautiful. You just want to grab them and stare at
    the pages over and over.\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-17 04:14:39'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "It's the first one of their's that I've owned -- I think I'm going to have
    to check out their website....  ;-)\r\n\r\nL."
  created: '2006-10-17 15:08:36'
date: '2006-10-11 16:17:21'
node_type: forum
title: Death of Cursive

---
