---
author:
  name: jasper7777
  picture: 111931
body: "Does anyone know of any studies done on [[legibility]] that show that\r\nBody
  copy larger than 9, 10, 11 pt (like for instance 12 point Helvetica) \r\nare actually
  harder to read? (I prefer reading text that is between 8-10 pt),\r\n\r\nIf I am
  designing a layout to a book or magazine I would use 8 pt if\r\neditors/clients
  would let me. Leaving more room for photos, captions, to\r\nbreath. I've recently
  been forced to use 12 point type and it  looks so\r\nhorsey to me.\r\n\r\nMy theory
  is if its body copy is larger than 11pt its actually harder \r\nRead because as
  your eyes sweep over the lines of text you can\u2019t see\r\nAs many words at one
  time. I also think it might be harder to read\r\nLarger body copy because when its
  too big you start seeing individual\r\nLetterforms instead of words.  (They say
  that speed readers see 5 or 6 \r\nWords at a time). \r\n\r\n(I am hoping there has
  been a test that confirms this\r\n\u2014aesthetically working with larger sizes
  \r\nof body copy always makes the over all layout look clunky\u2014 I want to \r\nbe
  able to tell people that the idea that larger body copy is easy to read\r\nis a
  fallacy.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "You are absolutely right. When type becomes too large, the number of words
    on each line becomes too small. This  means that the eye has to spend a lot of
    time jumping from line-end to line-start instead of actually reading. Also, almost
    \ all (i can't think of any who don't) typefaces have a limited range of size
    in which they work well. Typefaces for body text usually don't work well when
    set too large, they tend to become unelegant and too low-contrast (when using
    a serif typeface). The opposite is the case when setting titling typefaces too
    small \u2013 the small details become too small and may disappear in print.\r\n\r\nBut
    when it comes to determining the \"ultimate body copy\" size, that's just impossible.
    If you line up a variety of typefaces in the same size, say 11pt, they will all
    look different in size due to their different x-heights.\r\n\r\ngood luck on convincing
    your editors :-)\r\n\r\nalex"
  created: '2006-10-12 08:46:25'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "What font will you use, I attach a sample that shows two typefaces in the
    same body size.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/xh_3780.gif]"
  created: '2006-10-12 14:07:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I think the most important point (!) is that point size alone means very
    little. \r\n\r\nFirst of all x-height tells you more about legibility, as mentioned.
    But also length of line and leading makes a crucial difference. Also sans vs serif.
    \r\n\r\nI know some people get in their heads that point size is everything. I
    think the only way to disabuse them of that idea is to show them several side-by-side
    versions of type actually set in a paragraph. \r\n\r\nThat being said I think
    that the most common mistake of those who don't work with type is that \"Make
    It Bigger\" (title of Paula Sher's book) solves all problems. On the other hand,
    I do think that graphic designers sometimes make the opposite mistake. Because
    they want the overall page to look nice, they make the type too small or low contrast
    (colors, reversed, etc.) for good readability. You can definitely sin in both
    directions. \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2006-10-12 14:20:55'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "There is an advice from <a href=\"http://www.rnib.org.uk/xpedio/groups/public/documents/code/InternetHome.hcsp\">RNIB</a>
    which claims that 12 pt is easier for the vision-impaired to read. However despite
    this claim <em>\"RNIB\u2019s clear print guidelines are based on our experience
    of the issues over many years, advice from experts in the field and evidence including
    recent research into fonts and type size.\"</em> it doesn't say what the recent
    research was or who the experts in the field were, unfortunately many clients
    just seem to read the 12pt bit and don't bother to consider the rest, like, for
    example, the part about the x-height being 2\u20132.3mm high.\r\nhttp://www.rnib.org.uk/xpedio/groups/public/documents/publicwebsite/public_printdesign.hcsp\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-12 15:04:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I've been wondering about this topic again, mostly because I'm reading "The
    Grid." Does anyone know why Hurlburt set the text in the book so large (It looks
    like 14 points)?
  created: '2006-10-12 15:47:44'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "What is the set width? Depending on that value, 12pt might be just fine and
    8pt too small. \r\n\r\nPoint size is an increasingly meaningless number, x-height
    and cap-height are more important. \r\n\r\nWho is the audience? If it is for persons
    45 and older, it better be a little larger than a touch too small.\r\n\r\nJust
    remember one person's horsey type is another persons minimum requirement. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-12 17:14:29'
- author:
    name: jasper7777
    picture: 111931
  body: "I wish I could start this thread over and re-phrase my question. \r\n\r\nYes,
    point size is a meaningless number. Let's be specific-- I'm currently working
    with Adobe Garamond pro on a book about Napier New Zealand-- I was told to use
    12 point by editors-- but it looked huge and awkward, no room for white space,
    everything looked cramped on the A4 size pages-- \r\n\r\nI also have to put in
    \ photos and captions. When I reduce the point size down to 10 on 13 Garamond--
    the two page spread looks so much better. (9pt looks even better) \r\n\r\nAs for
    audience -- it's not the visually impaired, or the elderly, or children-- its
    meant for a very general audience ages 20-40.\r\n\r\nSo, if you want to do a test---
    a typical spread (two A4 size pages) in this book has 1100-1300 words, with 4
    photos with captions 40-60 words. There is a title, subtitle. Try designing a
    good looking spread (two A4 pages)-- with 12 point Garamond-- then do it with
    10 pt -- see which one looks horsey. See which one is easier to read.\r\n(What
    you are going to find is that on spreads with 1300 words with 12 pt type you will
    have to reduce the leading to get all the words on the page- it begins to look
    amateurish).\r\n\r\nBut aesthetics aside....\r\n-- The whole point of my post--
    really, is to find out if there has been any study that body copy set to match
    the size of  12 pt garamond is not easier to read than type set to the size of
    \ 9 or 10 pt Adobe Garamond pro. (for people who are not vision impaired, over
    the age of 60 or under the age of 8.)\r\n\r\nI would love to know if there is
    a \r\ntest similar to the test on this site (which is on legibility of web fonts)\r\non
    type size.\r\nhttp://psychology.wichita.edu/surl/usabilitynews/81/legibility.htm\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-14 01:53:16'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I'm going to grossly misquote Gill and say that \"familiarity is everything.\"
    Europeans don't seem to have nearly as much trouble with sans type, because they're
    used to it. People who only read cheap paperback novels don't have any trouble
    with eight-point type. Those with bad vision have no trouble with 14+ point type
    because its all they ever see. Many of my friends are lawyers, and they whinge
    about reading anything that isn't set in 12 point Times New Roman with with double-spaced
    lines and extra spaces after periods.\r\n\r\nDon't worry about studies or rules
    for type size. Worry about what your audience is expecting and how you can use
    their expectations to manipulate them."
  created: '2006-10-14 02:16:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "You're not the first to ask for the results of \"readability\" tests to satisfy
    a client (or oneself). it must be one of the most-asked questions on Typophile.
    \ Why do typographers and their clients need to be reassured by some banal tests
    made by scientists who have no feeling for typography that they know what they're
    doing? We all know the tests are meaningless (note Alessandro's sample). Whose
    eyes are we pulling the wool over? The more this goes on, the more we dig our
    own grave. If we let our clients (or ourselves) buy into this bullshit that the
    the quality of typography can be measured, they won't need typographers, but will
    get everything set in Arial or Comic Sans (whatever is \"proved\" most legible)
    in the \"optimum\" setting. Why do we need authorities to justify our decisions?
    Isn't the designer the authority? What is the point of developing a refined sensibility
    if no-one trusts it? If that's the case, the typographer is a low-grade technician
    who can soon be replaced by a piece of software.\r\n\r\nHowever, why not prepare
    a few variants, and test them on a suitable focus group? That's much better than
    relying on vague generalization. "
  created: '2006-10-14 02:36:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Well said, Nick!
  created: '2006-10-14 02:43:21'
- author:
    name: jasper7777
    picture: 111931
  body: "I don't think what Nick said was well said at all. Is relying on a typographers
    opinion better than relying on a well conducted study?  Nick asked, \"Why do typographers
    and their clients need to be reassured by \"banal\" tests?\" Noone wants to be
    reassured by a \"banal\" test\u2014 they want to be reassured by well conducted
    test. Can there be a valid test?- not if the attitude is that all tests are banal.
    Nick says the tests are all meaningless\u2014 and uses Allesandro's test as an
    example-- If thats Nick's idea of a test-- then no wonder you think tests are
    banal.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-14 04:18:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"anyone know why Hurlburt set the text in the book so large\"\r\n\r\nHe
    needed to fill the book?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-14 05:02:12'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Jasper, I don't think that all tests are bad or that advancing our knowlege
    of type through science is a bad idea; but as far as I have seen ( which not far
    enough I will admit ) there is a massive massive gap between what has been done
    with testing so far & what type designers ( or type users ) can actualy find broadly
    useful. My take on what Nick said is not 'screw science' - it's that there is
    no point in waiting around with our hands in our pockets for science to catch
    up and guide us.  As he said <cite>' What is the point of developing a refined
    sensibility if no-one trusts it? '</cite>. He is bang on there. Plenty of type
    designer do know what they are doing. And how do they do that great work? A: They
    use that sensibility that Nick mentioned. When you can point to a well desined
    and typographically sensible test or two, by all means let us know! But don't
    expect us to hold our breath in the meantime. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-14 07:08:27'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Hi Jasper, my name is with one 'l' and two 's', don\u2019t put four dots
    after \u201Caesthetics aside\u201D, my sample is not Nick\u2019s idea of a test
    if I can speak for him, I think what he wrote rocks, and why you don\u2019t question
    the A4 format for example, or why Adobe Garamond and not ITC. If you are interested
    I have got some links on legibility here : http://www.as8.it/edu/bibliography-TD.html\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-14 11:49:17'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Nick wrote:\r\n\u201CWhy do we need authorities to justify our decisions?
    Isn\u2019t the designer the authority?\u201D\r\n\r\nNick, I think the reader is
    the authority. For physiological, emotional, and experiential reasons, some designs
    are better than others. One designer may choose to use 9/10 Garamond while another
    uses 10/12. If the goal is to make it as quick as possible for readers to read
    this information, can both designs be equally optimal?\r\n\r\nReading tests shouldn\u2019t
    be banal or used to justify anyone\u2019s decisions, but rather to learn more
    about how people read. This knowledge can be used to improve designs. Test do
    not replace the role of the designer in any way. Testing can only be used to study
    existing reading conditions, but improving the experience beyond what already
    exists takes creativity. All design involves creative problem solving which cannot
    be automated.\r\n\r\nMiles Tinker ran many studies investigating optimal type
    sizes. For most typefaces he found that reading speed peaked at 11 point and was
    slower when you used smaller or larger text. For some fonts (I believe those with
    larger x-heights) reading speed peaked at 10 point. See Tinker\u2019s book Legibility
    of Print for more details.\r\n\r\nThis assumes a reader with normal visual abilities.
    With some vision impairments, it is not possible to read 8-12 point text sizes
    and larger text is required. While reading is impossible without a much larger
    size, it does accompany a loss in reading speed. Optimal text size is a natural
    consequence of the density of photoreceptors in the fovea (part of the retina
    used for reading).\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-14 16:41:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: You know, this design does a great job of reminding me of the one thing I
    really like about designing in XHTML/CSS. As long as I create an accommodating
    layout and don't set the font size in pixels, the user can just increase or decrease
    the font size to to whatever makes him comfortable. That's just so awesome it
    hurts.
  created: '2006-10-14 17:14:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Kevin,\r\nTinkers studies are not very recent.  The nature of both printing,
    type design, have gone through several changes since then.  What readers today
    have gotten accustomed to reading has also changed.  There is a lot more smaller
    type being read than their used to be. I don't pretend to know if any of this
    changes Tinker's conclusions for today's reader but I sure would like someone
    to test it.\r\nOn another readability issue, much has been made of eye movements
    as a measure of good readability but I have a problem in the translation from
    percent of difference of eye movement to percent of enhanced or decreased readability.
    I have yet to see a comparative measure which gives me a usable comparison in
    reading speed and reading comprehension. An example might be using today's Garamond
    Premier Pro at 9 point vs. 10 point with the same characters per line and same
    proportion of leading, how much faster in pages per hour and how much more comprehension
    (however you can really measure that) am I gaining or losing by changing the point
    size one point?\r\nThis will tell me something to help make design decisions.
    \ If the difference is so small that it is inconsequential in a given reading
    situation then why not opt for the more efficient use of space?  Readability is
    always paired with efficiency in the decision making process.  The readability
    that interests me is when it affects the exact situation it is being used in,
    not just a more generalized \"bigger is better\" or \"serif is better\" thinking
    which gets seized upon rather than what the actual studies conclusion intended.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-14 17:22:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">For most typefaces he found that reading speed peaked at 11 point and was
    slower when you used smaller or larger text. \r\n\r\nThat agrees with my intuitive
    feeling, if we take an average ascender to be 1.6 bigger than the x height, and
    the type to fill 95% + of the body size.\r\n\r\nKevin, I think that you could
    refine these numbers if you would use my suggested measure of reading comfort:
    rate of decrease in comprehension with time :).  You could also measure boldness
    (% of black to white), presence of serifs and amount of leading--all of which
    I think will have a measureable influence. And letter spacing and measure. Those
    are 6 variables, and though a lot would tell us most of what we need to know.
    \r\n\r\n\r\nFor what it's worth, I do think that below 11 point Adobe Garamond
    Pro is less readable, as it has a small x-height. However, it will probably require
    less leading at 11 or 12 point, so it may end up being economical enough for you.
    \ "
  created: '2006-10-14 19:56:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In one ear, out the other.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-14 22:33:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" Is relying on a typographers opinion better than relying on a well conducted
    study?\"\r\nOpinion of What? Study of what? In my opinion, if you have both pertaining
    to your problem, it's best, (especially if they agree:). But if you have to choose
    between typographic practice, and a study of something else, other than what you
    need a study of, well, I'd go with the practice. And on the other hand, if I had
    a study of what I was looking for, and typographic practice of something else,
    well, then, I'd go read the study carefully to make sure, because one bad move
    in a study can muddy the results beyond belief, so to speak.\r\n\r\n\"Does anyone
    know of any studies [of] legibility that show...Body copy larger than 9, 10, 11
    pt [] are actually harder to read? (I prefer reading text that is between 8-10
    pt)\"\r\nWe did a preference study at the Poynter Institute more than 10 years
    ago that showed readers preferred type set in newspapers that was designed for
    setting between 8.5 and 11 pt., and set at those sizes, not smaller or larger.
    Not all of the types we tested were designed for such use, and those did not win,
    but they did better than expected. All of the subjects were expecting \"newspaper
    text\", (the paper being a dead giveaway), and they were all adults, so it wasn't
    a test of ALL LEGIBILITY, or even all fonts, or all users.\r\n\r\nBut the results
    allowed us to see how to draw some very readable faces, for print, that if sales
    are any indication, which I'm sure they are not, are very readable, i.e. beyond
    legible perhaps. We are planning now to do the same thing for screen types, building
    a test-bed of fonts, and sending them home with users to try out. I'm arguing
    for both obtrusive and non-obtrusive recording of the choices, but we'll see.
    It's all very expensive, and you need to get it right from initial input to the
    final adjustments of claims. Just like typeface design, if everything isn't right,
    it useless."
  created: '2006-10-14 22:41:44'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: http://www.designwritingresearch.org/essays/science.html
  created: '2006-10-14 22:42:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Poynter Institute more than 10 years ago that showed readers preferred
    type set in newspapers that was designed for setting between 8.5 and 11 pt., and
    set at those sizes, not smaller or larger.\"\r\n\r\nThat is intriguing and is
    what I would have thought modern day readers would think.  Is this study available
    to us? \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-14 23:16:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'In connection with the research on newspaper types that David cites, I think
    it important context that they usually have large x heights and are set in narrow
    columns. This might explain why the sizes below 11 point are good also, an apparent
    contradiction to the study Kevin cites. '
  created: '2006-10-15 00:17:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The Tinker studies were begun in the 1930s I believe. There has been a lot
    of water over the dam since then.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-15 02:11:17'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "As one with a little experience in book design for the New Zealand market,
    I feel compelled to say that the designer's 'authority' is (unfortunately) a moot
    point in this context. \r\n\r\nYour editors, Jasper, are telling you to use the
    12 pt Garamond because they've previously had a good experience with that particular
    spec. and they're just going with what they know. If you try and railroad them
    into accepting your preference - with or without some other authority - it's likely
    to be counterproductive.\r\n\r\nYou don't mention the other attributes of the
    spec. but notice how everyone else does; without the associated values that make
    up the rest of the appearance of the text block, arguing about 12pt or not is
    a little abstract.\r\n\r\nI can suggest three possible approaches; \r\n\r\n1.
    Offer them options; do a truckload of comparison settings (whole pages) with variations
    of line length (set width), leading and tracking. Dig out the rule-of-thumb reminders
    about optimum line length and leading values. Be prepared to make minute variations
    and annotate everything so you know at a glance what the variables are. Don't
    forget to consider paragraph indentation and/or spacing and how many lines you'll
    achieve for each page. Sit down with the editors and discuss the results as openly
    as possible.\r\n\r\n2. Do a word count and work out the average page yield. Calculate
    the overall extent of the book at 12pt. Do the same calculation based on your
    preference for the smaller type size; then try doing it again for an interim value
    between the two. Try and figure out if it makes a difference in terms of the print
    production costs associated with the book.\r\n\r\n3. Research other titles on
    Napier, preferably by competitor publishing houses here in NZ. Are they using
    12pt Garamond too? Try and find examples of whatever won last years NZ book awards.
    What will be this title's point of difference from all the other books?\r\n\r\nGood
    luck with it."
  created: '2006-10-15 12:40:44'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Nice Post Ben! You have taken a pracatical approach rather than a theoretical
    one and also pushed Jasper to look for himself ( and to get his editors to look
    as well ). Even for an expert (who aught to be respected) collaboration is where
    it''s at. And collaboration; if you prepare for it, can foster that respect. '
  created: '2006-10-16 00:20:19'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "ChrisL wrote:\r\n> Tinkers studies are not very recent.\r\n\r\nTinker\u2019s
    legibility research program was huge, carried out over 4 decades (1920s through
    the 1950s) on many thousands of readers. It would be great if someone would undertake
    the project to retest his most famous findings to see if anything has changed
    since Tinker\u2019s time. My guess is that the text size finding hasn\u2019t changed
    because it\u2019s a result of photoreceptor density, not personal experience.
    In one of the Tinker & Patterson books they reports on a survey of typographic
    variables like point size and leading used in different kinds of publications
    (novels, newspapers, textbooks, etc.). I was surprised at how common it was to
    see text sizes as small as 6 point.\r\n\r\nChrisL wrote:\r\n> On another readability
    issue, much has been made of eye movements as a \r\n> measure of good readability
    but I have a problem in the translation from percent \r\n> of difference of eye
    movement to percent of enhanced or decreased readability.\r\n\r\nEye tracking
    measures are similar to reading speed measures, but provide additional detail
    such as the amount of time spent fixating on each word and the frequency of regressive
    saccades. Most studies look for a difference either in reading speed or comprehension.
    When measuring reading speed, the material used is simple enough that readers
    will understand it with full comprehension and comprehension questions are used
    to confirm this. Else more difficult material is used and the amount of time spent
    reading is controlled (e.g. you are given 5 minutes to read an article). This
    style of reading test is frequently used in U.S. college admission tests. Combinations
    of reading speed and comprehension are rarely used because they the scores need
    to be combined, and debated if it better to read an article in 4 minutes with
    80% comprehension or 5 minutes with 90% accuracy?\r\n\r\nDavid wrote:\r\n> We
    did a preference study at the Poynter Institute more than 10 years ago that \r\n>
    showed readers preferred type set in newspapers that was designed for setting
    \r\n> between 8.5 and 11 pt., and set at those sizes, not smaller or larger.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    not necessarily surprised that people said they preferred smaller text sizes for
    newspapers. It wouldn\u2019t be unreasonable at all for people to desire a smaller
    text size than the one that allows for fast reading. Many people read newspapers
    by only reading the front page of each section. By asking for smaller text sizes,
    the readers asking for more information on that first page. I don\u2019t see this
    as being in conflict with the reading speed data.\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-16 00:25:38'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Not too long ago I also had a similar problem. The director was convinced
    that sans was more legible and that bigger was better. I preferred my 9pt Warnock.
    So, I obliged her with 3 spreads in each. She physically recoiled from the squishy
    sans layout and agreed wholeheartedly to my Warnock. I compromised and went up
    to 9.5pt.\r\n\r\n(victory!)\r\n\r\nK."
  created: '2006-10-19 19:34:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, I think the reader is the authority. </em>\r\n\r\nKevin, you're
    mistaking the user's degree of satisfaction with a professional service for actual
    professional expertise in providing satisfaction.\r\n\r\nFor instance, you may
    have a subjective opinion of whether a doctor's treatment has effected your health,
    but this does not make you an authority on medicine.\r\n\r\n<em>Optimal text size
    is a natural consequence of the density of photoreceptors in the fovea</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    doesn't even make sense. There is no such thing as optimal text size, because
    there is no way to measure text size. It is quite simply not a scientific concept.
    The best that can be determined is that easy-reading text should be between 8
    and 12 pt size, which is so vague and useless a statement as to be a self-evident
    platitude, like saying gloves should not be too tight or too loose.\r\n\r\nIt
    is not physiology which best determines the text size for a particular setting,
    but a typographic understanding of the many variables involved in reading it,
    such as the reader demographic, the paper stock, the publishing genre (which affects
    the reading environment), the document page size, language, author, paragraph
    length, and of course the many typographic variables other than size, such as
    typeface, leading, measure (line length), tracking, alignment style, gutter and
    margin width. "
  created: '2006-10-19 21:40:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Kevin, you\u2019re mistaking the user\u2019s degree of satisfaction with
    a professional service for actual professional expertise in providing satisfaction.\r\n\r\nNick,
    your analogy is not sound. Kevin reports that \"reading speed\" peaked at 11 point.
    This is not a subjective self-report of satisfaction, but an objective measure.
    In science, the results of objective tests are the authority. They trump scientists'
    opinions and your opinion and mine. \r\n\r\nA closer analogy would be to Doctors'
    opinions of the effectiveness of a procedure and the results of objective and
    extensive double-blind tests of the actual impact on patients. The results are
    more authoritative than the opinions. Of course there can be bias, poor methodology,
    and cheating in the tests. But these can be checked  for by repeating experiments. "
  created: '2006-10-19 22:26:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Time to \"repeat the experiments\" using modern type and conditions.  Tinker
    tested Kabel against Garamond #3, I think we have come a long way since then.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-20 01:51:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "At one point Science told us that the World was flat and that Autism was
    caused by cold-unloving mothers.  Later experiments proved these to be wrong.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-20 01:55:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Science told us\r\n\r\nWhat scientific research actually shows and what
    is claimed in the name of science are often very far apart, particularly in the
    fields of medicine and health. \r\n\r\nDrawing conclusions from experimentation
    is not easy unless there are very well articulated theories and great tests. \r\n\r\n>Time
    to \u201Crepeat the experiments\u201D using modern type and conditions.\r\n\r\nBy
    all means, new tests. However, in order to justify new experiments, I am sure
    that Kevin or another researcher would want to have a strong reason to expect
    different results. What is different about modern and type and conditions that
    would lead us to expect a different result? Or what was defective in the methodology
    of the earlier research? \r\n\r\nAs I wrote, a new measure--comfort in reading,
    as measured by decrease in comprehension with time--might reveal a lot of information
    that reading speed alone doesn't tell us. So I would like the 6 variables I mentioned
    tested this way, as well as type size--or preferably, x height size. "
  created: '2006-10-20 02:13:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, your analogy is not sound. Kevin reports that \u201Creading speed\u201D
    peaked at 11 point. This is not a subjective self-report of satisfaction, but
    an objective measure. </em>\r\n\r\nSo the the reader is the authority by dint
    of performing in a reading speed test? That's even more ludicrous.\r\n\r\n<em>In
    science, the results of objective tests are the authority.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd not
    the subjects of the test. So you agree with me.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 06:37:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"Don't you touch my Art, bitch!\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 06:54:17'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "I agree completely with William\u2019s comments about objective measures.
    Repeatable objective measures are more interesting that individual opinion. As
    Chris points out, it was once people\u2019s subjective opinion that that the world
    was flat. But it\u2019s difficult to rectify this theory with objective data that
    the sun rises earlier and falls earlier in New York than Los Angeles. I don\u2019t
    think there is any objective data that supports that flat world theory.\r\n\r\nI
    think there are other possibilities for measuring the reading experience, including
    William\u2019s proposal and a measure that I proposed at ATypI Helsinki (which
    will be published soon); but I would claim that reading speed is the primary measure
    of legibility. If I\u2019m given the choice between reading an article with two
    typographic treatments and told that I\u2019ll read one version 5% faster without
    a loss in comprehension, I\u2019m going to choose that version.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 19:55:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I don\u2019t think there is any objective data that supports that flat
    world theory\"\r\n\r\nOf course not now.  What was thought to be objective data
    centuries ago was that sometimes ships went out to sea and never returned.  The
    falacious but nevertheless agreed upon wisdom of that time was that they fell
    off the edge of the Earth. My point was that what we may now think of as objective
    data may at some point in the future be thought of as wrong.  This will never
    occur if we don't question past measurements or view things from \"outside the
    box\".  I am just saying don't lock up our minds with absolutes so much that we
    never look for things we were unable to see before.  Is Pluto a planet now? Was
    it thought to be a planet last year? Did the astronomers quit doing science because
    they had \"objective data\" that pluto was a planet? No, they kept looking.  Let's
    keep looking too.\r\n\r\nKevin: Where does the \"5% faster\" figure come from
    or are you just pulling a number out of the air for sake of argument?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-20 20:40:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u201CDon\u2019t you touch my Art, bitch!\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nWell, if
    they want to discredit my expertise as \"personal opinion\" they'll have to do
    a more convincing job of it. Let's see those \"repeatable objective measures\"
    in action! However, I suspect that the description of the experiment would have
    to be so typographically precise, in order to get the same results, that generalization
    would be impossible. If Scientist A uses Adobe Garamond and Scientist B uses ITC
    Garamond...\r\n\r\n<em>As Chris points out, it was once people\u2019s subjective
    opinion that that the world was flat.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd it is still people's subjective
    experience that the sun rises and sets. If you imagine the earth spinning, it
    makes for dizzyness."
  created: '2006-10-20 20:48:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Deaf & Deafer.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 20:50:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Just don't show them your handwriting, or let them measure your cranium.
  created: '2006-10-20 21:38:24'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"At one point Science told us that the World was flat...\"\r\nand then it
    took a while but they determined that is was round. But then they proved it was
    a sphere, and then later an ovoid shape and now, it's a shrinking ovoid shape.\r\n\r\n\u201Creading
    speed\u201D peaked at 11 point. This is not a subjective self-report of satisfaction,
    but an objective measure.\"\r\nBut it is an objective measure only of 11 point
    plus, a long string of other defined variables from illumintation to type style.
    It could easily be repeated with a slightly younger average age and 10.5, if available,
    would win. I think, that it's only a truely objective measure when you know exactly
    what will make 10.5 win, or 11 lose. It's a truely valuable objective measure
    when all the variables have been published for further research to build on, variable
    by variable."
  created: '2006-10-21 00:11:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">an objective measure only of 11 point plus, a long string of other defined
    variables from illumintation to type style.\r\n\r\nHow best to interpret the past
    results is open to question, but it sounds to me like they are significant, though
    they need a lot of refinement. I agree about the need for further variables--I
    mentioned above six or seven to be tested. "
  created: '2006-10-21 02:24:31'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "If I go to a baker & tell him that I have proved with some sort of test that
    'Brioche is the best bread & here are my 3 variables I tested on' I will be laughed
    at. And rightly so.\r\n\r\nBakers don't need scientist to tell them how to make
    bread. Of course Science can be used to find out lots of interesting things about
    bread. But before a scientist studies bread they should get to know bread from
    the Bakers point of view. As far as I understand it that 'getting to know' the
    subject hasn't happened with type studies - yet. The tests have been too naive.
    MUCH too naive. That could change and I would like it to change. But until it
    does there is is no point in waiving 'science' & 'tests' around to impress us.
    A little more meekness would go a long way. Nick's examples of variables to think
    about are excellent. No doubt there are even more to consider. \r\n\r\nIn the
    end it never going to be a good idea to ask 'tests' what bread you should eat
    or what type you should use. Rather, it's always going to be a good idea to feel
    your way into it, thinking about the situation as whole, and experiemening for
    yourself, and when you can; allowing your decision to be informed by whatever
    science can offer at the time. These choices are always going be partly a cultural
    excercise too. The pure consideration of efficiency and or effectiveness will
    never be a complete guide to practice. \r\n\r\nI think that people who are beating
    down these proclimations of 'fact' are not against science at all. I think they
    were interested and then disappointed by what they found. Maybe I am just gerealizing
    my own case. \r\n\r\nCeratinly there are always people who rather than working
    at looking & seeing better ( for themselves ) would like to rely on someone else's
    rules to justify what their choices. Designers and Clients. But that's just hiding
    from reality. It's weak. No matter what science may get around to showing in time
    it's always going to be a good idea to keep your eyes open & mind open. That's
    just good science.\r\n\r\nI am not going to to go so far as to say I'm right about
    any of this. But this how it looks to me today."
  created: '2006-10-21 02:53:15'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "The Earth is flat myth is from the 19th century, from Aristotle (4th century
    BC) and right through the Middle Ages it was known the world is roughly spherical,
    those that claimed otherwise were the exception rather than the rule.\r\nApologies
    for the off-topic, but since we are talking of science here.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-21 08:46:37'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Eban Sorkin wrote:\r\n>In the end it never going to be a good idea to ask
    \u2018tests\u2019 what bread \r\n>you should eat or what type you should use.\r\n\r\nAgreed.
    But as you point out, science is being quite extensively by cooks. Many cooking
    magazines, led by Cook\u2019s Illustrated, regularly use the scientific method
    to improve their recipes. They do not test if brioche the best bread, but rather
    attempt to optimize the preparation of a certain recipe. They regularly make 20
    different versions of a recipe, manipulating one variable at a time, in their
    search for the best preparation. They ask several people to taste each version
    of the recipe and rate how good a recipe tastes. Testing is being used here as
    a useful tool to help the chef.\r\n\r\nAt a different level, Harold McGee has
    written several interesting books explaining how different cooking techniques
    impact foods at the molecular level. Our understanding of the effects of cooking
    preparations on food is better than our understanding of legibility (though certainly
    not perfect). This information is useful for understanding the health impact of
    different foods and preparations. If a chef is interested in making healthful
    food, it would be useful to pay attention to this kind of information. Similarly,
    if we understood the mental processes for recognizing words, this information
    could be used to make more legible typefaces. Of course if a type designers purpose
    had nothing to do with legibility, this information could be safely ignored.\r\n\r\nThere
    has been a misunderstanding about science in this thread. Science is not a topic,
    but a method for learning. Not all statements are scientific just because they
    are about topics closely associated with science like chemistry, physics, or the
    natural world. Science is defined by the scientific method, a process for making
    observations about the world and conducting experiments to test the accuracy of
    proposed theories. Claiming that ships could go missing because they fell off
    the edge of the world is not a scientific statement, but a post-hoc explanation
    of an event. A repeatable scientific experiment that could support the flat earth
    theory would be to demonstrate that the sun rises and falls at the same time in
    Seattle and Los Angeles. The best theory is the one that supports the most evidence.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-21 20:26:11'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Returning to the topic of type size, I thought it might be valuable to print
    the Table of Contents from Miles Tinker\u2019s book Legibility of Print:\r\n\r\n1.\tIntroduction\r\n2.\tMethodology
    and Definitions\r\n3.\tLegibility of Letters and Digits\r\n4.\tKinds of Type\r\n5.\tSize
    of Type\r\n6.\tWidth of Line\r\n7.\tLeading and Relationship of Leading, Type
    Size, and Line Width\r\n8.\tSpatial Arrangement of the Printed Page\r\n9.\tColor
    of Print and Background\r\n10.\tPrinting Surfaces\r\n11.\tCumulative Effect of
    Combining Nonoptimal Typographical Arrangements\r\n12.\tNewspaper Typography\r\n13.\tFormulas
    and Mathematical Tables\r\n14.\tSpecial Printing Situations\r\n15.\tIllumination
    for Reading\r\n16.\tThe Hygienic Reading Situation\r\n\r\nI am quite impressed
    by the breadth of topics that Tinker studied, and am surprised that many typographers
    are not familiar with his work. It has been mentioned in this thread that some
    researchers understand little about typography. This does not apply to Tinker.
    He spent his entire  career studying typography and working with printers.\r\n\r\nIn
    this book you can find studies of size effects on different type faces in Chapter
    5, studies looking at the interaction of leading line length and size in Chapter
    7, studies of size in the context of Newspapers in Chapter 12, and the interaction
    of size and illumination in Chapter 15.\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-21 21:04:15'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I have heard that if anybody can make progress in this area it's you Kevin.
    And I agree with your statement here and wish you and your type projects all possible
    success and godspeed! I don't doubt for a moment that well designed tests could
    help type design in many many and possibly profound ways. If you agree that Type
    Design and Type Use are however, always going be partly cultural excercises too
    in which efficiency and or test-proven effectiveness will never be a complete
    guide to practice; why then we would seem to agree completely! Actually, I would
    love to chat with you sometime. Is that possible?
  created: '2006-10-21 21:10:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I have heard that if anybody can make progress in this area it\u2019s you
    Kevin.\r\n\r\nI told you that.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-21 21:14:33'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Indeed you did.
  created: '2006-10-21 21:16:50'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Hi Eben,\r\nSorry for misspelling your name. Yes, I\u2019m happy to talk
    to you or any typophiler offline. My address is kevlar at microsoft.\r\nCheers,
    Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-22 00:52:29'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Thanks! I have sent you an email. Cheers!
  created: '2006-10-22 02:33:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I just got my copy of Typo in the mail with an article by Kevin.  I will
    go read it!\r\n\r\nThanks Kevin!\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-22 04:33:29'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "There is the popular perception of ease of reading and the plebeian monolinear
    logic that bigger is better; there are the confirmed realities of reading speed,
    eye movements, user satisfaction, sustainability of immersion--with comprehension
    and engagement--varying with font selection, type size, leading and line length,
    illumination, paper stock or type of screen; and there is the accumulated craft-wisdom
    of the typographical clerisy that optimization of readability is a multi-dimensional
    exercise, and the generation of an gestural atmospheric <em>plus value</em> a
    benefit.\r\n\r\nKevin, my impression is that in the end Tinker and Patterson's
    cumulative results confirm the typographical intuition that the optimization of
    readability is a multi-dimensional exercise and that their results are probably
    mis-applied when recruited to support a monoliniar logic (of bigger is better
    for instance) or binary choices (between serif and sans serif for instance) or
    an intrinsic antagonism between functionality and aesthetics.\r\n\r\nEfficiency
    of eye movements and sustainability of immersion with comprehension might be better
    indicies of readability in typographic terms than reading speed. No one typographical
    factor controls this. \r\n\r\nI suspect there is an optimal <em>range</em> of
    reading speed where sense following is robust. Too slow, and effective sense-following
    is jeopordized; too fast, and sense-following deteriorates. All good type has
    to do is work within this range. Higher reading speeds does not mean more legible
    or readable, all it means is more functional in circumstances where speed of recognition
    is of the essence, like in highway signage. Type faces aren't readable. Text is.
    <em>Writing</em> can be legible or illegible. It's not the brute or base-level
    legibility of a typeface that we should be talking about, because it is rarely
    in question in fonts designed for extended text use. We do need to talk about
    the discrimination affordance of words and letters in type X under conditions
    Y and Z (speed, size, illumination), or the ability of a font to stand up under
    degradation because of screen or printing conditions."
  created: '2006-10-22 16:17:32'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Adding to the above]\r\n\r\nTo be impertinent: I agree with Nick. Referring
    to uni-varient tests of reading speed as 'legibility research' is an insidious
    misnomer.\r\n\r\n1) We need to know how typographical factors interact under variable
    conditions of use relative to other scales than reading speed. 2) We need to inform
    ourselves about what's important and why, rather than what to do and by how much.
    We need empirico-scientifically grounded frameworks for intelligent action rather
    than direct prescriptions for immobile specifications.\r\n\r\nAre tests of reading
    speed useless? no!!"
  created: '2006-10-22 17:09:12'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Peter wrote:\r\n> Kevin, my impression is that in the end Tinker and Patterson\u2019s
    \r\n> cumulative results confirm the typographical intuition that the \r\n> optimization
    of readability is a multi-dimensional exercise\r\n\r\nAbsolutely, Chapter 11 of
    Legibility of Print looks at some of the combinatorial effects of the factors
    they studied. It\u2019s a bit of an oversimplification, but I think they found
    that reading speed is reduced if any of the typographical variables they studied
    were set very differently from what was found optimal in the single variable studies.\r\n\r\nWhen
    you reference bigger is better, I don\u2019t think you mean that someone said
    that larger text sizes are always better (though that might be somewhat true for
    visual impairment)? Instead I think you\u2019re asking if it\u2019s always better
    to have faster reading speeds? I would argue that as long as comprehension is
    kept constant, that faster reading speeds are always better. I would guess that
    more than half of the time spent reading is not spent on word recognition, but
    spent trying understand the meaning behind the string of words. I would also assume
    that improved legibility makes it easier to recognize words, but has little effect
    processing the meaning of a sentence. I see no reason to not try to improve the
    efficiency of word recognition as much as possible. If content is difficult, reading
    speed will slow to allow more time to process the meaning of the sentence and
    shouldn\u2019t ever need slower word recognition speeds to help it out. (Peter,
    you may be interested in Fodor\u2019s argument of modularity in Modularity of
    Mind)\r\n\r\nPeter wrote:\r\n> Efficiency of eye movements and sustainability
    of immersion with \r\n> comprehension might be better indices of readability in
    typographic \r\n> terms than reading speed.\r\n\r\nI think reading speed is an
    approximation of efficient eye movements. Fast reading speed means some combination
    of reduced fixation time, reduced regressive saccades, and longer saccades. Reading
    speed does not get at sustainability of immersion. Understanding what immersion
    means and how to measure it is an interesting area of research. I would humbly
    point to my article in Typo for one idea on that topic.\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-24 02:01:18'
date: '2006-10-12 08:22:25'
title: ' large vs small type sizes for body copy- legibility'

---
