---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: "Do [[ligature|ligatures]] improve [[readability]]? When I ask this I am thinking
  of <strong>ff fl fi </strong>etc rather than <strong>st </strong>or <strong>ct</strong>
  the later being a little distracting I think. I ask this because I had been thinking
  as an article of faith you might say that certain ligatures ( assuming a ligature
  design that is not showy or attention getting ) simply did make better word forms
  and hence generally speaking better & more pleasant immersive reading. \r\n\r\nBut
  think about it again I realize that all I have is my gut for this. \r\n\r\nWhat
  do you guys think? \r\n\r\nBTW: Here are some threads & links with related info/ideas.
  They don't actually deal withis question directly but they are ligature related.\r\n\r\n<a
  href=\"http://typophile.com/node/9473\">Ligatures in OpenType: Discretionary vs.
  Standard</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/16531\">Usage of Ligatures in
  Corporate Font and Business Letters?</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/28394\">OT
  Ligatures &gt; calt or liga?</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/6251\">Ligatures</a>\r\n\r\nhttps://listserv.heanet.ie/cgi-bin/wa?A2=ind9604&L=typo-l&T=0&P=3048"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Do ligatures improve readability? \r\n\r\nKevin Larson, may correct me if
    I'm wrong, but I think that any improvement in reading performance between texts
    where the only difference is ligatures vs no ligatures would be far too small
    to measure using current techniques. \r\n\r\nI know the team studied performance
    where all the typographic stops had been pulled out (ligs, small caps, osf etc.,)
    vs no typographic niceties and found the difference not measurable even then.
    \  \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Chris Dean
      picture: 111971
    body: What team?
    created: '2006-10-23 05:21:51'
  created: '2006-10-12 21:15:42'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: In my opinion ligs do improve a conscious or unconscious text access in reading
    performances, therefore an aesthetic pleasure.
  created: '2006-10-12 22:22:37'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: 'A most interesting and challenging discussion of traditional rules and concepts:
    Will Harris, <a href="http://www.will-harris.com/ligatures.htm">Ligature Schmigature</a>.
    Best I have read. But I bet it''s already been mentioned in the previous threads
    on the subject.'
  created: '2006-10-13 00:37:21'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Simon, it sounds like I should contact Kevin Larson for the details. Correct?
    So in your view  would you say that ligatures can be justified on a purly stylitic
    or historical basis? Or put another way they are basically there to provide color
    or to ground a typeface in it's historical context?\r\n\r\nAlessandro, I have
    to admit I am leaning in your direction. I favor it. But what basis do you have
    for saying that?"
  created: '2006-10-13 00:45:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I think a good f-ligature is one that is invisible when read quickly, and
    when looked at slowly doesn't look awkward. \r\n\r\nThe problem of a no ligatures
    in faces with a rightward extended f is that the clash results in an awkward-looking
    juxtuposition. The ligature is basically for aesthetics. \r\n\r\nThe aesthetic
    dimension is important, particularly for headings and display type, but I wouldn't
    expect much of an impact on reading. "
  created: '2006-10-13 00:59:08'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I stop short when I see an un-ligatured fi. So yes, I think they improve legibility.
  created: '2006-10-13 04:49:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Simon, it sounds like I should contact Kevin Larson for the details. Correct?
    So in your view would you say that ligatures can be justified on a purly stylitic
    or historical basis? \r\n\r\nNo not really, I think that ligatures improve readability
    but I think it's impossible to prove they do. \r\n\r\nI think Kevin would say
    that when ligatures are used along with small caps, old style figues, correct
    spacing etc., that you can measure improved performance. "
  created: '2006-10-13 04:58:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "\"An arrangement of lines and curves and angles may be beautiful in itself,
    but unless it suggests a form it is valueless. And the more clearly and definitely
    it suggests that form, the more we value it.\" - Talbot Baines Reid, <em>Ars Typographica,</em>
    Winter, 1920.\r\n\r\nIn classic serifed faces, the fi and fl combinations create
    indefinite forms in which the letters are almost-merged. Ligatures solve this
    problem by fully merging them.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/liga_5597.jpg]\r\nReading
    research has discovered that we read letters not words, but I suspect it is more
    likely that we read discrete, contiguous shapes -- which is what most letters
    are, except for those which have separate accents, and that includes the i. Therefore,
    the circumstance where the dot of the i becomes attached to an adjacent letter
    is detrimental to readability. \r\n\r\nThat's a rationalization for something
    we understand not with mere intellect or gut feeling, but with typographic sensibility."
  created: '2006-10-13 05:25:46'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Eben, basis ?\r\nI like the art of typography----is that an answer ?\r\nFor
    example, I have been lucky enough to touch this book :\r\nhttp://mitpress.mit.edu/e-books/HP/hyp020.htm\r\nAnd
    here is a photo of mine from Tallone's atelier, a book in the process, isn't it
    beautiful ?\r\nhttp://www.as8.it/type/formeTallone.jpg"
  created: '2006-10-13 10:26:24'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I guess the change in colour when a non-ligatured f and i collide is a good
    enough reason to suggest they assist reading, just as rivers or double word spaces
    hinder it.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-13 11:36:27'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> I stop short when I see an un-ligatured fi. So yes, I think they improve
    legibility.\r\n\r\nAs would be the case with most of us here. But that is because
    we are trained to look for them, just as typewriter quotes bother us, and slow
    down our reading. But to most people, these typographic niceties are not recognized,
    and would not cause them to \"stop short.\"\r\n\r\nI see it as a case, like so
    many other things, where good typography can give good color to a page, and that
    can improve reading. Will Harris makes some good points in his article (linked
    above). I will insist that good color does improve readibility, at least until
    someone shows me a study that refutes it.\r\n\r\nBad color ... the worst case
    being the use of bold words sprinkled within text ... means that the eye is attracted
    to the (bold) words, breaking the normal flow of the text. This has to decrease
    readability as the eye is jumping about unnecessarily.\r\n\r\nLining figures,
    fake small caps, full cap acronyms, and other bumps in the road to good color
    will all do the same thing, although  not as badly as bold text."
  created: '2006-10-13 19:25:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The other difficulty is that some sets of ligs are done better than others.
    \ It might be hard to make a blanket statement about ligatures without measuring
    the difference between the good ones and the not-so-good ones. \r\nThe main job
    of the lig is to avoid the crash and the hole.  To me, it makes sense that a crash
    and a hole can cause a brief moment to sort out slowing down the reading a tiny
    amount. Context solves most of it but I find when I am looking at text in a foreign
    language, the absence of ligs seems most jarring--I have no context to help me
    there.\r\nThe other issue is with typography that is readable enough as words
    and language but whose meaning becomes enhanced by typographic effects including
    ligatures. This is probably not the case for emersive reading but might hold true
    for the things we might dwell over reading a bit longer--covers, ads, menus, art
    books, display material...\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-13 19:43:20'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Alessandro : I do see beauty there but plenty of beautiful things are not
    functional. Ideally the two should be married & if you listen to some beauty should
    precede or fuction should as they prefer. But my question is how did you come
    to decide this. That is what I mean by basis. You can still count me as sympathetic
    just skeptical of either point of view having been made in a some kind of solid
    way.\r\n\r\n\"The other difficulty is that some sets of ligs are done better than...\"
    Chris that's a very good point and while it clouds the issue somewhat - that's
    just too frickin' bad. That's reality! \r\n\r\nActually the only really strong
    arguement I have heard so far against ligatures is that they can make spacing
    look odd when the basic letter spacing is screwed with. This is Will Harris' aregument.
    See the link above. But his point of view is overly practical in my view. He is
    advocating safer type. Not better type if you see what I mean. He is seeking the
    robust over the perfect and somewhat brittle. I see his point even if I am not
    completely taken with it.\r\n\r\nReading over everybody's posts the final thing
    that I am reminded of ( again one of Will's arguements or obsevations ) is that
    it is possible to simply design letters differently to avoid the problems that
    would have occured. An f can be made more narrow so collision is avoided. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.will-harris.com/ligatures.htm\r\n\r\nSo
    I suppose I aught to reframe the question ( without expecting a solid answer per
    se ) is it better to redesign the forms or to use ligatures for immersive reading.
    I bet they wash out as more or less equal. And other issues such as 'is it a revival?'
    etc. must trump any kind of absolute decision you could make.\r\n\r\nOf course
    now I am think about it I am starting to see other redesigned elements in typefaces
    which are not ligature related but are related to robustness in spacing such as
    the seemingly shrinking arm on the 'r' glyph. Anybody care to mention other examples?\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2006-10-13 22:13:33'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Also, does anybody have any specific arguements'' against Will''s various
    points re: ligatures?'
  created: '2006-10-13 22:16:02'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "It sounds like a lot of people are saying the same thing: they're good if
    they're good.\r\n\r\nI think ligatures should fix a problem, and they should disappear.
    I've seen lots of nice Linotype faces (and others) which are designed to not need
    ligatures. I think it's especially difficult for young type designers to come
    around to the idea that ligatures aren't always better -- because they are so
    fun to make and look at.\r\n\r\nAs mentioned above, if the ligature itself doesn't
    match the overall letterspacing, it's trouble.\r\n\r\nOnce again, I can cite some
    changes between the old Type 1 version of Utopia and the newer OpenType version
    to show how two different approaches to ligatures compare. (I always thought the
    old ligatures were a little obtrusive, despite my liking the design of them. I
    think especially the first f in the ffi \"reaches\" a little too much.)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture3_5452.png]"
  created: '2006-10-13 22:40:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I suspect that Utopia's popularity as a news face might have something to
    do with this. Given that most news text varies tracking quite a bit to assist
    justification on narrow columns, if the font has a dotless fi ligature, you will
    get a variety of ligating and non-ligating f_i combinations in text, with an overall
    appearance of "quantum dotting", which is probably not a good idea. Therefore
    the dotted ligature is to be preferred -- at least this was my reasoning for doing
    it that way in Worldwide.
  created: '2006-10-13 23:08:42'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Eben, and also Christopher for his \u201Cthey\u2019re good if they\u2019re
    good\u201D, I leave you your definition of beauty because I like things that are
    not funtional especially in the semiosphere. What are commonly referred to as
    ligatures are strictly aesthetic forms, most exist to avoid awkward collisions
    between characters (or text kerned glyph systems as tradition has it that ligatures
    should  not be used in display type). They have no phonetic or syntactical roles
    (some editors dislike \u2018&\u2019)----they are strictly typographic constructs.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    the point whether it is possible to \u201Csimply design letters differently to
    avoid the problems that would have occured\u201D I would say that italics should
    be set only with the default designed spacing, as for the Roman, I expect old
    and young type designers to come around to the idea that there are new possiblities
    in forms but lettering is a precise art and strictly subject to tradition -- you
    can\u2019t make letters any shape you like, you can\u2019t make houses any shapes
    you like, unless you live all by yourself on a desert island.\r\n\r\nEben, I am
    glad I can count you as sympathetic and skeptical, I have my knowledge, my know-how
    and my physical being as basis, I'd like to quote Buckminster Fuller for you,
    \u201CWhen I\u2019m working on a problem, I never think about beauty. I think
    only how to solve the problem. But when I have finished, if the solution is not
    beautiful, I know it is wrong.\u201D"
  created: '2006-10-14 09:17:30'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "> I stop short when I see an un-ligatured fi. So yes, I think they improve
    legibility.\r\n\r\nI agree, but only for display sizes. When reading text settings
    (less than 13 pt), I think my eye is just too caught up in decoding words to usually
    notice a colliding f and i or l.\r\n\r\nWhat REALLY stands out, though, is an
    fi-lig or fl-lig that is too cramped. How many times have we all seen a word with
    loose tracking applied but a \"stands out like a sore thumb\" auto-inserted fi-lig?
    Yeesh. That's the real peeve for me.\r\n\r\nAs a rule, I say \"use 'em at display
    sizes, but only when the ligs a) avoid a bad collision and b) are close in kerning
    to the way the letters would appear without a lig.\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\n------------------------------------------------------"
  created: '2006-10-14 15:47:46'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>... I\u2019d like to quote Buckminster Fuller for you, \u201CWhen I\u2019m
    working on a problem, I never think about beauty. I think only how to solve the
    problem. But when I have finished, if the solution is not beautiful, I know it
    is wrong.\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nI love that quotation. That's modernism right there,
    letting functionality -- a perfectly solved problem -- be beauty. Also, not bad
    advice for any designer."
  created: '2006-10-14 17:37:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ah oh, Christopher used the \"M\" word. Duck! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-14 20:14:15'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "I for one don't have a problem with ligs (if they're good), and i agree one
    shouldn't consciously see them. \r\nThat goes for f-ligatures, mainly.\r\nThe
    revival of historical ligatures, tho, is a completely different thing. I find
    ct and st ligatures, as beautiful as they may be, if used in plain body copy very
    distracting. I think a typographer should have very good reason to use these \u2013
    because of context, content, etc.\u2013, otherwise leave them on the shelf."
  created: '2006-10-16 10:26:24'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I think the value of ligatured forms has to be measured in terms of neurological
    computation costs within the visual cortex (not reading speed) and judged in terms
    of the manipulation of saliency and the strategic assignment of cue value, not
    aesthetics first and foremost.\r\n\r\nThe brief moment of sorting out referred
    to by Chris is because the 'crash and hole' create disproportionate areas of saliency
    in the total figuaral word-object, upsetting the balance of cue-values of criterial
    recognitional features.\r\n\r\nIt is <em>this</em> imbalance that compromises
    readability. The aesthetics of it is another dimension.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-10-16 14:56:21'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "How do you measure in 'neurological computation costs'? When you say 'manipulation
    of saliency' and 'cue value' I think you might be saying something like : '...manipulation
    of the ability of the brain to rapidly resolve, or recognize glyphs or ligatures.
    Am I with you?\r\n\r\nHow can a type designer measure the balance of cue values?
    Right now I think most (or perhaps all ) type designers use aesthetic criteria
    to judge that balance. Even if it might be ideal to do otherwise, is there another
    option today?"
  created: '2006-10-18 19:37:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"type designers use aesthetic criteria to judge that balance.\"\r\n\r\nThat
    is only part of it. Granted, it is not a scientific measure used by type desighners
    but their trained eyes are capable of seeing disruptions in visual pattern that
    are caused by missfitted neighboring glyphs. They either fix the problem with
    adjustments to the outlines or with font metrics--fixed or kerning based.  If
    this fails, ligatures may be a solution.  I don't think these decisions are based
    so much on the aaesthetics of the type as they are on what the type designer feels
    is the function of the type. Anyone can debate if the type designer is successful
    in fixing problem crashes and holes (people like Kevin may be able to measure
    the effectiveness in some more concrete way) but I don't think the typical type
    designer would call his an aesthetic decision.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-18 19:51:11'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "My basic point was that type designers should think of what they are doing
    when they manipulate the contrast in and connection, or role-relationship rules
    of the role architectural components of letters as adjusting cue-values and manipulating
    saliencies, that is, as making salient what has criterial cue value toward visual
    wordform resolution. Experienced type designers have an intuitive grasp of this,
    or so I think.\r\n\r\nChris's 'crash and hole' create areas of proportionally
    higher visual salience in areas of the word map, and this disproportion exacts
    a neural computation cost. The word 'measure' was a bit unfortunate. I meant it
    in the sense of gauge, or 'thought of in terms of'. I'm introducing a set of heuristics
    that have a perceptual processing signature--a framework for acting, a system
    of constructs convenient for gauging efforts and channelling action.\r\n\r\nYou
    don't need a nueralcomputationcostometer to practice mindfulness of computation
    costs / saliency / cue value in action. Though it might help to have empirical
    verification of what things have cue value. I think things like the overshoot
    of ascenders and descenders beyond the x-height and baseline; abscence of closure
    in the 'c', the 'n', the 'u' etc. are a start[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-10-20 02:26:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I agree with Chris that avoiding 'crashes' with overhanging f's and other
    letters does benefit readability. I just think the benefit in a text type is tiny
    compared to many other more important factors. When read quickly at text sizes,
    I suspect that eg fi crashes would not usually be noticed and so not slow down
    a reader. In Peter's terms the crashes are not very 'salient' architectural features.
    \r\n\r\nThus the aesthetic dimension--you don't want the word to look like a mess
    when you look closely--becomes more the decisive factor.     "
  created: '2006-10-20 02:40:05'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Bill, we might not notice the crashes, much like we don't notice regressive
    eye movements. They don't break through to our overt awareness unless we are attuned
    to them, or scan the setting with the eyes of a practiced typographer. But I would
    suggest that they are registered in the early layers of the visual cortex as activation
    spikes at a level disproportionate to the cue value importance of information
    in the stimulus area where they occur. This makes necessary--or so I think--additional
    neural computational work in accomodating the activation provoked by the stimulus
    complex--with its rogue area of over-dense, distracting or clotting visual information--to
    the neural code for a known or familiar word. \r\n\r\nThe receptive fields of
    the visual cortex benefit from--does it's work better with--clean, well-managed
    saliency maps, with no areas where contour interactions become disruptive.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-10-20 04:28:33'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Bill, to follow up, essentially I'm averse to downplaying the perceptual
    processing benefit in favour of the aesthetic benefit. In the case of ligatures
    they are both operative in our engagement with the text. In isolated instances
    the costs might seem inconsequential. Over time and a large text the costs might
    be calculable. Especially if the type of problem ligatures try to solve is endemic
    to the font.\r\n\r\nI would suspect that the perceptual processing costs are proportionate
    to the aesthetic costs.\r\n\r\nWhen you gauge the extent of the gap in the bottom
    of the seriffed 'n' are you assessing it's functionality in perceptual processing
    terms or it's membership in a set of formally cohesive, mutually fitable forms?
    I would venture it is both, and that they do not need to be in tension.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-10-20 15:13:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Over time and a large text the costs might be calculable.\r\n\r\nYou may
    be right Peter. I really don't know, of course. I am just guessing that this is
    not a big factor. Reflecting on this again, let me partly retract what I said.
    I was reacting to the fact that I and other people don't notice the fi crash in
    Times Roman in MS Word, where they don't have ligatures. There are just millions
    of documents like this. However, if fi ligatures were all over the place in a
    language, it would be important. But I wonder if then it might be better just
    to have no overhanging f. \r\n\r\nOn the gap at the bottom of a seriffed n. Funny
    thing, I was just working on that yesterday. I think it has a lot to do with having
    the 'n' look balanced and even in color within words. I think here the aesthetic
    and readability considerations largely coincide. The balance and even color give
    the neutral background against which only the salient features of the n stand
    out as different and are easily and instantly registered by the eye and brain,
    without any distraction. Of course, connecting the bottom of the n completely
    would also change the architecture, so that apprearance would need to be avoided.
    \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2006-10-20 15:32:04'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"The balance and even color give the neutral background against which only
    the salient features of the n stand out as different and are easily and instantly
    registered by the eye and brain, without any distraction.\" \r\n\r\nElaborating,
    I might say: the even colour is the expression of a rhythmically coordinated field
    in which only the features criterial for visual wordform resolution are properly
    salient, and registered without distraction or interference. [ 'registered' could
    be substituted with: assert their proper cue-value ][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-10-20 16:35:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pfis_6149.png]\r\nThe unfolded f, e.g.
    in Palatino, at left, minimizes the need for ligatures, but is apt to create vertical
    \"fingers' (the reverse of \"rivers\") with descenders in the line above.\r\n\r\nThe
    strongly terminated f, shown centre and right, is better disambiguated from adjacent
    descenders, but at the cost of requiring ligatures.\r\n\r\nTraditional serifed
    typography, which did not use extra leading, was and is dependent on type forms
    where the f ligatures are absolutely essential. One sees this notably in type
    associated with the Morison years at Monotype, as in his little book on type practice,
    which is set in a solidly leaded Bembo, if my memory is correct. "
  created: '2006-10-20 17:22:27'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "So, there are different kinds of ligatures. Those that are used in text to
    reapportion areas of saliency in the total figuaral word-object, so that the balance
    of cue-values for criterial recognitional features is maintained, (or they \"look
    better\" than the default glyphs), are aides to readability (fi, at least). Those
    ligatures that are used in text to embellish the total figuaral word-object, so
    that the balance of cue-values of criterial recognitional features is disturbed
    to the reader, should do so for some purpose, or risk doing so for nothing, or
    less.\r\n\r\nTo some extent, I think this is true about type beyond ligatures.
    If you have a chance to \"read\" today's NY Times OpEd piece on String Theory
    (that'd be the print version, I dunno if they publish type set on a spool in pdf...),
    you can see what I mean. ;)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 17:29:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks, Nick, interesting insight. \r\n\r\nThe truncated f was done for Linotype,
    I believe. Monotype I believe had an 'edge' over Linotype in allowing kerning,
    so they probably made the most of it for that reason among others you point out.
    You could get ligatures on the Lino keyboard though it seems they were probably
    more trouble--perhaps someone knows about this.  \r\n\r\nIsn't the truncated f
    common now in sans faces? Why is that, given that there is no problem with kerning
    and ligatures in digital type? "
  created: '2006-10-20 17:34:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>You could get ligatures on the Lino keyboard</em>\r\n\r\nAlso two-letter
    \"logotypes\" to \"kern\" character combinations such as \"V_a\".\r\nDo we also
    have to debate whether kerning can be scientifically proven to improve readability?"
  created: '2006-10-20 17:47:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Why is that, given that there is no problem with kerning and ligatures
    in digital type?</em>\r\n\r\nFirstly, it's easier to design without ligatures.\r\nAlso,
    extra leading is no more work than solid leading, and is the norm (note software
    defaults). So \"fingers\" are a not a problem."
  created: '2006-10-20 17:51:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> To some extent, I think this is true about type beyond ligatures.\r\n\r\nTotally.\r\n\r\n>
    Isn\u2019t the truncated f common now in sans faces? Why is that\r\n\r\nTradition
    usually has a lot to do with that sort of thing. Plus Modernism wreaks its usual
    havoc, seeing as how it prefers sans to begin with. Also note that sans fonts
    tend to have larger x-heights, making a [relatively] large beak on the \"f\" fit
    fine.\r\n\r\n> Do we also have to debate ...\r\n\r\nYou don't.\r\n\r\nBTW, the
    notion that metal type was usually (or even often) set without leading is incorrect
    (except in newspapers). And if you've ever set metal type you know why: the lead
    keeps those little sorts from falling into the bottom line like rotten teeth!
    The lead physically holds the line together.\r\n\r\nBut Linotype, different story,
    since the type was the line itself (besides being limited in other ways compared
    to \"foundry\" -coldmetal- type). And Monotype, being mechanically tighter than
    human hands, I'm guessing could get by without leading as well.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 19:52:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Also: some designers (a while back) used to shift the tittles on the \"i\"
    and \"j\" to the right, to accomodate a well-endowed \"f\", in order not to force
    ligature use on the compositor.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 19:58:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "With regards to metal type, I said \"extra\" leading. \r\nYou're right about
    newspapers. The Linotype, casting quite literally a line of type, made solid leading
    very practical. Although it's interesting to note that the Linotype manual of
    1923 flaunts copious leading throughout.\r\nFor tight leading I was thinking of
    pieces like this Monotype promotion of 1924:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/flahs_5665.jpg]"
  created: '2006-10-20 20:21:03'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "I've been 'lurking' in this thread and have learned a lot from so many erudite
    posts. One thing I've been wondering, though, is whether this discussion should
    first be approached from the other end, so to speak.\r\n\r\nBefore diving into
    the complexities of how ligatures and other lettershape features affect word image
    and, ultimately, readability, shouldn't one look into the expectations of people
    from different cultures and printing traditions?\r\n\r\nTo me, Patty's comment
    says it all:\r\n\r\n<em>I stop short when I see an un-ligatured fi. So yes, I
    think they improve legibility.</em>\r\n\r\nMy reply would be, \"Well, yes, but
    that's because you're a type nut, like the rest of us.\"\r\n\r\nPeople who have
    lived their whole lives in places with little or no typographic tradition (like
    Brazil) are not at all unlikely to never have laid eyes on a 'standard' ligature.
    Couldn't it be that ligatures cause more of an imbalance to the word image that
    those people expect to see than so-called 'crashes'? After all, one can only process
    ligatures without any conscious effort if one is intimately familiar with them.
    In other words, if all one has seen their whole lives is 'unsightly' collisions
    between f's and i's, perhaps that's what they expect to see."
  created: '2006-10-23 00:19:23'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>one can only process ligatures without any conscious effort if one
    is intimately familiar with them</cite>\r\n\r\nI think this idea is a mistake.
    It's true that familiarity ( culture) has it's effects. Culture is not a minor
    aspect.  It's a big deal. It is however, just one part of the puzzle. I ( and
    I suspect most of us here - correct me if I err) think that there is such a thing
    as better & worse design. I would be willing to bet that a well designed ligature
    will beat crashing & holes in what ever population you toss it into. And a poorly
    designed one will not. Assuming you are not stressing the font out with heavy
    spacing as Will harris ( see above) points out. Also, all the ligatures pairs
    and triples are different. an fi is not a ct. I would argue that the ct is more
    significantly an artifact of the chrographic origin of the lower case. It's more
    vestigal and has less obvious visual utility. Where as the fi ( when it is designed
    well) has quite alot of visual utility. "
  created: '2006-10-23 00:46:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Well said Eben.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-23 02:19:54'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<em>I (and I suspect most of us here - correct me if I err) think that there
    is such a thing as better & worse design.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think you err at
    all; in fact, I probably have a lot more to learn from you than the other way
    around. I present my case here half hoping that someone will prove me wrong! :-)\r\n\r\nI'm
    all for making choices based on what I believe to be 'better design'. I just don't
    know that I would claim such decisions to be right or wrong in a more absolute,
    universal sense -- not that I think you're doing that, mind you. In other words,
    I'm open to research that could prove my choices to be wrong.\r\n\r\nBut even
    if incontrovertible 'hard data' were to prove, say, that for a certain target
    audience lining figures make for better readability than text figures, I would
    still use the latter, especially in extended text. In fact, I think a lot of people
    do this consciously all the time: if it were proven once and for all that serif
    faces are more readable than sans-serif ones, or that faces with high contrast
    and vertical stress are more readable than low-contrast ones with an oblique axis
    (for a given target audience), Bodoni wouldn't all of a sudden become the most
    popular face among well-informed designers.\r\n\r\nTo sum up, I believe in better
    and worse design; I'm just not sure that better design always corresponds to better
    readability."
  created: '2006-10-23 04:49:01'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Re: <cite> To sum up, I believe in better and worse design; I\u2019m just
    not sure that better design always corresponds to better legibility. </cite>\r\n\r\nYour
    may be right. It isn't clear to me what you mean by better design. \r\n\r\nSo
    let's take that apart: I think a design can be said to be good if it does something
    very specific - very well. But it's really complex.\r\n\r\n( BTW- you might want
    to search Typophile for threads about legibility and readability. They are different
    too. )\r\n\r\nEven just speaking about legibility is complex. Legibility should
    probably be considered in the context of culture as you pointed out, on what paper,
    with or accomodating what feeling or style, and at what size, and.... many more
    things. With type there are many many many somethings that could be done well
    and some of the specifics are not compatible. \r\n\r\nFor instance: Type that
    works wonderfully well looking just at legibility at 72 point we know does not
    work well at 9. And vice versa. It would be silly to expect one design to do both.\r\n\r\nI
    suspect when you say good design you might mean good style or maybe beauty. That's
    complex too. Style by definition has to coexist with other attributes. Some attributes
    of style like weight or serifs can impact legibility positively or not depending
    on how they are handeled. But you are certainly right to think that sometimes
    a design can be beautiful at the expense of legibility. Is that your point? If
    so, keep in mind that Beauty is not just one relevant measure in some cases -
    it may be the primary one depending on the purpose of the face or the design in
    which it is used.\r\n\r\nThis doesn't mean that there are no generalities that
    can be noticed and which support legibility. They exist, but in a very provisional
    or contextual way rather than absolute one.\r\n\r\nBut coming back to a pervious
    point of yours (if I understand it). I agree that people who design type don't
    have nearly enough hard data to work with yet. That may change. And to be sure
    some of what we do is probably neither helping nor hurting legibility. But that's
    not necessarily the problem that it may sound like; legibility being just one
    way to measure the success of a typeface. \r\n\r\nBut even in our relatively impovrished
    state (from a hard data point of view); there is quite alot that intuition, cultivated
    sensitivity, and awareness of context can offer in the persuit of legibilty. Pehaps
    you will be one those folks who will chew on the data! Or create the data. That
    would be great!  \r\n\r\nHowever I don't think that proof is what will emerge
    from testing or that 'proof' will help anyone, but rather I hope that testing
    will illumminate the way that characteristics of type can be traded off against
    each other to differing and hopefully increasingly deliberate effect. No matter
    what the test results may show - a prescription for Bodoni ( or any other face
    ) will never be 'the right one'. But I do think testing may eventualy help us
    to know more precisely what a type design is likely to be able to do. I put it
    that way because then there is the question of use. That's a whole additional
    area!\r\n\r\nThis is way too long. Sorry about that. I hope it is helpful and
    not a pain.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2006-10-23 07:39:02'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<em>BTW- you might want to search Typophile for threads about legibility
    and readability. They are different too.</em>\r\n\r\nI am well aware of the difference.
    Here the distinction didn't seem important, since no contrast is being made between
    one and the other. In any event, I've edited my posts so that the word 'readability'
    is now used throughout.\r\n\r\n<em>I suspect when you say good design you might
    mean good style or maybe beauty. That\u2019s complex too.</em>\r\n\r\nHmm... Not
    really, no. I mean, designers usually strive for style and beauty, yes, but that
    shouldn't be their ultimate goal. After all, a designer has a problem to solve:
    finding the best possible way to communicate a certain message or messages.\r\n\r\nBut
    what is the best way to communicate a message? Doing it in such a way that the
    reader will be able to process the verbal message with maximum efficiency? Or
    finding the most effective solution to convey a certain mood? Or trying to strike
    a balance between one and the other? That all depends on the designer's goal,
    of course: sometimes it's mostly about being as clear and matter-of-fact as possible,
    sometimes it's mostly about creating a certain atmosphere, sometimes both are
    important.\r\n\r\n<em>But even in our relatively impovrished state (from a hard
    data point of view); there is quite alot that intuition, cultivated sensitivity,
    and awareness of context can offer in the persuit of legibilty. Pehaps you will
    be one those folks who will chew on the data! Or create the data. That would be
    great!</em>\r\n\r\nI don't believe cultivation and intuition will ever be entirely
    supported by hard data. My point is that even if research proves your cultivation
    and intuition to be 'wrong', I don't think you should give them up. 'Better design'
    will <em>never</em> be entirely objective, even if you do make a conscious effort
    to solve a problem rather than just 'make things pretty'. Besides, you can always
    try to educate the audience a little.\r\n\r\n<em>This doesn\u2019t mean that there
    are no generalities that can be noticed and which support legibility. They exist,
    but in a very provisional or contextual way rather than absolute one.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    completely agree. That's why, in my opinion, looking for universally applicable
    generalizations can be a thankless job. Rather than ask whether ligatures improve
    legility/readability -- a 'universal' question -- perhaps it would be more to
    the point to ask whether that is true for, say, French baby boomers that read
    Le Monde.\r\n\r\n<em>But I do think testing may eventualy help us to know more
    precisely what a type design is likely to be able to do.</em>\r\n\r\nIf you're
    talking about general guidelines, I agree. But not even those general guidelines
    will be universal; you'll always need to try your design on a focus group if you
    want to determine how well it works in comparison to something else.\r\n\r\nIn
    the end, though, no tradition is absolute and universal, but that doesn't mean
    you should abandon tradition. It's a little like religion: keep doing it, but
    never hold it to be a universal truth.\r\n\r\nBy the way, if anyone thinks all
    I've said here is a load of c*** or that I've disrupted the discussion that was
    going on without being knowledgeable enough about the subject, feel free to say
    so."
  created: '2006-10-23 14:36:48'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "David Berlow gets the the shift in referential framework I'm trying to encourage.\r\n\r\nA
    Modest Proposal: Let's reserve the terms legibility and readability for base-level
    experiential judgements about writing and texts (with both language use and typographical
    formatting being factors in the perception of readability), where they are more
    at home. Familiarity with the script, facility at visual wordform resolution,
    adequate discrimination affordances of role architectural particulars and proper
    saliency of criterial features are (co)operative within these base-level experiential
    judgements of the typographical component of the readability of texts. Let science
    isolate, denominate and focus in on them.\r\n\r\nThan let's ask more interesting
    and testable questions like: do serifs, tight spacing and ligatures promote or
    inhibit visual wordform resolution / promote 'response bias (to the whole) collapse\"?"
  created: '2006-10-23 14:56:32'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: 'In Erik''s context, my hypothesis would be ligatures improve, in the nature
    of the case, the performance of texts set in types that require them because of
    the structure of the visual cortex and the mechanics of visual wordform resolution.
    Another example: to be resistant to response bias collapse, unseriffed text requires
    tighter control of spacing. So be aware of that when you use it. But don''t avoid
    sans serif when it makes aesthetic and journalistic sense to use it. (There are
    other things to be aware of vis a vis unseriffed faces when used for extended
    texts.)'
  created: '2006-10-23 15:23:58'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> I don\u2019t believe cultivation and intuition will ever be entirely
    supported by hard data. </cite> ( Erik ) \r\n\r\nClearly that's true. It's also
    true that the vast majority of what we find useful in letter design today comes
    from that source- cultivation and intuition. So we should respect it. That respect
    needn't suggest a phobia about science or testing of course.\r\n\r\n< cite> Perhaps
    it would be more to the point to ask whether that is true for, say, French baby
    boomers that read Le Monde. </cite> ( Erik ) \r\n\r\nI am less convinced of the
    importance of culture as a relvant factor than you are. I think other directly
    observable ( an measurable) factors in type are better places to look for specificity.
    That said I think regional testing would be good too. The thing is I don't have
    any confidence that anything like the grand ideas we have espoused for is likely
    to be pursued in the near future. I hope I am wrong. But we shall see.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    reserve the terms legibility and readability </cite> ( Peter) \r\n\r\nI don't
    think anyone can control these terms use except in their own speech and writing.\r\n\r\nI
    would like you to expand on what you mean by:\r\n\r\n' facility at visual wordform
    resolution' and 'adequate discrimination affordances of role architectural particulars
    ' and 'proper saliency of criterial features' and 'mutatis mutandi' and 'response
    bias collapse'\r\n\r\nfor my sake and others.\r\n\r\nAnd by expand I mean I would
    like for you to give examples to illustrate what you mean. I can guess what you
    mean but I don't know that that would be too helpful.\r\n\r\n<cite> Than let\u2019s
    ask more interesting and testable questions like: do serifs, tight spacing and
    ligatures promote or inhibit visual wordform resolution </cite> ( Peter )\r\n\r\nNow
    that's more like it! I even think we could get even more particular while we are
    at it if we want,and that that would probably be a good idea."
  created: '2006-10-23 22:30:55'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<em>Than let\u2019s ask more interesting and testable questions like: do
    serifs, tight spacing and ligatures promote or inhibit visual wordform resolution
    / promote \u2018response bias (to the whole) collapse\u201D?</em>\r\n\r\nSounds
    good to me. I would actually be interested in collaborating on a research project
    like this. What methodology(ies) do you suggest should be used to investigate
    these questions?"
  created: '2006-10-23 23:55:12'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Eric, I'm long on hypotheses but short on methodologies. One approach might
    be to see how the magnitude of the Word Superiority Effect varies with spacing,
    ligatures in fonts that need them, and style of stroke termination. Another might
    be to measure the responsiveness of the Visual Word Form Area under conditions
    of 'priming' with these variations. The best thing would be to develop a criterial
    test for what I refer to as 'letter-wise slot processing' verses the more direct
    and supercessionary pattern-based recognition style of visual word-form resolution
    that I claim emerges when reading becomes fluent.\r\n\r\nEben, 1) I misused and
    miss-spelled the latin phrase <em>mutatis mutundis</em>, thinking it meant something
    like 'in the nature of the case.' 2)  Expanding on 'facility at visual wordform
    resolution,\u2019 \u2018adequate discrimination affordances of role architectural
    particulars,\u2019 \u2018proper saliency of criterial features\u2019 and \u2018response
    bias collapse\u2019:\r\n\r\n'facility at visual wordform resolution,\u2019\r\nI
    use this instead of 'word recognition' because the term 'word recognition' doesn't
    isolate and reference clearly enough the foundational <em>perceptual</em> processing
    moment' of the sense-following mechanisms in reading. It can mislead us into thinking
    that the interesting and important part of what we are dealing with in reading
    is mainly a cognitive letter-assembly mechanism. \r\n\r\nIn my scheme, facility
    at visual wordform resolution is a learned perceptual skill which develops of
    its own accord, without conscious effort because of the optical-grammatical structure
    of writing and, once solidified, proceeds automatically and under the radar of
    consciousness. It becomes the 'response bias' of the visual system when it is
    confronted with separated written or printed text. It begins to supercede the
    letter-wise routine we must master to become skilled readers. The visual binding
    forces of serifs and rhythmic spacing make breaking the system's learned bias
    toward a kind of wholistic processing an effort-intensive process neuro-mechanically.
    These visual binding forces broker or catalyze the perceptual learning that must
    occur. Bad spacing and the abscence of serifs may make breaking the wholistic
    respones bias less difficult. They may threaten it, or they may actually privilege
    a more letter-wise neuro-mechanical routine. When the more letter-wise neuro-mechanical
    routine is induced or privileged by the typographic realization of the text, I
    speak of 'wholistic response bias collapse\".\r\n\r\n\u2018adequate discrimination
    affordances of role architectural particulars,\u2019 \r\nVisual wordform resolution
    requires that the visual system be able to 'make out'--and the visual cortex register
    and integrate--the shapes of visual components of the word at least up to the
    level of letter parts and counters. My word for letter parts is 'role architectural
    particulars'; my word for things like counters is 'role architecturally evoke
    form'. I use them because we need a set of generic terms for things like bowls
    and stems and shoulders and counters. Because the stems and counters 'afford'
    or lend themselves to being 'made out' by the visual sytem, I use 'discrimination
    affordance'. When the lighting is too dim or the contrast with the ground too
    low, or the type too small for role architectural components to be registered
    or connected with effectively or made out, the 'discrimination affordances' or
    'discrimination affordance quotients' of the font's component letters are inadequate
    for the condition of use. The discrimination affordances of some fonts are greater
    at threshlds of size or illumiation or degradation than others.\r\n\r\n\u2018proper
    saliency of criterial features\u2019 \r\nEven if the discrimination affordances
    are optimal for a given condition of use, the type may not perform well, because
    certain parts of the visual wordform that are perhaps marginal to perceptually
    resolving it's identity are given too much visual weight by idiosyncracies in
    the shaping of the letters. The forms have to be balanced against eachother so
    that all the parts that are collectively important to resolving the perceptual
    identity of the stimulus have equal visual weight. In these contexts I speak of
    'proper saliency' and 'cue value'. And it is important that salient holes and
    crashes not draw neural processing attention away from areas that are criterial
    for visual resolution of the identity of the stimulus. This mucks up processing
    from the retinal receptors up through the visual cortex. Salient here means salient
    for the visual system <em>at a receptor and neurological level</em>--not necessarily
    salient for conscious vision)\r\n\r\n\u2018response bias collapse\u2019\r\n[see
    above]\r\n\r\nHope this helps!"
  created: '2006-10-24 03:18:44'
- author:
    name: NigellaL
    picture: 111493
  body: "Hi Enneson,\r\n\r\nYou've lost me. This just sounds like a load of rubbish
    so can you translate your message into English please? Nick Shin is the only one
    here who is making any real sense or maybe it's just that I like pretty pictures!
    That border is sumptuous!!! :-)"
  created: '2006-10-24 05:29:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Come on Nigella. If we talk about 'serifs' are you going to ding us for using
    that fancy language too? Maybe Peter could wrote longer more complicated statements
    to make it easier for us all to get to - but maybe we can learn a bit of his jargon
    too. And look how nice he was explaining what he meant. Are you going to go to
    that much trouble to help educate us?
  created: '2006-10-24 06:53:56'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Actually Eben, I think Nigella's reply makes me think I still have a ways
    to go in making plain to a general audience my frames of reference. Looking back
    I see I could have done and need to do more.\r\n\r\nImmersion in numerous studies
    of word recognition convince me of the need for sharper terms of reference. Without
    that immersion it might be hard to see the need for them. And besides, I could
    be wrong. My own sense of my terms is that they open up novel, physiologically
    grounded ways of thinking through action at the micro-typographical level.\r\n\r\nI
    trust Nigella's reply doesn't signal an intolerence to relating the perceptual
    and neuromechanical processes underlying reading to typographical practices."
  created: '2006-10-24 13:09:54'
- author:
    name: NigellaL
    picture: 111493
  body: "Dear Eben,\r\n\r\n<cite>Come on Nigella. If we talk about \u2018serifs\u2019
    are you going to ding us for using that fancy language too?</cite>\r\n\r\nDon't
    be cheeky. You know full well that he uses a lot of big words. I'd ask you to
    explain them to me but perhaps you don't want to let on that you don't understand
    all of it either? Everyone knows what serifs are but the discrimination affordance
    quotients and criterial features lose me and i dare say many others. Enneson,
    thank you for understanding. I don't mean to ruin your fun, it's just that I haven't
    studied psychology or neuromechanic processes (whatever that is) so your terminology
    trips me up. I get the feeling it's all beyond me anyway and I should leave readability
    to the experts!"
  created: '2006-10-24 14:54:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Do ligatures improve readability?\"\r\nSo, then there are legibility, readability
    and usability. Do footnotes improve readability? Do page numbers improve readability?
    Italics don't but we use them to \"improve\" usability by distinguishing emphatic
    statements or those outside of the main language of a text. At some point, the
    convenient things, like ligatures, logotypes, numeral variety, style variations
    and the many other tricks that well-used type one can bring to the table are not
    as readable as something else might be, but their usability outweighs their faults.
    \r\n\r\nIf seen the worst of this by the way, from some of \"the best typographers
    in the world\" not long ago in a published sample of OT features where every single
    instance of c^t and s^t were ligated in the accompanying text. I wanted to barf,
    but I eventually got myself to gently point out that, usually these types of ligatures
    are set repeatedly only in big text, like ad use, or in pull quotes. Otherwise,
    use should be \"intelligently\" sprinkled into text to help the reader off, e.g.
    as the signal that an end of a ppg. is nigh."
  created: '2006-10-24 15:15:22'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Does this help (as a pre-amble to what I wrote earlier)?\r\n\r\nThe <em>visual
    wordform</em> is the totality of stems, counters, ascenders, descenders, bowls
    and between-letter shapes <em>in their visual relationship</em> or <em>pattern</em>.
    (I refer to sensitivities to how these elements combine as optical-grammatical
    attunements)\r\n\r\nThere are two ways of looking at word recognition in reading.
    The one says the visual system moves directly from what I have described just
    now in terms of pattern to the sense or meaning of the word. I call the perceptual
    process involved in this: visual wordform resolution, and claim it has a neuromechanical
    component which makes it, all things considered, advantageous. The other says,
    no the visual system <em>streams</em> stem / bowl / counter / ascender / descender
    information <em>according to the letters they comprise</em> and from there resolves
    the identity of the word before linking to meaning. I claim this has a neuromechanical
    component which makes it, all things considered, counter-indicated. \r\n\r\nThen
    I say visual wordform resolution is a learned mechanism, involving perceptual
    learning of the pattern, which develops in learning to read. Because the visual
    wordform resolution process requires a dependance on stems, etc. <em>in their
    pattern</em> and not the streaming of letter-part information according to letters
    ('slot-processing'), a 'respnse bias' of the visual system to that (first) kind
    of processing, when confronted with word-separated text, develops. (The problems
    encountered by 'word-blind' (dyslexic) persons demonstrate the <em>consequences</em>
    of the falure of my 'learned mechanism' to develop.)"
  created: '2006-10-24 15:37:00'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Let me put what I am anxious to communicate this way and put the shoe of
    incomprehensibility on the other foot:\r\n\r\nLigatures, where they are necessary
    to avoid holes and crashes when type is rhythmically spaced enhance the ease of
    visual wordform resolution. I've tried to detail what this means and how this
    might work.\r\n\r\nIf you prefer to say: ligatures improve readability because
    they speed up recognition and this is shown by the fact that texts with ligatures
    are read faster, go ahead. But how much is actually being said? When I ask how
    this works and why this is so, the term readability doesn't help me to an explanation,
    and the term recogntion doesn't isolate finely enough where in the process the
    advantage is acheived. To dig deeper--to be more informative--I need to expand
    my repertoire of terms and extend my knowledge of the percptual and cognitive
    mechanics. The risk of digging deeper, expanding the repertoire of terms, extending
    knowledge into 'subatomic' areas, is the perception of making relatively straightforward
    things seem more complex than necessary. \r\n\r\nIt's not for everyone."
  created: '2006-10-24 19:45:53'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: 'try this: does ligaturiztion help by making one character out of two and
    decreasing the number of parts that have to be identified (while increasing the
    number of forms the perceptual system needs to learn), or does it help by insuring
    all the components of the word image--protruding and not protuding; white and
    black--that  are important to identification have their proper visual weight and
    don''t crowd each other?'
  created: '2006-10-24 19:56:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...or does it help by insuring all the components of the word image\u2014protruding
    and not protuding; white and black\u2014that are important to identification have
    their proper visual weight and don\u2019t crowd each other?\"\r\n\r\nIntuition
    tells me this might be closer to the truth.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-24 20:15:45'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> you don\u2019t want to let on that you don\u2019t understand all of
    it either? </cite>\r\n\r\nIf you would take the time ( slow down now... ) you
    would see that I asked him what he meant. Hence I am obviously admitting I had
    no clue what he meant. AND showing that I wanted to know. \r\n\r\n<cite> Looking
    back I see I could have done and need to do more. </cite> \r\n\r\nThe more you
    can do to make your ideas accesible the better. On the other hand as you pointed
    out to me, sometime jargon is needed. Where the balance is to be struck is not
    obvious. But as I said, if you can make the text less dense for us, please do.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    the convenient things </cite>\r\nI love your thesis in general but I have a hard
    time thinking of ligatures as convenient. Conventional in an old school sense
    maybe. Contrivances to suggest class or to give color or style to text. But not
    somehow 'convenient'. Maybe you mean convenient for style...\r\n\r\n<cite> Otherwise,
    use should be \u201Cintelligently\u201D sprinkled into text to help the reader
    off, e.g. as the signal that an end of a ppg. is nigh.</cite>\r\nfi & fl too?\r\n\r\n<cite>
    Does this help..<cite>\r\nIt does help me some, but I would like to check my understanding
    of it with you in a little while. "
  created: '2006-10-24 21:22:49'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Eben said: <em>...but I have a hard time thinking of ligatures as convenient.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    would guess that a well designed ligature, ergo one that doesn't call attention
    to itself, neither improves reading nor does it hinder reading. So it really does
    become a typographic nicety. Do you think this is a valid statement? "
  created: '2006-10-24 21:48:10'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Yes, I think that it seems to be the consensus point of view anyway. With
    the provizo that some faces do need them to look their best and some faces don't
    depending on the design specifics. So it's isn't just a question of designing
    them well - it's a question of if they are needed in a design. Actually, putting
    it that way makes some of Mattew Carter said to me at Typecon about contextual
    alteration of letterforms make that little bit of extra sense. I still don't know
    if he is correct but it suggests a path that his thinking might have taken. Cool.
  created: '2006-10-24 22:44:45'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Concensus? I'm not in. \r\nIn my opinion it's a typographical nicety with
    a real functional (in reading) perceptual processing benefit."
  created: '2006-10-24 23:03:31'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: By typographic nicety I wasn't trying to turn ligatures into decoration only.
    I was simply trying to clarify my thoughts. I'm pro ligature, but I'm anti-poorly
    designed-ligature.
  created: '2006-10-24 23:17:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> I\u2019m not in.</cite> \r\n\r\nActually let me restate this idea
    I had to see if you can be on board with it instead. \r\n\r\n- Some fonts' readbility
    is enhanced by the presence of well designed ligatures. These fonts posses built
    in rhythmic and notaic problems with certain letter combinations that are best
    solved by the use of certain ligatures. \r\n\r\n- Some fon't don't require or
    benefit from ligatures because their design is such that the problems that ligatures
    address are no longer present.\r\n\r\nWhat do you think Peter? \r\n\r\nWhat I
    wonder having written that is if the variety of forms in designes that need ligatures
    is readability enhancing.... But that would & should be a new thread."
  created: '2006-10-24 23:19:05'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Eben, so, for instance, the example which Christopher posted of Utopia fits
    into the "Needs ligatures to read better." Am I following?
  created: '2006-10-24 23:32:49'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "In general yes, although his text is better I think than his visual example
    at making that point so it's maybe not the one I would use in a textbook. Will's
    example may be a better one.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/adobe-garamond-lig_6474.gif]\r\n\r\nWill
    devotes most of his time on the page this comes from to showing why he doesn't
    like them. And shows some examples of ligatures that de deems unhelpful.\r\nhttp://www.will-harris.com/ligatures.htm\r\nWhich
    is hardly surprising when you have a title like 'Ligature Shmigature'. ;-)\r\n\r\nAs
    I said before, I think he makes some great points but I haven't been convinced
    that he's got a corner on the topic.\r\n\r\nNick's points and examples seem especially
    useful too me too. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-24 23:52:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The problem always comes when we try to put a one-solution-fits-all notion
    on anything.  It may be more valuable to examine why ligatures work better in
    some situations than others.  You can frame this in a readability only issue to
    reduce variables.  I also very much like the notion of \"usability\" David mentioned
    above. When do principles other than readability take a greater roll to increase
    the chances of the printed piece meeting the author/designer's objectives? Receiving
    a wedding invitation from a friend may be an instance. This kind of thing is so
    subjective it may be impossible to test.  Nevertheless, it is valid and how design
    work is really done. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-25 01:08:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The problem always comes when people refuse to learn anything new.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-25 01:44:46'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<em>This kind of thing is so subjective it may be impossible to test. Nevertheless,
    it is valid and how design work is really done.</em>\r\n\r\nAha! My point exactly
    (well, one of them, anyway). There may be better and worse design, but not in
    a completely objective sense.\r\n\r\n<em>I also very much like the notion of \u201Cusability\u201D
    David mentioned above.</em>\r\n\r\nUsability is indeed an interesting topic: as
    with readability, in my opinion one simply cannot talk about usability without
    talking about culture and education. Of the myriad variables that affect usability,
    many have to do with traditions and habits. People learn to use things -- from
    kitchen knives to computer interfaces -- and not every person in every culture
    grows accustomed to using the same things in the same manner.\r\n\r\nTake a kitchen
    knife, for instance: most chefs will give high usability ratings to heavy knives
    with large blades; my wife (who is not a chef) only likes small knives, and her
    preference has nothing to do with having small hands or not being able to lift
    a large knife. It's just that she never learned how to properly \"operate\" a
    chef's knife, so to speak.\r\n\r\nSomeone who can appreciate the refinement of
    a good ligature will find it aesthetically pleasing in Chris's wedding invitation;
    someone who's never seen one before may find it strange, especially if the text
    is large and the ligature is clearly visible.\r\n\r\nI have great respect for
    Peter Enneson, but am not yet convinced that the perceptual processing benefit
    ligatures may bring to someone is independent from that person's education and
    culture. Enneson's suggestion that we go deeper and consider not readability as
    a whole but the different \"sub-atomic\" factors that define readability sounds
    to me a little like discussing how a certain substance can help a brain-dead person
    because it causes the person's heart to beat. (I am, however, completely open
    to the possibility that I haven't studied this subject enough to be able to question
    Enneson properly.)"
  created: '2006-10-25 02:11:04'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>So, then there are legibility, readability and usability.</em>\r\n...and
    [[readerability]].\r\nwhen Eben asked me my opinion on this topic in an email
    a few weeks back, i replied that i believed that ligatures are a \"typographic
    nicety,\" but that my views on readability issues tend to follow John Hudson's
    ideas about the ability of readers to adapt. i think \"ligatures do (or do not)
    improve readability\" is tough to argue, because it's all about specifics. there
    are so many variables that may or may not improve readability that it's probably
    next to impossible to isolate them to measure them: serif vs sans, leading values,
    spacing issues, x-height, point size, medium, &c. &c. all this talk about readability
    might possibly be a red herring which detracts from the amazing ability of the
    reader to adapt to a wide range of reading environments."
  created: '2006-10-25 02:46:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Oh no, John Hudson Jr.\r\nPaul, think with your brain, not somebody else's
    soul.\r\n\r\nA human might be able to adapt to a diet of plankton and seawater,
    but that doesn't detract from the observation that he will be neither happy nor
    healthy (even if he never sees what other people are eating).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-25 03:18:05'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>A human might be able to adapt to a diet of plankton and seawater,
    but that doesn\u2019t detract from the observation that he will be neither happy
    nor healthy (even if he never sees what other people are eating).</cite>\r\n\r\nSorry,
    I don't think that's so obvious. I do indeed think that someone could be happy
    eating just that -- if he never ate anything else, and especially if everyone
    else were eating it. He might come to be repulsed by apples, or peanuts, or Doritos.\r\n\r\n(The
    \"healthy\" part isn't comparable, since there's essentially no chance of anyone
    becoming unhealthy from ligatures.)\r\n\r\nI think people, throughout history,
    have adapted to horrific conditions and considered themselves happy... which begs
    the question: If everyone is happy, who's to say it's horrific? Yikes, can we
    just talk about the Big Bang or evolution or something instead?"
  created: '2006-10-25 04:23:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "We can talk about how humans are not ethereal, abstract beings, that they
    are instead physically affected in the most subtle ways by the most subtle things.\r\n\r\nSome
    people weave tapestries of argument premeditated to give themselves maximum comfort,
    to buttress their deepest beliefs, to preserve their way of life. But you're not
    them.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-25 04:42:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Yikes, can we just talk about the Big Bang or evolution or something
    instead? </cite> \r\n\r\nMaybe on another site. This site is about type! ;-) \r\n\r\nI
    may agree that the analogies can get pretty fruity at times here. But I think
    we are all doing our best even if that doesn't always seem good enough to some
    of us some of the time. You all have my respect & thanks for considering this
    issue, debating this with me & educating me in the process!\r\n\r\nI do think
    that a careful reading of this thread shows that ligatures are not just a typographic
    nicety in all cases. Sometimes, but in fact - rarely. Sometimes they really do
    seem to improve a design ( even though nobody can PROOVE it ). Sometimes they
    seem to get in the way ( even though nobody can PROOVE it ). And sometime they
    don't seem to do much at all. They seem vitrually neutral, not improving nor detracting
    from a design. In which case we can call them a 'typographic nicety' ( even though
    nobody can PROOVE it ). I think this case is the unusual one however - and I cannot
    proove it). \r\n\r\nAnother way of looking at it, and this was the way I was looking
    at it when Tiffany made her point before - is that when a ligature does work well
    it's working because it isn't drawing attention to itself and it is working neither
    better nor worse than the glyphs around it. It's not distictive from a readability
    point of view from the glyphs around it. So it might be said to be average in
    some sense except for it's exotic connection & hence a 'typographic nicety'.\r\n\r\nJohn
    Hudson's point about the profound power of the reader is of course an excellent
    one. But I don't think that it obsolves the type designer of the responsibility
    to be interested in incremental improvement and of being curious about how that
    improvement might be achieved. For the record, I am not admonishing anyone just
    stating my point of view.\r\n\r\nI will also readily admit that the topic name
    I chose for this thread was as usual pretty naive!\r\n\r\n<cite> might possibly
    be a red herring which detracts...</cite>\r\n\r\nI do agree that the specific
    examples that people brought up showing relative success & failure in specific
    cases were by far the most useful things in the thread."
  created: '2006-10-25 05:14:45'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Paul, think with your brain, not somebody else\u2019s soul.</em>\r\n\r\nHrant,
    you should know that i do my own thinking. C'mon, give me some credit. just because
    i put more stock in readerability doesn't mean that i think making typefaces that
    are readable is futile. just because i CAN read fuzzy on-screen type or smudgy
    type or type spit out by Microsoft Office doesn't mean that that's what i'm most
    comfortable reading. It's hard for me to make any judgements about readability
    because, as far as i know, there is not much reliable research on the subject.
    (if there is, please enlighten me as to what i should be reading) What troubles
    me most when reading threads like these is that everyone has their own theories,
    but how would anyone go about proving or disproving them, which leads me to:\r\n<a
    href=\"http://typophile.com/node/29048\">What is needed for scientifically sound
    reasearch on reading?</a>"
  created: '2006-10-25 14:13:02'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<em>there are so many variables that may or may not improve readability that
    it\u2019s probably next to impossible to isolate them to measure them (...). all
    this talk about readability might possibly be a red herring which detracts from
    the amazing ability of the reader to adapt to a wide range of reading environments.</em>\r\n\r\nAbsolutely.
    We had a similar discussion on the ATypI list recently, and if you don't mind
    the cross-posting, I think part of the discussion fits here perfectly. I remarked
    that \"I believe graphic and type designers can learn quite a bit from complex
    systems theory, aka chaos theory.\"\r\n\r\nDavid Berlow's reply (hope he doesn't
    mind my quoting him here) was: \"What is/are the initial condition(s)?\"\r\n\r\nAnd
    this was my subsequent post:\r\n<dl><dd>And can you control all initial conditions
    so that they're all exactly the same (except for the one you're trying to test)
    every single time? In our specific case here, \"hardly\" is probably the answer,
    especially if we're trying to arrive at absolute laws of legibility.</dd>\r\n\r\n<dd>But
    if we reduce the number of variables by dealing with one specific target audience
    (one culture, a limited age range etc) and one medium, then I believe that a well
    designed experiment can make a whole lot of difference to a design process. You're
    not looking for a single universal \"objective\" truth -- an immutable law --
    but merely trying to determine how this or that design will work for a given target
    audience, <em>on average</em>.</dd></dl>\r\n\r\nAs Paul Hunt pointed out, a very
    large number of variables would be involved in a purely objective analysis of
    whether or not ligatures contribute to legibility/readability, especially if the
    goal is to arrive at absolute laws that apply to the whole human race. And right
    now not enough research has been conducted to warrant definite conclusions as
    to whether ligatures help the human brain process printed text more efficiently/effectively.\r\n\r\nSo
    what? Does this mean typographers should stop using ligatures, or not trust their
    instincts? I don't think so. Perhaps what we can do is have a healthy scepticism
    (not paranoia, though) of our intuition and every now and then check if a specific
    design works for its target audience."
  created: '2006-10-25 14:23:49'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<em>What troubles me most when reading threads like these is that everyone
    has their own theories, but how would anyone go about proving or disproving them
    (...)</em>\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/28777/164203"
  created: '2006-10-25 14:54:37'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Eben, all:\r\n\r\nAfter reading Will Harris' short piece I have decided he's
    definitely over-simplifying and many of his examples are poor and lack real merit.
    (Maybe I'm over-simplifying too.)\r\n\r\nHis point about the odd shape made by
    the fl ligature in a few of his examples is good, however, and I've noticed this
    myself before. I've even not used the fl ligature on occasion because it does
    create an h-like shape.\r\n\r\nOne flaw, I think in what he is saying are in his
    examples. He's basically using what can be seen as display settings. But the usability
    of a ligature is in text settings and for small point sizes so what he is showing
    us doesn't wash with me. I'd rather see a paragraph at a reader's point size and
    then form my own opinion. OF COURSE, the ligature might call too much attention
    to itself at dispaly sizes, duh! \r\n\r\nIf the letters don't \"crash,\" to use
    his word, then perhaps that is when ligatures aren't needed. I agree with this.
    But again, his samples, only in a few instances, really prove his point. The Caflisch
    sample, for instance, I think, is better for the ligature as the tittle creates
    visual noise, display or text, which needs to be taken care of.\r\n\r\nIn some
    cases, for text setting (and maybe display), where the tittle doesn't crash, I
    wonder aloud if the ligature doesn't simply remove a bit of data that we simply
    don't need because we recognize the letter pairing without it.\r\n\r\nI feel out
    of my league with the rest of you, but this is a great thread. "
  created: '2006-10-25 16:50:06'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Erik, what are you trying to link to? this thread?
  created: '2006-10-25 16:56:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Paul, I apologize.\r\n\r\n> i put more stock in readerability\r\n\r\nMore
    stock than in what? A gentle improvement in readability thanks to the (<cite>judicious</cite>,
    please) use of ligation? Well I do too. But I put even more stock in lamb kebab,
    and that doesn't stop me from addressing readerability.\r\n\r\n> doesn\u2019t
    mean that i think making typefaces that are readable is futile.\r\n\r\nNot readable;
    that's easy (exactly because of readerability). <cite>More</cite> readable; that's
    hard. That's what makes most people run away, but some not before using readerability
    as a smoke screen.\r\n\r\n> there is not much reliable research\r\n\r\nAgreed.\r\nThis
    however does not absolve people from considering the evidence that <cite>is</cite>
    out there, and most of all from <cite>thinking</cite>. The Ancient Greeks figured
    out tons with sticks and ropes. Now we paralize real progress with our addiction
    to Proof, afraid to think deeply and try to dig out of this Empirical prison.\r\n\r\n>
    What troubles me most when reading threads like\r\n> these is that everyone has
    their own theories\r\n\r\nWhat's even worse is these theories tend to be self-serving,
    and furthermore there is little overall desire to actually listen to something
    new. It becomes an excuse to listen to yourself.\r\n\r\nThis realization is why
    I no longer fully participate in threads like this, and I get short-tempered when
    some people go on and on without the will to actually learn anything, at least
    not something that would alter their approach to type design (because to them
    it's too close to Art, something that should -rightly however- be excluded from
    empiricism). Don't get me wrong, Typophile is better than anything else out there,
    but -even after all these years of trying- it still doesn't seem good enough for
    more than possibly sparking an interest among the truly curious, the true craftsmen.
    Eben, Peter, they are very rare exceptions.\r\n\r\n> hope he doesn\u2019t mind
    my quoting him here\r\n\r\nHe might not, but since the ATypI list isn't a\r\npublic
    one, it's inadvisable without permission.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-25 17:24:51'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<em>Erik, what are you trying to link to? this thread?</em>\r\n\r\nThis thread,
    comment 164203. The link should take you to a page with only the thread leader
    (or whatever you call the post that opened the thread) and the comment in question."
  created: '2006-10-25 17:48:20'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: interesting, it wasn't working for me before, but now it is doing exacly as
    you said it would!
  created: '2006-10-25 18:00:54'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> and many of his examples are poor and lack real merit </cite> ( Tiff
    ) \r\n\r\nI do think the examples were cherry picked. It would be very interesting
    to go over 100 or so of what might be argued are the best text faces, look at
    them in context etc & see what we think. Still if you trim down his conclusions
    as being somewhat premature I think he has interesting points to make - even if
    I don't subscibe to his conclusions. I am glad to hear your take on that page.
    \r\n\r\n<cite>  ...wonder aloud if the ligature doesn\u2019t simply remove a bit
    of data that we simply don\u2019t need because we recognize the letter pairing
    without it. </cite>\r\n\r\nExactly.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-25 22:19:59'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Exactly\"\r\nAnd precisely. And ligatures are not there to speed reading
    up, they are there to prevent reading from slowing down."
  created: '2006-11-07 14:28:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Those two could mean the same thing, but since reading is never\r\nat full
    speed it's better to look at it from the \"speeding up\" angle.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-07 14:38:35'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "To borrow a term from Willim Berkson, I think we should explore the notion
    that there might be a speed-of-reading 'sweet spot' which changes from individual
    to individual and from text to text. The spot whould be the speed at which the
    sustainability of immersion with effective engagement and good comprehension is
    at it's greatest. \r\n\r\nDavid, I like the angle: \"And ligatures are not there
    to speed reading up, they are there to prevent reading from slowing down.\"\r\n\r\nIn
    research on reading, speed is often the measure. This should not trick us into
    thinking of it as an end."
  created: '2006-11-07 15:05:10'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "It seems to me that speed can never be ignored. I can see a very clear distinction
    between efficiency (speed at which letter shapes/word forms/word clusters are
    correctly recognized) and efficacy (speed at which comprehension occurs), but
    speed is a component of both.\r\n\r\nComplex as research on reading efficiency
    may be, it's probably child's play compared to research on reading efficacy. After
    all, comprehension quickly leaves the realm of visual processing and enters a
    nebulous domain populated by variables such as intelligence (or intelligences),
    attention span, education, culture, cognitive strategies, length and complexity
    of sentences, and so on.\r\n\r\nIf I take myself as an example, I'm well educated
    by most common standards, score above average on traditional IQ tests and exams,
    am a very efficient reader, but not a very efficacious one in that I read rather
    slowly when I need to actually comprehend a text. I suppose I'm not very good
    at concentrating and need to re-read some passages, especially when the writing
    is convoluted and when there are many levels of nested structures in a sentence.
    Could typography improve my reading efficacy? I really don't know."
  created: '2006-11-07 16:57:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Peter, no.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-07 16:59:14'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Erik, until there is really complex sophiticated research done you have every
    right to be skeptical. But I am guessing that yes, type is a variable & that your
    speed and comprehension will be different in different types and obviously with
    different typography - line spacing etc. Experientially - that is my subjective
    experience & I basically trust it. Of the two it's the arrangment of type on the
    page and the line spacing etc that matters most but yes, I think the forms are
    important too.
  created: '2006-11-07 17:08:48'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Hrant, what is your problem with David''s distiction? Or is that what you
    are reacting to? I think David''s point is not just clever - it''s useful. David,
    sorry if I am over-interpreting your words here but this is what I am getting
    from them: Ligatures don''t cause speed to increase - they avoid slowing the reading
    speed permitted by the overall design. It ''s the overall design that creates
    the potential for speed. In the same way that a well made road allows greater
    speeds to be driven safely - a well made font ( & ligature if needed) does not
    cause speed but makes it potentially avaiable. A well made ligature if it''s needed
    is like a potential fault removed from the road. Not so much a feature as a problem
    avoided. '
  created: '2006-11-07 17:17:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Perhaps what Erik is saying is that better typography may be able to improve
    perception of glyphs and word recognition, and reduce fatigue,  but not aid much
    in decifering meaning when either the writing is convoluted or the terms are unfamiliar?
    Separating perception from understanding of meaning is a big issue and difficult
    to measure predictably.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-07 17:20:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Eben: atypically, Peter's most recent post was entirely regressive. So I
    don't need to tell you which part I disagree with: just go through it and it's
    every single thing.\r\n\r\n> Ligatures don\u2019t cause speed to increase - they
    avoid slowing\r\n> the reading speed permitted by the overall design. \r\n\r\nI
    can't believe I have to point out that this is completely bonkers. There is no
    \"overall design\" - it's <cite>all</cite> the overall design. After all this
    abstractive progress we've been making, please don't regress into textbook classicist
    compartmentalization.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-07 17:29:15'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Regressive?\r\n\r\nPerhaps it's unclear where I was heading with this.\r\n\r\nI
    have to be cryptic, because for now I've overextended myself on Typophile and
    must attent to other things.\r\n\r\nI'm positing: \"sustainability of immersion
    with effective engagement and good comprehension\" as the overall goal of efforts
    to improve reading performance and readability. I could also say: sustainability
    of sense following over time and text-extent relative to the varient conditions
    of reading.\r\n\r\nIn cognitive processing terms, with extended texts, there can
    be a too fast and a too slow, and this relates to the capacities of short term
    memory and the integration of it's contents into one's 'world'. The speed at which
    a balance of comprehension and holding on to the thread of narrative or argument
    is 'found' (or occurs) in practiced readers who don't suffer from reading disorders
    varies, but hovers about a mean. \r\n\r\nType plays it's role in enhancing the
    sustainability of this sense-following by not placing 'maintaining it' at risk
    for reasons of perceptual processing fatique or expense of neural effort in overcoming
    neural-attentional diversion, which holes and crashes do. Ligatures address that."
  created: '2006-11-07 18:14:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I have used the expression 'sweet spot' refer to some kind of ideal balance
    of weight of strokes, dimension of counters, width of spacing and evenness of
    color (etc.!) that results in the most comfort of reading. \r\n\r\nI haven't thought
    that the 'sweet spot' for text will vary with the person. I do think different
    optical sizes will require a different balance of the factors. Also it will be
    affected by measure and leading. But beyond that I have maybe the simplistic notion
    that reading process among competent readers with good eyesight or good corrective
    lenses is pretty similar. \r\n\r\nThere isn't any grand theory here, just a notion
    that there is some ideal balance of factors to shoot for, at a given optical size,
    line measure and leading. "
  created: '2006-11-07 18:27:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The important thing is comfort. Speed and comprehension are merely\r\nits
    results, and they are linked; they only become unlinked in the lab.\r\n\r\n> Type
    plays it\u2019s role in enhancing\r\n\r\nType doesn't \"enhance\" anything - it
    is what we read.\r\n\r\n> Ligatures address that.\r\n\r\nEverything addresses
    that.\r\n\r\n> I haven\u2019t thought that the \u2018sweet spot\u2019 for text
    will vary with the person.\r\n\r\nOf course it does. But it's just a variance,
    not a difference.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-07 18:27:35'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<em>better typography may be able to improve perception of glyphs and word
    recognition, and reduce fatigue, but not aid much in decifering meaning when either
    the writing is convoluted or the terms are unfamiliar</em>\r\n\r\nYes, that's
    exactly what I meant. Obviously, in order to comprehend a text one first needs
    to be able to recognize the bits that make it up, namely letter shapes and word
    forms. I have no doubt that good typography can make a world of difference in
    this process.\r\n\r\nWhen it comes to making sense of all the printed words that
    have already been decoded, however, I'm not quite sure how good typography helps,
    even if I suspect that it does. Perhaps Hrant et al are right: it's all a matter
    of comfort. The more comfortable the reading, the longer one can read and the
    more energy one can devote to interpreting meaning (since less energy is expended
    in recognizing glyphs and words).\r\n\r\nWhen I read something long on a computer
    screen, I start getting restless because of discomfort and this may cause me to
    pay less attention to the text, even if I have no trouble making out letters and
    words.\r\n\r\n<em>Type plays it\u2019s role in enhancing the sustainability of
    this sense-following by not placing \u2018maintaining it\u2019 at risk for reasons
    of perceptual processing fatique or expense of neural effort in overcoming neural-attentional
    diversion, which holes and crashes do.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, that makes sense. I guess
    that's the conclusion I came to in the previous paragraph."
  created: '2006-11-07 20:26:23'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "The important thing is comfort. [Hrant]\r\n\r\nOk. So: I\u2019m positing:
    \u201Csustainability of immersion with comfort, effortless sense-following, and
    maximal comprehension grip\u201D as the overarching goal of typographic and pedagogical
    efforts to improve reading performance and readability. "
  created: '2006-11-07 20:41:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"When I read something long on a computer screen, I start getting restless
    \"\r\nI have a theory that reading long text on a computer screen may cause problems
    unrelated to just monitors, resolution, and rendering. I think being in a fixed
    position looking at the screen is also an issue. With a book or magazine, I can
    quite easily move it around, lay sideways, on my back sit up turn my head any
    old way--basically move. I don't have to care about much other than enough light.
    With a computer, there is more fixed than free and more conditions to meet.  I
    just don't like reading anything long on screen. Maybe it is just the human need
    to fidget :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-07 20:50:30'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Hrant, I see, I think you are asserting an ontological point. You feel that
    speaking of speed as 'a measure' goes against your assertion that the phenomena
    of speed, comprehension etc. descend from the existence (or lack) of comfort.
    \r\n\r\nStill, what do suggest Peter & Kevin do to avoid this 'split\" in the
    lab or in discussing tests etc? They have no choice but to but to parse the phenomena
    and to ultimately think in terms of various kind of discrete phenomena - don't
    they? \r\n\r\nHow does asserting ontological primacy of comfort help us?"
  created: '2006-11-07 22:02:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't think it would be crazy to try to measure readability outside the
    lab. It would take longer, and some really oldschool -I'm talking ancient- cleverness.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    Kevin and I actually seem to be in synch concerning comfort/speed.\r\n\r\n> How
    does asserting ontological primacy of comfort help us?\r\n\r\nFor one thing it
    would stop certain people from trying to sway a possible productive consensus
    by saying that we're wasting our time because we're going on about finishing a
    book half an hour sooner and that's dumb.\r\n\r\nProgress is in your head, and
    people can play head games with you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-07 22:22:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "For those who want to get more practical about this Notan stuff I have started
    a new thread to post & discuss examples of typographic Notan here:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/29362 "
  created: '2006-11-08 00:29:08'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"It seems to me that speed can never be ignored. I can see a very clear
    distinction between efficiency (speed at which letter shapes/word forms/word clusters
    are correctly recognized) and efficacy (speed at which comprehension occurs),
    but speed is a component of both.\" [Erik]\r\n\r\nRight, speed can never be ignored.
    In science it's a measure, or an index. And as an index it's a useful tool to
    indicate if the variation of the variable that is being varied makes a difference.
    I'm not trying to unseat the value and validity of that.\r\n\r\nRelative to your
    \"I can see...\" I might want to add: ...and both are a component of speed."
  created: '2006-11-08 13:08:37'
- author:
    name: degregorio
    picture: 110554
  body: "http://letritas.blogspot.com/2006/05/10-consejos-al-trabajar-con-ligaduras.html\r\n\r\nEn
    mi humilde opini\xF3n, hay claves que pueden potenciar la legibilidad, pero en
    una ligadura la est\xE9tica es muy importante.\r\n\r\nIn my humble opinion, there
    are elements that can improve the legibility, but in ligature the aesthetics is
    very important."
  created: '2006-11-08 15:13:25'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Eben:\r\n> David, Ligatures don\u2019t cause speed to increase - they avoid
    slowing the reading speed\r\n\r\nUh oh, Hrant.\r\n> I can\u2019t believe I have
    to point out that this is completely bonkers. There is \r\n> no \u201Coverall
    design\u201D - it\u2019s all the overall design. After all this abstractive \r\n>
    progress we\u2019ve been making, please don\u2019t regress into textbook classicist
    \r\n> compartmentalization\r\n\r\nI'm not compartmentalizing idly. In order to
    answer the question originally posed, ligatures had first to be defined as \"required\",
    and then re-compartmented with other typography used in the interest of defeating
    distraction while assisting comprehend-ability. I will never use \"speed\" again:
    Ligatures don\u2019t cause comprehend-ability to increase - they avoid retarding
    it. \r\n\r\nThey are not alone, A-Z, Dotless-i, $, -, and more, are used in the
    same overallness, or something. I'm hoping, that Hrant's point is \u2014\_from
    the first line of the first letter of the letter drawing,  to the last minute
    detail of the last detail of the composition is the \"all\", and any disturbance
    of the all is as good as many disturbances?\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-15 13:30:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What I was opposing was the perception that there's this thing that only
    uses a prefab set of discrete parts and is read at some sort of maximum, and anything
    added just has to be careful not to mess things up. This could only be true for
    computers, not humans. Otherwise we should be using Morse Code.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-15 19:52:17'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Ligatures don\u2019t cause comprehend-ability to increase - they avoid
    retarding it. </cite> David, this is a sweeter way of putting it. It's more lucid
    & less baggage laden. I would amend this further in this way: 'Well designed ligatures
    included in typefaces in those cases where they are actually needed don\u2019t
    cause comprehend-ability to increase - they avoid retarding it.' \r\n\r\nTo get
    past Hrant's objection that you are creating a model of reading with the statement
    you might offer the corrolary that 'In those typefaces that need ligatures you
    would see comprehend-ability to increase when well designed ligatures are included.\"
    \r\n\r\n<cite> and any disturbance of the all is as good as many disturbances?
    </cite>\r\nI am sure you meant something by this but I think the langauage actually
    written can't get me closer to what you meant. I would be willing to say that
    any distubance of the 'all' is relevant. Is that what you meant? Hrant, was this
    all on the page in your mind or does it include the possible sound of a child
    in the room?\r\n\r\n<cite> read at some sort of maximum </cite> \r\n\r\nI think
    you are absolutely right to insist on avoiding that 'model' of reading.\r\n\r\nI
    think what I was getting at is that any design ( for anything ) has a built in
    'maximal' potential use ( defined in whatever way you like ) but that that maximum
    is just potential. It doesn't mean that it is desirable to reach per se, or even
    'reach for' in real life use. That also does not deny that achieving certain testable
    maximums might not enhance comfort. But your main point if I get you, I agree
    with - a test ( even a theoretical one) is not a valid theoretical model of reading
    in itself."
  created: '2006-11-15 22:21:58'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\u2018Well designed ligatures included in typefaces in those cases where
    they are actually needed don\u2019t cause comprehend-ability to increase - they
    avoid retarding it.\u2019 \r\n\r\nEben, why think mainly in terms of comprehension
    here? Why not think in perceptual processing terms of the avoidance of retarding
    the efficiency of visual wordform resolution and efficacy of appropriate salience
    mapping to that end?"
  created: '2006-11-15 22:36:41'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "When ligatures work ( or don't) I think the impacts aught to be thought about
    perceptual processing terms to be sure, and in terms of comprehend-ability and
    in terms of simple measures such as speed, and ... many many things. There are
    lots of ways of slicing this. \r\n\r\nSo as far as I can tell I don't disagree
    with you on that.\r\n\r\nSo; far from advocating one particular way of slicing
    this - my point had to do with the unusualy contingent or accutely provisional
    context in which ligatures are designed. That being, ligatures may be needed:
    badly, a little, or not at all. In contrast, an 'A' or 'a' of some kind is always
    needed. And ligatures themselves are suited to their font's actual needs (or not)
    by degrees. Even though I liked David's axiom very much in some ways - these factors
    seemed left out of it. \r\n\r\nThat's the problem with saying something pithy
    & axionmatic about ligatures. All the factors count and there are almost too many
    of them."
  created: '2006-11-15 23:50:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \"In those typefaces that need ligatures you would see\r\n> comprehend-ability
    to increase when well designed\r\n> ligatures are included.\"\r\n\r\nAh, but here's
    the -or actually just one- rub:\r\nA text font, especially a bookish one, is itself
    not well-designed (for example I might predict that the \"f\" is too shy, or that
    the spacing is too loose) if it doesn't need ligatures! It might be a necessary
    \"technical\" compromise, but that makes it not \"maximal\" as this line of reasoning
    assumes.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nEben, knowing your \"plans\" for ligature integration,
    I don't understand how you can be so cavalier about accepting \"negativist\" opinions
    about them.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-16 16:18:35'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> if it doesn\u2019t need ligatures! </cite> I think the point I was
    making is separate because I was thinking ( assumptions at work - look out! )
    of display & text at that time where as you are always in text mode. ;-) Also
    that phrase does not include references to maximality per se -just to improvement.\r\n\r\nBut
    to address your point, if I get you: I have not firmly concluded that what your
    saying about text faces is utterly true. But my very strong suspicion is that
    in spirit what you are is quite correct. Partly it's because I know I have alot
    more looking and study to do before I could possibly have seen for myself that
    this is so. But in addition to that I am still keen on the idea that ligatures
    are just one kind of contextual alteration that could be applied to improve text
    faces. \r\n\r\nThey are the most obvious because they seem to break the 'rule'
    that glyphs don't touch in Latin. They might also be the most gross in terms of
    the size or scope of the alteration. I have not assembled a good list of contextual
    alterations yet so again, I am working on it. \r\n\r\nBut again, given the options
    of ligatures ( or no ) in a text face with and assuming the options we are conventionally
    aware of, I think I would simply agree. That partly because I think ligatures
    achieve a better notanic relationship than the design solutions created to avoid
    needling ligatures do. \r\n\r\nI am also starting to characterise what I think
    is going on there - I think ligatures offer a richer or more complex notanic relationship,
    and that is maybe one of the reasons they are valuable to a text face.\r\n\r\nBut
    in terms of my own theory with specific emphasis on text faces; the ideas fighting
    for equity in my mind now are wheather the ligature is perhaps great but flawed
    approach. Maybe in a 'perfect' font a ligature is a little too inflexible a solution.
    Maybe ligatures are a kind of protrotype alteration that hints at a better way.
    \r\n\r\nThe rival idea is that ligatures are just one of a broader range of partially
    undiscovered/documented pro-notanic alterations that are possible the 'rightness'
    of which are purely need/context based. As of today the later idea is winning.
    \r\n\r\nThe underlying question that separates these two ideas the degree to which
    a type designer can ever hope to control the way in which the face is used. Obviously
    there are lots of instances in which fonts are basically abused. But in general
    there is a trend towards font awareness and appreciation, care, respect, etc.
    And in the case of a special, perhaps bespoke face for immersive reading, [ Hi
    Tiff! there's your word ;-) ] maybe the type designer could start to expand their
    influence to issues of leading, word space & so on. In the case where the type
    designer succeeds in that the place of ligatures is stronger. If you are designing
    with robustness or 'abuse resistance' in mind this is less true. \r\n\r\nAnyway,
    thats the way the shades of grey are swirling for me at this time."
  created: '2006-11-16 19:59:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Here's what I wanted to say all along, which also may be what Hrant is driving
    at above. \r\n\r\nLigatures are I think in principle a liability for reading in
    a separated script like latin script. However, the overhanging f is a nice differentiating
    feature in seriffed faces. It is enough of a plus that when you subtract out the
    slight negativity of introducting ligatures to avoid crashes, it still comes out
    a plus. So ligatures are a kind of compromise that is overall beneficial, but
    a compromise none the less. \r\n\r\nSo f-ligatures, good. Other ligatures (st,
    ct etc.) bad in text as they are not necessary to compensate for problem crashes.
    Of course, in display you can have Zapfino or whatever, but that is a horse of
    a different color. "
  created: '2006-11-17 03:09:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>Other ligatures (st, ct etc.) bad.</cite>\r\n\r\nAt the time they were
    invented  the st ligature made sense of course because it was for the long s we
    no longer use. People probably had afffection or familarity for the form for a
    long time so it lingered beyond the point of visual utility - because it had been
    made into a cultural-visual cue. But then the eye prevailed.   \r\n\r\nI don't
    have a similar idea about the ct. Does it stem from a blackletter utility perhaps?"
  created: '2006-11-17 04:24:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Ligatures are I think in principle a liability for reading in a separated
    script like latin script\"\r\nThis is just an unfortunate mix of terms. :) \r\nLigatures
    are in principle a liability for reading in separated styles of the latin script.
    \r\nMaking room for, absence of ligatures being a liability for reading in ligated
    styles (connecting scripts), of the latin script, as such absences can be mistaken
    for a space, or make connections ungainly.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-17 23:55:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I? also jus red this:\r\n\"What I was opposing was the perception that there\u2019s
    this thing that only uses a prefab set of discrete parts and is read at some sort
    of maximum, and anything added just has to be careful not to mess things up. This
    could only be true for computers, not humans. Otherwise we should be using Morse
    Code\"\r\n\r\nOh?  I believe for each instance of use, there is a prefab set of
    discrete parts that may be composed and read at a maximum, for a given audience,
    with range of audience maxima enabled by dynamic control over some of the discrete
    parts. This is true 4 humans as we do use morse code if that is the perfect set
    of discrete parts that may be read at a maximum for a given audience. For most
    uses, however, it is so low in the \"tone of voice\" department, we use at least
    Arial. Yet this Arial m or whatever our computer shows youthis text in, comes
    to you via litt'le blinking lights, eventually exciting other litt'le lights,
    much closer to morse than Snell Roundhand, e.g. to ligate to my previous post.
    \r\n"
  created: '2006-11-18 00:13:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Eben, your first post of 11/16 was very good.\r\n\r\nLatin is only a \"separated\"
    script formally. That's fine for teaching it, not fine (and not real) for reading
    it. Not using ligatures is what's a[n arbitrary] compromise. Even an \"r\" touching
    a \"y\" is a ligature, and that's a common, conscious, pragmatically intelligent
    \"compromise\". But really, when you take into account notan, <cite>everything
    is a ligature.</cite>\r\n\r\n> ... for each instance of use ...\r\n\r\nFine, but
    then we disagree about what instances actually apply to when/whom.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-20 19:49:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> very good </cite> Thanks.\r\n\r\nBTW. I was noticing some thin ct
    & st ligatures the other day. They were not so thin as to appear anemic but at
    the same time they were far less obtrusive than most of the others I have seen.
    I thought, I could read that. This loooks RIGHT. That would be pretty comfortable!
    I could live with that. Now who's font was it... I'd love to post an example.
    I will if I see it again. I think I found it on Flickr somehow. But the point
    is it really brought it home to me that the nominal combination for a given ligature
    isn't destiny/fate and there really is room left in which to take things further. "
  created: '2006-11-20 22:01:22'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Maybe in a \u2018perfect\u2019 font a ligature is a little too inflexible
    a solution. Maybe ligatures are a kind of protrotype alteration that hints at
    a better way. [Eben]\r\n\r\nEben, how does what you are after differ from a systematic
    and contextually sensitive ligation that approaches the condition of cursive writing
    or Arabic connected scripts?"
  created: '2006-11-21 00:40:03'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> contextually sensitive ligation , cursive etc.</cite>\r\n\r\nHere
    is what I was getting at:  Let's take the Wy design Nick showed us a while back.
    ( I tried to dig it up to link to & failed. Sorry. ) He could have made a ligature
    but he didn't. He made contextual alteration where the h has a shorter serif on
    the left side so it sits with the Cap w nicely. Did you see it? If he had made
    a ligature it would have been designed with the assumption that you have a certain
    range of letter spacing & no more. It's not utterly brittle kind of thing - but
    compared to non-ligating letter designs, ligatures are more brittle. By brittle
    I mean when failure does occur - it's BAD and quite obvious. In contrast, contextual
    alteration permits far more letterspacing before letterspacing causes a failure
    of equivalent severity and that failure is probably near the point of failure
    for the type face as a whole. So non-ligating contextual alteration might have
    a benfit that trumps ligatures.* If so, it would be yet another reason to dig
    into it with gusto! :-)\r\n\r\nBut now I will undermine that arguement a little.
    The subtlety of very high quality notanic interaction of glyphs probably also
    depends on letterspacing not getting out of hand. The ratios of tollerance before
    the 'point' of the design is lost maybe nearly identical to that of ligatures.
    So, if the point of the design is to be finely tuned and optimized it may be that
    the kind of robustness I had been talking about is not relevant to contextual
    alteration for text faces. \r\n\r\nOn the other hand it might well be that each
    case has it's own dynamics and it's a very mixed situation. That's why I am keen
    to collect lots of samples and watch what's happening. But every experiment needs
    a hypothesis or two! ;-)\r\n\r\n* Hrant of course, argues that any near-ideal
    text face will need ligatures and so the point of avoiding them is mute anyway.\r\n\r\nIn
    thinking about differences between what I am after & cursive or Arabic I am kind
    of knocked out by the enormity of the question. I don't know how much letterspacing
    if any is acceptable in Arabic fonts. That would be something I would need to
    know. I can imagine there is a little bit but I bet that in that case & in the
    case of scripts there is a built in brittleness of a different kind than you would
    see in a face with only occasional connections. How is that for a start? Maybe
    you have a different point to make. Do you?"
  created: '2006-11-21 04:32:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> So non-ligating contextual alteration might have a benfit that trumps ligatures.\r\n\r\nUnless
    you look at it from a notanic perspective instead of a black one, and realize
    that, in the end, non-touching contextual alternates are just another way to ligate.
    That's why Legato is called Legato btw.\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t know how much letterspacing
    if any is acceptable in Arabic fonts.\r\n\r\nReversing the black-white assumptions
    here as well, I would propose that the Arabic kasheeda (the extension of the horizontal
    line, usually to help justify a line, although quite often for aesthetics) is
    on some level equivalent to Latin letterspacing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-21 04:41:08'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> I don\u2019t know how much letterspacing if any is acceptable in Arabic
    fonts.\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/19609\">Arabic writing</a> is cursive
    (linked). That means that the same character has up to 4 different graphic forms,
    according to whether it is linked with the previous character, with the following
    character, with both, or with no other character.\r\n\r\nAs in Roman text, and
    depending on each font, Arabic consonants can form \xABligatures\xBB. In a manner
    analogous to what happens when you write \xAB\u0153\xBB instead of a separate
    \xABo\xBB and \xABe\xBB, 2 or 3 Arabic consonants can merge into one synthetic
    glyph with its own length, four position-representations, and kerning behaviour.\r\n\r\nSince
    Arabic characters are linked together, you can\u2019t change the letterspacing
    (also known as positive tracking) simply by adding short spaces between characters
    as in Roman text: the links would display as non-continuous ones. In this case,
    short pieces of link (called kashidas) between Arabic characters are automatically
    inserted. In other words: there are 2 ways of performing full justification in
    Arabic: either by magnifying the spaces between words as in Roman, or by automatically
    adding small kashidas after each linked character to make the words longer.\r\n\r\nIn
    addition to letterspacing and automatic kashida, there exist 2 other means of
    modifying the horizontal size of a word:\r\n\u2022 Adjusting the width of characters\r\n\u2022
    Entering a manual kashida-character from keyboard, as you would do when using
    primitive word-processors.\r\n\r\nIn general, using the automatic kashida settings
    is a far better solution: after a text-reformating, if some kashidas become unnecessary,
    elastic style-kashidas will automatically disappear, while keyboard kashidas will
    have to be removed manually.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/19348\">My
    font</a> has the additional feature of making Calligraphic full-justification
    with the help of prolonged overlapping swashed final forms."
  created: '2006-11-21 06:36:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I do find Nick Shinn's idea of contextual adjustment of characters--instead
    of just kerning--intriguing. Nick may have already implemented this in a font--he
    will tell us, I hope. \r\n\r\nAziz's reference to the kashida in Arabic script
    is also apt and interesting. In Hebrew also, in spite of the fact that it is a
    separated script (even in cursive), traditionally scribes would extend letters
    to fill out lines. In latin script, written with lower case, scribes, if I remember
    correctly, would fill out the line by extended swash terminals, rather than by
    stretching a character. \r\n\r\nThe reason for the difference in scribal practice,
    I think, is a difference in structure of the glyphs. In Arabic and Hebrew the
    horizontals are thick and the verticals thin--the reverse of latin characters.
    The horizontals also play a much more prominent role. \r\n\r\nIf you consider
    the latin lower case, there are no pure horizontals. The f and t cross bars are
    paired with arches, and the e cross bar is connected with a circle. The r could
    be a candidate also, but it is a partial arch also. \r\n\r\nAs opposed to the
    latin lower case, the resh in Hebrew has a single straight, thick stroke to the
    left--and it typically is a glyph stretched to fill out a line for justification.
    For this reason, I am a bit skeptical about how much contextual alteration in
    the lower case can be done. Of course I think Nick is suggesting subtile changes
    to help color, so this might lead to improvements, even if small ones. \r\n\r\nCurrently
    what comes closest to kashidas for latin script is the stretching or squashing
    of the whole character by up to 2% to justify a line--a capacity of InDesign.
    \r\n\r\nThe latin caps are a different story, as you have the 'H-LEFT' which have
    pure horizontals. And here I think there is more opportunity of contextual alterations,
    eg of the L in the LA combination. Similarly, you could shorten one or both arms
    of the T in the Th combination, which is common in English.   "
  created: '2006-11-21 14:25:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The idea of non-ligating contextual alternates is pretty much as old as type
    itself.\r\nAnd wasn't it in this thread that Raph referred to ATF's alternate
    \"gy\"?\r\n\r\n> Aziz\u2019s reference to the kashida\r\n\r\nYour condition seems
    to be deteriorating by the thread...\r\n\r\n> I am a bit skeptical about how much
    contextual\r\n> alteration in the lower case can be done.\r\n\r\nNah, you just
    don't want the letters to change.\r\nOne obvious place is the \"r\": making it
    gently ascend, as needed.\r\n\r\nBTW, Latin has something very useful in terms
    of\r\njustification that Arabic/Hebrew don't: the hyphen!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-21 17:28:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Your condition seems to be deteriorating\r\n\r\nDo you really have to flame
    me when I don't even address you or discuss your views? \r\n\r\n>Latin has something
    very useful in terms of\r\njustification that Arabic/Hebrew don\u2019t: the hyphen!\r\n\r\nOne
    of my no doubt rigid and mentally distorted beliefs is that Hebrew does have a
    hyphen, the makaf, which is used along the tops of letters."
  created: '2006-11-21 18:00:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Nick may have already implemented this </cite> - William\r\n\r\nHe
    said that he had when he showed us the example here on typophile. Did you not
    see that? Can anybody point me to it. For some reason I can't find it.... But
    I am glad that you see that the idea holds some potential! It seems to me that
    the greatest potential for improvement in type design today lays down that path.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    For this reason, I am a bit skeptical about how much contextual alteration in
    the lower case can be done </cite> - William\r\n\r\nIt seems like the wy might
    be one place to look... But that's  <a href= http://typophile.com/node/29362>another
    thread</a>. However, I absolutely agree with you that the characteristics of the
    letters themselves must color the ways in which alteration can be accomplished.
    But that also shows why there will be variety. The forms have a huge range of
    variety. So while we could probably develop semi-predictive theory about where
    to check for opportunity for successful alteration based on inherent structural
    chacteristics I am more interested in looking for examples and then analysing
    what I have for patterns later on. The human eye & mind are pretty wonderfully
    adaptive. I have a feeling that like the L example on the <a href= http://typophile.com/node/29362>other
    thread</a> we will find that style & a host of factors and circumstances that
    make it possible to adjust letters in a myriad of surprising & delightful ways.
    \r\n\r\nSo, if you see examples of pro-color or pro-notanic adjustment would you
    point me or send the examples?  I am starting a collection which I will share
    for free; (I hope) via a searchable database driven web site. Unless of course,
    there are so few that that is overkill. But we shall see. My best guess is that
    there will be a TON. \r\n\r\n<cite>kashidas</cite> - Aziz\r\n\r\nAziz, thank you
    for explaining about arabic connections & kashidas. I was wondering, have you
    ever seen an arabic typeface that has extended connections so the overlap is exagerated?
    I have an idea that doing that would maybe allow for some additional spacing without
    using kashidas. Maybe this is naive. What reasons might there be for avoiding
    that solution?\r\n\r\n I was thinking that for searchable text you would maybe
    not want to have kashidas present. Of course you could (maybe) write your search
    engine so that it tosses kashidas out... Do you see what I am getting at? Are
    kashidas used very much or is it something that is rare? \r\n\r\n<cite> That\u2019s
    why Legato is called Legato btw. </cite> - Hrant\r\n\r\nYou mean a the non-litteral
    definition\r\nlegato\r\n     adj : (music) without breaks between notes; smooth
    and connected;\r\n           \"a legato passage\" [syn: smooth] [ant: staccato]\r\n
    \    adv : connecting the notes; in music; \"play this legato, please\"\r\n           [ant:
    staccato]\r\n\r\nYes, okay. I remember reading that on Evert's site. (I wonder
    if it's still in the google cache ) But do you see the distictions I was getting
    at? I am not sure that the distictions I was making preclude agreeing with you
    that contextual alterations are <cite>just another way to ligate</cite>. I have
    said & will say again that what we recognise as ligatures are in fact just a subset
    of solutions to a given problem whose disproportionate mental prominance can only
    be explained by our thrill in observing the  obvious 'rule breaking' they engage
    in. <strong>Ooooh! They touch!</strong> Still, it this disproportionately emphasized
    visual distinction does also have a practical/fuctional impact re: letterspacing
    that raises it's own questions. I don't see the conflict or contradiction there.
    I would like it if you addressed them more specifically! And if the two ideas
    are somehow opposed, please explain why that is. "
  created: '2006-11-21 18:05:34'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"Your condition seems to be deteriorating...\" [Hrant]\r\n\r\nGive it a
    rest Hrant. Why must you infect so many threads with this kind of invective. "
  created: '2006-11-21 18:12:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I didn't know about the makaf! Thank you Aziz.\r\n\r\n> Are kashidas used
    very much or is it something that is rare?\r\n\r\nThe kasheeda is quite common.\r\nBut
    you can't just put it anywhere - there are rules, although I\r\ndon't know them,
    and they might actually not be fully formalized.\r\n\r\n> You mean a the non-litteral
    definition\r\n\r\nI mean the reason Evert called it Legato.\r\n\r\n> Ooooh! They
    touch!\r\n\r\nThis never happens to an immersed layman (unless something has gone
    really wrong).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-21 18:15:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> have you ever seen an arabic typeface that has\r\n> extended connections
    so the overlap is exagerated?\r\n\r\nI don't get this.\r\n\r\nBTW, something else
    I've seen in Arabic to help justification\r\nis a special wide and flat \"kaaf\"
    (although it's not common).\r\n\r\n> Why must you infect so many threads with
    this kind of invective.\r\n\r\nPress release: \"I'm sorry.\"\r\nBut it's nice
    to see that you care, Aziz.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-22 18:33:23'
- author:
    name: thacket
  body: "Greetings to All,\r\n\r\nThis is a very interesting discussion.  I am not
    a typophile, but I am a great admirer of functional and timeless beauty; qualities
    that most typefaces certainly possess.  By circumstances beyond my control, I
    have been pressed into typographical service to publish some technical papers
    for my company.  As a result, I have been doing a little research into readability,
    legibility and comprehension (which in my newbie ignorance I have determined to
    be seperate, but overlapping issues).  I am not, nor will I ever be, a professional
    typophile, but I have read all of my life (end user alert! talk slow and use small
    words!).  Now you have all of the information to studiously ignore my uninformed
    opinions as you wish (I have been married 32 years; plenty of practice having
    my opinions ignored).\r\n\r\nI said all of that to say this.  Since I have read
    just about anything printed, I have been exposed to many fonts and typefaces with
    and without ligatures.  The one thing I have noticed is that when the flow of
    my reading is interrupted because I perceive a hitch in spacing in the word structure,
    one of the reasons (there are others) is because of both the absence and presence
    of ligatures.  This bump in the reading flow can occur for me at even small point
    sizes (8).  The factors that come into play for me are:\r\n\r\n1.  If a ligature
    is present and I bump over it in text, it is usually because the ligature looks
    cumbersome; the font does not lend itself well to construction of proper ligatures
    or the ligature structure was poorly implemented in that particular font.\r\n\r\n2.
    \ The opposite is also true; if a ligature is absent and I notice it, the font
    could probably benefit from a well constructed ligature or better general construction.\r\n\r\nThese
    are just an amateur's opinions; ligatures make reading for me better when they
    fit well with the font and make it worse when they don't and the opposite is also
    true.  This kind of reminds me of the Ford vs Chevy discussions that we have here
    at work (warning! lowbrow content!).  They both have strengths and weaknesses,
    but both must be used for what they are best suited and that is ususally strictly
    in the eye of the beholder (or the end user).  \r\n\r\nThanks for listening.\r\n\r\nAll
    the Best,\r\nJohn\r\n\r\nP.S. - I have started using the font Baramond which,
    I believe is derived from Garamond Antigua.  The implemention of ligatures in
    this font I find pleasing."
  created: '2007-03-06 21:07:31'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Thanks for your post John!
  created: '2007-03-06 21:31:49'
date: '2006-10-12 21:03:15'
title: Do ligatures improve readability?

---
