---
author:
  name: Choz Cunningham
  picture: 111714
body: "<strong>Update: The post has been altered to reflect a name change in the proposed
  ligature.\r\n\r\nLatest posts discuss drafts of User's Guide and Design Recommendation
  document.</strong>\r\n\r\nFrom <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/28562\">another
  thread</a>:\r\n\r\nQ.\r\nNigellaL:  <em>What in the bloody hell is an \u2018irony
  mark\u2019????????</em>\r\n\r\nA.\r\nThe Greatest Punctuation in the History of
  Mankind.~\r\n\r\nLong A.\r\nI've been waiting for someone to bite on this. The Snark*
  (formerly 'irony mark') is a proposed sentence terminator designed to imply a second,
  often sarcastic, or otherwise verbally ironic, meaning to the preceding text. Intended
  use is where the intimation of the second meaning might otherwise be lost, because
  of missing vocal inflection, or other missing contextual hints. This means it is
  intended to be sparingly used, and normally in informal communications.\r\n\r\nThis
  is based on the 19th-21st century ideas of the \"<strong>point d\u2019ironie</strong>\"
  (proposed by the French poet Alcanter de Brahm and, later, Herv\xE9 Bazin)and the
  \"<strong>sarcasm mark</strong>\" (proposed by Tara Liloia, Josh Greenman and many
  others). I suggest one marker for both contexts, and I consider the term \"Snark\"
  more inclusive.\r\n\r\nThe Snark, in this suggested format, looks something like
  an exclamation mark, laid on its side and bred with a tilde, modified to suit the
  typeface it is in.\r\n\r\n<strong> The mark is in redesign status, discussed in
  thread below.</strong>\r\n---\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ironymark_3799.jpg]\r\n<em>Quick
  & dirty examples in two common faces</em>.\r\n--\r\n\r\nPast suggestions from others
  have included a reversed question mark, an inverted exclamation, and braketing the
  statement with any/all rarely used ascii characters. My proposal offers several
  advantages other proposals have thus far lacked:\r\n\r\n<ul>It is distinct, and
  the appearance may be suggestive of a wry, caustic, deadpan or mock-serious intonation.
  (An exclamation- \"knocked over\"?)</ul>\r\n\r\n<ul>It is familiar to those who
  follow the convention of enclosing sarcastic remarks in tildes in text chat programs,
  one of many competing popular conventions.</ul>\r\n\r\n<ul>It doesn't give away
  any note of sarcasm until the end of the passage, which may support more comedic
  timing.</ul>\r\n\r\n<ul>Similar markings are not in use currently, in any Latin-alphabet
  writing system (as far as I know), so it is unlikely to be confused with other punctuation.
  The Ethiopian use of '\xA1' is unlikely to get mixed with Spanish text, but in U.S.
  English, this may get confused, in bilingual work, with a Spanish '\xA1' preceding
  the next sentence.</ul>\r\n\r\n<ul>Despite its distinctness, it is simple to draw
  and read, making it more adoptable.</ul>\r\n\r\n<ul>The wavy stroke is reminiscent
  of the ':S' emoticon used sometimes to denote a glum or mixed emotion.</ul>\r\n\r\n<ul>It
  is very easy to roughly emulate in any text by typing a period followed by a tilde.
  This glyph pair is also devoid of other meanings. I find this to be the nicest feature.</ul>\r\n\r\n<ul>An
  OpenType aware application can catch the '.'+'~' pair and automatically substitute
  the (inherently) similar looking Snark, making it potentially <em>very</em> simple
  to adopt. I predict OpenType features in non-typographic applications will become
  the norm. (Office 2015?)</ul>\r\n\r\nAt this time, I have included the character
  in all current !Exclamachine branded typefaces, and plan to continue to do so, as
  well as add it to old ones. A design guide is available at :  http://www.exclamachine.com/snark
  showing how I have adopted it to several very different decorative faces, and what
  I would consider essential to making one. I will add the OT code I use for automatic
  replacement of the '.'+'~' string tomorrow. I encourage other designers, if they
  please, to consider this, and perhaps add it to their fonts. I envision someday
  requesting inclusion in the Unicode standard, as does Kevin Larson (for the French
  design). Why not? Interrobang made it, and that's just an ambiguous ligature.\r\n\r\nRelevant
  links (To make this look official & important.~):\r\nhttp://www.liloia.com/archives/000211.php\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Irony_mark\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sarcasm_mark\r\n\r\nhttp://linusfurious.blogspot.com/2006/04/punctuational-proposal.html\r\n\r\nhttp://blogs.msdn.com/fontblog/archive/2006/01/04/509299.aspx\r\n\r\nhttp://www.pointdironie.com/\r\n\r\nhttp://www.slate.com/id/2111172/fr/ifr\r\n\r\nhttp://blogs.msdn.com/fontblog/archive/2005/12/22/506936.aspx\r\n\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com/snark\r\n\r\n<em>*name
  proposed by Geo Ben. All those in favor say 'aye.' Good. -Choz </em>"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I'm not sure if I like this or not. On one hand, if it becomes common, people
    will realize when I'm just writing above their level and not being snide. On the
    other hand I don't really give a damn about people too stupid to pick up on context
    clues in the first place.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "This is not a meant to be a replacement for the joys of subtlety in conversation.
      I use it myself, through the '.~' proxy, to add clarity in busy realtime chats.
      With close friends, one linear dialog may have several concurrent threads (because
      we both type simultaneously), and the timing of sarcasm may be inadvertantly
      lost. In a mixed online videogaming team, I may be speaking in a mixed group
      of long-time, new- and non-friends simultaneously, and it helps all understand
      more similarly what I am really saying.\r\n\r\nConversely, I stay in touch with
      my family via standalone IM and we have yet to have any need for it, even when
      my sister and I are comparing the finer points of our work in less than enthusiastic
      terms.\r\n\r\nSuffice to say, if we put it there, it can be used when it suits.
      And, still, some peole will abuse it.You know the sort: \"OMG.~ STFU! LOL!1!!
      Hi.~ I &lt;3 U.~ Yer smart.~\"\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type
      Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
    created: '2006-10-14 21:40:27'
  created: '2006-10-14 20:50:18'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "It kind of looks like an ellipsis to me, \r\n\r\nIt will be quite impressive
    if this takes off. The last new character to come into common use that I know
    if is the Euro currency mark, and that had more than a dozen governments pushing
    its use. "
  created: '2006-10-14 22:12:52'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: I don't think that this will take off. Even the interrobang was never really
    successful. But that is way ahead of this mark. Didn't Mencken suggest this in
    the 30s? If it hasn't caught on in the mean time, I wouldn't hold my breath.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "I'm not holding my breath. I'm singing. Activism in type!\r\n\r\nI don't
      see the interrobang as being 'ahead' of this character. Its adoption stems from
      other issues. It offers no communicative value over !?  and/or ?!, and is less
      clear than either of those, as it removes the inflection that ordering the marks
      offers, towards being rhetorical or actually a question. Additionally, there
      are unicode spaces for both, allowing individual glyphs, if a designer prefers.
      Those preceded the late inclusion of the interrobang. I find it mostly 'cute'
      but redundant. The comparisons are unfortunate, however, since the purpose of
      the irony mark isn't to be visually 'smart' (though I think it is), but to convey
      a new meaning to a sentence, that neither '.' or '~' does.\r\n\r\nThe irony
      mark (in one form) was first suggested in the late 19th cetury, according to
      the Wiki-p, and recirculated in the late `60s. The interrobang, Martin K. Speckter's
      1962 invention,  was, in my opinion, inspired by the comic and newspaper book
      use of '!?', since the 1920's. I think some of Menken's ideas were better than
      others. This one keeps popping up.\r\n\r\nRight now, people are beginning to
      use the tilde, along with lots of other hacks to convey this idea anyway. I'm
      suggesting standardizing, more than inventing, and inviting others to do so.
      By \"cheating\" with OpenType we might expedite adoption.\r\n\r\nIf it looks
      too similar to a point of ellipsis, that sounds important. Any suggestions on
      improving that? An up-sweep, more curve?\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine
      Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
    created: '2006-10-14 22:53:32'
  created: '2006-10-14 22:18:27'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'I think that with time it could catch on. Like you pointed out, ordinary
    people have been picking up the tilde from math/programming nerds, so I think
    that if this eventually found its way into fonts used for personal communication,
    it could become common quickly. '
  created: '2006-10-14 23:14:46'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: At display sizes or at the end of a line I don't think it would be easily
    mistaken, but in an extended body of text it would resemble an ellipsis in quick
    reading, as it presents similar color and spacing issues. Overemphasising the
    uptick of the baseline tilde could get the form interpreted as a sideways question
    mark instead of a sideways exclamation point. Keeping the whole assemblage longer
    than an ellipsis in the same font might limit the confusion, but present more
    spacing issues. Both seem to visually indicate a verbal hesitation or sustained
    fade, and that's not always intended in an ironic comment.
  created: '2006-10-14 23:40:30'
- author:
    name: Geo Ben
    picture: 111945
  body: "As the new kid on the block, perhaps I would be better advised to avoid controversies,
    but.... irony is a pet subject of mine...\r\n\r\nI think that before coming up
    with \"ironic punctuation\", we might become better versed in irony, specifically
    it's tripartite persective. As a synonym for <em>sarcasm</em>, it loses much of
    it's power.... and it is a powerful rhetorical tool. \r\n\r\nsee: <a href=\"http://etext.virginia.edu/cgi-local/DHI/ot2www-dhi?specfile=/texts/english/dhi/dhi.o2w&act=text&offset=9554416&query=irony&tag=IRONY\">DOHI</a>\r\n\r\n\r\ngeo."
  created: '2006-10-14 23:43:47'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Just a random thought:\r\n\r\nIn this age where communication has been dumbed
    down to chatting we depend so much on emoticons that I think we've lost some of
    our ability to use words. I'm completely guilty of this myself. I find myself
    feeling the urge to use emoticons when I write to people just to make sure they
    know what emotion I'm trying to betray. \r\n\r\nI wonder if we really need an
    irony mark?"
  created: '2006-10-14 23:50:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think this is true of films too Tiff.  Seem much great dialogue in movies
    made recently? Even pop stuff like Star Wars--look at the difference between the
    dialogue in the old original 3 films and the current 3 pretenders.  the whole
    world has forgotten how to write or eventalk (unless theyre on a cell phone :-(.
    No wonder people need an \"Applause sign\" on TV audiences.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-14 23:55:11'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "To be fair, cued applause has been used ever since television programs were
    first performed before a live audience, and likely has its roots in Vaudeville
    or even earlier forms of theatre.\r\nBut I'm not a theatre expert. Why do I feel
    compelled to spell it that way?!"
  created: '2006-10-15 00:03:16'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "That is a wonderful link! The illustrated sarcastic examples in the orig.
    post were chosen for their inherent brevity. In this proposal, verbal contradiction
    as irony, as well as the surreal and tragic are all assumed to be identified with
    one mark, most likely used at the 'revelation', which may be the end of sentence
    or passage. This still leaves something for a clever reader or writer to play
    with, too.\r\n\r\nIt could be appropriately used, amongst other places, where
    one has concocted an entire hoax: Wells's \"War of the Worlds\", Menken's \"Bathtub
    Hoax\", Hendersen's \"The Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster\", etc. At the
    very end, after taking in the audience for the entire duration, it could be something
    of a \"gotchya\", or escape clause (at the author's discretion, of course).\r\n\r\nPresumably,
    the most common uses might be in sarcasm's identification, or to denote false
    innuendo, but I feel there is no limitation to simply that.\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-15 00:06:31'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I use emoticons because they work. I try not to do it too much, but it is
    an effective tool. I don't think any written system will every convey all that
    the spoken word offers, but writing has its own advantages. This just might be
    something that contributes to helping it do even more. And, it isn't as smarmy
    as a ;) or a 8-O\r\n\r\nKeep in mind we romaticize the past. Excellent literary
    works  from the European nobles were written on the backs of an immense illiterate
    poor class. And while we remeber the genius of works like Star Wars (originals),
    we forget that 20 craptastic movies came out with glaring ly pointless pulp dialogue
    those same summers. Speaking of which, Pulp fiction and Memento are pretty recent
    examples of simplistic speech worked to high effectiveness.\r\n\r\nThe potential
    of the irony mark could be exploited in very creative ways by contemporary authors.
    I would be fascinated to see what Kurt Vonnegut or Mark Z. Danielewski could do
    with the idea, much the way the run circles around our minds with the poetic play
    of existing words and formatting.\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type
    Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-15 00:18:10'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Miss Tiffany - \r\nI don't think we \"need\" it, but it would be nice. I
    don't need power tools to build a house, but dang it if I don't take advantage
    of them!\r\n\r\nSometimes, I feel the same way about 'U' and 'V'. The only word
    that justifies having both is 'Uvula'.~\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-15 00:32:17'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: :-) .~
  created: '2006-10-15 00:54:20'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: This is a <strong>really</strong> good idea.~
  created: '2006-10-15 01:21:09'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I think if anything we don't need <em>any</em> more punctuation; an irony
    mark is an excuse for a weak vocabulary, poor grammar, and further complicates
    the lives of people who have no interest in ever consulting style guides to learn
    how punctuation should be used.\r\n\r\nBut I'm also not going to take it upon
    myself to convince the people of the world that they should be better writers.
    So anything that makes reading the gibberish that most people spew out these days
    is a big help. I recently used the word aegis in a sentence and was the only person
    in the room who knew what the word meant. If I have to keep communicating with
    people like that, I'll throw in the towel and accept whatever help comes my way. "
  created: '2006-10-15 01:30:03'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I wasn't making a call for all the world to improve their communication skills.
    It was a random thought brought about because of this new thread and the idea
    of an irony mark. I also wasn't romanticizing about the past. Unless, of course,
    we no longer consider good communication a part of our present, then I might have
    been. \r\n\r\nI use emoticons too. They are very useful in online communication.
    \r\n\r\nMy bad. I'll keep my thoughts to myself. As you were. :^P"
  created: '2006-10-15 03:13:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I\u2019ll keep my thoughts to myself\"\r\n\r\nAS IF!!!  (:^P\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-15 04:51:25'
- author:
    name: eron s
  body: "<cite>Even pop stuff like Star Wars\u2014look at the difference between the
    dialogue in the old original 3 films and the current 3 pretenders. the whole world
    has forgotten how to write or eventalk\r\n</cite>\r\nreminds me of <a href=\"http://www.digitalpimponline.com/strips.php?title=movie&id=22\">this
    comic</a> "
  created: '2006-10-15 05:39:17'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Jpad--\r\nI doubt more punctuation will complicate their lives, if they never
    check style guides. Just ours.\r\n\r\nAnother thing to consider, there is a chance
    that that this time in the history of English that we have the exactly right amount
    of puctuation, but then, perhaps we have too many already. Hypothetically, what
    might you remove, to simplify things?\r\n\r\nMs. Tiffany--\r\nI always look forward
    to your responses, they are always more coherent and more on-topic than, oh, say,
    mine. How would you say that chatting (meaning via live real-time text?) has dumbed
    down communication?\r\n\r\nWhether or not something assists communication seems
    to vary. It depends on what and how we are comunication. There are lots of different
    tools used for different documents: line numbers in pleadings, carets in editing,
    emoticons in chat, footnotes in theses, and so forth.\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com\r\n\r\nP.S. If we need to get rid
    of some crufty old punctuation to make room for the  irony mark, my vote is on
    some of the plethora of quotation-like marks."
  created: '2006-10-15 06:03:28'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "At least for me, the criteria for good communication is how close the interpreted
    meaning come across relative to the speaker's/writer's intention.\r\n\r\nDoes
    the concerns of medium and tool still matter, then? Of course, but after clarity.
    My guideline is, if they help to clarify your message, then use it. If not, then
    don't.\r\n\r\nI admit that it's a sin that I still do so many times :)\r\n\r\nAnd
    let's not go into the whole \"the medium is the message\" philosophy, that's so
    PoMo .~"
  created: '2006-10-15 07:12:35'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Cuttle fish: <em>Both seem to visually indicate a verbal hesitation or sustained
    fade, and that\u2019s not always intended in an ironic comment.</em>\r\n\r\nYou've
    got the idea of exactly what I am going for. A touch of the verbal flavor, but
    not a caricature of it. Irony may be conveyed sometimes with nothing more that
    a natural tone and quick flick of a single eyebrow, and I would like to get that
    in there, too. Perhaps increasing the height of the right end, and keeping the
    left end of the stroke very narrow? Or squashing more? More of a sideways squat-exclamation
    than a dot-tilde look. Approximately N width, not M?\r\n\r\nHere is a better example
    of non-sarcastic use of the irony mark, as well as a study of design in body text:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sarc2_6387.jpg]\r\n\r\nHere,
    the mark is used once to imply that some subtext exists in the preceding sentence,
    and it is not as irreverent as first appears. Next, it suggests a wry smile or
    knowing smirk, recognizing the implicitly false nature of the statement. I feel
    it makes both declarations less banal. \r\n\r\nFrom a technical view, tiny Verdana
    is an extremely easy to manipulate  screen font. The period (and the component
    dot of other punctuation) is 1x2 pixels @ 16 point size. In this case, I typed
    a double space after it, leaving an approximately N-width 'hole'. Then, I manually
    added a tilde just above the baseline, within the 2 pixel height of the period,
    and left 2 pixels between the stroke and the dot; that's an attempt to make it
    look less like an ellipsis. Here's the same example, starting with a very anti-aliased
    64pt string: [img:sites/default/files/old-images/sarc64_4998.jpg] In this case,
    a tilde was compressed to 40% vertial and 70% horizontal, then thickened and placed
    to mimic the above sample. However, at this scale, a little more polish should
    go into the design.\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-15 07:23:49'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "A deflated exclamation mark lying in a gutter.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-15 12:21:59'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/typeoff/237150957/\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/237150957_06621bfe50_6203.jpg]</a>\r\n\r\nsince
    we are on the tangent of inflating and deflating marks\u2026"
  created: '2006-10-15 12:29:32'
- author:
    name: Geo Ben
    picture: 111945
  body: "I would imagine that we all could imagine a variety of 'stage direction'
    punctuation marks for the indiscerning reader, but implicit in their absence is
    that there are subtleties of language that empower it far more than the marks
    could. \r\n\r\nIf you have to explain a joke, the joke failed. Explaining that
    a hurtful comment was intended as humor only increases the hurt, not the humor.
    Advising the reader that you are be 'being ironic' is rather like removing the
    petals of the rose to reveal the source of its beauty. \r\n\r\ngeo."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "<em>Advising the reader that you are be \u2018being ironic\u2019 is rather
      like removing the petals of the rose to reveal the source of its beauty.</em>\r\n\r\nA
      dramatic, yet beautiful metaphor. However, this is about writing, not language.
      I wonder if Closed Captionists, mobile text messagers, poets concrete and all
      others subscribe to such an ideal. \r\n\r\nSimilarly, alarm or a desire for
      a response could be invoked through text and subtext, yet marks for each are
      somewhat popular. \r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
    created: '2006-10-15 13:57:25'
  created: '2006-10-15 12:31:32'
- author:
    name: Geo Ben
    picture: 111945
  body: "of course, M. Cunningham, you are right about the message versus the medium
    (though that was sidestepped sometime back), but as m. mcL suggested, the two
    cannot be separated, any more than cause and effect (form/content, space/time)
    can.\r\n\r\nre: the mark itself, it is rather charming actually (as opposed to
    the interrobang, which i think ugly as hell), but in use, at best superfluous
    and at worst, a disservice to the reader.\r\n\r\nBut, i suppose i have already
    sufficiently belabored that point.\r\n\r\ngeo."
  created: '2006-10-15 14:49:34'
- author:
    name: NigellaL
    picture: 111493
  body: "i'm sorry I asked.\r\n\r\nAnd irony is not a synonym for sarcasm by the way.
    One could suppose that's the real irony here."
  created: '2006-10-15 17:18:29'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "I think this is a great idea. I love when a common way of thinking is challenged.
    \r\n\r\nWhile I like the idea of this, I think there's one problem with it. In
    body copy, it's just plain ugly. This mark disturbs the flow of reading with a
    jarring break in a paragraph. Maybe the mark could go <em>under</em> the last
    word of the sentence, or <em>above</em> it?\r\n\r\nMr. Lozos and Ms. Wardle bring
    up good points about internet communication and using emoticons to describe sarcasm
    or irony. I find the :) or the :/ to be less jarring when typing a message. Internet
    emoticons have yet to find their way in \"printed\" written communication, however.
    \r\n\r\nShould we then be talking about emoticons as being adopted into written
    language? Just a thought...\r\n\r\nLet's hope that we'll still be capitalizing
    words and spelling them completely out. When was the last time anyone saw the
    word \"doughnut\" and not \"donut\" or \"drive-through\" for example?"
  created: '2006-10-15 17:45:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "n ur nt jus kidn :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-16 02:04:29'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Biddy: <em>In body copy, it\u2019s just plain ugly. This mark disturbs the
    flow of reading with a jarring break in a paragraph.</em>\r\nIs this because it
    is simply unusual? Is jarring caused by the ugly or vice versa? Any suggestions
    on design to suit body text? I dunno if emoticons can be made to look good in
    type. I find them irksome, though unavoidably effective, in even screen-based
    messages (perhaps  because there are so many variants that I have to decode the
    ideographic qualities of each).\r\n\r\nNigella: <em>... One could suppose that\u2019s
    the real irony here.</em>\r\nWiki sez: \"Irony is a literary or rhetorical device
    in which there is a gap or incongruity between what a speaker or a writer says,
    and what is understood.\" I believe that \"incogruity\" encompasses the entirety
    of <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Irony#Verbal_irony\">sarcasm</a>, which
    lives alongside many other types of paradoxical absurdist, and metastatic writing.
    And nothing in Alanis's song. (Someone had to mention it, but why me?)\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\nThe
    Awesome & Convenient Power of Anecdotal Evidence (<em>this is not science, I know</em>)\r\n\r\nI
    mentioned the irony mark and discussion to someone typing away on a sidekick today.
    They were a generation older than what I might have assumed the average text messager's
    age , but they say they use it constantly with their spouse. During the several-second
    conversation, their eyes lit up, and they said it made total sense. So, I sum
    up the survey of 1 whole person as:\r\n\r\n1. they said they thought they would
    use the idea.\r\n2. it was nice that the tilde be for something finally.\r\n3.
    the best part was that it was simple to use and easy to explain.\r\n\r\nI couldn't
    have hoped for a better reaction.\r\n\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-16 03:22:53'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Design activists should spend their time on great causes like the irony mark!~
  created: '2006-10-16 04:38:15'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Alanis, nay the entire world, would really benefit from the irony mark.~
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: LOL
    created: '2006-10-16 05:13:20'
  created: '2006-10-16 04:40:18'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Sarcasm is a crueller form of irony, intended to mock, wheras irony may be
    self-deprecating. As Geo. says indicating sarcasm merely increases the intended
    hurt. To avoid the jarring criticism perhaps you should look at a more vertical
    solution, most horizontal marks en, em dashes and ellipsis are pause marks.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-16 11:28:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"To avoid the jarring criticism perhaps you should look at a more vertical
    solution,\"\r\n\r\nWould that not be the height of ignorance?~\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-16 13:14:23'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "If we could get an agreed upon look for this mark, I'd put it in a character
    set in a heartbeat.\r\n\r\nChoz: I mentioned above another way of doing it...but
    let me elaborate. What if the tilde was below the baseline and curved upward to
    meet the period on the baseline? Or vice-versa, above cap or ascender height and
    curving downward. Just a quick idea, don't have time to do a mock-up to see whether
    that would work. Or, \"D\" but like a backwards \"G\" with a dot (A capital \"D\"
    with dotted \"i\" inside)."
  created: '2006-10-16 14:52:02'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"In this age where communication has been dumbed down to chatting we depend
    so much on emoticons that I think we\u2019ve lost some of our ability to use words.\"\r\n\r\nIMHO,
    emoticons *are* punctuation. And have filled this need just fine in the medium
    that is the chat-based web."
  created: '2006-10-16 15:45:10'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: So all we have to do is convince the grammar teachers to start teaching a
    new rule. Should be no problem. That is an extremely flexible group &lt; insert
    sarcasm mark here>
  created: '2006-10-16 15:56:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Don, Watchout for the blue-haired lady in tweed! One of those grammar teachers'
    rulers is headed your way :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-16 17:03:32'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Better the ruler than Maxwell's Silver Hammer....  :-) \r\n\r\n(Note: emoticon-captioned
    for the humour-impaired.)"
  created: '2006-10-16 17:39:26'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: Geez Linda, was that sarcasm? I couldn't tell 'cause you used a smiley-face
    instead of a tilde-thingy-with-a-dot.
  created: '2006-10-16 17:47:32'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I'll work on some mock-ups of what you described, and a few other ideas.
    I'd really like to keep a relationship to the tilde in there somehow, as I see
    that as the distinct advantage over earlier proposed solutions, offering backwards
    compatability and ease of use.\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-16 18:15:54'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I plan to revise the Irony Mark guide on my site to reflect refinements based
    on this discussion, as well as update the fonts that already include it. At the
    <em>very least</em>, I will be shorting the recommended length, and improving
    white space. Anybody here who contributes will be credited, and I would be happy
    to begin a linked list of what fonts feature it.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/altironymarks_5191.jpg]\r\n\r\nVerdana
    unsmoothed 12 pt, TNR unsmoothed 14 pt.\r\n1. Almost original proposal. Tilde
    scaled 85%w, dropped 2pts.\r\n2. Colon-like. Tilde scaled 80%, left alignment
    with period\r\n3. Dropper. To right of period, scaled 75% (both axes), then rotated
    right 90\xB0 and aligned with period top.\r\n4. Floater. Full size period, moved
    into descender and aligned to period right.\r\n5. Dropped G. Flipped with redraing
    to incorporate period.\r\n\r\nI am pretty sure I didn't do quite what Biddy was
    describing in most of these. I suspect that 6 is the most innacurate draft, but
    anything else I tried looked far too 'heavy' to not impede word flow.\r\n\r\nI
    like 2. I also like 4, but that might conflict with descending letters. What do
    the other designers here think?\r\n\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type
    Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-16 19:13:23'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Does it appease those confused about the place of sarcasm and hyperbole in
    the realm of irony if we refer to this as the '<a href\"http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&lr=&q=verbal+irony&btnG=Search\"><srong>verbal</strong>
    irony</a> mark'? Then they can google it more readily before debating. My personal
    preference is that we not codify the use so sternly (or use such a long name),
    but just table the debate. Let's assume text and type relates to the verbose arts
    first.\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-16 19:23:23'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "This reminds me of the good ol' 1990s when people used to say \"NOT!\" after
    every sentence.\r\n\r\nI really love the irony mark. NOT!\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2006-10-16 19:58:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'I agree with Terry, I think the tilda slows you down when you are reading.
    But I am not sure that''s a bad effect if it''s irony your after. Also, If I like
    it or not matters about as much as if I like or dislike emoticons. That is not
    at all. If it used enough then <cite>maybe</cite> it will merit it''s own glyph.
    But like emoticons it is most likely to rise on the power of existing glyphs like
    the tilda. In which case no new glyph will be needed. '
  created: '2006-10-16 21:05:04'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Choz, I also like 2 and 4. Now that I see it, 4 might be difficult to execute
    depending on how long the descenders are in a typeface. Stylistically, this could
    be a beautiful mark in a really nice serif face.
  created: '2006-10-16 21:42:38'
- author:
    name: Geo Ben
    picture: 111945
  body: "<p> OK, M. Cunnngham, I will admit, you have me intrigued. \r\n\r\nso...
    a few hours taken away from the work I am supposed to be \r\ngetting ready for
    critique here to play with your idea. I tried to post a sample (jpg) in this place,
    but.... they do not show. Dunno how to post images in here. \r\n\r\nsee :\r\n\r\nhttp://img124.imageshack.us/img124/3110/snarkvx7.jpg\r\n\r\nThere
    is a definite 'smirking' quality to the tilde that makes it work.</p>\r\n\r\n<p>A
    first difficulty is the horizontal orientation... takes up rather a lot of space
    for punctuation. Tilt it a tad? And perhaps join the two pieces by shortening
    the line and moving the dot into the newly avaiilable space? You will not that
    i inverted the original glyph (taken from Verdana), to keep it from being confused
    with the tilde.</p>\r\n\r\nsee: http://img123.imageshack.us/my.php?image=demoxf1.jpg\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<p>As
    for the name, I would agree that you want something more succinct. May i suggest
    \"Snark\", as in \"snide/sardonic (re)mark\")? It has linguistic precedence in
    British slang <a href=\"http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=snarky\">Snarky</a>,
    which seems to parallel the most common usage.</p>\r\n\r\nit would appear that
    your idea is growing legs"
  created: '2006-10-16 21:50:17'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Aside from unofficial concensus, what ways might be a good way to settle
    amongst the designs here?\r\n\r\nEben: Whether you, or I, \"like it\" matters,
    for the mark is still at a  formative stage. In essence, I am promoting the use
    the existing tilde for <em>some purpose at all</em>, aside from programming or
    mathematics, since we are stuck with it in the basic ASCII glyphs forever, and
    immense hardware and software support. To strengthen it's use, I propose adding
    the irony mark to typefaces, essentially as a nicer adaptation, where one wants
    it to look prettier or more flowing. Meanwhile, others are independently developing
    and applying a similar  mark. That's why I brought it up here, amongst those most
    likely to care about that component and able to do something about it, before
    something dorkier is adopted.\r\n\r\nFrom a digital type vocabulary view, I <em>think</em>
    I am suggesting support for a unique character that is a ligature of two existing
    glyphs. I think that the tilde alone(no period) looks awful!) Anyone familiar
    with Unicode's design philosophy is welcome to correct my description.\r\n\r\nbiddy:
    No. 4 might make a nice fancy alternate, or one of several with the descended
    tilde in different places? That might be a bit much for now. At the moment, I
    am leaning towards something along the lines of No. 2, as it seems like (for now)
    the healthiest compromise of:\r\n\r\ntilde-ness, \r\npleasant flow in body copy\r\nstandalone*
    or end-of-line use\r\nclarity or legibility from other marks\r\nadequate visual
    connotation\r\n\r\nAre there other factors we should consider?\r\n\r\n*I can totally
    see this mark useful on it's own as a, \"Tell me that you are kidding!\", \"No
    way-you aren't serious!?\", or as an anti-exclamation vibe, in a balloon over
    a cartoon character's head.\r\n(P. 1: Jon says something sappy. P. 2: Garfield
    thinks, \".~\")\r\n\r\nBen (George?)\r\n<em>There's an \"insert image\" graphic
    text below the comment input box, that lets you pick a file from your local computer,
    then stores it on the Typo...com server and puts a bracketed link to it at the
    end of whatever you've typed in the comment box. This can then be moved to wherever
    you want it to appear. The links you put work just fine as well, though.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    proposals you put up look pretty good. It is unambigously not an ellipsis, question
    mark or other sentence terminator, and the final curl may lead into the next line
    well. Do you imagine this looking different in seriffed fonts? We should probably
    examine it in body text, so I think i will doodle a bit on that late tonight.
    Because the tilde does nothing else that a normal English speaker might come across,
    I don't suppose having the look of the two overlapping is a bad thing. Plus, the
    \ designs ideas of the existing tilde can be drawn upon.\r\n\r\n\"Snark\" has
    been suggested as a 'typographer jargon'-nickname previously by a commenter on
    Greenman's article suggesting borrowing the inverted exclamation point from Ethiopian
    script. I think this might be a great primary name, or an endearing pet name.
    I'm also partial to \"Zing\". To compare, the forward slash is also known as a
    solidus, slant, stoke, scratch or any of a handful of other names.\r\n\r\nGeo
    Ben: <em>it would appear that your idea is growing legs</em>\r\n\r\nThis is hardly
    my idea. I drew this most heavily from the proposal by the blogging couple @ liloia.com.
    I was just motivated to try and pre-empt the masses from any use of a preceeding
    mark, as that variation galls me so much that it puts me in the camp of the most
    cynical responses in this thread. Then, I thought, lets all make this look a little
    better, by involving the both-sides-of-the-brain type gurus here.\r\n\r\n\r\nChoz
    Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-16 23:48:44'
- author:
    name: Geo Ben
    picture: 111945
  body: "Chozz,\r\n\r\nyes, George (or Geo or Ben.... they are all used in various
    fora)\r\n\r\nit is a Flash button... thanks. I normally have flashed turned off
    because i find the flashing ads annoying.\r\n\r\nWell, it is your idea here. And
    i actualy do not think that the variations i played with help you in the end,
    as one of your proposals was that the design allow for it's use in instances where
    the reader (as in an online media like this) lacks the specific character. The
    two char solution would be the only resort in those cases. \r\n\r\nPity... i thought
    Snark was a pretty clever solution, its implicit irony when ya think of Caroll
    and his works.\r\n\r\noh well.\r\n\r\n\r\ngeo."
  created: '2006-10-17 00:49:37'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I appreciate brevity more than the readers of this thread might imagine.
    You are right: Carroll's writing is too fitting to not pay an homage to with the
    double entendre. With whatever officialness I am granted, let's now refer to it
    as a 'snark'. When people ask us what on earth we are talking about, we can look
    at them as if they are hopelessly out of touch and reply, \"Duh! An irony mark.\"\r\n\r\n\r\nChoz
    Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
  created: '2006-10-17 01:57:21'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Yes! Snobbishness!\r\n\r\nAnyways, wow that I see that the dot and tilde
    can be integrated well, I like the last example. But your 1st glyph also deserve
    a honor. Have you tried to actually drawing it with a broad nibbed pen, Mr. Cunningham?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "Should I ever again molest an innocent page with a broadnib pen, it would
      be a torture to the ink, a humilation to the pen, and completely denied by me
      on any public occasion. All my lettters are drawn directly into a computer,
      or inked/painted/drawn with a variety of nontraditional media and scanned.\r\n\r\nI
      have been surfing the net for articles about irony marks, and seeding the idea
      of the snark. In the proccess, I revisted Kevn Larson's always interesting blog,
      and he seems aware and supportive of this implementation of an irony mark, since
      it will offers easy implementation. I have commented on the wikipedia pages
      for the sarcasm mark (discussion and article) and irony mark (discussion only).
      \r\n\r\nAre there artists, designers or foundries that would like to be included
      in the list of supporters of the ligature? I have a spot for you on the incomplete
      <a href=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">Snark user's guide</a>.\r\n\r\nChoz
      Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
    created: '2006-10-17 16:33:44'
  created: '2006-10-17 14:39:36'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/snarkingarial copy_5809.jpg]\r\n\r\nAny
    variations particularly reach out and grab ya?\r\n\r\nI'm most partial to 2B:\r\n75%
    width tilde with dot centered under the left arc, tilde at the x-center. Stylish
    alignment, and legible, but not too wide. Overall: practical.\r\n\r\nI notice
    the dot is a little closer to the left bearing than it should be in some of these.
    Sorry."
  created: '2006-10-17 19:56:33'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I still remain skeptical but part of the reason for that is I have not had
    time to really chew on this question & I will not have it for some time. I Do
    hope you are successful if only because I like the idea of extended expressive
    possibilities. But really despite all I have read so far I am unconvinced. A tilda
    might easily be pressed into use here. That might really be enough. But for the
    sake of looks I think the main thing to avoid is making the mark look too much
    like an exclaimation or Question mark on it's side. When I look at your icon I
    keep thinking question mark & it doesn't work for me. A tilda is even and suggests
    abiguity that needs resolution. In other words it says \"Hang on - Reconsider
    this phrase.\" Perhaps there should be three kinds of marks short ones for nasty
    snide snarkyness. Medium ones for run of the mill irony. And long ones for really
    dry wit. It's a slipperly slope.\r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/ironymarks_5692.gif]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "The final word on width lies in the hands of the font designers, but I
      can imagine the variable widths easily following your suggestion, with the witty,
      pithy and most tongue-in-cheek typefaces employing a longer variant. (Also,
      those are less likely to be used in long copy.) It is a slippery slope, indeed.
      I'll let time do it's magic, once this is off the ground.\r\n\r\nThe dot under
      the stroke is to give a 'completeness of thought' look to sentences terminated
      with a snark, as well as too make it appear 'official' alongside other sentence
      termination marks. The QM and the ExM both are modified periods, so it seems
      suitable that this is as well. The tilde's wavy symmetry is of value for exactly
      why you describe. There's a reason why I don't suggest any of the other unused
      accents on a US keyboard. \r\n\r\nYou bring interesting thoughts to this, I
      will be pondering what you say most of the day.\r\n\r\n\r\nChoz Cunningham\r\n!Exclamachine
      Type Foundry\r\nhttp://www.exclamachine.com"
    created: '2006-10-17 20:45:23'
  created: '2006-10-17 19:57:01'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I am not liking it sitting with the period in your example. I wonder if it
    should stay in it's own area to the right of the period or if it is 'real' puctuation
    if it aught to stand on it's own. No period needed.
  created: '2006-10-17 19:59:57'
- author:
    name: Geo Ben
    picture: 111945
  body: "well, I don't use emoticons (or many abbreviations either) because I just
    like words and structure and all that good stuff. \r\n\r\nBut, as I said, the
    idea intrigues me.\r\n\r\nI think B is best too, though I would still advocate
    tilting the tilde and moving it closer to the period so as to distinguish it."
  created: '2006-10-17 20:29:09'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: What do others think about the dot?
  created: '2006-10-18 05:21:57'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Choz, as you have the dot in your current avatar image, I like it!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/picture-13605_5275.jpg]\r\n(posted
    here just in case you change it later)\r\n\r\nIt's almost iconic; an all-seeing
    eye, taking a second look at the words preceeding it."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "Thank you. I didn't see the image until I saved it small. Then I noticed
      it looked like a suspiciously-raised eyebrow, and thought, \"Oh, that's too
      rich.\"\r\n\r\n(That's Book Antiqua, tilde scaled 75%, darkened and moved.)\r\n\r\n<A
      HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine
      Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
    created: '2006-10-18 08:53:23'
  created: '2006-10-18 08:27:04'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: I like it. I'm curious to see how it sets up in copy.
  created: '2006-10-18 13:50:09'
- author:
    name: Geo Ben
    picture: 111945
  body: yep. good. I think you may have it. I, too, would like to see in in copy.
  created: '2006-10-18 16:08:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "And it looks like a winking eye as well.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-18 16:32:49'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Let''s see it set. '
  created: '2006-10-18 18:27:47'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "I actually kind of like this now. It sort of reminds me of a fermata in music.\r\n\r\n
    - Lex"
  created: '2006-10-18 18:35:26'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Snark</a>[img:sites/default/files/old-images/snarcopy_5636.jpg]\r\nBook Antiqua,
    30 point, optical spacing, hyphenated and flushed. The snark is a 30 point period,
    with a bold 23.pt tilde. A 15 point space was added, to imitate proper spacing.
    One thing to keep in mind is that the snark is less necessary in the center of
    body text. The context usually will nornmally make any verbal irony clear. I think
    it will be most useful in very short strings. For illustrative purposes, however,
    I've attemped to justify the use by creating verbal irony that may be ambigous
    without it.\r\n\r\n<em>And yeah, I forgot to properly capitalize \"Man Who Shot\".
    My bad.</em>\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The "
  children:
  - author:
      name: cuttlefish
      picture: 111881
    body: "This mark does indeed influence me to read the preceding sentence twice,
      It conveys greater importance than if the sentence were ended with a mere period,
      yet it isn't shouting as an exclamation point would.\r\n\r\nThe tilde looks
      a little thin, though. It doesn't carry the same visual weight as the question
      mark, and thus still looks like more of an assemblage than a character in its
      own right."
    created: '2006-10-18 18:47:41'
  created: '2006-10-18 18:36:33'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I agree, it is too light. I'm happy with the spacing otherwise. I was attempting
    to work strictly with font outlines in this and even using faux-bolding didn't
    make it the right weight. Working with tinier sizes makes it rough. Is there anybody
    out there with a flair for tweaking traditional serifed faces?\r\n\r\nI am going
    to work on incorporation into my own display fonts next.\r\n\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-10-18 19:10:45'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Wow, looks a lot more elegant than I thought it would. I can see this becoming
    a fun, ornate type extra.
  created: '2006-10-19 00:38:43'
- author:
    name: Geo Ben
    picture: 111945
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/demo 2_4643.jpg]\r\n\r\nBookman Antigua
    - 24pt"
  created: '2006-10-19 03:00:08'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Well, after wandering around my room, staring @ the screen from various points,
    I'd have to say that the center example looks best to me, matching the weight
    of the text very well.\r\n\r\nI'm sold on this design. I will begin writing the
    descriptive guide shortly. I'm planning on modelling it after MS's type guide
    entries, unless someone has a better formula to suggest. (Of course, in type,
    we'll all do our own thing anyhow, but where's the fun if there are no rules to
    break?)\r\n\r\nIf anyone has added this to their own typeface(s) already, post
    it here or drop me an email with credits and a nice big image to incorporate into
    the guide.\r\n\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">Snark
    .~</a>"
  created: '2006-10-19 03:30:16'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Proposed copy for design recommendation (please comment!):\r\n---\r\n\r\n<strong>Snark</strong>\r\nA
    mark used to terminate a statement or passage of verbal irony.\r\n\r\n\u2022\t
    Unicode:  Private Use Area U+58066 (Hexadecimal $E2D2)\r\n\r\n<em>Design:</em>
    The snark is a ligature of the period and tilde. The dot is centered under the
    lefthand arc of a condensed swung stroke. The forms of the ligature components
    closely mimic the original glyphs of the font. If the bottom dot of the question
    mark and exclamation mark are different from the period, the snark\u2019s bottom
    dot should match them. The tilde is shortened to 70-90% of its original width.
    Care should be taken to insure that the tilde\u2019s weight remains appropriate
    to the typeface, and the question mark\u2019s weight is a good measure.\r\n\r\nUsage
    Note: Similarly to a question mark, exclamation mark or period, the snark is placed
    immediately after the last letter of a sentence, and followed by a single space.
    \r\n\r\n<em>Height alignment:</em>  The bottom dot aligns with the lowercase overshoot
    in round designs and the baseline in square designs. The top of the upper stroke
    may align with the center bar of the lowercase letters, the x-height, or anywhere
    in between. There should be space equal to the diameter of the dot between the
    dot, and the bottom of the top stroke.\r\n\r\n<em>Advance width rule: </em>The
    snark should fit between the width of the question mark and an N-space.\r\n\r\n<em>Other
    Notes:</em>  The snark is inspired by the unofficial French point d\u2019ironie,
    a reversed question mark proposed in the 19th century. This variant may be possibly
    preferred for historical typefaces, or as an alternate design.\r\n\r\nDespite
    the similarity between the French design and the Arabic  question mark (U+1567),
    a designer should not substitute one for another, as this may cause rendering
    problems in some applications.\r\n\r\nShould the snark become popular in languages
    that employ the inverted question mark and exclamation mark, designers may want
    to include an inverted version, following the conventions of the established marks.
    The dot should align with the question and exclamation mark\u2019s (now) top dots.
    Suggested unofficial mapping would be U+58067 (Hex: $E2D3)\r\n\r\n---\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-10-19 09:22:09'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<Strong>OpenType (OT) Implementation</strong>\r\nThe introduction of OpenType
    \ fonts allows for interesting advanced typographic substitutions to be made while
    the user is typing, along with many other font refinements. In this case, it can
    be used to place the snark in easy reach of common users, by \u201Cseeing\u201D
    when they type (period)+(tilde). Adoption of OT is expected to continue to grow.\r\n\r\nThe
    ligature substitution will work, whether the glyph is mapped to any Unicode space,
    or even named, as long as the character  is included in the font file. IT is called
    up in any OpenType (OT) font through the use of the <CLIG> Contextual Ligature
    feature. This class is currently supported by virtually all design-oriented OT-aware
    programs. Unlike other ligature substitutions, the <clig> class is specified to
    default to \u201Con\u201D, meaning the substitution will happen automatically,
    as the user types. (This can be turned off.)\r\n\r\nBecause the feature is watching
    an atypical character combination, the command is fairly simple to include. Using
    \ VOLT (the Visual OpenType Layout Tool), the substitution mapping is as follows:\r\n\r\n<code>Script,
    Language, Feature\r\nLatin \t&lt;latn&gt;, Default&lt;dflt&gt;, Contextual Ligatures
    \t&lt;clig&gt;</code>\r\n\r\nA substitution is then added:\r\n\r\n<code>glyph#1
    glyph#2 -\t&gt; glyph#3</code>\r\n\r\n\u201C#1\u201D is the number or name of
    the standard period or full stop.\r\n\u201C#2\u201D is the number or name of the
    ascii tilde.\r\n\u201C#3\u201D is the number or name of the snark.\r\n\r\nFinally,
    the substitution is dragged to the <clig> feature, tested and shipped. Now, the
    substitution should be automatic in Adobe\u2019s OpenType-friendly applications
    and more.\r\n\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The
    Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-10-19 18:00:36'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Based on the feedback, I will use the text more-or-less like it stands.\r\n\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-10-20 18:55:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'm afraid I'm not convinced of the merits of this mark.\r\n\r\nIn the first
    place, semantically, it's confusing, rather than helpful. The reason is that while
    the two standard \"prosodic\" marks used in English -- the question and the exclamation
    point -- indicate a stress both in voice and meaning, the snark does not. It suggests
    a sneering tone of voice, which is rarely appropriate to irony. In other words,
    irony requires understatement, eg \"They teach you to be a gentleman there\".
    Even sarcasm benefits from understatement. It is up to the reader to determine
    the degree of sneer in the character's voice, or up to the writer to better express
    ironic intent.\r\n\r\nTo further illustrate this point, why not have a \"humorous\"
    mark, to indicate that the author is making a joke? Or an \"angry\" mark to indicate
    that the author is pissed off? Or a \"sincerity\" mark, to indicate that the author
    really, really means what they're saying -- that would be the opposite of an irony
    mark, ennit, and surely just as appropriate. I mean, the project seems quite arbitrary
    if you are attempting to nuance the meaning of text.\r\n\r\nThat is why the question
    mark and the exclamation mark make sense, because they are truly prosodic. The
    interrobang, too, is prosodic. But the snark is not, except for the special case
    of sneering sarcasm. A more useful prosodic grammar mark would be \"fear\", indicating
    a pathetic whine as in \"please don't hurt me\".\r\n\r\nIn the second place, as
    a typographic design the tilde+period snark is unsuccessful. It is apologetic
    and lacks distinction, looking like a wobbly emdash and a fly-turd. That is the
    interpretation it must elicit, appearing at the end of sentences. By trying to
    re-use the ascii tilde, the design is compromised. The s-curve idea would be better
    if applied with purpose, as something with the size and angle of the slash, perhaps.
    In fact, the original thingy at the top of this thread showed more promise.\r\n\r\nBut
    really, the snark is, grammatically, confusing clutter, no matter how well designed."
  created: '2006-10-20 19:51:09'
- author:
    name: Geo Ben
    picture: 111945
  body: "M. Shinn,\r\n\r\nThere is much truth in what you say. but.... the matter
    of what constitues irony has long since been swept from the table, notwithstanding
    out insistence to the contrary. When you consider that the recognized master of
    IRONY is Seinfeld (\"not that there's anything wrong with that\"), we have to
    accept that we are stuck with sarcasm as irony (As M. Shaw suggests).\r\n\r\nTo
    be honest, I do not believe that I would ever use the snark, but i suspect that
    many people would find it useful. Real irony being a rather difficult trick to
    pull off, it would certainly help to have some sorta signpost indicating that
    one tried. \r\n\r\nBut mostly, i was intrigued by the design aspect. We may have
    little use for fadas and umlauts either, but ...\r\n\r\nAnd I am learning about
    glyph design in the process. \r\n\r\ngeo."
  created: '2006-10-20 20:17:48'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I am going to have to revise what I said before about needing 3 marks. Actually
    you need five for the 5 levels of irony.\r\n\r\n0 utter earnestness ( no irony
    ) \r\ne.g., Q: \"What do you think of the squash soup?\"\r\nA: \"I don't like
    it.\"\r\n\r\n1 crude sarcasm\r\ne.g., Q: \"What do you think of the squash soup?\"\r\nA:
    \"Mmmmm ... I loooooove squash soup!!\"\r\n\r\n2 refined wittiness\r\ne.g., Q:
    \"What do you think of the squash soup?\"\r\nA: \"Oh goodie ... squash soup!\"\r\n\r\n3
    subtle misdirection\r\ne.g., Q: \"What do you think of the squash soup?\"\r\nA:
    \"What sort of soup is this again?\"\r\n\r\n4 dead-pan mockery\r\ne.g., Q: \"What
    do you think of the squash soup?\"\r\nA: \"Sometimes squash soup can be quite
    tasty.\"\r\n\r\n5 utterly earnest acceptance of the world in all its absurdity
    ( the highest form ) \r\ne.g., Q: \"What do you think of the squash soup?\"\r\nA:
    \"I don't like it.\"\r\n\r\nThis level theory of irony was proposal by Art Walaszek
    sometime around 2000.\r\n\r\nWithout indicating which of these you mean you run
    the risk of making all snarked sentances into level one. Level one irony is next
    to worthless. Level 5 is one of the highest compliments you can offer. \r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "<em>Level one irony is next to worthless. Level 5 is one of the highest
      compliments you can offer.</em>\r\n\r\nGreat thought there. Must contemplate/
      research it.\r\n\r\nWere I even to dare to suggest that more than one is a good
      idea, I think that the period is the appropriate mark for both #1 and #5, so
      you were close with decribing the 3 between. Now, can one mark be useful to
      describe these? It is much more likely to find cultural embrace, I suspect.
      But you have a valid point. People think sarcasm only.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
      Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type
      Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
    created: '2006-10-21 08:51:15'
  created: '2006-10-21 04:23:20'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Nick, you bring a lot of valid and very interesting points up. I am quite
    fascinated by what you have seriously considered and insightfully explained. My
    reply is not brief, but I hope it is coherent and interesting to you and others.\r\n\r\nI
    don't think the the snark is perfect. Nor do I believe I nor any other 'author'
    of a glyph can have it perfect in advance. Unlike Claudius or Peter, I cannot
    simply decree its implementation either, so, while it must  be somewhat adequate
    at 'birth', it must be seeded into the wild, and any success will come paired
    with an evolutionary change in form or function, through a gradual social process.
    I anticipate alterations to meaning, use and design. It may become very good at
    some point.\r\n\r\nA question is as often tonal as it is stressed, with a rising
    pitch. Either way, I find that both the common P-shaped and the more ornate curvy-z
    style both imply a pause born of idleness, which is presumably the wait for a
    response from the listener (or reader, in their head), and is pretty much perfect.
    Like the period, I would say it does its job very respectably.\r\n\r\nThe '!',
    on the otherhand, I think is rather weak, from a voice-minded view. I tend, when
    lacking enough, see as an across-the-sentence increase in volume, hardly  prosodic.
    If  there is enough narrative flow, I may create a more appropriate sound in my
    head, but that's hardly the mark's doing, and still not prosodic. That's more
    being used to it than anything, like other reading preferences. I think that if
    normal writing included double and triple exclamations, a lot more vocal clarity
    could exist. Also, from an abstract visual design point, I imagine that a dot
    and asterisk or hash/pound (#) would be more effective at creating the 'Blammo!\"
    tone.\r\n\r\nThe slightly controversial ampersand and the downright pointless
    interrobang are closer examples of questionable ligatures. They offer no great
    quality over \u2018and\u2019 and \u201C!?\u201D They are alternates with advantages
    that match their drawbacks. At least the \u201C.~\u201D creates new meaning. Unfortunately,
    the target users will be limited to just that for a time, while the rather literate,
    and typographers who need this the least (due to historical interest, high literacy,
    care for sentence construction, value of tradition etc.) will see it as extraneous,
    until it is unavoidably required in fonts. I just hope there are enough progressive
    designers to meet the texters in the middle. And if type designers weren\u2019t
    generally conservative, why would f<em>x</em> ligs still exist in non-decorative
    faces?\r\n\r\nAs far as the snark, I think you are saying it does actually sing
    a song, just not the right song?\r\n\r\nAt this point, the snark is a mark of
    verbal irony, including but not limited simply to sarcasm. I think you are saying
    that it isn't appropriate because it visually implies only a sneer, which universally
    means sarcasm. I wouldn't say so, though wife, however, wishes I felt otherwise,
    as she takes my most resigned sarcasms as complicity. I am more likely to sneer
    when using hyperbole or absurd understatement than sarcasm, which would mean the
    prosodic qualities still will suit the inferred acoustics you describe.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    any verbal irony requires a modulation of speech for effectiveness seems the kind
    most appropriate to mark in text. To complicate the debate, others seem to adopt
    different connotations to quite different examples. Previous posters have stated
    that it reminds them of a wide range, from outright levity to in-joking, ambiguity
    to scorn. This suggests that they are getting a different image or sound. Since
    they still find ways to attach it to their models of verbal irony, it is still
    working, in a way.\r\n\r\nThe :) is a humorous mark, and there is already a smiley-face
    character in ASCII and all its derivatives for it. It is too cute and specific
    to cover many, many types of humor, coming off as smarmy. The angry mark, I think,
    is fulfilled by the use of expletives in so many pretty ways. Particularly as
    participles and interjections, they fulfill this niche well. On the sincerity
    mark, it would immediately become co-opted as a sarcasm mark, if I can presume
    the behavior of people. Aside from that, all I can say is that perhaps there should
    be some more sentence terminals. I haven't the resources to tabulate all of what
    we say and mean, and the conditions where we do it. That would codify what\u2019s
    most ambiguous. Until then, I'd say this is a bit arbitrary, but I can cope with
    that. I consistently see a problem with people using verbal irony in places where
    it cannot be clear, but they weren't intending ambiguity. So, to me, broken is
    a good place to fix things. I think this is supported by people trying to use
    quotes, percent pairs, already-loaded inverted exclamations or questions, technically
    problematic arabic glyphs, tilde pairs, parenthesized exclamations and/or questions,
    faux-markup tags, real markup tags, abbreviations, narrative sequences and even
    hand-drawn solutions to easily convey irony.\r\n\r\nThere is some controversy
    about the terms \u201CIrony\u201D and \u201CSarcasm\u201D, and what is which.
    The definitions of both may be changing. This mark cannot resolve that debate,
    and shouldn\u2019t suffer for it, but unfortunately does. \r\n\r\nDespite the
    arbitrary method you assign fear to being worthy of characterization, over, say,
    sincerity, that sounds like one hell of an idea! I\u2019ve been annoyed by the
    portrayals of fear in written work, from text-like to design-like ends. I would
    love to see what you come up with, and might just give that a go sometime. And
    no, I am serious, it is a very weak point of text.\r\n\r\nI am inclined to take
    any description of a baseline dot, considering its successful use in so many other
    punctuations, as a fly-turd as simply hyperbolic. Likewise, the other individual
    component, the swung dash, is not ugly either, though that is subjective, of course.
    We\u2019ve been moving towards N sized, not M sized, in body-oriented typefaces.
    I am more than eager to see any revisions you suggest, and very democratic in
    my consideration. I am sorry if it appears apologetic.~ My goal is to see something
    beautiful, consistent and practical replace the motley array of marks beginning
    to be adopted.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t see the snark as confusing clutter, but as
    a specialty product, like the pilcrow, section or  Circled R. To be used only
    when it it appropriate, which is not all irony in all places.\r\n\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-21 05:10:20'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://www.nms.ac.uk/ournewlook_1.aspx\r\n\r\nNew logo forming a saltire
    from exclamation and question marks.\r\n\r\nThe snark <em>was</em> a boojum, you
    see\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-21 09:01:00'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: boojum?
  created: '2006-10-21 18:06:12'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Last line of the poem, check out the illustrations if you have a chance.\r\nhttp://etext.library.adelaide.edu.au/c/carroll/lewis/snark/fit8.html\r\n\r\nA
    Boojum is the dangerous kind of Snark.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-21 19:11:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Choz, thanks for the reply.\r\nReading it, and Eben's five levels, you mention
    multiplying the exclamation point for increasing volume of exclamation, so perhaps
    the tilde can be multiplied for varying degrees of irony?!\r\n\r\nThe fly turd
    comment was quite sincere, for which a sincerity mark would have helped, to denote
    the absence of sarcasm?!:-)\r\nWhat I mean is that it is too easy to mistake the
    tilde for a dash, given the frequency of dashes at the end of sentences, and if
    that is the case, then the period would be assumed to be an artefact in the paper,
    the printing, or the said fly dropping. Or possibly a booger courtesy of a previous
    reader.\r\n\r\nGood point about the happyface emoticon -- it has emerged as a
    genuine mark, and I will in future font designs consider kerning these characters.~
    \ There, you see, the snark doesn't need a separate code point, because it is
    quite happy as a composite, like the happyface emoticon.\r\n\r\nOn a tangent,
    in setting the scotch roman mid-19th century, compositors used a triple space
    between sentences. I've recently been reading a new book set in Bembo with kerning
    between the space and cap A, V, T, W, and Y, and it's very annoying. Really, I
    don't see that there's anything fundamentally wrong with a double space between
    sentences. Typographers today have a notion of spaces that is generally quite
    rigid and simplistic, compared to how those in the past used a variety of spaces.
    So a double space after the snark (which is how I set it above) is an option.
    There is also the custom in many languages (eg French) to insert spacing before
    the end mark -- actually an English language practice that has died out. It has
    especial merit where the mark is x-height (ie the colons) and follwing an x-height
    character. The composite snark may have that kind of a problem, and shouldn't
    be too close to the word -- another reason to prefer the \"arbitrary\" snark.
    \r\n\r\nWhat was the tipping point that established the happyface emoticon? Hindsight
    may be able to say, but it's always complex and you can't guarantee results, so
    all one person can do is push. In the 16th century Trissino advocated the addition
    of j, u and long o (omega) to the roman alphabet, and much later in the next century
    two out of three of his reforms had become established. So keep at it (because
    you never know where things will lead) and I hope the criticism is useful.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-21 19:26:40'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>The composite snark may have that kind of a problem, and shouldn\u2019t
    be too close to the word.</cite>\r\n\r\nExcellent point.\r\n\r\nI like the idea
    of the multiplicative snark. \r\n\r\nThis is an Example. ~~~~~\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-21 20:54:20'
- author:
    name: Geo Ben
    picture: 111945
  body: "M. Cunningham makes a very good point in the snarks appropriateness in relieving
    us of the variety of marks used to select text from context  (presumably)to indicate
    irony. it occurs to me, however, that such usages are usually inline rather than
    terminal. How would the snark be used in such instances?\r\n\r\neg: the store
    advertised a 'free gift' with purchase. (any usage that can be described as both
    tautological and oxymoronic MUST be ironic, intent notwithstanding).\r\n\r\ngeo."
  created: '2006-10-22 00:26:23'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "The example you give can be read alot of ways. If you want it read a specific
    way you could do this instead:\r\n\r\n<cite>The store advertised a 'free gift~'
    with purchase</cite>\r\n\r\nor this:\r\n<cite>The store advertised a 'free gift'
    with purchase.~ </cite>\r\n\r\nor this:\r\n<cite>The store advertised a 'free
    gift' with purchase.~~~~~ </cite>\r\n\r\nYou might not want to of course. But
    you could."
  created: '2006-10-22 00:46:52'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/snarks-of-many-stripesdistressed_5667.jpg]\r\n<em>Found
    this in an old remnant of a specimen book, conveniently missing the cover and
    title pages. It looks like we are a season late and a shilling short.</em>\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\nI
    think the multi-exclamation and multi-snark are neat ideas, but I don't think
    semi-formal use is about to change on the exclamation, and it would seem to inconsistent
    to encourage it on the other. This would suggest that there is still a place for
    either in casual use. Poetry and comics are some of the limited applications where
    a need for typographic quality would overlap the highly vocalized stylings that
    might use it.\r\n\r\nI hypothesise that the fly-turd effect is simply from a shortage
    of well kerned examples of the snark, added to its unfamiliary. I imagine it living
    side-by-side with the \"franken-\"snark: \".~\" for quite some time. By the time
    support is common enough, it will be familiar. As for the kerning; hey, it's at
    version .3 beta right now!\r\n\r\nI really would suggest that people play with
    the bearings and arrangement when adding the mark. Particularly in its infancy,
    it needs to be a beautiful and readable improvement ofver \".~\", or who would
    care?\r\n\r\nRe-reading my last post, I was a bit harsh in lamenting the use of
    quotes. They are very good for ironic intra-sentence use. They are also well established,
    even referred to back in vocal irony. Unfortunately, they are used at the full
    sentence level in some places online. Ugh. The rest of the mix is also used at
    the full sentence level, a lot of them at the beginning (as part of a pair) as
    well as at the end.\r\n\r\n<strong>Perhaps</strong> there need not be a separate
    code spot altogether for the snark. I think it looks \"just okay\" in a few fonts,
    where the tilde sits around the x-height. In ones where it sits at the M-height,
    or higher, it looks bad (for making a snark). Others may disagree, but the look
    of \".~\" in several common screen fonts bugs me. Typophile's default font does
    a better job than most.\r\n\r\nThe illustration above shows that there is a lot
    of range in what the snark could become in different fonts, and those were just
    ideas from one noggin. I plan to have a contest soon to promote the idea, tageting
    traditional illustrative artists. And this may spawn even more variations within
    the basic idea, inspiring us.\r\n\r\nI wonder how Trissino would have promoted
    his ideas today. Aside from open design discussion here, and practicing it in
    my own fonts, naturally, I am considering an emailing campaign (real mail, not
    spam, to relevant outlets), contests, clothing and any ideas anyone offers that
    sound not-too-impossible. Suggestions?\r\n\r\nHere is something just to muse:\r\n<ul>e.g.,
    Q: \u201CWhat do you think of the squash soup???\u201D</ul>\r\n<ul>A: \u201CSquash
    soup!!! I don\u2019t like it.~.~.~\u201D</ul>\r\n\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-10-22 07:55:35'
- author:
    name: lysdexia
  body: "it's -> its\r\nit's -> its\r\nIt's -> Its\r\ninterrogobang -> interrobang\r\ninterrogobang
    -> interrobang\r\nit's -> its\r\ncharacature -> caricature\r\nit's -> its\r\nit's
    -> its\r\ntounge -> tongue\r\nit's -> its\r\nuvula: vulgar, vacuum, ultraviole[n]t\r\n\r\nilliterate
    shi<em></em>thead\r\n\r\nit's -> its\r\nit's -> its\r\n\r\ncriteria..is -> criteria..are\r\n\r\nit's
    -> its\r\nit's -> Its\r\nit's -> its\r\n\r\nYe're all a bunch of illiterate retards.
    \ That dumb Franc didn't understand that extant punctuation can mock up any needful
    expression much better than his seizures.  Fear, for one, has ? or ?\xBF? pitch,
    \xA1 strength, and sl-o-w-th.  I'll leave a note on Wikipedia.  BTW, that (?)
    and (!) for irony in captioning rocks, but one does need one character.  If you
    want irony, use a hollow stop to show that the statement is also hollow in meaning.
    \ The reader will look for a footnote that isn't there:\r\n\r\nThat was great*\r\nThat
    was great\xB0\r\nThat was great,\_\_Yes.\r\n\r\nAnyway, a tilde (~) is wavy.  It's
    better suitted to a singsongy blurt, not to awkwardness.  Listen to your own thohts
    or shut up.\r\n\r\n-Aut"
  created: '2006-10-24 16:02:26'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "No,I don't think <A HREF=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:Log&type=block&page=User:Lysdexia\">you</a>
    will be leaving <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_talk:Lysdexia#Wikipedian_admins_are_uncouth.2C_illiterate.2C_corrupt.2C_backstabbing.2C_obscurantist.2C_ineducate.2C_delusional.2C_clueles.2C_libelling.2C_abusive.2C_overstepping.2C_hupocritic_twenty-somethings.2C_or_descended_from_such:\">any
    note</A> on <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_talk:Lysdexia#Vandalism\">Wikipedia</a>.\r\n\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://mathforum.org/kb/thread.jspa?threadID=1309260&messageID=4287901#4287901\">Welcome</A>
    \ <A HREF=\"http://forumz.tomshardware.com/games/articles-published-single-year-wow-ftopict52938.html\">to</A>
    <A href=\"http://www.gatago.com/alt/astronomy/2898043.html#1137420122.718695.59210@f14g2000cwb.googlegroups.com\">Typophile</a>.~\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-25 08:23:11'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "just came across this, wasn't sure if someone mentioned it already:\r\nhttp://www.underware.nl/site2/index.php3?id1=underware&id2=custom-type&id3=irony-mark&id4=&id5=&idpic=01"
  created: '2007-05-29 02:28:12'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Very interesting. I am sorry to say that I do not find the design as effective
    as our own, but it is interesting to learn of the commission and promotion.\r\n\r\nThe
    full page ad makes me think it is time to fire my PR man."
  created: '2007-05-29 06:43:22'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: .~
  created: '2007-05-29 07:02:52'
- author:
    name: acrobat
  body: "lysdexia's in love with words, and apparently pays for it!\r\n\r\nThis thing
    with underware indicates, at least to me, that introducing new marks for irony
    or whatever is a good gimmick that gets some publicity. I guess until the people
    of letters (not letterforms) really see the need for a new mark we'll just end
    up with a few useless designs.\r\n\r\nEmoticons were, I think, a bottom up phenomenon
    that gave us some very exciting and often very funny combinations of quotation
    marks to represent an array of feelings, situations, states of mind in informal
    communication. Where are they now? They were reinvented as a series of readymade,
    and disturbingly unpleasant, cartoons.\r\n\r\nYou've probably gathered by now
    I'm not very keen on the idea of pushing for its use, or including it in fonts.
    I'm all for the fun of designing and discussing it as if it were something serious!"
  created: '2007-05-30 00:02:32'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: 'This is the equivalent of making a bad joke and then explaining it, I''m
    afraid. If one needs to explain irony/sarcasm, then it wasn''t very effective
    irony/sarcasm to begin with. That''s the beauty of a well-placed bit of implied
    meaning. You need to to "get it." '
  created: '2007-05-30 11:31:38'
- author:
    name: joeking_tp
  body: "If I say that something is ambiguous am I being ambiguous?\r\n\r\nIf I mark
    something as 'ironic' does that indeed make it ironic?\r\n\r\nIf my intention
    was irony then the reader may or may not get the intention of irony. If you remove
    the intentionality operator (the irony mark) doesn't that leave it for the reader
    to decide?\r\n\r\nWhy do you want the irony to be s.p.e.l.l.e.d o.u.t?\r\nDoesn't
    it imply you know what 'irony' is? \"oh, right, he means the exact opposite of
    what he said\"\r\nOr am I being ironic?"
  created: '2007-06-03 00:52:46'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "If you describe somethings as 'something' I don't think you need to then
    mark it as ambigous.\r\n\r\nYes, either because it was, or because you used the
    mark incorrectly.\r\n\r\nNow to be completely candid and not ironic in the least.
    My original, personal motivation to popularize the snark is to, first, preempt
    the popularization of other alternatives that also (less tastefully) mark the
    beginning of a sentence or section, and two, see that it looks pleasant, yet practical.
    As to the details of proper usage, that is all speculated upon previously in this
    thread. In the end, it is whatever people think it is the most. The lives of the
    semicolon, the exclamation and even the full stop are not static. The snark is
    crawling. I hope to be around when it takes its first staggering, bouncy steps."
  created: '2007-06-03 07:11:37'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: Oh my gosh, yes, I saw the mark on Underware's e-newsletter the other day
    and immediately reminded of this topic! Frankly, I was surprised that the features
    of both Underware's and Choz's marks are quite similar, notably the "snark" shape.
  created: '2007-06-03 08:09:00'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: I think a "vertical" solution is most effective. I think whichever sets up
    best in copy is probably the best solution.
  created: '2007-06-07 18:31:25'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "Lurking in the standard PC encoding is a character that nobody ever uses
    for anything: the \"logical not\". I think it could be put to use as an indicator
    for flat sarcasm that need be unambiguously sarcastic. \"That sounds logical.\xAC\"
    literally means \"That sounds logical... not.\""
  created: '2007-06-08 20:37:46'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "> This is the equivalent of making a bad joke and then explaining it, I\u2019m
    afraid. If one needs to explain irony/sarcasm, then it wasn\u2019t very effective
    irony/sarcasm to begin with.\r\n\r\nI completely agree. I also find question marks
    repulsive. Why should I attach a question mark to a properly written question.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-10 18:20:39'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Why should I attach a question mark to a properly written question.</em>\r\n\r\nBecause
    punctuation also indicates \"inflection.\" Your sentence above reads monotone
    without a question mark."
  created: '2007-06-13 18:22:19'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Kevin, come now. Written language isn''t the same as spoken. It is bad grammar
    to leave question marks out of written questions. By that logic I can just abandon
    punctuation, capitalization and maybe even word spaces. '
  created: '2007-06-13 19:01:16'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: Biddy, you fell for it.
  created: '2007-06-13 19:11:41'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: I'm sorry, did the irony not come through. I wonder if there's some way I
    could have conveyed it better.
  created: '2007-06-13 20:16:15'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Oh I get it. Kevin, that''s too subtle. The tone you are conveying is actually
    a little more snarky even than simple irony. But it also would not work in sentences
    that did not end in questions. I''m sure you realize. '
  created: '2007-06-13 21:15:44'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>I\u2019m sorry, did the irony not come through. I wonder if there\u2019s
    some way I could have conveyed it better.</em>\r\n\r\nLOL. Point taken. :)"
  created: '2007-06-13 23:47:11'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I'm going to look up how Underware encoded their version, and see how compatible
    things can be. Perhaps that, the snark and the French design could share a spot.\r\n\r\nThe
    official resource for all things snarky, aside from Joan River's home page, is
    coming <em>very</em> soon."
  created: '2007-06-14 00:29:20'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "The Underware solution places the irony mark in the ASCII Circumflex's position.
    I don't think that is a good long-term solution, though it certainly makes spreading
    it easy enough.\r\n\r\nPreviously, I had been recommending placing the snark in
    the Unicode private use area (at E2D2), where it was not too likely too cause
    problems, and accessing it through OpenType -clig-. This has two drawbacks: possible
    conflict with other common \"add-on\" uses of the PUA, and problems encoding the
    contextual ligation to work when you want it and not other times.\r\n\r\nOn the
    first issue, the snark is very similar to the Medieval Unicode Font Initiative's
    \"Punctus Interrogativus Horizontal Tilde\" which they encode @ F1E8. I am tempted
    to change the recommendation, but our earlier experiments suggest that a \"basic\"
    snark's top bar sets best at about 3/4ths the width of the ASCII tilde. Nevertheless,
    compatibility with MUFI standards may be good.\r\n\r\n-clig-, it turns out, is
    not the greatest place to offer the .~-to-snark conversion. Even though it is
    a terminal mark, it is not always followed by space. Sometimes it is followed
    by a carriage return, and I am sure there are other exceptions. Any thoughts from
    the othere 'philers on that? A stylistic set perhaps, or in -dlig-? The goal is
    to offer a painless transition from a dot-tilde to a snark biglyph."
  created: '2007-06-14 04:55:40'
date: '2006-10-14 20:25:23'
node_type: forum
title: Irony Mark???

---
