---
author:
  name: satya
  picture: 111785
body: "The topic is >> \r\nWhat is the difference between \"[[ampersand|&]]\" and
  \"and\"_?\r\n\r\nIt may be a silly question but i really don't know where to use
  what. \r\nWhat is the main difference but_? I am working on a book publication and
  the title for that book is, \"Design & System\". Now how do i write it_? Which way
  would be better and why_?\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSatya_\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: '& is a ligature for the French word et. Over time it became so popular that
    it spread into other languages; becoming a more general Latin language symbol.
    The difference is context - sometimes it just looks better to use & than it does
    to spell out the word and. It is a somewhat conservative symbol; contemporary
    designers have begun replacing it with + here in the US, particularly when used
    with Sans Serif type. '
  created: '2006-10-15 21:09:06'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "The \"ampersand\" or \"esperluette\" is itself an abbreviation of the Latin
    \u201Cet\u201D, \u201Cand\u201D.\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/type/topics/theampersand.html
    &\r\nhttp://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/contents.html"
  created: '2006-10-15 21:47:40'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Satya, are you asking when the usage of one or the other is more appropriate?\r\n\r\nThe
    ampersand is more often used in business names or book titles, those that are
    comprised of a short list of product or proprietor names, such as \"Dungeons &
    Dragons\", \"Dewey, Cheatham, & Howe, Accounting\", or \"An Jan Grain & Feed\".\r\n\r\nThe
    ampersand is frowned upon in body text unless citing such a proper name that normally
    uses one. Your use of the ampersand for your book title is totally sane and appropriate,
    but entirely optional."
  created: '2006-10-15 22:14:08'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "Ampersand by Lubalin:\r\nhttp://38one.com/logos/mother.jpg"
  created: '2006-10-15 22:16:33'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Strange stress at the bottom.
  created: '2006-10-15 22:25:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "After having viewed that highly-honored (but apparently never implemented)
    logo time and again, I've finally realized what's wrong with it: he should've
    just made the ampersand into the \"O\".\r\n\r\nBTW, there's a lot of great stuff
    in the Typophile archives concerning ampersands,  what people think of Gill's
    use of them, which ones are our favorites, suggestions of when to possibly use
    them instead of \"and\", etc... But we know how access to the archives goes.  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-15 23:43:31'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "Re: After having viewed that highly-honored (but apparently never implemented)
    logo time and again, I\u2019ve finally realized what\u2019s wrong with it: he
    should\u2019ve just made the ampersand into the \u201CO\u201D.\r\n\r\nHmm... I'd
    like to see that. For comparison sake. Or would we be treading on sacred ground?"
  created: '2006-10-15 23:53:24'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I didn't realize the the ampersand went back so far! Nifty!
  created: '2006-10-16 00:06:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just because you mentioned sacred...  :->\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/newmother_6354.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    fixed the spacing too.\r\nAm I famous yet?\r\nDang.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-16 00:23:35'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "Ha, fantastic.\r\n\r\nIt definitely reads cleaner, solving the problematic
    contrast between the stress of the ampersand and the encompassing O."
  created: '2006-10-16 00:32:56'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Less wishy-washy black, but the stress of the ampersand differs from the stress
    of Goudy Old Style. Hrant, you used to like the ampersand of Monotype Script Bold.
  created: '2006-10-16 00:53:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "True, that momma certainly has too much chunk in the trunk.\r\n\r\n> you
    used to like the ampersand of Monotype Script Bold.\r\n\r\nAs Butt-Head would
    say: \"Hey, you're paying attention!\"\r\nGood memory. And I still do.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-16 01:05:55'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "I don't have good memory, Hrant, I just have a link & what is your good memory
    about ?\r\n(please notice the '&' not to go off-topic)"
  created: '2006-10-16 01:40:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, at least I can still accuse you of paying attention.\r\n\r\n> what
    is your good memory about ?\r\n\r\nNo, I meant I still like the ampersand in Monotype
    Script Bold.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-16 03:52:39'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "Very nice Hrant, but the uterus (O) is gone in your attempt\u2026\r\ntherefore
    i think Lubalin's is better, sorry. Probably not on the aesthetic side of things,
    but in terms of meaning."
  created: '2006-10-16 08:57:12'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: in german language, you cant use the & whenever you want. its only allowed
    between names, for example "goldmann & sachs", and mostly in names of corporations.
  created: '2006-10-16 11:04:43'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Yes, we also call it "e commerciale" in Italian but I sometimes don't understand
    when editors say for example something like "well, it doesn't look modern", that
    sounds to me like calling lower cases "small letters", but of course context and
    coherence are always important.
  created: '2006-10-16 12:44:33'
- author:
    name: BradB
    picture: 111285
  body: "Alessandro has a good point. Italian simply uses \"\xE8\", so I can see how
    it might be somewhat excessive and outdated to use \"&\" instead. Although Dolce
    & Gabanna uses an ampersand... Maybe it goes back to that \"commerical\" thing."
  created: '2006-10-16 14:12:01'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "Wow!! am learning. \r\n:)"
  created: '2006-10-16 14:24:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the uterus (O) is gone\r\n\r\nWow, I never knew that the mother-to-be\r\nherself
    goes into one during her pregnancy...\r\n\r\nEven if she did Lubalin's version
    would still be too clunky.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-16 15:05:18'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "The uterus is still there...it's just that the water broke.\r\n\r\nI like
    hrants update. So much better than the typical 'let's add a gradient, 3-d effect
    and reflection' trend that goes into logo updates these days... ;o)"
  created: '2006-10-16 15:14:01'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> contemporary designers have begun replacing it with + here in the US, particularly
    when used with Sans Serif type.\r\n\r\nWhich I hate. + does not mean and, it means
    plus. If Smith + Jones is used, I read it as Smith plus Jones, which is generally
    not what is wanted."
  created: '2006-10-16 15:50:52'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: "Just a further historical note: & is a ligature (not an abbreviation) for
    e+t, long in use both for 'and' and as part of any other word, e.g. 'proph&a'.
    It first became usual in late Roman cursive (ca 3rd cent. AD), but it really became
    something special in 8th- to 12th-cent. Caroline minuscule, when the many other
    old ligatures in existence were discarded except for that one. It then disappeared
    from 13th-cent. gothic scripts, only to be restored in 15th-cent. humanistic writing.
    \r\nYours &c.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/perluet_6356.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nPS
    I hadn't read the Adobe history of the ampersand page yet. Don't believe too much
    of what you read there."
  created: '2006-10-16 17:05:42'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ampersand" target="_blank">wikipedia
    about the ampersand</a>. the image on the left shows greatly how & consisted of
    e and t in the beginning (and still, in some typefaces).
  children:
  - author:
      name: MHSmith
      picture: 111858
    body: "PPS The same for Wikipedia (pardon, Thierry). I'm not sure I would consider
      the image on the left an ampersand at all, more like just e and t close together,
      or let's say it's a late adaptation, but with a completely different structure
      from the old Roman ligature. \r\n\r\nAs for the 'italic ampersand' (on the right),
      it's something else altogether, and much more recent: an Italian Renaissance
      creation, inspired I think by Byzantine calligraphy. (That's why the e and t
      are easier to recognise in it.)\r\n\r\nNot to mention the modern 'handwritten
      ampersand' illustrated which is obviously just a sloppy +.\r\n\r\nPPPS Senza
      offesa Alessandro. Actually, although it was born as a ligature, it has now
      become an abbreviation. & buon app&ito 2 U."
    created: '2006-10-16 17:53:09'
  created: '2006-10-16 17:32:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "On the other hand, since Latin doesn't have nearly enough symbols to begin
    with, it's much better if/when the ampersand doesn't look like E/e+t. Same with
    the @: the less the inside looks like an \"a\" the better.\r\n\r\nBTW, that wiki
    says the ampersand sometimes appears (more like used to appear) as the last letter
    of the alphabet, and that reminds me to mention that in Armenian the \"yev\" (a
    ligation of yetch and hyoun - the latter often called \"bzdig vuh\" = \"little
    v\") which means \"and\" is quite often placed before the last two letters of
    our alphabet. There are two reasons for this: the last two letters (oh and feh)
    were added later (to better accomodate foreign names); and it makes the number
    of letters divisible by three, which makes reciting the alphabet sound better.
    The bad news is that this -along with the timeless facilitative advantages of
    ligatures, and the fact that the yev is indeed elementally letters- causes many
    people to use the yev as actual letters in words. Imagine \"h&y\" in English for
    comparison...  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-16 17:48:54'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Yes, of course it's a ligature, I was talking mechanically, meaning functional/practical,
    a type of abbreviation which is a typographical construct, not an acronym.\r\nBrad,
    we use \u201C\xE8\u201D as a verb (\"he/she/it is\"), \"and\" is \"e\", no accent\u2014\u2014\"pane
    e vino\", but \"pane & vino\" sounds more tasty is those buddy stand alone. It's
    time for dinner here, in Turkish, \"et\" is meat, \"ev\" is \"home\", \"ev&\"
    is \"yes\", what a m\xE8ss, buon appetito."
  created: '2006-10-16 17:48:57'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I'm with Don on the \"+\" for \"and\" -- it's just so self-indulgent.  Not
    surprisingly, one sees it at many architectural firms here.\r\n\r\n(Once worked
    with an architect on a museum exhibit who decided he was a graphic designer, and
    created the most useless piece of print I've ever seen in my life, and which was
    universally panned by the high-end graphics/ID firm who were donating their service
    for the project. The architect told me that he was much more \"qualified\" to
    do this than anyone else  because \"I'm an architect, and I can design anything.\")\r\n\r\nYeah,
    right.  \r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-10-16 18:04:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just be happy he didn't try to design a text font.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-16 18:08:40'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "He tried, actually: it was such a horrible piece of you-know-what that even
    his (only) defender on the organizing committee (surprise, another architect!)
    had to admit that we had to tear it down before the opening.  \r\n\r\nGood thing
    we already had something professionally designed ready to replace it.\r\n\r\nL.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-16 18:14:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Linda, if you could get me an image of the font I'd love to use it as an
    example of what happens when the wrong person who thinks he's the right person
    makes a font. It would be exactly the sort of thing to show on the first day of
    a typeface design course.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-16 18:20:28'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "ROFL!  I can imagine it would be.  Unfortunately (or fortunately!), it was
    ripped out of the frame and tossed straight into the trash nearly seven years
    ago.  He's still around, promoting himself as the next Frank Gehry, but we don't
    exactly talk, y'know?  ;-)\r\n\r\nPicture, however, if you will, the illigitimate
    child of Arial Bold and Comic Sans, set at 144 pt, with the letterspacing -100,
    and 72 pt leading, and you'd get real close.\r\n\r\nL."
  created: '2006-10-16 18:31:49'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Rotis '&' rocks :D\r\nMerci, Marc."
  created: '2006-10-16 18:50:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What I'd get is real close to ralphing my breakfast.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-16 18:51:51'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Oh, yeah, and all caps too.  \r\n\r\nI believe I used, among other descriptors,
    the words \"disgusting,\" \"inappropriate,\" \"embarrassing,\" \"repulsive,\"
    and \"useless\" at the time.\r\n\r\nAlong with more than a few words I won't reproduce
    here.  ;-)\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-10-16 19:07:08'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "> Wow, I never knew that the mother-to-be\r\nherself goes into one during
    her pregnancy\u2026\r\n\r\nI'm with franzheidl, I've always read the ampersand
    there as a baby, or rather a fetus, not as the mother. \r\n\r\n(I also think the
    revision reads more as METHER than MOTHER...)"
  created: '2006-10-16 19:57:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> all caps too\r\n\r\nOf course.\r\nThey line up so nicely, like who ever
    needs lc?!\r\n\r\n> I\u2019ve always read the ampersand there as a baby, or rather
    a fetus\r\n\r\nSo wait, the \"O\" is the mother? Can't be...\r\nOh, I get it -
    it's the <cite>placenta</cite>. The thing the\r\nTV never shows being pushed out
    afterwards.\r\n\r\n> METHER\r\n\r\nHow do you think she got pregnant?!  ;-)\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nSeriously:
    overt symbolism should never be allowed to make design ugly.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-16 20:31:38'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "And would you believe I got an invitation today to attend an alumni event?
    \ It was addressed to \"Staff, Faculty, Alumni + Friends\"?  The current dean
    is an architect....\r\n\r\naaaaarrrrrggggggghhhhhhhhhh............"
  created: '2006-10-17 00:01:53'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "To add to the +: \r\n\r\nNicole d' Oresme (1323-1382) may have used a figure
    which looks like a plus symbol as an abbreviation for the Latin et (meaning \"and\")
    in Algorismus proportionum, believed to have been written between 1356 and 1361.
    The symbol appears in a manuscript of this work believed to have been written
    in the fourteenth century, but perhaps by a copyist and not Oresme himself. The
    symbol appears, for example, in the sentence: \"Primi numeri sesquiterti sunt
    .4. et .3., et primi numeri sev termini sesquialtere sunt .3. et .2.\" [Dic Sonneveld].\r\n\r\nThe
    plus symbol as an abbreviation for the Latin et, though appearing with the downward
    stroke not quite vertical, was found in a manuscript dated 1417 (Florian Cajori).\r\n\r\nThe
    + and - symbols first appeared in print in Mercantile Arithmetic or Behende und
    h\xFCpsche Rechenung auff allen Kauffmanschafft, by Johannes Widmann (born c.
    1460), published in Leipzig in 1489. However, they referred not to addition or
    subtraction or to positive or negative numbers, but to surpluses and deficits
    in business problems (Cajori vol. 1, page 128).\r\n\r\nSource:\r\nhttp://members.aol.com/jeff570/mathsym.html\r\n\r\n\r\nOf
    course, the 'and' and the symbol + is used as a mathematical operation in these
    examples."
  created: '2006-10-17 00:43:51'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: personally, i like the "+" as and. it's how i draw my ampersands when i write.
  created: '2006-10-17 00:53:04'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: The ampersand is punctuation and should be used as such. It's not a word.
  created: '2006-10-17 01:31:06'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i don't think of the ampersand as punctuation. i think of it as a ligature
    appropriate in titling situations and inappropriate in text except for trying
    to create a period effect, much as other "discretionary" ligatures such as s_t
    and c_t.
  created: '2006-10-17 01:57:32'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "<em>The ampersand is frowned upon in body text unless citing such a proper
    name that normally uses one. Your use of the ampersand for your book title is
    totally sane and appropriate, but entirely optional.</em>\r\n\r\nI agree. Satya,
    I was taught that the ampersand is ok to use if you're fighting for space in a
    title or headine that contains the word 'and'. The logic is that it's a contraction*
    so it takes up less (horizontal) space than three characters. In a body text situation,
    the convention is to spell words out in full, which is why Gill's using it throughout
    the text of the 'Essay on Typography' was so er, iconoclastic.\r\n\r\n*maybe this
    is the other reason for the iconic status of Lubalin's Mother&Child masthead."
  created: '2006-10-17 03:59:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> contraction ... Mother&Child\r\n\r\nNow that's funny.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-17 04:57:40'
- author:
    name: creativeles
    picture: 111954
  body: "Interesting that this pops up right now. I just finished a Google search
    for \"how to use the ampersand\" and was directed to this link: http://www.typophile.com/node/12426.
    Previous discussion of this wonderful subject. Right or wrong, (although I believe
    it is subjective at this point in time) I \"like\" the ampersand and will sneek
    it in here and there if I think I can get away with it. My 2\xA2."
  created: '2006-10-17 05:13:37'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Hrant: It is \"junk in the trunk,\" not \"chunk in the trunk.\"\r\n\r\nOther:
    I don't think of the ampersand as punctuation, but I do think there are more appropriate,
    and sometimes stylistic, times to use it. "
  created: '2006-10-17 05:33:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> http://www.typophile.com/node/12426\r\n\r\nBingo. Thank you.\r\n\r\nTiff,
    it seems \"junk ...\" is much more common, but I have\r\nactually heard \"chunk
    ...\" used (on some dumb TV show).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-17 05:39:33'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: =^) But chunk isn't as flattering as junk. ;^D
  created: '2006-10-17 05:42:24'
- author:
    name: j_p_giese
    picture: 110076
  body: "Never before have I heard someone call the ampersand punctuation (which may
    well be because I'm not really anglophone and because the meaning of <em>punctuation</em>
    is different from the German <em>Interpunktion</em>), but Google tells me that
    this interpretation isn't as abnormal as I would've thought.\r\n\r\nI'd agree,
    though, that the ampersand isn't a word and shouldn't be used as such.\r\n\r\nThe
    ampersand is undoubtedly a ligature. A ligature without a surrounding word. Hence,
    I'd call it a standalone ligature.\r\n\r\nIn terms of where to use it properly,
    I'd spontaneously compare it (loosely) to a titling \"The\" with Th ligature:
    in many typefaces too uncommon looking a ligature, IMHO, to be appropriate for
    running text, but nice to have for titles and logos (or wherever type bears a
    strong graphic aspect).\r\n\r\nIn terms of intrinsic meaning, the ampersand is
    no substitute for an ordinary \"and\". I'd never use it like <em>\"I was terribly
    jetlagged & slept for thirty hours\"</em> (much like I'd never use the + sign
    in text context). Instead, the ampersand is a way to express that things or persons
    are strongly linked and form a unity; it's used mainly in formal, soign\xE9 or
    festive context. (Personally, I wouldn't be overly hesitating to use a beautiful
    ampersand in \"Merry Christmas & a Happy New Year\" if the words were set in a
    designed arrangement and not running text.)\r\n\r\nWhen the ampersand is used
    in corporate names (<em>\"... introduced us to Mr. Frederick Fine from Fine &
    Dandy...\"</em>), it becomes, in my eyes, part of a (typo)graphic unit that shouldn't
    be disintegrated (into <em>\"Frederick Fine from Fine and Dandy\"</em>) without
    necessity.\r\n\r\nPlease note that this is my German point of view. In other languages,
    the use of the ampersand might be different (although I can't recall to have seen
    the ampersand used in contemporary English or French as an arbitrary substitute
    for the word \"and\").\r\n\r\njpg"
  created: '2006-10-17 06:06:56'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "Re: Please note that this is my German point of view. In other languages,
    the use of the ampersand might be different (although I can\u2019t recall to have
    seen the ampersand used in contemporary English or French as an arbitrary substitute
    for the word \u201Cand\u201D).\r\n\r\n>>>Pick up Eric Gill's An Essay on Typography.
    The ampersand is all over the place in place of and. Here's an example from page
    21 of the most commonly available facsimile (sorry Godine publishers, I love your
    books, but this edition has a terrible cover.)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Gill_6653.jpg]\r\n\r\nGill:
    \"The absurd rule that the ampersand (&) should only be used in 'business titles'
    must be rescinded, & there are many other contractions which a sane typographer
    should encourage.\"\r\n\r\nI should also say that Gill didn't like to wear underwear
    and that the last chapter on his advocacy of phonography is a bit looney...\r\n\r\nGeoffrey
    Dowding's Finer Points in the Spacing & Arrangement of Type also makes a very
    passionate argument for the use of the ampersand in the actual text body.  \r\n\r\nDowding
    gives as an example Manutius's Hypernerotmachia Poliphili:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Poliphili_4237.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nMy
    apologies for the quality of the scans... parts of the images got smudged..."
  created: '2006-10-17 06:15:27'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: 'J.P. Giese''s description of the use of ampersand is very similar to how
    it''s used in Finnish. I''ve never seen it in "proper" text, but sometimes in
    an informal connection, such as notes, email or text message. And of course at
    the bottom of a postcard from Torremolinos: Best, Maikki & Pekka'
  created: '2006-10-17 12:56:58'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "On the +:\r\n\r\nFuturist F. T. Marinetti proclaimed: \"The mathematical
    signs + - x serve to achieve marvelous syntheses and share, with their abstract
    simplicity of anonymous gears, in expressing the geometric and mechanical splendor.\"
    http://www.ubu.com/papers/marinetti01.html"
  created: '2006-10-17 13:56:21'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Garamond from TypoArt, Dresden, from Herbert Thannhaeuser includes all three
    options of an Et, & sign:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1_4385.jpg]\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de\"target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Preu\xDFisches
    Bleisatz-Magazin</a>\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-17 16:29:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Three? That first one is actually a \"ct\" ligature (at least I hope it is).\r\n\r\nWhich
    is not to say there can only be one or even two ampersands in a font!\r\nFor one
    thing, accomodating different vertical alignments, like one matching\r\ncaps,
    another harmonizing with mixed-case text, yet another for smallcaps, etc.\r\ncan
    be very useful.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-17 16:50:40'
- author:
    name: mb
  body: "it doesn't really help answer your question, but Alan Fletcher's iconic logo
    for the V&A makes rather good use of the ampersand...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/va_logo1_4192.jpg]"
  created: '2006-10-17 17:08:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Victoria > Albert.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-17 17:59:38'
- author:
    name: creativeles
    picture: 111954
  body: Good ol' Adobe has some interesting stuff on the ampersand too.  Imagine that!  http://www.adobe.com/type/topics/theampersand.html
  created: '2006-10-17 20:13:41'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>Three? That first one is actually a \u201Cct\u201D ligature (at least
    I hope it is)</em>\r\n\r\nYup, tis a \"ct\" ligature, but Bleisetzer must have
    seen it as an uppercase E connected to the \"t\".\r\n\r\nFYI -- my favorite use
    of ampersand: &c."
  created: '2006-10-17 21:12:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Bleisetzer must have seen it as an uppercase E connected to the \u201Ct\u201D.\r\n\r\nHeh,
    I hadn't seen that.\r\nJust goes to show: we all tend to see what we expect.\r\nAnd
    ignorance can sometimes constitute freedom from an impediment.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-17 21:33:08'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>we all tend to see what we expect.</em>\r\n\r\nWhich is particularly
    true in this case. With respect to Bleisetzer assumption that the \"ct\" ligature
    was an \"Et\" comes from where the type specimen placed it.\r\n\r\nWhy is the
    \"ct\" not listed with it's companions \"ch\", \"ck\" and \"c-swash k\"?\r\nSince
    it is placed prior to the actual \"et\" and \"&\" it made it appear as if it truly
    was an ampersand.\r\n\r\nInteresting... eh?\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-17 21:57:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "&, is also the only symbol I know of that allows one to use the same word
    five consecutive times in a gramatically proper english sentence. \r\n\r\nAs the
    Smith & Jones proprieter said to the sign painter, \"There is too much space between
    Smith and & and & and Jones.\""
  children:
  - author:
      name: eliason
      picture: 109936
    body: "<em>&, is also the only symbol I know of that allows one to use the same
      word five consecutive times in a gramatically proper english sentence.</em>\r\n\r\nYou
      haven't heard that  \r\n<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buffalo_buffalo_buffalo_buffalo_buffalo_buffalo_buffalo_buffalo\">Buffalo
      \ buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo</a>? "
    created: '2006-10-19 02:08:57'
  created: '2006-10-18 16:47:55'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "\"And would you believe I got an invitation today to attend an alumni event?
    It was addressed to \u201CStaff, Faculty, Alumni + Friends\u201D? The current
    dean is an architect\u2026.\"\r\n\r\nHehe Linda, you have no idea how funny that
    strikes me at this particular moment. Aren't universities fun? .~ (to refer to
    another thread...)\r\n\r\nHere, though, we prefer to ALWAYS spell out our \"and\"...
    even when it looks cleaner and makes more sense to use & ... \r\n\r\nI have also
    recently encountered the \"I'm not a designer, but I think this would look better\"
    administrative personnel. After a few days she stopped prefacing her comments
    with \"I'm not a designer, but\" and began simply dictating the details of the
    layout to me in emails that went along the lines of \"what about if we moved this
    left, made that bold, centred that, put the fleurons on the other headers, and
    removed the \"lines\"?\" Sure. No problem. (biting tongue to keep from saying
    those are paragraph rules, not lines.)\r\n\r\nK.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-19 18:28:13'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: ">\"I\u2019m not a designer, but I think this would look better\u201D \r\n\r\nROFL!
    \ My usual response to that is \"Yes, I could tell that you're not a designer.\"
    \ ;-)\r\n\r\nAnd no, I'm not going to the event either.\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-10-19 22:23:02'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "\r\nAnother \r\nrelated \r\ntalk \r\non \r\nthe \r\nsame \r\ntopic.\r\n>\r\n>\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/12426"
  created: '2006-10-19 23:37:12'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ampersand_6634.jpg]\r\n\r\ndoesn't really
    read et to me, must be buried in there somewhere.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-23 14:19:27'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "As james answered that the '&' is a very old ligature of french word 'et'.
    Now a days its an important part of the character set of a typeface, or you can
    say its a kind of important alphabet now...so one will(the typeface designer)
    obviously modify it taking \"&\" as a base character and not the \"et\". And thats
    y its hard to  identify the 'et' in it...but i can still seeee it;)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-24 03:20:02'
date: '2006-10-15 21:00:32'
node_type: forum
title: The difference between "&" and "and"?

---
