---
author:
  name: timd
  picture: 110125
body: "Helvetica rendered in straight lines\r\nhttp://www.peoplesdesignaward.org/detail_view.php?nomination_id=70\r\n\r\nMyriad
  doesn't come out too well either\r\nhttp://www.peoplesdesignaward.org/detail_view.php?result_set=0&q_condition=undefined&nomination_id=539\r\n\r\nTim"
comments:
- author:
    name: scruggsdesign
    picture: 128176
  body: Horrible! You'd think that on a site about design they would respect the work.
    The fonts are most likely installed on their machines. Why didn't they make their
    own specimen rather than upscaling a crappy low res web image?
  created: '2006-10-16 15:48:58'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "What fogs me is the comments as to why people think Helvetica's so great:
    what do these people do for a living?  It's obviously not something related to
    design....\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-10-16 17:33:46'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "You can always report their comments as inappropriate:)\r\nThe nominator
    works with type.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-16 18:09:49'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Tim, please tell me the general levels, and knowledge, of design are higher
    there than it is here.  Pretty please?\r\n\r\nL."
  created: '2006-10-16 18:16:05'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://www.telegraph.co.uk/arts/main.jhtml?xml=/arts/2006/02/13/badesign13.xml\r\n\r\n\"By
    what criteria would any sane person want to choose between Concorde, the World
    Wide Web and something most of us have barely noticed, the \"Verdana\" typeface?\"\r\n\r\nThe
    irony is that the page is set in Verdana (now if only there was some mark to indicate
    irony).\r\n\r\nSometimes I just have to shake my head in despair and add another
    name to my list.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-16 18:23:51'
- author:
    name: mlvr
  body: "I kind of like the straight lined Helvetica, reminds me of the result from
    playing around with letrasets and when photocopying type. It looks generated in
    a way that a designer wouldn't create it. \r\n\r\nThat little square of Helvetica
    type is more interesting to me than 99% of all normal use of the typeface.\r\n\r\n-\r\nMLVR"
  created: '2006-10-16 18:29:09'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Thanks for posting that link, Tim: great article.\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-10-16 18:38:57'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I can't claim authorship of that link, it\u2019s from Microsoft via the news
    page here at Typophile. I should also say I don't condemn Helvetica, it does take
    some thought and work for it to perform at its best, but one could say that of
    any typeface.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-17 08:09:26'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">it\u2019s from Microsoft via the news page here at Typophile.\r\n\r\nAnd
    as I put the wrong date on my post it's been at the top of the news page for months
    :-( sorry. "
  created: '2006-10-17 14:29:52'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>That little square of Helvetica type is more interesting to me than
    99% of all normal use of the typeface.</cite>\r\n\r\nIsn't being uninteresting
    the point of Helvetica?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: mlvr
    body: "I cannot think of any typeface being more interesting and involving than
      Helvetica. Teachers who prohibit their students from using it, designers condemning
      it, people making movies and books about it and so on...\r\n\r\nBut as I mentioned,
      most of the usage is quite dull...\r\n\r\n-\r\nMLVR"
    created: '2006-10-17 19:35:20'
  created: '2006-10-17 15:00:13'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "The font shown and known as \"Helvetica\" was designed by Max Miedinger in
    1937. The first production of the types was done 1957 by Haas'sche Giesserei in
    Switzerland and they called it \"Haas-Grotesk\".\r\nThey offered Haas-Grotesk
    mager (regular), halbfett (bold) and kursiv (italic). The link in the first posting
    does not show these informations.\r\n\r\n4 years later, in 1961, D.Stempel, Frankfurt
    am Main, Germany, bought Haas'sche Giesserei.\r\n\r\nAnd 1961, D.Stempel called
    this font \"Helvetica\".\r\nAnd Stempel was it, who designed lots of other versions
    of Helvetica.\r\nThis font was the No. 1 of Grotesk fonts in Germany (West Germany)
    for more than 20 years. Much more successful as e.g. Folio-Grotesk from Bauersche
    Giesserei or Akzidenz-Grotesk from H. Berthold. Every german printer who wanted
    to have a good position in his local market, used Helvetica. Because it is very
    easy to combine Helvetica with other fonts, which are no Grotesk.\r\n\r\nIf you
    are interested to see more of original Helvetica from Stempel, please visit:\r\nhttp://www.bleisetzer.de/index.php?target=shop/shop&b=0004\r\n\r\nMay
    be that pre-press professionals from today think Helvetica is boring. But Helvetica
    did a very good job in the past.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1_6230.jpg]\r\nHelvetica
    light from 1965\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de\"target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Preu\xDFisches
    Bleisatz-Magazin</a>\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-17 15:37:59'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I'm not saying that Helvetica and its predecessors are inherently bad faces:
    heaven knows how many projects I've used them in.\r\n\r\nThe problem I think many
    of us, myself included, have is that over its life, it has been  (a) overused
    and (b) frequently set poorly by people who don't know any better.  Even the best
    filet mignon tastes like shoe leather if you cook it improperly.\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-10-17 16:41:03'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "@ Linda\r\n\r\nI understand what you mean.\r\nAnd I for myself think the
    same about Folio-Grotesk and/or Lithographia. Because I used it too much for years.
    But this is my personal problem and it cannot mean that both fonts are overused.\r\nA
    fact is: The Helvetica is a very harmonic font.\r\n\r\nAnd what I wanted to say
    is: The informations on this website about Helvetica are wrong or, better, not
    correct.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de\"target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Preu\xDFisches
    Bleisatz-Magazin</a>\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-17 19:46:43'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Teachers who prohibit their students from using it, designers condemning
    it, people making movies and books about it and so on\u2026\r\n\r\nSo if someone
    were to make a movie and write a book about Papyrus, Curlz or Comic Sans they
    would become \"interesting and involving\" too? ;-)  "
  children:
  - author:
      name: mlvr
    body: People write books and make movies about Helvetica because it is interesting.
      Not to make it interesting. Comic Sans however is also in that cathegory there
      are yet to come a book or a movie about it though...
    created: '2006-10-17 20:02:23'
  created: '2006-10-17 19:47:40'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>So if someone were to make a movie and write a book about Papyrus, Curlz
    or Comic Sans they would become \u201Cinteresting and involving\u201D too? ;-)</em>\r\n\r\nHey,
    it was the last project Tom Cruise was working on before his development deal
    with Paramount got hosed, with the book by John Travolta.  ;-)\r\n\r\nL."
  created: '2006-10-17 20:04:51'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Yikes! I have a lot of respect for Ellen Lupton (the nominee), but I'm suprised
    at the mundanity of her choice in this instance. \r\n\r\n<em>I kind of like the
    straight lined Helvetica</em>\r\n\r\nThis image reminds me of the old issue with
    Berthold's proprietary postscript fonts; back in the 80s, Berthold optimised their
    postscript library so their typefaces would only image smoothly on Berthold imagesetters
    \u2013 if you ran it out on a Linotronic it would look all 'crunchy' and straight-sided
    round the curves. \r\n\r\nI once saw this effect on a theatre poster and couldn't
    tell if it had been done intentionally or not... it did make the type look more
    interesting, in a postmodernist 'oh no! the technology's s**ffed it up again'
    kind of a way. \r\n\r\nMaybe that's what design awards are now here to celebrate?"
  created: '2006-10-18 02:20:31'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "You know, Tim, there is indeed a mark for irony (or at least it has been
    planned for in this forum). It's a dot-and-tilde (.~), which idea was proposed
    by Choz Cunningham.\r\n\r\nAside from that, while People's Design Award might
    not seem appropriate. Designer's Design Award might be a good award for it --
    I mean, isn't that true?"
  created: '2006-10-18 03:52:59'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I think Tim was being, uh, well, you know.~\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>So if someone
    were to make a movie and write a book about Papyrus, Curlz or Comic Sans they
    would become \u201Cinteresting and involving\u201D too? ;-)</em>\r\n\r\n\"What's
    your favorite scary movie?\"\r\n\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">.~</a>"
  created: '2006-10-18 08:06:35'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I was being .~ and \xA7\r\n\r\nIn fact the whole post is ironic \u2013 considering
    Helvetica is (according to the nomination) a typeface for a cleaner, more equitable
    world, that it should be represented in such an unflattering light.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-18 11:30:26'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Fahrenheit 9/11 (2004)\r\nFahrenheit 9/11 \tDirected by\r\nMichael Moore\r\n\r\nor
    the 2012 movie 'the Presidency of George Walker Bush'[img:sites/default/files/old-images/453px-George-W-Bush_3523.jpeg]"
  created: '2006-10-18 13:23:59'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "\"\xA7\"?\r\n\r\nOh, dear, that mark suddenly looks a lot like a can, with
    worms crawling out of it.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-10-18 17:06:49'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Is this still a Helvetica discussion?\r\n\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de\"target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Preu\xDFisches
    Bleisatz-Magazin</a>\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-18 20:11:40'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Along with the crucifixion of Helvetica by its admirers, we're discussing
    a myriad of things.~\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The
    Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-10-18 21:22:49'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "This time, i have to correct more than one mistake:\r\n\r\nAs Bleisetzer
    has already written. Miedinger is spelled thus, not Meidinger as on the website.
    And Helvetica is not the Latin name of the country, but Helvetia is. In fact,
    their car plates say CH, for Confederatio Helvetia. \r\n\r\nThe name was, indeed,
    coined by Stempel in Frankfurt \u2013 by one of their salesmen, Herr Eul (i attach
    his original letter with the proposal). He suggested Helvetia (sic), but that
    name was deemed unusable. The new Haas Grotesk was designed in 1957, not 1937.
    After the war, Swiss designers favoured Akzidenz Grotesk from Berthold in Germany,
    so Haas needed to fight back. The foundry commissioned Max Miedinger, also a salesman,
    to design a new Akzidenz Grotesk, but more neutral. Bingo. \r\n\r\n20 years later,
    G\xFCnter Gerhard Lange at Berthold undertook the same job: he redesigned AG and
    called the result Akzidenz Grotesk Buch, which looks like Helvetica with some
    AG features like oblique terminals.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/helvetica_letter_3838.jpg]"
  created: '2006-10-18 23:35:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>People write books and make movies about Helvetica because it is interesting.
    </em>\r\n\r\nThe opposite, actually. It's the celebrity typeface. If it weren't
    so vacuous, that would detract from its ability to be famous for being famous."
  children:
  - author:
      name: mlvr
    body: "That's very cynical Nick.\r\n\r\nHelvetica is famous because it is interesting.
      (It's naive to belive that anything get famous if vacuous, ask any marketeer.)\r\n\r\nIt
      is interesting thanks to it's flexibility and legibility. It is also the result
      of a daring marketing strategy which however made it pretty much synonym with
      swiss design and also gained the status of being Swizerlands house type.\r\n"
    created: '2006-10-19 09:15:32'
  created: '2006-10-18 23:59:24'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "<i>\"It is also the result of a daring marketing strategy which however made
    it pretty much synonym with swiss design and also gained the status of being Swizerlands
    house type.\"</i>\r\n\r\nAnd all be done by a german foundry.\r\nWhat a pretty
    nice additional detail :-)\r\n\r\nBleisetzer\r\nwww.bleisetzer.de\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-19 09:28:07'
- author:
    name: mlvr
  body: As in my situtation. Doing Sweden's best advertising - in the name of a German
    agency :-)
  created: '2006-10-19 09:39:49'
- author:
    name: Christoph Coen
    picture: 111398
  body: "I never dreamt that I would ever be able to nitpick with Mr Spiekermann in
    even the most trivial detail, so this is a chance too good to miss: It's Helvetia
    but Confoederatio Helvetica (witness the official website of the Federal Swiss
    Authorities at http://www.admin.ch/ch/index.en.html). Helvetia is the Latin word
    for Switzerland, Helvetius -a -um and Helveticus -a -um are the corresponding
    adjectives (both versions of the adjective are found in Caesar).\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-19 10:11:25'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "In the letter, Eric posted, Mr. Eul, Marketing Manager of D.Stempel, told
    the general management about the current situation of Grotesk fonts in Germany.
    He says there was a kind of very famous fashion wave(?) of \"Swiss Typography\"
    (Schweizer Typographie). This does not mean only the fonts but the \"modern\"
    designs, realized by Grotesk fonts.\r\n\r\nSo he, Mr. Eul, wanted to find a name
    which the customers, the printers, associate with Switzerland, Swiss design. The
    general management thought \"Helvetia\" was is already used by Deutsche Bundesbahn
    (German Railway) for a special train. This \"Helvetica\" was the first one which
    connected Hamburg in the very north of Germany with Zurich (Switzerland) with
    only a few stops in between. \r\n\r\nSo they decided to call the font \"Helvetica\".
    And got no trouble with the german government (railway).\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\nwww.bleisetzer.de\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-19 13:25:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>(It\u2019s naive to belive that anything get famous if vacuous, ask any
    marketeer.)</em>\r\nReally?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rooneynike200606_600x354_4089.jpg]\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: mlvr
    body: please ellaborate...
    created: '2006-10-19 18:12:06'
  - author:
      name: mlvr
    body: And please Nick Shinn I am curious for you to ellaborate what you consider
      vacuous with that Nike ad?
    created: '2006-10-19 23:26:44'
  created: '2006-10-19 17:45:05'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">It is also the result of a daring marketing strategy which however made
    it pretty much synonym with swiss design and also gained the status of being Swizerlands
    house type.\r\n\r\nI think you\u2019re confusing Swiss design with design in the
    country (or more accurately confederation) known as Switzerland. Helv may be associated
    with \u201CSwiss design\u201D, but I think Frutiger\u2019s types (Univers and
    Frutiger) are Switzerland\u2019s signature types.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-19 22:03:37'
- author:
    name: mlvr
  body: "With swiss design I mean swiss design as a movement.\r\n\r\nAnd with being
    a Swiss house type I have to refer to  a quote from the book 'A hommage to a typeface':
    \"Helvetica is the typeface used on IRS forms. In Switzerland, it appears on everything
    from government papers to lingerie catalogues.\""
  created: '2006-10-19 22:50:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">In Switzerland, it appears on everything from government papers to lingerie
    catalogues.\r\n\r\nYou could substitute any country name for Switzerland in that
    sentence. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: mlvr
    body: Does it really matter? Imo it still proves my point, being that a good and
      daring marketing strategy and not vacuousness turned Helvetica famous :-)
    created: '2006-10-19 23:23:39'
  created: '2006-10-19 23:04:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">And please Nick Shinn I am curious for you to ellaborate what you consider
    vacuous with that Nike ad?\r\n\r\nI think you're missing the point here. I think
    Nick is saying Mr Beckham, although the world's most famous man, has little substance
    - just like Helvetica. "
  created: '2006-10-20 00:15:05'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: "Erik, thanks a lot for posting this letter, that's great! One day this letter
    will be a document as important to future typographic historians as the Le B\xE9
    Memorandum \r\n;)\r\n\r\nWas Helvetica modelled only on Akzidenz Grotesk, or did
    Miedinger use also the 'Breite Grotesk' by Schelter & Giesecke as a model? Are
    there any proofs for this claim, or are these only based on similarity?\r\n\r\nHere's
    the first appearance of the Breite Grotesk by Schelter & Giesecke \r\n(the 'Magere'
    weight only) in\r\nTypographische Mitteilungen, 3. Band 4. Heft 1890, p 673\r\n\r\n(In
    'Handbuch der Schriftarten' you can read that the Breite Magere Grotesk dates
    from 1870, but this is clearly wrong)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Schelter_4528.jpg]"
  created: '2006-10-20 00:50:26'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: "Typographische Mitteilungen [typographic reports] was a magazine published
    by  J. G. Schelter & Giesecke to promote their new typefaces and the efforts of
    the company to modernise their whole type production methods.\r\n\r\nIf anyone
    has more information about the Breite Grotesk, please let me know.\r\n\r\nFF Bau
    is is based on the \u2018Breite Grotesk\u2019.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/fontfont/bau/"
  created: '2006-10-20 01:16:36'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">Mr Beckham, although the world\u2019s most famous man, has little substance\r\n\r\nActually
    the spud-faced nipper is Wayne Rooney, and although I don't have much good to
    say about him in the way he conducts himself both on and off the pitch, he is
    well-known, in the UK at least, because he is a sportsman, he is not famous for
    being famous, I'm sure we can all imagine a better example of that level of vacuousness.\r\n\r\nBreite
    Grotesk looks too characterful to have been the source for Helvetica, but I suppose
    if one was trying to iron out any \"humanity\" it could be an inspiration.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-20 08:45:50'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "In \"Seemann, Handbuch der Schriftarten\" from 1926 are more than one \"Breite
    Grotesk\" listed, e.g. from Bauersche Giesserei from \"before 1867\".\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\nwww.bleisetzer.de\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 09:28:18'
- author:
    name: mlvr
  body: "Sii, you seem eager to clear things out for me. And after clearing out that
    it was actually Wayne Rooney on the poster and not Becks as you suggested - perhaps
    you can explain to me in what way Helvetica has little substance?\r\n\r\n(Worth
    to mention might be that Helvetica is by far not my favourite typeface, I just
    find it hard with people always accussing it for lacking character etc.)"
  created: '2006-10-20 09:54:06'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Surely the part of the point of Helvetica was the characterlessness in that
    Modernist way of making machines for living, sitting, reading etc.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-20 10:23:05'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "\"Surely the part of the point of Helvetica was the characterlessness in
    that Modernist way of making machines for living, sitting, reading etc.\"\r\n\r\nPeople
    buy letterpress fonts in my online shop.\r\nMostly they are printers. All of them
    love the old letterpress stuff.\r\nThey spend their money buying fonts from Group
    VII - Antiqua Varianten and Group VIII - Schreibschriften (DIN 16 518). But very
    often they forget to buy fonts like Helvetica, Akzidenz-Grotesk, Folio-Grotesk.
    After a year or so they start to ask for e.g. Helvetica. Because they learned
    that they need it.\r\n\r\nYou need fonts for the standard text. To make special
    fonts more important. If you only use special fonts, its confusing and does not
    look nice.\r\n\r\nHelvetica was a very good solution for all these standards.\r\nThis
    was a well working font. The glamour was given to others. But Helvetica did the
    job.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\nwww.bleisetzer.de\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 10:58:20'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">The glamour was given to others\r\n\r\nMy point was that <em>glamour</em>
    was removed for Helvetica, and it does the job in its place (although given a
    choice I would use Univers) however its place is limited and <strong>that</strong>
    is not always appreciated by designers.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-20 11:17:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> perhaps you can explain to me in what way Helvetica has little substance?\r\n\r\nI
    didn't say that, I was offering a possible explanation for Nick's posting of the
    ad (Sorry Wayne and David for the mix-up). Personally I'm completely neutral on
    Helveti(c)a. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 17:13:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "My point about the vacuousness of brand advertising has been made by the
    discussion of Rooney, not Nike. The actual merit of the product, or even what
    it is, is irrelevant, and that is the case with Helvetica's fame. People who are
    barely familiar with typoography and couldn't tell Helvetica from Comic Sans,
    and who are unaware that the sample has rendered in straight lines, have an awareness
    of \"Helvetica\".\r\n\r\nYesterday I heard the results of a focus group for a
    newspaper redesign, for which I am providing all-new fonts. Of the focus group,
    only one fellow mentioned the text type (so I must be doing ok!) -- \"Yes, it's
    Courier,\" he said, \"No,\" (quite categorically) \"It's Times.\" I suspect he
    would have identified any sans serif as Helvetica."
  created: '2006-10-20 17:38:37'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Or Arial\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sportsfilter.com/comments.cfm/6742\r\n\r\nGiven
    that the product might actually have contributed to an injury that almost (oh,
    why didn't it?) kept Rooney out of the World Cup they would prefer that their
    logo was ignored. More to the point though it was more a \"c'mon Inger-land\"-type
    advertisement than a \"buy Nike, they will improve your footballing skills\" advertisement,
    so the emphasis was not on any product.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-20 18:00:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>so the emphasis was not on any product.</em>\r\n\r\nThat is the story
    of consumer advertising for at least a hundred years.\r\nThe myth is more important
    than the reality.\r\nSimilarly, Helvetica's \"neutrality\" for typographers is
    no longer a purely formal quality (if it ever was), but operates at the level
    of myth, as explained here:\r\n\r\n\r\nWhy do you use Helvetica ?\r\nThere are
    many reasons why we use Helvetica. Each is very different and sometimes seemingly
    contradictory, and they slowly but constantly change. Some of these reasons may
    be hard to follow, but we like to believe that it is exactly the complicated nature
    of our reasoning that, paradoxically, makes our designs so practical and clear.\r\nOne
    of these reasons involves Helvetica\u2019s neutrality. Of course, we fully realize
    that no typeface is neutral, and that Helvetica\u2019s objectivity is a myth.
    But it is exactly this myth that turned Helvetica into one of the most widely
    used typefaces in the first place. So it is fair to speak of a myth that created
    its own reality. In that sense, Helvetica\u2019s neutrality resembles a self-fulfilling
    prophecy. This neutrality, real or imagined, enables us and the user to fully
    focus on the design as a whole, neutralizing the typographic layer as a way to
    keep the concept as clear and pure as possible. There are cases, however, where
    for specific reasons, the concept demands a less neutral typographic layer. In
    those cases we never hesitate to use other typefaces. But those cases are rare.\r\n\r\n--
    Norman Dexel, from emigre 65 \u201CHelvetica again\u201D:\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 18:30:52'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>Helvetius -a -um and Helveticus -a -um are the corresponding adjectives</em>\r\n\r\nYou're
    right, of course. I can distinguish a noun from an adjective in Latin (did 9 years
    at school), but this was an oversight. Which proves that one shouldn\u2019t write
    such important documents at some unearthly time in the middle of the night. \r\n\r\nThe
    fact remains that Helvetica is <em>not</em> the name of the country."
  created: '2006-10-22 22:08:17'
- author:
    name: garden
    picture: 111571
  body: "I think that name for Switzerland is Helvetia?\r\n__\r\n___________________________________________\r\n-\r\ngolden
    ratio of passion. sansogno.coastaldisturbance.com"
  created: '2007-02-09 19:57:31'
date: '2006-10-16 14:21:28'
node_type: forum
title: Everything from the wheel to the bra strap and two typefaces

---
