---
author:
  name: cuttlefish
  picture: 111881
body: "edit: For those of you joining the thread in progress, the most recent PDF
  files are at the bottom of the list of attached files in this starting post. They
  all have version numbers, in case you lose track. I'm keeping the earlier ones around
  for historical documentation of the project, but you should feel free to skip ahead
  to the most recent PDFs and come back to the old files at your leisure.\r\n--JP,
  4-18-07\r\n\r\nedit: This project has come a long way since I started sharing it
  with the community here. As it nears completion, at least in this weight and style,
  I need just a little more advice to turn that last corner. Eben Sorkin has been
  an immense help, far greater than I have a right to expect from any one person who
  I am not paying. The constructive advice of other experts (and I know you're hiding
  around here somewhere) would be greatly appreciated.\r\n\u2014JP, 2-14-07\r\n\r\n----------\r\n\r\n\r\nHere
  is yet another project I abandoned long ago. I'm trying to retrace my steps to how
  I created it and why I gave it that name. It looks more like a slightly circusy
  wood type with some modern attributes than anything Macedonian.\r\n\r\nIndeed, it
  needs a lot of work yet. My initial output is what Fontographer expells as an EPS
  of all characters, which for some reason breaks some of the points apart so I can't
  apply a fill without tediously fixing everything.\r\n\r\nI welcome any and all suggestions
  and comments, including on finding a new, more appropriately evocative name for
  the thing."
comments:
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Here goes. I'll just give a running commentary as I scroll down the PDF.\r\n\r\n-The
    'S' and 's' bug me. The contrast is really wonky.\r\n-Why are some serifs flat,
    and others curved?\r\n-'&' looks like an '8'\r\n-I dig the ball terminal on the
    '4' and some other letters. I wonder if this could be incorporated into other
    characters.\r\n-I think 'C' needs a spur.\r\n-'G' doesn't really fit. The bottom
    is too thin, and it could use a spur also.\r\n-'T' is off-putting. Maybe the curves
    on top should go the other way to better match the other characters.\r\n-'k' looks
    very poorly constructed.\r\n-The bottom of the 't' is cut off abruptly - it works
    though. Maybe introduce this into other letters as well.\r\n\r\nOverall, it's
    got a nice feel, but it's a little inconsistent. With some refinement and redrawing,
    this could be a very nice display face.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2006-10-17 20:38:08'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Thank you much, Lex. I'll try using my more usual ways to display sam[les
    next time, and get right to work on your suggestions.\r\nThat 'k' is quite wonky,
    I agree.\r\n\r\nHow do you envision these \"spurs\" on the 'C' and 'G'?"
  created: '2006-10-17 22:39:39'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Obsoive:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/clarendonC_4357.png]\r\n\r\n
    - Lex"
  created: '2006-10-18 05:17:14'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I've addressed pretty much all the concerns you pointed out, and some others
    as well. The lc \"s\" still needs work, and I'm increasingly unhappy with the
    \"e\".\r\n\r\nLots of stuff left to do, but my progress is shown on the new PDF
    up top. "
  created: '2006-10-18 23:02:21'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Some observations:\r\n\r\nAX has wrong weight distribution (it's mirrored
    to usual ones).\r\nB too big upper part.\r\nCGOD bowls slightly to light compared
    to other stroke weight\r\nJ strange\r\nK upper arm too thick\r\nS needs serifs\r\nU
    not round enough\r\n\r\ne maybe 45\xB0 is too much for the bar\r\nhmn uppermost
    parts of the bows are too much to the left. more tension!\r\nr too wide, needs
    a foot serif\r\ns too wide, needs serifs\r\nx wrong weight distribution\r\n\r\n4
    bar too high\r\n69 no weight in the bowls?\r\n\r\n\r\nHave a look at other typefaces,
    don't copy them, but see why they work, how the weight is distributed, how the
    proportions are, etc.\r\nAnd there's an error I tend to do as well: I do way too
    much special characters before the basic ones are settled. It multiplies the time
    needed for corrections...\r\n\r\nSebastian\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-18 23:36:33'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: Wow, this posting sounds arrogant, I'm sorry for that... It's late and I have
    to go to bed, but I thought feedback in a few words is better than none.
  created: '2006-10-18 23:37:37'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Thanks, Sebastian. I'll get on to those fixes you suggest.\r\n6 and 9 always
    give me trouble.\r\n\r\nThough sometimes I sketch out  few letters, I tend to
    design my fonts in Fontographer from the beginning, usually starting with \"h\",
    \"V' and \"O\" then hashing out the basic forms by collaging components from  them
    to the rest of the characters before fine tuning the shapes. This leads to all
    the mistakes you noted, but they'll eventually get worked out. It also makes it
    relatively easy to rapidly construct the special characters that, I agree, really
    would be better left for later.\r\n\r\nWhat do you think of my other projects
    here: Palormak and Cartmeign in this subforum, and Triangulor in the experimental
    section?"
  created: '2006-10-19 19:05:56'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I've made some more changes. There is still a lot of work to do, and a lot
    of little details even I notice are wrong. Still, this shows significant progress.
    New PDF up top and this here:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/agamemnon4-sample2_4372.png]"
  created: '2006-10-20 23:25:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I don't think this face will ever be useful for setting text but as a display
    face it could be quite nice. I would encourage you to reconsider each character
    & see how you could make them differfently. I get the feeling that some of them
    were made based on others to a too great a degree. I think your 4 works well desite
    it's oddity. Your 5 and 2 as well. The two is a little unballanced. The 3 is struggling.
    Perhaps one  arc should be bigger than the other or a historical form with an
    arbitary straight line should be used. The 8 too. It needs direction. Keep at
    it.
  created: '2006-10-21 00:17:26'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "The general feel I get from the caps reminds me of precast letters I used
    to use in customizing leather belts, actually -- the serifs have a real \"western\"
    zeitgeist to them, particularly the \"L\".\r\n\r\nI agree with Eben that it would
    make an interesting display face.\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-10-21 03:27:23'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Damn, I just had a big long reply and I accidentally hit a bookmark and my
    browser ate it.\r\n\r\nI'll be back once I recover from the shock."
  created: '2006-10-26 00:07:08'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Good.
  created: '2006-10-26 01:14:41'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/agamemnon6-sample2_6599.png]\r\n\r\nOK,
    it's been a while, but here I am with another go at it (again with a PDF #6 for
    closer inspection).\r\n\r\nThere are a lot of changes here, some obvious, some
    subtle. Try and find them all!\r\n\r\nMaybe I'll change the name of the font to
    \"Corinthian Leather\" unless Chrysler still holds that trademark."
  created: '2006-12-01 01:11:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "It looks like it's gelling up better. Still here is what I am thinking:\r\n\r\n-
    The Cap X looks like it needs to pee. \r\n- I think that if you look at some wood
    type you would find a model for putting the detail & charcater you have across
    without compromising the face quite so much. In particular, I am thinking that
    the serif wiggle you have in  some glyphs like cap E seem just right  whereas
    the lc m seems like a victim of imposed rules. I would start making some exceptions
    & let the m off. Some of the Serifs seem to be hiding out. They make their glyph
    look like a wall flower. wheras the 2 seems at ease with itself and the 5 is qite
    outgoing. The 4 is not keeping up. It's just too many excentric details in one
    glyph - 4 of them! Help that 9! Above all I would ask myself - what gets better
    with the wiggle? What gets worse?\r\n\r\nI hope you keep going! I still like the
    excentricity overall and I think it could become surprisingly readable. I really
    like the 'e'. Make the others play nice with it."
  created: '2006-12-09 06:46:49'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "The 9 does look like it belongs in another font entirely, doesn't it? I was
    experimenting with things and it just seemed to work for me like this. How would
    you suggest I change it? I don't want it to end up merely as a rotated 6 (I'm
    still not happy with the 6).\r\n\r\nI am working on something new for the 4. I've
    eliminated the curve on the diagonal and flattened the horizontal crossbar a bit.
    That will be up with the next installment\r\n\r\n\r\nAbout the wiggles, I find
    a certain amount of this enhances readability. I'm not sure it's having that effect
    here, but in my earlier font <a href=\"http://www.1001fonts.com/font_details.html?font_id=2205\">Gohan</a>,
    the vertical wiggle almost makes it suitable as a microfont, in spite of its heavy
    weight and rounded shapes. Of course there are some details on that which need
    further refinement too. That font has a pretty odd 4 too."
  created: '2006-12-09 21:10:17'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Definitely take my suggestion with a grain of salt ( or more ) my assumptions
    about what you want the font to do may not be correct. What if the overall shape
    of the 6 was more like the 9 ( digonal-ish) but it was tapered or had a small
    teardop. \r\n\r\nNot quite like this but \r\n\r\nhttp://www.dwr.com/images/thumbnails/tn_9774.gif\r\n\r\nActually.
    I am noticing now that you have an re-opening taper on the 2, A huge one on the
    Ampersand, a ball on the 4, r & g, x z, and then there is the finish on the s.
    Anyway. I don't think you shouyld be doctrinare about this but looking at finnishing
    strokes I am seeing more variety than is maybe ideal. \r\n\r\nAlso, looking at
    the xyz I seem to see 3 different ideas about how to manage diagonal widths. The
    y suggesdt that stroke variation will be low. The x suggests it will be high.
    The z is quite light. Looking at the e and g, both of which seem right for some
    reason, I think I see the weight I would have the xy&z adopt.\r\n\r\nI am looking
    foreward to seeing the new 4. I agree that the wiggles add to the face in general.
    Did what I was saying about woodtype make any sense to you?"
  created: '2006-12-09 21:37:11'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I'll have to do a bit more research on the woodtype, but I think I understand
    what you're getting at.
  created: '2006-12-09 21:54:13'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I'm about ready to post another revision sample, but I'm becoming bored with
    my presentation. Should I keep it the same for the sake of consistency in comparison,
    or what, if any, other direction could I go in?
  created: '2006-12-14 06:22:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Keep the 1st page the same for the sake of continuity & then use 2nd 3rd (etc)
    pages to show us how you think the face might be used to best advantage or to
    exhibit new questions, problems, alternatives or features.
  created: '2006-12-14 11:00:57'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "OK. Here's what I've been promising:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/agamemnon7-sample2_5560.png]\r\n\r\nLots
    of changes here, including a whole new teapot a, Q, accented characters, a new
    4 and 6, a bunch of changes to misc. symbols, modified x, y, &,*, \xB0, and more.\r\n\r\nMuch
    work still to do with the spacing.\r\n\r\nPDF 7 up top."
  created: '2006-12-15 00:30:03'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/agamemnon7-hawkmoth_4266.jpg]\r\n\r\nQuick
    and dirty, just to see what it looks like in different colors.\r\nWithout an idea
    in my head."
  created: '2006-12-15 06:05:17'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Very Amusing!\r\n\r\nabout the changes - I like the increased consistancy
    but the stroke contrast in the digonals seems a bit harsh. Especially on the y
    & cap V. I like the new six but I wonder if it wouldn't be better flipped for
    a new 9. What if the 6 had a longer ascending arm? I think you need to give the
    Q's bottom stoke a bit more weight to carry it off. But it's a fun idea.The e
    has to gain some weight to match or the others have to loose a little. "
  created: '2006-12-15 06:20:47'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Yeah, it looks like I got the contrast on the y backwards too.\r\n\r\nIt
    occurs to me that many of the caps are too narrow. They look all condensed while
    the lc looks all fat, even though the stroke widths are nearly the same. Also
    the O isn't obviously different from the zero. Handling this problem would mean
    quite an overhaul, though. Any idea how I should go about that?\r\n\r\nThere is
    something about the 9 that I really like. I know you keep telling me to change
    it, and I agree it is a bit strange, but it works for me.\r\n\r\nWhat do you think
    of the new 4?\r\n\r\nThe 3 does have an odd finish, but that's meant to make for
    a good &lt;3 emoticon."
  created: '2006-12-16 01:56:14'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "I love the italic <cite>g</cite> from Galliard, but I wouldn't put it in
    my Cyril. Just because a glyph is good doesn't mean it fits. The 9 is interesting,
    but I don't think it works here. I also question the motive behind the 3: to make
    a good emoticon? Which will people use more often: the 3 or the emoticon? If you
    really want to be able to have a good heart, just draw a picture of one and stick
    it somewhere in the font.\r\nIf something looks wrong, don't hesitate to fix it,
    even if it does mean \"quite an overhaul\". In your case, it actually won't take
    a whole lot to just widen the caps that need widening, like OGHCDB. Make them
    all look consistent with each other. Giving them similar amounts of white space
    is a good place to start. (This feels a bit weird, because I can remember when
    I was on the other end of this exact same critique with <a href=http://typophile.com/node/12860>Cyril</a>.
    In my case, the font was totally not what I had meant to draw the first time,
    so I redrew it, but I don't think that's really necessary here.) The new 4 strikes
    me as better, but I think I prefer the old 6. The 1 needs more character."
  created: '2006-12-16 20:48:51'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: So I've fixed most of the things that have been brought up so far. With all
    the things I've done to unify the font, it seems I've neglected the punctuation
    somewhat. It's all very square and seems undersized to me, but I could be wrong.
    Also my accents acute and grave are awfully steep. I don't use them extensively
    in my language, but does that bother anyone who does?
  created: '2006-12-19 17:50:33'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'The font is on the whole juicy. It seems like the punctuation should be too.
    The dots on the i & j seem over weight to me ( slightly ). Also the Caps now that
    they are wide enough seem to need some air. Maybe add a bit to the sidebearings.
    Look at all those Es. Also I thought I should metion that something is going wrong
    with the encoding such that some glyphs don''t display when I open the PDF. Like
    3-4 I think... I can tell you which ones later. But in the meantime what encoding
    are you using & why? '
  created: '2006-12-19 19:27:20'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/agamemnon8-sample2_4193.png]\r\nHere
    is the next iteration. changes here to the 1, 3, 6, 9, *, \xB5, B, C, D, E, F,
    G, H, L, M, O, \xD8, \u0152, P, Q, R, S, U, V, x, y, and probably some others
    I've forgotten. Widening the vowels screwed up the spacing on their accented counterparts,
    so I'm working on repairing that now.\r\n\r\nI think I did a bad thing to the
    B. Back to the drawing board on that one.\r\n\r\nThis relates to PDF 8 in the
    first post."
  created: '2006-12-19 19:27:57'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: BTW I like the new 3 6 & 9. I guess my comments about the caps were about
    the acccented caps! The others seem good I think.
  created: '2006-12-19 19:33:25'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I'm using default settings for Macintosh encoding in Mac TrueType format
    from Fontographer 4.1.5 NFPU.\r\n\r\nI did get a report of some sort of encoding
    error when I viewed the PDF, but I didn't notice anything missing from the displayed
    characters.\r\n\r\nedit: Upon further review I do notice a couple missing characters
    on the bottom line. I'm doing my PDF output with Canvas 8, if that makes any difference.
    Hey, I'm broke, and I got it for the cost of a magazine, and it does the job,
    more or less."
  created: '2006-12-19 19:37:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I'm not trying to give you a hard time. Just letting you know what happens.
    Cheers!
  created: '2006-12-20 00:31:53'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Oh, I know... Just hoping you knew how to fix it.
  created: '2006-12-20 00:47:48'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Hmm I would post a new topic about the missing glyphs here on typophile.
    That will be the best way I think. '
  created: '2006-12-20 01:12:24'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/agamemnon9-sample2_6718.png]\r\n\r\nThe
    most significant changes this time around are the punctuation and accents. All
    that was square is round now.\r\n\r\nAlso, B, f, fi, fl, and Florin have changed.\r\n\r\nOhm
    and Delta are the characters not showing in the PDF, resulting in the error message.
    I haven't a clue why yet. Version 9 is up top, and it works but for those two.
    I just need to figure out how to get the rest of the characters in there. Canvas
    8 doesn't have the character pallette to input them with."
  created: '2006-12-23 02:13:07'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Since I have the file open right now, is there anything more I can do to improve
    this?
  created: '2006-12-31 22:36:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Here are some ideas to keep you busy:  Pull the nose of the 2 in slightly.
    ( Maybe)  Give it more overshoot on top. The tops of the eights & nines seem to
    thick maybe. The left side of the 7 seems to light/weak. The curve on the lc k
    could be more weighty/exuberant. I can't find a way to love the flat r - why not
    lower the join of the n & m & make an r that matches? Why not throw in the p while
    your at it? ( it might be better like the b) What about a loop at the beginning
    of the Q's tail instead of a reverse. That might be more 'ballsy'. heh heh ( rolling
    of eyes obligatory ). But more meaninfully it would create a more 'even' feeling
    in the weights. The Q is too light now. In the case of your font I think a flat
    side to the inside of the O in OE might be better. Why does the l & t drop their
    bottom? I am not diggin' it. How does that go with the rest? I like the lc v but
    the lc w & y still don't quite sing to me. The left bottom of the lc z needs more
    weight somehow. It feels lopsided. The ae seems too wide & lumpy to me. The UC
    W could be wider. Why not? It's such an exumberant face in general why not give
    it some room? What about dropping the Join on the UC Y? It seems a bit cramped
    with those big serifs. I would add mnore weight back to the CAp S in the middle.
    I don't lknow if the UC T needs to be quite so wide. The N needs some air & width
    ( a bit ) - The C needs more space & a more gracelful left curve. The G too. Even
    more, actually. The serif on the UC M makes it look like it's sad. Your best glyphs
    have a a hardy readdy to do anything feeling about them. The UC A has it. TheB,R,g,s,o
    & V too. Get that spirit in the rest.  The $ is not wide enogh at the bese especially
    the left side. British Pound sign - same thing.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-01 22:57:28'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Eben, I agree with most of your suggestions, though I'm not sure how to efectively
    implement them all, with the exception of the lc r.\r\n\r\nI have a specific reason
    for not making the r similar to the m and n, which I go into <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/28380/\">here.</a>
    I may still try lowering the joins on m and n, but we'll have to think a bit more
    before doing anything drastic with the r."
  created: '2007-01-03 00:25:06'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Perhaps raise it slightly higher then. That has historical precedent actually.
    And in the end it's your eyes that count. Cheers!
  created: '2007-01-03 03:32:59'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Nice looking font, very consistent shapes all through the design. \r\nOnly
    things I see right now are:\r\nThe indent on the leg of the cap R, it catches
    the eye, since only that char and the lc 'k' have it. Not that it looks bad, but
    it sticks out a bit maybe.\r\nAnd the circumflex, which is a bit square / pointed
    and straight-lined, compared to the other characters. If you know what I mean."
  created: '2007-01-03 03:51:38'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Do you mean the ASCII circumflex or the combining diacritical circumflex?
    They're very and deliberately different.
  created: '2007-01-03 04:32:43'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Both, but mostly the \xEA, \xE2, etc.\r\nIf you deliberately made then different,
    you obviously thought about it, so then it's fine. :)"
  created: '2007-01-04 00:09:53'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Does the accent acute look all lumpy compared to the accent grave, or is it
    just my monitor? I saw some odd curves on the asterisk too. Anybody else catch
    anything?
  created: '2007-01-04 03:48:12'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Yes, checking pdf no.9 I see that too. The acute has a couple of 'corners'
    in it, on the left curve, not a smooth line. The asterisk as well.
  created: '2007-01-04 17:10:59'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I can't explain why that is happening. These flaws do not appear in Fontographer,
    but I see them in the PDF just as you do. The acute is a simple H-flip of the
    grave, and the asterisk points are rotated copies of the top one. I suspect some
    artifact crept in there when I added points at extrema and aligned points to grid,
    and possibly even in the output to TrueType, but I think it is more likely a flaw
    in Acrobat rendering. I'm also noticing a vertical stretch overall in the PDF
    compared to how the forms appear in my graphics programs.
  created: '2007-01-04 19:34:11'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Florin isn't working, x still has reversed stress, counter of a should be
    more symmetrical I think, and W's usually have the thicker diagonal continued
    all the way to the top. Serifs of s have no relation to other letters (consider
    making them like c, \xDF, or S), and \xDF has wrong stress: on the bottom it should
    be like s, and on the top, the outward-facing curve should have it, not the in-pointing
    one (viz. <a href=http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/sabon/roman-oldstyle-figures/win-t1/19867/character/00DF/CP2/1/>Sabon</a>).
    Z too light, WwX too heavy. Corner at bottom of inner curve of J no good. M too
    wide. Cedilla not bold enough at parts. 9 needs a corner at the terminal, not
    curves. \xA9 way bolder than \xAE. \"<cite>n</cite>-ary product\" sign comes below
    baseline. Ah, revising: so much fun, no? Keep fighting the good fight."
  created: '2007-01-05 00:19:46'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I have had similar weird glitches when I export to TrueType. I usually make
    and export it in otf. But I'm not too experienced as a type designer. But TTF-curves
    are weird, heh.\r\nWhat program did you use to set the type in, and export to
    PDF?"
  created: '2007-01-05 00:36:27'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Both the PNG images and the PDF files are generated with Canvas 8. I suppose
    I could use my ancient copy of Illustrator in Classic mode, but that would mean
    installing the fonts in the old system folder, and well, now that i think of it
    it's not too big a bother, but I don't want to bother.\r\n\r\nFor some reason
    Fog's export to PS1 fonts is glitchy (which is why I'm making as TrueType. OTF
    isn't even an option), at least when i comes to installing them-- the space gets
    all stretched out, but returns to normal after purging caches with Linotype Font
    Explorer. I'm not sure exacly where the problem lies, apart from the fact that
    I need a new compuer and software updates and I can't afford any of it right now.\r\n\r\nOnce
    I get it done, I might try making a PS font from Fontographer then converting
    that to OTF with FontForge, but I don't want to geet ahead of myself just yet."
  created: '2007-01-05 01:07:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Try renaming your font for the purposes of checking. I had Font Explorer
    seemingly cacheing some of my old data. It didn't go away util I changed the font's
    name. There is probably another work around but that's the one that worked for
    me. You should also be aware that FOG doesn't work in whole numbers. It uses fractions.
    So when you export to TT at 1000 UPM some numebers may round up or down on you
    producing results that may not be expected. You have come pretty far with this.
    Why not go the extra mile? Also, re-reading the thread I started to wonder what
    you meant by <cite>I\u2019m not sure how to efectively implement them all.</cite>
    What upm are you working in?"
  created: '2007-01-05 02:35:33'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Just that it might take more than the moment I used to write the response
    to come up with solutions to the problems you pointed out. (And likewise for some
    of Nathanael's comments.)\r\n\r\n7, k, w, y, C, G, and M you made somewhat perplexing
    comments on. The words themselves are not but figuring out how to make them happen
    is. I've already made a bunch of changes and will try some more before I make
    another test image."
  created: '2007-01-05 03:00:55'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: My em square is 1024 UPM.
  created: '2007-01-06 20:36:58'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "<cite>\u201Cn-ary product\u201D sign comes below baseline.</cite>\r\n\r\nUm...
    pardon my ignorance, but which character is that?"
  created: '2007-01-06 20:44:46'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/agamemnon10-sample2_4852.png]\r\n\r\nA
    bunch of changes here before I head out, covering most of what people mentioned.
    Another spacing error crept in as well as the recurring PDF problem.  PDF 10 on
    top."
  created: '2007-01-06 21:26:27'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: The usual UPMs are 1000 (usual) & 2048 (the microsoft standard). You can use
    something else but you might not want to. Did you mis-type?
  created: '2007-01-06 21:32:07'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: It seems like the whole thing is starting to tighten up. Would you post a
    PDF with some text so I can what's happening better? Also what about posting an
    example of how you imagine the font being used. That would helpful too.
  created: '2007-01-06 21:35:34'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "The Fontographer manual suggests a multiple of 1024 fo the em square for
    TrueType, so that's what I set it at. Naturally 2048 will double the pitch of
    the grid, which would be handy.\r\n\r\nI'll give a shot at some layouts. I'm not
    really sure what a good use for this is right now. It calls attentiont itself
    a bit too much for body text, and is a bit bold for that anyway. I might come
    up with a lighter weight version once this is nailed down and see how it works.
    Maybe with slightly looser spacing it work for advertising copy. Would you buy
    a luxury car from this font? Eh... maybe not."
  created: '2007-01-06 21:59:07'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I think I overdid the Q\u2014rather than going with a loop <i>instead</i>
    of a reverse on the tail, I did both. Is the result too heavy/busy for such an
    infrequently used letter?\r\n\r\nI took a cue from the curve of the k to reshape
    the h, m, and n. Is it an improvement?"
  created: '2007-01-06 22:04:18'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think the hmn are improved. I don't know that it completely matches the
    face yet exactly. But you should look at your b I have it match the new letters
    a bit more. Or make the others match the b. Or something else but getting them
    all on the same path. Speaking of which ... Maybe think about that p too. It's
    an odd man out. All of this is a big deal beacause you will gain in legibility
    going some ways but I know you wanteded your own solution. I would keep trying
    things. \r\n\r\nSimilarly I think you can make a case for keeping the g & q with
    the structure they have. I think you might want to bring the d in line with them
    to some greater degree. the g is looking abit too closed right now. Almost like
    an odd 8. I like the opening on the y - even though it's got the same structure
    the opical difference is huge. Optics are what count.\r\n\r\nRE; the cap Q I think
    you can make it work ( maybe) by adding weight to the bottom of the curve before
    it loops. You might have to drop the tail slightly to do that. But I bet that
    would work. I like the Q. I want it to work. \r\n\r\nThe top of the 3 feels off
    balance - maybe it's too heavy. The 8 feels denser & darker that the other #s.
    Maybe open it up a bit."
  created: '2007-01-07 02:09:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'BTW: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Table_of_mathematical_symbols'
  created: '2007-01-07 02:30:27'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: The "<cite>n</cite>-ary product" symbol is the uppercase pi. I note that you
    changed the W but not the w. I'm not entirely sure the dot in the zero works.
    The Q does seem a bit extravagant. Also, the tail of g doesn't look good--try
    squaring it out some. The point inside the k is too sharp.
  created: '2007-01-07 04:17:53'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: (Accidental repost)
  created: '2007-01-07 06:37:33'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: That's what I thought you were talking about. Fog only gives the character
    name as "product". This uppercase pi does not come below the baseline, which is
    why your comment confused me. Are you saying it is supposed to?
  created: '2007-01-07 08:27:47'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "The g hasn't changed since the v.6 beta. How does it attract attention now
    that it has been stable through 4 iterations?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-07 10:21:56'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'The thing is when you have bigger problems with a font they are more obvious
    and get pointed out first. Also, people don''t have time to look for 1000 things
    to fix -  just 10 or so. And how would you feel if you got a list of 1000 problems?
    Overwhelmed or irritated or depressed I expect. You must do whatever you want
    with your font. But I think Nathanael Bonnell ( no.3) is probably right. '
  created: '2007-01-07 15:41:04'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I posted a Q&D page layout showing the font at various sizes. It's not very
    good as a layout, but it gives an idea of what it looks like in use.
  created: '2007-01-07 20:14:29'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Yeah, I was saying it's supposed to.\r\nLooking at the font actually used
    to set text, it looks pretty good now. A good quirky feel. I maintain that the
    Q is too much. I think that (along with the Q) your most distracting characters
    right now are g,u, and maybe a. The u should probably have a different serif scheme--no
    other letters have a similar one. I'm thinking top serifs perhaps like Weiss,
    or maybe just as though taken from a rotated Agamemnon n. And the g will probably
    be okay once you square it out like I suggested. Oh, also x is a bit wide. Next
    sample post a pangram or two so we can see the whole thing in action!"
  created: '2007-01-07 22:09:24'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I realize \u220F in a Latin font is meant as a mathematical symbol and not
    for writing Greek, but looking at the wikipedia page Eben linked, \u2211 is set
    the same way in equations. Should that be similarly oversized too?\r\n\r\nLooking
    at these characters in several other fonts, I can find no consistency to this
    rule. Hoefler Text has both at standard cap height, in Helvetica they both drop
    their bottoms to the decender height, in Chicago they both go below the baseline,
    but not that deep, and in Courier they extend both above the cap height and below
    to decender level. If there is one correct way, then three of these fonts must
    be wrong!\r\n\r\nI don't think that's the case, It's just understandably confusing."
  created: '2007-01-07 22:43:37'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Pangram sheet now in the PDF collection.
  created: '2007-01-08 00:14:01'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: Yes, I forgot entirely about the summation symbol (the Sigma); that one also
    descends. Wow, we must be losers, spending this much time quibbling about whether
    math symbols descend below the baseline. (But for the record they do.) By the
    way, check out the stress scheme in other fonts' summation sybols. That's the
    generally accepted way to do it, though you could probably get away with the current
    one.
  created: '2007-01-08 02:35:17'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "In what way is the d not in line with the g and q? When I started, at least,
    the a, b, d, p, and q were all derived from each other through rotating, flipping,
    removing the stem, &c, as was the g with the addition of the hook decender. in
    fact, the h, n, and m were in this family too, just with their bases opened. I
    went with the 2 story a because the earlier \xE6 wasn't sufficiently distinct
    from the \u0153. Apart from that, are you suggesting I revert to the original
    shapes, or that I replicate the curve on the n to those letters that don't have
    it yet?\r\nI thought the blended serif-curve ripple was an identifying characteristic
    of this font. Is that worth eliminating? It seems that would be removing a cohesive
    relationship rather than adding one.\r\n\r\n\r\nDamn, that sounds plaintive. I'm
    just trying to understand the thoughts you're contributing. Most likely it's a
    matter of my lack of experience and limited vocabulary that I'm just not getting
    it. I truly value and welcome your advice, and I hope to avoid any misunderstanding."
  created: '2007-01-10 21:57:50'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I may be trying to hold you to a higher or simply different standard than
    you are interested in. Which may well be unfair. But, I think this face might
    actually sell with more of the kinks worked out. (You should get other folks opinions
    on that) \r\n\r\nBut that makes me think: what sells more? Display or text? 'Text'
    is answer. And the closer to a text face a display face is ( & this is a display
    face) so that you can use it for pull quotes & stuff the better it will sell.
    So the suggestions I have been making have been geared towards making the face
    a bit more suitable for text. If thats not your thing- no problem.\r\n\r\nSo.
    Assuming you could be interested in the text thing: About the b h n : One of the
    features that help identify a b h or n is  the notch where the leg joins. If you
    look at the face FF dax you see an alternative solution. But conventionally speaking,
    and your face has some of it's roots in convention, there is usually a notch.
    \r\n\r\nAbout rotating & mirroring: Conventionally the q should not mirror the
    p. The d aught not to mirror the b. Sure they do in some faces like DIN. But it
    is a 20th century affectation having to do with modernist reductivism. I don't
    see that focus in your type. There are many other alternatives but first let's
    look at the traditional one:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sansaslabsample_4107.gif]\r\n\r\nThese
    are from Sansa Slab (Ourtype). See how the forms differ? Look at d the q! I see
    the d & q as a more vaiable place for your wave. Maybe the r too. Maybe not though.
    I would maybe make it more narrow. Maybe a different kind of wave aught be available
    for the b h & n. So I think you should retain your ripple but think about ways
    to integrate & vary it with the greater diversity of forms found in text faces.
    Applying 'rules' can backfire if it interferes with the distictiveness of a letter.
    \r\n\r\nBTW - You are right to be concerned with cohesion, but there are many
    ways of achieving that. The wave was not enough. There is stem weight, optical
    weight matching, spacing repeated themes in the ornament, and the ends of strokes.
    \r\n\r\nIf you can clarify what you want from the face the choices are easier.
    For instance: if you plan on the face being used at 36pt and larger then your
    g with it's narrow opening may be okay. Looking at large text it doesn't bother
    me at all. But if you want people to be able to think of using this font at 12,
    14, 16pt etc; then I would definitely open that thing up right away! Context helps.
    Keep thinking about your intended use & the choices you make will be easier &
    smarter. 100% of these suggestions are refutable in the right context."
  created: '2007-01-11 08:01:22'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "It would be great if this could work as a text face. As it is, it's a bit
    too bold and tightly spaced, so I'll have to loosen it up and make a lighter weight
    version once it is fully nailed down. (To say nothing of corresponding italics.
    I've never done those before.) \r\n\r\nAnd, I have opened up the g in the next
    iteration quite a bit. I also increased the em square to 2048 (surprisingly painless).I'm
    still poking around for other things to tweak. I should be ready to show those
    developments later today.\r\n\r\nIn the mean time, here is a sample to compare
    with your example of Sansa Slab, plus a few extra letters:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/agamemnon10-shortsample_6340.png]\r\n\r\nIn
    version 11\xDF, the bowl of the b will have a similar top to the archof the h,n,
    and m. but as I understand it, you're suggesting that follow on to the p as well,
    and also be reflected on the underside of the d, q, and maybe the g.\r\n\r\nThe
    wave I speak of is most clearly evident on the top of the r, but it is present
    on the top of the p, q, and g as the curve of the bowl flows into the serif, and
    similarly on the bases of the b and d. To apply your suggestion (in the manner
    that I'm understanding it, which could be wrong) would wind up putting notches
    in the d and p that aren't there now. Am I getting this right?"
  created: '2007-01-11 19:59:12'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "You almost have me. What I am saying is that the glyphs which have bowl or
    arms that emerge from the left to right ( nmb&p & maybe r too ) will all benefit
    from being notched as in the Sansa example. Whereas the qd & g all seem to take
    to the wave shape ( on the top ) more naturally. Looking at the b I see is has
    the wave on the bottom. So there is your connection still in place. \r\n\r\nAssuming
    you agree that this is worth trying out I should add that the n & m do have that
    1st serif that make them semi cohesive already but the way the arms are coming
    out don't look quite right to me with the rest of the design. What if you used
    something more like the b's bowl top join. That feels more relaxed. \r\n\r\nAs
    for the r I would either give it a b like arm connection or alter the wave for
    that glyph. I realize that it was the concept glyph but I think it could be better.
    You could raise the height of the r's arm & ball too. And or you could try to
    make the glyph less wide. It's creating an odd break in flow as it is. The a might
    be slightly less wide too."
  created: '2007-01-11 21:56:05'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/agamemnon11-sample2_3471.png]\r\n\r\nIt
    took me a little longer than I expected but there it is, version 11, including
    a lot of the changes we've talked about. I do not like what's become of the r,
    and I'll likely revert back to the previous version.\r\n\r\nHere is that short
    sample I posted earlier done up in the new version:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/agamemnon11-shortsample_6037.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nNew
    PDFs are up on top too."
  created: '2007-01-13 02:14:04'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I like your first 'r' better also. Although the ball terminal works in itself,
    it's too slanted and sticks above the x-hight too far. And the serif is too distict.
    But you already saw that. ;)\r\nThe decrease in size of the loop in the Q opens
    the shape up, good thing. The rest of the overall little changes are improvements,
    I think."
  created: '2007-01-13 02:52:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'I think some of this is exactly right. The b p & h now have a notch but they
    also look utterly natural. They fit right in. About the lc r. I agree it isn''t
    working. Oddly enogh it looks you took both of the ideas I was suggesting for
    the r at once! I was thinking high or less wide. It''s actually incredible cool
    to see both just from an interest point of view and I think you did a great job
    but I think one or the other is right way - especially now. I would try less wide
    and model it partly on the n. The g looks much more readable at small sizes. There
    rae still some letter relationship things left - like the am&b all seem to be
    thinking about different x heights. Do you see what I mean? I think I like the
    a as the model for ideal height the best. What do you think? '
  created: '2007-01-13 03:09:36'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "The a is a bit taller than the rest of the lc, a side effect of swithching
    to the two-story design. but looking at it that is probably a better height to
    aim for with the rest of the letters. It will mean making adjustments to almost
    half the characters, but it should be worth it.\r\n\r\nJelmar, I think you could
    be seeing an illusion in the Q. The loop is larger, not smaller, than in the previous
    version, but there is an overlap in the loop that got rendered even-odd by Canvas
    exporting to PNG and needs to be made solid. It should render correctly in the
    PDF samples."
  created: '2007-01-13 03:28:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I was looking at the PDF of pangrams and it struck me that when you are done
    with the next round of changes it might be most productive to start altering spacing
    and then maybe kerning. \r\n\r\nI have been wondering what effect the rolling
    shapes would have when set into text. If for instance they would produce an unpleasant
    unevenness or if they would be colorful and attract the eye. Of course it's a
    little preliminary to say, but I think it's the later & better of the two. Nice.
    I especially like the z. It's really doing it's job."
  created: '2007-01-13 09:01:39'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Ohh, yes I see. I was mistaken, I switched them around.\r\nWell I guess I
    like the previous Q better then. Although you did reduce the weight of the loop,
    which also works."
  created: '2007-01-13 13:09:35'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I think now might be a good time to look at how far this has come along.
    Remember, this is something I started a several years ago before picking it up
    again last October. Here is pretty much what I started with (corresponding with
    the agamemnon 4 PDF):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/agamemnon4-sample2_4699.png]\r\n\r\nAnd
    here is where I'm at as of yesterday (v.11\xDF):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/agamemnon11-sample2_5735.png]\r\n\r\nWhat
    do you think of how this is evolving so far?\r\n\r\nCome to think of it, I should
    try that same layout with an even earlier version. I can't think of why I didn't."
  created: '2007-01-13 22:41:58'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/agamemnon01-sample2_3832.png]\r\nWell
    here it is, derived from the oldest backup I could find, created 3/17/01, last
    modified 9/1/03."
  created: '2007-01-13 23:08:13'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Yes, it's gotten much better. What's next? Will keep on with it - or put it
    away for a while?
  created: '2007-01-17 08:20:08'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I have another update to show. There are just a few kinks to kick out of
    it. \r\n\r\nI solved one missing glyph problem (seems inherent to Canvas 8) but
    for some reason the lc y acute and multiply won't generate in the TrueType font,
    and I'm having loads of problems when I output to PS1 format. A whole bunch of
    glyphs go missing and the space comes out four times too wide. \r\n\r\nI might
    have to boot into OS9 and see if that solves the problem, though I dread having
    to do that.\r\n\r\nPDFs seem to generate just fine from the print dialog in TextEdit,
    so I'll be using that for my character sample. I'll have to see if I have anything
    else that will do as well and allow a 2 cloumn layout for a text test."
  created: '2007-01-17 15:16:25'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Well, the above issues remain unresolved, but here is revision 12:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/agamemnon12-sample2_6735.png]\r\n\r\nI
    normalized the x height overshoot of rounded lc to match the a, redid the r again,
    along with \xE6, \u0153, more subtle tweaks to move some serifs that weren't lining
    up across the board.\r\nLoosened up the spacing a bit too and I think it's good,
    but the kerning pairs still need work. Any flaws you can cal my attention to would
    be appreciated.\r\n\r\nThe new PDFs are multipage documents. You may want to only
    print the first one or two of each. "
  created: '2007-01-17 16:20:06'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Maybe there is missing info in the glyph itself, or wrong info. I ended up
    pasting my outline data into a whole new font 'holder' to get rid of a corruption
    problem. I don't know that any of this is what will help you - but it might. The
    other thing is you might want to search the Typo-L archives and typophile archives
    for similar problems that may have been solved already or create new threads on
    typophile with one specific problem per thread. There is also a MSN group for
    the company Fontlab - and you could post there as well to see if anybody can help
    you get a grip on the tech.
  created: '2007-01-17 16:58:05'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Aside from the technical issues I've already mentioned, is there anything
    that still sticks out as inherently flawed? How does the spacing look now?\r\n\r\nI've
    already widened the feet on the Ohm from what I've shown. I'm still a bit concerned
    with the terminals on the C, G, S and c, e, s groups. Might as well bring 2, \u20AC,
    \xA7, \xA3, \xA2, and $ into the discussion too. Should I force them all to match
    each other, or are they fine as they are, or do some need fixing and not others?
    I'm at a bit of a loss at the moment.\r\n\r\nI've copied and pasted the characters
    into a new FOG file. Sadly, the guides and templates did not carry over, but there
    was so much dead weight in there I suppose that's for the best. If I need reminders
    of the past I can look in the old files."
  created: '2007-01-19 21:02:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "About the lc : I can thing of two things to try : You could pull the upper
    arm back slightly & see if you like that better at text size. OR you could add
    weight to it and move the spacing slightly further to accomodate it.\r\n\r\nI
    think the e is fab. You could add a little weight to the bottom - not an issue
    at display size but it would make the text size work better. Maybe the s could
    benefit from some similar tratment above & below - but be careful. Even small
    changes are a big deal!\r\n\r\nI basically like your CG& S. What issues do you
    see?\r\n\r\nThe main thing I am noticing at text size is that the X height portions
    of letters are maybe too contrasted with the overshoots. The w is dwarfed. The
    m & n seem to jump. I don't think you have to match the usual text convention.
    But the 'deviancy' could be softened.\r\n\r\nBTW if all this seems too text centric
    the other thing you could do is go back & make a display version! That would be
    an awesome pairing.\r\n\r\nWhat about a ball terminal on the 2? The Pound Serling
    might be better with one too.\r\n\r\nBTW I really like the german double s. Could
    I see it in use? \r\n\r\nI think the euro is okay but it is a little light. What
    about a heavier initial mark on the right?\r\n\r\nThe Bar D ( Eth) & Bar L have
    bars that are too heavy. The lc eth has the cross bar at too acute of an angle.
    and it is too far down. Have you seen this? < a href=http://briem.ismennt.is/2/2.11/index.htm>(link)
    Thorn and eth: how to get them right</a>\r\n\r\nWhat is next to that Yen Sign?
    It seem interesting!\r\n\r\nThe infinity is pretty weird. What's the idea there?\r\n\r\nWhat
    if the fi lig joined at the top rather than the bottom of the dot?\r\n\r\nWhat
    precedent is there for a curl under the 'mu' sign? That looks odd to me.\r\n\r\nApart
    from a funny feeling the sterling sign is going to fall over I think I like the
    Currency symbols. They seem to match the spirit of what your doing.\r\n\r\nThe
    Section symbol seems to belong in another font though. It's so quiet & small.
    Maybe try making a new one from a Cap S. Ahve a look at some other fonts. Also
    it should be bigger and taller - that is the Height should be that of the Cap
    but it should descend to the depth of the lc g.\r\n\r\nI saw a lc k like yours
    the other day on a font caled Olive Green Mono. It's on the italic. I suggest
    you have a look at it! It has a motion woth emulating.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-19 22:31:15'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "you mean this ?:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Jasonchop_6508.png]\r\n\r\nIt's
    a personal logo of a sort. The father of my girlfriend at the time was a curator
    at the National Museum in Taiwan, and quite an accomplished ink painter and calligrapher
    himself, helped me with the design. I forget what it literally translates to,
    but it kind of sounds like \"Jason\". It's the first thing I ever literally carved
    in stone. \r\n\r\n\r\nSince then I've put it in the \"apple\" key space in my
    fonts. Maybe it's not right, but I don't think it's right to put the Apple, inc.
    logo there either unless they're licensing the font.\r\n\r\nThe reverse curl of
    the mu is indeed rare (I've usually seen them extend left and hang straight),
    but I have seen it in other fonts. I'll have to get back to you on which ones.
    \r\nToo many older fonts never even bothered with matching shapes for all these
    special characters and just substituted from whatever their basic serif or commercial
    pi font was. I hope that doesn't go on too much anymore.\r\n\r\nI have read Briem's
    pages, but it looks like I'm due for another review.\r\n\r\nIf the fi lig connected
    to the top of the dot instead of the bottom, the arch of the f would be much wider
    and more open. The hook of the regular f is very tight in comparison already.
    Is it wise to make them more dissimilar?\r\n\r\nI'm not sure what I was thinking
    with the infinity other than I did not want it to be a sideways eight.\r\n\r\nThis
    is something I've been meaning to ask in a more general context (rather than specific
    to this font alone) but exactly what features differentiate a text and display
    face (and other optical size categories, if that's the right term) of the same
    weight?\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-19 23:44:25'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "While I haven't found another mu with a similar recurve to the one in Agamemnon,
    the following have at least a noticeable rightward hang to the descender:\r\n\r\nAdobe
    Garamond\r\nBodoni\r\nITC Cheltenham\r\nSouvenir\r\nITC Veljovic italic\r\n\r\nWhat
    I noticed a lot more of, though, was the use of an italic mu in otherwise upright
    fonts, and quite frequently a mu from an alltogether different font, often without
    even regard to matching weights. These are from the big foundries like Adobe,
    Bitstream, URW, etc. Those that do have a matching mu often look like a u with
    a p descender snapped on the left upright, though about as often there is a lachrymal
    descender.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-20 00:31:08'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "The C, G, S, and \u20AC each have a different spur on top. I think the one
    on the C is the weakest, while the one on the S is a bit too strong to directly
    transplant to the rest of the group. I just feel there must be some way to make
    them more consistent without making the designs fall apart individually."
  created: '2007-01-20 00:43:02'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Ouu. I found a very good example of a right-hooked mu, in Halter from the
    Apostrophic Lab.\r\nI don't know how much of a precedent that counts for in font
    court, but there it is."
  created: '2007-01-20 01:29:34'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> This is something I\u2019ve been meaning to ask in a more general
    context (rather than specific to this font alone) but exactly what features differentiate
    a text and display face (and other optical size categories, if that\u2019s the
    right term) of the same weight? </cite>\r\n\r\nThis is topic much discussed. There
    are ways of searching typophile - ( admitedly not all the search boxes work for
    me) but google can help. In general though it's things like x height being in
    a certain range and a a whole bevy of other tendencies. Really your face is never
    going to be used to set a novel or a whole story in a magazine even - so it will
    not be a text face per se. But it could be used for pull qotes and a whole range
    of other near text tasks now that it would not have been acceptable for before.
    Actually, do you agree it is better now - or not so much?\r\n\r\nAbout the serifs-
    (CGS etc.) Your right about their needing to be different while maintaing consitancy.
    My adice to is to go look at the many & in some cases contradictory things that
    have been done & find a model which you think suits your font best & try it. Alternatively
    - trust your eyes. Find what feels right. Try things. \r\n\r\nI was looking at
    the mu in the new Arno Pro from adobe & it actually kinda close to yours. It's
    basically down with a slight curve in & then a ball-ish blob. It's less wild than
    yours if you see what I mean. But realated. It comes with the trial version of
    the latest Photoshop. Maybe it's in the font shops too. The bold 36pt has a weight
    kinda like yoyr too. Have a look if you want."
  created: '2007-01-24 02:38:54'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Well, just to see how it looked, I did actually transplant the spur from
    the top of the S to the C, G, and \u20AC, and y'know, it works well enough, and
    much better than what was there before. I think the spur on the Euro mark is supposed
    to be angled, though, so I might have to alter that one some.\r\n\r\nI've calmed
    down the mu. It still has a curved stem but the descender ends in more of a blob
    than a hook.\r\n\r\nI ought to have the new one up tonight, or maybe early tomorrow."
  created: '2007-01-24 03:44:54'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/agamemnon13-sample2_3552.png]\r\nHere
    is version 13 (associated PDFs up top as usual. randomtext shows \xDF, \xF0, and
    \xFE in use, though the passage is nonsense.)\r\n\r\nIn addition to the points
    touched upon earlier, I raised the lc serifs to the x-height, reversing the slopes
    on most of them. This results in some of the serifs being tapered, which I couldn't
    quite figure out how to match on the v, w, x, and y. Maybe it doesn't matter.
    At least there isn't that big jump between the serif and the humps of the m, &c.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-24 21:29:07'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I have printed out the latest. I am looking foreward to checking it out.
  created: '2007-01-24 23:55:56'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Overall I am finding the face really really pleasant. I especially like the
    k oe ae r s e h. \r\n\r\nMy opinion is not informed enough so take it with a grain
    of salt but I like the german double s too. Maybe ask a german speaker about that.
    \r\n\r\nNice!\r\n\r\nBut of course I found things that bugged me too. So here
    is what I noticed when I printed the pangram sheet: \r\n\r\n- on the second line
    'funtidrk' the ti seem to be clashing. It's a spacing kerning issue. But before
    you address that you might want to alter the  't' which looks odd & a little weak
    compared to the robustness of the other glyphs. The ending that works for l is
    not strong enogh for the t\r\n\r\n- with such a robust face the 'eth' ( reverse
    italic looking d with a slash) will need to be ajusted the slash is still in danger
    of being swallowed by the bowl. Why not extend the height of the ascender to that
    of the h & d?\r\n\r\n- I am still finding the Cap M looks pidgeon toed. Can you
    alter those serifs at the bottom?  On a related note the serif in the upper right
    of the Cap N seems overlong to me.\r\n\r\n- If the end of the question mark stroke
    ( near the dot) was just a bot lighter and perhaps had form more lik ethe end
    of the lc r I think it would be better.\r\n\r\n- the lc u seems too wide. Try
    reversing that lc n perhaps. It needs to have that bite out of it too - like the
    nmr & so on.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-25 18:32:50'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: So on the t, do you think it should have a full hook, as the decender of the
    j, or a flat base like the f?
  created: '2007-01-25 20:08:48'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'I think the t would look bizzare with the flat base. But try it & the reverse
    j hook & some other things besides. I suspect it will need it''s own shape. But
    you can start from those places. Also you could try clamping on the trail end
    of the lc z  for fun too. '
  created: '2007-01-26 01:12:44'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Dang, I have a drawing of the t to share and now the \"insert image\" doohicky
    isn't working.\r\n\r\n\r\nAnyway, I tried it with the ball terminals from the
    j and z, and they just seemed too out of place above the baseline like that, so
    I took the flare terminal from the c and shortened it up a tiny bit. With a lengthened
    crossbar, I think it looks pretty good. I hope the description is enough, since
    I can't get the picture to upload."
  created: '2007-01-26 20:48:32'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Let's see if this works:\r\n<a href=\"http://img484.imageshack.us/img484/8589/screenshot0212my0.png\">link
    to picture on ImageShack.us</a>\r\n\r\nCan't seem to hotlink an image either."
  created: '2007-01-26 21:01:43'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Jason, what is the latest PDF. I want to peek and give you my 2\xA2 but am
    too darn lazy to play catch up."
  created: '2007-01-26 22:59:03'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Miss T: The last three PDFs at the bottom of the list of attachments are
    the most recent. Each begin with \"agamemnon13-\" and refer to the same font version.
    \"allcahracters\" shows all the characters in the font at 48 pt. except the multiplication
    sign and y acute, which for some reason Fontographer won't include when generating
    the font file. The other two show the font used in blocks of text.\r\n\r\nThe
    image linked above your post shows changes to the t after those PDFs were made."
  created: '2007-01-26 23:12:30'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "What about looking at other fonts with similar charcateristics? Ball terminals
    in them and a heavy weight like this & so on. It might be very useful to observe
    what they do and how they do it. Also : A pencil & paper might be just the right
    tool at moment. ;-)\r\n\r\nTiff, thanks for taking a look. If this font seesm
    like the cup of tea of  any typophiles you know please let Jason know. I have
    been doing my best but I think he would benefit from a diversity of opinions now.
    Take a look at the 1st version. I think he come a long way. :-)"
  created: '2007-01-27 00:18:34'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: Your y-acute appears to have the accent after the letter.
  created: '2007-01-27 02:14:05'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "In the text sample, yes it does. The proper combined y acute isn't in the
    font so I typed in the accent after the y. \r\n\r\nIt exists in the FOG file,
    but it won't come out when I generate a TT font file from it. I guess I'll have
    to spring for the upgrade one of these days."
  created: '2007-01-27 02:29:16'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Just for fun, I've been making some short words and testing them out on WhatTheFont
    over at Myfonts.com, to see if there is anything similar out there already. One
    thing I've discovered is that their OCR initially recognizes my k as an h, and
    that there is no other instance of a cursive k like this in an upright font, at
    least as far as the matching engine can tell.
  created: '2007-01-27 02:49:49'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/agamemnon14-sample2_4680.png]\r\nIn this
    14th iteration, the t, r, u, &, ?, and \xA3 have undergone significant changes.
    There are also subtler adjustments all around.\r\nI'll get PDFs for your high
    resolution perousal posted shortly.\r\n\r\nI'm going to be away from my computer
    for about a week now, so please take your time picking this apart in detail."
  created: '2007-01-28 17:47:46'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: To name but two, Bernhard Modern and Berlin Sans have cursive k's despite
    uprightness. (Incidentally they were both designed by Lucian Bernhard.)
  created: '2007-01-30 01:21:49'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I knew there had to be something out there. Either it means WhatTheFont is
    dumb or Bernhard Modern and Berlin Sans are not in its database. \r\n\r\nWell,
    it is possible that those fonts are sufficiently distinct in other ways that they
    wouldn't score a match with what I have here, but still...\r\n\r\nAnyway, any
    feedback on the latest update?"
  created: '2007-01-31 06:03:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Here is some: \r\n\r\n- The exclam point is too uniformly fat. It's a good
    weight but it needs some thin parts too.\r\n- The bottom of the lc g seems too
    light.\r\n- The cross bar on the t & f seem too light. The bottom of the g too
    perhaps.\r\n- The double l looks great. The k still seems tasty too.\r\n- The
    w is too wide. It looks lile it's getting pulled to the left by the ear.\r\n-
    The u is wider than the n. Why is that?\r\n- The stem width feel irregular. The
    too wide d, the r too, the might be too thin. the 1 too.\r\n- The 'el' l's bottom
    could drop past the baseline.\r\n "
  created: '2007-02-03 08:34:52'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I appreciate all the help you're giving me, Eben. Still, I can't help but
    wonder what might happen if still other voices were to make themselves heard.\r\n\r\nI'll
    give the ! a shot, but I'm not sure how much I can do with it.\r\n\r\nI may be
    putting too much effort into making the thickness of the horizontals consistent.
    There is room for more variation. The t, f, g, and others will benefit.\r\n\r\nAll
    the letters with strong diagonals (e.g.: A, K, R, M, N, V, W, X, Y, Z, k, v, w,
    x, y, z) give me trouble. What am I doing right in some that can be applied to
    fix what is wrong with the others?\r\n\r\nThe u is not simply a rotation of the
    n. Is the difference in width causing further problems? Would the problems be
    resolved by matching the widths?\r\n\r\nI'm fairly certain the stems are of consistent
    width, but I will measure them again to make sure, Even then, some might be giving
    the illusion of being irregular and need adjustment to compensate.\r\n\r\nYou
    mention a couple pairs of letters (ll, el) I hadn't really given much thought
    to those or other pairs besides kerning. Should I make a contextual substitution
    for the el pair? I don't think I can do that in Fontographer. I haven't even begun
    to touch on learning the wonders of preparing OpenType fonts, and the only tool
    I have to do that with anyway is FontForge. I'd like to get the basic letter shapes
    settled before trying the fancy stuff."
  created: '2007-02-05 09:50:25'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> I appreciate all the help you\u2019re giving me, Eben. Still, I can\u2019t
    help but wonder what might happen if still other voices were to make themselves
    heard. </cite>\r\n\r\nI could not agree more.\r\n\r\nDo you have good relations
    with anybody else on the type board? Why not email some people you respect & ask
    them if youcan email them a PDF?\r\n\r\n<cite> The u is not simply a rotation
    of the n. Is the difference in width causing further problems? Would the problems
    be resolved by matching the widths? </cite> \r\n\r\nYou are right about the n
    & u not just being rotated! But I think that your n rotated would be a better
    base from which to work out a corrected u than the one you have now. And you would
    be starting with a width & stem weight that was matching. \r\n\r\n<cite> I\u2019m
    fairly certain the stems are of consistent width, but I will measure them again
    to make sure, Even then, some might be giving the illusion of being irregular
    and need adjustment to compensate.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat might be going on. Yeah.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    I\u2019ll give the ! a shot, but I\u2019m not sure how much I can do with it.
    </cite> \r\n\r\nIf it was me I would narrow the beginning of the base of the stroke
    inward to create a contrasting weight - so that the top flares out in comparison.
    Have a look at other faces though & see if any of them inspire.\r\n\r\nAbout the
    diagonals. I have a couple of thoughts about that. One is that compared to the
    issues you have solved now these were more minor. It may be a good time to adress
    them now however. On some level I have been reticent to suggest changing these
    until I saw the effect of the other changes because the two aspects relate to
    each other and with one thing sorted out for the most part it's easier to se what
    to do about the next. I also had a sense from you (and I wasn't sure I disagreed)
    that some of the important character of the design might be caught up in these
    diagonals & serifs.\r\n\r\nBut now that I see where we are I think that yes you
    could adjust things. To my mind the biggest blockage in getting the diagonals
    sorted is the serifs. Most of the glyphs have an unusual pidgeon toes look to
    my eye. I think that may be fine now and a source of color in the face but I think
    it may just bee too strong. The serif have a big impact on how the diagonals feel.
    Why not bring them in on the interior a little in some cases or center them more?
    I would try both & see what you think. More centering could bring up letter spacing
    issues of course.. \r\n\r\nBut let's do this. Let's pick just 3 letters & try
    a few things with them. \r\n\r\n- UC V let's try trimming the inside serif on
    the right side. \r\n\r\n- For the K let's try bringing the upper diagonal stroke
    back to the left a little. The join can occur higher up. \r\n\r\n- In the case
    of the lc x offset the lighter digonals by making the pitch or angle more vertical.
    You could also widen & open the letter up a little by offsetting the heavy diagonals
    more too. You don't have to do that with the UC X because the glyph is less cramped
    with stuff going on. \r\n\r\nThere are other ways of doing these things too. Look
    around try different things.\r\n\r\nWith diagonals the solutions are often one-off.
    A common approach or priciple might be shared across letters but the circumstances
    are often too unique for the 'solution' to be common across more than one letter.\r\n\r\nabout
    the el: I didn't mean the e & the l. sorry. It's jist that l & 1 look alibe so
    I was sounding it out. All I meant was that with the base of the l having the
    shape it does I would be good if it overshot the baseline. You could also change
    the shape to be flat & sit on the baseline. I am not suggesting either one is
    better. I just think the l floats as it is & looks odd.\r\n\r\nwhat don't you
    like about the lc z?\r\n\r\n<cite> I\u2019d like to get the basic letter shapes
    settled before trying the fancy stuff. </cite>\r\n\r\nexactly. I agree.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-05 17:57:30'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: There isn't a particular problem I'm having with the z, but it, like the others
    I mention, has the diagonal stroke, which, by the function of the software's drawing
    tools, are a bit more difficult to adjust than the strictly vertical and horizontal
    lines and keep consistent angles and stroke widths, especially when they intersect
    another stroke. It isn't <em>that</em> difficult, but it does involve some extra
    steps.
  created: '2007-02-05 18:42:38'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Good relations? No, but I wouldn't go so far as to say I have <em>bad</em>
    relations with anyone either. I just don't really know anybody.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ag14-iillj1t_4639.png]\r\nSo,
    how is it the I, lc l, and 1 resemble each other? I thought I had made them fairly
    distinct.\r\nIn earlier versions, the l did descend, as did the t. \r\n\r\n\r\n(Have
    you noticed that dark chocolate Hershey's Kisses\xAE have a subtle cinnamon flavor
    undertone?)"
  created: '2007-02-05 19:17:27'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> So, how is it the I, lc l, and 1 resemble each other? I thought I
    had made them fairly distinct. In earlier versions, the l did descend, as did
    the t. </cite>\r\n\r\nOh! I see what you mean - I don't mean in general I mean
    as far as their bases were concerned. They have flat bottoms with serifs. The
    l does not. That's what I meant to get across.\r\n\r\n<cite> (Have you noticed
    that dark chocolate Hershey\u2019s Kisses\xAE have a subtle cinnamon flavor undertone?)
    </cite>\r\n\r\nYes. Sometimes. I think they do it when they cocoa they are using
    is lacking something."
  created: '2007-02-05 20:43:12'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Here it is, version 15\xDF:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/agamemnon15-sample2_5617.png]\r\n\r\nTell
    me what changes you can spot before I post the PDFs. I have to run, so that won't
    be at least until next morning."
  created: '2007-02-08 04:31:12'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Nobody spotted it? \r\nIn addition to most of what's been discussed, I changed
    the !, \xA1, gave all the horizontal strokes a bit of a flare before the terminal
    serifs, evened out the length of the horizontal serifs all over (though I think
    in some cases I shouldn't have), reshaped the J and a few other things I can't
    quite recall.\r\n\r\nPDF set 15 (3 files) is now attached on the first post."
  created: '2007-02-09 02:22:03'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I am up to my eyeballs but I will look again soon. Looking good though!
  created: '2007-02-09 03:39:21'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "You do what you gotta do to put food on the table, Eben. You've already been
    a far greater help than I could have hoped for. \r\n\r\nNow, if only I could somehow
    attract other experts to have a look at  this project. Is it uncouth to advertise
    this thread in another forum section, like \"Design\"?\r\n\r\nShould I be typing
    things I mumble under my breath like that?"
  created: '2007-02-10 01:09:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks! I appreciate that. You have been good at taking my suggestions in
    too. About the muttering: I think it's okay. \r\n\r\nHere is what I would do:
    If you have been on the board long enough to know who you respect here; tell them.
    Ask them for help. Be ready for harsh reality or praise. Whichever it is. It might
    also be that they don't have time or they don't think enough of the design to
    rate it. That would be the worst I suspect. But be ready. \r\n\r\nThe thing is,
    when you started this design looked pretty scary. Not that it was ugly. It just
    had a ton of unresolved aspects. It probably looked like too much work to wade
    into casually. Now though I think you have a shot. You have done much of the that
    work now. Your face is decidely quirky but it's getting more solid all the time.
    And quirky & solid are a great combination I think. \r\n\r\nAnd I do want other
    folks to have a look in. I think the font will benefit from that.\r\n\r\nDo you
    know how to use the typophile IM? \r\n\r\nDo you know how to access user profiles
    & find out if they accept email or not?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-02-10 10:05:59'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "So anyway, I'm getting more satisfied with how this is looking. I still have
    serif issues, but right now I'n giving another go at the Q. I have a new design,
    with the loop in a more customary position, but I'm afraid it is getting too \"2\"like,
    and not really fitting in with the rest of the font, no matter how hard I try.
    Tell me what you think so far, please.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ag16-Q-1_5890.png]\r\n\r\nStupid
    Canvas 8 won't fix the overlap. I'll do that later, but I'll keep it while I'm
    working on the overall shape."
  created: '2007-02-14 21:29:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I think there is something worth keeping in this idea. And that there are
    several ways to find a way of doing that. The idea I have is that you could begin
    the stroke not inside the o but instead at the left of the loop. But that might
    be sucky. Try it & find out. I would sketch it in pencil over & over until you
    get what you want. And I would consider some more expected options too. Leave
    yourself open to the best solution. Have you contacted/email anybody on the board
    to ask about the font? I am glad it's giving you greater satisfaction. I have
    been told by people I trust that sometimes the best thing after an intense bout
    of development is to take a break & work on something else to give your eyes &
    brain a chance to freshen up. I am not saying that's what time it is - just that
    it's an option.
  created: '2007-02-17 06:17:41'
- author:
    name: Jeremy Dooley
    picture: 110877
  body: "I like it, although I agree it is much like a 2. In context, it would probably
    work out ok. You might just include it as an OpenType alternate.\r\n\r\nJeremy
    Dooley\r\nwww.insignedesign.com"
  created: '2007-02-19 07:09:02'
- author:
    name: Marten Fischer
    picture: 112043
  body: The new Q is very Goudy-looking. It reminds me of his Q in <a href="http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/p22/goudy-aries/">Aries</a>
    or in <a href="http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/goudy-wtc/">Goudy Swash</a>. I
    think it will work, mainly due to the fact that when in use it will most likley
    be combined with other characters.
  created: '2007-02-19 10:53:16'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I just saw a Q very like yours and I finally think I get what you are up to
    here. It was an Italic Q cut for Elzevier foundry (pub appox 1650-1700?). Unlike
    your K I don't know if you can made the Italic form work here. But I encourage
    you to try just for kicks. Where did you get the idea for this Q?
  created: '2007-02-19 16:04:06'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Two things inspired the new Q. The first being that the previous Q is kind
    of weird, and the second in that I liked what happened when I added the loop to
    the pound sterling, so I wanted to see if it would work on the Q. I didn't really
    look around too much for historic inspiration as much as my vague memories of
    elementary school handwriting lessons (which among other things gave me a psychological
    block against writing to this day).\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ag13pound15poundQ_5551.png]
    [img:sites/default/files/old-images/ag16-Q-1_4741.png]\r\n\r\nI guess my intention
    was to get something a little more normal for this character and as far as that
    goes it failed pretty badly. I suppose I could go back to an early version of
    the Q resembling an O with a stick through it, but I don't really like that idea."
  created: '2007-02-19 16:20:56'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "@Jeremy Dooley:\r\nI'd love to do OpenType alternates and discretionary ligatures
    and all that fun stuff, but I'm still using Fontographer 4.1.5, which does not
    have that capability, and evidently has further problems working in Classic mode
    under OS X. When I can afford the FOG upgrade and/or crossover to FontLab (or
    ever figure out FontForge) I'll make an effort at implementing all that."
  created: '2007-02-19 19:56:15'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "3 pages of intelligent critique and subtle iterations is alot to wade into!
    I feel like Eben has already answered very well on all the details that actually
    have answers, and speculated far beyond my skill level on those that are arbitrary.
    But outside voices are being welcomed so....\r\n\r\nI am going to have a go at
    the entire set, by commenting on version 0.15's glyphs as they strike me. This
    may be too little or too much, but I can't tell before I start. No matter how
    I am phrasing it, I am not saying any are \"right\" or \"wrong\", but simply musing.
    Take any negativity as a mis-emphasis on my part. This face is already beautiful.
    Ignore most of what I say, please, as I will just write it all, including possibly
    incorrect or irrelevant details. I have looked at the prior versions only as they
    come up in the thread. My feedback will consider the designs in context to each
    other, not as simply standalone letters, but it is based on personal aesthetics,
    not tradition, which others here are sharper with. And I am assuming that it is
    targeting both versatile display use (med-large sizes, med-short passages) and
    decorative use (large sizes, shorter passages).\r\n\r\nRegarding OT Alternate
    glyphs: I don't have Fontographer, nor have I even seen it in a long time, but
    I imagine you can create alternate glyphs, name them and assign them to whatever
    space you like. Does it support Unicode number addresses? If so, you can implement
    alternate sets, substitutions and such through VOLT, a free tool from MS. To make
    things simple for now I would just recommend adding any alternates you think are
    \"essential\" to some blank spots and ignore the functional aspects.\r\n\r\n--\r\nA:Where
    there is no accent, It seems that the top serif could have a curve like the top
    of many other letters. I see it being flattened to fit the accents like it is
    now, coexisting in the same face.\r\n\r\nA w/accents: I love the proportions.\r\n\r\nAccents
    acute/grave: It seems that the bottom curve could look more natural, giving it
    a less constructed look, and more aerodynamics.\r\n\r\nC/G: I wonder why the vertical
    serif doesn't bend a hair right at the top\r\n\r\nD w/bar: The left of the bar
    seems to disappear at smaller sizes.\r\n\r\nE: is this a \"flagship glyph\" I
    love all of it.\r\n\r\nJ: I love the hook's termination.\r\n\r\nL w/bar: this
    comes across as heavier at small sizes.\r\n\r\nM: The serifs are... odd. It feels
    as if it is collapsing in on itself. I think the center of the serif's arc should
    be contained by the stroke, even if it is still slightly weighted inwards. But
    I think it would look fine with shorter top serifs and everything centered. Lots
    of options here.\r\n\r\nN: I might tweak this if it were mine, depending on what,
    if anything, I did to the M. But pretty nice.\r\n\r\nOE: The sidebearings for
    this appear to be tighter than the O's, but I bet they aren't. Probably an artifact
    created by it being darker. Even tho' I think the -E is the same size, it looks
    shorter than on the AE.\r\n\r\nQ: The stroke connecting the inner loop to the
    underbar becomes thinner at small sizes. Possibly fixable by making where it intersects
    the bottom of the outer loop wider by a unit or two. Or just fiddling with hinting.
    Otherwise, fantastic design.\r\n\r\nS: Would a semiserif like the 's' look good,
    or silly? I don't know.\r\n\r\nV/W/Y: The upper-right most serif seems to have
    an oddness like the 'M' I think the 'X' shows a more soothing arrangement. I realize
    the stroke has a different angle, but it is still possibly inspiring.\r\n\r\nThorn:
    The righthand side could be rounder, or the counter could be more like the 'P'.\r\n\r\na:
    love it. It looks so flowing, yet it has that uniformity that makes tpye cool.
    should the top of the bowl be thinner at it's thinest part? I suck @ 'a', so just
    ignore me.\r\n\r\nae: at large sizes, the bottom of the join looks slightly heavier
    than needed. The righthand of the a-'s counter could hook in, to mimic the naked
    'e' contour. \r\n\r\nfi: Brilliant. pleasant, hip, general goodness. What about
    bringing the f's tip's approach in lower, more audaciously. Right now, it is  a
    surprisingly cool look, and fi ligs are show-off glyphs, no? I might try an acute,
    rotated abt. 45 clockwise or so as the merged dot.\r\n\r\nfl: looks good, the
    top is fantastic.\r\n\r\ni/^: I hate dealing with those. Some faces use a skinnier
    accent.\r\n\r\nr: this has come a long ways. very practical, but the width of
    the counter does a great job of avoiding that rn=m effect, as you wanted.\r\n\r\nss
    lig: why does the long s look so much like a long s, but the short s looks quite
    different? Does this contribute? I know I just suggested getting wild with the
    'fi', but in this lig, I feel that the part within the heart (the standard baseline-to-xheight)
    should flow like \"normal\" letters, for those languages where it is exactly that.
    Considering that, I personally tend to customize only the top connection.\r\n\r\nv/w:
    These might look really neat with the same effect as the stroke in the 'y'. The
    sound arrangement of the serifs might be a good model for the 'M'.\r\n\r\ny: There
    is an interesting optical illusion going on here. At very large sizes (several
    inches) the left diagonal appears constant width (I think it actually is). At
    medium and smaller sizes (3/4 inch and under)the stroke appears to taper towards
    the bottom. This may be caused by screen hinting, or has something to do with
    the serifs on 3 corners, but not the outside bottom one. Just something to consider,
    unless it is all in my mind.\r\n\r\nEither way, this is one of my favorite lc's.\r\n\r\nprime:
    where is it?\r\n\r\ndouble prime: Interesting, in a good way.\r\n\r\nDot period/elipsis,
    etc.: This seems to feel heavier than the text. I think it would look funny if
    it was the size of the accents (which are great), but it might look a little more
    cohesive if they were a hair smaller. In the lorem ipsum, they also seem to sit
    a little low on the line, intermitantly. I think that must be a scaling artifact.\r\n\r\ndaggers:
    alternates with mirrored center strokes could be a great feature, in case users
    wanted them to match in either direction.\r\n\r\n&: Very cool. I love the arced
    serif on the right, and the grace of the diagonal stroke.\r\n\r\n@: the very end
    of the hoop seems like it could have a flaring, like the c/e, but that might be
    a dumb idea, too. :)\r\n\r\nNumerals: A third numeral with a ball terminal could
    compliment the 2 and 4.\r\n\r\nSuperiors: The horizontals feel very light, especially
    as the face gets smaller. Not that they should math the regulars, but just a little
    more weight?\r\n\r\nSuperior 3: It looks different from the regular 3, but it
    doesn't feel like there is a purpose to that alteration. Is the regular 3 too
    noisy to condense? \r\n\r\nfractions: the inf. 4 seems to sit differently in 1/4
    and 3/4\r\n\r\nInfinity: The \"two thin stems next to each other\" looks kinda
    forced, and without precedent elsewhere within the face. Additionally, it seems
    to kinda go against the spirit of the symbol, which is a continuum. I like the
    thick/thin/thick idea in general.\r\n\r\nDelta: I love the horizontal that looks
    a lot like the face's serifs.\r\n\r\nmu/micron: I don't care if this is in other
    faces or not. A real keeper. The beauty is wound well into making it more useful
    as a symbol, esp. at smaller sizes. Great job!\r\n\r\nLatin ordinals: Overall,
    nice and legible. You may look at how the bar interacts with numerals, and consider
    making it narrower. I can't guess from looking at the documents.\r\n\r\n%/perthousand:
    the 0's dominate the bar.\r\n\r\nequal or greater / equal/less: Do you have a
    preference for them touching? Does anyone? Is there a correct approach? I happen
    to usually prefer them as discrete shapes (like plus or minus), but I haven't
    researched it.\r\n\r\ncent: has a much heavier vertical bar than '$'. Why? (Keep
    in mind my treatment of both on !Crass Roots, I might just be crazy, and even
    considering my opinion batty on your part.)\r\n\r\nEuro/Sterling/etc: I love the
    center bars on these, they feel good to the eye.\r\n\r\nFlorin: This is the most
    inconsistent glyph, in my opinion. The broadening, serifless shaft seems to just
    make it stick out, and the join with the top arch looks a touch abrupt. The vertical
    proportions however, look good, not too heavy-handed."
  created: '2007-02-21 20:43:23'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Damn, I had a lengthy response to all your points too, and the browser ate
    them. If this were an ordinary form field I could have just hit the "back"button
    and had it all there again, but evidently this is something special here.
  created: '2007-02-21 22:26:20'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: But thank you, Choz, for taking the time to go through all this stuff and
    say something about it. Hopefully you will find many of the points you made addressed
    in the next version.
  created: '2007-02-21 22:29:23'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I was going to reply to each of your points in a single message, but I'll
    break them up to a few at a time.\r\n\r\nFlorin: Is this still a valid currency
    symbol? I thought any country that had used such a thing is now in the Euro zone.
    Anyway, I agree it is the most inconsistent character in the font, but it is one
    of those that is pretty inconsistent in any typeface I've looked at, frequently
    based on the italic f, and more often than not an italic f from a totally unrelated
    font. In an earlier iteration I had it as an integral with a crossbar, but that
    seemed less right (or at least more wrong) than the one I currently have.\r\n\r\n\xA2/$:
    You're right, the vertical bars are different weights. I'll see what I can do
    about that.\r\n\r\n%,\u2030: Again, good point. It is a struggle to get those
    \"o\"s not to dominate without making them too light.\r\n\r\n\u221E: I didn't
    want this to look like just a sideways eight, but it looks like the magnetic field
    diagram doesn't translate well either."
  created: '2007-02-21 22:51:01'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I've learned the hard way, too. Whenever I am about to submit a monster post,
    I do a quick copy-paste into notepad, just in case. I trust the intarweb as far
    as I can throw it.\r\n\r\nIf I want the 0's to look like real inf/sup numbers,
    I try that trick of making them independent of the intended combined symbol. Or,
    I go for something else completely, and draw the percent as it's own item, then
    duplicate the last 0-type-thing for the perthou.\r\n\r\nOn \u221E, I'd say that
    your overall proportions are successfully distinct, and that it would still be
    a far leap to say it would look too \"8\" afterwards. Especially when the '8'
    of the same face is the more classical offset thins touching a thick. There is
    some decorative face that probably has an '8' like your \u221E, but then there
    is probably one where the x looks like your asterisk, too.\r\n\r\nPerhaps a fresh
    single-character thread might do the trick, if you aren't confident in the design.\r\n\r\nI
    appreciate your taking time to consider all I said. I know how annoying it is
    to have to recreate a post, but if you had anything else as meta-feedback, I'm
    curious. If any of it was crazy-talk, I'd like to learn from this as well. Or,
    if there was something I didn't explain well enough, I can revisit it.\r\n\r\nPlease,
    again, don't take anything I've said too seriously, unless perhaps you keep hearing
    it from others as well. Anyway, it was great to focus like that on a face, and
    I sure look forward to seeing .16++!"
  created: '2007-02-21 23:22:01'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "M: That is one that has given me trouble from the start. I have yet anouther
    new design in the next iteration, and corresponding changes in the N, but I still
    feel it isn't quite right.\r\n\r\nSuperior/inferior/fraction numerals: The numbers
    are based on the full size forms of an earlier version, and haven't yet caught
    up with subsequent changes. I do like this older version of the 3. At full size
    it made a pleasant &lt;3 emoticon, but didn't fit in with the rest of the font
    very well. I think it fares well enough at the reduced size, tough, and I may
    keep it. They could all stand a little beefing up in the horizontals, but too
    much will durn them into blobs.\r\n\r\n\u0152: The sidebearings are: \u0152 50
    80, \xC6 70 60, A 70 70, O 40 40, E 80 60. The horizontals are longer on the plain
    E, but I'll pull back on tthe E side of \u0152 to get them lined up. This may
    not always be right to space ligatures the same as their respective components,
    but it's a good thing to point out if their difference is too obvious."
  created: '2007-02-22 00:28:42'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: One last note. I am certain it might have been an encoding error, or a problem
    with working in Fontorapher, but I didn't see a snark. Perhaps it is an issue
    with encoding PDFs in Canvas, or something like that.~
  created: '2007-02-22 01:55:20'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: What is the preferred Unicode position of the snark?
  created: '2007-02-22 02:17:09'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: $E2D2
  created: '2007-02-22 02:21:29'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Oh that snark... ha! There is no Unicode place for it yet is there? Or did
    I miss something?
  created: '2007-02-22 08:04:47'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "You didn't miss a thing. $E2D2 is a spot in the Private Use area. ;)\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-22 14:08:25'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I did at last figure out how to get the y-acute and multiply characters to
    appear in the font. For some reason they won't be saved in the TrueType font file
    when saved with Mac Standard encoding, but they will when encoded as Mac Expert,
    even though they appear in the Mac Standard character set. Weird, huh?\r\n\r\nThe
    Mac Expert set includes positions for small caps and punctuation, OSF, more superior/inferior/fraction
    numbers, and lots of spaces marked .notdef. Most of these positions, even if they
    are defined, don't have Unicode numbers assigned to them. It'll be a pain to put
    everything in place, but I can do it once I find out what those numbers are."
  created: '2007-02-22 18:59:45'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Did you know that Fontographer puts the wrong Unicode numbers on the f ligatures?
    I found that out and fixed them, but now other things are squirrely. Anyway, I
    got it all working in the new PDFs on the first post. I'll come back in a bit
    with the sample image.
  created: '2007-02-23 04:08:44'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: 'Looks interesting, more new treats than I expected! At first glance, I really
    like the slight emphasis on the lefthand curl of the snark''s tilde. And that
    the lig is more than a simple sum of components. The new second serif(?) on the
    l is very fun, and still very readable. I notice the fl and ffl don''t share this,
    but they look consistent, nonetheless. I will give the entire update a longer
    take this weekend. [edit: Sun night]'
  created: '2007-02-23 05:23:17'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Building on your earlier comments, since they didn't change significantly
    from the last version:\r\n\r\npreiod, comma, et. al. punctuation: The base dots
    ride low, dipping 14.5% of their height below the baseline.\r\n\r\nDouble Acute
    (Hungarian umlaut): You mistook this for a double prime. I have not included any
    primes yet. Actually this one changed a lot from 15 to 16."
  created: '2007-02-23 06:22:09'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I made a long reply, but it never landed, and I lost my copy after not noticing
    the failure to post.\r\n\r\nSigh. To summarize myself, The M looks very good now,
    and sets well amongst the other characters and on its own. The N's modifications
    reflect this very well, too. I am not sure which Q you prefer, meaning I feel
    like you are still trying to decide between them. I think the former style suits
    the neo-wood motif. The flare on the @ rocks, bringing it into the package very
    well!\r\n\r\nWhat are your thoughts on your tweaks?"
  created: '2007-02-27 18:18:52'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I kind of forget what all I tweaked in v.16 and whatnot. I came down with
    the flu last week and am only just now recovering\u2014I think I was in a bit
    of a delirium when I posted the last package.\r\nI stole the idea for the mid-stem
    serif on the l from someone else's project on here. There is historic precedent
    for the thing so I hope the one I was inspired by doesn't mind. It actually helps
    to solve a lot of the spacing problems that letter was giving me. I wouldn't put
    that spur in the fl and ffl ligs because that would basically extend the crossbar
    into the l, making a confusing A like shape. I know lots of fonts have that feature,
    but it's not a good one, in my opinion.\r\n\r\nAs I said before, I switched the
    encoding to Macintosh Expert, and now all the glyphs seem to encode properly in
    the TTF file, but now I have twice as many character slots as I had before, and
    half of the new ones are not defined. What am I supposed to do with those? And
    what of the ones that are defined but don't have a unicode value? None of them
    have a keystroke, either.\r\n\r\nAnyhoo, I think I'll revert back to the v.15
    Q and move this new one to an alternates set."
  created: '2007-03-02 07:23:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I have not looked at the font in a while to try to see it fresh eyes. Now
    that I have come back to look again here are my suggestions: \r\n\r\nMove thedot
    on the i up It looks cramped. The i deresis too.\r\nMake the w slightly less wide.
    It's a little ungainly \r\nWheras the r & m are really strong designs, the t seems
    unfinnished. I would start again with it maybe. That r is maybe the best thing
    in the font. It's so robust & confident. You might have to reduce the anle at
    which the arm ends to get better letter fitting later on but its tasty!\r\nThe
    little serif on the g is too light. It doesn't fit. It lacks confidence. \r\n\r\nThis
    would be a good time to start looking at the white shapes between letters and
    see what you are making. The white shapes should be balanced with each other.
    You can solve a portion of this with kerning but you should try to get 50-75%
    there with the basic combinations so you don't make yourself crazy making special
    kern combos for 1000s of combinations. To get good interletter spacing you have
    3 choices- modify the shapes, modify the side bearings, modify the kerning. It's
    tricky.\r\n\r\nThe nice robust body weight of the shapes of the font seem like
    they need slightly beefier serifs to me.  The letters look like tigers with the
    feet of deer. What if they were thicker or if you reduced the curve very slightly?\r\n\r\nI
    think the crossbar on the l creates as many problems as it solves. The l's shape
    ( especially the height at which the tail ends ) is the problem along with the
    sidebearings. In contrast the i is working.\r\n\r\nThe extreme thins vary a little
    too much maybe. I would think about harmonizing them. Look for example at the
    lc o & the uc E or UC L. To me they don't belong together. I think the n gets
    the contrasts just right.\r\n\r\nI hope some of this helps."
  created: '2007-03-02 17:47:40'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I'd hate to be trampled by a tiger with deer feet.\r\nIs it all right to
    make the serifs thicker than the horizontal strokes, or are you suggesting I make
    them longer?"
  created: '2007-03-06 01:41:54'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<Cite> I\u2019d hate to be trampled by a tiger with deer feet. </cite>\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nI
    am suggesting making them more hefty or thicker not longer. But try anything you
    think might work. Anything is okay if it looks right to you. Including leaving
    it as is. \r\n\r\nDoes my comment resonate with you at all? I am just seeing the
    rest of the face as more robust than the serifs - so much so that they don't seem
    to go together to me anymore. \r\n\r\nMaybe take a look at other serifed faces
    as they become heavy like yours - clarendon, Unger's work, Font Font serifs etc.
    You will see a wide range of options used but also a certain relationship maintained.
    It's nature is perceptual & optical not mathematical. "
  created: '2007-03-06 18:09:05'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: So I find I'm in a bt of a bind. Since I changed the encoding, I can'r get
    the font to work in Canvas or CorelDraw, or just about anything without full Unicode
    support. That pretty much leaves me with just TextEdit, which I've been using
    for the last several sets of PDF samples. There might be a way to generate an
    image from that, but I haven't figured it out yet.
  created: '2007-03-12 01:02:46'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "You could use 'Grab' which is in the utilities folder. It can take a screen
    shot. \r\n\r\nOR\r\n\r\nYou could save as a PDF ( built into OSX) out of text
    edit & see if you can read it in Preview or Acrobat as a PDF afterwards.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-12 05:03:35'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: That's exactly what I've done to generate the PDF files from TextEdit (it's
    actually a function of the Print dialog, not Save as... Go figure). I should have
    thought of just using screen capture for the in-thread displays. Now I feel dim.
  created: '2007-03-13 02:31:31'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Agamemnon16-sample2_4830.png]\r\nOK,
    I figured out how to do this. It added a bunch of steps and I get these red dotted
    lines that I can't seem to get rid of even with the spell check turned off. This
    is still version 16 here. I added in most of the characters that I couldn't get
    Canvas to show, but I think I missed a couple."
  created: '2007-03-13 06:43:55'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ag18-09os_3640.png]\r\n\r\nI've been
    away from this for a while, but I'm back at it. Above are a set of old-style monospaced
    numbers I've been working on.\r\nThis isn't the full update. I'll be bring that
    out later this week or maybe next. I also have some small caps but those aren't
    ready to show."
  created: '2007-04-18 00:18:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: It looks like there could be refinements to the weight distribution and the
    heights etc but this looks really fun. I like your swooshy 7!
  created: '2007-04-18 19:01:48'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ag18-feth-fthorn_5673.png]\r\n\r\nHere
    are a couple new ligatures from the expanded set.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-18 23:26:10'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: It's hard to judge them outside of their real context but I like what I see
    so far. You must have been reading the same blog as me! I recognize the idea!
  created: '2007-04-18 23:51:01'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I like the new text figures. They have a broader feel in general, and the
    larger ball terminals compliment them well. The 2's diagonal seems a little too
    forced at the bottom, perhaps.\r\n\r\nYou have such a grasp on ligating the f
    that your new ones are beautiful on the first go. :) Once again, nice work. How
    far do you feel you are from completion?\r\n\r\nWho's blog have you both been
    reading?"
  created: '2007-04-19 15:24:59'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "There was a blog entry referenced in another recent Typophile thread, regarding
    the proper desigh of eth and thorn, and toward the end it suggested creating ligatures
    such as those I made above. I wish I could find it but I can't remember what it
    was.\r\n\r\nedit:\r\nI found it!\r\nhttp://font.is/?p=166\r\n\r\nand the thread
    referring to it:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/33006"
  created: '2007-04-19 20:19:29'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Jason, without having to read this entire thread, are you considering stylistic
    sets? Your typeface has loads of character and potential, but in some spots, for
    my taste anyway, I'd want a more regular option here and there for some settings.
  created: '2007-04-19 21:07:46'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Oh, definitely there will be stylistic sets. I already have two Qs, and I
    may add an even plainer one. Is there anything else in particular that strikes
    you as too fancy for regular use?
  created: '2007-04-19 21:16:54'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: OK, over the last month I've kind of gone crazy with extending the character
    set, possibly neglecting some more basic design features that will probably cost
    me in the long run. I have a whole bunch of ligatures, small caps, old style figures,
    diacritics, alternate forms and all that rot. I should have an image up in a little
    bit, once I figure out how to best showcase the new stuff.
  created: '2007-05-04 21:58:17'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Here it finally is. I skipped a few versions bringing it to this point. Still
    a lot to do, along with some glaringly obvious errors.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ag20-mostchar_6538.png]\r\n\r\nThe
    PDF on top is the same as the above image, though the last line repeated for some
    reason. Small caps are coming soon. I had been working on them in the same font
    file, but that was getting way too cluttered so I copied them off into a new file.\r\n\r\nEnjoy."
  created: '2007-05-05 03:43:12'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Wow. This is polishing up nicely. I think you have made a good case for this
    flavor in type. I really like the lc r, the Delta, and the UC DE&Z.\r\n\r\nI have
    not looked in some time so I think my eye is fresh - here is what I am noticing
    now: \r\n\r\nThe weight of the c seems to light compared to the other glypshs.
    I think the top might be built up a lttle too. When your a zomed in it's not that
    noticable but when the letters are smaller it jumps out at me. The Cap C is also
    less poshed & strong that the Other Glyphs. On the f thorn ligature I might let
    the arc start slightly higher on the left. The join on the ct ligature could be
    a bit weitier as it joins the t. There seems to be a litle toomuch weight on the
    right side of the u. The top left serif on the AE lig might have more weight &
    flourish. The join in the middle of the a is bothering me. What if the join was
    straighter or more narrow? I think either thing would help it read as an a better/faster.
    The diacritics seem too close to me -especially over the d & h. The double story
    g needs much much more work. But I expect you know that. It's a good idea to have
    though! The Ogoneks sem clunky - too much weight in their tops I think. I amnot
    sure about the blob end on the acute/grave. I like it's style but I think they
    should be more narrow & pitched a bit hgher maybe. Have you read Adam T on french
    vs polish for this diacritic? The C in your copyright should be smaller. Why not
    go with a purely circular zero in the old style numbers? That would be cool. What
    abour harmonizing the ball weights in the old style a bit more too? They all look
    cool but they don't play quite well enough together yet. They are all grabbing
    too much limelight from each other because of the over-variation. What if the
    leg of the Cap l was shorter & had more flair & weight? What if the Join on the
    left side of the cap Y tapered slightly as it joined the base? The top right leg's
    Join on the Cap X might look better is it was slightly lower. Maybe that Breve
    should bend more/go higher. The Paragraph Mark seems a bit too heavy to me. The
    Q options will be a big selling point for this face. I think if the tails on the
    1st two were heavier as they ended it would make the read as Qs more effectively.
    How about an Alt lc k.\r\n\r\nI hope these ideas are useful to you. You have put
    in a ton of effort and I think it might pay off. I wold take Tiff's idea seriously
    too. \r\n\r\nYou know... The x height you have now is great for smaller text but
    the intensity of style is more appropriate for larger sizes Headlines and Display.
    Do you see what I mean? In a way I could imagine taking the design in 2 directions
    now. One for text that would be slightly softer in it's character and made for
    smaller sizes like you already have but maybe with some additional optical adjustments
    - Then you could have another one for Display & headlines that would keep it's
    current character but be for larger sizes and so have longer ascenders and decenders
    and maybe some of the joins would become less bulky - stuff like that. Have you
    sen font families that do that kind of thing? If not. I can point you at some.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-05 19:42:09'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I know what you mean about the weight being a little uncomfortable with the
    height. At text sixes I see it as kind of a medium or demi-bold weight, and a
    lighter version will be needed for the bulk of text use, but a somewhat reduced
    lc at this weight would be good for display.\r\n\r\nAs for the Polish accents
    and ogoneks, you mean the instructions here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.twardoch.com/download/polishhowto/intro.html\r\n\r\nright?
    I thought I had followed the instructions, but I see what you mean about the ogoneks
    being a bit chunky. Something gave me the impression they should be that way,
    but it didn't look right to me either. I haven't set up the Polish kreska accented
    letters yet, but I have perpared a mark for them (between the cedilla and the
    ring). t- and d-caron need the abbreviated apostrophe instead of the regular caron/h\xE1\u010Dek."
  created: '2007-05-06 03:06:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "BTW I was reminded about my display vs Text comments when I looked at this
    today. Have look - maybe it will be helpful.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dutchtypelibrary.nl/PDF/M504/DTLFleischmann_M504.pdf\r\n\r\n(
    page 9 to start ) "
  created: '2007-05-19 19:55:31'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "A PDF of version 21 is up now at the bottom of the top post. \r\nThis is
    what comes out of the Print to PDF function of FontForge.\r\n\r\nI've gone a bit
    crazy with some of the features, especially the automated accented glyph assembly,
    so there may be more remaining work to do than there was before I did all of that.
    \r\n\r\nPerhaps I should pare it down for initial release?\r\n\r\n\r\nMight anyone
    have suggestions on making an italic to complement this?"
  created: '2007-07-06 02:29:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: It's hard to compare with the glyphs sitting off on their own little spaces...
  created: '2007-07-07 08:13:43'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: True, I output this one in a bit of a rush. I'll try to put together something
    resembling the earlier samples for better comparison.
  created: '2007-07-09 01:26:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Cool.
  created: '2007-07-09 07:23:44'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "carons on Z and z are off. The same goes for S and s. I live in the language
    area that uses \u010C\u010D\u0160\u0161\u017D\u017E. And this kind of caron positioning
    is quite unnatural to me. And of course I'm missing the Ccaron and ccaron. :)"
  created: '2007-07-19 11:31:55'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I'll get those Ccarons in there and correct the others. Most of the accented
    characters were made using the automated assembly feature (element> build> accented
    glyph) and still need some adjustment to be centered properly.
  created: '2007-07-19 18:56:39'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "OK, there are a couple new sample PDFs loaded to the bottom of the list again.
    \ I am getting the impression I totally have to rework the spacing and kerning,
    but FontForge's metrics window is infruriatingly slow, at least compared to Fontographer's,
    and you can't load in a list of kerning words as far as I can tell. Anyway, there
    are a plethora of new characters now. I've nearly filled out the Latin B area,
    and some of the IPA and Greek are getting filled in since some of the Latin B
    lowercase or derivors are in those areas, not that it matters a whole lot, or
    maybe it does. \r\n\r\n\r\nI'm not sure where I'm going with this anymore. I feel
    like I've lost focus, yet I'm driven to keep working on it."
  created: '2007-07-22 22:04:52'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "There are two ways you can go, I think. Either treat it as a product, and
    you need to make it happen, or as not one, and you don't <em>have to</em>.\r\n\r\nIf
    this is a product you want to sell, each additional part demands a multiplication
    of refinement. In software-land, feature sets get locked well before a product's
    ships. Even really great ideas get shelved for later versions because otherwise,
    the first version never gets out the door. Cut out the most belaboring aspects,
    add what is needed to stay competitive, and keep track of your hours. :)\r\n\r\nIf
    it is a labor of love, your magnum opus, and all about the journey...\r\nTake
    time, make more notes, get feedback and keep adding things. Or go for a walk if
    it isn't too hot. Have a life. Let things stew a bit in your brain and see what,
    if any, is the purpose. Get back to it when your vision takes you there. But don't
    rush or over-analyze it until you are sick of the project.\r\n\r\nIt's a good
    face, and everyone here \"can't wait\" to see it released. But we actually can
    wait. So figure out how far this needs to go for you, and go. Then stop. :)"
  created: '2007-07-24 00:38:44'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Sorry to say that but I think that both your \"S\" and \"s\" are a bit off
    leaning right. Or at least the curves aren't as good as they could be. I'd try
    to correct that.\r\n\r\nOtherwise I agree with Choz. He's right. If you feel it's
    sufficiently usable, release it. If you think some major things are still missing,
    then finish them and release later. But be a good judge about this.\r\n\r\nI'm
    in software development and I know how can details distract you from releasing
    an already usable and fine enough product."
  created: '2007-07-25 16:21:55'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Choz makes some really good points.\r\n\r\nMy guess is that when you are
    making the Latin B etc you are most likely working in an abstract way in the sense
    that you are taking an (unfamiliar?) shape and deciding how to interpret it. It's
    great - but fairly abstract.\r\n\r\nIf you want to evaluate what you are up to
    and gain focus - I suggest that you apply your type to a design project. Even
    a faux one - but ideally a real one. That will help you notice what is & isn't
    working - and ground the work in a 'reality'. \r\n\r\nWhat did you make of my
    display vs text shapes comment? Relevant? Irrelevant? Why?"
  created: '2007-07-25 16:49:03'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "OK, maybe moving this into FontForge wasn't the best idea. It's a fine enough
    program for designing, but might be a nigh bid more powerful thatn I can handle
    in metrics handling.\r\nIn Fontographer, you could load in a text file of kerning
    words and shuttle down the list while making adjustments in the metrics window.\r\nI
    cannot figure out how to do the same thing in FontForge, if it is possible at
    all. It appears that one has to type in whatever letters one wants to see in the
    metrics window. So inconvenient.\r\n\r\n\r\nBut anyway, while I've had trouble
    working on the spacing, I haven't been idle. I've expanded the character set to
    include support for Vietnamese, lots of obscure languages, as well as Greek and
    Cyrilic. Those last two are mostly just an experiment, since I have no idea how
    those are really supposed to be. but I'll have pics pf them up soon so you can
    tell me what you think of them."
  created: '2007-11-03 02:24:51'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I have expanded the character set into a very large chunk of the Latin Unicode
    space (including coverage for Vietnamese and a buttload of other stuff don't know),
    as well as limited inclusion of Greek, Cyrillic, and Cherokee. Actually the Cherokee
    is pretty complete but I have no idea whether or not it would be legible to native
    readers (same with the others too). I'd be happy if these scripts just don't look
    too stupid or inappropriate. I'm sure to get flamed for deriving too much from
    the Latin for these other scripts, but hey, I'm learning here! \r\n\r\nThere are
    some bugs involving missing or incorrectly ordered glyphs in the new output files
    (pr-AgamemnonTwentySeven-dis1.pdf and pr-AgamemnonTwentySeven-ffd1.pdf, attached
    in the first post), but those are FontForge and/or Acrobat issues and I've been
    talking to George Williams to get those resolved."
  created: '2007-11-23 21:02:34'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Here are some pictures.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/screenshot_0244_4855.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/screenshot_0245_4898.png]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-26 00:40:08'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Some of the foreign-language characters aren't looking good.\r\nRussian:\r\nZhe
    should definitely point outward. zhe could probably use mirror, not rotational,
    symmetry, much as it makes the chirality seem wrong.\r\nLeft leg of El/el should
    be light.\r\nSha and Shcha are too narrow.\r\nYa should probably not have a light
    left leg.\r\nbe should have that flourish on top. This one looks very incomplete.\r\nef,
    strangely, should probably be rotationally symmetric. (Russian is full of paradoxes,
    isn't it?)\r\nI'm not a Russian, but I think Russians would agree with me on this:
    Never ever make ascending myagkij, tvyordij, and yery.\r\n\r\nGreek:\r\nLambda
    is upside-down.\r\nXi should have weight in it somewhere. Most people make the
    strokes thick to solve that.\r\nPi doesn't need serifs on its serifs on top.\r\nAlmost
    all the lowercase forms look very amorphous. Try drawing a \"normal\" text face
    in Greek, then use that study to make the Greek here less erratic. These letterforms
    are too all-over-the-place to read with anything like smoothness.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-26 02:42:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: There may be things going wrong with some of the unfamiliar characters but
    the overall flavor of the thing still seems really nice to me.
  created: '2007-11-26 05:59:49'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I already knew about the Lambda. That one switched around spontaneously somehow
    while I was doing the Cherokee stuff. Thanks for pointing out the other mistakes.
    I knew there would be many. I'm working on fixing what I can right now.
  created: '2007-11-26 07:03:49'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: 'I forgot: that sharp corner on the cruved part of the De/de is really distracting.'
  created: '2007-11-26 20:59:26'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Yup, I got the De, and spotted how that shape relates to the El in most instances
    in other fonts, so those are corrected. I finally saw what you were talking about
    with the Pi too. I'd always thought of it as a T with two legs (hence the seriffed
    serifs) but it's really more like an H with a raised crossbar.
  created: '2007-12-05 23:15:44'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: 'Precisely. Also, I hate to rag on your Greek more, but there''s a basic misunderstanding
    of, I believe, the nu here. The alphabet is out of order, so I can''t be sure,
    but if the glyph that''s after eta and before xi is meant to be a nu, it''s wrong.
    A nu is v-shaped, not y-shaped. '
  created: '2007-12-06 20:38:31'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I see what you're saying, but I was trying to distinguish the nu from gamma,
    which, to my non-Greek reading eyes, also looks like a v, and upsilon, which seems
    to be in-between a v and u shape. What exactly are the distinguishing factors
    between \u03B3, \u03BD, and \u03C5? \r\n\r\nI may have figured it out just by
    typing that, but what's your take on it?"
  created: '2007-12-06 21:46:03'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "gamma has a straight stem descending below the baseline, which neither upsilon
    nor nu have. upsilon is curved, and nu has a corner at the bottom, like U compared
    to V. \r\n\r\nI've drawn up a conjectural evolution of the gamma and nu. I think
    the nu evolved along a similar path to the mu, so I showed the mu for comparison,
    because it's more straightforward. I know I've seen the second form for the nu,
    in <a href=http://www.greekfontsociety.org/pages/en_typefaces16th.html>GFS Complutum</a>,
    which is from the 16th century. These evolutions are my educated guesses, not
    confirmed historical stuff, so don't quote me too exhaustively. I don't know how
    we get from the Upsilon form to the upsilon form, but I'd guess it was quite a
    bit of lazy handwriting among scribes. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/allpurposetemp_3945.PNG]\r\nBow
    to my mad MS Paint skillz."
  created: '2007-12-07 00:32:45'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Has it really been over six weeks since I last posted an update? I did make
    all those corrections, I really did. I think I even made the Greek lower case
    almost usable, though it does still need work.\r\n\r\nBut before I post the next
    sample set, should I go and remove some of the old PDF samples? I've put a lot
    of them up here over time and it might be overwhelming people new to viewing this
    project. Which ones do you think show changes so subtle that they could be safely
    excluded from the history? Should just I start a new thread to give you critics
    a fresh start?"
  created: '2008-01-18 23:24:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I would start a new thread and link back to the old one if this one is starting
    to feel unwieldy.  \r\n\r\nIt's good to be able to follow process if you want
    to.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2008-01-19 16:12:56'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: You can also start adding the date or month to the PDF filenames. That way
    people know what the newest samples are.
  created: '2008-01-19 17:36:21'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: The existing PDFs are all version numbered. I thought that would be sufficient.
  created: '2008-01-19 18:52:17'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "OK, folks. We can pick this up again over here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/41105\r\nI
    started a fresh new thread for the thing with some descriptive text. I hope it
    isn't too windy."
  created: '2008-01-20 01:43:02'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I've gone goofy with all these new currency symbols cropping up these past
    few years. Now it looks like I'll have to come up with one for the Icelandic kronur
    soon. Anyway, here's what I have so far:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot
    from 2012-09-20 16:43:48_4400.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot
    from 2012-09-20 16:45:23_6472.png]"
  created: '2012-09-21 00:49:47'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Aren't the \u20AC's bars a bit too far apart?\r\nBy the way, t's a pity that
    such nice glyphs like your spesmilo sign would be rarely (if ever) used."
  created: '2012-09-21 09:32:29'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I see it as not so much being that the euro's bars are too far apart, but
    some of the other horizontal double bars are, out of necessity, too close together.\r\nAnd,
    though it's a rarely used glyph, I know a few Esperantists who might appreciate
    having the spesmilo."
  created: '2012-09-21 20:05:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "The Sm thing you show, I had to warn a designer recently away from a feature
    that was a different scale and color than the rest of the font. It had been a
    while since I had to do that, but it used to be a common occurrence. Scaleable
    type just can't deal with that kind of thing very well. This hardly seems like
    a face so shy one couldn't swell the bottom of the S to University Roman proportions
    to widen and weighten the m?\r\n\r\nAlso, the bars on the d thing, seem rather
    harsh.\r\n\r\nI'm really impressed with the breadth of progress on this face,
    what a lot of good work."
  created: '2012-11-28 13:14:24'
date: '2006-10-17 00:16:17'
files:
- filename: Agamemnon-outl.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Agamemnon-outl.pdf
- filename: Agamemnon2-sample1.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Agamemnon2-sample1.pdf
- filename: agamemnon4-sample1.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/agamemnon4-sample1.pdf
- filename: agamemnon6-sample1.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/agamemnon6-sample1.pdf
- filename: agamemnon7-sample1.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/agamemnon7-sample1.pdf
- filename: agamemnon8-sample1.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/agamemnon8-sample1.pdf
- filename: agamemnon9-sample1.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/agamemnon9-sample1.pdf
- filename: agamemnon10-sample1.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/agamemnon10-sample1.pdf
- filename: Agamemnon10-layout test-c.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Agamemnon10-layout test-c.pdf
- filename: Agamemnon10-pangrams.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Agamemnon10-pangrams.pdf
- filename: agamemnon11-sample1.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/agamemnon11-sample1.pdf
- filename: Agamemnon11-pangrams.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Agamemnon11-pangrams.pdf
- filename: agamemnon12-allcharacters-2.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/agamemnon12-allcharacters-2.pdf
- filename: agamemnon12-pangrams2.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/agamemnon12-pangrams2.pdf
- filename: agamemnon13-allcharacters.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/agamemnon13-allcharacters.pdf
- filename: agamemnon13-pangrams.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/agamemnon13-pangrams.pdf
- filename: agamemnon13-randomtext.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/agamemnon13-randomtext.pdf
- filename: agamemnon14-allcharacters.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/agamemnon14-allcharacters.pdf
- filename: agamemnon14-pangrams.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/agamemnon14-pangrams.pdf
- filename: agamemnon14-randomtext.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/agamemnon14-randomtext.pdf
- filename: agamemnon15-pangrams.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/agamemnon15-pangrams.pdf
- filename: agamemnon15-allcharacters.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/agamemnon15-allcharacters.pdf
- filename: agamemnon15-randomtext.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/agamemnon15-randomtext.pdf
- filename: agamemnon16-allcharacters.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/agamemnon16-allcharacters.pdf
- filename: agamemnon16-pangrams.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/agamemnon16-pangrams.pdf
- filename: agamemnon16-randomtext.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/agamemnon16-randomtext.pdf
- filename: agamemnon20-newer.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/agamemnon20-newer.pdf
- filename: pr-AgamemnonTwentyOne.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/pr-AgamemnonTwentyOne.pdf
- filename: pr-AgamemnonTwentytwo-chrlst.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/pr-AgamemnonTwentytwo-chrlst.pdf
- filename: pr-AgamemnonTwentytwo-12pt2.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/pr-AgamemnonTwentytwo-12pt2.pdf
- filename: pr-AgamemnonTwentySeven-ffd1.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/pr-AgamemnonTwentySeven-ffd1.pdf
- filename: pr-AgamemnonTwentySeven-dis1.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/pr-AgamemnonTwentySeven-dis1.pdf
node_type: forum
title: Agamemnon 27! Now with Greek, Cyrillic, and Cherokee

---
