---
author:
  name: Jan Sandvik
  picture: 110080
body: "I couldn't find a thread on the subject so here it goes...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eu50_6626.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://www.logo-competition.eu/69.0.html\r\n\r\nI'm
  sure you have got some strong opinions on this... :)"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "The designer says it all... \r\n\r\n\u201CI almost not believe that I was
    able to convince the jury with my creation and can hardly imagine that it will
    appear all over Europe\u201D\r\n\r\nI don't think anyone can sum it up better
    than that. ;-) "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Vince Navarro
      picture: 111917
    body: Until this day, I have always regarded European design as superior to my
      lowly American rubbish. Today, I feel I can be just as horrible designer as
      anyone. I aspire to obtain a piece as ugly as the one above.
    created: '2006-10-20 14:01:59'
  created: '2006-10-17 15:31:56'
- author:
    name: seventy7
    picture: 111185
  body: "Clich\xE9 and awful. And I personally dislike the use of OSF here."
  created: '2006-10-17 15:36:27'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Gawd that's hideous! I don't know where to begin....
  created: '2006-10-17 15:41:32'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Another reason to see me as a German and not as a member of Europe.\r\nBut
    maybe other unions might have something to laugh about, if there members see this
    logo.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de\"target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Preu\xDFisches
    Bleisatz-Magazin</a>\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-17 15:44:19'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I really like it.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-10-17 16:05:55'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/supalol_5273.gif]'
  created: '2006-10-17 16:20:12'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "@ Paul\r\n\r\nCorrect. Its like \"Love & Peace\" out of the 70ies.\r\nIf
    the designer had a good dope?\r\n\r\nBut, who cares. May be he's a very nice guy.\r\n\r\nPreu\xDFe\r\n\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de\"target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Preu\xDFisches
    Bleisatz-Magazin</a>\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-17 16:24:23'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Well, I've seen worse.  ;-)\r\n\r\nI think what bothers me about this is
    the \"r\" -- if it were more in keeping with the size of the other letters, the
    balance would be better.  As it is now, you get the feeling the drugs were wearing
    off and it was late at night.\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-10-17 16:37:05'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Reminds me of a ransom note, some might say that's fitting for the EU ;-)
  created: '2006-10-17 16:38:28'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "The T touching the O, the spurious use of accents (how do you pronounce this
    anyway, togethair?), the weak outline on the t, the puny R, the size, font and
    kerning on the bottom line (you could drive a truck btw the N and the C)...\r\n\r\nThe
    concept is nice, but it looks thrown together in about 10 mins, on bad drugs."
  created: '2006-10-17 16:41:46'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "An \"\xD6\" is in english is pronounced like in \"turtle\".\r\nSo the pronounciation
    of \"T\xD6GETHER\" does not make any sense.\r\n\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de\"target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Preu\xDFisches
    Bleisatz-Magazin</a>\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-17 16:47:12'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "That beat out these two entries.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2_50x70hoch_6367.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/4_50x70hoch_3719.jpg]"
  created: '2006-10-17 16:51:19'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: The top one is sure useless for people who are colour-blind....
  created: '2006-10-17 16:53:21'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Yeeeehh.. \r\nThe skandinavian rider invadors unfriendly overtake of EU.\r\nHe,heee..
    \r\nHow nice. So this time we (the germans) are not the ones ;-)\r\nWe do not
    have these accents.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de\"target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Preu\xDFisches
    Bleisatz-Magazin</a>\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-17 16:54:26'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Which colours??\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de\"target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Preu\xDFisches
    Bleisatz-Magazin</a>\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-17 16:55:12'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Dang, the others are pretty awful too. Maybe they should have had an american
    design it... lol
  created: '2006-10-17 16:59:39'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: From the Top Ten, the Spanish entry, with the big non-brush stroke Zen-like
    ring... I could see design/brand firms actually coming up with that... and selling
    it for millions.
  created: '2006-10-17 16:59:44'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: 'Blue/green and red/orange are the two most common combinations that don''t
    work for folks who have colour discrimination issues.  '
  created: '2006-10-17 17:08:26'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: Maybe a color blind Europe might not be such a bad thing... :-P
  created: '2006-10-17 17:21:04'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "For a monolithic entity like the EU to pick this is cool. I know it's not
    typographically sacrosanct, but who cares? (Oops!) It's fun and that is something
    in short supply when it comes to governing bodies. And life in general come to
    think of it\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-10-17 17:50:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Given the point it makes the word together might work without the \xAE, but
    only if the designer had bothered kerning it to take out all those hideous gaps
    and fixed that awful tension point between t and o. \r\n\r\nAt least it's in English.
    That'll keep it from seeing too much use in all the anti-anglophonic nations."
  created: '2006-10-17 18:37:08'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">For a monolithic entity like the EU to pick this is cool.\r\n\r\nSomewhat
    like GW's people posting his iPod play-list?  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-17 19:12:49'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "If he had David Allan Coe on it\u2026 :)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-10-17 20:10:48'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Perhaps the jury members were under the of 4 years old? And the competition
    was open to pre-schoolers only - and sponsored by Life Savers?\r\n\r\n\r\nHiro"
  created: '2006-10-17 20:56:35'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "I can just imagine the specifications for the contest:\r\n\r\n\"Must portray
    a long history of tradition while being relevant to the present and future. Must
    incorporate references to every culture in Europe while representing a single
    unified vision. Must include at least one letter in a typeface by David Rakowski.\"\r\n\r\nOkay,
    maybe that last one wasn't a real spec, but I would bet that something like the
    other two were. The judges probably each had an idea of what they wanted the logo
    to look like, and this conflicted with everyone else's idea. I've seen this kind
    of thing happen before.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2006-10-17 21:19:46'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Actually it looks like they asked each country to contribute one letter and
    then just strung them together willy nilly.
  created: '2006-10-17 21:20:04'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Ahem...forgot what happened last time we decided to criticise the cover of
    CA? Remember the author intercepting the conversation and the crisis that followed?
    \r\nAnyway...I'll take the risk, I didn't like it either but, like Linda, I've
    seen worse.\r\n\r\nThe mark that represents the government of Brazil also has
    this childish feel...Paul,you might like this too...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo_brasil_5399.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    personally don't like it very much, the accents bother me a bit buy hey, we don't
    know what the brief was, so why chastize the designer, we have all done stuff
    we are not particularly proud of at some point. No?\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>At least
    it\u2019s in English. That\u2019ll keep it from seeing too much use in all the
    anti-anglophonic nations.</cite>\r\nAnti-anglophonic nation??? Such as....?\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-17 22:48:34'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I don't like this as much but it's kind of fun.\r\n\r\n> Perhaps the jury
    members were under the of 4 years old? And the competition was open to pre-schoolers
    only - and sponsored by Life Savers?\r\n\r\nOf course you're right Hiroshige -
    naivet\xE9 is really, really stupid!! :)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-10-17 23:03:41'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "So the idea of portraying a nation in a fun, childish way, is ok?\r\nOr would
    that be better to portray it in a corporate way?\r\nWhich way is the best to visually
    represent a country? Are some countries more \"fun\" than others? Are some countries
    more serious than others? From which point of view? The EU is not really a country,
    is it? It's just a set of agreements and laws so what's the point in giving it
    a \"fun\" look? "
  created: '2006-10-17 23:16:59'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Ahem\u2026forgot what happened last time we decided to criticise the cover
    of CA? Remember the author intercepting the conversation and the crisis that followed?\r\n\r\nI've
    said it before, but I think if the designer wants to step up to defend their work
    then we should welcome that, hope everyone posts comments with that in mind. As
    GW said \"Bring it on!\" - the CA tread was different it degenerated into politics
    and Rolex discussion. \r\n\r\nA better example would be the Typographic Heresy
    Book thread where the designer was a good sport and came onboard to set the record
    straight.  \r\n"
  created: '2006-10-17 23:18:32'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Lol, I forgot all about the rolex!!!!\r\nOf course I was kidding (btw: Gerad
    Huerta's intervention about his AC/DC was brilliant too)\r\nThe CA discussion
    degenerated into politics and I think this one has got lot of potential for this
    too...but I think the CA one also degenerated because some comments where slightly
    ...catty towards the designer (my comments included of course) which is why I
    think the best way to approach this kind of critique is always by considering
    the reasons behind a specific logo and see it in relation to what it was trying
    to achieve and the brief."
  created: '2006-10-17 23:25:17'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Of course I was kidding \r\n\r\nCool. \r\n\r\n>some comments where slightly
    \u2026catty towards the designer \r\n\r\nI think that's the key - don't say anything
    you wouldn't say to them on the phone - after disabling caller ID, and disguising
    your voice with a device purchased from Radio Shack of course... \"where is the
    Rebel Base?\" ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-17 23:29:15'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I don't think the objections (at least mine) come from the fun or 'childish'
    look - to me it's a nice idea but not executed well enough. I think it's great
    that they held an open competition for this.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure the designer
    needs to defend it - I think we GET it - and it's better than most of the finalists."
  created: '2006-10-17 23:45:03'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: the idea isn't so bad, but the execution particularly good.
  created: '2006-10-18 00:45:49'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: ">but not executed well enough\r\n\r\nI like that.\r\n\r\nI will digress for
    a moment:\r\n\r\nA long while back I posted a montage of signage in my neighborhood
    - there is absolutely no coherent look and quite frankly a lot of them are really
    poor designs\u2026\r\n\r\nbut\r\n\r\nWhen many people started chiming in how signage
    needs to be so much better executed and typographically sophisticated, I tried
    to imagine what that would look like and I didn't like what I saw. I just don't
    want to live in a world where everything is kerned and spaced and immaculately
    executed. That notion really bores me.\r\n\r\nNow may I have a little cheese with
    my whine? :)\r\n\r\npeace\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-18 00:48:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I just don\u2019t want to live in a world where everything is kerned and
    spaced and immaculately executed.\r\n\r\nIf you ever get offered a job at Apple,
    turn them down ;-)"
  created: '2006-10-18 01:22:23'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I don't think I have to worry about that too much\u2026 :)\r\n\r\nI do have
    a master plan to try and stem the tide of what I see as massive sandpapering:\r\nmore
    natural media with all it's inequities. That and just believing in myself, taking
    my own photos, etc\u2026\r\n\r\nA dillettante with a design brief? To a certain
    degree\u2026\r\n\r\nI'm having fun.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-10-18 02:49:26'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: Maybe it's just sooo bad it's brilliant?
  created: '2006-10-18 03:48:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Anti-anglophonic nation??? Such as\u2026.?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe French
    still weren't happy about anyone else expecting them to use or expect them to
    speak English the last time I was there. Hell, I think they were one of three
    countries that refused to announce their Eurovision votes in English. Somehow
    I doubt that they'll be especially happy that the EU is using English in a celebratory
    logo. \r\n\r\n<cite>I just don\u2019t want to live in a world where everything
    is kerned and spaced and immaculately executed.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't either,
    but for a contest with a 6,000 Euro payout, I'd make the effort to clean things
    up a little. "
  created: '2006-10-18 04:15:14'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "> but for a contest with a 6,000 Euro payout, I\u2019d make the effort to
    clean things up a little.\r\n\r\nThen you wouldn't have won. It's pretty obvious\u2026
    :)\r\n\r\nI don't like really analyzing graphics anymore, I try to just let them
    effect me, and this felt like fun. It wasn't taken too seriously and right now
    I can really appreciate that.\r\n\r\nActually this thread has cemented a direction
    I was toying with and now feel really committed to.\r\n\r\nThanks. Cool\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-10-18 05:52:29'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: The logo looks frivolous. Its as if it was a design for a childs toy. The
    Union should be treated as a serious subject, even in celebration. They should
    remind themselves why they needed the EU and why its more important in this current
    world. I would have liked to see something that stressed unity rather than individuallity.
  created: '2006-10-18 13:09:21'
- author:
    name: fallenartist
    picture: 111868
  body: "Together but still individual. I think it's the best idea of all the finalists
    and I think the \"fun\" appearance is OK - it make this Union living :) The execution...
    could be better.\r\n\r\n_______\r\nAL\r\n<a href=http://www.lenart.pl>lenart.pl</a>"
  created: '2006-10-18 14:24:58'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<code>So the idea of portraying a nation in a fun, childish way, is ok?</code>\r\n\r\nI
    don't know about fun, but childish certainly fits the bill for Brazil. The vast
    majority of the population can be manipulated just like little children. And the
    little children are about to re-elect big daddy Lula so the party can rage on
    for another four years.\r\n\r\nMaybe both the EU and the Brazilian logo are private
    jokes for the people who commissioned them."
  created: '2006-10-19 22:18:07'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "oh come on! what a waste of time and money.\r\n\r\nthe top ten ... http://www.logo-competition.eu/65.0.html\r\n\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com/motion.htm\">Graphic Design, Melbourne</a>\r\n----------\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.littlemischief.com\">Little Mischief</a>"
  created: '2006-10-19 23:41:35'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite> The vast majority of the population can be manipulated just like little
    children. And the little children are about to re-elect big daddy Lula so the
    party can rage on for another four years </cite>\r\nWow. I agree with you again
    (I agreed also with the issue of visual pollution etc..on the other thread btw)
    but since I am not Brazilian I feel bad about dissing the country I am living
    in...\r\nIf you had said something similar about the US (and I think Bush certainly
    deserves the same treatment you gave Lula) you would have immediately people at
    your throat calling you anti-american and blah blah blah...if you know what I
    mean. \r\nAnyway, talk about waste of money...you probably know the marca brasil.
    Also tons of money ( and I mean a ridiculous amount of money considering the much
    more urgent issues) involved in a survey to find out how people see Brazil...the
    author of marca brasil told me the survey involved asking half the planet what
    do they think when you say Brazil. Then they picked only the positive things,
    right? Cheerful, sunny etc etc. so I imagine they had to descard all references
    on violence, pollution. poverty etc since it would not have any use for the logo
    anyway. Do you follow me? So why bother asking if then you take only what you
    want to hear. Now that is a bloody waste of money if I have ever seen one.\r\n\r\nThe
    marca Brazil for those who don't know, it's used to identify products made in
    Brazil for export. I am not criticising the thing in itself just the waste of
    public money for the survey. Just give the designer a brief for fcks' sake and
    take it from there!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 01:52:25'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Well, it was obviously only for young folks, which explains some of the,
    um, design decisions.  \r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-10-20 01:53:36'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/marca_brasil_peq_4213.jpg]\r\n\r\nhere's
    the marca brasil"
  created: '2006-10-20 01:55:14'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Have you read their bio? In my opinion, such competition deserved a well
    established branding shop.\r\n\r\nWould I want to do it (if I was a designer)?
    Yes, but not until I have enough real world experience.\r\n\r\nAnd let's not talk
    about the \"it's so bad, it's good\" aesthetics, please. As we can see from this
    <A HREF=\"http://www.pingmag.jp/2006/09/27/handmade-balinese-typography/\">example</A>,
    it's all about the intention of the designer."
  created: '2006-10-20 04:03:22'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: Joking anyway. that's funny, because there is no type there, it's all LETTERING!
    ha. pedestrian. ALTHOUGH the exit sign is awesome.
  created: '2006-10-20 04:40:34'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: Blobjects are soooo 90's...
  created: '2006-10-20 04:41:30'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "Sorry, but i didnt liked the one which got finalized.\r\nAm surprised how
    that can beat this one. It looks more \r\nmeaning full and well composed.\r\n>[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2_50x70hoch_6367_4587.jpg]\r\n.\r\nEven
    this one is better than the final\r\n>[img:sites/default/files/old-images/4_50x70hoch_3719_4074.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nSorry..\r\nIt
    was not to hurt anyone, was just a thought. \r\nDon't mind plz.\r\n>>satya"
  created: '2006-10-20 16:28:11'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "I saw all the entries of this\"UIA2005 Istanbul\" logo desgin competition
    held in year 2005. There were few identities very similar to what im seeing here...but
    the identity which got finalized is very nice.\r\n\r\nhere is the identity.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo1
    copy_3488.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nand here is the link to the website.\r\nhttp://www.uia2005istanbul.org/uia2005istanbul.org_en/www.uia2005istanbul.org/enginea175.html?ID=99"
  created: '2006-10-20 16:53:27'
- author:
    name: fallenartist
    picture: 111868
  body: "OK. Third place - nice design but boring. Second place - nice design but
    boring. First place - not very nice design but (IMHO) brilliant idea. Who should
    be the winner? Do you think the jury could choose really sh*t logo?\r\n\r\n_______\r\nAL\r\n<a
    href=http://www.lenart.pl>lenart.pl</a>"
  created: '2006-10-20 17:33:17'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Have a look at the latest post on http://www.designobserver.com for another
    perspective.  \r\n\r\nAn interesting website, if you like this sort of thing....\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-10-28 04:15:40'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: hey thanks for the link man..really good one.
  created: '2006-10-28 04:22:43'
- author:
    name: alexbucur
  body: The wining logo reminds me of this:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logoed_5240.gif]
  created: '2006-10-31 15:07:26'
date: '2006-10-17 15:21:46'
title: European Union 50 years logo

---
