---
author:
  name: Thord
body: "Dear typophiles, I\u2019m currently writing a university essay on the connection
  between [[blackletter]] and violent and extreme subcultures. I know that there have
  been some discussions about the connection to Nazism, and the \u201CThe Bormann
  Decree\u201D of 1941. \r\nMy interest is in its general use as a style associated
  with danger and violence. I want to understand why it has become popular with other
  subcultures. I know for instance that it is popular among gang members in Los Angeles.
  (Someone told me that it is fact banned at LA-schools, is that true?)\r\n\r\nOn
  the other hand is the said connection to neo Nazism. Two subcultures that are very
  different, maybe even oppositions, but still equally violent. \r\n\r\nI am considering
  there to be three ways of understanding this: \r\n1) An historic explanation, with
  its connections to the third reich and \u201Cthe dark ages\u201D.\r\n2) An aesthetical
  explanation, in relation to the sharp edges and so on. \r\n3) And finally a \u201Cfunctional\u201D
  explanation, if you can call it that. Here I\u2019m thinking of the legibility of
  these typefaces, which make them suitable for secret societies.\r\n\r\nPart of my
  interest in this theme is to maybe be able to say something more general about what
  makes up and comunicates the \u201Cmeaning\u201D of a typeface. And how big a part
  of it is its historical connotations. A huge field of research of course. \r\n\r\nAs
  often with social sciences I suspect the explanation to be a combination of the
  three, but I would very much like to get your opinion on the matter. Are there any
  aspects of this that I\u2019m missing? I am still quite early in the process, so
  any suggestions would be of great value. Maybe any of you know of any similar research
  that could be of interest?\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "http://www.eyemagazine.com/feature.php?id=98&fid=485\r\n\r\nhttp://tinyurl.com/yafsph
    (book)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.svettisku.cz/buxus/generate_page.php?page_id=1014\r\n\r\nhttp://www.moorstation.org/typoasis/blackletter/index.htm\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/20252"
  created: '2006-10-19 12:54:56'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Maybe that some people today associate blackletters with Nazism and violance.
    And your essay seams to insist there is a relationship \"essay on the connection
    between blackletter and violent and extreme subcultures\"\r\n\r\nBut there is'nt
    one.\r\nIts not the fonts' guilty but the people ones.\r\nTheir associations are
    wrong. Why don't you write an \"essay on wrong associations between blackletters
    and Nazism/violance.\"?\r\n\r\nHerewith I send you a Fruehling (spring) from Rudolf
    Koch out of 1917. Very dramatic, mh? Shortly before the World War I ended. A real
    sign of the \"Hunnen\" :-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1_4039.jpg]\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\nwww.bleisetzer.de\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-19 13:04:54'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "This is one of the latest contributions to this debate:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontblog.de/fraktur-ist-auch-eine-nazi-schrift\r\n\r\n\"Fraktur
    is (also) a Nazi typeface\"\r\n\r\nUnfortunately only in German, though. You may
    try babelfish."
  created: '2006-10-19 13:41:29'
- author:
    name: Thord
  body: "To Alessandro: Thank you for your feedback. I had actually already ordered
    the book from Amazon, so I hope that will be helpful for my essay. And the previous
    discussion here at typophile has also been helpful. No to mention the Eye article
    which seems to be very in tune with what I am trying to say. They often are\u2026\r\n\r\nAnd
    to Bleisetzer: I hope I have not offended you. I am as fond of blackletter as
    you seem to be. I am aware of the history of this style, at least to some degree,
    and that there is no relationship between the origins of blackletter and violence.
    But most people will not have that knowledge about the history of typography.
    As you point out I will need to explain why, and if, there is a conection between
    the two.\r\n\r\nIn my opinion it all comes down to the thing that is so frustrating
    and intriguing about type-design. That you are seldom able to control or predict
    what the type will be used for, and so the meaning of it evolves and changes through
    time. As it is pointed out in said Eye article.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-19 13:49:53'
- author:
    name: Thord
  body: "Oh, and thank you Tim. Although I will need to dig up my Norwegian - German
    dictionary :-)\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-19 13:52:45'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "@ Thord\r\n\r\nOh no, I am not offended, why should I?\r\n\r\nWhat I see
    again and again in discussions like the one Tim Ahrens postet:\r\nhttp://www.fontblog.de/fraktur-ist-auch-eine-nazi-schrift\r\n\r\nis
    that lots of the typography professionals in Germany (its a german forum discussion,
    what Tim listed above) are not familiar with their own history.\r\n\r\nExample:\r\nJust
    the start of the discussion shows two pictures:\r\nPicture two (right side) is
    showing a poster for a 1. Mai \"meeting\". Its from 1938, when the Nazi government
    was established since 5 years. So it was not a 1. Mai demonstration of the workers,
    it was a Nazi demonstration and to go there was a duty.\r\n\r\nThe left picture
    has nothing to do with the Nazi. \"Luftschutz\" means proctection against air
    attack. These organisations were organized in all european nations since approx.
    1923. Of course there was a german army \"Reichswehr\" before 1933. But this was
    not a Nazi organisation.\r\n\r\nAnd of course the font for the word \"Luftschutz\"
    was a blackletter. Because this was the common font in the 20ies. I am sure no
    one of the discussion members know these details. But its typical. Exactly in
    this way the bridge from blackletter fonts to Nazism was built.\r\n\r\nBlackletters
    in Germany were used since 16th century - 400 years. But only 12 years from 1933
    up to 1945 the Nazi dictatur was present.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nwww.bleisetzer.de\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-19 14:23:44'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: The Nazis ruined everything. Jerks.
  created: '2006-10-19 15:05:21'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "So what?\r\n\r\nTo agree with \"Blackletter is Nazi stuff\" means to let
    these fonts (and our freedom to use it) exactly these Nazis. Can this make sense?
    Why should we give up and let them occupy important and wonderful parts of our
    culture?\r\n\r\nTake these fonts and use them for your designs, if possible.\r\nThis
    means to fight 'em.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\nwww.bleisetzer.de\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-19 15:18:56'
- author:
    name: Thord
  body: "I understand exactly what you saying Georg. Much of the associations to Nazism
    may be based on misunderstandings. But it does not change the fact that this association
    is common among many people. \r\n\r\nIn Norway, and I suppose other countries
    as well, people associate it with Satanism. Largely due to the fact that Norwegian
    black metal bands have used it on their cover art. This is somewhat peculiar,
    when you consider the origins of blackletter, and its use in bibles and such.
    \r\n"
  created: '2006-10-19 15:21:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">But there is\u2019nt one.\r\n>Its not the fonts\u2019 guilty but the people
    ones.\r\n\r\nOf course, the typeface is not 'guilty' or innocent for that matter.
    But the reality is that typefaces have emotional associations, deserved or not.
    In the US there are a number of associations of blackletter, one of them being
    with the Nazi party. \r\n\r\n1. Church uses. Here there is no association with
    violence. \r\n\r\n2. Newspaper Nameplates. Again no association. \r\n\r\n3. Beer
    names. Here the association is with Germany, but not with the Nazi party. \r\n\r\n4.
    Nazi party. Since, as Tim's link explains, the Nazis identified Fraktur in particular
    as the 'true German script' and used it in their propaganda until 1941--and post-war
    Germany largely abandoned black letter--this is one association. \r\n\r\n5. Heavy
    metal bands. Here perhaps starting with the AC/DC logo heavy metal bands have
    used blackletter. This music tends to be angry or despairing, so there may be
    some emotional link with Naziism. Not with the AC/DC logo itself, I should note.
    However, a sub-genre of heavy metal are the 'skinhead' or neo-Nazi bands, so there
    is an association with both Naziism and violence here.\r\n\r\nI'm sure there are
    other associations as well, but these are the first that come to mind.  "
  created: '2006-10-19 15:24:35'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "To expand on Alessandro Segalini's recommendation of Paul Shaw and Peter
    Bain's book, the American Printing History Association (APHA) devoted a double
    issue of their Printing History journal (38/39) to all the information that was
    actually used in the exhibition, showing the various blackletter examples. It's
    a good companion.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.printinghistory.org"
  created: '2006-10-19 15:42:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'I haven''t personally researched the topic, but a very erudite designer I
    know who has worked for the music industry for decades told me that blackletter
    came back because it was just something people hadn''t seen for a long time outside
    of it''s traditional contexts. So when huge tattoos, graffiti images, etc. written
    in blackletter started popping up, they really stood out and became trendy. '
  created: '2006-10-19 15:58:57'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "Dear Bleisetzer,\r\nPlease tell me how a poster published by the Reichsluftschutzbund
    which was part of Hermann G\xF6ring's Reichsluftfahrtministerium can have \u201Enothing
    to do with Nazis\u201C and not be a Nazi organization.\r\nThe Reichsluftschutzbund
    was just one organization being part of the whole Nazi machinery (among lots of
    other organizations) to prepare Germany for World War II and hammer Nazi ideology
    in people's brains.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-19 16:00:21'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "Dear Bleisetzer,\r\ni forgot to add that i completely understand your argument
    and where you're coming from in regards of usage of fraktur today (Although my
    personal opinion is different). But I think you're factually wrong regarding the
    Luftschutz poster only."
  created: '2006-10-19 16:20:20'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Dear Franz Heidl,\r\nyes, I understand what you mean.\r\nOf course I accept
    your opinion as you do with mine.\r\n\r\n\"Luftschutz\":\r\nI did not say that
    this organisation had nothing to do with the Nazi party. Of course they had from
    1933, because all organisations were overtaken by them.\r\n\r\nWhat I said is:\r\nAfter
    World War I, which ended 1918, it was forbidden for Germany to have an army with
    more than 100,000 men. They were not allowed to build up an air force. The so
    called \"Reichswehr\" re-organized the army in a more or less tricky way. It was
    and it is no question that a nation is allowed to have an army? So Germany had
    one after 1918. And one part of it was an organisation for flight bomb attacks.
    This was organized long before Hermann G\xF6ring became Flight Marshall in 1933.
    And long before Germany spend more and more for arming up.\r\n\r\nBack to the
    picture we speak about:\r\nEvery german soldier after 1933 was wearing a Nazi
    symbol from any organisation. This is exakt what is ment by \"overtaking\" (or,
    in german: Gleichschaltung). This soldier on the poster does not. His helmet is
    a model M 18:\r\n\r\nFrom 1933 it was a model M 35:\r\n\r\n----- This was too
    much with the pictures. Its easy to find it by Google. ------------\r\n\r\nI know
    it is difficult, but this are the facts.\r\nIt shows how easy it is to think in
    cliches - for everyone, including myself.\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\nwww.bleisetzer.de\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-19 16:45:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dude, where's my archives?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-19 17:02:52'
- author:
    name: Thord
  body: "Oh dear. This turned into a discussion about Nazism. I suppose its still
    a touchy subject. \u201CDon\u2019t mention the war\u201D as John Cleese once urged.
    \r\n\r\nAnd to jpad: I think you\u2019re right, many fashions seem to come in
    cycles. But I think there will always be a reason why some things come back and
    some things don\u2019t. And in that respect I think that some of the allure of
    blackletter might be taboos associated with it. The whole blackletter revival
    of the recent years has been closely connected to youth culture. And youth culture
    often adopts taboos to appear more \u201Cedgy\u201D.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-19 17:39:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Speaking of which:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/28921\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-19 17:46:08'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Well, Thord, you were the one who spoke about a \"connection between blackletter
    and Nazism\", remember your first entry? \r\n\r\nBut hrant may be right: Let's
    better talk about hyphen:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/28902\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\nwww.bleisetzer.de\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-19 18:30:54'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "Was reading Typology buy Louis Fili and they have a bit about German Expressionism
    (Die Brucke in 1905 and Der Blaue Reiter in 1911). \r\n\r\nAnd that \"Expressionists
    found a graphic means to communicate their raw emotions.\" Maybe their use of
    blackletter with violent or political means helped develop the association?\r\n\r\nAlso,
    \"The Postwar Expressionists introduced rigid wood-cut lettering that gave the
    style its force. The letters grew out of the unforgiving wood medium.\"\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2006-10-19 18:48:43'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I once heard it explained that, in the case of American gang culture, is
    that blackletter type has immediate associations of respect and authority. It's
    what they saw on newspaper mastheads, birth certficates, diplomas, and other official
    documents, bibles, and so forth, and therefore were adopted for those associations.\r\n\r\nI'll
    have to dig up a reference on that , but that's the gist of it. I don't think
    any thought was given to Nazi, or even generally Eurpoean connections."
  created: '2006-10-19 19:23:14'
- author:
    name: Thord
  body: 'Thanks. That sounds like a very plausible explaination. '
  created: '2006-10-19 19:27:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">very plausible explaination\r\n\r\nBut wrong. Gangs are violent, and seek
    power through violence. The Nazi association is definitely there. \r\n\r\nI am
    not saying that black letter *should* be associated with the Nazis. It is quite
    unfortunate. Also as I said many contexts seem to have escaped the association--church,
    newspaper nameplates, diplomas, beer, etc. \r\n\r\nStill the association is there,
    and those who are drawn to power through violence do often use black letter to
    express their ideal of domination through brutality. I am saddened by the association.
    But it's a reality. "
  created: '2006-10-19 19:36:36'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Of course american members understand more about american gang culture I
    do as a german.\r\nBut as a fact: In Germany blackletters are not used by the
    youth gangs. They use fantasy fonts like in graffities. Hiphop musicians sometimes
    use blackletters, but not violance orientated gangs.\r\n\r\nWhat we have are motorcycle
    groups, just from their outfit close to the american Hell's Angels. They use blackletters,
    too.\r\n\r\nMay be this combination of blackletters and violance is only found
    in the street gangs in the US? Could it be that they do not look for german blackletters,
    but for anglo-american ones?\r\n\r\nA kind of natural combination of violance
    and blackletters, I do not believe that.\r\n\r\nTell me: Is this in your eyes
    close to violance?\r\nIn my eyes its historical:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1_4135.jpg]\r\n\r\nAnd
    this is a joke. Once a week I am making internet radio:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2_5404.jpg]\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\nwww.bleisetzer.de\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-19 19:52:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The whole blackletter revival of the recent years has been closely
    connected to youth culture. And youth culture often adopts taboos to appear more
    \u201Cedgy\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nI've always thought that it was more likely that
    most younger people simply don't know about the Nazi-era association of Blackletter,
    and with many of the Americans who remember it retired or dead, there aren't a
    lot of people around to keep it taboo, and that this is why Blackletter moved
    from underground culture into the mainstream,. I'm think that twenty years ago
    B'nai Brith would have had a field day with a lot of the fraktur use we're seeing
    in mainstream advertising right now. "
  created: '2006-10-19 20:23:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I\u2019m think that twenty years ago B\u2019nai Brith would have had a field
    day with a lot of the fraktur use we\u2019re seeing in mainstream advertising
    right now.\r\n\r\nWhat you are talking about? So far as I know no Jewish organization
    has ever criticized blackletter. It is the neo-nazis etc who keep using it and
    who keep up the unfortunate association. "
  created: '2006-10-19 20:33:25'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "I am trying to figure out what xactly an X-treme culture just might be...
    Are the Amish an eXtreme culture? \r\n\r\nThe Roman Empire was warmongering, imperialistic
    and violent. Do we get violence from looking at Trajan?"
  created: '2006-10-19 22:00:32'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "And now for a heavy metal interlude...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/perseverance_5849.jpg]\r\n\r\nOne
    of my favorite bands uses Fraktur for its logo. Blackletter is synonymous with
    \"bad a$$.\" I love Blackletter, but I think as Bill pointed out there are other
    associations as well. Linotext and lighter weight blackletter faces are more closely
    associated with Christianity and \"the church,\" at least to me they are. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-19 22:04:24'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: Everytime I see blackletter I have an irresistible urge to invade Poland.
  created: '2006-10-19 22:08:28'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: And on the heavy metal note, I'd like the wiki de-disinformationed. As been
    around metal for quite a LONG time now. I've probably seen a total of 3 or 4 bands
    with blackletter in their title. Is it Spinal Tap that makes everyone think that?
    Do a survey. Sharp spikey metal roman letters are the norm.
  created: '2006-10-19 22:14:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thord, I think it's very difficult to generalize, and that each instance
    of \"type specification\" has its own multiplex cultural determinants, the combination
    of which is often quite whimsical and serendipitous.  For instance, consider this:\r\n\r\nBlackletter
    newspaper nameplates originated with the 1712 introduction of newspaper taxes
    in Britain, when the sudden increase in paper costs forced publishers to economize
    on the amount of space alloted to the title line, minimizing its type size and
    choosing the darkest type then available, which was blackletter. (John E . Allen,
    Newspaper Designing, Harper, 1947). \r\n\r\nQuite by coincidence, when newspapers
    became a mass phenomenon around 1900 (due to various factors, notably the Linotype),
    the trendy style in typography was Kelmscott-inspired (William Morris) mediaevalist
    Arts and Crafts. Many papers which had Roman mastheads switched to Blackletter
    at that time, for instance the Birmingham News (Alabama), and have stuck with
    it to this day. \r\n"
  created: '2006-10-19 22:16:27'
- author:
    name: Thord
  body: "Nick, I think you\u2019re right. I am starting to understand that my theme
    may be more complex than I had initially thought. \r\n\r\nThe university course
    I am taking is called visual rhetorics, and it deals mainly with pictures. Most
    of my fellow students are not that familiar with typography and the idea that
    a typeface communicates was quite new to them. This is partly why I chose this
    theme. When I presented samples of Fette Fraktur they all had different connotations
    to the style, and they had strong opinions about its use. I suspect that I would
    not have gotten the same reactions had I shown them a sample of for instance \u201CTrajan
    capitals\u201D, as Solipsism pointed out. Their interpretations may be based on
    prejudice and ignorance, but it is still the way they perceived it, and I suspect
    that many other perceive it in the same way. It seems like blackletter types have
    stronger emotional connotations than most.\r\n\r\nAs many of you have pointed
    out, there are a number of examples were the use of blackletter has nothing to
    do with violent or aggressive subcultures. But many of them seem to connect to
    a well-established custom. Beer labels, newspapers, churches and so on. \r\n"
  created: '2006-10-19 23:07:22'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "NAZI!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/vw_logo_6515.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/HitlerPorscheVW1938-300pxw_5049.png]"
  created: '2006-10-20 00:35:56'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>What you are talking about? So far as I know no Jewish organization
    has ever criticized blackletter. It is the neo-nazis etc who keep using it and
    who keep up the unfortunate association.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm under the impression
    that until recently people had avoided using blackletter under the assumption
    that the Nazi associations would offend, and that as more of the generation that
    directly remembered Nazism have died or retired from design jobs, it became acceptable
    to use blackletter again. Which is why I think that twenty years ago, when more
    people still remembered the association, it would have gotten the attention of
    anti-Nazi groups. \r\n\r\n<cite>NAZI!</cite>\r\n\r\nDoes it ever seem odd to anyone
    else that VW uses type developed by a guy that the Nazis persecuted?"
  created: '2006-10-20 01:55:14'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "ahh they also persecuted the bauhaus! That's a definite benefite methinks.
    Although i wouldn't shrug blackletter because of i'ts association.\r\n\r\nAt least
    I thought they were associated. Maybe someone will post the post from the German
    student asking about new ways to use blackletter to help rid it of the connotations?"
  created: '2006-10-20 04:38:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Best first step: set a book about Yiddish in blackletter.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 04:51:34'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Ignorant of the history of the face as a youth, I never missed the relation
    between lowercased blackletter and insuated violence. I think pointed bottoms
    are intentionally exploited to that end. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Megadeth_logo_chrome_5913.png]
    [img:sites/default/files/old-images/unleashed_logo_4912.jpg]\r\nThe same could
    be said of select grunge, theme or abstract fonts, or any where strong downward
    points will appear in some of the fonts. Curves, swirls and softly rounded edges
    appear peaceful, while barbed, jagged and pointy don't. In the relatively minor
    section of metal bands that do use blackletter in logos, they always pick the
    sharpest ones, like the hatebreed example up above.\r\n\r\nWhen I was designing
    and naming !The Black Bloc, I was specifically looking to create a softer, or
    more ambigous version of blackletter, to challenge its datedness and screw with
    its violent reputation.\r\n\r\nTurns out, it's been popular with 'tough girls'.
    Guess I didn't go far enough.~\r\n\r\nOn gangs, Cuttlefish nailed it. In America,
    today's youth are pretty far removed from the Nazi-era fashion (& not too apt
    to study type history. But the observation of the \"officialness\" of ornate blackletter
    caps has lent them a sense of melodrama that gangs, and other melodramatic teens/young
    adults enjoy. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/sublime_4361.jpg]\r\nI've observed
    tattooist and patrons mixing blackletter caps with latin lowercase, immediately
    after some newspapers began doing the same thing in the 1990's. And in those body-mod
    circles, it is referred to nearly exclusively as \"Old English\", even if it pulled
    directly from a German source.\r\n\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-10-20 06:25:15'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "Hi Thord,\r\nyou say you're writing on blackletter and extreme cultures.
    There are some cultures which haven't been mentioned in this discussion, and those
    are the hardcore/vegan and skateboard/snowboard subcultures. Blackletter is widely
    used in these cultures, even though they're not \"violence based\" like satanism
    and nazism. Maybe these cultures sre drawing on the  widespread association between
    violence and blackletter to communicate a somewhat aggressive or \"dangerous\"
    image. For some examples of violent aesthetics in the hardcore music scene, take
    a look at http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hardcore_dancing . You'll find links to
    some hilarious dance clips here.\r\n\r\nvennlig hilsen alex"
  created: '2006-10-20 07:34:59'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Please disabuse me, I am not knowledgeable about gang culture in America,
    does the extensive use of blackletter in Mexico have any bearing on its use among
    hispanic gangs?\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/17496?from=50&comments_per_page=50\r\n\r\nbtw
    came across this\r\nhttp://www.countrybookshop.co.uk/books/index.phtml?whatfor=0977282783\r\n\r\nTim\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 08:35:07'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "The title of Thord's threat is\r\n\"What is the connection between...\"\r\nand
    not\r\n\"Is there a connection between...\"\r\n\r\nThis makes an open discussion
    difficult, does'nt it?\r\nMay be the job is to find hints and facts for the violence,
    he needs, and that's it.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\nwww.bleisetzer.de\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 08:36:02'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "Georg,\r\n\r\nI would say there is a connection. Like it or not, a lot of
    people who have little knowledge on the history of type and/or aren't german (which
    happens to be a substantial part of the world's population) associate blackletter/old
    english/schwabacher or whatever name they pick with \xABdas dritte reich\xBB,
    violence, extremism of different kinds and so on. So the question is \"why?\".
    I mean, could Frankfurter ever be the typeface of choice for an aspiring dictator?\r\n\r\nalex "
  created: '2006-10-20 08:56:05'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Alex,\r\ndo you know the earth is a flat plate?\r\nLook out of the window
    and you'll see it.\r\n\r\nSome guys tell us this is'nt so? How silly they are.\r\n\"Like
    it or not, a lot of people who have little knowledge on the geographic of the
    earth associate mother earth with \xABa flat plate\xBB.\"\r\n\r\nSo we should
    accept this and just try to find facts to take care not to go to close to this
    plate's end. Because we could fall into the big nothing.\r\n\r\nI prefer facts.
    And if the mass of people think in a wrong way there is no reason for me to give
    up my way of thinking.\r\n\r\nBest regards,\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\nwww.bleisetzer.de\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 09:09:58'
- author:
    name: Thord
  body: "Takk for tipset Alex. Thank you all for good suggestions. \r\nMany of you
    have remarked that the Nazi-era associations have died out with the people who
    experienced WW2. I am not sure that I agree. \r\nThe war may be long gone but
    its presence in popular culture is still strong, through countless movies, computer
    games, books, comics, TV-series and endless documentaries. Thus people are subjected
    to the symbols of this era all the time, and although the taboo of these may be
    fading, the knowledge is still present. If anything I suppose one could argue
    that the associations to the Third Reich has been affirmed by the use of it in
    popular culture. \r\nThis does not mean that I see a connection between this and
    its use in gang culture. I too have far too little knowledge about American gang
    culture. And the extensive use of blackletter in Mexico seems like a very interesting
    and plausible connection.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 09:33:46'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Hypothesizing a little further spanish speaking gangs in LA may have adopted
    a style familiar to their environment and some other sub-cultures (like skateboarders,
    rappers) picked up from them associating the style with being outside the mainstream.\r\nHowever
    the use of blackletter in heavy metal and particularly skinhead cultures may have
    come from <em>mistaken associations</em> with Nazism. It seems pointless to deny
    that there are associations, whether they are correct or incorrect, Georg is doing
    a good job of defending blackletter, however for the majority of visitors to this
    forum he is preaching to the converted (or those that never needed to be converted).\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-20 10:19:37'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "\"And the extensive use of blackletter in Mexico seems like a very interesting
    and plausible connection.\"\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1_5877.jpg]\r\n\r\nMaximilian
    von Habsburg, Kaiser von Mexiko\r\n\r\nHe ruled Mexiko for some years in the 1860ies.\r\nHe
    was from Austria, a brother of Kaiser Franz Josef.\r\n\r\nMay be he brought these
    blackletters with him, full of violance.\r\nBy the way: France supported him with
    money and soldiers.\r\nAnd the United States of America followed their Monroe
    doktrin and forced all french troops to leave the country.\r\n\r\nThey (the americans)
    brought lots of new blackletters to Mexiko, each of it full of aggressive power.
    This mixture - austrian/german and north american blackletter influence may be
    the reason the mexican street gangs are so aggressive.\r\n\r\nSoon, in 2008 (if
    the Chinese do not give a veto) all blackletters in Mexico will be changed to
    flower-power fonts. Unicef said there will be a toll free exchange for all the
    sprayers of the gangs. They all geht orange, light blue and pink colours.\r\n\r\nLife
    can be so easy following the rules of the masses :-)\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n(This was
    a joke. May be not a good one for everybode but I like it).\r\n\r\nwww.bleisetzer.de\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 12:28:52'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "Georg,\r\nof course, that the average joe thinks that blackletter=nazi doesn't
    mean he's right. But it's still interesting why he thinks so.\r\n\r\nallet jute
    aus oslo\r\n\r\nalex\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 13:55:09'
- author:
    name: Vince Navarro
    picture: 111917
  body: "Along with jpad and others I believe this is where the association became
    to be. What was old is now new, and thus the world turns.\r\n\r\nJust think of
    it as anti-modernism if that makes any sense..."
  created: '2006-10-20 14:48:33'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "I've always assumed that the connection between gangs and blackletter stemmed
    from US motorcycle gangs post World War 2 who took on various military themes
    and insignia: iron cross, swastika, \"pickelhaube\" spiked helmets, the term \"Hells's
    Angels\" from the Howard Hughes film. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 15:38:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> This makes an open discussion difficult, does\u2019nt it?\r\n\r\nDepends
    on you. Historically, Typophile thread titles have had little bearing on the actual
    aggregate contents of threads.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 15:52:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Here's what I know about the association between blackletter and Nazis in
    the US. Prior to WW2 blackletter was used regularly in specific contexts: newspaper
    nameplates, headings for church documents, headings in diplomas, beer names and
    anything trying to appear 'olde English' or German. \r\n\r\nThese connections
    remained after WWII, but for most people the additional Nazi connection was added.
    This is because outside these very specific traditional contexts blackletter was
    rare. And so the films from and about the Nazi era were the main place Americans
    saw blackletter, particularly used as text. Hence the new connection. \r\n\r\nThose
    who knew German--such as refugees, Jewish and non-Jewish--were of course aware
    that blackletter was far more general and historical. Hence Jewish organizations
    knew better than to have any bias against blackletter as a special Nazi invention.
    \r\n\r\nAs to inherent feel, I don't think blackletter is inherently agressive.
    It depends on how it is treated. Terminals can be made dagger-like, but so can
    roman fonts.\r\n\r\nI would be interested in the story of why within Germany itself
    they avoided blackletter after WWII. Was there any association by Germans of fraktur
    with the Nazi era? Was it a product of the occupation by the Allies? Was it an
    extension of the Nazi ban on blackletter? A combination?"
  created: '2006-10-20 16:02:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Those who knew German\u2014such as refugees, Jewish and non-Jewish\u2014were\r\n>
    of course aware that blackletter was far more general and historical.\r\n> Hence
    Jewish organizations knew better than to have any bias against\r\n> blackletter
    as a special Nazi invention.\r\n\r\nThere are two flaws in this:\r\n1) It assumes
    all Jews are really into WWII-era German typography.\r\n2) You can know something
    and still pretend not to.\r\n\r\nThe important thing about blackletter is that
    it's not just a fringe/grunge tool.\r\nThe US mainstream uses it to demonize things
    it considers the enemy:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lipstickjihad_4724.jpg]\r\n\r\nWhat
    remains is to identify/admit who plays what role in driving the US mainstream.
    And if you're basing your views on official press releases, you can't get there
    from here.\r\n\r\n(Of course now it's time for some textbook Anglo \"Yeah, it's
    all a big conspiracy, ha ha ha!\" escapist sarcasm. As if people with power have
    ever needed to conspire anything instead of simply going ahead with their obvious
    plans.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 16:15:30'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: ">I would be interested in the story of why within Germany itself they avoided
    blackletter after WWII.\r\n\r\nBlackletter isn't too easy to read, that would
    be a reason to abandon it in schoolbooks.\r\n\r\nI have been told that the nazi
    regime abandoned black-letter (they called it schwabacher, i think) during the
    war, when they discovered it had jewish roots or so. If this is true, it would
    be interesting to know how the regime explained such a \"mistake\". Do you have
    any info on that, Georg?\r\n\r\nThord: Sorry to lead your thread even more astray
    :-)\r\n\r\nalex"
  created: '2006-10-20 16:31:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dammit where's my archives dammit!!  :-/\r\nAll this is in there, so we shouldn't
    have to re-correct people all the time!\r\n\r\nBTW, blackletter is MORE readable.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 16:38:34'
- author:
    name: Thord
  body: "No problem Alex. What you are talking of is the mentioned \u201CBormann Decree\u201D.
    I also found a quote that might cast some light on your question about why it
    was abandoned.Although I suspect not everyone here will agree with the statements:\r\n\r\n\"The
    Nazi resurrection of Fraktur type offers another historically important example
    of ideology in typography. Fraktur, a typeface initially prized by the Nazis for
    its \"German-ness,\" symbolized a totalitarian politics that valued style over
    content. Not surprisingly, once early victories \"encouraged them to look beyond
    Germany's borders, the Nazis, quickly recognized the usefulness of a plainer,
    more 'European' style, banned Fraktur on 3 January 1941 as a 'Jewish invention.\"
    \r\nSurrogate multiplicities: Typography in the age of invisibility\r\nVisible
    Language,  2001  by Salen, Katie\r\n\r\nThord"
  created: '2006-10-20 16:43:33'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "\"I would be interested in the story of why within Germany itself they avoided
    blackletter after WWII. Was there any association by Germans of fraktur with the
    Nazi era? Was it a product of the occupation by the Allies? Was it an extension
    of the Nazi ban on blackletter? A combination?\"\r\n\r\nOne thing before:\r\nThere
    was a strikt order from Deutsche Wehrmacht for signs and posters in all occupied
    east european countries, Poland, Russia, to use only Antiqua or Grotesk fonts.
    The reason was: The people in these countries could not read \"Fraktur\"-Fonts
    (Blackletter). So it made no sense to hang up posters in blackletter.\r\n\r\nAfter
    World War II.. its is difficult to explain for me, as a german, to you guys. I'll
    try to be honest and do not want to offend anyone, okay?\r\n\r\nThe \"normal\"
    german was lucky to survive the war. That's all. Everything was \"kaputt\" and
    everyone was missing husband or wife, children, brother or whomever. Lots of their
    beloved were dead. Winter '46 and '47 were very hard and most of the houses in
    the cities were bombed. The people wanted to eat, to sleep and to find their families.
    Nobody was interested in fonts.\r\n\r\nI can only speak for the people in West
    Germany, I guess in East Germany it was worse. From end of the 40ies it became
    better. And the Allies in each zone of Germany set the standard: Music, newspapers,
    culture, and fonts. 12 years nobody was allowed to have his own suggestions. Now
    they believed in becoming freedom and a better life. Yes, I am sure that - for
    a while - the germans worked out a kind of mimikry \"Let's look to the americans/english
    soldiers to know what is good music, fashion and culture.\"\r\n\r\nThe use of
    blackletter was old fashion. That's why it was not used anymore. But that's all.
    I do not think anyone in Germany thought blackletters are Nazi stuff. It was as
    old as \"Deutsche Gemutlichkeit\" (you know that \"typical german having fun?
    argghh..)\r\n\r\nOkay, I did my very best. Hang me.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\nwww.bleisetzer.de\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 16:45:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">when they discovered it had jewish roots or so.\r\n\r\nNo, the story has
    been related here before. As I remember the story, at some point the Nazis realized
    to administer their conquered territories they had to use roman, which was also
    the only thing available in local printing plants. So they made the ridiculous
    'discovery' that blackletter was Jewish. This was just one of the piles of Nazi
    lies. Except for the original Roman caps, all the latin letter forms in the 15th
    century, when printing came in,had been of course developed by Christian scribes.\r\n\r\nHere's
    a <a href=\"http://german.about.com/library/gallery/blfoto_fraktur06.htm\">link
    to the 'Bormann Decree'</a>, which rejected blackletter.  "
  created: '2006-10-20 16:50:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> This was just one of the piles of Nazi lies.\r\n\r\nNow they're gone, but
    new liars have replaced them,\r\nand with similar lies, just more expertly crafted.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-20 16:54:21'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">The US mainstream uses it to demonize things it considers the enemy\r\n\r\nExactly
    why a youth culture would choose it.\r\n\r\n>iron cross, swastika, \u201Cpickelhaube\u201D
    spiked helmets, the term \u201CHells\u2019s Angels\u201D from the Howard Hughes
    film.\r\n\r\nBut not blackletter, preferring a tuscan style although the Nazi
    association exists of course those are also the things that a youth might choose
    to upset \"the man\" rather than any admiration or sympathy for Nazism, rather
    like Sid Vicious in 1977.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-20 17:14:50'
- author:
    name: skelly
    picture: 111966
  body: "Interesting article that mentions the connection between blackletter and
    graffiti:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.pingmag.jp/2006/10/19/bright-lights-big-city-los-angeles-graffiti-on-screen-and-in-print/"
  created: '2006-10-20 18:46:15'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"My interest is in its general use as a style associated with danger and
    violence.\"\r\n\r\n...and newspaper logotypes, among other things. The fact that
    some these places are now and forever, echoes of previous uses for anti-humanist
    purposes is still, echoes and all,  just one small branch of its use. It is our
    most primal form of type and as such, it is a \"can't miss\" font when you think
    about attraction of attention in the many places it is used.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-21 00:28:30'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "It's all about volume (as in intensity), and how you play off that volume.
    The cultures and subcultures that use this aesthetic theme are making a loud and
    proud declaration. Some of it that I've seen, is pretty damn sexy stuff. \r\n\r\nAnd
    kudos to those artists that are doing (and have done) kick ass work - whether
    it be for the nazi party or a snoope dogg birthday party.\r\n\r\n\r\nHiro "
  created: '2006-10-21 04:45:06'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "another thing, thord: you're writing on blackletter+extremism, i.e. rebellion
    and typography. maybe it would be interesting to mention or consider graffiti
    as youth rebellion through calligraphy, regardless of the aesthetic similarities
    between graffiti and blackletter. A band like Hatebreed communicates by choosing
    type, but a graffiti writer communicates by performing type.\r\n\r\ngod helg!\r\n\r\nalex"
  created: '2006-10-21 09:58:02'
- author:
    name: Thord
  body: "That might be a good idea. What you mention about rebellion also has another
    dimension to it that has not been mentioned explicitly in this forum. \r\nThe
    nature of the modern use of blackletter in these instances; motorcycle gangs,
    black metal, American gangs and even neo nazis are quite different from its use
    in pre-war Germany, when the use was part of a national and government agenda.
    In other words; today it is used to upset \u201Cthe man\u201D as timd put it,
    whereas \u201Cthe man\u201D represented the use in that era. \r\n"
  created: '2006-10-21 13:32:01'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "\"...today it is used to upset \u201Cthe man\u201D as timd put it, whereas
    \u201Cthe man\u201D represented the use in that era.\"\r\n\r\nThese pics are one
    week old from Vienna, Austria.\r\nI think the shop which uses the gothik font
    (or the \"bad Nazi Stiefelknecht-Fraktur font\" how someone said in this thread)
    is a young fashioned hairdresser. I do not know it, but it could be \"Chadim\"
    is a jewish name? However, not so important, but would be another argument against
    your theory against blackletters. I do not believe jewish people would use blackletters
    if there is any relationship to Nazism.\r\n\r\nI saw no Hell's Angel walking around,
    only the two young employees, astonished why I was making pictures. But laughing,
    when I told them the reason was their window with the gothic font. They heard
    Haydn - classic music. I could not see any HipHoppers or Grunge or Mexican street
    gang members anywhere around.\r\n\r\nCan it be its the \"cultural remembering\"
    is different seeing blackletters from country to country?\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/KICX1415_6425.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/KICX1418_4058.JPG]"
  created: '2006-10-21 16:38:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Can it be its the \u201Ccultural remembering\u201D is different seeing blackletters
    from country to country?\r\n\r\nI would expect this to be true, but I don't know;
    that's why I was asking about the story within Germany. There has to be more to
    the story than what you related above.\r\n\r\n>it could be \u201CChadim\u201D
    is a jewish name? \r\n\r\nI don't know--the name seems to come from Bohemia. All
    Jews in Vienna were dispossessed of all their property in 1938-39 and almost all
    either left the country or were murdered--in Dachau or elsewhere. So if the shop
    owner is Jewish it couldn't actually have been continously 'in family possession
    since 1905'. "
  created: '2006-10-21 17:24:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Georg, sorry, I can't leave you alone here: you're in denial.\r\nMaybe travel
    would help.\r\n\r\nWilliam, you can't say \"all\". Also: maybe they weren't Jewish
    -in terms of religion- for the whole duration. Just like some Armenians converted
    to Islam to avoid being murdered by the Turks. Anyway, the bottom line is: you
    can't be so sure.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-21 17:32:14'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "@ hrant\r\n\r\nIs it possible to explain in more easy words what it means.\r\nI
    cannot understand it:\r\n\"Georg, sorry, I can\u2019t leave you alone here: you\u2019re
    in denial.\r\nMaybe travel would help.\"\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\n\r\nwww.bleisetzer.de\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-21 18:36:20'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "There is a jewish community in Vienna again, we visited the Jewish Museum
    and I spoke with a Zionis lady in the bookshop nearby. Some of the jewish came
    back to Vienna after 1945. Some of them might have continued their old business
    again. But, how I wrote, this was not the major point. Its one of the fonts some
    of the members here called \"Nazi fonts\". A Group Xa - Gothic font.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-21 18:41:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>And kudos to those artists that are doing (and have done) kick --- work
    - whether it be for the nazi party or a snoope dogg birthday party.</em>\r\n\r\nYou've
    got that the wrong way round.\r\nKudos belongs to those artists who decline to
    let the end (doing kickarse work) justify the means (being bankrolled by fascists
    and chauvinists)."
  created: '2006-10-21 18:52:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thanks for that, Nick.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-21 20:51:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hrant, you are misinformed. Study and learn. \r\n\r\nA recent newspaper account:\r\n\r\n\"According
    to historical records, of the roughly 200,000 Jews living in Austria before the
    country was annexed by the Nazis in 1938, some 65,000 perished in the Holocaust,
    mostly in Nazi concentration camps. Most of the rest were forced to leave or fled
    to escape certain death.\r\n\r\nAt the end of the war, only about 1,000 Jews had
    survived.\r\n\r\nJewish homes and properties were systematically looted by the
    authorities, Nazi party factions and private citizens...\"\r\n\r\nFrom other sources:
    By German laws (Austria had become part of 'Greater Germany') all Jews were dispossessed
    of retail business (such as the one pictured), manufacturing business and professional
    licenses, such as doctor and lawyer. Adolph Eichmann was in charge of the persecution
    in Austria, and his actions were taken as a model for persecution elsewhere. \r\n\r\nFinally,
    Jewishness was not defined by the Nazis by religion, but by ancestry.  "
  created: '2006-10-21 22:56:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A fine press release.\r\n\r\nMy complaint is simply with your absolutism.
    I guess you can't see that you can't be sure that not a single Jewish business
    survived in Austria - that's a sign of fascism itself. Luckily the Nazi system,
    being made up of humans, wasn't a perfect machine - in fact it was less \"efficient\"
    than some other systems are today...\r\n\r\nStudy and learn... balanced, objective
    thought.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-21 23:12:45'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Finally, Jewishness was not defined by the Nazis by religion, but by ancestry.\r\n\r\nI'm
    guessing there weren't too many converts in Europe during the thousand year reich?
    I wonder how they \"defined\" gypsies, communists, mentally disabled and the others
    victimised at the time?\r\n\r\nAny way back on subject - from our local \"Bavarian\"
    town...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/March2006 432 (WinCE)_5950.jpg]"
  created: '2006-10-22 00:35:16'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: 'wow thats funny. whats the explination to the sign? '
  created: '2006-10-22 01:30:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I\u2019m guessing there weren\u2019t too many converts in Europe during
    the thousand year reich?\r\n\r\nNot so good a guess--I mean if you are talking
    about the already converted, who were persecuted.  \r\n\r\nThe German and Austrian
    Jewish community was the most assimilated in the world at the time, I believe.
    Vienna in particular was a magnet for converted Jews. For example, the parents
    of my own teacher, the late Karl Popper, were Jews who converted to Christianity.
    And he was one of those who had to flee Vienna. That he was nominally Christian
    \ made no difference to the Nazis. According to the Encyclopedia Judaica, the
    Jewish community of Vienna in 1938 said that Austria had about 180,000 Jews, 90%
    in Vienna. Himmler's lists had 220,000 people targeted as Jews for persecution.
    In other words the numbers of converts and those of mixed descent numbered an
    additional 20% over the number of religiously identified Jews.   "
  created: '2006-10-22 02:03:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "More press releases.\r\nThen they wonder why the world is going to hell in
    a handbasket.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-22 03:40:12'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">wow thats funny. whats the explination to the sign?\r\n\r\nIt's a real Starbucks
    in a fake Bavarian town in WA state... \r\nhttp://www.leavenworth.org/ \r\n\r\nAll
    the shop signs have to conform to local font rules :-) Here's a  fun one... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/akey333/69265825/
    \r\n\r\nOur motel room was directly above the Starbucks - not much fun the staff
    arrived pretty early. \r\n\r\nAlthough it sounds cheesy (and the gift shops are)
    the food is pretty authentic - we had some great schnitzel in an underground restaurant
    with imported German beer and a real German accordion player... here's a linkie
    if you're ever in the area... http://www.andreaskellerrestaurant.com/\r\n\r\n\r\n
    \ "
  created: '2006-10-22 05:30:10'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Complaints of absolutism are irrelevant and simplistly ill-tempered. It also
    doesn't matter if William was grossly oversimplifying things. It is wiser to err
    in descriptions of WW2 on the side of horrorific, until it makes one externalize
    it. There were enough witness; \"a good number\" of the Jewish were persecuted,
    and their businesses were confiscated and destroyed. Existential doubts of existence
    beyond one's mind aside, arguing with that pretty much suggest a need for new
    medicine. Regardless, business prospects were poor for known Jews. If the name
    'Chadim' was indeed obviously Jewish, it woulda gotten \"some quantity\" of grief.
    Of course, what we don't know is if:\r\n\r\nIt's been around since 1905, minus
    the war years\r\nSame business, with a revised name sometime post-war\r\nIt was
    temporarily called Moe's Tavern for a tense era in the 40's\r\nIt was one of the
    few that somehow, through an odd quirck of fate, survived and stayed open, openly
    Jewish-owned\r\n\r\nor, and this is why the parts you nit-picked are void,\r\n\r\nMaybe
    it isn't a Jewish surname. Of course, no one found the answer, so what difference
    do attacks on that sub-thread make? And we can't presume an answer, for if it
    was indeed a Jewish surname, it would have likely have been trashed, but then,
    if it survived that, they would be very likely to subtlely advertise that today.
    The odds weigh against each other.\r\n\r\nOkay, sorry everyone for taking the
    childish trollbait. I'm done.\r\n\r\nBack to the topic at hand. I'd have to say
    that if there was a Nazification of Blackletter, it all happened so fast that
    that there certainly had to betons of Germans, including Jews that had been using
    it since the 19th century's end. Fonts were enduring, governments were not. What
    would they care if another government used the same font the last few had? If
    America were to change governments twice in our lives, then be taken over by an
    oppressive extremist party, and they started their regime endorsing Times New
    Roman (before dropping it), would that mean anything at all to even a typographer,
    or would there possibly be more pressing issues?\r\n\r\nI would love to hear more
    about Thord's 3rd conjecture, regarding legibility, and clique adoption. It puts
    Blackletter forward as a sort of slang or jargon for creating exclusivity. Are
    there parallel examples with other faces?\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-10-22 08:34:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Absolutism is not something to glossed over - it a sign of disease. Of fascism.\r\nAnd
    sadly it is common among fervently religious people.\r\n\r\nBut anyway, I'm sorry
    I'm just really bad at swallowing opportunistic propaganda like I'm supposed to.
    It's because, living in the US, I'm drowning in it. Maybe if I was born and raised
    here I'd be better at believing that the sewage was drinking water.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-22 15:28:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">sorry everyone for taking the childish trollbait\r\n\r\nLately I have avoided
    responding to Hrant's provocations as it just results in a torrent of insult and
    invective with little relation to the facts. However, here I did not want to let
    his attempt to minimise the holocaust pass. The result has, of course, been a
    stream of false and malicious insult and invective. \r\n\r\n>Of course, what we
    don\u2019t know is if: ...It was one of the few that somehow, through an odd quirck
    of fate, survived and stayed open, openly Jewish-owned\r\n\r\nChoz, we do know.
    First of all, as I wrote, all Jews in Austria were officially dispossessed of
    retail business--by <a href=\"http://www.nizkor.org/ftp.cgi/places/germany/ftp.py?places/germany//kristallnacht/documents.007\">Goering's
    decree of 12 November 1938</a>. Officially no Jew could own a business, and this
    is not my 'absolutism' but simply the absolutism of Nazi policy.\r\n\r\nAnd we
    know the policy was ruthlessly and efficiently enforced by the Nazis, directed
    by Adolph Eichmann. It was also enforced by Nazi gangs who regularly went around
    beating Jews and destroying businesses. Then subsequently during the war Jews
    were systematically hunted down and killed. Hence it is inconceivable that any
    openly Jewish retail business could have operated in Vienna throughout the war.
    The 1000 out of 200,000 Jews who were still alive and in Austria at the end of
    the war didn't survive by being openly Jewish. They were either hiding or hiding
    their Jewishness. They certainly weren't openly running a retail business in Vienna
    during the war.\r\n\r\nIn any case, as the <a href=\"http://web.utanet.at/chadim63/geschichte.htm\">history
    of the Chadim shoe and leather repair business</a> makes clear, it has only been
    called 'Chadim' since 1980; I don't know whether that is a Jewish name--it is
    certainly not a common one. "
  created: '2006-10-22 17:12:19'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "\"It\u2019s because, living in the US, I\u2019m drowning in it.\"\r\n\r\nWenn
    man in Amerika lebt, einem Land, das niemals einen Krieg im eigenen Land hat erleben
    m\xFCssen, ist es wahrscheinlich einfacher, kluge Weisheiten von sich zu geben.
    Man hat dann ein so wundersch\xF6n enges Gesichtsfeld, gebildet aus 3-Min.-Nachrichten,
    von denen 2:50 Min. \xFCber das Inland berichten. Aber was solls..\r\n\r\n\"In
    any case, as the history of the Chadim shoe and leather repair business makes
    clear, it has only been called \u2018Chadim\u2019 since 1980, and earlier was
    owned by those with more clearly Germanic names, who were very unlikely to have
    been Jewish. I think it is also unlikely that the current owner is Jewish, though
    I may be wrong.\"\r\n\r\nOkay, so the owner of the shop is not jewish. But, how
    I said, its not the point. The point is the gothic font he uses. What he - as
    all the Vienna shops - wants is an association to the \"Kaiserzeit\", \"when the
    world still was going its correct way.\" He uses the gothic font as a marketing
    tool. And he seems to be successful. By the way: In the hotel, we lived, were
    a lot of american tourists. They all thought \"lovely\" and no one was thinking
    about Nazi fonts.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-22 17:41:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> minimise the holocaust\r\n\r\nMore warping of the facts. The only thing
    I was trying to do is minimize your absolutism, your faith in the Nazis when it
    suits your agenda, an agenda which: does not really involve type; and seems to
    trigger paragraphs of unsolicited off-topic elaborations at every iota of a pretext.
    \"Officially no Jew could own a business\"? Yeah, and officially anybody who drives
    over the speed limit gets a ticket. That world is one of paper, not flesh. And
    \"openly running a retail business\"? Improvise away to distortionland!! The main
    minimizing that's going on here is one of human nature. You guys made \"Schindler's
    List\", right? Go watch it again.\r\n\r\nWilliam, if you can't simply admit that
    \"couldn\u2019t actually have been\" does not make sense, that something like
    \"was very unlikely to have been\" is the more balanced, human thing to say, then
    please at least give mensch.com (or however you spelled it) to somebody else.
    And send your resume to the White House.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-22 17:43:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "How it is used is the key for usetoday.  Blackletter shouldcrtainly be available
    as a typgraphic tool just like any other type style. When it is used with evil
    images as seen in horror films, it gets the evil devil look. When used in religious
    material it gets the old church look. When used on white supremicist skin-head
    propaganda, it gets the nazi look.\r\n\r\nThere is much more to typography than
    choosing a typeface.  Content and context matter. Let's give graphic designers
    and typographers the option of using the tool in a good way.  There was a great
    deal of typewriter text used by hate groips a few decades back when there were
    few options. Nobody stopped using typewriter for everything else.\r\n\r\nIf your
    thesis is to examine blackletter and hate groups, show blackletter used in the
    many other ways it has been used as well.  Be careful of the self-fulfilling prophesy.
    \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-22 17:53:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'I recently came across a Hitler-era series of glossy German design magazines
    in an old paper sale, but unfortunatley decided the price was a bit steep, because
    they were very interesting. I particularly recall an article on the autobahn system,
    with lots of beautiful pictures of empty highways. The typographic layouts were
    justified-modernist, and the display typefaces were Futura Light all caps and
    blackletter. The whole effect was complex and very disconcerting, '
  created: '2006-10-22 18:06:04'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "\"Be careful of the self-fulfilling prophesy.\"\r\n\r\nOh man. This is exactly
    my impression from the beginning of the thread.\r\nRemember - the title is \"What
    is the connection...\" and not neutral \"Is there any connection...\"\r\n\r\nThis
    means, Thord, may be, is not searching if there is an interaction between blackletters
    and violance and Nazism, but its his theory and he now looks for references for
    his theory.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-22 18:28:07'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">If your thesis is to examine blackletter and hate groups, show blackletter
    used in the many other ways it has been used as well. \r\n\r\nHere, here! I'll
    drink to that Corona's all round! :-)"
  created: '2006-10-22 18:38:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">They all thought \u201Clovely\u201D and no one was thinking about Nazi fonts.\r\n\r\nAs
    I said, I think the association of blackletter and Naziism is very unfortunate.
    I am happy if it is fading. \r\n\r\n>Yeah, and officially anybody who drives over
    the speed limit gets a ticket.\r\n\r\nFalse analogy. Catching all speeders is
    impossible. Dispossessing all Jews of retail businesses with storefronts in Vienna
    was easy for the Nazis. Way easier than catching individual Jews, and of Jews
    they killed or drove out 99.5%. Making German lands 'Judenrein'--'cleansed of
    Jews'--was a top priority of the Nazi government. The idea that they couldn't
    find a Jewish storefront in the capital of Austria during seven years--1938-45--of
    systematic hunting and killing is absurd.   "
  created: '2006-10-22 18:45:41'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "In US is and was never a duty to announce after finding a new place to live.\r\nIn
    Germany and Austria such an announcement was and it is an absolutely duty. Maybe
    this information is unknown by some of the americans..\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-22 19:14:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">In US is and was never a duty to announce after finding a new place to live.\r\n\r\nunless
    you're are a foreigner or registered sex offender. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-22 19:59:08'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: ">In US is and was never a duty to announce after finding a new place to live.\r\n\r\nOr
    if you want to continue receiving your mail."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Si_Daniels
      picture: 110446
    body: 'or vote? '
    created: '2006-10-22 20:10:56'
  created: '2006-10-22 20:05:15'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Not if you're a foreigner, unless that's changed in the last few years.  I
    could move anywhere I wanted and not have to go register that change with INS.
    \ The IRS, and state licence registry, were informed, of course, but that would
    have made me just like a real citizen.\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-10-22 20:10:38'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Not if you\u2019re a foreigner, unless that\u2019s changed in the last few
    years. \r\n\r\nIt had always been the law, but only got enforced after 9/11.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.uscis.gov/graphics/howdoi/address.htm"
  created: '2006-10-22 20:14:07'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "No vote.  Taxation without representation.  :-(\r\n\r\n(OTOH, if you are
    a U.S. citizen but not a U.S. resident, you have to file with INS and, in most
    cases, pay U.S. taxes on your worldwide income.)\r\n\r\nL."
  created: '2006-10-22 20:14:42'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Well, registration is one more reason why I don't want to move south of the
    border again....
  created: '2006-10-22 20:16:59'
- author:
    name: Thord
  body: "To Chris. I have of course no intentions of writing a normative thesis. You
    seem to imply that I am suggesting graphic designers should not be able to choose
    whichever tools they wish. This couldn\u2019t be further from the truth. \r\n\r\nThere
    can be little doubt that there are many good examples of use of blakletter where
    there are no associations to violence or danger. But sticking to your analogy
    of tools, the same could be said of the knife. Most knives are designed for and
    used for peacefull purposes and I\u2019m certainly not afraid when I open my kitchen
    drawer. But this does not change the fact that a part of the nature of knives
    is that they are sometimes misused as a tool of violence. \r\n\r\nGood graphic
    design is good communication. When working with it you need to take into consideration
    how the public interprets the work. If not you will have no understanding of the
    effects of the tools that you use. This is why an understanding of peoples interpretations
    should be interesting to any graphic designer, no matter how mislead and ignorant
    they are. If my work, as a graphic designer, is misunderstood by the public I
    have failed, no matter how right my intentions are. \r\n"
  created: '2006-10-22 20:33:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well said.\r\n\r\n> If my work, as a graphic designer, is misunderstood by
    the public I have failed\r\n\r\nBut still, the important thing is to try.\r\nYoda
    was dead wrong on that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-22 20:41:18'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zurich_3697.jpg]\r\nZurich not so violent."
  created: '2006-10-22 20:57:21'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Well put Thord!
  created: '2006-10-22 20:58:04'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "BTW- The impression I have had a about mexico ( & south america ) and black
    letter is that  it has been seen as just another style for a long time. Lot's
    of stuff is set in it & it means more & more just 'mexican' or 'local' to them.
    \r\n\r\nCheck out this bus in Ecuador \r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/jono01/23542795/\r\n\r\nMaybe
    it started with beer halls started by Bavarian immigrants. If so they were probably
    meaning this beer is 'German'. I don't know for sure. But blackletter became normal
    & after a while contrasted with US type culture. I think that's why gangs in LA
    took up the blackletter. I don't think they had coolness or hardness envy for
    the hells angels or whatever. I think they were attempting to be seen as more
    Mexican. And then there is CA surf culture which adopted blackletter. Maybe because
    they were going to Mexico to surf. Betwteen the two cultural sources blackletter
    made it into Hawaiian graphic design where it's meaning seems to be again: local
    pride. The Hawaiian graphic designers are not being neo-nazi's. And where I live
    in Alaska we have big 4x4 trucks owned by native alaskans that have stickers in
    the back window that say 'native pride' in black letter. I can't say that this
    doesn't look a little odd to me. But that isn't the point. The point is how they
    read the meaning in the letter style. BTW - don't take my history too seriously.
    It's just my guesswork. One day I will get a shot of the sticker.\r\n\r\nAlso
    has anybody metioned the work of Cristina Paoli?\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/17496"
  created: '2006-10-22 22:07:23'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "interesting topic.\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com/print.htm\">Graphic
    Design, Melbourne</a>\r\n----------\r\n<a href=\"http://www.littlemischief.com\">Little
    Mischief</a>"
  created: '2006-10-22 23:01:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"You seem to imply that I am suggesting graphic designers should not be
    able to choose whichever tools they wish.\"\r\n\r\nI did not mean to imply that
    at all. I was just trying to ask that you be sure to include blackletter work
    that did not fall into the nazi/hate mould. This would tell more of the whole
    story and allow designers to choose type without being fearful of accusations
    of pro-nazi beliefs. There is a fine line between honest scholarly reporting of
    events and historical interpretations and feeding the conclusion more credence
    than it may deserve. I am only asking that you remain objective. That is all.\r\nYes,
    I agree with the knife analogy. I also think that a religious item (statue of
    Buddha or communion chalice) can be used as a weapon but I don't think we should
    give otherwise peaceable items the stigma of evil. My intension is to allow the
    use of blackletter or any other type style without stigma.  Let the designer be
    responsible for the total message they communicate.  If they do it badly, it is
    their fault not the typeface.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: I sure could use one of
    those fine Bavarian beers right now Si!"
  created: '2006-10-23 00:08:23'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Oh yeah, and I think the work of Amy Franceschini of Future Farmers in the
    middle 90s also took blackletter out of a mexican context & made it SF, CA hip.
  created: '2006-10-23 00:23:50'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "<em>You\u2019ve got that the wrong way round.</em>\r\n\r\nNick, what is uncivilized
    is your <em>ignorance</em>. Try to understand that there is most often great work
    being done in civil and un-civil efforts. Recognize and acknowledge those techniques
    that make the work effective - and learn from them. (In your case, the Nazi techniques
    of <em>how</em> to communicate.)\r\n\r\nDon't bury your head in the sand - as
    to what makes a work, or a body of work, effective (aka, doing kickarse work),
    ok?\r\n\r\nLearn from it's effectiveness, and use it in your own world - whatever
    world that maybe (?). And if that world runs up against our civilized values then
    we will deal with it - one way or another.\r\n\r\nLess is not more!\r\n\r\n\r\nHiro"
  created: '2006-10-23 17:04:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Learning is one thing, doing another.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-23 17:13:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Hrant, are you quoting Yoda again? ;-)
  created: '2006-10-23 17:35:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yoda after English grammar lessons, finally after 900 years, the little green
    FOB.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-23 17:39:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I agree with Hrant (and Nick): learn from both the good and the wicked, but
    direct your actions to promote the good. '
  created: '2006-10-23 17:51:20'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">learn from both the good and the wicked, but direct your actions to promote
    the good.\r\n\r\nAlso know when not to reveal your sources... \r\n\r\nClient:
    The flyer looks great, it will definitely help promote our plans to improve mass-transit
    in the city. It's a good cause as everyone agrees. \r\n\r\nDesigner: Thanks! I
    based it on some old Nazi propaganda flyers showing public works projects built
    using slave labor. Don't worry I replaced the picture of Hitler with a picture
    of your boss.\r\n\r\nClient: Oh!\r\n\r\nDesigner: Okay, how about a latte?\r\n\r\n
    \r\n"
  created: '2006-10-23 18:13:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Give_Blood_4570.jpg]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-23 20:54:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Thanks, Si and Chris :) The joys of typophile!
  created: '2006-10-23 22:03:48'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "When I read the subject of this thread I thought [[Steven Heller]] himself
    was asking the question. LOL.\r\n\r\nI grew up in So Cal (Carlsbad and Torrance).
    I'm not sure about the hispanic/chicano connection with blackletter (how it originated,
    etc) but it is not a gang thing. When you actually live among Mexican kids you
    actually start to realize they are not all gang bangers. (Trying my best not to
    get condescending on you, but I'm having a hard time.)\r\n\r\nNow, zoom out, and
    put it into context... In Mexico blackletter (or a handpainted variety) is used
    ubiquitously there (notably on the cabs). (And I was never attacked or even threatened
    by a cab driver there!\r\n\r\nI say let the Chicanos own blackletter! \xA1Vive
    blackletter!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/76192768_9146f5df4a_4507.jpg]\r\nTaxi
    in Puerto Vallarta. And it wasn't even a gang controlled part of the city!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/256273971_b4573109d9_6622.jpg]\r\nChicano
    art exhibit title from the de Young, San Francisco. I survived the whole exhibit
    without being stabbed!"
  created: '2006-10-23 23:32:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "When Heller asks such questions it's only so\r\nhe can promulgate his premeditated
    answers.\r\n\r\nBTW, this store opened recently in the Glendale Galleria:\r\nhttp://www.chicanostyle.com/our_stores.asp
    _\r\nAnd I bought this shirt from there:\r\nhttp://misnopales.com/t-shirts-carpul.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-24 00:11:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!! That shirt is a stitch Hrant!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-24 01:55:54'
- author:
    name: mnott
    picture: 111664
  body: "Blackletter: Type and National Identity \r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Blackletter-Identity-P-Shaw-Bain/dp/1568981252/sr=1-2/qid=1161722939/ref=sr_1_2/102-9569735-8988100?ie=UTF8&s=books"
  created: '2006-10-24 22:01:08'
- author:
    name: giljimenez
    picture: 109460
  body: "Skimming through, I read someone suggested that Fraktur was associated with
    facist Germany, but I don't believe this to be the case. In fact, the Nazi's rejected
    fraktur because of it's \"fractured\" appearance and what it represented; a break
    from the true German blackletter.\r\n\r\nTaken from <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antiqua-Fraktur_dispute\">wikipedia</a>:\r\n\r\n<strong>The
    \u201CNormalschrifterlass\u201D</strong>\r\n<em>\r\nThe Fraktur typefaces reached
    a particularly strong use during the time of the Nazism. After it had been initially
    publicised as being the only true \u201CGerman script\u201D, they were banned
    in a Schrifterlass (edict on script) as alleged Schwabacher Judenlettern (\u201CSchwabacher
    Jewish script\u201D).\r\n\r\nIt is supposed that the reason for this change of
    mind was that Antiqua would be more legible to those living in the occupied areas,
    since the Fraktur typefaces were no longer well known outside the countries of
    German language. This hypothesis is contested by the fact that the Nazis had been
    printing books, newspapers and miscellaneous texts destined for abroad in Antiqua
    for a long time. Therefore, they would have been able to print everything for
    the occupied areas in Antiqua without the need to change the use of typefaces
    in the German-speaking areas.\r\n\r\nIt is more likely that Adolf Hitler was the
    reason for the ban. He appeared to have a dislike for the Fraktur typeface, as
    demonstrated by a declaration made in the Reichstag in 1934...</em>"
  created: '2006-10-26 22:49:15'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "While I don't associate blackletter with Nazism (or even the NSDAP) at all,
    it is really silly to assume that others don't. I think that it can also border
    on the offensive to state that other people's opinions, especially on matters
    of life, death, interpretation, and even history do not matter or count. Debate
    people you disagree with, but please do not dismiss their views offhand.\r\n\r\nAt
    least in my opinion, I doubt that Judaism as a religion, or modern-day Jews as
    a group, automatically associate blackletter with violence. Below is an image
    from the new synagogue in Worms. Worms has a particularly sad history when it
    comes to Christian\u2013Jewish relations. Jews were slaughtered repeatedly over
    a millenium there, from the First Crusade (where they were some of the first victims)
    through to the 1940s. Yet, as you can see on this stone, they clearly don't have
    a problem with blackletter (or German either\u2026). Maybe they picked this gothic-style
    lettering because its forms, of all possible Latin variants, match Hebrew the
    best. This could be a good starting point for Hrant's blackletter history of Yiddish\u2026\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Worms-Synagogue-Inside_6295.png]"
  created: '2006-10-28 23:45:18'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Last but not least - here is shown what is the reality of the Nazi time in
    Germany: its gone.\r\nI do not like fastfood too much. But this is reason enough
    to order some Hamburgers.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1_3689.jpg]\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-29 16:21:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If it were gone you'd have sent ground troops to South Lebanon.\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/5342062.stm\r\n\r\nThe
    good news is that fading, it is.\r\nNot least thanks to the current behavior of
    Israel.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-29 16:58:42'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "In the german Charta of our Republic you can read that the german army is
    only allowed to protect Germany against enimies from outside Germany.\r\n\r\nIn
    the meanwhile Germany protects itself by sending soldiers to:\r\nAfghanistan,
    Congo, Bosnia, Lebanon. I don't know what they have to do there. My son will not
    go to this german army for sure.\r\n\r\nAnd Israel does not need Germany to protect
    them.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-29 18:33:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Georg, maybe that piece of paper is just that? You claim \"we\" don't understand
    Germany. I think you understand it even less than we do.\r\n\r\n> Israel does
    not need Germany to protect them.\r\n\r\nThen you should point out that Israel's
    position\r\nthat \"the UN is there to stop Hzballa\" is hogwash.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-29 19:04:56'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "hrant,\r\ndon't talk about politics, mh?\r\nThis is a typo forum and you
    are not the world police, mh?\r\nOr if - Uncle Sam needs you :-)\r\nJoin your
    army.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-29 19:55:59'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Was f\xFCr ein idiotischer und unh\xF6flicher Mensch das ist..\r\nNun ja..\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 16:05:45'
- author:
    name: miles
    picture: 110468
  body: "I suggest interviewing Gaahl of Gorgoroth, who may be an erudite spokesperson
    for alternative culture in Norway.\r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HU2Z7Q_FAyA"
  created: '2006-10-31 14:41:30'
- author:
    name: Scixx kicks
  body: "Dear Thord, \r\nwhat are the results of your essay? I\xB4m working on a quite
    related topic, i.e. the renaissance of blackletter in popular culture like fashion,
    design etc. My thesis is that this violant image has originally raised from its
    image as a Nazi Type, and that it is exactly this generally violant, extreme connotation
    which caused the notable comeback of black letters in mass culture (H&M T-shirts,
    MANGO shopping windows, etc.). I will argue that this phenomenon is to be seen
    in context with the commercialization of subcultural styles and symbols, for example
    tatoos or piercing (\"H&M-Punk\" or \"The end of Subculture\"). So this denazification
    of black letter (as some German typographs call it) or in the broader sense \"deradikalisation\",
    is not the cause but the effect of overstraining the very radikal connotation.
    \r\n\r\nI would like to read your essay, if you allow me to. Could you send it
    per email?\r\n\r\nKindly regards, Corinna"
  created: '2007-03-12 14:00:18'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: Have either of you found any really cool blackletter typefaces or even images
    of nice type to share with us? Maybe we could start a flikr account with cool
    results of unique and interesting blackletter samples...
  created: '2007-03-13 01:13:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Corinna, \r\n\r\nYour thesis sounds like it has good insights into the revival
    of Blackletter, as it has happened so far. It would be nice if you could post
    a link to your essay when you're done. "
  created: '2007-03-13 01:39:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://www.flickr.com/groups/blackletter_today/\r\n\r\nCool blackletter faces?
    Display: Sangue. The coolest.\r\nText: Fraktoer and Gotesk are nice, but still
    not good enough.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-13 04:32:22'
- author:
    name: Thord
  body: "Hi Corinna,\r\nInteresting topic for your thesis. I didn\u2019t go very much
    into the renaissance of blackletter. It seems like the fashion industry in particular
    has a healthy appetite for any cultural signs with a hint of danger. My impression
    is that the revival of blackletter has been a quite ephemeral one. Where I come
    from the blackletter-fashion is already over and fellow graphic designers will
    deny that they ever jumped on that bandwagon. It\u2019s a bit sad that such an
    important part of our culture should end up as a \u201Cfashion victim\u201D.\r\n\r\nMy
    thesis was written in Norwegian, but I could sum up a few of my points, that might
    be relevant to you. The history of blackletter is described pretty well in Blackletter:
    type and national identity. It gives you some insight into why blackletter ended
    up being \u201Cnazi type\u201D:\r\n\r\nFrom the outset, the opposition between
    blackletter and roman has been coloured by more momentous polarities: medievalism
    vs. modernity, Protestantism vs. Catholicism, Lutheran Pietism vs. Italian Humanism,
    German Romanticism vs. the French Enlightenment, the authority of the state vs.
    personal liberty and popular, nationalism vs. cosmopolitanism, mysticism vs. rationality.
    (Bain & Shaw 1998 : 11)\r\n\r\nThe formal qualities should also be considered.
    The sharp angular impression of some types of blackletter has aggressive connotations.
    I haven\u2019t been able to find scientific research on how this is perceived
    in typography but there are several examples on research conducted on more simple
    geometric shapes, for instance in Reading Images:\r\n\r\nThe triangle is angular,
    like the square \u2013 an element of the mechanical, technological order. But,
    unlike the square, the triangle especially when tilted is (a fused structure of)
    a participant and a vector, because it can convey directionality, point at things.
    (\u2026) Not surprisingly, glosses of the meanings of triangles in visual dictionaries
    reflect the dynamic quality. Triangles are a symbol of generative power and represent
    action, conflict, tension. (Kress & van Leeuwen 1996 : 236)\r\n\r\nAs many have
    pointed out in this thread there are several examples of use that has no apparent
    connection to the nazi associations affiliated with blackletter. There is however
    a more general characteristic with much of its use. Blackletter often seems to
    be seen as a sign of authority. This may be explained by its heritage from times
    when written language and print was reserved for people and institutions with
    power. As someone mentioned here earlier it seems like much of the use of blackletter
    in modern subcultures comes from an intention to gain or imply some sort of power,
    importance or \u201Cofficial-ness\u201D of some sort. But it is a washed-out discourse.
    Black-metal fans and rappers may want to seem dangerous and important, but the
    real institutions of power and authority in our society \u2013 the corporations
    and governments \u2013 have aesthetic preferences that reflects modern ideals
    of objectivity and rationality, so they choose Helvetica or similar neutral typefaces.\r\n\r\nIt
    was hard to get my thesis down to 20 pages, so it\u2019s impossible to break it
    down to a short post here. But I hope this was to some help to you.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-04 10:08:54'
- author:
    name: ladydeas
    picture: 112386
  body: Is it true that Blackletter has been banned from schools in LA?
  created: '2007-04-04 21:36:30'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: lol that would seem rediculous if it is true. Although in California i wouldn't
    doubt anything.
  created: '2007-04-05 17:02:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "What is the connection between the roman letter and violent / extreme culture?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/trajaninscription_6649.jpg]"
  created: '2007-04-05 17:20:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick, Perhaps guys like Caligula?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-05 19:12:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: One notable act of Trajan was the hosting of a three-month gladiatorial festival
    in the great Colosseum in Rome (the precise date of this festival is unknown).
    Combining chariot racing, beast fights and close-quarters gladiatorial bloodshed,
    this gory spectacle reputedly left 11,000 dead (mostly Jewish slaves and criminals,
    not to mention the thousands of ferocious beasts killed alongside them) and attracted
    a total of five million spectators over the course of the festival.
  created: '2007-04-05 19:45:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "IIRC, Trajan was notable for conquering Armenia and for exterminating the
    thriving Jewish community of Alexandria. The Romans were extremely cruel. One
    historian told me that nearly a quarter of the Roman empire had been killed getting
    the 'Pax Romana'. \r\n\r\nI do wonder whether there is any connection between
    the style of the Roman capitals and the imperial cruelty of Rome. I like to think
    the style was established before their imperial success, and is the product of
    good and humble scribes. But that might be just wishful thinking. Evidence of
    its neutrality is that it makes equally good movie titles for good and bad movies!"
  created: '2007-04-05 19:52:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I somehow think the kind of guy who is busy hacking off peoples heads with
    a sword isn't the same kind of guy who lovingly chisels a Roman S into marble.
    It could be though that if you were the \"chisler\" who misspeled the Emperor's
    name on a big hunk of marble, you might soon become Lion food at the next \"Festival\".
    Lends new meaning to the term \"Authors Alteration\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-05 20:48:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The Romans were extremely cruel.\r\n\r\nHuh, sounds vaguely familiar...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 15:27:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Aside from Pinky and the Brain, I can't think of one group who tried  taking
    over the World who was not cruel.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pinkybrain_5376.jpg]"
  created: '2007-04-09 15:55:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, admitting one's fault is the first step.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 16:17:54'
date: '2006-10-19 11:42:28'
title: What is the connection between blackletter and violent / extreme culture

---
