---
author:
  name: cviviani
body: "Hello everyone,\r\n\r\nalthough I have a great passion for typography, and
  have read many books (including elements of typographic style of course) I am not
  a professional.\r\n\r\nI work in the public sector. Everyone uses Times New Roman
  + Windows. I am trying to change that. A recent official report was produced on
  my Powerbook using Baskerville and Word 2004.\r\n\r\nBut I would like a more coherent
  approach, so the question is: which font should I try to introduce - at least in
  my office (15 people) - that will work smoothly on Windows 2000/XP and that is good
  for short memos (2-5 pages), letters, papers (10+ pages)? the version of Baskerville
  I used does not work on Win (besides the licensing problem).\r\n\r\nDo you have
  any advice on the format of the documents?\r\n\r\nThanks and best regards\r\n\r\nCarlo"
comments:
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Ciao Carlo, usa la font Palatino 11 o 12 punti ma stai attento all'interlinea\r\n(aumentala
    un po') e ai margini (la giustezza non deve mai essere eccessiva);\r\npuoi usare
    un corpo 9 per le note.\r\nhttp://www.kayskreations.net/fonts/fonttb.html"
  created: '2006-10-23 02:05:16'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I need to improve my Italian before we visit the Cinque Terra, but I think
    I agree with Alessandro: Palatino at 11 or 12 pt, right?  ;-) Personally, I like
    Palatino paired with Lucida Sans.\r\n\r\n(Although given a choice, I'd pair up
    Palatino with Optima....)\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-10-23 02:39:45'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "What's wrong with Georgia? Have you tried the 'ClearType' fonts? Why Baskerville?
    Who is your audience? What tone are your speaking to them in? Why? Is it more
    imoprtant that the documents work on screen or in print?\r\n\r\nIn general the
    trick will be geting a typeface you like in print & one which which is well hinted
    well for screen too. That reduces your number severely. PLUS and this is faustian
    part - the best typefaces in print are not going to match from screen to page
    all that well. In order to get type to go from screen to print and match well
    ( lines having the same # of characters - WYSIWYG etc.)  all kinds of compromises
    were made. Those compromises mean less lovely faces in print in general. \r\n\r\nI
    guess that you could call fontfont and ask them if any of their faces have been
    extensevely hinting now...\r\n\r\nBut really, I can't suggest anything too seriously
    because I don't know nearly enough about your goal."
  created: '2006-10-23 05:14:27'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "I have a feeling that cviviani is trying to find alternatives to the mainstay
    typefaces that are installed on Microsoft Office. Unfortunately, in a business,
    office, and public sector environment, if you want your documents to be consistent,
    there's very little in the way of straying from that frustratingly narrow selection.
    \r\n\r\nThe typefaces we use for various projects that require this kind of compatibility
    include Verdana, Trebuchet for screen and Powerpoint presentations; and serifed
    Times New Roman or Georgia for print. I'm loathe to say this, but as much as I
    limit Arial's presence by substituting Helvetica (whose Helvetica is anyone's
    guess), there's no escaping it sometimes in such environments.\r\n\r\nI've always
    tried getting Garamond to work, but even though it is packaged in with many Office
    programs, I've had problems. If I can get it to work, I also try to replace Book
    Antiqua with Palatino. \r\n\r\nThe United States government offices made it official
    that all documents were to be printed in Times New Roman 14pts (proof that most
    of the elected officials here are blind) instead of the previous Courier 12pts.
    I'd love to know what they decided on official line spacing..."
  created: '2006-10-23 05:54:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Luc(as) de Groot had some very nice faces - and I think some of them were
    hinted quite a lot - but they are not serifs much less Baskerville.
  created: '2006-10-23 07:49:12'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "Luc(as) de Groot does have some very nice typefaces. But you know what? I
    have a feeling none of his typefaces would be feasible in say a Powerpoint presentation
    'template' that goes from office to office.\r\n\r\nI think in this situation,
    aesthetics takes a back seat to ugly utility.\r\n\r\nIf we are only confining
    the typeface for an office of 15, I would say, introduce the font. But if these
    documents, Word, Powerpoint, etc need to be moved frequently from one place to
    the next with no guarantee that all the offices have this font installed, I'd
    recommend staying with the 'basics'."
  created: '2006-10-23 08:48:20'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: There is ALOT you can do with basic fonts if you take the time.  And it's
    worthwhile.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Solipsism
    body: "<cite>Re: There is ALOT you can do with basic fonts if you take the time.
      And it\u2019s worthwhile.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut of course. It can be argued that
      making Times New Roman sing is a much harder AND rewarding task. \r\n\r\nBut
      then again, I wasn't recommending TheSans was I?"
    created: '2006-10-23 15:57:55'
  created: '2006-10-23 09:22:58'
- author:
    name: cviviani
  body: "Thank you everyone for your useful (and prompt) comments.\r\n\r\nI think
    the suggestion of staying with the \"basics\" is the most realistic - although
    I'm not very happy with it.  I agree that the version of Garamond shipping with
    Word has problems, and most of all I don't like it.\r\n\r\nAudience - target of
    the documents vary, from the EU Commission to other Ministries, to my Minister.
    So the only ways to ensure consistency would be to use PDF or stick to the basic
    set. And PDF is not always suitable, unfortunately.\r\n\r\nI will give Georgia
    a try - anything to avoid TimesNewRoman! For sans, I will use Arial (but I would
    like Univers...). \r\n\r\nSo many beautiful fonts, and so little space to use
    them... what a pity!\r\n\r\nBest,\r\n\r\nCarlo\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-23 10:32:07'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I think the suggestion of staying with the \u201Cbasics\u201D is the
    most realistic - although I\u2019m not very happy with it.</em>\r\n\r\nHmmm. factors,
    factors, factors... If you have purchasing power, I would suggest licencing some
    type (what a novel idea!) that you like. Or, to find fonts that come bundled with
    your (Microsoft) software, visit this page: http://www.microsoft.com/typography/fonts/default.aspx."
  created: '2006-10-23 14:05:04'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: I completeley agree with the novelty history of Palatino and Paul d. Hunt
    !
  created: '2006-10-23 15:16:48'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: "In regard to ensuring consistency without knowing what fonts other groups
    have available, you don't necessarily have to use PDF if you're willing to and
    can use TrueType fonts. They can be embedded in Word and PowerPoint so that people
    without the fonts on their computer can at least open and view the files. Given
    the right font permission level, they could even edit the files. There's more
    information about embedding, and font embedding permission levels, at http://www.microsoft.com/typography/TrueTypeEmbedding.mspx,
    with a link to the Microsoft Font Properties Extension. The extension works with
    any version of Windows from 95 to XP and lets you see the font's embedding permission,
    which can be hard to discover otherwise.\r\n\r\nIn Word or PowerPoint, you set
    the embedding option by going to Tools > Options > Save > Embed TrueType fonts.
    In Word, this stays in effect until changed back; in PowerPoint, it only affects
    the current document. You can also change Word's normal.dot template this way.\r\n
    \r\nNote that Word and PowerPoint will only embed TrueType fonts, not PostScript
    or OpenType fonts with an OTF extension. Embedding OpenType fonts with a TTF extension
    seems to work, though. We don't use Macs, so I can't speak to Mac--Windows compatibility
    of embedded fonts.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-23 20:24:24'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "Yeah, embedding is one way to go, but we've found it difficult to teach clients
    how to embed fonts on their own. Unless they've got people policing the standards
    and guidelines set, the rules and regulations ALWAYS get violated by someone in
    the company.\r\n\r\nI think somewhere along the line, and this was probably a
    breach of license and ethics, a client wanted to force the issue of using their
    fonts. We tried converting Postscript fonts to Truetype via Fontographer to embed
    into the documents and it didn't work. Any explanations why this might be the
    case?\r\n\r\nAnd Mac to PC Powerpoint compatibility is pretty troublesome."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Gus Winterbottom
    body: Sorry, no clue on the PostScript to TrueType conversion. I'd expect that
      as long as Windows recognizes it as a TrueType font and installs it, Word would
      accept it, too, unless the embedding permission was set to Restricted. Were
      you able to use the font at all, or just not embed it?
    created: '2006-10-24 00:46:10'
  created: '2006-10-23 22:18:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "One other thing: in your admirable desire for typographic distinction, don't
    go overboard. Choose something different but modest and robust. For one thing,
    a Baskerville that looks good on office memos isn't a good Baskerville. I might
    consider Charter.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: cviviani
    body: "I agree - I try not to exceed in enthusiasm... I would also have liked
      Adobe Caslon but in word it's not easy to use, or Minion (same problem in Windows).\r\n\r\nBaskerville
      was a choice for this document in order to reduce the number of pages (which
      was a specific need) while mantaining readability. Baskerville 11 (MacosX version,
      I was not able to understand to which foundry it belongs) saved 10 pages with
      respect to TimesNR 12. I didn't know Charter, will explore.\r\n\r\nOh, and by
      the way: anyone knows why Filosofia doesn't work in Word?\r\n\r\nbest,\r\n\r\nC"
    children:
    - author:
        name: Gus Winterbottom
      body: "I've been down a somewhat similar road, trying to find an alternative
        to TNR. I do mostly technical documentation and new business proposals with
        extensive engineering and scientific content. The problem I find is that a
        lot of the classical book fonts -- Bembo, Baskerville, Century -- just don't
        seem appropriate when used for our content. I can't say exactly why that is;
        maybe \"too bookish\" and \"not technical enough.\" I also tried a number
        of modern fonts from foundries like DTL, FontFont, H&FJ, and so on. There
        again, beautiful fonts that just don't seem appropriate. Or, more probably,
        I'm just too conservative. But if I am, then so is my audience.\r\n\r\nI'm
        also constrained by the absolute need to embed fonts in Word and PDF documents
        for delivery to customers. That means TrueType or OpenType in TTF format.
        It also lets out fonts like Mercury that I'd kill to use. Mercury is already
        expensive enough, and there's no way I could convince management to shell
        out the additional money for an embedding license when the Windows core fonts
        are \"free and just as good.\" For other fonts, there's no embedding possible
        at all.\r\n\r\nAnother part of the problem is that the customers often specify
        \"12 point TNR or equivalent.\" Many fonts -- Sabon, for example -- set a
        half point or more larger than TNR, so 11.5 point Sabon is about the same
        as 12 point TNR in terms of characters per line and page. So then I have the
        problem of convincing a government agency that 11.5 is really the same as
        12.\r\n\r\nBottom line is that fonts like Granjon, Kis, and Janson Text seem
        to be the best compromise. Sometimes Caslon seems like it's OK, sometimes
        not. Times Ten is perhaps best of all for my situation, but there I have the
        11.5 versus 12 problem."
      created: '2006-10-24 22:07:10'
    created: '2006-10-24 11:09:16'
  created: '2006-10-23 22:30:08'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: 'We were able to use the font in the program, but couldn''t embed it with
    any documents. '
  created: '2006-10-24 01:39:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Be very careful about quick conclusions concerning economy. Unless you have
    a mandated point size and you want to \"cheat\" by using a font that's unusually
    large or small on the body (which roughly translates to a font with a large or
    small x-height) most of any savings in space will come at the expense of readability.
    Times for example is actually very well honed to saving space, in \"normal\" typesetting
    situations. Baskerville tends to be more elegant but also less efficient in then
    end, once you facor in apparent size, which is strongly -although not completely-
    correlated to readability. Generally, the more elegant a font, the better it is
    for larger sizes.\r\n\r\n> anyone knows why Filosofia doesn\u2019t work in Word?\r\n\r\nIt's
    because Filosofia doesn't work in any app, really.  ;-)\r\nYou don't want a Didone
    for text.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-24 15:58:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Audience - target of the documents vary, from the EU Commission to other
    Ministries, to my Minister. \r\n\r\nThis limits your options further as I assume
    you need to support all the EU languages and as the EU is expanding that includes
    a few characters that aren't even in the WGL4 glyph set.\r\n\r\n>Everyone uses
    Times New Roman + Windows. I am trying to change that. \r\n\r\nI'd leave that
    to Apple if I were you, they have a larger budget and can achieve this goal with
    some \"humorous\" TV advertisements and maybe some magazine ads. I\u2019d be inclined
    to work in the same environment (same limitations, same printers, same fonts,
    same hardware) as your team, which means producing the templates and such using
    a Windows machine. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2006-10-24 16:19:51'
- author:
    name: jamiemeyer
  body: "\"We tried converting Postscript fonts to Truetype via Fontographer to embed
    into the documents and it didn\u2019t work.\"\r\n\r\nSolipsism, did you check
    the permission flags in the font itself (e.g. \"Restricted license embedding\"
    and \"Editable embedding\" and so forth)?\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-24 18:43:33'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "Hmm... I don't think that crossed anyone's mind to check. This was a client
    from a couple years ago. Now-a-days, I try to avoid Powerpoint work if I can.\r\n\r\nBut
    I'll keep this in mind should this problem present itself again..."
  created: '2006-10-24 20:24:19'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: 'Winterbottom: Have you glanced at the technical and scientific typesetting
    that comes from the publishers Springer Wien? Some of it is quite tastefully done,
    some using TeX.'
  created: '2006-10-24 23:18:53'
- author:
    name: Geo Ben
    picture: 111945
  body: "or.....\r\n\r\navoid the entire mishigas and toss yer MS Office product and
    replace it with Open Office Suite, a complete office suite in a single package
    (no 'pro' version). Open Source, free, faster, simpler, completely compatible
    with MS word products. Comes with a nice selection of fonts including my own favorite
    for everyday serif roman... Gentium; also Open source, also Free (with apologies
    to all those that find the 'F' word offensive). No licensing crappola. \r\n\r\ngeo."
  created: '2006-10-25 00:25:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Ben, not sure if your suggestion is serious, but as these guys have already
    licensed Office (with tax payers money), why would they ditch the product just
    to pick up Gentium and a bunch of Ray Larabie fonts they can download for free
    anyway? Also apart from Gentium how many of the Open Office fonts support a pan-european
    character set?
  created: '2006-10-25 03:05:06'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "Specifically regarding font embedding in Powerpoint and Word, in my experience
    it works within Powerpoint but can be unreliable within Word.\r\n\r\nBut in short
    it isn't a great solution and raises as many problems as it solves. \r\n\r\nFor
    example, what happens when an external user copies text set in your embedded font
    from one document to another they've created themselves, also with embedding turned
    on? (Not a rhetorical question, I did a load of testing ages ago and can't remember!)\r\n\r\nAlso,
    given that you don't have a choice of which fonts you embed, you can easily end
    up with massive files (eg. full Arial Unicode font is 22Mb although there is some
    compression). This is compounded when documents have been edited by several parties
    with copying and pasting from various sources, you can end up with many redundant
    fonts included.\r\n\r\nThere also is a suspicious lack of documentation available
    on the nitty-gritty of how it actually works with regard to the different levels
    of embedding permissions, and it doesn't seem to have been updated for many years,
    which is why it doesn't work with OTF.\r\n\r\nMany large organisations have a
    two-tier font policy within their VI -- Frutiger for \"pro\" use, or if you can
    deliver as PDF; Arial for MS Office use, etc.\r\n\r\nI would expect MS have come
    up with something as part of XPS, their \"PDF-killer\", but haven't looked into
    it..."
  created: '2006-10-25 11:50:48'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: "Solipsism: Thank you for the suggestion. I hadn't specifically looked at
    Springer Wein before, but I will now.\r\n\r\nGeo Ben: I think your suggestion
    was intended for cviviani and not me, but switching to OpenOffice, in and of itself,
    wouldn't solve any of the issues I have. Plus, many customers specifically require
    Microsoft Word format.\r\n\r\nelliot100: I agree embedding isn't a panacea; I
    only mentioned it as a possibility. Most fonts aren't as big as Arial Unicode;
    when I have a 40 MB Word document, which mine run to, the additional overhead
    of 100K or so in fonts is hardly noticeable. Also, you don't have to embed the
    full font; there's an option to only embed the characters in use, but this does
    make it harder for someone downstream to edit. However, our customers don't touch
    documents after we deliver them, so this isn't an issue in my case. Re cutting
    and pasting, I'd have to experiment with fonts having Installable and Editable
    permissions, but I'm pretty sure that if the permission is Print and Preview,
    the pasted-in text loses its original font and assumes whatever font is in effect
    in the target document. In regard to having a lot of fonts that are only used
    for a few characters or lines of text, the solution would be to apply or reapply
    styles and make the unnecessary fonts go away, as Word only embeds fonts actually
    in use.\r\n\r\n(Later edit) I seem to have somewhat caused a hijack of the original
    thread, so perhaps any further technical discussion of embedding fonts in Word
    should be moved to a new topic."
  created: '2006-10-25 20:53:45'
date: '2006-10-23 00:09:04'
node_type: forum
title: fonts and design for official documents

---
