---
author:
  name: satya
  picture: 111785
body: "ONLY QUESTIONS,  NOT THE ANSWERS! :)\r\n______________________________________________________________________________\r\n\r\nHello
  Typophiles,\r\n\r\nIts a bit different kind of thread but the only way can learn
  something new.\r\n\r\nMy final jury(exams) of this semester is on next Monday and
  they(jury members) can ask me anything related to the publication and typography.
  Not much of theory but technical and the general terms used in publication and the
  random questions related to typography.\r\n\r\nI found lots of rare terms people
  don't know and I would like to know them too. Yesterday someone had asked me what
  does \"pangram\" means? and I had no idea what he was talking about. I think being
  a design student i must know all these basic terminology.\r\n\r\nPlease ask me questions
  as much as you can. Anything related to typography/publication or basic graphic
  design. Ask something which you feel I would not be able to answer. Cause that way
  i will try myself to find them out and will learn more in the process. Kind of a
  revision of the course.\r\n\r\nThanks in advanced\r\n\r\n\r\nsatya\r\nstudent, graphic
  design\r\nNID, India\r\n\r\nPS: Please don't answer my questions until unless i
  request for them."
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What was a Ludlow used for?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: emzi26
    body: hello! maybe u can help me 2 then! Please could you tell me any other typefaces
      you are aware of that were made in 1950 other than Herman Zapfs Palatino????
    created: '2006-10-31 12:29:56'
  created: '2006-10-23 13:15:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What is the most common number of pages in a signature?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-23 13:19:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What are the advantages or disadvantages of using multiple columns in a publication?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-23 13:20:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What is creep and how should a designer allow for it in publication design?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-23 13:22:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What is the name of a commonly used organizing structure in publication design
    and what are its merits?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-23 13:24:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "When defining vertical space between paragraphs and subheads, what factor
    is key in your decision (particularly on multi-column layouts)?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-23 13:28:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "When laying out a publication, what would you consider to be the smallest
    visual unit, a page or a two-page spread? Why?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-23 13:29:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "In hyphenation and justification, what are the goals of the typographer?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-23 13:32:13'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "<cite>What was a Ludlow used for? </cite>\r\n\r\n>>\r\nIts was a hot metal
    typesetting system(machine), used in letterpress printing for headline size type
    14 point or above.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-23 13:32:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What advantages over previous specifications has OpenType brought to type
    design and usage?\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nI'll shut up now and give someone else
    a chance :-)\r\nBTW, this is a good idea for a way to study! I admire that you
    don't want the answers.  This shows your initiative willingness to look for answers."
  created: '2006-10-23 13:38:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yes! Do you know how it worked?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-23 13:39:25'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "No..i dunno the histoty of Ludlow. plz tell me more abt this...till then
    am finding answers for other questions......\r\n\r\nChris, thanks a lot for your
    time and the questions...I'll try my best to answer them as soon as possible.."
  created: '2006-10-23 13:49:09'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: Ok chris..plz don't answer for now that how this worked..let me findout myself..I'll
    ask u if i didnt get the answer.
  created: '2006-10-23 13:51:25'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: ">><cite>What is the most common number of pages in a signature?</cite>\r\n\r\nsignature
    are generally printed in 8, 16 or 32 page groupings.\r\n\r\n\r\n>><cite>What are
    the advantages or disadvantages of using multiple columns in a publication?</cite>\r\n\r\nAdvantages:
    its easier and faster to read.(specially left justified)\r\ndisadvantages: can't
    use in the web based publications.\r\n**am searching for disadvantages >>\r\n\r\n\r\n>><cite>What
    is creep and how should a designer allow for it in publication design?</cite>\r\n\r\nIn
    a saddle stitched booklet the bulk of the paper causes the inner pages to extend
    or creep further out than the outer pages when folded. When trimmed the inner
    pages are narrower than the outer pages, counteracting the creep.\r\n\r\nTotal
    pages in book, divided by 4 (for each 4 pager), times paper thickness. Take that
    number, and divide it by the number of flat sheets in your book. This number will
    be quite small, but will represent the amount that you should adjust each page\u2019s
    outside margin, as you get closer to the center of the booklet. This works in
    most cases but using a folded, drilled, dummy of the actual job stock is best.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-23 14:45:19'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "What is the defining character for a Venetian Serif?\r\nWhat is the difference
    between an em and a pica em?\r\n\r\nTim\r\n\r\nAre these the kind of questions
    you need?"
  created: '2006-10-23 14:48:51'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "yeah Timd they wouldnt ask me regarding typefaces identity but its Ok...I'll
    have a cause to search.\r\nyes! Ask they are fine...\r\n\r\nI'll sit whole night
    and will give answer to each and every question posted here.\r\n\r\nthanks"
  created: '2006-10-23 14:56:24'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "<cite>What is the defining character for a Venetian Serif?\r\n>>\r\n\r\nCharacteristic
    for Venetian typefaces are:\r\n> Inclined axis of the letter to the left (see
    o and b)\r\n> Upper wedge-shaped serifs of the minuscules (see b)\r\n> Rounded
    transitions between main strokes and (bracketed) serifs\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/venetian_3658.gif]\r\n\r\n.\r\n.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>What
    is the difference between an em and a pica em?\r\n>>\r\n\r\nem: a unit of measure
    equal to the width of the capital letter M in a particular font\r\nPica em: a
    linear unit (1/6 inch)"
  created: '2006-10-23 15:37:55'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "I don't know nearly as much as Chris or Tim, but I'll give it a shot:\r\n\r\nWhat
    is the origin of the term \"leading\"?\r\nWhat are the differences between a grotesque,
    geometric, and humanist sans serif?\r\nWhat are the factors that can determine
    a typeface's color on a page?"
  created: '2006-10-23 15:54:19'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">What is the defining character for a Venetian Serif?\r\nsloping bar on the
    lowercase e\r\nThe other characteristics are generally correct especially the
    stress but any sloping bar on a seriffed e is a Venetian.\r\n\r\n>Pica em: a linear
    unit (1/6 inch)\r\nor 12 points\r\n\r\n>em: a unit of measure equal to the width
    of the capital letter M in a particular font\r\nan em is equal to the height of
    the typeface, so, for 6pt type the em is a square 6pts by 6pts, it is only approximately
    the width of M.\r\n\r\nSo the difference is that ems are a sliding scale wheras
    pica ems are a set unit of measure.\r\n\r\nDon't be discouraged, my advice is
    to try to take in a little each day rather than stay up all night, but each to
    his own:)\r\n\r\nIn what kind of type alignment might one expect to find rivers?\r\n\r\nWhat
    might you call a block of type that has a vertical margin on the right and not
    on the left?\r\n\r\nIf you were asked to set type 12pt solid how much leading
    would you need?\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-23 16:43:41'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "12 page signatures are fairly common too - at least in art book publishing.
    Further to this question, it's good to know that you can have (with 16 page sigs)
    an odd 4 or an odd 8, but with 12 page sigs you usually have an odd 6.\r\n\r\nDefine
    folio, running foot.\r\n\r\nWhat are the most common elements in the frontmatter
    and backmatter of a book and in what order do they appear?\r\n\r\nIn typesetting
    what is a ladder? How can you avoid it?"
  created: '2006-10-23 17:20:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Prefab questions only work in citizenship exams and stuff.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-23 17:36:27'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Just a note on creep:\r\nWhile knowing how to account for creep may be essential
    for hand-made books, these days imposition software adjsuts for creep automatically.
    I'm not suggesting that folks shouldn't know about this issue, just that it's
    likely important to be clear that someone designing a book with ten 32-page signatures
    does not have to adjust each and every page margin (either manually or with Master
    pages) to account for creep, as it is generally handled by the printer."
  created: '2006-10-23 19:48:48'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> I\u2019m not suggesting that folks shouldn\u2019t know about this issue,
    just that it\u2019s likely important to be clear that someone designing a book
    with ten 32-page signatures does not have to adjust each and every page margin
    (either manually or with stylesheets) to account for creep, as it is generally
    handled by the printer.\r\n\r\nYes, but it is important to design knowing that
    the software will be adjusting for the creep, so any elements in the gutter will
    be affected."
  created: '2006-10-23 21:08:47'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "Satya:\r\n\r\nI fear we are giving you a lot of work. But I'll jump on this
    bandwagon...\r\n\r\nWhat is the definition of \"Justification\" as it applies
    to typography, and can a column of type be called \"Left Justified\"?"
  created: '2006-10-23 23:30:46'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "A few diacriticals for you...\r\nWhat is a macron?\r\nWhat is a breve?\r\nWhat
    is a cedilla?\r\nWhat is a caron?\r\nWhat is a circumflex?\r\nWhat is an diaeresis/umlaut?\r\nWhat
    is a grave accent? (it's not a wreath ;-)\r\nWhat is an acute accent? (it's not
    from Brooklyn ;-)\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\n------------------------------------------------------"
  created: '2006-10-23 23:44:47'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "Name:\r\n3 important British typographers and some of their faces\r\n3 important
    Italian typographers and some of their faces\r\n3 important French typographers
    and some of their faces\r\n3 important Swiss typographers and some of their faces\r\n3
    important American typographers and some of their faces\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\n------------------------------------------------------"
  created: '2006-10-23 23:47:13'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "wow!!Lots of new things here...\r\nIm having fun finding these answers..\r\nI've
    already learnt a lots of new things...\r\nkeem em coming....\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-24 01:18:16'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "What is the Golden Ratio ?\r\n\r\nWhat is the Typographer\u2019s Case ?\r\n\r\nWhat
    is a Bleed ?\r\n\r\nWhat is a Mark Up ?\r\n\r\nWhat is ASCII ?\r\n\r\nWhat is
    a Masthead ?\r\n\r\nWhat is a Font ?"
  created: '2006-10-24 02:37:10'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: '''Cause I''m evil: discuss historic calligraphic and cultural influences
    upon modern Indian typography.'
  created: '2006-10-24 05:35:52'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Wow. Great thread. Satya, you really know how to pick 'em. Come and be a
    student with us in NZ  : )\r\n\r\nBut first:\r\n\r\nDraw a diagram to explain
    the following type terminology: \r\nSerif\r\nStroke\r\nCounter\r\nKern\r\nBaseline\r\nx-height\r\nCapital
    Height\r\nDescender\r\nAscender\r\nArm\r\nCrossbar\r\nApex\r\nBowl\r\nTerminal\r\n\r\nWhat
    does the acronym u&lc mean?\r\n\r\nWhich case would you expect find in a Titling
    Font?\r\n\r\nWhat basic rule is observed in the division of words for end-of-line
    hyphenation in English language typesetting?\r\n\r\nFor copy counting purposes,
    what is the average length of a word in English language typesetting?\r\n\r\nHow
    might this change with academic and scientific texts?\r\n\r\nWhat is meant by
    'casting off'? (...not a question about fishing)\r\n\r\nWhy do typesetters charge
    higher rates for tabular matter?\r\n\r\nName the style of numerals best suited
    to tabular setting.\r\n\r\nAs a rule of thumb, how is optimal line length calculated?\r\n\r\nDescribe
    what you understand by the term 'page yield'?\r\n\r\nHow does this relate to the
    'extent' of a publication?\r\n\r\nDiagram and define six common proofreaders'
    marks.\r\n\r\nWhen is it appropriate to use an ampersand? (um, we seem to have
    had that one out already)\r\n\r\nWhat would you expect to find in a colophon?\r\n\r\nGive
    the order of textual marks you would use to show four descending levels of footnote.\r\n\r\nDefine
    the terms widow and orphan as they relate to typesetting. Why are they said to
    be undesirable? How could you avoid them?\r\n\r\nBest of luck with your studies."
  created: '2006-10-24 07:05:07'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "\"which are the best books on typography which every typography student MUST/MUST/MUST
    have?\r\n\r\nAnd why?"
  created: '2006-10-24 09:09:34'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "&lt; jury member >\r\n\r\nYe must answer me these questions three, ere the
    other side ye see!\r\n\r\n&lt;/ jury member >\r\n\r\nGood luck!"
  created: '2006-10-24 19:51:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Satya,\r\nLet us know how the exam went! We are all rooting for you!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-24 20:18:23'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "still 6 more days to go..its on next monday 30th october.. :)\r\nI havent
    studied that much in my whole semester..that am studying now..lol..its fun.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-24 20:25:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It should be fun studying a subject you love! \r\nThen again, I hated studying
    statistics and economics when I was your age (needlesss to say, these subjects
    I did not love) :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-24 20:34:35'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "<cite>What advantages over previous specifications has OpenType brought to
    type design and usage?\r\n\r\n>>\r\nOpenType offers several compelling advantages:
    \r\n\u2022 A single, cross-platform font file that can be used on both Macintosh
    and Windows platforms \r\n\u2022 An expanded character set based on the international
    Unicode encoding standard for rich linguistic support \r\n\u2022 Advanced typographic
    capabilities related to glyph positioning and glyph substitution that allow for
    the inclusion of numerous alternate glyphs \u2014 such as old-style figures, small
    capitals and swashes \u2014 in one font file \r\n\u2022 A compact font outline
    data structure for smaller font file sizes \r\n\u2022 OpenType is natively supported
    in Windows 2000 \r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>What is the origin of the term \u201Cleading\u201D?\r\n\r\n>>\r\nLeading
    (pronounced ledding) is the measurement of space between lines of type. The origin
    of the word \"leading\" dates to early days of typography when lead type was used.
    Blank pieces of lead were used between rows as spacers.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>In what
    kind of type alignment might one expect to find rivers?\r\nIn full/forceful justified
    text..\r\n\r\n\r\n>>\r\nIn full/forceful justified text..\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>If
    you were asked to set type 12pt solid how much leading would you need?\r\n\r\n>>\r\nGenerally
    it should be +2, means it should be 12+2 pt = 14pt lead..but it also depends on
    what typeface and where are you using.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>In typesetting what is
    a ladder? How can you avoid it?\r\n\r\n>>\r\nladder like structure in a paragraph..like
    this\r\nXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\r\nXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\r\nXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\r\nXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\r\nXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\r\nXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXxXX\r\nXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX\r\n\r\n..proper
    returns can avoid this.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>What is the definition of \u201CJustification\u201D
    as it applies to typography, and can a column of type be called \u201CLeft Justified\u201D?\r\n\r\n>>\r\nIn
    typesetting, alignment is the horizontal positioning and alignment of text or
    images within a line, typically relative to a column. \r\nNo a column can have
    more than one kind of justification in itself.\r\n(not sure of this answer)\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>What
    is a Bleed ?\r\n\r\n>>\r\nBleed is a printing term that refers to printing that
    goes to the edge of the sheet after trimming. Bleeds generally are 1/8 of an inch
    from where the cut is to be made. \r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>What is ASCII ?\r\n\r\n>>\r\nASCII
    is an acronym for American Standard Code for Information Interchange. It is a
    widely used standard for encoding text documents on computers. Usually when the
    term \"ASCII\" is used, it is describing a text document. If a file is described
    as ASCII text, this means you can view the contents of the file, change it with
    an editor, or print it with a printer. It does not contain any special embedded
    control characters.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>What is a Masthead ?\r\n\r\n>>\r\nOn the
    Internet, a masthead is a graphic image or text title at the top of a Web page
    that identifies the Web site and, sometimes, the particular section of the site.
    In addition to the name of the Web site, a masthead could include other elements
    such as images, text, or navigational links. The Web site masthead was named after
    a similar feature of newspapers and magazines, which in turn got its name from
    the top of a mast on a ship.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>What is a Font ?\r\n\r\n>>\r\nA
    collection of all the characters of a typeface in one size and one style is called
    a font. This includes caps and lowercase, numerals, punctuation marks, and any
    special characters contained in the typeface, such as symbols or ligatures.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>What
    does the acronym u&lc mean?\r\n\r\n>>\r\nU&LC  stands for Upper and Lower Case
    (International Journal of Typographics)\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>Which case would you
    expect find in a Titling Font?\r\n\r\n>>\r\nTitling fonts are type designs that
    have been specifically created for use in larger point sizes or display settings.
    They are usually all\u2013caps.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>What is meant by \u2018casting
    off\u2019? \r\n\r\n\r\n>>\r\nA calculation to determine how much space typeset
    copy will take up.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>Name the style of numerals best suited to
    tabular setting.\r\n\r\n>>\r\nArabic numeral\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>As a rule of
    thumb, how is optimal line length calculated?\r\n\r\n>>\r\nIdeally it should be
    35--70 characters including spaces\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>Define the terms widow and
    orphan as they relate to typesetting. Why are they said to be undesirable? How
    could you avoid them?\r\n\r\n\r\n>>\r\nA \"widow\" is the last line of a paragraph
    that appears alone at the top of the next page, and an \"orphan\" is the first
    line of a paragraph that appears alone at the bottom of a page. Widow and orphan
    settings are usually set for a minimum of two lines.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n...............\r\nStill
    there are lots of questions left...will post their answers..soon\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-24 20:53:24'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "My father wanted to \r\nmake me a doctor..LOL. \r\nguess what if i was a
    doctor?;) "
  created: '2006-10-24 20:55:33'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "<cite>Draw a diagram to explain the following type terminology:\r\nSerif\r\nStroke\r\nCounter\r\nKern\r\nBaseline\r\nx-height\r\nCapital
    Height\r\nDescender\r\nAscender\r\nArm\r\nCrossbar\r\nApex\r\nBowl\r\nTerminal\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n>>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dia_4380.jpg]\r\n.\r\nKern::Path
    that goes outside the body of the character"
  created: '2006-10-24 21:02:13'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: plz correct if there is anything wrong in the answers..
  created: '2006-10-24 21:04:54'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "\"Name the style of numerals best suited to tabular setting.\"\r\n\r\nJajaja...
    ;) not seen a tabular setting with roman numerals for a while.\r\n\r\nThe answer
    would be tabular figures, which are all designed and spaced to occupy the same
    space.\r\n\r\nSee:\r\n\r\n123 456 7890\r\n118 719 0110\r\n\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-10-24 21:13:45'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "<cite>Diagram and define six common proofreaders\u2019 marks.\r\n\r\n>>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ss_4034.jpg]"
  created: '2006-10-24 21:20:25'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Go Satya go!! My students have a test tomorrow so they are feeling the pressure
    with you... they too, probably have not studied quite this hard all semester.
    Wonder why??! ; )\r\n\r\nI think it's a good question and answer on the OpenType,
    also the proofreaders' marks, BUT...\r\n\r\nHector is right about the tabular
    (not arabic) figures btw. \r\n\r\nI notice that you say <em>...set type 12pt solid
    how much leading would you need?\r\n\r\n>> Generally it should be +2, means it
    should be 12+2 pt = 14pt lead..but it also depends on what typeface and where
    are you using.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is not correct; you need to find an accurate definition
    of 'set solid'.\r\n\r\nAs for <em>In typesetting what is a ladder?</em> Patty,
    can you tell us if this is a term interchangeable with 'river(s)'? I only ask
    because that's how it read to me; is Satya's answer correct or should he revise
    it? \r\n\r\nOn the 'naming of parts' diagram I see no definition for 'apex' and
    think you should look at the relationship between T and h for a way of illustrating
    'kern'.\r\n\r\nI hope other people will have feedback for you \u2013 as Chris
    says, we're rooting for you."
  created: '2006-10-25 02:15:39'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "A ladder is not the same as a river and I assume you are referring to the
    right side of the setting which, in this case, is not correct, although the solution
    you offer is partly correct.\r\n\r\nBest wishes here as well.\r\nTim\r\n\r\n<em>Edit:
    Apologies for jumping in here Patty, I thought timezones might make feedback slow</em>"
  created: '2006-10-25 08:50:32'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "A little bit out of prepress history?\r\n\r\nDo you know the printing height
    of letterpress?\r\nThere are two different heights, the english-american one and
    a german one. (some more, but I guess these two are the most important ones).\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-25 13:18:19'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: 'Great way to study. Certainly more fun than quizzing yourself. Just a suggestion
    to enhance retention: write answers in your own words rather than copying and
    pasting snippets you find on the web. This way you force yourself to actually
    process the information.'
  created: '2006-10-25 16:16:16'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "<cite>Great way to study. Certainly more fun than quizzing yourself. Just
    a suggestion to enhance retention: write answers in your own words rather than
    copying and pasting snippets you find on the web. This way you force yourself
    to actually process the information.\r\n\r\nErik, thanks for the suggestion. I'll
    do that now. And that way ill involve myself more into the answer. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-25 17:19:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Georg, nice flag.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-25 17:26:07'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "<em>A ladder is not the same as a river and I assume you are referring to
    the right side of the setting which, in this case, is not correct, although the
    solution you offer is partly correct.</em>\r\n\r\nNow I get it. Good clue - thanks
    Tim.\r\n\r\nThe Ken Bessie question is probably the best one in the thread, but
    perhaps it's an essay question rather than something for a (quick) verbal answer.
    Maybe a keeper for Satya's further studies?"
  created: '2006-10-25 22:53:54'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "Sorry Im guessing the word \"ladder\"..but is it something related to centre
    alignment?\r\nstructure like this.........\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ladder_6584.jpg]\r\n.\r\n.\r\nPlz
    tell me whats a ladder...I never heard this word before."
  created: '2006-10-26 08:37:21'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "A ladder is when the same word (or in some cases the same pair of letters*)
    appear at the beginning or end of consecutive lines (especially justified text
    in the case of the end of a line) forming a repeating shape, often occurs with
    shorter words like the, to etc. the solution is to use a soft return to turn over
    a word to break up the pattern.\r\n\r\nTim\r\n*the pair of letters is more of
    a concern with display text"
  created: '2006-10-26 11:41:35'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "thanks tim.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-26 13:26:12'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Yes, hrant, its the flag of Preussen.\r\nI believe in it.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-26 14:08:58'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "What's a ladder?\r\nDownload Flowers and ladders right from here:\r\nhttp://www.crauswords.com/flowers/FL-smple.pdf\r\nAll
    the Best"
  created: '2006-10-26 14:39:17'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "<cite>What is the Typographer\u2019s Case ?</cite>\r\n.\r\n.\r\n> <strong>Typographer's
    Case</strong>\r\n= Typographer's Job Case \r\n= California Job Type Case \r\n=
    A wooden case containing all the main characters (lead made) for   text setting.
    It was first introduced in San Francisco.\r\n.\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/california
    job type case_5569.jpg]\r\n.\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/modern
    california job case copy_6689.jpg]\r\n."
  created: '2006-10-26 15:29:27'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "<cite>A few diacriticals for you\u2026\r\nWhat is a macron?\r\nWhat is a
    breve?\r\nWhat is a cedilla?\r\nWhat is a caron?\r\nWhat is a circumflex?\r\nWhat
    is an diaeresis/umlaut?\r\nWhat is a grave accent? (it\u2019s not a wreath ;-)\r\nWhat
    is an acute accent? (it\u2019s not from Brooklyn ;-)\r\n\r\n\u2014Michael.</cite>\r\n\r\n>\r\n>macron.............{
    \u0101, \u0113, \u012B, \u014D, \u016B\r\n>breve..............{ \u0103, \u0115,
    \u012D, \u014F, \u016D\r\n>cedilla............{ \xE7\r\n>caron=h\xE1\u010Dek........{
    \xE1\r\n>circumflex.........{ \xE2, \xEA, \xEE, \xF4, \xFB\r\n>diaeresis/umlaut...{
    \xE4, \xF6, \xFC,\r\n>grave accent.......{ \xC0, \xC8, \xCC, \xD2, \xD9\r\n>acute
    accent.......{ \xE1, \xE9, \xED, \xF3, \xFA, \xFD\r\n\r\n\r\nMichael, right now
    I've only answered how they looks like..I'll add their definitions too.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-26 15:56:35'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "This is a german case:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1_4502.gif]\r\n\r\nAnd
    I am still waiting for the anglo-american and the german printing height for letterpress.
    tz,tz,tzz.. ;-)\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-26 16:21:36'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Ha Georg, that's funny. There is also still unanswered a question about the
    Golden Ratio, I think.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile\r\n\r\nWhat is the standard size of a
    business card (in mm or inches)?\r\n\r\nWhat does the acronym OCR stand for, and
    where are you most likely to find an OCR typeface?\r\n\r\nIs the 'randomfont'
    typeface Beowolf Serif R21 suitable for four colour process separations?\r\n\r\nWhat
    is the minimum size at which you could (successfully) reverse out Bodoni type
    from four colour process printing? How could you increase the chances of success
    with this?\r\n\r\nSuggest a way of specifying the mandatory size for type denoting
    alcholic content by volume on a beer or wine label?\r\n\r\n<em> \u201Cwhich are
    the best books on typography which every typography student MUST/MUST/MUST have?</em>\r\n\r\nDavid
    Jury's <a/href=\"http://www.amazon.com/About-Face-Reviving-Rules-Typography/dp/2880466776/sr=8-1/qid=1161903150/ref=pd_bbs_1/102-7336877-9254551?ie=UTF8&s=books\">About
    Face: Reviving the Rules of Typography</a> would be a good title to spend the
    weekend with, Satya. Probably contains many answers to what is going on here.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-27 00:03:17'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Are the US designers familiar with the metric system in the meanwhile? :-)\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-27 07:03:27'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "No they're not, but then I'm not a US designer. But in deference I went back
    and edited that post. \r\n\r\nSatya if the question about <em>type denoting alcholic
    content</em> is problematic for reasons other than typography, please disregard
    it. I'd never advise anyone to drink alcohol <em>before</em> an examination..."
  created: '2006-10-27 12:39:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Are the US designers familiar with the metric system in the meanwhile?\"\r\n\r\n\r\nAmericans
    and american designers are \"somewhat\" familiar with it.  There have been a number
    of attempts to teach it here and to switch over to it.  The switching over part
    has failed quite miserably as you might expect. Even though the metric system
    is far more logical in every way, change is difficult at best. I think a great
    impediment is in the inability of people not used to the metric system to visualize
    a measure. Those brought up in the Enlish system have a feel for what an inch
    or a foot or a mile might be but can't get a visual grasp on centemeters and kilometers.
    \ They have to make the conversion calculation before they can \"see\" it.  We
    all know how much we love having to do a calculation thrills us so the resistance
    continues. \r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-27 12:58:25'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "<cite>What is the Golden Ratio ?</cite>\r\n.\r\n.\r\n> <strong>Golden Ratio</strong>\r\n.\r\n=
    Divine Proportion\r\n= Golden Mean\r\n= Golden Section\r\n= a number often encountered
    when taking the ratios of distances in \r\nsimple geometric figures such as the
    pentagon, pentagram, decagon  and dodecahedron. It is denoted phi(\u03C6), or
    sometimes \"tau\". The value of golden ratio is 1.6180339887498948482...\r\n.\r\n.\r\n><strong>Golden
    Proportions:</strong>\r\n.\r\nThe ratio of 3:5 (or 5:3) is known as Golden Proportion.
    Photographers and artists have long noted that viewers seem to prefer pictures
    which are proportioned using this ratio.\r\n\r\nAnother special ratio is 2:3.5
    for smaller shapes. This is the ratio of most business cards. This size, and multiples
    of it, seem very comfortable and familiar.\r\n\r\nGolden rectangle is most pleasing
    to the eyes. And its the most widely used proportion in design whether its be
    print or the architecture. \r\n.\r\n.\r\n><strong>Construction Method: Golden
    Rectangle</strong>\r\n.\r\n\u2022 Construct a unit square.\r\n.\r\n\u2022 Draw
    a line from the midpoint of one side to an opposite corner.\r\n.\r\n\u2022 Use
    that line as the radius to draw an arc that defines the long dimension of the
    rectangle.\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Golden_Rectangle_Construction2_3600.jpg]\r\n.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-27 14:02:09'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "@ dezcom \r\nIn know and I understand exactly what you mean.\r\nBecause I
    have the same problem: \r\nI know by heart the distances in Didot point and Cicero.\r\nBut
    have lots of problems to imagine it in millimeter.\r\nI'm coming out of letterpress.\r\n\r\nMy
    question was more a joke. Because no one from here in Germany is possible to understand
    inches of course. We are happy to understand your dimes and quarters.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-27 21:17:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> We are happy to understand your dimes and quarters.\r\n\r\n:->\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-27 21:21:45'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: 'The term ladders to me has always meant three or more consecutive hyphens
    in setting. '
  created: '2006-10-27 21:32:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"We are happy to understand your dimes and quarters.\"\r\n\r\nROFL!!! Even
    though Hrant beat me to the post, I had to chime in:-)\r\nThe saying in America
    is \"Money talks\" ;-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-27 22:22:30'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "So how did it go?\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-31 08:22:39'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "I was prepared, but they didn't asked me much abt the typography/publication....they
    asked me more about my other courses like interactive media, advanced graphic
    design, Elements of video and photography.\r\nBut overall jury went fine and smooth.
    Now am in the next semester:)\r\n\r\nI hope I'll finish my all the incomplete
    typefaces by the end of this semester before going for the internship. Before
    coming to typophile I was planning to go for the internship in Broadcast/motion
    graphics but now I'll do it in type design.\r\n\r\nThank you so much  typophile
    &\r\nthank you all for your true help.\r\n\r\nsatya\r\n:)"
  created: '2006-10-31 10:59:00'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Good, congratulations.\r\nBroadcast and motion graphics need type design
    as well, I'd guess more in fact.\r\nSo where are the rest of the answers:)\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-31 11:19:22'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "thanks Tim! \r\nWhatever I do but finally I'll jump into Broadcast/Motion
    Design only..as it always fascinated me. As you said typography is a major element
    in motion/broadcast graphics and thats y I think its a Plus for me. Am very close
    to both.\r\n\r\n\\\r\n\r\nFor lots of questions am still searching the answers..Will
    post then soon:)"
  created: '2006-10-31 11:37:40'
- author:
    name: emzi26
  body: please could you tell me of any typefaces you are aware of that were created
    in 1950 or thereabouts other than Herman Zapfs Palatino?
  created: '2006-10-31 12:33:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Satya,\r\nI am glad the jury went well! Don't worry that they did not ask
    many type questions.  The point of studying is for the knowledge you keep with
    you, not just the test.  Keep your passion for type whatever field you end up
    working in.\r\n\r\nBravo Satya!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-31 12:54:00'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Sistina and Saphir\r\n\r\nEmma, you really should create your own thread
    and google.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-31 12:55:47'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "Emma, \r\nas Tim said, If you have any quiry/question..create a new thread..\r\nso
    that more people can see your thread and help you in their own way.\r\n\r\nwelcome
    to typophile, btw.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-31 14:16:46'
- author:
    name: Nicole McR.
    picture: 111988
  body: this board is so full of knowledge, i'm overwhelmed.
  created: '2006-10-31 15:25:16'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "Nicole, better you call it a university:)\r\nwelcome to the typophile, btw."
  created: '2006-10-31 15:35:13'
- author:
    name: ndmike
    picture: 109528
  body: "<cite>On the Internet, a masthead is a graphic image or text title at the
    top of a Web page that identifies the Web site and, sometimes, the particular
    section of the site. In addition to the name of the Web site, a masthead could
    include other elements such as images, text, or navigational links. The Web site
    masthead was named after a similar feature of newspapers and magazines, which
    in turn got its name from the top of a mast on a ship.</cite>\r\n\r\nNot quite
    correct (although its a common misconception). You are describing a \"flag.\"
    What's a real masthead?"
  created: '2006-10-31 18:59:10'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Hey Satya \r\n\r\nWell done for getting through it (and out the other side).
    I guess many of those questions amounted to overkill!! Although some of them may
    still come in handy for broadcast & motion graphics it's true.\r\n\r\nEmma you
    could read the story of <a/href=\"http://www.pbtweb.com/alpha26/index.html\">Bradbury
    Thompson's Alphabet 26,</a> which also dates from 1950."
  created: '2006-11-01 08:42:16'
date: '2006-10-23 12:36:58'
node_type: forum
title: Please ask me_

---
