---
author:
  name: Rhythmus.be
  picture: 111885
body: "FontLab has a feature called \"Expand Strokes\" which simulates the movement
  of a calligraphic pen (brush) over a given curve (path). The prime parameters are
  restricted to the pen's width, its angle and thickness (which FL calls \"Roundness\");
  and then there are \"Join\", \"Cap\" and \"Body\".\r\n\r\nOne important parameter
  is missing, though. Namely the relative position of the pen (brush) on/along (!)
  the path. By default that position is the centre of the brush (both Width and Roundness,
  I guess). Not so in FontLab's \"Make Parallel Path\", where you have three options
  (\"Relative Position\"): Left, Right, Both. The latter equals the default setting
  of the \"Expand Strokes\" feature.\r\n\r\nNow, suppose you draw a curve which has
  to be the outer (Right) contour of a shape. Along this path you want a parallel
  path, not a linear one (parallel in the strict sense), but one according to the
  parameters of a given pen (width, angle and thickness).\r\n\r\nThe \"Make Parallel
  Path\" feature won't do the trick, because you can't set the pen's parameters. The
  \"Expand Strokes\" feature will neither, because you cannot set the relative position
  of the pen (brush).\r\n\r\nI am looking for a workaround. I use FontLab 4.6.0 demo
  version. I looked into the User's Manual for FontLab Studio 5 and there is no change."
comments:
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "We have included your suggestion in your feature request list. \r\n\r\nAdam
    Twardoch\r\nFontlab Ltd.\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Rhythmus.be
      picture: 111885
    body: "Thanks. In the mean time: is there really no workaround that does it? This
      would be really convenient.\r\n\r\nI have been trying to set up the right algorithm
      for it, but as I don\u2019t program, it is not going to help me further.\r\n\r\nI
      stress the importance of this. Not only, it would be a very nice application
      of Gerrit Noorzij's theories (The Stroke of the Pen), but it would add *a lot*
      to the production of type. As a matter of fact, I quite don't understand how
      devising type is possible at all, without this."
    created: '2006-10-24 10:03:40'
  created: '2006-10-24 08:42:14'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "These additions would be nice too:\r\n\r\nhttp://groups.msn.com/fontlab/featurerequests.msnw?action=get_message&mview=0&ID_Message=2586&LastModified=4675445367909258397"
  created: '2006-10-24 11:08:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I quite don\u2019t understand how devising type is possible at all, without
    this.\r\n\r\nAs explained in 'Printers Type in the 20th Century' Knuth's 'metafont'
    effort to define fonts in terms of a line plus rules for expansion was a failure,
    and the approach of directly designing outlines has succeeded.\r\n\r\nThough type
    has an 'underlying force' of the pen in it, to quote van Krimpen, almost all roman
    typefaces from Jenson on cannot be written with a pen. Something approximating
    them can be, but the departure from the pen is critical to type, in particular
    to achieving the even color that improves readability over handwriting.   \r\n\r\nFor
    these reasons, perhaps, my impression is that most type designers do not start
    with lines, but rather with outlines, and then 'sculpt' these until they are satisfied
    with them. I don't mean to say that there is anything wrong with starting with
    lines, but it is not necessary, and later the sculpting process I think is critical. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Rhythmus.be
      picture: 111885
    body: "Right. Now you're at the core of what I am aiming at.\r\n\r\nIt's not because
      Southall says so (that METAFONT was a failure\u2014to him), that this is sacred
      truth. His book devotes only eighteen pages to professor Knuth's (and Hermann
      Zapf's) endeavours, whereas Knuth wrote four volumes. Moreover, the relevant
      chapter (18) is very incomplete and vague, apart from the fact that it is by
      far outdated and doesn't mention recent research. Southall deemed type design
      by computer programming to be a failure, already back in 1985, in an embryonic
      Stanford report.\r\n\r\nThings have changed ever since. At the moment a Polish
      group of programmers is successfully working on the next-generation metafont,
      using the vector based (PostScript) METAPOST, so as to render Type 1 fonts,
      rather than Knuth's original bitmap fonts. There are other ventures too.\r\n\r\nI
      strongly support the idea of parameterisable, programmed fonts. Much contrary
      to the perhaps prevailing practice of tediously sculpting outlines. This is
      archaic and certainly will not last.\r\n\r\nI do not claim that the stroke of
      the pen is of primordial importance to type. In fact, I disagree with Knuth's
      approach of using the pen as a modifier for the glyph shapes. I am no supporter
      of all too calligraphic/chirographic type. But because contrast, the relation
      from thick to thin strokes, is directly deducted from the pen (either broad
      nib or split pen), it remains crucial. Likely some optical and other modifications
      will have to be devised by the type designer still, but he would benefit enormously
      if his skeleton strokes would be shaped by a virtual pen, of which he could
      alter the parameters, in advance."
    created: '2006-10-24 13:20:52'
  created: '2006-10-24 11:48:11'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: BTW, my icon on the left (our printer's device) was drawn using METAFONT.
  created: '2006-10-24 13:29:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "If I read you rightly, think you are conceding to some extent Southall's
    point, but saying that it is possible to revive the idea in an improved way and
    make it practical. I am skeptical, but if you and others can make it work, more
    power to you. \r\n\r\nI am not any authority, but in my opinion the fact that
    in its formative period type was sculpted rather than written, and continued to
    be sculpted for 500 years shows in our concept of what good type is. Though I
    have great admiration for Noordzij, I don't agree with him that punchcutting is
    irrelevant to understanding letters. \r\n\r\nIt is not signs of the tool in old
    type that is crucial, but rather that by sculpting they were able to violate the
    rules of the pen in order to produce type that conformed better to the 'rules
    of the eye' than any handwriting. \r\n\r\nIf I remember Southall rightly (I read
    a library copy), his account was that in order to adjust for optical effects,
    eg the need to thin strokes at joins--and a hundred others--it became so complex
    to program the effects that it was more efficient just to sculpt. \r\n\r\nMy philosophy
    is 'let a hundred flowers bloom', so I will be happy if you can make this approach
    work. But as I say, I am skeptical. \r\n\r\nAs an example, to my eyes your printer's
    device does not look satisfactory from a typographic point of view. It lacks balance
    and good color in my opinion. For instance, for the strokes in a + sign to look
    balanced the vertical has to be thicker than the horizontal. But in your icon,
    the vertical cross in the middle has the vertical look considerably thinner. This
    not only makes the middle weaker, but also goes against the 'logic' of the roman
    capitals. Of course, I am looking at it on screen, my assessment might be unfair.
    \r\n\r\nBy comparison, at left in my icon is my version of Caslon's italic ampersand
    in his Pica II type. It looks very pen drawn, but I doubt very much if you could
    draw it with one pen moving continuously, even with complex rotations. Of course
    with the combination of any mathematically possible rotation and expansion of
    a moving front you can describe any closed two dimensional shape. But when it
    gets so complex, it seems that programming it is much more trouble than just drawing
    it. The key problem is that the 'rules of the eye' as regards color and balance
    and harmony with other letters are complex and not fully understood. Hence sculpting
    and looking, and letting the eye be the arbiter still seems to be the most efficient
    way, as pains-taking and time-consuming as it is. \r\n\r\nThe ampersand is 90%
    Caslon (including with Caslon whomever he was imitating!) so I am not claiming
    a lot of credit, but I do think it looks more satisfactorily typographic than
    your icon. And this is a reflection of the by then 200 years of punch-cutting
    letters, with each person drawing on the achievements of his predecessors. "
  created: '2006-10-24 14:56:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The part of type design which you refer to--making the skeleton--is the easiest
    and fastest part of the job.  The \"some degree of sculpting\" is what takes the
    time in drawing the outlines. Type design as a mass-production effort seems pointless
    to me.  There just isn't the need for that much volume. That is not to say that
    you should not pursue your idea.  By all means, do it. But \"devising type without
    this\" is certainly possible as well as desirable, unless we want to bury ourselves
    in only the archaic practice of the broad-nibbed pen. This is not the time to
    shut out non chirographic possibilities, but the time to embrace them. We should
    be at least as open to non-calligraphic forms as we are to your theory. It is
    clearly possible to design type either way and there is no point in building a
    fence around perceived methods of today and yesterday. There just might be something
    better out there. My guess would be that scratching in the dirt with a stick may
    have been the first writing method.  We did not stop at the dictates of the stick
    in mud then, why should we stop at the dictates of the broad-pen on paper now?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-24 15:18:50'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "William \u2014 Though you're viewing my device at a very small scale/resolution,
    on screen, you're quite right about its fallacies (balance, colour). But we programmed
    (!) it a few months ago, during our first tray-outs with METAFONT. It was clear
    from the start that METAFONT is unpractical (e.g. by lack of a proper GUI, you
    have to rely on the good old command line) and that its concepts are inefficient
    to design type properly. I am looking forward to learn more about MetaType1 (the
    Polish project I mentioned), which uses other concepts.\r\n\r\nThe optical corrections
    you are rehearsing, can be programmed as well. The \"rules of the eye\" sure are
    governed by logic; we do not perceive things randomly. If we can analyse this
    logic, we can program it. I guess the translation and expansion of a moving front
    (an elliptic pen or yet something different), determining the transitions from
    thick to thin, is only part of that, while our perception of what good letter
    shapes are to be, has become used to those.\r\n\r\nChrisL \u2014 The fact that
    drawing the skeleton is the \"easiest and fastest part of the job\" implicitly
    proves my point. Why should we do that over and over again? Apart from probably
    lots of alternate shapes per character, these skeletons are an unchangeable given
    (e.g. an uppercase E ought to consist out of one vertical stem, with three cross
    bars on its right side). They build the core of each and every typeface and are
    the sole reason why we can read and recognise glyphs, whatever the outer shapes
    in which they are dressed. Now, couldn't we just build a library of skeletons
    (some sort of extended Unicode), feed those to a type processor and extract out
    of it, according to the style parameters of our choice, the typeface we want,
    just on the fly?\r\n\r\nYes, perhaps programming it all is more complex than just
    going ahead and sculpting. Time and again. But once this huge task has been done,
    type design will be a piece of cake. No more laboriously sculpting contour curves.
    I agree that there is no need for mass production. But then again, the volume
    is quite big already\u2014which Bodoni am I to use? However, once one decided
    to go with one particular face, then it becomes clear that there is not enough:
    no opticals at each and every instance of possible sizes, no Cyrillics or IPA
    in the glyph palette and so on. And then there is the x-height that I need to
    be a little larger for this particular job, and the descenders in the bottom line
    have to be just a bit longer. Just change the value of the proper parameters,
    and there I am, with the exact font I needed, complete with all those hundreds
    of glyphs.\r\n\r\nNow back to sculpting. I am progressing too slowly.\r\nAdam
    \u2014 FontLab \"Expand Strokes\": really no workaround?"
  created: '2006-10-24 16:18:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">If we can analyse this logic, we can program it.\r\n\r\nI have a feeling
    that you have no idea how difficult it is to analyse and pin down visual logic.
    \r\n\r\nEven ideal spacing between letters has never been programmed with full
    success--and that's just one variable. Design of letters is way more complicated.
    For example, how you are going know visual logic so well as to program how the
    cross bar on the A should differ in height and thickness from the H? And how it
    should vary with the width of the A, the contrast, the degree of taper, the style
    of serifs? That's just one of thousands of decisions, and only a few rules, such
    as about overshoots--are known--and these can have exceptions and are debatable. "
  created: '2006-10-24 18:31:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"feed those to a type processor and extract out of it\"\r\n\r\nBesides the
    fact that you totally missed my point, good luck marketing your type processer.
    I am sure it will be a big success.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-24 18:49:20'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "<cite>Yes, perhaps programming it all is more complex than just going ahead
    and sculpting. Time and again. But once this huge task has been done, type design
    will be a piece of cake.</cite>\r\n\r\nHaha ;-) Good luck!"
  created: '2006-10-24 21:34:57'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Ludwig] \"the right algorithm for it\"\r\n\r\nI wonder if the Vinyas code
    would be of help. It's an old software and I don't have a copy. Not sure if it
    still exists. But Vinyas implements (I believe) \"Type A.3\" of Laxima Parida's
    'Sweep Rule Variations', shown <a href=\"http://www.enneson.com/public_downloads/pe/typophile/trans_expansion_rot.pdf\">here</a>
    along side of Gerrit Noordzij's triad of translation, rotation and expansion;
    and described <a href=\"http://www.enneson.com/public_downloads/pe/typophile/laxima_parida.pdf\">here</a>.
    I think Type A.3 is the one you're after. (There are other nice ones too.)\r\n\r\nBut,
    in line with Bill and Chris's comments, read the cautionary notes on the final
    page of Noordzij's 1991 RIDT contribution <em>The Shape of the Stroke</em> available
    (by me) <a href=\"http://www.enneson.com/public_downloads/pe/typophile/gn_ridt_1991.pdf\">here</a>.\r\n\r\nPeter
    Enneson"
  created: '2006-10-24 21:50:50'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "Peter \u2014 Thanks a lot for the Parida article. That's one I didn't knew
    of. Really interesting!\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.nowacki.strefa.pl/\">These</a>are
    the Polish researchers I mentioned; there is a Wiki on their project as wel, <a
    href=\" http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/METATYPE1\">here</a>. As you can see, they
    succeeded in so far that they developed three font families already.\r\n\r\nWilliam,
    Chris and Goran \u2014 The fonts generated by MetaType are offered free of charge
    to the public. Not much marketing needed, isn't it?\r\n\r\nIn the days that Expert
    Sets were introduced, I guess, there must have been sceptics like you, who laughed
    at the idea that within a decade they would be abolished by magic OpenType fonts
    that would carry a vast amount of glyphs, so much that even the fastest processors
    of the day would become obsolete, added to the inconceivable miracle of automated
    contextual glyph substitutions.\r\n\r\nOf course I have been exaggerating. I depicted
    the whole idea as a caricature, since it is very unlikely that we will have such
    a fully operational piece of software soon. There is yet a long way to go, and
    in the end, manual editing will be necessary still. But then again, are you, contour
    sculptors, using Multiple Master technology, interpolations, transformation operators?
    So, what's the big deal?\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-25 01:26:05'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Ludwig, \r\n\r\nunfortunately, to me, the MetaType1 project by my good friends
    Janusz Nowacki and Boguslaw Jackowski is a perfect confirmation of Southall's
    assertions. Nowacki and Jackowski attempted to revive Adam Poltawski's pre-WWII
    Polish \"Antykwa Poltawskiego\" typeface using a parametric approach. IMHO, they
    failed massively, and ended up with a catastrophically hideous bold style which
    bears no resemblance to Poltawski's original. When I inquired them why the bold
    is so hideous, they had to admit that it was too difficult for them to come up
    with parameters that could effectively describe both the regular and the bold
    in a pleasant way. Nowacki and Jackowski are really smart people, Jackowski a
    brilliant mathematician and a great mind. I read it as: if they failed (and so
    has one of the brightest minds alive, Knuth, because Computer Modern is simply
    hideous) then I think it is sufficient enough of a proof that the concept has
    massive flaws. \r\n\r\nAs for the FLS5 workaround, I can't think of any. But you
    might want to take a look at the skeletal strokes technology in Microsoft Expression
    Graphic Designer (http://www.microsoft.com/products/expression/en/graphic_designer/
    ). Before the application went to Microsoft, it was quite popular among illustrators
    (it was known simply as \"Expression\", and before that, \"Fractal Design Expression\").
    The skeletal strokes are vector-based parametric strokes that you can control
    using a graphic tablet, and also reuse. You can then export the results as EPS
    and import them into FontLab Studio. \r\n\r\nI'd be curious to hear of your findings.
    \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam Twardoch\r\nFontlab Ltd.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-25 15:46:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Peter,\r\nThanks for posting the Noordzij article. I found it a good companion
    to his other books.  It shows the thought process of the man at work.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-25 16:30:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, I agree with you about the article; I think it is one of the best
    expositions of G. Noordzij's views. \r\n\r\nLudwig, in light of Adam's posting,
    I think the most that could be hoped for, in light of our weak understanding of
    the visual logic of type design, is that the 'spine and parametric expansion'
    approach could give us additional ways of sculpting letters. As you point out,
    now there are now such tools as interpolation, multiple masters, etc. A tool that
    would define a spine for a character, or take an indicated one, and then enable
    manipulation of the expansion rotation, etc of the front for each letter, under
    the control of the designer, might be helpful.   "
  created: '2006-10-25 17:37:34'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "Adam \u2014 I plan to go to the EuroTeX 2007 conference in Bachotek, Poland.
    Jackowski and Nowacki will have a talk there. I look forward to meet them and
    learn more about the concepts behind MetaType1. Do you think they welcome an exchange
    of thoughts on this topic?\r\n\r\n> they had to admit that it was too difficult
    for them to come up with parameters\r\n> that could effectively describe both
    the regular and the bold in a pleasant way.\r\n\r\nI have no clue on which parameters
    they are using, neither on the method they use to draw the outlines. I can't really
    figure out either, reading their articles. (Did they publish something recently?)
    But judging form your description, to me, it looks the approach is erroneous.
    Regular and bold can't be expressed by the same parameters, precisely because
    the bold weight should be a function of a set of parameters that differs from
    the regular weight. It seems as if they are describing each singular glyph in
    a parametric way, very much like Knuth 'drew' each glyph separately (in particular
    the s), rather than really parameterising the concept of a typeface as a whole.
    Also, I don't expect the program to generate exactly the same shapes in the bold
    weight, starting from the regular, as those that are in the designs of the original.
    Revivals, I guess, can't be programmed, simply because the original designer likely
    wasn't consequent with his own design parameters."
  created: '2006-10-31 14:13:04'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> I plan to go to the EuroTeX 2007 conference in Bachotek, Poland. \r\n>
    Jackowski and Nowacki will have a talk there. I look \r\n> forward to meet them
    and learn more about the concepts \r\n> behind MetaType1. Do you think they welcome
    an exchange \r\n> of thoughts on this topic?\r\n\r\nOf course. (BTW, I've been
    attending Bachotek conferences regularly since 1998). \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-11-06 09:35:45'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "Interesting addition: <a href=\"http://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=es&u=http://re-type.com/notaweblog/%3Fp%3D71\">Modelizando
    las teor\xEDas de G. Noordzij</a>"
  created: '2007-08-20 09:25:19'
date: '2006-10-24 00:03:39'
node_type: forum
title: 'FontLab "Expand Strokes": parameter missing'

---
