---
author:
  name: paul d hunt
  picture: 109422
body: 'Eben''s thread on <a href="http://typophile.com/node/28777">ligatures & readability</a>
  got me to thinking. It seems (correct me if I''m wrong) that there is little reliable
  research on the mechanics of reading and hardly anything exhaustive. My question
  is what is needed to provide such research (besides money)? I''m thinking a custom
  built suite of typefaces that allows researchers to isolate particular variables
  as best as possible. And of course reading environment is a factor. What environments
  should reading be tested in? What are the questions that need to be addressed? But
  before putting the cart before the horse, i guess i should go back to: what are
  the proposed goals of reading research? what are the pressing issues that need to
  be covered? why do we need research on reading? A lot of questions, hopefully we
  can get some answers here (and i''m sure a whole other set of questions...) In short,
  I guess i''m wanting to hear your proposals about the aims and methods of a reading
  research regimen.'
comments:
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Sure we have schools, places where the best commodity should be the dialogue,
    eventually those are the places for such a need.
  created: '2006-10-25 14:48:07'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: I think Luc de Groot has been involved in some research on typography and
    dyslexia, maybe he knows something.
  created: '2006-10-25 14:56:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My first question would be: Is there a problem with reading? Maybe there
    isn't?\r\n\r\nThe difficulty is separating the reading part from the comprehension
    part. Kevin Larson said in a recent post that he thinks the longest delay in reading
    is the comprehension part. My question is, how do we know when saccades are duplicated
    or regression occurs if this is due to inability to decipher the letterforms and
    words (reading) or an inability to understand what the author is trying to say.
    \ I hope Kevin can clarify what he said because I may not have gotten it right.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-25 15:05:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I don't think the problem is so much what to test, so much has having good
    measures to test them. Stuff that seems obvious to typographers and type designers
    it seems is difficult to test for. So what is needed are measures in addition
    to reading speed, which will more readily and sharply discriminate better and
    worse readability. I have proposed a measure of reading comfort: how fast comprehension
    decreases with time. Kevin says he is proposing another new measure--I guess in
    the new Typo article. What is it? \r\n\r\nAnother way of improving testing besides
    new measures is to make better use of marginal readers, such as those learning
    to read, and those with reading difficulties, or 'dyslexia', and compare these
    to expert readers. Here what is important is to have good theories of the learning-to-read
    process and of kinds of reading difficulties. That will help define good tests.
    The variations in good and bad type may be magnified for these marginal readers,
    though the relationships may be complex and not straightforward. \r\n\r\nAs to
    what to test, some factors that come to mind are:\r\n\r\n1. Type size--as defined
    by x height. 2. Weight--percentage of black to white 3. Serifs--presence or absence.
    4. Extenders--effect of various heights. 5. Leading--amount of leading at a given
    x-height (and influence of serifs, extenders). 6. Letter spacing--amount, evenness.
    7. Measure or line length. 8. Counter size--and ratio of counter size to spacing.
    9 Word spacing 10. How these factors vary with optical size.\r\n\r\nThese all
    interact, so you would also have to test for combinations.\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-25 15:21:48'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "During the Type & Design Education Forum at TypeCon 2006/Boston, Audrey Bennett
    made a presentation regarding letterforms as a potential tool for aiding readability
    for children with learning dissabilities (among other pertinent topics she covered).\r\n\r\nShe
    is trying to gain some momentum with type design industry, educational institutions
    and funding (grants, etc.).\r\n\r\nYou might try contacting her directly, as she
    is very sincere about her efforts.\r\n\r\nAudrey Bennett\r\nAssociate Professor
    of Graphics\r\nDepartment of Language, Literature,and Communication\r\nRensselaer
    Polytechnic Institute\r\n110 8th Street\r\nTroy, New York 12180-3590\r\nO 518.276.8129\r\nF
    518.276.4092\r\nbennett@rpi.edu\r\n\r\nFYI- here is a link to an earlier version
    of her <a href=\"http://www.rpi.edu/~bennett/typecon/\" target=\"new\">Powerpoint
    presentation at TypeCon</a>.\r\n\r\n> P.S. -- me bad! After TypeCon I had promised
    to expand the <a href=\"http://typophile.com/forum/16\" target=\"new\">Typographic
    Education</a> special interest section of Typophile with presentations, summaries
    and contact info of the presenters (who gave permission) during Type & Design
    Education Forum. I do have the files to organize and upload and will keep my promise
    to make them available. \r\n\r\nNo excuse, but right after TypeCon I started a
    new full-time position and have been very busy... scarcely time to post as often
    as I used to. "
  created: '2006-10-25 15:28:17'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "Oh boy. Be careful what you wish for. This is Pandora's box all over again.\r\n\r\nHaving
    said that...\r\n\r\n<em>why do we need research on reading? what are the proposed
    goals of reading research?</em>\r\n\r\nTo find out whether and how design can
    improve the efficiency and efficacy with which readers process printed text. From
    a more philosophical or ideological point of view, the ultimate goal is to promote
    the dissemination of knowledge."
  created: '2006-10-25 15:38:33'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "This is quite readable in my opinion, with a soft touch of clouds :\r\nhttp://www.filosofico.net/filos52.htm"
  created: '2006-10-25 16:35:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kevin with a gentle mood adjustment.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-25 17:32:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Is there a problem with reading?\r\n\r\nCaveman #1: Grunt, I wonder if
    I can do something\r\nto get to my girlfriend\u2019s cave quicker in the mornings.\r\nCaveman
    #2: Grunt, is there a problem with walking?\r\n\r\nCaveman #1 invented shoes.
    Caveman #2 got removed from the gene pool.\r\n\r\n\u2014\r\n\r\nText fonts are
    like walking shoes: you don\u2019t notice any flaws unless they\u2019re really
    bad, but no matter how good they are they still end up hurting you if you walk
    long enough. There will always be ways to make fonts/shoes more comfortable for
    a longer duration.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-25 18:09:42'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nNot a problem with reading; a problem with our understanding
    of what makes reading happen. We want to know so we can influence the meaningful
    variables. \r\n\r\nAs Bill points out, the many variables interact, so it's a
    very big project to try to separate them. I do think a new suite of fonts should
    be developed, but let's all chant together: it should be type designers (experienced,
    thorough, open-minded ones), not students, brain scientists or linguists who develop
    them. The complexity of assembling a team of appropriate experts, asking the right
    questions, testing thoroughly, and finding meaningful results is a tall order.
    So, Paul, I would say, no, there isn't anything even approaching exhaustive or
    even complete research out there. It hasn't even been tried."
  created: '2006-10-26 04:07:45'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "What I'd like to see is a Research Institute for the Scientific Study of
    Perceptual Processing in Reading, existing under the institutional umbrella of
    a School of Typography or Design.\r\n\r\nThe idea here would be to go beyond developing
    new measures of readability; or developing new proofs of readerability; or devising
    comparative tests that show a more sophisitcated understanding of the stimulus
    material used in these tests (i.e., type), though this last concern is certainly
    a priority. The idea here would be to develop an understanding of the perceptual
    and neuro-physical mechanics of reading that is detailed enough to make plain
    why the things that typographers and type designers <em>know</em> are critical
    or worth attending to,  <em>are</em> indeed critical and worth attending to, like
    spacing.\r\n\r\nCurrently the <em>perceptual</em> mechanics of reading are massively
    under explored by students of reading and reading problems. And currently pivotal
    dimensions of processing (like, for instance, lateral interference) are not well
    integrated into the picture. A good deal is known about perceptual mechanics,
    neural behaviour in the multi-layered visual cortex, perceptual learning and object
    recognition that <em>hasn't</em> been effectively applied and tested in the domain
    of what I call 'visual wordform resolution'. The Design / Typography School umbrella
    would gaurantee the data currently available is (re)viewed with eyes sensitized
    by typographical craft knowledge, and that the tests are designed in a way that
    reflects expert knowledge of the stimulus material and trenchant intuitions about
    their functioning in conditions of use. Eyes sensitized by typographical craft
    wisdom might predispose the researcher to introduce relevant but overlooked perspectives
    that integrate a greater range of observations and in doing this redirect the
    field.\r\n\r\nSo there is a benefit to the typographical community <em>and</em>
    to the field of reading research."
  created: '2006-10-26 04:21:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>decipher the letterforms and words (reading) or an inability to understand
    what the author is trying to say</cite>\r\n\r\nChris, that's a really interesting
    idea. William, nice list!\r\n\r\nHere are some more possible variables \r\n\r\n-
    paper & ink combinations ( how is that for exponential factors? - actually there
    aught to be a way of contrasting things without going too crazy )\r\n- Serif shape\r\n-
    contrast with ground/paper\r\n- Reverse color ( white on black )\r\n\r\nNick had
    some solid ideas about this ina thread I connot seem to dig up now. Anybody else
    know where it is? \r\n\r\nUltimately though I do think that there is some purpose
    ( efficency if nothing else) in doing tests which are designed to see what kind
    of meta theory might be best at describing the mechanisms at work in reading.
    It seems to me that david berlow said something to the effect that whatever theory
    is used to desribe what happens in reading latin characters had better have some
    way of dealing with arabic & chinese too or it was going to be sub-standard. I
    tend to agree. ( ...If that's an acceptable paraphrasing and my memory isn't fooling
    me utterly that is.) I would for instance, like it very much if some of Peter's
    theories could be tested.\r\n\r\nUltimately what I am personally curious about
    is if small subtle contextual variations in lettershape and spacing might be helpful.
    Erik Van Blockland made a typeface that varied randomly called Kosmik. Of course
    because Kosmic is psudorandom or even super-random in that it avoids the sameness
    that randomizing can produce. So.... it *is* contextual. But the contextual I
    am interested in is variation to be sure but based on attempting to get better
    Notan & letter relationship rather than variation for it's own sake. Sometime
    soon I will start a thread about this again. I am assembling lots of bits & pieces
    at the moment! All of this is to say I would like this idea tested one day too.\r\n\r\nBut
    what has intrigued me most about this thread is not the pure theory or the atomization
    of type factors - it's the ideas people have had about alternatives to pure speed
    for measuring type success. In my view, that question is probably the richest
    vein to be mined of all.\r\n\r\nLuca(as) where are you?"
  created: '2006-10-26 05:07:21'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "If all you blokes put your heads together I reckon youd make a font that's
    heaps better than all these cruddy ones these days. Are you up for it???\r\n\r\nMuzz"
  created: '2006-10-26 06:07:52'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>But the contextual I am interested in is variation to be sure but based
    on attempting to get better Notan & letter relationship rather than variation
    for it\u2019s own sake. Sometime soon I will start a thread about this again.</em>\r\n\r\nOr
    you can revive <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/14816\">this one</a>, if it
    suits your needs."
  created: '2006-10-26 14:33:33'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Eben] \"\u2026measuring type success\u2026\"\r\n\r\nIt's great to measure
    the success of a drug protocol. \r\nBut we need to understand <em>why</em> in
    biological terms a specific drug works and <em>how</em> they work in combination.
    \r\n\r\nTo guide intelligent action in our manipulation of typographical micro-variables
    we need to know how things acheive what they acheive.\r\n \r\nThis should motivate
    research into perceptual processing and perceptual learning."
  created: '2006-10-26 14:52:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Is there a problem with reading? Maybe there isn\u2019t?\r\n\r\nThat is
    a really good question, Chris. I think the answer is that sometimes we know there
    is a problem. \r\n\r\nFor example a friend of mine was talking about the requirements
    for grant proposals for NSF. They are required to be a single column of 10 point
    Times New Roman, single spaced on letter sized paper. This makes the measure way
    too long, and my friend was saying that it really makes ploughing through piles
    of grant applications a chore for the reviewers.\r\n\r\nAnother example I think
    are screen fonts, which in that low resolution environment are fatiguing enough
    that most people don't want to read extended text--only read text in snippets.\r\n\r\nSo
    we know there is a range of more and less readable text. Now you can reasonably
    question is whether it is possible to improve on the best typefaces--such as Baskerville,
    Garamond, etc.--set at a size, measure and spacing we know are excellent. Maybe
    the limits are difficulties of comprehension, as you say, and not of perceptual
    processing. \r\n\r\nPersonally, I think there may be only small improvements in
    readability possible in typeface design, though I think these are possible. The
    main thing for text design about knowing scientifically what is better and worse
    \ is that it would give guidance so the new design would be at least as good as
    the best out there now. And maybe slightly better. \r\n\r\nBut the benefits could
    be great in other areas. For example if the scientific testing showed that long
    measures were bad, the NSF wouldn't specify them. Forms would not have type too
    small or crowded. And screen manufacturers and font designers would know what
    realistically to shoot for. \r\n\r\nBut the fruits of research will be more marked
    in other areas. first of all in lay-out, if we knew how type size, based on x
    height, and leading relates to ideal line length, it would help avoid blunders
    in in newsletters, magazines, newspapers, the internet, etc. And similarly for
    many other variables. \r\n\r\nIn addition, there may be benefits for teaching
    reading and helping dyslexics--we don't know. \r\n\r\nOver all the justification
    for research into perceptual processing in reading is what Benjamin Franklin said.
    When asked of what use were his electrical researches--which then yielded only
    amusing gadgets, he said: \"Of what use is a new born baby?\" Of course later
    he invented the lightning rod, and then our whole modern economy became based
    on electricity. Reading research is still in the 'newborn baby' stage, I think.
    But there is plenty of reason to hope for helpful results.  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n  \r\n
    \  "
  created: '2006-10-26 15:11:42'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>or example a friend of mine was talking about the requirements for grant
    proposals for NSF. They are required to be a single column of 10 point Times New
    Roman, single spaced on letter sized paper.</em>\r\nIs there any guideline for
    margins? >^P\r\n\r\n<em>Maybe the limits are difficulties of comprehension, as
    you say, and not of perceptual processing.</em>\r\nSo for research, there should
    be different levels of complexity of texts for testign purposes as well? Perhaps
    one text that only incorporates the commonest of words and information, and then
    sets of texts that progress in complexity of vocabularity and concept? This may
    be the hardest variable to isolate?"
  created: '2006-10-26 15:58:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> there may be only small improvements in readability possible in typeface
    design\r\n\r\nI agree, in terms of percentage. But it is over the length of a
    book, or the inadequancy of lighting, etc. that this small amount can make or
    break things, or at the very least improve one's life a bit. In fact it's not
    really about finishing that long book an hour or two earlier, it's about quality
    of life. And this is the sort of thing that tends to escape formal science, often
    leading its practitioners to become detached from people at large, and thus being
    dismissed by them. To me, a good scientist is first of all a wise person.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-26 16:12:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"In fact it\u2019s not really about finishing that long book an hour or
    two earlier, it\u2019s about quality of life.\"\r\n\r\nThat is exactly it in a
    nut shell. I just wonder if we truly know what we are measuring.  We know there
    are eye movements; we know the quantity and type of movement can vary.  I have
    yet to see how this is extrapolated into a better or worse reading experience
    though and if so, how much better ot worse?\r\n\r\nLine length (based on character
    count) has long been known to affect reading.  This is not something the type
    designer can control, only the typesetter/user--in William's scenario, perhaps
    the czar who decrees the oversized measure :-) Tinker's testing, the testing from
    the Royal College, and every other one I know has shown the long line length to
    be a killer of reader comfort. Strange that the NSF Grants Czar does not believe
    in research.\r\n\r\nI think we need 2 sets of variables to test. One set would
    be aimed at the design of type.  The other set would be aimed at the configuration
    of type on a page or screen. The target in one case is a type designer and the
    other is a graphic designer.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-26 16:41:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well <cite>we</cite> only need the former. Hey, it's already hard\r\nenough
    to get their attention - don't give them choices!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-26 16:47:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The research that I am aware of generally seems to be predicated on new typeface
    development, whether it is for fast reading on computer screens, or a dyslexia
    project. These seem able to get the funding.\r\n\r\nBut surely it would be better
    to test exisiting types, and to have independent researchers tackle the same problem
    so that we can get some proper scientific peer review.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nHaving
    said that (which is to say, I am all for learning more about how things work and
    why), I don't believe that a physiological understanding of reading has more than
    a very oblique theoretical relevance to type design. Numerical method is most
    useful in product development and testing, ie technology, not in providing general
    scientific principles that will improve or validate the process of everyday typography
    or type design."
  created: '2006-10-26 16:55:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Where \"everyday\" means mainstream, commercial, etc. I agree. You don't
    try to optimize type for money, that's for sure (heck, it's hard enough to just
    <cite>make</cite> type for money). And you don't do it to please the masses (consciously).
    You do it because you respect the craft, and care about the user. Like Peter said
    (elsewhere) it's not for everybody (and I don't mind that one bit).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-26 16:59:54'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Perhaps we need to distinguish between \"brute' and 'fine' issues. Brute
    issues are issues of size and leading and line length and consistency of spacing
    and choice of <em>type</em> of type that measurably affect the <em>sustainability</em>
    (with good comprehension and enjoyment) <em>of the perceptual-attentional connection</em>
    with the text. We could call these: perceptual text-navigational processing issues
    and develop measures for them.\r\n\r\nFine issues relate to adjustments or manipulations
    of contrast, construction, spacing that may be minor or hard to detect in perceptual
    text-navigational processing (base-level readability) terms but show an advantage
    in visual word-form resolutional terms, because they reduce superfluous spikes
    in the retinal and neural receptive field.\r\n____________\r\n\r\nFor dyslexia,
    we need an idea of what the problem is to do product development and testing.
    Is the problem rooted in a perceptual processing deficit or a phonological processing
    deficit or both, or one as a consequence ot the other. And if the deficit is a
    perceptual processing one is it because of the structure of the script, an error
    in pedagogy or a neurological-anatomical deficit?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-10-26 17:48:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The discussion of perceptual processing vs cognitive understanding of text
    here gave me a new idea. Maybe the best way to discriminate better and worse readability
    is with material that is cognitively very difficult for the reader. Then changes
    to a worse type design or graphic design would be the 'straw that broke the camel's
    back' so to speak. \r\n\r\nIn other words, when the material is cognitively easy,
    the taxing character of the type or layout is will not be so easy to measure,
    but near the borderline, or breakdown into very slow reading or abandonment  will
    be more evident. \r\n\r\nWhat do you think Kevin? "
  created: '2006-10-26 18:06:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "On the contrary, we need easy material - but we also need very good testing.\r\n\r\nUnnatural
    stimuli cannot yield good insights into natural processes such as immersion. When
    the reader is reading very slowly because the material is hard, the high-speed
    stuff we're looking at understanding doesn't not come into play. This is in fact
    the core problem with existing testing. But Kevin might in fact agree with you
    because from what I gather he doesn't see the immersion, he sees it as one \"linear\"
    black box so to speak.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-26 18:12:21'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> But we need to understand why in biological terms a specific drug
    works and how they work in combination. </cite> - Peter\r\n\r\nI agree 100%. Which
    is why I am so interested in your work. In fact I think it was it my relative
    satisfaction with your ideas about this question which made additional perameters
    of success so compelling. It seemed ( perhaps falsely ) that the one thing lacking
    for your theories to be tested properly was a broader, richer, more detailed,
    and maybe more commonsensical view of what typographic success would be composed
    of. What would this increased quality of life, as Hrant would have it, look like?
    I don't mean that this lack was your but rather ours. Chris' & Williams' posts
    clearly got me.\r\n\r\nI may have been overly severe in my post by divorcing pure
    theory ( which what it seems like you have emphasized ) from hypothesis' about
    how we might measure success in type. Maybe I am wrong in thinking that bringing
    in the variable of Comprehension clarifies things. Maybe it just adds a new variable.
    A new chore. What do you think? \r\n\r\nDoes your theory about perceptual and
    neuro-physical mechanics of reading as well as the salient feature set ( how am
    I doing here?) available to be processed; suggest particular a theory of salient
    measurement as well? In other words- what besides speed would you like to see
    measured? Perhaps none of the meta-measurements is relevant. Perhaps it is just
    \ mico-measurements to seek & confirm salient features that you feel we need instead.\r\n\r\nI
    really do want to know.\r\n\r\nBTW - Nice post Carl!\r\n\r\nNick, What do you
    mean by 'Numerical method '?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-26 18:22:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Numerical method: quantitative analysis.'
  created: '2006-10-26 18:26:08'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "By the way, do you know that elementary schools are open to such testing
    and education?\r\n\r\nI heard this problem some time ago, firsthand, where a teacher
    complained about how the existing typeface (\"a Times or an Arial\", she said)
    hampered the readability and comprehension of her students. I supposed it has
    to do with sizes rather than letterform, but this is pure speculation.\r\n\r\nShe
    then mused about how almost every teacher in her school felt that way, and that
    they will benefit by having a \"font advisor\" come in and train them to effectively
    use type. Not necessarily to achieve the most aesthetically pleasing setting,
    but ultimately to improve the kids' reading comprehension level. \r\n\r\nAbout
    the ease of getting through the school board bureaucracy, she said, \"some of
    the board members are already aware of such concern\". I didn't know if this meant
    anything or not.\r\n\r\nIs there any school teacher that care to enlighten us?
    Otherwise, we'll just go straight to the school board and go from there :)"
  created: '2006-10-26 18:47:02'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "So, I've got a personal mystery (which might add another unnecessary dimension
    to this) that I'm trying to solve.\r\n\r\nI get motion sickness pretty bad. I
    can't read on any moving vehicle\u2014 I'm talking \"barfy.\" In the last few
    months I've realized that I can read the Washington Post Express on a train on
    my way to work with little discomfort.\r\n\r\nI saw this as a victory for myself
    and thought that maybe I <em>was</em> able to read on a moving subway car if I
    was standing up. Yesterday I tried to read a paperback book...and, um I got \"barfy.\"
    However, I seemed to read at my normal speed perhaps even faster than usual, but
    I still got sick.\r\n\r\nWhy would I be able to read the Washington Post Express,
    without feeling sick, but not a paperback? \r\n\r\nThis had me thinking, could
    a typeface be made for people with motion sickness to eliminate reading discomfort?
    Anyway...a personal puzzle that I thought might be of use here."
  created: '2006-10-26 19:00:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Why would I be able to read the Washington Post Express,\r\n> without feeling
    sick, but not a paperback?\r\n\r\nMy guess is the larger newspaper blocked more
    of the (moving) background from your view. Sort of an extension of the benefit
    of wide margins.\r\n\r\n> could a typeface be made for people with motion sickness\r\n\r\nInteresting!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-26 19:03:48'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<em>The idea here would be to develop an understanding of the perceptual
    and neuro-physical mechanics of reading that is detailed enough to make plain
    why the things that typographers and type designers know are critical or worth
    attending to, are indeed critical and worth attending to, like spacing.</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    makes a lot of sense, but perhaps the question should be framed differently: one
    should be completely open to the possibility that \"the things that typographers
    and type designers know are critical\" may not be critical after all. It's difficult
    enough to conduct good research without biases; it's almost impossible if the
    researcher is bent on proving his beliefs to be true.\r\n\r\n<em>But what has
    intrigued me most about this thread is not the pure theory or the atomization
    of type factors - it\u2019s the ideas people have had about alternatives to pure
    speed for measuring type success.</em>\r\n\r\nEfficiency and effectiveness (or
    efficacy) are different things, but I've been wondering how effectiveness can
    be measured. Surely measures of comprehension and retention have a lot more to
    do with the reader's familiarity with the subject and all sorts of cognitive processes
    unrelated to visual processing?\r\n\r\n<em>I don\u2019t believe that a physiological
    understanding of reading has more than a very oblique theoretical relevance to
    type design. Numerical method is most useful in product development and testing,
    ie technology, not in providing general scientific principles that will improve
    or validate the process of everyday typography or type design.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat
    method, then, would be appropriate for such an investigation? Ethnography? Wouldn't
    the goal be to arrive at universal conclusions? In the end, if the goal is to
    produce generalizable conclusions, one cannot run from statistics and numbers.\r\n\r\n<em>it
    should be type designers (experienced, thorough, open-minded ones), not students,
    brain scientists or linguists who develop them.</em>\r\n\r\nBut perhaps brain
    scientists and/or linguists should be allowed to test them? Type designers would
    certainly be better equipped to choose what factors should be isolated and tested.
    But scientists from other fields would perhaps be in a better position to analyse
    how those factors actually affect reading."
  created: '2006-10-26 19:26:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>What method, then, would be appropriate for such an investigation?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    don't believe any method would be appropriate. Some things are not susceptible
    to quantitative analysis. This concerns the principle of demarcation between science
    and pseudo science. "
  created: '2006-10-26 19:44:11'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Nick, I agree with your point ( if I have it) that testing factors in reading,
    type, comprehension etc is more likely to benefit a technology company well before
    it will help a type design company. And even graphic designers before type designers.
    And ideally school kids before us too. But I am still not sure I completely get
    what you are saying. Are you saying that such research might have oblique relevance
    to type design or no relevance to type design whatsoever? The phrase 'suceptible
    to quantitaive analysis' suggests a kind of binary model that seems too simple
    to me. It's not a question I think of 'either' & 'or' so much as a question of
    'also' & 'and'.
  created: '2006-10-26 20:15:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Scientists have been studying the Stradivarius violin for decades, trying
    to figure out why it sounds so good and to see if modern technology can replicate
    the instrument design using all the modern marvels we have available.  So far,
    they have failed.\r\nThe technology used by Stradaveri was knocking on wood\u2014literally.
    He would carve a basic shape with simple hand tools and knock on the wood in various
    places, listening for that certain sound that his ears could recognize as \"correct\".
    \ He would carve and knock, carve and knock at his slab of wood until it was right.
    Scans and X-rays instruments reveal that no two are alike in modulation of thickness.
    \ The assumption is that each piece of wood needed its own variation in thickness
    to resonate sound properly. Stradaveri used his ears and knuckles in the same
    way that punch cutters used their eyes and smoke tests.  Tinker a bit then look
    then tinker some more.  The human mind and senses are just incredible. Sometimes
    we might just have to say, in this hi-tech world, that humans have abilities which
    are not reproducible by machine and this is \"OK\"!\r\nShould scientists close
    up shop? Absolutely not! But once in a graet great, it is OK to just cry \"uncle\".\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-26 20:26:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">But once in a graet great, it is OK to just cry \u201Cuncle\u201D.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?articleID=000BD557-2293-1CFD-93F6809EC5880000\">No.
    </a>"
  created: '2006-10-26 20:51:42'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "All the inquiry into fonts would do is create substantiated, predictable
    facets to use when designing fonts. NO harm in having that in my toolbox, when
    I glue something together around the house, I appreciate science leading to a
    consistent range of dry-times based on the environment.\r\n\r\nSo much of these
    proposed scientific inquiries are based on legibility=speed=succes. This suggests
    a hunt for \"the one true font\". Yuck-that explains some of the designer resistince.
    There are a lot of other factors we all might be intersted in. Do certian existing
    fonts lend themselves to increased comprehension of exact data? Of overall comprehension
    and recall? People often visualize words to recall spellings, dates, etc. What
    fonts do the mind use? Are there fonts that purposely slow down reading speed
    and does that have a use? Is kerning simply aesthetic, or can it alternate kerning
    profiles predictably change the meaning of a message?\r\n\r\nDo people learn to
    write foreign laguages better in certain typefaces? Can they? Some faces are inappropriate
    for body text, while similar ones are great. Is there exact calculatable figure
    predicting where the change is?\r\n\r\nThen there is the idea of letterforms themselves.
    Would a font where each letter contextually joined to the \"starting spot\" of
    the next letter help? Arrowed serifs, non-baseline oriented fonts? These all sound
    like wacky ideas, but without numbers to confirm that we run on gut.\r\n\r\nThere
    are dozens more of ideas, and new ones will spawn from research. Sounds like something
    for a University to have fun with. For a long time. Remember, we still down even
    know much about a cat's purr.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-10-26 20:52:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> \u201Cthe one true font\u201D </cite>\r\n\r\nFear of a 'one true font'
    where the industry is concerned is of course poppycock. Fear of an editorial board
    on a magazine beleiving in it is likewise. Fear of government offices or the odd
    small client getting religion about a 'one true font' & becoming a pain to work
    with might possibly be justified. But even there... designers have a rough time
    getting their clients to stick to agreed plans already! I can't seem to worry
    about that 'issue' at all. Fear of people bleating on about stuff which is just
    silly is something we will all just have to deal with. That's never going to stop."
  created: '2006-10-26 21:50:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "We already went through the \"One true font\" phase, it was called Helvetica.
    I don't think that will be revisited any time soon.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-26 22:28:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The phrase \u2018suceptible to quantitaive analysis\u2019 suggests a
    kind of binary model that seems too simple to me.</em>\r\n\r\nI said some things
    are not susceptible, which doesn't mean that there aren't many things that may
    be susceptible to varying degrees."
  created: '2006-10-26 22:50:37'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "Chris (& everyone else),\r\n\r\nYou make the point that Stradivari was a
    master craftsmen that achieved near-perfection not by mathematical calculations
    or by reading scientific treatises on violin engineering. He just \"played it
    by ear\", quite literally.\r\n\r\nFirst of all, I would remark that his method
    (according to you -- I don't really know anything about Stradivari) is used even
    in computer science. Some problems, particularly complex systems (http://typophile.com/node/28777/164470),
    have so many variables that they cannot be solved by means of equations -- or
    at least not without ridiculous amounts of time and processing power. Or the variables
    may be known, but exactly how they interact (i.e. the equations) is not known.\r\n\r\nIn
    such cases, solutions may be worked out by trial and error: knock, carve, knock.
    For instance, when the equations used by a certain encryption method are very
    complex and too many variables (such as the original characters) are unknown,
    the computer may try to crack a password by attempting different combinations
    sequentially.\r\n\r\nAnother approach in computer science is to use <a href=\"http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/~russell/aima1e/chapter02.pdf\"
    target=\"_blank\">swarms of \"intelligent\" agents</a>: each agent, which in a
    way represents a variable in a complex system, is programmed to behave in a certain
    way; the agents are left to fend for themselves, and the results are recorded.\r\n\r\nThe
    reason, then, that almost no things human -- such as reading -- can be solved
    or controlled through \"pure science\" is because there are too many variables
    and equations, many of them unknown. What the master craftsman does is use his
    experience -- those missing variables and equations -- and the trial-and-error
    methodology to create solutions. This is a task that can probably never be accomplished
    through \"pure science\", simply because all the variables and equations known
    by all master craftsmen (and women) will probably never be recorded and codified
    in a usable way.\r\n\r\nHowever, the knowledge and experience of the master craftsman
    has limitations, in the sense that those variables and equations in his brain
    are specific to his culture, habits etc. While scientific research is no substitute
    for the master craftsman and woman, it can certainly help them make better decisions
    and judgements, and even try different solutions that go against their personal
    beliefs.\r\n\r\nIs this more or less what you were saying?"
  created: '2006-10-26 22:58:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You guys don't understand. It's <cite>Nick</cite> what's not susceptible\r\nto
    quantitative analysis. Or really just analysis, period.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-26 22:59:23'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[there are too many things to address in previous post, and I like a lot
    of what is said in many of them, including those of the 'new' voices]\r\n\r\n[Chris]
    2 sets of variables to test\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/map_of_reading_4174.jpg]\r\n\r\nEric
    I am suggesting approaching the field with my type-craft-generated attunements
    and biases, and elaborating them in perceptual processing terms to the point where
    I can test if the need to be rejected. \r\n\r\nNick, the important part of science
    is not the numerical analysis, but what conclusions are drawn from it. As you
    insist, there are many things that can't be effectively quantified (comprehension;
    gestural atmospheric import; readability), but you can gauge--sometimes numerically--some
    of their manifestations, or some of their determinants. The manifestations have
    to be indicative of something, so we abstract and study possible determinants.\r\n\r\nEben,
    I think plain old reading speed is too crude a metric for gauging the effects
    of manipulating typographical micro-variables, even it over the space of a large
    text read in one sitting my manipulation reduces the time it takes to get through
    the passage. I have no way of telling whether all the other possible things that
    contribute to reading speed have been controlled. The types of tests I'm trying
    to get a bead on involve fourier transforms, gauging the advantage to speed of
    recognition of various kinds of 'priming', assessing the impact of various manipulations
    on the magnitude of the Word Superiority Effect, ideal observer modeling of neuromechanical
    flow-through where lateral interference is represented and slot processing is
    allowed or prohibited.\r\n\r\nThe best measures of typographical success are probably
    anecdotal. Other than that all we can do is try and pinpoint what part of the
    map of reading varying this or that addresses.\r\n____________________\r\n\r\nComments
    about my graphic:\r\n1) The competant reader has abilities at every level\r\n2)
    Some levels are more impacted by culture, education, familiarity and sensitivity
    than others\r\n3) Variations at every level affect all the others in some degree
    over some extent, and they affect the sustainability and satisfactoriness of our
    engagement with the text over time.\r\n\r\nWhen we say x improves readability
    I want to know what is meant in functional anatomical or perceptual-mechanical
    or gestural atmospheric terms."
  created: '2006-10-26 23:08:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "http: I guess my <a href=\"//www.sciam.com/article.cfm?articleID=000BD557-2293-1CFD-93F6809EC5880000\">link</a>
    above was too subtle. The point is that Prof. Nagyvary has more successfully than
    ever before been able to create violins that sound like the Stradavarius' violins.
    And he has been able to do it by combining his discoveries in chemistry with traditional
    craft skills. Similarly, scientific research in reading might help inform and
    strengthen the artistry of those who draw type, so that the results are better.
    \ \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-26 23:17:44'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "Peter (Enneson),\r\n\r\nIf you've published any articles on subjects relevant
    to this thread, could you please tell me where they can be found? I feel that
    I need to study some more to be able to exchange ideas with you (and so many other
    knowledgeable people).\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nErik"
  created: '2006-10-26 23:17:54'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Q: Is it better to conduct studies with easy or challenging content?\r\n\r\nTheoretically,
    improved type design and paragraph layout should have the same impact on easy
    or difficult text. Improved type design and paragraph layout work to improve the
    word recognition process, and easy word recognition is beneficial no matter what
    the content. If you were interested in organizational factors like providing good
    headings, then this is certainly more relevant to the more challenging text.\r\n\r\nIn
    practice it\u2019s difficult to find appropriate content difficulty. If you use
    content that is too challenging (i.e. having an expert in literature read a physics
    textbook) then you\u2019ll find that the time to read will increase dramatically,
    and reading speed differences will be determined more by the number of times a
    person needed to reread long passages than by any typographic differences. If
    content is too easy (i.e. having a professor of physics read a high school physics
    textbook) then the reader is likely to scan the text rather than truly read it.\r\n\r\nAnother
    challenge is that reading performance differs from person to person, so I prefer
    to have the same person read text from each of the typographic conditions being
    examined. This means that more than one sample of content is necessary, and it\u2019s
    desirable to have them of equal difficulty so it doesn\u2019t impact the results
    (though counterbalancing the passages reduced this problem).\r\n\r\nEvery study
    is open to criticism, so I think it\u2019s best to do something that\u2019s good
    enough and document what you did.\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin"
  created: '2006-10-27 01:40:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Erik,\r\nI think you have said pretty much what I was trying to say. Thank
    you for your elaboration. Like you and William, I feel the need for collaboration
    between science and craft (and whatever you would call human abilities to interpret,
    solve, and create). I do feel there is a danger from both the arenas though. Humans
    interpret data; humans set up testing procedures; humans define criteria and devise
    theories to prove or disprove.  All of these things can involve human error and
    provide a sense of being \"correct\" just because it was science. The other side
    is human hubris and self assurance that \"it is my art, therefore it must be great\".
    Neither art nor science should be accepted without question. We always need to
    be humble enough to listen to other voices even if what we hear does not fit our
    own theory or our own ego. \r\n\r\nPeter,\r\nI much like your model! You at least
    seem to have included the meat of the issues.  The dilemma is sorting out the
    interaction of effects.  If I say reading is a function of all of your variables,
    I still have the hard job of measuring how they interact.  I might look at one
    variable sometimes a\\nd the cumulative effect of all of them at other times.
    \ Making the quantum leap to what to extrapolate from it is the devil of it all.
    I still don't see how we can remove deriving meaning from the act of perception
    of forms and decoding signs.\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-27 01:46:31'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Chris asked:\r\n\u201CMy question is, how do we know when saccades are duplicated
    or regression occurs if this is due to inability to decipher the letterforms and
    words (reading) or an inability to understand what the author is trying to say.
    I hope Kevin can clarify what he said because I may not have gotten it right.\u201D\r\n\r\nThere
    is a lot of ongoing research investigating the cause of saccades, including developing
    models trying to predict when they are going to occur. Some regressive saccades
    are caused by content problems. For example, if I read \u201CThe horse raced past
    the barn fell\u201D, I can guarantee a regressive saccade after reading the word
    fell. It\u2019s less likely to happen if I write \u201CThe horse that was raced
    past the barn fell\u201D and even less likely if I precede it with a story about
    two horses that were raced down different paths, one near a barn. Other regressive
    saccades are likely caused by word level problems. In some of our eye tracking
    studies looking at ClearType versus b/w rendering we have seen reductions in regressive
    saccades indicating that letter quality can improve the mechanics of reading.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-27 01:54:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Theoretically, improved type design and paragraph layout should have the
    same impact on easy or difficult text. \r\n\r\nYes, this seems reasonable to me.
    However, what I am thinking of is a threshold kind of effect may be operating.
    I had suggested that one might measure reading comfort (actually discomfort) by
    decline in comprehension with time. My suspicion is that what John Hudson calls
    'readerability' can compensate a for a lot of less than optimal conditions by
    an increased investment of mental effort. \r\n\r\nThus less than optimal type
    design or layout would barely show up or not at all in a short test--it would
    be wiped out by increased mental effort of the subject. But if the person were
    pushed by reading relatively difficult content for a longer period, then you would
    see a sharp decline of comprehension--and perhaps speed as well--at markedly different
    times for better and worse conditions, when mental fatigue set in. \r\n\r\nDo
    you see what I am getting at Kevin? Does it make sense?"
  created: '2006-10-27 02:05:13'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Erik: See my \"Thesseloniki\" text printed in <a href=\"http://www.enneson.com/public_downloads/pe/13_typo_2005.pdf\"><em>Typo#13</em></a>
    along with one of Kevin's and one of Hrant's.\r\n\r\nChris: I don't \"remove meaning
    from the act of perception of forms\". The graphic merely isolates relevant areas
    of functioning. I claim that encapsulated with the neural code for the visual
    wordform \"x\" is a meaning, or 'node' in our personal construct system, as well
    as a spelling and a phonetic signature. At each visual wordform resolutional event
    a node or meaning is directly accessed and placed (as it were) within the sense-following
    stream."
  created: '2006-10-27 02:17:20'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Ah, well, this constituted a majority slice of my Masters thesis.  Colours,
    fonts, size, icons, blahblahblah.\r\n\r\nConclusion: yes, there are optimal combinations
    that work for most people.  Are they readable to everyone?  No, because there's
    always a trade-off in what works best, and no enforced standards in non-language
    communication methods (icons!).\r\n\r\nAnd has been pointed out, then there's
    \"comprehension\" and \"cultural standards\"....\r\n\r\nErik used the term \"Pandora's
    box\" and that pretty much sums it up.\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-10-27 02:28:10'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Is there a problem with reading?\r\n\r\nI was going to respond to this, but
    I think I would just repeat everything William said. I\u2019ll add that most of
    the current reading research isn\u2019t predicated on solving any problem at all,
    but rather for the pure interest in understanding how our brain works.\r\n\r\nNick
    wrote:\r\n\u201CNumerical method is most useful in product development and testing,
    ie technology, not in providing general scientific principles that will improve
    or validate the process of everyday typography or type design.\u201D\r\n\r\nActually
    I think it\u2019s just the opposite. Statistical analysis and computer modeling
    are a part of nearly all scientific studies of reading. I can\u2019t recall seeing
    a study of reading in a psychological journal that didn\u2019t contain statistics.
    The use of ethnographic research and other qualitative measures are more likely
    to be part of product design.\r\n\r\nNick wrote:\r\n\u201CI don\u2019t believe
    any method would be appropriate. Some things are not susceptible to quantitative
    analysis. This concerns the principle of demarcation between science and pseudo
    science.\u201D\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t understand you. If we measure that people read
    faster with a particular typographic condition, doesn\u2019t that tell us that
    reading changes when you change the typographic condition? We can argue about
    the meaning of the reading speed change, but the reading speed change becomes
    a fact. \r\n"
  created: '2006-10-27 02:53:15'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Choz wrote:\r\n\u201CSo much of these proposed scientific inquiries are based
    on legibility=speed=succes. This suggests a hunt for \u201Cthe one true font\u201D.\u201D\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    certainly in the camp that argues that there is a relationship between speed and
    legibility, but I don\u2019t want one font to rule them all. I don\u2019t see
    any conflict between wanting to have a better understanding of legibility and
    to also want diverse, interesting, and beautiful typefaces.\r\n\r\nWilliam wrote:\r\n\u201CThus
    less than optimal type design or layout would barely show up or not at all in
    a short test\u201D\r\n\r\nWilliam, I understand your comprehension measure and
    it might be very useful. It\u2019s hard to know without trying it. Similarly,
    it\u2019s an empirical question if optimal type design will show up in a short
    test. If we\u2019re able to detect differences in a short test, than it is showing
    up. If we fail to test differences in a short test, then they might show up in
    a longer test. The opposite is also true.\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin"
  created: '2006-10-27 03:10:05'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "Crikey! You all could talk the leg off an iron pot! Are any of youse actaully
    going to gang up and have a real crack at it???\r\n\r\nMuzz"
  created: '2006-10-27 03:45:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The use of ethnographic research and other qualitative measures are more
    likely to be part of product design.</em>\r\n\r\nBut isn't your work at Microsoft
    closely connected with getting measurable results for ClearType? At least, that
    is the impression I got from the ClearType documentary video, that Bill Gates
    OK'd the project on the understanding that it would produce \"real\" (ie measurable)
    results?\r\n\r\n<em>We can argue about the meaning of the reading speed change,
    but the reading speed change becomes a fact.</em>\r\n\r\nThe distinction is between
    quantitative description, which is a foregone conclusion if measurements are taken,
    and the usefulness of those measurements. If a theory of reading is to hold any
    water, one should be able to apply it to any given typeface, take a series of
    measurements of different parameters of that face, and predict reading speed.
    \r\n\r\nKevin, you state that type size effects reading speed, but that is not
    a scientific proposition, as there is no objective way of measuring type size.
    Of course, for any given typeface, it is possible to measure its readability apropos
    its nominal \"type size\" as decided by the type designer, and determine which
    set size is optimal for, say, speed, but would the same results hold for different
    line lengths, different leading, different texts, and so on? And for other typefaces?
    There are too many variables to make a predictive science out of readability. "
  created: '2006-10-27 05:49:32'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>&gt;Theoretically, improved type design and paragraph layout should have
    the same impact on easy or difficult text.\r\n\r\nYes, this seems reasonable to
    me. </em>\r\n\r\nA little devil's advocation...\r\n\r\nSounds reasonable to me,
    but are there controlled studies to back that up? It makes sense to me, but is
    there a scientific rationale? Pluto's a plannet, that sounds reasonable too. Common
    sense says that easy-to-read is easy-to-read. However, it may be easier to read
    short, familiar, or simplistic text in a highly vertical font, and denser material
    in a squatter font. If there aren't verified results, the opposite might be true.
    Our assumptions have a grave impact on the results of scientific theory, and a
    lot of assumptions appear to be already made about letterforms and typefaces.
    Social sciences are the toughest ones.\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\nA scientific understanding
    of reading, and typography will not come cheap, I am sure. A lot of money is spent
    in other fields of science in anticipation of gaining <strong>technology</strong>.
    This attracts private and public sector, and they have no idea what this level
    of inquiry might benefit them. Some may understand surprises come from pure research,
    but type isn't exactly weapons reasearch.\r\n\r\nThere are a lot of other things
    I mentioned besides the 'One true font' silliness. I hope that people consider
    my suspicions on typeface affecting retention, learning, etc.\r\n\r\nSpeaking
    of the above, I realize there isn't and will never be one true font. Sorta. Typefaces
    will continue to move off paper and onto screens, screens will improve in dpi,
    and telecommunications will leave once separate countries even more integrated.
    This is hardly a prediction. Without any research, a small set, based on designers
    refining extisting faces by eye, market forces, and popular feedback has begun
    to emerge. Time, inertia and cultural intermeshing will make this smaller set
    dominant, unless research provides a reason why those who pay for fonts should
    get something different.\r\n\r\nAnything that breaks the traditional, trained
    flow that we have while reading causes people to stop. Painfully, for some, it
    seems.~ But what else can a new face offer besides variations on the existing
    themes? What technology can we create? What can we make them do? Or shall we continue
    with the status quo until mechanical changes again invent new type?\r\n\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">Choose the Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-10-27 07:22:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">If we fail to test differences in a short test, then they might show up
    in a longer test. The opposite is also true.\r\n\r\nI just think that if my suggestion
    of measuring discomfort by decreasing comprehension with time turns out to be
    at all useful, a test with difficult material and longer time is more likely to
    get clear results. \r\n\r\nThis is because I think the brain has robust and redundant
    and adaptable systems for comprehension of text. We can read right through misspellings,
    reversed letters etc with comprehension. Hence to detect the more and less ideal
    layouts and designs it might be advantageous to create conditions that defeat
    that adaptability first.\r\n\r\nI don't know if the idea is valid, but it seems
    to me worth trying to see if it helps. For if it is right it will lead to a more
    ready discrimination of better and worse designs from the point of view of readibility.
    \  \r\n\r\n>There are too many variables to make a predictive science out of readability.\r\n\r\nThe
    'too many variables' is a regular argument against scientific research. Following
    this argument we would also abandon medical research. The human body has myriads
    of variables, but we still manage to gain scientific insights into the way the
    body works and to cure disease. If you look at the history of science, every problem
    looks like it has too many variables until you understand them. When you have
    good theories and crucial tests that isolate variables, then real progress is
    made. "
  created: '2006-10-27 15:24:18'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Choz] \"...money spent [...] in anticipation of gaining...\"\r\n\r\nIf it
    can be shown that a perceptual learning process establishes  or puts in place
    \ a new neural processing routine (one <em>not</em> dependant on letter-level
    'slot processing' but on detection of the specific pattern of blacks and whites
    at the stems / diagonals / bowls / counters level of the whole-word object); and
    that this learning process <em>must</em> occur for the learning reader not to
    get hung up in phonological \"disambiguation overhead\"* problems (especially
    in a non-transparent orthography) associated with learning to read; and that this
    learning process is facilitated by \"rhythmic\" spacing (because rhythmic spacing
    sets up a relationship of whites and a relationship of blacks at the stems / diagonals
    / bowls / counters level that is unfriendly to slotting activation of receptor
    cells according to letter) the consequences might be huge in terms of literacy
    and its discontents.\r\n\r\nAnd well-set type is the catalyst.\r\n\r\nGates is
    enough of a philanthropist to like such a consequence of good typography at the
    location where most kids spend much of their reading time.\r\n\r\n* See David
    Boulton's line of questioning in the interviews <a href=\"http://www.childrenofthecode.org/interviews/whitehurst.htm\">here.</a>
    Search under  'disambiguation'. (Also check out the other interviesws linked at
    the bottom. In many of them the same line of questioning is pursued.)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-10-27 15:34:31'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: '[I lightly edited my last post (with a few new words and semicolons) for
    clarity.][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]'
  created: '2006-10-27 15:56:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> A scientific understanding of reading, and typography will not come cheap\r\n\r\nLuckily
    Kevin works at this little company called MS.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-27 17:14:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The \u2018too many variables\u2019 is a regular argument against scientific
    research.</em>\r\n\r\n<em>When you have good theories and crucial tests that isolate
    variables, then real progress is made.</em>\r\n\r\nBill, not only are there too
    many variables, they change all the time, and on the question of isolating them,
    that's impossible. As I previously mentioned, Kevin has been investigating \"type
    size\", but without an objective scientific measure of what that is. Heck, there
    isn't even a consensus on what \"en\" size is (<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/27742\">as
    was revealed in a recent Typophile thread</a>).\r\n\r\nIn health, gazillions of
    dollars and man hours have been spent analyzing the workings of the human body,
    and yet many areas of health still remain soft, mental health in particular being
    a bone of contention.\r\n\r\nIt would be an absolutely massive project to scientifically
    determine the way that reading works, in relation to the varfiety of typefaces
    and the population at large, and then it would need updating every few years as
    cultures evolve.\r\n\r\nI would not be so skeptical if our leading researchers
    were actually able to isolate and measure type size -- or to come up with an index
    of readability based on a formula connecting different measurable parameters of
    typefaces. But as has been pointed out repeatedly by typographers, different typefaces
    have different sizes on the body. So to base scientific theory on what is an arbitrary,
    designer-defined designation of size is, IMO, not only ignorant (of typography)
    but bogus.\r\n\r\nThere is no phylogenic structure, driven by genetic agents,
    in the classification of types -- it is an entirely cultural phenomenon which
    cannot be discovered and ordered as the biological world may be. So your analogy
    with health is not apt.\r\n\r\nAnd I'll pull the classic pseudo-science physiognomy
    out of the bag again. It was assumed by some that there was a connection between
    cranial measurements and intelligence. Might not the same be true of readability
    research, that there is no hard and fast connection between type measurements
    and readability -- which is, after all, just as nebulous a concept as intelligence?"
  created: '2006-10-27 18:10:21'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Nick] \"There is no phylogenic structure, driven by genetic agents, in the
    classification of types\" Don't say that to Robert Bringhurst. His articles in
    Hosek's now defunct <em>Serif</em> try to do just that. See his argument in the
    introductory piece.\r\n\r\nIt <em>is</em> impossible to quantify the variables
    along their different axis in such a way that we can predict the effect of every
    move we make in such a way that when we are asked for [2% faster] you can just
    go to [parameter: contrast] and reduce it at [stem and bowl point \"y\"] and adjust
    by [\"z\"].\r\n\r\nIt is possible to say--or so I hope to have confirmed at some
    point in my journey--that rhythmic spacing sets up the right word-shape conditions
    to keep visual wordform resolution robust, so please attend to it with proper
    care, and let the need to optimize it guide your actions in shaping your glyph
    set."
  created: '2006-10-27 18:25:17'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Nick wrote:\r\n\u201CAs I previously mentioned, Kevin has been investigating
    \u201Ctype size\u201D, but without an objective scientific measure of what that
    is. Heck, there isn\u2019t even a consensus on what \u201Cen\u201D size is (as
    was revealed in a recent Typophile thread).\u201D\r\n\r\nIn the type size thread,
    I was reporting Tinker\u2019s findings, not my own. To conduct a study on any
    variable you do need to define your variables. There may not be \u2018one\u2019
    way to define type size, but there are several ways. I believe that Tinker used
    nominal point sizes. I think everyone understands the difference between a 10
    point and 11 point Garamond. It\u2019s not necessary to reach a consensus on definitions
    to conduct a study; only to describe what you actually did. If someone else prefers
    x-height as the measure of type size, it\u2019s easy enough to convert from the
    10 point Garamond to that measure. No matter what definition of type size you
    use, the study itself is still scientific.\r\n\r\n \u201CAnd I\u2019ll pull the
    classic pseudo-science physiognomy out of the bag again. It was assumed by some
    that there was a connection between cranial measurements and intelligence.\u201D\r\n\r\nAssumptions
    are not science, they are theories. Now if a test shows that there is evidence
    to support a theory, then the theory starts to be interesting. If there is a lot
    of evidence, then it is more interesting. How sure are you that there is no relationship
    between cranial measurements and intelligence? People still study intelligence,
    even though there is certainly no universally accepted definition. There is good
    evidence of a correlation between cranial size and intelligence, and the evidence
    is even better if you measure just the brain size eliminating skull thickness.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-27 19:24:11'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: " \u201CLuckily Kevin works at this little company called MS.\u201D\r\n\r\nI
    appreciate your high opinion of me, but I stand little chance by myself of making
    much of a dent in understanding the effect of typography on reading. We need a
    community of people conducting such studies. We need a community for a couple
    reasons. First, it will take many, many people to conduct all the studies that
    have been discussed just in this thread. And what usually happens is that more
    questions open up as the knowledge in a field grows. Second, with a community
    there is valuable disagreement about the interpretations of studies, and about
    what should be done next. That diversity is very important.\r\n\r\nBecause of
    my particular biases, I plan to be doing a lot of work at the letter recognition
    level. I think this is the important key that is missing in the existing reading
    research field. Others on this thread disagree with me and think other areas will
    be more fruitful. Unfortunately I don\u2019t have the ability to go down all paths.\r\n\r\nI
    think the key is to build a bridge between the typography community and the reading
    psychology community. Reading psychologists would become interested in typographic
    research if it was clear that there were interesting questions to be asked which
    could also have a practical impact. Reading psychologists do need to learn about
    typography to work in this area (and certainly should not be modifying fonts themselves).
    Conversely, typographers should learn more about reading psychology and the large
    community of researchers doing work today (I am in awe of Peter for the work that
    he has done on this). It would help if typographers would attend reading psychology
    conferences to learn about their work and to build personal connections.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-27 19:47:08'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<em>This means that more than one sample of content is necessary, and it\u2019s
    desirable to have them of equal difficulty so it doesn\u2019t impact the results</em>\r\n\r\nHow
    can you ensure that different samples are of equal difficulty? And if you give
    the same sample to a number of people who will be viewing it for the first time,
    how do you ensure that they all have about the same education, eyesight etc etc
    etc? I guess the only way to arrive at generalizable conclusions is to have a
    very large number of test results, so that small differences between samples and
    between test subjects don't have a significant impact on the outcome.\r\n\r\n<em>My
    suspicion is that what John Hudson calls \u2018readerability\u2019 can compensate
    a for a lot of less than optimal conditions by an increased investment of mental
    effort.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat if mental effort could be measured and thus become a
    control variable? We need those brain scientists to tell us if this could be measured
    with little electrodes or some fancy brain scanning technology.\r\n\r\n<em>The
    \u2018too many variables\u2019 is a regular argument against scientific research.
    Following this argument we would also abandon medical research.</em>\r\n\r\nAbsolutely.
    Having too many variables doesn't mean the problem can't be tackled, it just means
    new methodologies are required. If you cannot control all the variables in turn,
    or don't even know what all the variables are, more traditional research methods
    may not yield results. Instead of ignoring some or most of the variables to make
    the experiment \"controllable\", it may be more fruitful to change the way the
    experiment is conducted."
  created: '2006-10-27 20:00:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Don\u2019t say that to Robert Bringhurst.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't have to.
    He acknowledges as much in the <em>Serif</em> article by asking \"Where are the
    genitalia? How do types reproduce themselves?\" He constructs a beautiful, elaborate
    metaphor based on biological taxonomy, but that is all it is, a poetic metaphor,
    prefaced by a great many apologies couched in learned terms, eg comparing oxymorons
    in botanical names to oxymoronic typeface names, and reference to the Principle
    of Perversity (related to Heisenberg) whereby type designers defy pigeonholing.
    As he admits, for something like this to become more of a science, a soft science,
    it has to have a global scope and get a lot of people involved in developing a
    consensus. But it's only type, and Myfonts, Veer and FontShop are independently
    calling the taxonomic shots with their choice of searchable keywords, which ain't
    exactly peer review. Although perhaps market forces will bring it all together."
  created: '2006-10-27 20:58:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I stand little chance by myself\r\n\r\nI agree. Which is why my opinion
    of you wouldn't be so high if you only had the smarts and the rich employer; the
    third key element is your propensity for listening. This is why I allow myself
    to hope that we can get you to change your mind about focusing on individual letters.\r\n\r\n>
    I am in awe of Peter\r\n\r\nMe too. I also like Eben, and Paul. They all harbor
    the Doubt so essential to progress. This is one thing I suggest should be integrated
    more deeply by yourself. None of our teachers were sufficiently correct - that's
    why we're still stuck here.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-27 21:18:01'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Nick, Robert's dead serious about seeing typographic variation as a branch
    of natural history. He sees the 'site' of the equivalents of sexual congress and
    genetic mutation as in the type designer's head. And one of the four feet of the
    type designer's head is in his or her hands. (See <em>The Typographic Mind</em>
    [Gaspereau Press, 2006] for this last bit.\r\n\r\nWhat do you do? You take the
    didoni genotype and introduce your own mutations, hopefully without straight phenotypical
    'lifting' from Bodoni. You introduce these mutations provoked by the new ecology
    of reading or printing or display in which they must survive. The genotype is
    in the public domain. Your phenotypical incarnation is your own.\r\n\r\n[Hrant,
    I blame you for starting me along this track; and Kevin, damn you for forcing
    me, by your resistence, to 'dash madly off in all directions'(in terms of my reading
    list). (And there are several others...) But really, I don't feel that I am 'there'
    yet; in fact, it is possible that I am dead wrong. Eventually I may sink in the
    sea of my own personal constructs. But for now I'll ride them til they crack.]"
  created: '2006-10-27 23:36:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Go for it Peter! we are proud of you!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-28 00:43:55'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Likewise!
  created: '2006-10-28 00:55:43'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "When we were discussing the Snark, it was quite important to people that
    the appearance strongly represent the conceptual meaning. I don't mind, but found
    it surprising, since the latin glyphs are pretty far from pictographic. Surprising
    in that even I wanted it to be a pictogaph of both sentence trermination more
    than competing proposals, and that I was tickled when others pointed out the wryness.\r\n\r\nI've
    been thinking about legibility, and how wide a range of shapes we can recognize
    as a given letter. I was also pondering is some letters are 'stronger' or more
    recognizable, such as how an 'o' matches the mouth's shape on a long 'o' sound,
    creating a fairly hard bit of wiring. Are some letters weak, and thier recognition
    sometimes only derived from process of elimination? Then, I mused on the possibilities
    of Opentype's contextual awareness. What if all the letters changed shape to assist
    in pronouciation, so that a shwa was an indeterminate metavowel-like shape?  Silent
    'k's or 'gh's could shrink and long vowels could be more geometric. y's descenders
    could be morphed above the bsaeline when it behaves as a vowel. All through substitution
    dictionariesunder languages preferences in the OT tables.\r\nTo go further, there
    are other things that could be done, adding whiskers to the 'a' in cat? Might
    assist cognition, might become a crutch.\r\n\r\nThe other thing I was pondering
    about legibility, is what is an 'a' or 'b', exactly, and is an 'a' or 'b' in one
    font as legible, but with a different meaning? This alone could be a long post,
    but I can't go there tonight.\r\n\r\nWe'd defininitely need stronger development
    software, and some readied  feature profiles for OT to use this regularly, but
    in scientific inquiry this might be interesting stuff to play with.\r\n\r\nMuzz-
    Don't worry, I've got several ideas in mind, but that's for another time. Like
    anyone, I gotta pay them bills first.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-10-28 03:06:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Robert\u2019s dead serious about seeing typographic variation as a branch
    of natural history.</em>\r\n\r\nI disagree with his premise, because typefaces
    aren't made by cross-breeding, in the designer's head or wherever. Robert's structure
    makes a lovely metaphorical parallel, but the mechanics aren't there.\r\n\r\nSpeaking
    of didones, I've done an adaptation of one, Bodoni Egyptian, but I didn't cross-breed
    Bodoni with another typeface. I used GB's skeletal letter forms and the digital
    Bauer Bodoni \"slab\" serifs, while removing the contrast of stroke weight, creating
    a monoline Egyptian. As far as I'm aware, the idea came into being for many reasons.
    Firstly, as a 1980s art director, I've spent some time comping Bodoni-style headlines,
    so I have a tactile feeling for the fine-point marker-rendered didone, and an
    awareness of filling in the stroke as a separate process. Secondly, the idea of
    an old style Egyptian, with two-bowl g, is something I realized hadn't been done
    and would be cool. (The Perversity Principle, or as J. Hoefler noted in his Emigre
    article, the type designer filling in the cracks, the ecological niches). Thirdly,
    I have some very large typositor print-outs of Bodoni Book that were useful to
    trace over. Fourthly, I've wondered what is definitive about certain archetypal
    forms that exist in the common awareness, and Bodoni E is an exploration of Bodoni-ness
    -- is it the letter shapes or the serif forms? At one point, this was Bodoni Sans,
    but I decided that was pushing it too far. Fifthly, how about a monoline typeface,
    where the caps have the same stroke weight as the lower case and the serifs? Sixth,
    considering the tension between ITC Bodoni and digital Bauer Bodoni. So I created
    the environment of a typeface vacuum in my head, shaped by all these factors,
    and then worked to fill it. I'm sorry, but I don't see the process as natural,
    it is cultural and personal, more like a mixture of cloning and genetic engineering
    than breeding.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/BodE2_3584.png]"
  created: '2006-10-28 05:03:50'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Nick, that's a nice description of your process.\r\n\r\nBut what you describe
    <em>does</em> involve a little cross-breeding (GB\u2019s skeletal letter forms
    and the digital Bauer Bodoni \u201Cslab\u201D serifs), but mostly descent with
    modifications, which might parent other things.\r\n\r\nYour cultured internal
    machinations are the mechanism of typographical diversification. They're 'natures
    way'. The structure of typographical evolution is the same in principle as the
    structure of biological evelotion.\r\n\r\n(But this is a sideroad in this thread)"
  created: '2006-10-28 13:48:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Your cultured internal machinations are the mechanism of typographical
    diversification. They\u2019re \u2018natures way\u2019. The structure of typographical
    evolution is the same in principle as the structure of biological evelotion.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm
    trying to make the distinction between structure and mechanism. Two structures
    may look the same, but this is likely merely the similarity that a particular
    system of feature-cataloguing imparts to diverse complex systems. \r\n\r\nMy cultured
    internal machinations are \"culture's way\", ennit. Culture and nature are quite
    different. Your equivalence-making could be applied to any cultural process that
    takes place over time. \"Descent\" as you use it means that A preceded B and there
    is some relationship, but that is not a description of a natural mechanism with
    physical or chemical agents with measurable qualities, such as DNA and genes.
    Besides, the Bringhurst metaphor breaks down when one considers historicist revivals,
    most notably William Morris' types -- which was like Jurrasic Park. And that is
    the difference between all cultural evolutionary trees and biological evolution
    -- the cultural history is based first on a subjective categorization of what
    happened and what was important (the \"master narrative\"), and also fertilization
    can flashback/forward in time. \r\n\r\nIt's certainly useful to derive intellectual
    metaphors from cultural \"cross-pollination\", but that is all they are. There
    is, for instance, no science of memes (although corporate viral marketers would
    no doubt like one). During the craze for natural philosophy (as science was then
    known) in the early 19th century, Samuel Coleridge would attend Humphrey Davey's
    lectures \"to replenish my stock of metaphors\". \r\n\r\nFor a theory to explain
    cultural evolution, rather than borrowing from natural history it would be better
    to look at the evidence and try to figure out what's happening, with a new and
    original paradigm. That's what the McLuhans did: http://www.horton.ednet.ns.ca/staff/scottbennett/media/
    \r\n"
  created: '2006-10-28 17:50:52'
- author:
    name: cbohne
    picture: 111978
  body: "I read most of the posts on this... sorry for not being entirely thorough.\r\n\r\n-Screen
    reading / paper\r\n\r\nBig issues there with more people using the internet and
    RSS for their daily news and life. E-mail being relied on as a means by which
    to do business. \r\n\r\nWith the fairly new e-ink products on the market that
    use reflective light instead of back lighting for electronic books I would assume
    that the issues involved would mirror those of paper. I myself read at least a
    novel a week as well as other types of reading, most of it done in mass-transit;
    I can see a huge market for e-ink products, with every other person on the El-Train
    (Chicago) stuffing their noses in books.\r\n\r\nAnyway... just another variable
    sorry if I missed a previous mention of it.\r\n\r\nWikipedia: \r\n<ul>\r\n<li>E-ink:
    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E_Ink</li>\r\n<li>E-paper: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electronic_paper</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/epaper_0_5111.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/200px-E-Ink_Flex_Tablet_Display_3962.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n______________________\r\n\r\nCLB\r\n\r\nDesign
    should never say, \"Look at me.\" It should always say, \"Look at this.\"\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-28 23:18:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The great thing about e-ink is its ability to combine the ergonomic benefits
    of paper with the dynamism of the screen. Imagine for example embedding a motion
    sensor in an e-ink document, giving it the ability to increase the layout margins
    when on the metro (to reduce nausea).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-28 23:28:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It will be very cool to work directly on an e-ink screen with a stylus.\r\nWhat
    do you think, another ten years?"
  created: '2006-10-28 23:52:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It would be cool, if they implemented a really good eraser.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-29 00:00:07'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Nick, I'll not belabour it, but there are analogues of biological evolution
    in every social and cultural sphere, just like there are analogues to geological
    processes in every social and cultural sphere. See <em>A Thousand Years of Nonlinear
    History</em> by Manuel De Landa (Zone Books; 1997). (And conversely, there are
    analogues of McLuhan's Tetrad in the biological sphere, or so it seems from a
    quick familiarization with them.) Metaphors may depend on these analogues but
    the analogues are there, they're real. It does no harm to the singularity of action
    in the typographical sphere to point to or highlight the biological analogue in
    the cultural sphere, and it is relevant and interesting to use it as a basis of
    charting kinships in the kingdom (= kinship-domain) of letterforms.\r\n\r\nNeither
    I nor Robert would want to claim the mechanisms are biochemical.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-10-29 00:34:14'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>Imagine for example embedding a motion sensor in an e-ink document, giving
    it the ability to increase the layout margins when on the metro (to reduce nausea).</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    would be an amazing application of UI technology as well as type technology. More
    typesetting than type design, but still, sounds good to me! And probably even
    better to Biddy.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The
    Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-10-29 00:59:58'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Hi everyone,\r\n\r\nI am trying to locate Larson's latest article fron TYPO.22\r\n\r\n\"Measuring
    the reading experience\"\r\n\r\nI live in little Halifax, Nova Scotia, and no
    magazine stores carry this, nor can they locate it.\r\n\r\nProvided I respect
    copyright law, does anyone know how I might be able to get my hands on this article?
    Time is a factor.\r\n\r\nI tried to contact Larson directly at Microsoft, but
    have been unsuccessful.\r\n\r\nI appreciate any help you can offer."
  created: '2006-10-29 16:36:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Try this link M\xFCller:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.magtypo.cz\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Chris Dean
      picture: 111971
    body: "That only lets me order an entire subscriotion. I just need the 1 article.\r\n\r\n\"Measuring
      the reading experience\"\r\n\r\nIve found PDF's here of other articles from
      TYPO, but I can't find this one.\r\n\r\nDoes anyone know\r\n\r\na) How to contact
      Larson personally, or\r\nb) Where I can get a pdf of this article"
    created: '2006-10-29 19:24:56'
  created: '2006-10-29 18:46:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just wait a day or so.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-29 19:44:39'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Dear Muller,\r\nPlease contact me at kevlar at microsoft com, and I can help
    you.\r\nCheers, Kevin"
  created: '2006-10-29 23:31:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Hrant wrote:\r\n> There will always be ways to make fonts/shoes more comfortable
    for a longer \r\n> duration.\r\nThis analogy makes my feet hurt. Shoes, you see,
    wear out as a result of variables I don't have time to list. Some of it is good
    analogy , because, e.g. our eyes have unequal lengths in both seeing and being
    seen as our legs have unequal lengths in walking and being walked.\r\n\r\n> And
    you don\u2019t do it to please the masses (consciously). You do it because you
    \r\n> respect the craft, and care about the user.\r\nI do do typeface design to
    please masses, consciously and with care about the user. I do font design with
    respect for the craft and care about the user as well. Whatdidyoureallymean?\r\n\r\nCarl
    Wrote:\r\n> As Bill points out, the many variables interact, so it\u2019s a very
    big project to \r\n> try to separate them.\r\nYet for some purposes, like text
    on screens, if you do separate out the variables that you can, and the user does
    have control over these variables, then you no longer have to try and separate
    them out. :)\r\n\r\nEben wrote, I said:\r\n> whatever theory is used to describe
    what happens in reading latin characters \r\n> had better have some way of dealing
    with arabic & chinese too or it was going \r\n> to be sub-standard\r\nI think,
    clearly, there is an evolutionary trend in evidence (script-wise), that supports
    understanding the whole thing, as an important goal. It's clear that (normally)
    we are heavily wired for human face recognition. No matter what script we read,
    we all do faces, from whence, logo recognition's not a stretch, and scripts closer
    to logos are common enough that we have a evolutionary stop for a lot of readers.
    Then there are scripts set in clusters along lines, and then striated scripts
    (Latin vs. Hebrew, e.g.), and now, immersive Latin reading means to parse a striated
    script, set in clusters in lines with logos mixed in, and with variation of style
    and composition, perhaps updating dynamically as we read.\r\n\r\n>Erik Van Blokland
    made a typeface that varied randomly called Kosmik.\r\nBeowolf varied randomly.
    Kosmik, I think, varies thoughtfully. \r\n\r\nMuzzerote:\r\n> If all you blokes
    put your heads together I reckon you'd make a font that\u2019s \r\n> heaps better
    than all these cruddy ones these days. Are you up for it???\r\nHeaps better, for
    sure. The issue is always \u2014 what kind of heap?\r\n\r\nPaul Wrote:\r\n> Perhaps
    one text that only incorporates the commonest of words and \r\n> information,
    and then sets of texts that progress in complexity of \r\n> vocabularity and concept?
    This may be the hardest variable to isolate?\r\nIn typographic experimentation,
    it is not the point to test user intelligence. But it brings up an interesting
    point; \"The work\" of determining the variables that foster immersive reading
    is done by who? In print, it is done upfront;  work from the conception of the
    material to the specification of the paper speed in the printer, all done in the
    critical interest of readability, (the type spec. someplace in the midst), for
    some particular audience. This is not some great mystery. What has happened in
    the last 20 years or so, is that the population who used to do \"the work\" between
    the type designer and the user have all but disappeared. And unfortunately, parts
    of the technology required to replace them (or us), have not been fostered, even
    for print. At the same, time, with technology appearing that puts global publishing
    in the hands of the user, not surprisingly, the same parts of the technology required
    to replace \"the work\" have lagged behind even further. The resultant widespread
    publication of unreadable materials is hardly a surprise, neither is the replacement
    of longer texts with shorter ones as the species reacts.\r\n\r\nBram.. Wrote:\r\n>
    teacher in her school felt that way, and that they will benefit by having a \r\n>
    \u201Cfont advisor\u201D come in\r\nThis sounds like a pretty simple web site.
    I also wish Century Schoolbook meant something to these people, (as a first step),
    and it's another example of \"the work\" that's missing between font design, and
    user. \r\n\r\nBiddy wrote:\r\n>Why would I be able to read the Washington Post
    Express, without feeling sick, but not a paperback?\r\nJust another barf-proof
    product from The Font Bureau? We have a wider, slightly heavier version of the
    same face for readers on tilt-a-whirls."
  created: '2006-10-30 21:25:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> This analogy makes my feet hurt.\r\n\r\nWell, no anology is perfect. Any
    perfect analogy is in fact simply the thing you're talking about, hence not an
    analogy, but merely a description, hence no fun.  :-)\r\n\r\nI find that footwear
    design/use is the best (non-esoteric) analogy to type design/use. Most people
    use architecture - which is completely off.\r\n\r\n> I do do typeface design to
    please masses,\r\n> consciously and with care about the user.\r\n\r\nYou (and
    I hope every other designer, except maybe Baudelaire :-) does type design consciously
    yourself, but part of what you address affects something beyond the consciousness
    of the user (even if one doesn't realize that). And my point was that this part
    is the non-mainstream, non-(obviously-)commercial part, the thing that drives
    progress.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 21:55:04'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<em>Yet for some purposes, like text on screens, if you do separate out the
    variables that you can, and the user does have control over these variables, then
    you no longer have to try and separate them out. :)</em>\r\n\r\nUsers can already
    control some typographic variables on web sites and such: they can change typeface,
    point size and even leading, sometimes simply by clicking a little button that
    activates a script that changes CSS settings. I wonder if devices such as e-ink
    will one day become as common as, or even more common than, paper and give users
    so much control that everyone will be able to find the combination of settings
    that makes the text at hand more legible to them.\r\n\r\nIf so, legibility/readability
    research would be crucially important to determine what settings users should
    be able to control. Flick a little switch here and you get ligatures; turn a little
    knob and increase leading; turn another knob and decrease ascenders and descenders
    or increase x-height; and so on.\r\n\r\nSome book designers may lose their jobs
    when publishers decide to cut costs because supposedly users can do most of the
    fine-tuning by themselves. On the other hand, type designers will be busier than
    ever designing complex families that can be manipulated by users in a number of
    ways <em>\xE0 la</em> Multiple Master."
  created: '2006-10-31 22:45:08'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> You do[] type design consciously yourself, but part of what you address
    affects something beyond the consciousness of the user (even if one doesn\u2019t
    realize that). \r\n\r\nHrant, all of what we do in text font design is beyond
    the consciousness of the text font reader, isn't it? My subconscious relationship
    ends with the recognition of the letter I'm drawing, at which point consciousness
    takes over and I make the decisions required to render the letters beyond the
    consciousness of the user, where, unless there is to be a relationship between
    the form of the letters and the meaning of the word they form, it's supposed to
    remain beyond the consciousness of the user.\r\n\r\n>Users can already control
    some typographic variables on web sites and such:\r\n\r\nYes, that's true Erik,
    but imagine the effect on readability, and eventually reader-ability, if print
    type, from type design to final composition, only had, at the \"pinnacle of control\",
    control over only some variables, by some users?\r\n\r\nBy pinnacle of control,
    I mean that if one needs to, one can do anything possible on the printed page
    to tune the composition for readability for a particular level of reader-ability.
    Fonts for screens, on the other hand are plagued by constraints: CSS  is 70's
    typesetting technology, Browsers grant users poor size choices, OS vendors hide
    filtering properties, no-one addresses page color effectively\u2014 and these
    are not the only problems afflicting immersive anti-aliased Latin font reading.
    Even when the resolution tragedy is not present, the rest of these constraints
    make certain that type designs cannot function properly in their quest to deliver
    dynamic capabilities in areas like spacing, weighting, styling and sizing.\r\n
    \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-01 16:22:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>at which point consciousness takes over</em>\r\n\r\nBut how do you account
    for style? Not all designers have it to a pronounced degree, but Fred Goudy, Luc
    de Groot and Jon Barnbrook, to name a few off the top of my head, have a way of
    putting curves and straight lines together that is quite personal, a developed
    sense of proportion and form which they exercise intuitively. In the case of Fred
    and Luc, its origins in chirography -- in the hand -- seems pretty clear. Or would
    you say that the decision to incorporate chirographic elements into a design is
    a \"micro-managed\", conscious decision to let the hand (and its subconscious,
    trained programming) have its way?"
  created: '2006-11-01 17:24:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I agree with Nick - although I'm pretty sure he does\r\nnot agree with the
    first segment of my elaboration:\r\n\r\nThe relevance of style is qualitatively
    different on either side of the display-text divide, and it's quantitatively different
    on the text side in proportion to size (mainly, although things like paper/lighting
    quality can also play a notable role), but style is never absent. Nothing a human
    makes can be devoid of style, and nothing made for a human should be.\r\n\r\nOne
    thing Nick:\r\nTo me de Groot is far less chiro than Smeijers. This might be hard
    to see through their results, but there is a fundamental difference in means versus
    goal.\r\n\r\nUser control over type: highly over-rated - quite a lot like democracy.
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-01 17:38:19'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<em>Yes, that\u2019s true Erik, but imagine the effect on readability, and
    eventually reader-ability, if print type, from type design to final composition,
    only had, at the \u201Cpinnacle of control\u201D, control over only some variables,
    by some users?</em>\r\n\r\n<em>User control over type: highly over-rated - quite
    a lot like democracy.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not sure how my comments were interpreted,
    but I wasn't making a case for greater typographic (or pseudo-typographic) control
    on the part of the user; I was just musing about the future."
  created: '2006-11-02 19:38:37'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Does much of the source of debate come from psychological journals?\r\n\r\nI'm
    interested in locating the sources."
  created: '2006-11-16 07:17:56'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Peter Enneson may be able to point you in the right direction.
  created: '2006-11-16 08:02:20'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'so, can i just ask for a re-cap on one portion of my original question: what
    should reading research be trying to assess in terms of typography?'
  created: '2006-11-16 13:18:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "To me, it would have to be aimed at problems and give hints to their solutions.
    One set of problems revolves around limitations due to either reader disabilities
    or another might be learning how to read (developmental problems affecting grasp
    of reading). We have some attempts at solutions with large print but the data
    is not clear enough on all the other factors like serifs, line-length margins,
    number of columns for limited vision readers. Dyslexia is another issue in the
    same vein. Is there anything that helps dyslexics that can be done with typography?
    Does size matter for them? Serifs? letterspacing?\r\nAll of this looks at the
    difference between the typical (normal?) reader and the problem reader. While
    we may be able to increase reading speed to some degree for the normal reader,
    I feel we should spend our resources on the problem reader where there is huge
    ground to be made up and people who really need help. I have no idea if this is
    a typeface design issue or a page layout issue, or both.  I would hope solid research
    on reading disabilities would be the number one goal. The rest of us can wait.
    Being an old fart with trifocal glasses, I can still read under most conditions
    so I am certainly willing to focus on the reading disabled first. We might also
    learn something generalizable to the whole population from research on disability.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-16 13:53:14'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"...what should reading research be trying to assess in terms of typography?\"\r\n\r\nIn
    a phrase: the perceptual processing impacts of manipulating typeform microvariables
    in skilled readers, begining readers, and readers suffering from dyslexias."
  created: '2006-11-16 14:55:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it would have to be aimed at problems and give hints to their solutions.\r\n\r\nToo
    early.\r\nFirst we need to have a general, robust -if not, and probably never,
    complete- understanding of reading in place. For one thing, without that, you
    can't even start to contrast normal with aberrant.\r\n\r\n> I feel we should spend
    our resources on the problem reader where\r\n> there is huge ground to be made
    up and people who really need help.\r\n\r\nIdeally people work on stuff that turns
    them on.\r\nSome of us are turned on by helping billions, instead of just millions.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-16 16:06:26'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"First we need to have a general, robust--if not, and probably never, complete--understanding
    of reading in place\" [Hrant]\r\n\r\nI agree completely: to understand the perceptual
    processing impacts, we need an accross scripts understanding of perceptual processing
    mechanics, both at the behavioural (eye movements, reading speed) and functional-anatomical
    neuro-physical level. "
  created: '2006-11-16 16:23:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">we need to have a general, robust\u2014if not, and probably never, complete\u2014understanding
    of reading in place\r\n\r\nWe do not need a complete understanding. If we have
    overarching *theories* of reading they will help guide us to new experiments that
    deepen our understanding. History of science tells us that even quite false theories
    can be of help heuristically. And also theories with even small, partial understanding
    can help. What are needed to make progress in science are new ideas, small or
    big, but just new ideas. That's what it's all about--plus the considerable discipline
    and investment of time effort and money to develop and test the new ideas.  \r\n\r\nTo
    insist on working out a 'general and robust' theory first is to pretty much block
    progress, and instead get wrapped up in discussions of metaphysics or even purely
    verbal discussions and never get to science. "
  created: '2006-11-16 16:35:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> theories with even small, partial understanding can help.\r\n\r\nIndeed
    - and these often arise from nothing much more than instinct.\r\nAnd what I've
    been hoping for is that Kevin gives my theory a fighting chance.\r\n\r\n> To insist
    on working out a \u2018general and robust\u2019\r\n> theory first is to pretty
    much block progress\r\n\r\nI think you're misinterpreting my \"general and robust\"*,
    which really just means something that: is good enough to foster actual improvement
    on the ground, even if it's something as simple as reassuring practitioners that
    serifs help readability; makes sense, heuristically; and accounts for all (or
    99%) of the empirical evidence.\r\n\r\n* For one thing you clearly missed my \"not
    complete\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-16 16:52:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">good enough to foster actual improvement on the ground\r\n\r\nThe 'robust'
    sounded much stronger to me, but it looks like I misunderstood and we're in agreement.
    \r\n\r\nedit. \"Agrees with 99% of the evidence\"--even that is not necessary. "
  created: '2006-11-16 17:00:56'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Hrant, could you explain what you mean by 'makes sense, heuristically'?
  created: '2006-11-16 17:57:30'
date: '2006-10-25 14:13:16'
node_type: forum
title: 'Reading Research: What is Needed?'

---
