---
author:
  name: thedark_master
body: "hi i am a freshman i college and i got an expressive word project.  I need
  to select 4 of these words and use type in an expressive way to emphasize them.
  \ I just have no ideas at all. anyhing will help.  here are the words:\r\n\r\n\u2022\tmoving\t\u2022\tnoise\t\u2022\tdark\t\u2022\tstolen\r\n\u2022\tstumble\t\u2022\twhisper\t\u2022\tbend\t\u2022\tlight\t
  \       \u2022\tdrop\r\n\u2022\tgrow\t\u2022\tlost\t\u2022\tempty\t\u2022\tscramble\t\u2022\treach
  \r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "Do your own homework. \r\n\r\nIf you need help, you should have asked or
    met with the professor. How much are you paying for college? The audacity of recently
    graduated high school children.\r\n\r\nG-d I'd immediately fail or drop a letter
    grade if one of my student were to come here and ask for solutions."
  created: '2006-10-25 04:48:09'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "So which set excites you?  Makes you think? Claws at your soul?  \r\n\r\nI
    can think of many permutations and combinations with all of these, but you need
    to choose which set of words gets your heart beating.\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-10-25 04:49:03'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "no ideas. hahaha! awesome. see you in the industry ... probably as a CEO.\r\n\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com/print.htm\">Graphic Design, Melbourne</a>\r\n----------\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.littlemischief.com\">Little Mischief</a>"
  created: '2006-10-25 04:55:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Set them all in Helvetica, 156.5pt at 75% gray at 4.75 degree clockwise rotation
    - then come up with an outlandish explanation as to why Helv is appropriate for
    each word - you could use your fave search engine to look for reasons why Helv
    is appropriate. You'll get an 'A' for sure!
  created: '2006-10-25 05:45:17'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "<cite>hi i am a freshman i college and i got an expressive word project.
    I need to select 4 of these words and use type in an expressive way to emphasize
    them. I just have no ideas at all. anyhing will help. here are the words:\r\n\u2022
    moving \u2022 noise \u2022 dark \u2022 stolen\r\n\u2022 stumble \u2022 whisper
    \u2022 bend \u2022 light \u2022 drop\r\n\u2022 grow \u2022 lost \u2022 empty \u2022
    scramble \u2022 reach\r\n\r\nFirst at least try do something yourself. On the
    basic of that people here can give you the feedback..wheather they are working
    or not. \r\nI think you can easiely solve these words...they are very simple words.
    \r\n\r\nAm a student too and we had a same kind of exercise last year. I'll show
    you my solutions..but first solve it yourself;)\r\n\r\nall the best.\r\nsatya\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-25 07:28:48'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "sii: Oh, come on. It should at least be in Arial, not Helvetica.\r\n\r\nSheesh,
    my six year old kid puts more serious thought into the fonts to use for the little
    sign we're making reminding him of the reward he'll get for brushing his teeth.
    Of course, his main criterion right now is to use fonts that I've designed. The
    kids really love the idea that they have a proprietary font for just their use,
    until I get around to finishing it, which at the rate I'm going will be a while.
    (It's the <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/9245\">Christian Gothic</a>
    I posted a  year and a half ago)."
  created: '2006-10-25 07:32:25'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "group ROFL anyone?\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com/print.htm\">Graphic
    Design, Melbourne</a>\r\n----------\r\n<a href=\"http://www.littlemischief.com\">Little
    Mischief</a>"
  created: '2006-10-25 10:24:48'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "> moving \u2022 noise \u2022 dark \u2022 stolen\r\n\u2022 stumble \u2022
    whisper \u2022 bend \u2022 light \u2022 drop\r\n\u2022 grow \u2022 lost \u2022
    empty \u2022 scramble \u2022 reach\r\n\r\nYou have a whole erotic novel there.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-25 10:31:41'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Ivan, maybe we should restart this thread. What were the instructions given
    to you by your teacher? Did you ask for more instruction after the teacher gave
    you the assignment? \r\n\r\nMaybe I'm giving too much credit to the student and
    too little to the teacher, but it seems to me if a student feels a need to come
    to Typophile to ask a question like this there isn't enough communication (and
    instruction) from the teacher.\r\n\r\nThis is a classic typography 101 assignment.
    I had it when I was a student. I did the word ECLIPSE and the typeface Trajan
    (gasp!). I took the C and reshaped it into a sliver of a moon. I still look at
    it as a breakthrough in my education as before that the teacher had made me cry
    and embarassed me in front of the entire class with my previous attempts. Instead
    of quitting something inside of me accepted the challenge and I went back to my
    sketchbook (ok I probably used the computer) and started playing with words, typefaces
    and shapes.\r\n\r\nThe assignment is to visually interpret a word. A typeface
    can help with the interpretation, but the letters also have to do some of the
    work. So, you should define each word as you know it and then turn that into something
    visual. Start sketching and see what happens. I'll bet you'd be surprised."
  created: '2006-10-25 17:03:46'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'This gets me about so many of the requests in the Design forum: here''s my
    project, what font should I use? And I wonder (not in this case of course) how
    much the designer is being paid... that they can''t at least start to come up
    with something on their own and then perhaps bring it here for feedback. I''ve
    been ignoring these requests unless they pay US for our time.'
  created: '2006-10-25 17:08:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">The kids really love the idea that they have a proprietary font for just
    their use\r\n\r\nThis is true, my five year-old loves to type on my laptop using
    the Zune UI font."
  created: '2006-10-25 17:09:31'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>here\u2019s my project, what font should I use?</em>\r\n\r\nI too love
    those threads, particularly since I get paid to do that for a living. If I had
    known I could get people to do my work for me I would've gotten an MBA. :)"
  created: '2006-10-25 18:54:05'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I love those threads as much as you guys. But I think, in this instance, in
    many maybe, instead of shutting it down, why can't we turn into something educational?
  created: '2006-10-25 18:58:34'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Agreed, Tiff, but it would be more productive for all concerned if we had
    a scamp, no matter how rough, to feedback on rather than a shortened version of
    a brief. That said I think your advice about sketching out ideas is probably the
    best that can be given at this stage (closely followed by an erotic novel:), oh
    and don't do whisper as a 5% tint or a gradation, people will point and snigger.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-25 19:06:51'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: I too agree, Tiff. I just think with all things, you have to give a little
    to get something back. An attempt first, critique later.
  created: '2006-10-25 19:11:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Agreed, Tiff, but it would be more productive for all concerned if we had
    a scamp, no matter how rough, to feedback on rather than a shortened version of
    a brief. \r\n\r\nBut could think of this as being sub-contracted to work on a
    project and only getting part of the brief - that happens in the real world, no?"
  created: '2006-10-25 19:18:53'
- author:
    name: thedark_master
  body: "thank you for your help for those who actually decided to help out. \r\nIsn't
    it funny that my thread became a discussion about something else?"
  created: '2006-10-25 20:00:17'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"gimme answers i need it right away thanks\" \r\n\r\nThere's a whole set
    of \"challenges\" here and they have nothing to do with type or expression. "
  created: '2006-10-25 20:13:39'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "<cite>Isn\u2019t it funny that my thread became a discussion about something
    else?\r\n\r\ndear ivan, you have to wait for the proper replies/answers, U're
    a member of typophile for hardly 16 hrs..and u dont know much abt the members,
    they all are very busy people, and have lots of work. u're lucky that you got
    these much answers, and its totally depends on what you're asking...and second
    thing you didnt showed anything yet..,Im still waiting:)\r\n\r\nplz dont mind.\r\nsatya\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-25 20:20:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Isn\u2019t it funny that my thread became a discussion about something else?\r\n\r\nNo,
    not funny at all. That's typophile - someone asks a rather dull, uninteresting
    or silly question and the community either ignores it or goes off on an interesting
    tangent. I assume most forums (not just on-line) are like that if there's not
    a written agenda or moderator to keep people on-topic.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-25 20:30:16'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I tried to take his original request and answer it with more questions instead
    of answers. Education is a two-way street. The teachers need to be as willing
    to communicate as the student. \r\n\r\nI'm glad you guys don't think I'm being
    impossible. I was worried about that.\r\n\r\nTerry, I agree. You can't get something
    for nothing. That is why I turned it around and asked for more.\r\n\r\nThe reason
    we are a community is because we do talk. Talking has tangents. You can't help
    that. But I do hope that you, Ivan, will take the initiative so we can help you."
  created: '2006-10-25 20:35:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Go to myfonts.com and look at type, use keyword searches.  See what YOU think
    starts to \"say\" the words. There is no learning without struggle.   Instead
    of begging for one fish, learn to fish.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-25 20:44:48'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: 'Tiff: you are very kind, just this side shy of too kind. Typophile would
    be a much less friendly place if it weren''t for the work you and the other moderators
    do holding it together.'
  created: '2006-10-25 20:56:52'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Thanks, Raph. \r\n\r\nA really fun little book which exemplifies this assignment,
    for me anyway, is <a href=\"http://www.youworkforthem.com/product.php?sku=P0744\">Watching
    Words Move</a> -- <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/reader/0811852148/ref=sib_dp_pt/002-1712409-4536830#reader-link\">shown
    here too</a>."
  created: '2006-10-25 21:30:30'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "hi,\r\n\r\nthe first thing you should do is pick four of the words. if you
    can't decide, pick four out of a hat. however, be aware that should you decide
    to continue in design, your academic and professional life will contain millions
    of artistic, aesthetic, programmatic, and strategic decisions.\r\n\r\nsecond,
    write the four words out. then define them so that you have a clear idea of the
    concept each word represents.\r\n\r\nthird, define \"expressive.\" either from
    the dictionary, or for yourself, or better yet, in both ways.\r\n\r\nfourth, and
    this is the kicker, you absolutely must generate your own creative ideas. draw
    the words. draw them with different pens and pencils. paint them. type them on
    a computer. print them out small, print them out so each letter fits on an 11x17
    (or A3) page. buy some blocks with letter on them and rearrange them. take pictures
    of type all around you for a whole day, print them, cut out the letters and make
    collages. these are just a few suggestions - the point is that you should open
    yourself up creatively. don't be afraid. \r\n\r\nfifth, draw pictures of the words.
    by that i mean, images that express the ideas. find stock photography (gettyimages.com
    or istockphoto.com) that express the ideas. take your own pictures.\r\n\r\nsteps
    4 and 5 will have to come together. \r\n\r\nDO, then think. then DO again. repeat
    as often as you can stand it, because it will probably help you improve.\r\n\r\nwhile
    you are THINKING, always keep in mind the concept of the word. look at the creative
    things you have done. try to imagine how steps 4 and 5 come together. \r\n\r\nfinally,
    i've suggested some steps. this is only to get your started - you can find your
    own process as well.\r\n\r\noh, and post some of the stuff here that you've done
    and you will get at least some constructive feedback.\r\n\r\ngood luck. have fun.\r\n\r\njarrod\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-25 22:07:42'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "here are the few solutions from a similar kind of assignment i was given
    during my first typography course last year. Everything was hand done(cutting/pasting/xeroxing)...I
    know lots of them aren't working at all..but thats was a part of learning:)\r\n\r\nIvan,
    these are not very great solutions but yeah you can get an idea. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FOR
    TYPOPHILE_4038.jpg]\r\n\r\ncutting/pasting was really a fun.....\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cut
    paste_5847.jpg]"
  created: '2006-10-25 22:34:05'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "at least he didn't set the title in all caps.... oh wait.\r\n\r\nso how is
    the project going anyway?"
  created: '2006-10-26 07:03:18'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I just have no ideas at all.\"\r\n\r\nAre you being lazy, or seriously
    have no ideas at all? If just being lazy, fine. But if you seroiusly have no ideas
    at all, it might be time to rethink your major."
  created: '2006-10-26 15:10:07'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: OH come on! Cut him some slack! He knows how to key in a bullet!
  created: '2006-10-26 15:23:14'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: Hey go to Borders, look at Stop Steeling Sheep and find out how type works.
    It has a little shpeel on matching type to like sneekers and things.
  created: '2006-10-26 18:32:24'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "\"if a student feels a need to come to Typophile to ask a question like this
    there isn\u2019t enough communication (and instruction) from the teacher.\"\r\n\r\nWhy
    not? In the UK we were encouraged to make the most of all resources, so even if
    we were assigned a tutor for a specific project we were encouraged to go see other
    tutors, read, talk to the professionals, look for inspiration and advice everywhere
    so I don\u2019t see why not Typophile, after all he asked for ANY kind of help,
    not for solutions. Maybe he just wanted to see how YOU would approach this task
    (in general). \r\nI find it silly to insinuate that because he\u2019s paying for
    college, college should provide all the anwers. Is that the relationship we want
    students to have with their universities? One of a client that pays for a service?\r\n\r\n\"why
    can\u2019t we turn into something educational?\"\r\n\r\nAgain: I don\u2019t think
    he was asking for you guys to do the job on his behalf. Ivan is just interacting
    with professionals, trying to find out, outside the classroom, what are the different
    ways to approach this exercise. So if someone asks you for advice you want to
    be paid, but if it\u2019s \u201Ceducational support\u201D you are willing to do
    it free of charge? Typophile is an educational tool as well so why all this arrogance?
    Generosity is what makes Typophile such a great place. I asked for help many times,
    it was never intended as \u201Ccan you do it for me?\u201D. It was always more
    of an attempt to interact with people and see how their mind work. Plus Ivan's
    clearly a student, so what\u2019s the fuss about a student asking for help. What\u2019s
    so outrageous about it? Begging for a fish? Learn how to fish? Stop being lazy?
    Sorry but THAT was patronizing. Listen to yourselves... People seem to be too
    busy to give you a hand but are never too busy to give a little moral lesson,
    free of charge.....so what he has no ideas, it doesn't mean he's stupid. It happens
    to all students to panic a bit in front of a new task, big deal! Do your homework!
    What do you think he's doing?? This is actually part of his homework!\r\nIvan's
    not being lazy, he\u2019s doing what he\u2019s supposed to do: he\u2019s looking
    for advice outside college. Good for you, mate. Ivan, you have all my support.
    In fact, I\u2019ll have a look into it and let you know as soon as I can if I
    come up with something original, free of charge of course. \r\n\r\nWelcome to
    Typophile, who recommended you to come here, by the way? Your tutor? Good for
    him.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-27 19:19:09'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "I tell you how I would start...(it\u2019s just my personal way of dealing
    with this sort of thing): look up in a dictionary and try to find out all possible
    meanings of the same word. Moving for example could relate to motion but it could
    also refer to the act of producing emotions so you have more than one option and
    you can pick the one that inspires you most or the one that you think may surprise
    your tutor (maybe your fellow students will all use the word in relation to motion,
    so if you use the word as in \u201Cproducing emotion\u201D it\u2019ll be less
    obvious and slightly more original). I know it\u2019s just an  idea but I hope
    it\u2019ll give you something to think about before you proceed with the actual
    graphic representation. \r\n\r\nAs Tim said in realtion to the word whisper: stay
    away from the obvious, try to evoke an atmosphere rather than seek for a literal
    representation ( I think that was what Tim meant). \r\nI had a quick look in my
    dictionary but I\u2019m sure you can do a better job. Good luck. Oh and please
    make your cheque payable to...: )\r\n\r\nMoving: \r\n1) in motion \r\n2) producing
    strong emotion as in \u201Ca moving book\u201D\r\n3) relating to the process of
    changing one\u2019s residence\r\n\r\nStumble: \r\n1) trip por momentarily lose
    one\u2019s balance; almost fall\r\n2) trip repeatedly as one walks\r\n3) make
    mistake or repated mistakes in speaking as in \u201Che stumbled over the words\u201D\r\n4)
    find or encounter by chance\r\n \r\nWhisper:\r\n1) speak very softly using one\u2019s
    breath without one\u2019s vocal cords, especially for the sake of privacy\r\n2)
    poetic or literary: of leaves, wind or water , rustle or murmur softly\r\n3) be
    whispered: be rumoured as in \u201C it was whispered that he would soon die\u201D\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-27 20:24:27'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Lorenza,\r\n\r\nI think you completely mis-read what I wrote. Or at least
    partially. I never (meant to have) said that students shouldn't be encouraged
    to use as many resources as possible. I agree with you and what you have said
    about \"making the most of all resources.\" He said he had no ideas and so I tried
    to respond in a way which would help, but without taking away from what he might
    learn should he explore \r\n\r\nI think I did give him suggestion as to how I
    would approach the project. \r\n\r\nThe reason I posted was to try to turn the
    conversation toward the right direction and help instead of insult. \r\n\r\nPlease
    re-read what I wrote. I only wished to help him and get the others to try to help
    as well."
  created: '2006-10-27 21:04:49'
- author:
    name: offonoff
  body: First of all, kudos to the kid for looking for professional resources. But,
    in the same breath, I do believe he can give it a whirl on his own first. I think
    it's imperative for design students to explore their own thoughts and ideas -
    that is the point of a college education. Ideation  developement is essential
    in the creative process. My advice as a design professional and educator is to
    research and seek ideas, yes, but think independently as well. If you learn that
    now, you'll be more successful in your senior-level classes and beyond.
  created: '2006-10-27 22:25:38'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: I disagree lore. I HAVE NO IDEAS.  Who considers themselves creative ( with
    an actual interest in their major) and couldn't have ANY ideas while looking at
    those words? True, sometimes people get jumped on tp for nothing. This isn't one
    of those times.
  created: '2006-10-27 22:43:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Lorenza,\r\nEither you missunderstood my post or we have completely different
    concepts of what \"help\" is. In my years of teaching and parenting, I have always
    struggled to find the best way to \"teach\" that individual at that moment in
    a way that befits that instance. I believe that what Ivan needed just then was
    a bit of a wake-up call that he must do \"something\" first even if it is wrong
    before he gives up saying he has no idea. I also gave him a way to get started.
    \ I firmly believe that the struggle in learning is imperitive and the best teacher
    of selfreliance.  The young man is a college student now, not a child. He needs
    to push himself to action. He could then bring the results of his actions here
    for help.  You learn far more from trying and being wrong than you do by doing
    nothing and hoping for divine intervention.\r\nAs far as I am concerned, the most
    helpful post on this thread was by Satya, a young student himself. Satya said,
    \"First at least try do something yourself. On the basic of that people here can
    give you the feedback..wheather they are working or not.\"\r\nHe later said, \"I
    am still waiting\" after getting no reply and offered to show his own work--still
    no reply. Satya may be young and inexperienced but was exactly right in his assesment.\r\n\r\nI
    stand by every word I said above without apology. I truly want Ivan to learn to
    fish.  To do that, he must first go out and stick his line in the water.  That
    works far better than waiting for a cooked fish to jump into your plate at home.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-27 22:45:17'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Lorenza,\r\n\r\nI think you are projecting what Ivan thought and intended.
    His message isn't articulate enough for all of that. Ivan himself hasn't responded
    so defensively."
  created: '2006-10-27 23:32:17'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "I still think that, considering he's new on typophile, you guys could have
    been a little bit more supportive and less condescendent. And yes, I re read the
    thread and I feel exactly the same. We don't know if he's a \"young man\". I took
    a degree in graphic design when I was well over 30. I had another degree before
    that and I had travelled all over the world. Still, in front of my first brief
    I felt very insecure and I remember it was very important for me to look at other
    people's work.  Nothing wrong with that. I think it's clear that Ivan was having
    difficulties getting started, maybe he's a hell of a designer but it's still insecure
    about his ideas and concepts. Maybe he came across Typophile and thought that
    this is what was all about: exchange of ideas and who knows maybe he would have
    helped YOU next time but he'll probably think twice about coming back now. If
    that was the first reception, can you immagine how comfortable he feels about
    showing you guys his sketches? Can you blame him? And why all this sending him
    back to his tutor then? Why do you assume he doesn't communicate with his tutors?
    Maybe he feels he needs the input from outside, that his tutor is not God and
    may not always be right. Plus at Typophile you have people from different backgrounds
    and culture, what beats that?  Carl, I agree I don't have enough information to
    determine that he had nothing but good intentions but we don't have enough information
    to decide he's a slacker either.\r\n\r\nSerious guys: if you don't feel like giving
    a hand: fine. If you feel like you should be paid for that: fine, contact him
    by email or something and make an arrangement. It would not be the first time
    this happens at Typophile! \r\nBut please think about before you call him lazy
    or before you suggest he should consider studying something else instead. "
  created: '2006-10-28 01:06:58'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "Lorenza, \r\nsorry but am not at all agree with what you're saying. Dunno
    why, but you've just turned everything other way. Am a student too, and I never
    had any problem with any of the members here. I think everyone here is very very
    co-operative and helpful, specially for the students. And this is why its a great
    place.\r\n.\r\n.\r\n.\r\np\r\n.\r\ne\r\n.\r\na\r\n.\r\nc\r\n.\r\ne\r\n. \r\n.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-28 01:30:02'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: 'I, too, have just reread this thread, and I stand by my post despite the
    penetrating Freudian psychoanalysis of the student''s mind. You can detect an
    insincere undertone in his request for help: the help-me-do-the-problem-for-me
    kind of request. '
  created: '2006-10-28 02:16:29'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Satya: what I don't understand is this urge to be so judgemental and patronising.
    People do ask for help. If you think they don't deserve it, move on to the next
    thread. \r\nWhat you said about people being busy doesn't make much sense because
    it's their choice to read the thread and reply. Nobody's forcing anyone to be
    here! \r\nIf it's a question of payment, then let those who think they should
    be paid, work out a contract or a price table. \r\nI don't see the need to determine
    if the student is kosher or not, or if his/her request is legit or not. Simply,
    I didn't \"detect any undertone\" (not even using my penetrating Freudian psychological
    analysis skills) and I happened to have the time to give a little encouragement.
    I didn't see any diabolical-immoral-unethical-shameless-conspiracy-against-the-poor-typophile-member
    in Ivan's few lines. So maybe it's not me who's turning things the other way (whatever
    that means). \r\nIt doesn't make any difference to me if Ivan presents or not
    a sketch, to be honest, but that's me.  I don't feel the need to put rules in
    everything. I simply don't feel offended and don't feel the need to \"scold\"
    the \"vile slacker\". \r\nWhy put the guy on trial, you help if you feel like.
    If you don't, just ignore the message and let those who don't feel offended do
    what they think. He asked for ideas, which could also be suggesting a book (like
    someone did) or just share a similar experience. I don't think it should be a
    rule that the guy/girl should first show a sketch.  You may ask for it but you
    don't have the right to \"expect\" this and feel betrayed and cheated because
    the person doesn't comply with your request. He never promised anything.\r\nHe
    said in his 2nd post that he was grateful to those who had decided to help him,
    what else do you need: the naughty naughty boy on his knees? \r\n\r\nSatya, I
    think some typophile members are simply awesome, and I have a great experience
    of typophile myself, which is why I'm surprised to suddenly see all this resentment
    and all this detecting-insincere-undertones between the lines. Oh well...\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-28 03:38:04'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: I think I am going to put the word VERBOSE in the list of words I will be
    assigning to my students.
  created: '2006-10-28 03:47:57'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Hear hear, James!\r\n\r\nI also agree with whoever said that if somebody
    has no ideas they don't belong in graphic design. I mean even if your first stab
    is trite how can you not see anything at all for 'grow', 'dark', 'drop' or 'scramble'?
    Being a designer is about being to visualize and conceptualize and I think we
    would NOT be doing Ivan any favor by handing him easy answers."
  created: '2006-10-28 04:04:44'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "<cite>\"I think we would NOT be doing Ivan any favor by handing him easy
    answers.\"</cite>\r\nvery true, \r\nand sometime not helping is itself a big help:)"
  created: '2006-10-28 04:09:01'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Well, what can I say? Maybe not everyone is as perfect as you are, James.\r\n\r\nEducation
    (assuming Ivan was actually looking for education...) is something you offer,
    not something you impose.\r\nExactly: don't help, isn't it what I was saying all
    this time? If you don't want to help Satya, don't help!\r\nSo Ivan doesn't belong
    here or even in the industry. What are you going to do about that? Make a petition
    and send a letter to West Lafayette's college of graphic design and have him removed?
    I don't get it, Patricia, you are being incredibly harsh.  I thought your issue
    was money, now it's about education principles? Who talked about easy answers,
    did you read my post? I said it's possible he was only looking for general advice.\r\n\r\nMonths
    ago some guy from a typographic magazine asked us to help him find a name for
    his e-newsletter or something (Satya you were not around yet). Anyone here remembers?
    He promised a prize ( I can't remember what it was...). A huge amount of people
    contributed, some names were actually really good. What happened to the guy and
    the reward? Anyone knows? Anyone said anything?\r\nThat was actually something
    to make a fuss about because:\r\na) he was in the creative industry, why couldn't
    he find a name for his magazine ?\r\nb) he had the means to financially reward
    contributors\r\nc) he actually promised he was going to reward the winner\r\nd)
    he disappeared without saying a word. Nope, not even a thank you.\r\n\r\nHas anyone
    demonstrated outrage? I think not. That, in my opinion, was not a very honest
    attittute and it went completely unnoticed. \r\nNow all this fuss because a first
    year student is not creative enough and needs a push, like this is something new...
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-28 06:38:19'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/th_peacesymbol_6371.jpg]'
  created: '2006-10-28 06:59:20'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">As Tim said in realtion to the word whisper: stay away from the obvious,
    try to evoke an atmosphere rather than seek for a literal representation ( I think
    that was what Tim meant)\r\n\r\nYes (although at least one student will do that).\r\n\r\nMany
    people get into graphics to specialise in different disciplines other than type,
    students often don't appreciate the inter-connection of disciplines, but I don't
    want to defend Ivan, if he feels the need he can do that. I expect now most of
    us would love a project with a brief as free as this, but in the dim and distant
    (in my case) it was daunting and I was <em>aware</em> of type (or rather lettering),
    a situation that Tiffany acknowledged, although the purpose, I believe, of the
    exercise is multi-fold, one of which is the use of resources, the darkroom & studio,
    type department, library, print and model-making departments (the astute will
    guess it was before easy access to digital). For that reason I don't condemn Ivan,
    although I wish he had shown some inclinations, on the other hand many students
    have asked questions here and demanded to be treated as children and received
    some barbed advice, that will, hopefully, reveal to them the difference between
    school and college education.\r\n\r\nThat'll be ten quid, I'll send an invoice.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-28 10:38:40'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/scarecrow_oz_4222.gif]\r\n\r\nDid I say
    I was perfect?\r\n\r\nA straw man for a no brainer."
  created: '2006-10-28 12:48:06'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: '?'
  created: '2006-10-28 13:05:58'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: Not directed at you Tim.
  created: '2006-10-28 13:07:22'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Not a concern James, I just didn't/don't understand.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-28 13:37:09'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I didn't mean to sound harsh but I stand by what I said.\r\n\r\nI just think
    it's lazy to come here and expect us to do your work for you, whether you're a
    student or a paid professional (especially egregious). Having the ideas is the
    fun part, it's having the client reject them that sucks. Ivan has to learn this
    and if he can't or won't at least make an attempt on his own then he should consider
    whether this is the right field for him. I've had a lot of design students work
    for me and if any of them ever came to me without an idea in their head and asked
    \"what font should I use?\" I'd have fired them.\r\n\r\nIn any event, he's been
    awfully quiet of late, either he found help somewhere else or we scared him off,
    which would be a shame. I should add that I have learned a tremendous amount about
    type from frequenting this site and I already have almost 20 yrs experience."
  created: '2006-10-28 15:38:51'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "I know that Patricia. I saw your website ages ago and I realise you are an
    established designer with a solid career, no doubts about that. Again, I don't
    think he was expecting anything. He asked for help and said 'thank you' to those
    willing to do so. Again, he did not ask for free education or parenting (!) or
    baby-sitting. For what we know about him, maybe he was just looking for suggestions
    (I think I am repeating myself) and maybe he didn't expect expensive, experienced,
    established designers to do the job for him free of charge. There's no indication
    to that. Jesse recommended him a book. That was a cool thing to do and a humble
    one too. And it didn't cost him anything.\r\nYour first reply was about financial
    reward, then you added educational principles and now you seem to be sorry he
    has been scared off, when just few posts ago you seemed to be rather convinced
    he was knocking at the wrong door. You should be happy he's not around anymore.
    That would be consistent for someone who sacks inexperienced students with such
    aplomb.\r\nTo be honest, this is not about Ivan himself so it doesn't matter if
    he's around or not. I don't know him and I don't want to speak on his behalf but
    all these moral lessons and cliches about education methods are ridiculous.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-28 18:34:18'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "OUCH!!!\r\n\r\nMy very first boss, to whom I owe a lot, used to say \"don't
    come to me with questions, come to me with answers\" which maybe the best professional
    advice I ever got. As Chris said, teach them how to fish. I learned more more
    from professors and bosses who were tough on me than from those who held my hand.
    I guess I carried that over when I became the boss - I never had much patience
    with helpless interns or assistants.\r\n\r\nIf Ivan learned from this thread that
    he should take baby steps towards solving his own design problems rather than
    immediately turning to the 'experts' for advice then we did him a service. I hope
    he comes back with some samples for us to review.\r\n\r\nYou have to have a thick
    skin in this business, as in most.\r\n\r\nMy earlier comment about professionals
    asking us to pick fonts for them (which you keep bringing up) was obviously not
    directed at Ivan for gods sake."
  created: '2006-10-28 18:48:11'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"we don\u2019t have enough information to decide he\u2019s a slacker either.\"\r\n\r\nIvan's
    original message looks very hastily and sloppily composed. He's declared clearly
    he has no ideas at all. Ivan has done exactly nothing to kick off this assignment,
    be clear: absolutely nothing. He didn't even pick 4 words from the 14 evocative
    words provided. He didn't even try. Then there's a vaguely-communicated expectation
    that we will offer help. Others have pointed out how simple, how easy this assignment
    is. I have to agree. Ivan made it clear that he was not willing to take time to
    think for a few moments before asking the world to help him. Do you really think
    there's no evidence of laziness here? \r\n\r\nThought is the issue. If a student
    starts off unwilling to think, and in addition unwilling to communicate his request
    in a clear way, and furthermore expects others to do everything for him, and hasn't
    bothered to ask his professor for clarification, then it doesn't encourage anyone
    to be helpful, and it doesn't sound like there's much interest in design. It's
    not his age that's offensive, it's his breezy unconcern with detail, communication,
    problem solving and even basic manners. The only thing Ivan didn't do to turn
    me off is say \"thanks\" at the end of his message, completing the picture of
    entitled expectation. I've seen that before here and it's repellent. \r\n\r\nYou've
    noticed that Typophiles have demonstrated time and again their generosity with
    ideas, information, type IDs and more, so there must be some merit to the responses
    Ivan got. Ivan did say anything will help; he must be prepared for some of this
    kind of feedback. The thing underlying this is that Typophile gets a lot of these
    requests, and they range from very considerate, curious and engaged, to completely
    entitled and slovenly. A little thought, a little effort, a little punctuation
    go a long way. \r\n\r\nAs Chris pointed out, Ivan isn't a baby needing protection,
    he needs to discover what the ingredients of design are. Almost all the responses
    he got were meant to provoke thought. If he is unwilling to think at all, then
    there isn't a lot anyone else can do to help him. Spoon-feeding him answers isn't
    help, it's pampering. "
  created: '2006-10-28 19:14:46'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "double entry\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-29 02:35:44'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite>My earlier comment about professionals asking us to pick fonts for
    them (which you keep bringing up </cite>\r\n\r\nI didn't bring that up. I thought
    it was you! Or someone else but not me. lol!\r\nAnyway, I don't see the point
    of this: I'm concerned about cheap hostility and cliches and you reply with more
    and more cliches. Oh, the master who treats students like shit and has no patience
    with interns but hey! It's for their own good! Sounds like a mexican novel (or
    a Chip Kidd book).\r\nI hope at least you pay your employees a good salary because
    from here it sounds like the kingdom of fear. Or like a sweatshop.\r\nAnd I don't
    see the point of comments like the first one Ivan received (thanks James), that's
    bullying. It's rude and pompous and I don't believe anyone can benefit from that.\r\nSuddenly
    everyone seems to know what Ivan needs but please proceed to check out first.
    In US. \r\nI love the use of the word repellent. Very ironic."
  created: '2006-10-29 04:02:12'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "It is sad that only a few of the first responses were actually a valid response
    of any use to the poster. Yeah, so the OP has no ideas. Not sure what that is
    like, but it sounds depressing. Why harass him, and if there was nothing for some
    here to post to help, why not just pass? Wait and see if he comes back with an
    attempt, since that was the suggestion of all the non-hatin' responses. Chiding
    won't prevent the next guy form coming along with the same Q.\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019ve
    had a lot of design students work for me and if any of them ever came to me and
    said \u201Cwhat font should I use?\u201D I\u2019d have fired them.</em>\r\n\r\nI've
    had a lot of bosses that crap on any ideas they are offered, ad they play a passive
    agressive game of wanting you to reach theri conclusion. Eventually, you realize
    this is an inefficient game, and you just ask them what they want. Of course,
    the people like that are the ones most likey to gloat about firing people too.
    (Rather than see it as an unfortuate and expensive event for all parties, like
    any discipline.)\r\n\r\n<em>You have to have a thick skin in this business, as
    in most.</em>\r\n\r\nHmm, I wonder what makes it that way.~\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\nSatya:\r\nI've
    got to say, I really enjoy the treatment you did on \"minimal\". To me, it stands
    out, and has been worth not only a look again, but coming back to contemplate
    twice more since. I love it.\r\n\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-10-29 04:59:04'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Oh yeah, to the OP, here's an answer:\r\nmoving \u2022 bend \u2022 grow \u2022
    reach\r\nnow, play with them and try to make them all look long/stretchy/wavy
    and coming from the same point, flip through your font list til it looks cute.
    It's a lousy idea, but it is better than none.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-10-29 05:02:38'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Lore...you don't agree with any of us. That's cool. We get it.
  created: '2006-10-31 15:25:53'
- author:
    name: alison
  body: "Im a student and remember doing the same project with expressive typography.
    Although I have personally found typophile a great source of information with
    other projects, I feel that asking for answers is not the way the project should
    be approached. Anyone seriously interested in creativity and design would really
    enjoy this project and the chance to experiment and explore with type.\r\n\r\nThrough
    asking though there has been some useful advice posted on ways to approach the
    project for Ivan.\r\n\r\nIf you're still in need of inspiration I'd suggest getting
    the book \"A Smile In The Mind\" (Beryl McAlhone and David Stuart) Its full of
    clever and witty thinking :) "
  created: '2006-10-31 15:48:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I enjoyed the book \u201CA Smile In The Mind\u201D as well :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-31 15:54:59'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite>Lore\u2026you don\u2019t agree with any of us. That\u2019s cool. We
    get it.</cite>\r\nOh thanks god for that!\r\nNow serious, Darrel: I think Choz
    basically said what I said (just he put it with more class!). \r\nIf I'm not mistaken
    Tim is also not condemning and some people did offer some support, which means
    that they are not condemning Ivan either and that they don't mind offering some
    sort of professional advice, even if limited.\r\nI don't see why you should speak
    on behalf of everyone here but there you go... \r\nthis is not going on forever
    is it? 'Cause I said pretty much everything I had to say and I'm ready to move
    on now!  "
  created: '2006-10-31 16:12:25'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Lore, \r\n\r\nYou are responding in such a hostile and defensive way, I have
    to assume you are taking the comments here personally. Not a good idea for a designer.
    Design is generally very collaborative. Every idea isn't pure gold. And if there
    are no ideas, well.... \r\n\r\nConsider that others' perspectives might be as
    valid as yours. Each of us has had experiences that led us to our present positions.
    You have no idea how deep that experience is in any given case. For instance,
    do you remember having to indicate clean type in the 1960's for a client presentation
    with a carpenters' pencil? Some of us do. Some of us have learned our trade under
    much more demanding supervisors than Patty, and we've benefited greatly from firm
    direction and high expectations. Don't equate criticism with cruelty. You don't
    learn anything when you don't get honest feedback. You don't learn when you ignore
    honest feedback either. ;)"
  created: '2006-10-31 17:55:25'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: 'Thanks Carl. I am not taking anything personally and I think the hostility
    didn''t started with my comments, in fact I was reacting against the hostility
    demonstrated towards Ivan. I am not going to repeat everything now. As I said
    above: this is my opinion (and it seems I''m not the only one) and I''m ready
    to move on. As darrel said, you don''t agree with me, that''s cool, I get it.;
    )'
  created: '2006-10-31 18:03:08'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: Why are their so many fruitless debates as of late? Especially when the energy
    is wasted on threads like this one.
  created: '2006-10-31 19:00:46'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Why are their so many fruitless debates as of late? \"\r\n\r\nDaylight
    Savings Time. Winter is here. Less daylight. Then DST, so we get home in the dark.
    We're all grumpy, going online just to have the glow of the LCD, which is admittedly
    a poor replacement for the sun...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-31 19:16:15'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I think there's a kernel of an interesting debate in here, about how best
    to help someone figure out a design problem, it's just been buried by verbose
    rhetoric (I'm not letting myself off the hook here either).\r\n\r\nSometimes this
    forum veers dangerously close to group therapy LOL"
  created: '2006-10-31 19:17:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/chris5cents_6744.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-31 19:23:08'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite>I think there\u2019s a kernel of an interesting debate in here, about
    how best to help someone figure out a design problem</cite>\r\nTotally agree.
    Thanks. \r\n\r\nTo me is not wasted time/energy otherwise I wouldn't be here.
    However, if you feel this is is a waste of <cite>your</cite> time/energy, maybe
    <cite>you </cite>shouldn't be here. There is a huge number of threads on typophile,
    <cite>I personally </cite>choose this one to hang around because the discussion
    about how best to help someone figure out a design problem does interest <cite>me</cite>.
    You don't have to do the same if you feel you have nothing to add to the discussion.
    \r\n"
  created: '2006-10-31 20:58:39'
date: '2006-10-25 04:42:56'
node_type: forum
title: NEED HELP WITH TYPOGRAPHY PROJECT

---
