---
author:
  name: starlux
body: "Hello all,\r\n\r\nYou've been a great help in the past. Hopefully, you'll have
  a moment or two give me a little criticism this time around. \r\n\r\nI'm working
  on a new logo for myself. Hydrate is now the name for my freelance design site.
  I've been working in two directions so far. Please let me know if you think either
  of these directions is worth pursuing.\r\n\r\nFYI: I'm using the following definitions
  as inspiration for the logos\r\n\r\n1. to combine chemically with water\r\n2. To
  supply water to in order to restore or maintain fluid balance\r\n\r\nDirection 1:
  Uses Sophisto. I like the feel of this font. It has a techno/scientific feel that
  I like. I tweeked the the \"r\" and the \"a\" a bit trying to get a better relationship
  between the two. I'm not sure if that is working out. And I've filled some of the
  characters with blue to indicate water.\r\n\r\nDirection 2: (I'm now staring at
  the typophile logo and thinking it looks very similar) Anyway the idea here is to
  indicate an \"H\" and a \"+\" symbol. The question is do you see the plus symbol?
  And in which one does it read the clearest? I'm using avenir below...not sure I
  want that.\r\n\r\nThank you for your help\r\n\r\nTamara\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "My vote is for concept 1; it's a really interesting idea to fill the bowl
    with water. I like concept 2 visually, but the \"+\" only comes across in 2b,
    which I don't really like - too much blue. For concept 1, I much prefer b to a
    - the three filled bowls of a are overdoing it, I think. Maybe experiment with
    which letter should have the blue fill, as the d might work just as well. If you
    choose concept 2, I'd go with choice a, which is the best balanced in color.\r\n\r\nAs
    for the type, I like both your choices. Sophisto is pretty much what you want,
    something crisp and simple. There might be other sans-serifs that work just as
    well, but there's nothing wrong with it. Avenir fits concept 2 as well; it gives
    it a modern, pseudo-corporate feel, almost as if it were from a bottled water
    label. Overall, very nice job!"
  created: '2006-10-26 01:57:02'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: I liked 1b.
  created: '2006-10-26 02:08:56'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "1b for me too. If you are really pushed for time 1b is decent/solid enough
    to live with.\r\n\r\nI do think Hydrate is a really fun name. It perhaps deserves
    more. If you do have time I imagine that water distortion, Sponge letters, water
    drops, not to mention hoses, watering cans, fire hydrants and I am sure 1000 other
    things could be investigated!"
  created: '2006-10-26 03:36:59'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Hey Satya nice photo, It's always good to put a face to the name,\r\n\r\nI'd
    go concept no. 1. yes I think no. 2 may be a touch close to typophile ;)\r\n\r\nMy
    humble advice is to go a bit further, you've got the concept of water interacting
    with letters, it's a good concept but it seems like there's more room to take
    it in different directions. filling the bowls/counters of the letters is a simple
    solution but perhaps isn't special enough for a logo.\r\n\r\nSomething I tell
    myself often is that I don't need to somehow remain faithful in a 1:1 relationship
    with a concept, but I rather need to recognise that a concept is a starting point
    and not a straitjacket. It is not necessary for a viewer to 'get' straight away
    what they are looking at, but rather to get a feel or a sensation that is relevant.\r\n\r\nFor
    example, what would happen if you deleted the black outlines around the blue bowls
    and treated the blue colour as a dynamic shape, where could you take that? etc
    etc etc. It's always worth spending a bit more time brainstorming ideas out on
    paper even when you think you've got something, don't be an editor at this point,
    that will kill it, just let the ideas come from that starting point\r\n\r\ntake
    it or leave it, it works as it currently is but maybe there's room to add more
    interest\r\ncheers\r\n\r\n--N "
  created: '2006-10-26 04:07:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Yes, don't forget your friend the pencil.
  created: '2006-10-26 04:35:15'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "thanks, nicholas :)\r\n\r\ntamara, for easy reference always insert your
    photos on the screen. untill unless its too big or a different format like pdf.\r\n:)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hydrate_6069.jpg]"
  created: '2006-10-26 05:14:47'
- author:
    name: Da Kine
    picture: 111014
  body: "I prefer 2-C. Perhaps the \"+\" isn't as obvious as the other versions, but
    the overall balance of the design is very attractive and \"modern looking,\" (whatever
    that means?)---\r\nDB~"
  created: '2006-10-26 05:18:05'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "series 1 is stronger, IMHO.\r\n\r\nThat said, I agree with others. Hydrate
    is a great name but I think you're limiting yourself a bit by going a tad too
    literal with the definition. Spend some time (if you can) playing with the concept
    some more."
  created: '2006-10-26 15:13:56'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: "Thanks for the comments and encouragement. You're right...I spent a long
    time trying to come up with a good name (finally came to me in the shower while
    looking at a bottle of shampoo). I should allow myself a little more time to play
    with this. I'll be out of the office all day so I'll bring my drawing pad along
    and sketch.\r\n\r\nI'll upload any new ideas I have as soon as I can. Satya...I
    see...I never noticed the insert image link below the comment box...I'll insert
    here next time.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-26 16:17:13'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nI've finally had a moment to get back to this. Unfortunately,
    I need to settle on something before I get swamped again in a few days. As you
    can see I'm trying to keep the logo very clean. And I'm still enamored of the
    Sophisto. It just feels right to me. Series 5 is a bit of a departure. I treated
    the letters like a hose. Unfortunately, I don't think it's going to read at small
    sizes and probably needs a lot more tweeking to make it work.\r\n\r\nI'm looking
    forward to your comments.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hydrate2_4375.jpg]"
  created: '2006-11-03 01:24:01'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: What if you had a mirror image of hydrate (white on blue ) below the green
    letters. Then you could have a stream of water comming from the 'r'. The water
    could be at the base of the y & be an oval. I would mock it up - i can see it
    so clearly - but that would spoil it for you I think. 4a gave me the idea. The
    'r' looks like a sink faucet. Waddya think?
  created: '2006-11-03 01:47:00'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Or, the 'r' could be filling the bowl of the 'a', similar to the first post.\r\n\r\n
    - Lex"
  created: '2006-11-03 02:44:43'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: What if you simplify it even more? How about the type (Sophisto) with one
    drop clinging to the bottom of one of the letters?
  created: '2006-11-03 03:31:02'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "yeah really nice work, \r\n\r\nI like the hydrate with the drop and the plus
    sign best, very clean, strong and probably bit more timeless than the hose writing
    and the more cartoony/representational sploosh\r\n\r\nHose writing is however
    a great concept and reminds me of one of my favourite logos: <a href =\"http://www.hopscotchfilms.com.au/flash.html\">
    hopscotch </a>  it's so cool. \r\n\r\nbut on the water-drop one, do you need the
    boxwork? s'not horrible but maybe the shapes of the letters and drop are strong
    enough on their lonesome\r\nthoughts for what they're worth\r\n\r\n--N"
  created: '2006-11-03 03:35:21'
- author:
    name: DRR
  body: I like the idea of the lowercase r as a spigot. I can see it too now that
    it is mentioned.
  created: '2006-11-03 03:55:11'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: "Thanks all. I also think the drop with the plus sign is closest to working.
    I'll trying losing the boxes and see how it holds up. \r\n\r\nAnd the r as a spigot...I
    see it...great idea! I'm definitely going to try it out. I'll post again this
    weekend."
  created: '2006-11-03 20:11:34'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I would also look at the shape of the drop the top left and right should
    (I think) be concave rather than convex and rounder at the bottom, you could (if
    you keep the box) increase the size of the drop so that it starts outside the
    box and increase it in size. I think the tight kerning is at odds to the space
    used in the box and the mark. I think you could make the hose idea but I think
    you have to bring in more movement, maybe with a bit of perspective, and as you
    say increase the weight of the stroke and find an alternative way of making the
    \"dra\" because there are a lot of verticals which are quite tight and heavy.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-11-04 09:44:27'
- author:
    name: kco
    picture: 110793
  body: "Tamara, \r\n\r\nSo far #3 is the best for me but it just seems to be the
    easiest solution. Play around with the sizing of it a bit and perhaps see what
    kind of counter shapes you can get.\r\nIm giving you another quick arrangement
    but perhaps explore this more. Negative shapes can sometimes create interesting
    icons.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/drop_5103.gif]\r\n\r\nThe hose writing
    could be a very beautiful but tricky and painful wordmark. BUt if you can pull
    it off could work. It also reminds me of this logo/typeface that  <a href=\"http://www.muccadesign.com/\">mucca
    design </a> created. I dont think its available though but you get the idea. I
    would keep it connected.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/balazs_6041.gif][img:sites/default/files/old-images/balazs2_5021.gif]\r\n\r\nI'd
    be careful in filling the counter shapes of your earlier versions. Depending on
    the media logos should work well in black and white and with color. So if this
    were to be in black the counter shapes would be lost. Now if its for web ONLY
    well I've seen all kinds of crazy logos with millions of colors etc. but in any
    case I would avoid that.\r\nHope this helps.\r\n\r\nKco"
  created: '2006-11-12 00:11:43'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: i was thinking of a drop of water too rather than what you had in mind before.
  created: '2006-11-18 00:18:21'
- author:
    name: alchion
    picture: 110619
  body: 'I love the choice of colors from the first round. I think the font choice
    is strong but that a bit modification would be worth exploring, rounding it out
    a bit maybe, exchanging the counter in the lowercase "a" with a drop shape. Stick
    with simple, the old saying is true "less is more". Make sure it reproduces in
    very small sizes. '
  created: '2006-12-04 20:50:56'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nI've finally had a chance to get back to work on my logo.
    Now I'm definitely in a rush to get it done.\r\n\r\nAs you can see, I've gone
    in another direction. A couple of months ago I did some sketching. The strongest
    sketch was the ariel view of a bird on a fountain. I'm going for something fairly
    stylized. I'm pretty sure I'm happy with the image but I'm worried that the type
    may be taking a way from it.\r\n\r\nThat said...what do you think? I've looked
    at this for too long and need fresh eyes.\r\n\r\nThank you for your help.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hydratebird2_4752.jpg]"
  created: '2007-01-10 20:45:36'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "There are several problems with this logo idea ( as presented)  that I see:\r\n\r\n-
    Neither the bird nor the water thing ( bird bath fountain? how can we guess?)
    is shaped so that it is recognzeable instantly. And it's not thet you have an
    aha moment either. They are just not strong.\r\n\r\n- the color is essential to
    the logo making sense. This is not good. it may need to be in in B&W.  \r\n\r\n-
    the blue when printed in B&W (unless you make special b&w version which might
    be accidentally NOT used) will print as dark obscuring the name\r\n\r\n- The letters
    are placed so closely to gether that they dont read very effectively especially
    the lowercase.\r\n\r\nMy advice. Make it work in B&w first so that color is a
    bonus but not required, Make your bird more birdlike. Conside a different angle.
    Find somebody who can draw if you cannot. Make the name bigger or clearer or both.
    \r\n\r\nAnd keep considering new ideas. What about a storm cloud with reversed
    white on grey type? You could use a photo or get a weather icon. What about a
    watering can? What about a melting ice cube - you could write the name out with
    your finger on glass so the meltwater spells it out. Or the reverse use a glass
    that has been sprayed and is beaded up with water. Then use your finger ( or whatever)
    \ to make the beads join and up flow away revealing your letters...\r\n\r\ngood
    luck!"
  created: '2007-01-10 22:38:44'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: "Eben,\r\n\r\nThanks for the comments. I was wondering if it was recognizable
    as a bird...I agree a stylized bird from this angle is a little more difficult
    read. And the text is crowded. I think I knew that when I got up this morning
    but kept trying to tweak it instead of backing away and trying something else\r\n\r\nThe
    storm cloud idea is interesting especially since I used a cloud in the logo I
    designed for my previous name...starlux (see attached). It may be nice way to
    transition to a the new name.\r\n\r\nI'll keep working and post again soon.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/starlux_logo_4489.jpg]"
  created: '2007-01-11 00:16:12'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: "I quickly put this together to get feedback. Let me know what you think.
    \"r\" is used as a faucet in this series (except for 7a).\r\n\r\nUnfortunately,
    I'm considering just scrapping it all and going back to the first solution minus
    the fills, because I need to get this done quickly.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hydrate7_6342.jpg]"
  created: '2007-01-11 02:12:40'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> The storm cloud idea is interesting especially since I used a cloud
    in the logo I designed for my previous name\u2026starlux (see attached). It may
    be nice way to transition to a the new name. </cite>\r\n\r\nGOOD POINT! \r\n\r\nIf
    you are hell bent on getting it done & I have to pick I would go with 7a but I
    would go over my letter spaces and think about a 50% grey for the drop (or 33%?),
    and find a way to make the 'a' seem more pefectly distorted.\r\n\r\nI do like
    the cloud idea though. What if the h & d ( maybe t) were made rom rainshower lines
    coming down from the cloud maybe at an angle?\r\n\r\nWhat if you took a laser
    printed page & put it under water & made the water wobble & took photos? Then
    took the image into illutrator & made new outlines using the watery distortion?"
  created: '2007-01-11 08:36:26'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'I don''t see any images. Are you uploading CMYK JPGs? '
  created: '2007-01-11 14:55:13'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I see the images. When I copy them into an image editing program they appear
    to be RGB. Unless it's switching it on the fly which I mostly doubt. What browser
    have you got?
  created: '2007-01-11 18:06:02'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: "Aluminum, I checked and the only image that is a CMYK JPG is the on the last
    post I made. I'm reattaching an RGB version. Eben, I like the last idea you suggested.
    I think I'll give that a shot and the cloud idea too. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/hydrate7_5559.jpg]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-11 18:15:27'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: I would explore something like a bottle being filled.
  created: '2007-01-11 20:36:34'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Ooh - 7e - you could do something subtle with the counter of the 'A'.\r\n\r\n
    - Lex"
  created: '2007-01-11 21:06:13'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "now I see it!\r\n\r\nThese all seem a bit too literal.\r\n\r\nI like Lex's
    idea. Make it subtle. "
  created: '2007-01-11 22:27:33'
- author:
    name: fernandoLins
  body: I lik 1b from the first concepts. The faucet one doesn't attract me as much.
  created: '2007-01-14 23:14:17'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: I like Lex's idea as well. I just had a quick moment to try it out. I used
    Din this time and then rounded the corners. Is the space between the R and the
    A weird?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hydrate8_5271.jpg]
  created: '2007-01-15 19:25:20'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: "Sorry about that. Looks like I uploaded another cmyk jpg on the last post.
    Try this.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hydrate8_5917.jpg]"
  created: '2007-01-15 21:08:37'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "I like this one.\r\n\r\nAs for the kerning, I'm no expert, but I think since
    \"HYD\" can't be kerned any closer, and neither can \"RA\" or \"TE\", maybe \"DR\"
    and \"AT\" could be opened up a tiny bit. But again, I'm really bad with kerning,
    and someone else will probably come by and say the opposite of what I just said.\r\n\r\n
    - Lex"
  created: '2007-01-15 21:21:51'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: It's a logo. You can modify the letterforms specially. You SHOULD even. I
    would open up the kerning & try it in a green box with white text & the blue droplet
    maybe.
  created: '2007-01-15 22:27:34'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: "I'm back. I altered the \"R\" some. I didn't like the way the R and A worked
    together in the previous version. Eben, I tried your suggestion of reversing the
    type on green. I think it looks pretty nice. I also tried a slightly different
    approach with series 9.\r\n\r\nI think for now I'll stick with the 8 series.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hydratemore_3899.jpg]"
  created: '2007-01-31 00:19:46'
- body: "I like the droplet in the A. Simple, clever, and memorable without being
    dull. \r\n\r\nIf you're going to amputate the foot of the R, perhaps amputating
    the hands of the Y would make it seem ... well, a less random amputation?  Right
    now, it feels a bit like a random act of violence :)\r\n\r\nAK "
  created: '2007-01-31 00:46:14'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: "Thanks Alaskan.\r\n\r\nI'll try that."
  created: '2007-01-31 01:10:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "You could also connect the R & A. Instead. I don't think I agree with Alaskan's
    eye-for-an-eye model of type violence...  \r\n\r\nAlso - I like the 8c. The 'violence'
    catches my eye, makes me look at the droplet ( a tiny bit more saturated blue
    maybe ), then I read the name, I get it & I will remember the logo.  Is it perfect?
    Not sure. You might want to try other things, but I would put 8c aside as something
    that might be a keeper. It works better in the box for sure. 8c is the 1st in
    the series I would be willing to wear on a tshirt. See what I mean? "
  created: '2007-01-31 02:59:36'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: "I tried cutting off the hands of the Y but the spacing didn't work out so
    well. \r\n\r\nAs you can see I progressively altered the individual letters. In
    versions g-i, I added slab like pieces to the Y to try to balance things better.
    I'm wondering though if it is getting progressively noisier. \r\n\r\nRight now
    I'm thinking version 8e, 8f, 8g are closest to working.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hydrate_series8_5775.jpg]"
  created: '2007-01-31 18:30:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Yeah, this is getting busy and loosing it's elegance and power. Except for
    8d & 8e, either of which are nice and strong!
  created: '2007-01-31 19:23:03'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: 'Thanks for your help Eben. I''m going to let it rest for a little bit but
    I think I''m going to go for 8d. We''ll see. :) '
  created: '2007-01-31 19:38:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Yeah, I would go 8d too. Have you locked up the domain name?
  created: '2007-01-31 19:39:58'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: 'hydrate.com was taken. So I bought hydratecreative.com. I won''t be using
    "creative" in the logo though. '
  created: '2007-01-31 19:42:53'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I agree with Eben about too much going on, in many ways I think to go back
    to 8a and increase the kerning, specifically the DR and slightly the ATE, would
    be best. Let the drop be the stand-out item.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-31 19:44:43'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "hope you don't mind ... noticed an avenue you hadn't explored as far as I
    could tell ...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hydrate_concept_6310.gif]\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com/print.htm\">Design, Melbourne</a>\r\n----------\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.littlemischief.com\">Little Mischief</a>"
  created: '2007-02-06 01:35:18'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Paul, I'd actually use the drop as the 'D' and rotate it about 30 degrees
    CC. I'm reading \"HYDROTE\" right now.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2007-02-06 01:48:04'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "yep. also considered that Lex. didn't want to spend too long on it eh. nor
    turn every stone over.\r\n\r\n... or a gradient in the A fading to transparent
    below the baseline\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n:)\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br
    />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com/print.htm\">Design,
    Melbourne</a>\r\n----------\r\n<a href=\"http://www.littlemischief.com\">Little
    Mischief</a>"
  created: '2007-02-06 03:00:26'
date: '2006-10-26 01:42:45'
title: Please offer feedback on my logo

---
