---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: "I was looking at Gunnlaugur Breim's rather amazing site again today and I found
  this:\r\n\r\nhttp://briem.ismennt.is/2/2.3.5a/2.3.5.08.bad.shapes.htm\r\n\r\nIt's
  all about really troublesome letter combinations for both setting & design of fonts.
  The combinations he deals with include CT, HJ, & rv.\r\n\r\nLooking at the word
  'October' in caps I am noticing that some fonts solve the problem with comparitively
  a closed C. These include: Bell Gothic & Univers. When I look at other type designers
  I notice the C&T are kerned quite heavily & closer than I would have imagined before
  I looked: examples are Scala, Fago, Georgia, Legato & Kepler. In fact, that seems
  to be the usual method for fonts with a cap C that is more open in shape. The only
  other varient I have found so far is similar to the closed gothic C : Courier, Times,
  Big Caslon and Zaphino all use substantial serifs which pair with the down serifs
  on the T to even up the Notan. \r\n\r\nI am collecting examples like this now for
  a Notan related project. So my questions are: \r\n<ul>\r\n<li>What do you think
  of Breim's examples of 'Bad Shapes'?\r\n\r\n<li>Do you have combinations any to
  add? Maybe a list of Semi-bad shapes? \r\n\r\n<li>How do you solve for Breim's Bad
  shapes? Are you happy with the solution?\r\n\r\n<li>Would you consider using an
  alternate form of a 1st, 2nd or both letters to solve the problem instead? (Using
  Opentype scripting to detect the combination & swap in a varient glyph/s?) Why or
  why not?\r\n\r\n<li>Calligraphers & Stone Carvers have a lot more leaway to deal
  with these 'Bad Shapes' than we traditionally have as type designers. Would you
  be interested in a collection of examples that shows how they handle them?\r\n\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Do you have combinations any to add?</em>\r\n\r\n'LA' (listed) and 'ra'
    are my least favorite combos.\r\n\r\n<em>Would you consider using an alternate
    form of a 1st, 2nd or both letters to solve the problem instead?</em>\r\n\r\nyes"
  created: '2006-10-26 14:25:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I actually love \"ra\", because it [further] validates my ideal form of \"a\".\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ra_3703.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-26 16:31:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Type design criteria are multi-variant, so solving a problem of fit in one
    place may create a problem of fit elsewhere. Hrant's example optimizes the r_a
    combo, but until one knows how this particular r combines with other glyphs that
    follow it, or how this particular a combines with other preceding glyphs, it is
    only a partial solution. However, as this is one of the problem spots, it is a
    good place to start.\r\n\r\nContextual alternates can be useful, but they don't
    have to be drastic. Here's a \"ligature\" that I'm considering. (Left: basic,
    right: contextual alternate)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Wh_5076.png]"
  created: '2006-10-26 17:30:18'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Ti is a painful combination. Wa is also painful.
  created: '2006-10-26 17:40:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) Of course the adequacy of a pair's spacing depends on what's around it*,
    but when you bring a given pair closer in color to the mean, it's inherently a
    good thing** because more often than not it will help. Furthermore, since both
    the left of the \"r\" and the right of the \"a\" are very \"solid\", it's pretty
    much ensured that you will not end up with an unusually large gap on either side.
    BTW, a telling question: do you space the left side of your \"k\" different than
    that of the \"h\"?\r\n2) The \"a\" there has a \"soft\" top-left (in fact, top)
    not because of the \"r\" - that's its normal form - it's because I think such
    an \"a\" contributes more to readability.\r\n\r\n* Try to space \"LAWYERING\"
    and you'll get it real fast!  :-)\r\n\r\n** Although it's still always important
    to remember that there's such a thing as too much even color.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-26 17:46:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>do you space the left side of your \u201Ck\u201D different than that
    of the \u201Ch\u201D?</em>\r\n\r\nNot usually, I think the metre of the vertical
    stroke is more important than the color of the glyph, but I have actually done
    it on a more irregular face, Oneleigh:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Onek_5081.png]"
  created: '2006-10-26 19:37:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I meant for a \"k\" and \"h\" with identical left profiles. Your own logic
    (which I agree with, although it's mis-applied above) leads to the necessity of
    spacing them differently on the left (to propagate the color which is different
    on the right)... so please do!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-26 19:46:18'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Hrant, why don't you post an image of what you mean because I am not following
    you yet. Nick & Tiff, thanks for the examples! This is great!
  created: '2006-10-26 20:19:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The worst ever bad shape is g_y in metal Monotype Garamond Italic.\r\nI can't
    find a printed sample, but this is what it looks like:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Egypt_5252.png]"
  created: '2006-10-26 20:33:12'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Yowza! That definitely seems a case where contextual substitution would make
    a world of difference. And it would be justified because it would allow you to
    otherwise maintain historic forms ( assuming the are histic forms). If you were
    working on it would you just pull that tail under the g or alter the whole thing
    for fit? I think I would do the later... Nice one!
  created: '2006-10-26 21:39:52'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: '''gy'' is a ligature in the ATF Garamond Italic, for exactly the reason shown.
    Sorry I don''t seem to have a scan handy, all I can find right now are the romans.'
  created: '2006-10-26 21:52:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ouch, that's pretty bad. And one place Licko (see the italic of Mrs Eaves)
    could've saved the day.\r\n\r\n> why don\u2019t you post an image\r\n\r\nEben,
    this isn't something a picture -at least one that wouldn't take an unreasonable
    amount of time to make- can explain; please try the text again!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-26 22:02:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Or try this text:\r\nThe adequacy of the spacing of a pair depends on what
    other glyphs it is likely to be adjacent to. By the same token, the adequacy of
    the spacing of one side of a glyph depends on what the other side is doing. The
    most prominent example is the \"r\": when you know that the right side is always
    going to be a little loose (because otherwise it means its black body is dysfunctionally
    narrow and/or the beak crashes into bunches of things) then you make the left
    side slightly loose as well, to -gently- propagate the (un)even color. More subtly,
    the inevitable looseness on the right of a \"k\" (relative to the \"h\") means
    that it benefits from a slightly looser left. Mind you, we're talking about a
    distinction of ems you can count on the fingers of one hand; ignoring this refinement
    (what I call \"intraglyph color propagation\" - please don't shoot me) will make
    nothing stand out too much, since there are bigger (unavoidable) spacing imbalances
    \"built-in\" to any (conventional) font (and to some extent, alphabet). But like
    a somewhat long right foot-serif on an \"r\", it helps just that little bit.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-26 22:18:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Hrant - much better! \r\n\r\nBTW - When I brought up the contextual adjustment
    with Gerrit Noordzij he mentioned the 'r' first thing."
  created: '2006-10-27 00:47:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The \"r\" is to spacing what the conventional binocular \"g\" is to structure:
    both are overly-large spikes that need to be fixed. For the latter it's easy:
    just open the bottom bowl. But for the former the only good solution I can think
    of is unpalatable to most type designers: make the beak ascend (\xE0 la original
    Cheltenham). On top of fixing the spacing it would also make for better boumas.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-27 01:21:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'I think the answer is, rather than to try and close up everywhere and put
    in a lot of negative kerning, to keep a fair amount of open space or "Bad Shapes"
    throughout a face, because you can never get rid of combinations such as TW, LA
    in the caps, and Ya in the lower case. Also, if you kern things like Ya really
    tight, are you also going to kern space_Y, becasue if you do you will get stuff
    like f_space_Y where the f bumps into the Y. '
  created: '2006-10-27 04:14:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Nick, you are using contextual alternates already - it sounds like. But how
    do you decide to use it if not to avoid 'bad shapes' as it were?
  created: '2006-10-27 08:38:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Tackle the problem from both ends.\r\nBy tightening and kerning the big gaps,
    they are brought closer to the norm.\r\nAnd by distributing a little bit of gapiness
    throughout a face, an excess of grey combos is mitigated. "
  created: '2006-10-27 21:40:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And don't forget to help the black bodies accomodate the white.\r\nThe \"forms
    -> spacing -> kerning\" protocol is a dumb myth.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-27 21:47:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't follow protocol.\r\nMy technique is Total Type Design, modelled on
    the great Dutch football team of the 1970s, influenced no doubt by Crouwel's Total
    Design. Any chirography on the pitch, I wonder?"
  created: '2006-10-27 22:35:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just for the record: I didn't actually mean you (or really anybody specific).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-27 22:40:57'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "RE: Protocol. It does seem likley that different people will find different
    techniques work better for them than for others. David Berlow is quotes as saying
    he works from a-z. Not what the type design experts suggest... but I love his
    work. \r\n\r\n<cite> And by distributing a little bit of gapiness throughout a
    face, an excess of grey combos is mitigated. </cite> \r\n\r\nThis is wonderful.
    Do you think that the gappiness adds flavor to the font? Do you think it creates
    an eveness of fault? Or do you think it's a feature that adds to the font's readability?
    Or are all of these thing oversimplifications? \r\n\r\nWhat occured to me as I
    read this is that theoretically ( practicality being something else again ) you
    might be able to use contextual adjustment to make changes that alleviate the
    need for adding this gappiness. That is, asuuming that the gappiness was minor
    sort of 'fault'. But maybe that's the wrong sort of idea. \r\n\r\nIf the Gappiness
    was introducing contrasts or thinking of Peter, a useful 'cue' into a glyph/bouma,
    you might be able to create or admit more variety of contrasts into the face by
    using contextual adjustment to permit this greater dynamic range without letting
    it break the continuity of the face. The r & g might be examples where their excess'
    could be caught by more contexual adjustment rather than tempered.\r\n\r\nThe
    Wh example you gave seems like an instance of the 1st type. The Egypt example
    seems like an instance of the 2nd type too me.\r\n\r\nI am not sure there is a
    right way of doing any of this.\r\n\r\nBut what do you think?"
  created: '2006-10-28 00:38:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> distributing a little bit of gapiness throughout a face\r\n\r\nI tend to
    think this is exactly the sort of thing that makes a face too gray.\r\nLet the
    letters contribute their individualistic notan \"skew\" to boumas.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-28 01:20:41'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sawyer_5236.jpg]\r\nThere are certainly
    bad shapes out there, but that doesn't stop people from screwing up the easy ones. "
  created: '2006-10-28 01:20:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Let the letters contribute their individualistic notan \u201Cskew\u201D
    to boumas.</em>\r\n\r\nOf course, and they do, but at the same time, if the proportions
    of the type, when set, create an harmonic effect, that makes reading smooth and
    pleasurable, like chocolate. I don't think that these principles are mutually
    exclusive, but both required.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-28 05:18:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You see, I think all that harmony, smooth, rhythm stuff is mumbo-jumbo,\r\nwhen
    it comes to immersive reading. Chocolate isn't eaten subconsciously.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-28 05:26:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Chocolate provides nutrition, it tastes nice, and goes down easy.\r\n\r\nWhy
    shouldn't a subconscious process be preferred that slips meaning easily into the
    entrails of the brain, rather than requiring chewing or being dry and rough like
    toast?"
  created: '2006-10-28 05:33:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What I meant was your observation applies to chocolate, and the consciousness,
    but not immersive reading. But you don't think there's an essential difference
    between text and display, so this can't lead anywhere useful.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-28 05:36:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant, it's a figure of speech.\r\n\r\nFood provides nutrition = words provide
    meaning\r\nFood tastes nice = type has a pleasing appearance, golden section and
    all that stuff\r\nFood goes down easy = type reads easy\r\n\r\nComfort is a big
    factor in extended reading, or else you'd never finish a page.\r\n\r\nThese observations
    are pretty basic, not even involving a mention of the mechanism involved (subconscious,
    whatever).."
  created: '2006-10-28 05:48:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Comfort is a big factor in extended reading\r\n\r\nThe biggest. I just
    don't think harmony has anything to do with it, and I also\r\ndon't think there's
    anything smooth about it (not perceptually/mechanically).\r\nAnd to me the difference
    is <cite>entirely</cite> based on whether it's conscious or not, so you\r\ncan't
    get anywhere meaningful without that context.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-28 06:09:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tap1_4554.png]\r\nNot smooth like this\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Tap2_6334.png]\r\nSmooth
    like this"
  created: '2006-10-28 07:14:17'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Nick. Nice.\r\n\r\n<cite>I just don\u2019t think harmony has anything to
    do with it</cite> \r\n\r\nHrant: Nothing at all? What word would you use to describe
    the repeating shapes with variations? Or for that matter - what's wrong with rhythm?
    I often wonder if there is something in this distiction or if it's just hand waving
    & semantic choices that are different - that it's word choice rather than substance
    that is the point of disagrement. Not that word choice is irrelevant, but it can
    ditract from the meat of issue at times. I say this because I find it hard to
    imagine that some degree of harmony isn't needed to balance distictiveness of
    individual glyphs. And that is what I think I see in type faces of all kinds now.\r\n\r\nOr
    maybe you do want to reduce 'harmony' and replace it with bristle! What do you
    think?\r\n\r\n<cite> I tend to think this is exactly the sort of thing that makes
    a face too gray.\r\nLet the letters contribute their individualistic notan \u201Cskew\u201D
    to boumas. </cite>\r\n\r\nI can imagine a result where greyness is acheived -or-
    one in which more color & distictiveness is added. Wouldn't you need to look at
    an example to know which one was happening?\r\n\r\nBTW - I found some more 'bad
    shape\" combinations to ask about. I was thinking that rather than make blanket
    statements it might be useful to chew on some specific pairs & triples. To look
    at what is happening in them & then to comment - maybe each pair should be it's
    own thread. What do you think? If I plan to compare the difficulty of the combination
    with frequency data so we can talk about the more relevant combos 1st. I haven't
    done it yet. it could be that the most used pairs & the most difficult pairs are
    not an overlapping set. Or it could be the difficulty is more design specific
    than I realize."
  created: '2006-10-29 17:51:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> What word would you use to describe the repeating shapes with variations?\r\n\r\nPattern.
    It's just not romantic enough for some people I guess. They need to be hearing
    music <cite>all the time.</cite> Take a break dude. Like I've noticed I drive
    better when the radio is off.\r\n\r\n> Or for that matter - what\u2019s wrong
    with rhythm?\r\n\r\nAsk them to fix the archives.\r\n\r\nBristle? Good name for
    a font.\r\n\r\n> I find it hard to imagine that some degree of harmony isn\u2019t\r\n>
    needed to balance distictiveness of individual glyphs.\r\n\r\nIndeed, but it's
    not a formal visual harmony, not the naive stuff Modernism teaches us. It's the
    Heraclitian harmony, the deeper one. The one that says the glyphs in a font need
    to come together \"virtually\" to promote readability = form good boumas.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nThe
    words people use are charged. They have strong <cite>non-literal</cite> associations,
    and this motivates their use to some extent. For example when some people use
    \"rhythm\" in discussions of type design, when you put them on the spot they'll
    improvise a revised meaning for the term and won't admit that they started using
    rhythm in the first place because they actually want there to be a flow, even
    if they know -or are made to realize- that there can't be.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-29 18:14:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Wouldn\u2019t you need to look at an example to know which one was happening?\r\n\r\nI
    think there can be exceptions, but my point was that introducing <cite>gappiness</cite>
    (something qualitatively more than \"looseness\" in my mind) promotes gray to
    the point of reducing readability.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nJust start with \"r*\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-29 18:24:12'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I'll look back on your rhythym & flow arguements again. And start assembling
    & organizing my suite of shapes good bad & in-between for us all comment on. &
    try to find more ways of using '&'. ;-)
  created: '2006-10-30 23:02:55'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Indeed, but it\u2019s not a formal visual harmony, not the naive stuff
    Modernism teaches us. It\u2019s the Heraclitian harmony, the deeper one. The one
    that says the glyphs in a font need to come together \u201Cvirtually\u201D to
    promote readability = form good boumas.</cite>\r\n\r\nCare to recommend some reading?"
  created: '2006-10-31 03:07:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The Typophile archives?  :-/\r\n\r\nHeraclitus: \u1F01\u03C1\u03BC\u03BF\u03BD\u1F77\u03B7
    \u1F00\u03C6\u03B1\u03BD\u1F74\u03C2 \u03C6\u03B1\u03BD\u03B5\u03C1\u1FC6\u03C2
    \u03BA\u03C1\u03B5\u1F77\u03C4\u03C4\u03C9\u03BD. \"The hidden harmony is better
    than the obvious one.\" I don't think complete works by him have survived however.\r\n\r\nGlyphs
    coming together: many type designers note that a font is a beautiful collection
    of letters, not a collection of beautiful letters. And how could a <cite>collection</cite>
    be \"beautiful\", except non-formally, non-obviously?\r\n\r\nAs for boumas, please
    see my article in Typo#13.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-31 04:14:59'
date: '2006-10-26 08:23:16'
title: Breim's Bad Shapes

---
