---
author:
  name: Dan Gayle
  picture: 111595
body: "So here's the deal:\r\nI put this together for a wedding guide put out by my
  publishing company. I had a few hours to design it, and this is what I came up with.
  I thought I was being clever with the black/white space, and it gave me an opportunity
  to use Garamond Premier Pro. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/wedding-guide_5667.jpg]\r\n\r\nHere's
  the catch:\r\nEvery <cite>guy</cite> who looked at it thought that it was ok. Cool
  even. But the design was UNIVERSALLY LOATHED by <cite>every woman</cite> who caught
  sight of it. \r\n\r\nWe have a freelancer who also happens to be a wedding photographer,
  and she shot it down immediately. She said it was not \"feminine\" enough.\r\n\r\nARGH!
  That's what I thought I was making!\r\n\r\nWhat do you think? How do you make something
  (more) feminine?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Here's the .pdf  if anyone is interested...\r\n\r\nwww.dangayle.com/weddingguide.pdf"
  created: '2006-10-28 04:42:00'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "either change its colors to pink/magenta...or change the photograph to something
    in which female hands comes first.\r\nRight now it looks like someonez showing
    his hands to a finger's doctor;)\r\n\r\n**and plz increase the space between I
    and D in I Do...It reads IDo.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-28 04:53:18'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "Don't even show a man. Men are subservient (they think). Just show the bride
    with a goofy grin surrounded by her girlfriens.\r\n\r\nBingo!"
  created: '2006-10-28 04:54:11'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: '''I do'' looks a bit menacing. I hope your audience isn''t looking for Snell
    Roundhand, but it may just be a case of the type size choices you made. Weddings
    tend to be sensitive and intimate affairs. '
  created: '2006-10-28 04:57:18'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: I was told "classy." An elegant font, a sepia-toned photo... What more can
    you ask for?
  created: '2006-10-28 04:59:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It may just look a little bit too corporate for the wedding planning crowd.
    Hopefully some women will post and help with the feminine angle. It just may need
    to have a softer photo and use the italic version of Garamond.  Maybe women want
    to see more clothes and catering kind of stuff? Sorry, I am not of muchhelp with
    this.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-28 05:10:14'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "Dude. I swear. NO DUDE. Just the WOMAN...Watch the indent w/South District
    Journal. Cut it in half.\r\n\r\nMaybe the Garamond isn't the best choice. Do you
    have any single titling faces, like mmm...like perpetua titling...something reeealy
    elegant."
  created: '2006-10-28 05:18:57'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "A wedding planner should look romantic more than feminine and this just isn't
    either. I think the font is ok but the photo is all wrong - you can't tell at
    a glance what's going on and the design is, as Chris said, too corporate. I think
    you should check out some wedding magazines, Brides or Martha Stewart, to get
    a sense of what might appeal to women. \r\n\r\nThink FLOWERS. You don't have to
    go over the top with pink and script, sepia could be quite nice and elegant but
    you have to soften the design. Lose the hard edges.\r\n\r\n(Even tho I'm a woman,
    I'm not exactly the target audience since I think romantic is a quick hookup at
    city hall on your way to the airport for your honeymoon)"
  created: '2006-10-28 05:36:21'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I had a hard enough time just asking a close friend for her old Vogue magazines
    so that I could look at the designs. Now I have to look at Martha Stuart and all
    of the Bride-Zilla magazines? \r\n\r\nFirst of all, I'd have a hard time explaining
    it to the cashier who is giving me wierd looks. Second of all, don't those magazines
    cost something like $40 a pop? \r\n\r\nSigh... "
  created: '2006-10-28 06:12:15'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "As to the \"soft\" part,\r\n\r\nI thought I WAS making it soft!!!!\r\n\r\nARRGGGGGHHHH!!!"
  created: '2006-10-28 06:15:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Daniel, you're not married, are you.\r\n\r\nSigh...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-28 06:15:37'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: How often do I hear THAT question...
  created: '2006-10-28 06:16:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Bride-Zilla\r\n\r\nNow that's funny.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-28 06:16:17'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I'll just toss some big gay advice your way. If this needs to be feminine,
    the photo needs to be of a man putting a ring onto a woman's hand, and a big rock
    needs to be visible. Or even better, get a picture of a bride. Picking a prettier
    typeface is a must\u2013Garamond may be aesthetically pleasing, but it's still
    a workhorse, and looks like one. Get Zapfino Extra or House Holliday Script out
    for this one.\r\n\r\nAnd yeah, flowers."
  created: '2006-10-28 06:46:54'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: it's all very somber. i would say you need smiling faces and a typeface with
    a bit more flourish. if shooting for classy, i'd go for <a href="http://www.stormtype.com/typefaces-fonts-shop/typeface.php?id=153">Splendid
    Script</a> or ***shameless plug*** <a href="http://www.p22.com/ihof/font.asp?font=allyson&face=allysonpro">Allyson</a>.
    or at least a serif with some well-placed swashes.
  created: '2006-10-28 07:21:38'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Hmm,\r\n\r\nI wouldn't even go play on the white/black space. I'll just do
    a big, full bleed, full color, 'honest' photo.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.veer.com/products/detail.aspx?image=SIP2000629\">Have
    a look.</A> Got what I mean by 'honest'? I'll leave the further work to you, all
    I could think of at this hour is to put a ring in her finger to make the image
    work :)\r\n\r\nThen I would use an ultra light curvy sans like <A HREF=\"http://www.processtypefoundry.com/typefaces/bryant2/index.html\">Bryant</A>
    . For extra sugary effect, use pink or baby blue (the thin weight, then, becomes
    optional)."
  created: '2006-10-28 08:56:11'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Hmm, maybe more funeral than wedding...\r\n\r\nAs others have already said,
    it should be softer, swashes, italics... romantic, but not overtly sweet. And
    I think focusing on the bride is a good idea, they are the ones who decide on
    the wedding plans, after all!"
  created: '2006-10-28 08:57:27'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Surely that should read\r\nSeattle says\u2026\r\nI do\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-28 12:40:46'
- author:
    name: An Accident
  body: "This has been hinted at in previous comments, but one issue may be that the
    image is headless ...\r\nIt is also a little ambiguous but I think a major problem
    is the lack of heads (the \"smiling faces\" that others have commented on).\r\n\r\nShouldn't
    there be a space between the ellipsis and the 'I'? "
  created: '2006-10-28 12:52:44'
- author:
    name: An Accident
  body: "Aah, yes. I think Tim's comment is better:\r\n\r\nSeattle says ...\r\nI do.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-28 12:53:51'
- author:
    name: Martin LAllier
    picture: 110634
  body: Garamond's italics would maybe do the trick...
  created: '2006-10-28 13:33:24'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Dan, go to the d**m store and buy the magazines, they're not $40 a pop. Or
    at least look at them. Do you really care what the cashier thinks? It's not like
    you're buying hemorrhoid medication.\r\n\r\nBe clever with the black/white space
    on another project.\r\n\r\nAs I said before I (personally) don't think you need
    to go all pink and swashy but it has to look romantic and inviting. If you don't
    want to show the bride's face I'd either go for flowers or more of a closeup of
    the ring. This photo looks like she's doing hand reflexology."
  created: '2006-10-28 15:26:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The photo looks al lwrong, it looks confusing to see that sea of fingers
    (looks a bit too sausage package).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-28 15:58:26'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: he he . Sausagefingers
  created: '2006-10-28 16:14:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/seaatleWP_4204.png]\r\nThis sort of thing
    seems to work quite well these days."
  created: '2006-10-28 18:06:55'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Reminds me of these\r\n\r\nhttp://www.phaidon.com/travel/\r\n\r\ngood for
    the *wallpaper set but maybe not for the girl who's been planning her wedding
    since she was 5."
  created: '2006-10-28 18:22:01'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "What about this environment ?\r\nhttp://www.bnind.com/products/iconic/images/icn_helvetica_image_hero.jpg"
  created: '2006-10-28 18:40:24'
- author:
    name: Geo Ben
    picture: 111945
  body: "well... it all depends.\r\n\r\nif yer target audience is gonna be predominantly
    corporate drones, I would think this appropos. You might as well have a picture
    of them signing the license. \r\n\r\nbut, for regular folks... too design school
    rigid. What \"guys\" think borders on the irrelevant... women plan weddings, for
    the most part. \r\n\r\nand too... consider the sexist stereotype imagery, unfortunately,
    unavoidable. A man slipping a ring on a womans finger... surrender ('cause he
    love her so). Reverse it and the woman is claiming her prize. Get rid of the ring
    thing. \r\n\r\nIn fact, get rid of the people altogether. Marriage is an abstract
    and  is a lot more palatable in the abstract. Consider decorative materials including,
    yes, flowers. A combination of floral Script caps  and italic. Disperse the 'color'.
    The image as a whole is bottom heavy. \r\n\r\nMagazines, sure. (What? You dont
    have a library within a few miles?) But consider that other staple of wedding
    'promotional material'; find the classiest wedding invitation and study THAT.\r\n\r\nand
    avoid listening to advice from dedicated bachelors.\r\n\r\ngeo.\r\n\r\nand btw,
    patty... i like the way you think."
  created: '2006-10-28 18:44:59'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "thanks Geo ;\u2013) tell that to Lorenza!\r\n\r\nDan, there's also this lovely
    \u2014\_and free \u2014 thing called the internet. Try typing \"brides\" or \"weddings\"
    into Google and see what you get."
  created: '2006-10-28 18:52:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SWP_4061.png]\r\nSorry Patty, I forgot
    the frilly bit."
  created: '2006-10-28 20:14:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Now that's funny.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-28 20:38:55'
- author:
    name: cbohne
    picture: 111978
  body: "I thought the same thing as an earlier suggestion, if you love the design
    as is but need femininity, the easiest and most effective change would be a rose
    duo-tone. Also, a Woman's hand taking the forefront is a great suggestion.\r\n\r\n______________________\r\n\r\nCLB\r\n\r\nDesign
    should never say, \"Look at me.\" It should always say, \"Look at this.\"\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-28 21:13:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just use this:\r\nhttp://abeshelton.com/portfolio/albums/userpics/tmp/normal_trix_081003_abe15.jpg\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-28 21:16:49'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "^ Ha. Wedding kitsch.\r\n\r\nTry Tobias Wong's Killer Diamond Ring. \r\n\r\nWong
    makes engagement rings that can kill you. The razor-sharp diamond point is set
    into the ring so it can't get knocked out when you smash someone's face in, and
    the edges of the ring are really soft so it won't cut into your skin during the
    pounding. It's romantic because it means, \"Will you marry me?\" but it also means,
    \"I can't always be there to protect you so if some jerk won't stop bothering
    you, puncture him with this.\" The diamond sharp edge will also cut skin down
    to the bone (with a minimum 1 karat stone - but the larger the better). Or it
    may simply be used to tag hard surfaces, like cars and windows for S.O.S. messages
    or that last will and estimate when pen or paper (or lawyers) aren't conveniently
    around.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/killer_ring_4593.jpg]"
  created: '2006-10-28 22:45:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it also means, \u201CI can\u2019t always be there to protect you ...\r\n\r\nI
    suspect it means \"Break off the engagement and\r\nyou better go shopping for
    an eye-patch, bud\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-28 23:22:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Now that was a cut above the rest :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-29 03:19:59'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Well, as a hetero woman who's walked down (and back up) the aisle more than
    once, and to echo others, this is far too \"businesslike,\" but that doesn't mean
    you need all the mushy-gushy Martha crap either.  \r\n\r\nYes, some romance would
    be useful -- even after my experience, I'd like to think most people marry for
    love and not necessarily for the tax break -- but even making the picture four-colour
    instead of sepia would be a big improvement.  And if there's only the budget for
    one colour, go for a one that is well saturated (a rich, dark blue/green/wine/rust).
    \r\n\r\nOh, yeah, and a typeface that's a little more casual. Doesn't have to
    be terribly swishy, y'know: even Optima would be an improvement!\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-10-29 03:57:19'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite>thanks Geo ;\u2013) tell that to Lorenza!</cite>\r\n\r\nohhhhhhh...Pat,
    I don't hate you, silly. I just wouldn't like to work for you (I don't respond
    well to torture)\r\n\r\nand since I'm here: to me it's the creepy hand that comes
    out of nowhere and the woman that has got a big \"I do\" instead of a head. "
  created: '2006-10-29 17:17:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, the \"I Do\" is supposed to replace the <cite>man's</cite> head.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I could go into this thread full swing, but there's something nobody's mentioning
    and I can't help it: women prefer to <cite>receive</cite> hand massages; and if
    they ever give one they certainly don't like the middle finger to be overly eager
    for its turn like that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-29 17:28:58'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "\"the woman that has got a big \u201CI do\u201D instead of a head.\"\r\n\r\nI
    know so many women like that, unfortunately..."
  created: '2006-10-29 18:01:43'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "On a side note:\r\n\r\nThat Pacific Publishing Company logo resembles the
    \"parental advisory, explicit  lyrics\" badge placed like it is.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    its not something you can do something about as easily as the rest but it's worth
    thinking about."
  created: '2006-10-29 19:12:37'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite>That Pacific Publishing Company logo resembles the \u201Cparental advisory,
    explicit lyrics\u201D badge placed like it is.</cite>\r\nBrilliant side note:
    it's like the warning on fags. Warning: marriage is bad for your health.\r\n\r\nThe
    thing about flowers is that...even if you add flowers it could still remind a
    funeral. I would be careful what kind of flowers you pick. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-29 20:18:59'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Don't get me going on our logo. The \"Pacific\" part is the exact same font
    as the \"Publishing Company\" part. Only stretched to be-jesus.\r\n\r\nSo I take
    it that the photo is a large part of the mess. (By the way, the original photo
    that I had chosen was of a large diamond ring on white. But NOOO, we did that
    last year they said. Think of something new they said... BAH!)\r\n\r\nI chose
    that photo precisely because it wasn't a boring old wedding photo. I am certainly
    kicking myself now over the missing heads, but I thought the basic premise of
    a woman putting the ring onto the man's hands symbolized the empowered Seattle
    woman. And I also thought that the older-style dress would appeal to an older
    re-marrying generation.\r\n\r\nI still don't understand the Garamond thing though.
    I know that it is a workhorse font, but I was under the impression that it was
    a little too \"precious\" for a lot of applications. Hence, \"wedding\"=\"precious\".\r\n\r\nAnyone
    care to elaborate on why Garamond doesn't fit in this situation?"
  created: '2006-10-29 23:16:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Empowered? That would be the woman getting\r\nsomebody else to put the ring
    on the man's hand.\r\n\r\nOlder? Yeah, women love being reminded of that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-29 23:28:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The tough part with wedding stuff is that weddings are mostly about the brides
    mother wanting the \"perfect wedding\" for her daughter.  The father may write
    the checks but mom, daughter, and her best girlfriends really do the wedding.
    \ Maybe that makes it tough to crack the traditional wedding stuff.  Maybe their
    thought is just \"my pretty daughter in her bride suit.\"  The guy is just along
    for the ride.  Talk to mothers-of-the bride types and you may get a real picture
    of what the audience wants. Maybe they just want it to look like a wedding?\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-30 00:45:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Not \"a\" wedding, but \"better than what's-her-name's\" wedding.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 00:59:30'
- author:
    name: mad grab
  body: "my crit.\r\n\r\ni think Garamond doesn't look precious in this piece because
    the type is to loud (big). Its a planner not a poster. Tone it down a bit. \r\n\r\nI
    think the imagery is not really working either. The angle is not really appealing
    and hard to tell whats going on. The ring on the finger says commitment. I dont
    think photoshop will change that.\r\n\r\nPlanning weddings is about the flowers,
    cakes, location (outdoor wedding scenery ect. Flowing dresses.\r\n\r\nYou can
    do it! \r\n\r\nWhen I was in a wedding this summer and when I think about this
    project i picture rose pedals that were placed on the grass. The details of the
    brides wedding dress. The scenery since it was an outdoor wedding. Watching ducks
    drink from the near by stream. The botanical garden ect. \r\n\r\nYou get the point.
    Maybe having I do written in rose pedals.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 08:42:47'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1_4716.jpg]\r\n\r\nJust from my european(?)
    but surely german point of view:\r\n\r\nI like the design and the fonts you chose.\r\nAnd
    I like exactly a photo in this style.\r\n\r\nBut I understand why people (women)
    might say \r\n\"It's not feminine enough.\"\r\n\r\nIts the hands.\r\nThe gyus
    hand is not masculine, the girls hand not feminine enough.\r\nGiving the wedding
    ring to her husbands finger is a symbol for her to trust somebody until the end
    of her life. Its this two-thing, you know: man/woman. Be protected/protect. Get
    and Take.\r\n\r\nSo if you make this symbol stronger by taking more masculine
    (e.g. a workers hand) and feminine hands (long fingers, dezent fingernail lacquer),
    this would be more feminine, I guess. This is what the women want (shortly before
    their wedding).\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\nLong, long time married ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 10:58:09'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: I wonder what Laura Mulvey would say about these speculations...
  created: '2006-10-30 14:11:17'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Is it possible to ask her?\r\n\r\nI do not want to speak negative about a
    photographer.\r\nI want to say what I feel seeing the pic.\r\nThis is a workers
    couple's wedding.\r\nIt has a spirit of Teamsters union.\r\nAnd it should have
    a spirit of a man/woman realationship of love.\r\n\r\nThis is what I feel as an
    ex-member of a union and as a married man.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 14:44:02'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite>is it possible to ask her?</cite>\r\nWell, she's still alive as far
    as I know. I wasn't being sarcastic: I really think that her theories might be
    relevant in this case since we are dealing with issues of representation.\r\nLaura
    Mulvey (1989). Visual and Other Pleasures. Bloomington: Indiana University Press.\r\n\r\nThat's
    basic semiotic, see the graphic composition as a sequence. Or a group of graphic
    elements organised hierarchally. As a woman, what would you like people to see
    first? What is the most important element in your composition from a woman's point
    of view? Flowers: what do they say? Wedding or funeral? Then do the same for ring,
    for cake, for colours etc and place them according to their importance. but still
    considering unity. Well, that's at least how I pick photos."
  created: '2006-10-30 16:44:06'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "@ Well, what I thought:\r\n\r\nI have no idea why, but my wife likes my hands.\r\nAnd
    I do not think about it, its not important for me to know why, its only important
    that she does it. She sees a man's hand to be protected by.. so I thought this
    is an important positive aspect for a woman if she gets a brochure about wedding.
    To get a good feeling of protection.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand: I as a man and
    a becoming husband want to protect. A lady, a woman, a wife - all in one. So her
    hands should be.. sinnlich.. mhh.. moment pls.. I cannot find the english word.
    \"ladylike erotic\"? So this gives me a signal \"protect her..\"\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 16:57:29'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "My two cents...\r\n\r\nI would prefer to see the man sliding the ring onto
    the woman's hand. And to see the ring, at least a bit of it. \r\n\r\nI don't think
    (and am probably commiting a sin by assuming) that most women planning a wedding
    would want to see/think of themselves as empowered by claiming/catching their
    man. Romantic has to do with the woman being swept off her feet and the man wanting
    her so much he will marry her. \r\n\r\nA woman placing the ring on a man's finger
    borders on the ball and chain... the stereotype that a woman tricks a man into
    marriage so she can keep him. And let's be honest (I swear my usual outlook is
    more feminist than what I am about to say!) women prefer to be asked to dance,
    and they prefer to be proposed to, preferably on bended knee. (Think Pretty Woman
    with Richard Gere climbing the fire escape...) They want the fairytale.\r\n\r\nNow,
    women certainly want to be in control of all the details of the wedding... that's
    for sure. We wouldn't want to see a man selecting the flowers or the bridesmaid's
    dresses... But we want the initial proposal to be the man's.\r\n\r\nI would like
    to see details. Because isn't that what a wedding planner is for? Making it perfect
    down to the minute details. I'd like a series of close up images: flowers, ribbons/dress/lace/material,
    the cake, etc... \r\n\r\nI used to work in a dressmaking supply store. A huge
    part of our business was catering to women who were having a seamstress make their
    wedding dress and veil. You would not believe the hours that went into choosing
    just the right colour of tulle, buttons, trim, lace, appliqu\xE9s, you name it,
    to match the dress material. Hours I tell you. And committees of female family
    members. That's what wedding planning is about. Getting the mother of pearl button
    in the precise colour of off-white being used in the trim of the bonbonni\xE8res.
    Bah. That's why I'm not married!  \r\n\r\nKristina\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 17:14:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Lorenza, does Mulvey's book talk specifically about the female perspective
    on visual communication? That would be a very worthwhile read.\r\n\r\nGeorg, Dan
    isn't designing your anniversary album. In contemporary US society the woman gets
    her protection from her lawyers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 17:18:08'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "@ Kristina Drake\r\nVery interesting.\r\n\"A woman placing the ring on a
    man\u2019s finger borders on the ball and chain\u2026 the stereotype that a woman
    tricks a man into marriage so she can keep him.\"\r\nYes, you are right. Its the
    man's job to place the ring to her hand.\r\n\r\n@ hrant\r\n\"Georg, Dan isn\u2019t
    designing your anniversary album.\"\r\nWhy can't you stop to treat me?\r\nIts
    boring.\r\n\r\nSomething to do 'cause I am a German?\r\nYou wrote something about
    it in another thread.\r\nIs this your problem with me?\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 17:28:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Dan, if you had drawn a layout and art-directed the photo shoot, I don''t
    think you''d have the problems people are noticing. By cropping a stock photo
    radically, you have lost the original graphic configuration and sense of the shot.
    Of course, it''s possible to crop images and create solid new compositions, but
    it''s very tricky if you have a complex layout which is driving the issue, which
    seems to be the case here. So the picture has been compromised (missing heads,
    chopped fingers) when it should, as always, come first, before the type, before
    the layout. If you are going to crop and focus on the hands, you should have cropped
    tighter on the hands, and included them all. And you know, the focus of the picture,
    the ring, is not visible, which is not right. '
  created: '2006-10-30 17:33:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "?\r\nI like Germans. I was rooting for you during the World Cup.\r\n\r\nBut
    I do think that you (singular):\r\n1) Often project your personal world too far
    outward.\r\n2) Are not handling criticism well enough.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 17:38:46'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I don't think women need protecting. That's a dangerous message for a wedding
    guide. I think the overall feeling should be warm, romantic, joyous. No black
    background and ominous cropped hands. I think this thread has been hijacked by
    semantics, symbolism and people's personal feelings about the institution of marriage.
    Let's try to help Dan redesign his guide rather than sniping at each other.\r\n\r\nFlowers,
    flowers, flowers. I think these books bear me out.\r\n\r\nSome links (the first
    one is particularly nice, not too pink or frilly but right on the money):\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Knot-Ultimate-Wedding-Planner-Frequently/dp/0767902475/sr=1-2/qid=1162231424/ref=sr_1_2/102-3713412-0612115?ie=UTF8&s=books\">The
    Knot Wedding Planner</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Style-Weddings-Editors-Magazine/dp/1932994726/sr=1-7/qid=1162230522/ref=sr_1_7/102-3713412-0612115?ie=UTF8&s=books\">In
    Style Weddings</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Emily-Posts-Wedding-Etiquette-5e/dp/0060745045/sr=1-8/qid=1162230522/ref=sr_1_8/102-3713412-0612115?ie=UTF8&s=books\">Emily
    Post</a>\r\n\r\nhttp://www.theknot.com/\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.marthastewartstore.com/detail.php?p=6789&pa=ang&gtse=goog&gtkw=martha%20stewart%20weddings\">Martha
    Stewart's wedding book</a>"
  created: '2006-10-30 17:51:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Patricia, good points.\r\n\r\nBTW, Dan, next time go for designing a <cite>honeymoon</cite>
    guide.\r\nNow THAT could be super romantic!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 17:59:46'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Two rings on ivory silk, few petals, very short depth of field maybe some
    vaseline on the lens (sunlight glinting off her father's shotgun:), swashed up
    script for the title all a bit clich\xE9 but not overboard (I hope) and no knotting
    or chaining implied.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-30 18:28:03'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "\"But I do think that you (singular):\r\n1) Often project your personal world
    too far outward.\r\n2) Are not handling criticism well enough.\"\r\n\r\nhrant,\r\nwhich
    other world shall I transport in my comments if its not mine?\r\nYou wrote 212(?)
    comments within the last 10 days. 20 a day. One an hour. To each and every written
    article here  and your are telling me, to project my personal world too far? You
    are joking.\r\n\r\nIts not on you to give me any critic.\r\nRemarks like\r\n\"Then
    you should point out that Israel\u2019s position\r\nthat \u201Cthe UN is there
    to stop Hzballa\u201D is hogwash.\"\r\nare more than dump. Stop this. And stop
    it now, alright?\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 19:08:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're doing the same projecting with Typophile. You can't control it/me
    like you control yourself. But I'm not after you or anything - not at all - so
    far I actually like you, mostly. Stop making it some sort of personal outrage.
    Or else... nothing! And that's the point.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 19:14:22'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "So, you, hrant, set the rulez for my comments in typophile? :-)\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 19:31:23'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I'm with Patty, again. Black can be a posh elegant color, but this is one
    of those instances where you don't want to say \"black tie,\" but do want to say
    \"romantic flowers.\" If you follow. \r\n\r\nBesides the fact that the black is
    making the ad bottom-heavy, the use of space has it looking like two different
    ads. You don't need to use pastel pink, there are plenty of other gorgeous colors
    that evoke sentimental and warm feelings. I did a wedding invitation for a friend
    using a sage green paper and dark warm silver ink.\r\n\r\nIMHO I think you need
    to use a script of some kind as well. You don't have to use something like Bickham,
    even though I do think it is gorgeous, you could use something like Dalliance
    which has small caps, script upright roman and then supplement that with  your
    Garamond.\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 19:48:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Georg:\r\nNo, the nature of this -heterogenous, abstract- medium does. I'm
    just the\r\none that ends up trying to explain it most often because I push it
    hardest.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 19:49:31'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "hrant,\r\nyou are a very senseless freak.\r\nAnd I am not in the mood to
    communicate any longer with you.\r\nI leave this forum. And you can continue your
    word bubbles.\r\n\r\nBye.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 20:00:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"That\u2019s why I\u2019m not married!\"\r\n\r\nFunniest comment of the
    day! :-D\r\nMy wife and I eloped for the same reason--we couldn't deal with the
    family committee debates over what seemed trivial to us.  We just wanted to be
    married, so we just did it! 37 years ago yesterday and still at it:-)\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-30 20:03:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Georg, please don't confuse me by using a smiley when you don't mean it.\r\n\r\n>
    I leave this forum.\r\n\r\nThat's a shame. I hope you change your mind. And please
    know that you\r\ndon't have to communicate with me (in either direction) to be
    here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/6268\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 20:09:38'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">Black can be a posh elegant color, but this is one of those instances where
    you don\u2019t want to say \u201Cblack tie,\u201D but do want to say \u201Cromantic
    flowers.\u201D\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.amazon.co.uk/Wedding-Bible-Sarah-Haywood/dp/0954712900/sr=8-1/qid=1162251297/ref=pd_ka_1/202-0929402-3063808?ie=UTF8&s=books\">So
    this is probably not a good design:)</a>\r\n\r\nIn fact it really couldn't be
    much further from ideal.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-30 23:42:54'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "hrant (and Dan): There are tonnes of stuff on Laura Mulvey on the internet.
    I'd say it's about the distinction between the active male and the passive female.
    When she refers to hollywood films (but obviously you can apply these theories
    to photography too, especially in publicity)in her view, woman is the object and
    man is the bearer of the look (the gaze is male). I think it's important stuff
    for graphic designers, it's not always enough to trust your personal taste, you
    should be able to see the hidden messages behind the image, brainstorming is no
    replacement for research. By the way Dan, have you defined your target audience
    as being female or are you looking for an image that will appeal to both men and
    women. What about age, is that defined?\r\nTim, what a weird background is that!
    It's not black is it? I can't see properly for some reason, there's some dark
    green stuff in it, or is it me?\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 23:46:38'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Tim, you know I'm going to say that cover breaks the rules. ehehe. It may
    be black, but that photo is moody and romantic, and the typography is not intruding
    on their space.
  created: '2006-10-30 23:55:57'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: The stuff about Laura Mulvey reminds me of a book and documentary by John
    Berger called "The Ways of Seeing." Very good reading if you're into the philosphical
    aspects of advertising and art, especially as it relates to women/man dichotomies.
    Only flaw is that it's set in 14 pt Helvetica Bold or something similar.
  created: '2006-10-31 04:06:00'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Patty said: <i>I don\u2019t think women need protecting.</i>\r\n\r\nWell
    of course we haven't since we could create fire and gather enough food to survive.
    \ ;-)  And that's what, um, 25,000 years ago?\r\n\r\nMy second ex-spouse, when
    asked if I was going to change my name, said, \"hell, no -- when a woman changes
    her name, it designates that she is property like a slave.\" One of the nicer
    things I can think to say about him....\r\n\r\nAnd yes, the hands are rather generic:
    that doesn't mean that the guy has to have hands like King Kong, but delicate
    with a manicure?  C'mon.....\r\n\r\nFrom a cold and snowy Calgary\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-10-31 04:10:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Only flaw is that it\u2019s set in 14 pt Helvetica Bold or something
    similar.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, it was published in 1972, so Univers (actually) was
    somewhat less stale than now. Also, the idea that the text could start on the
    cover and just keep going, interspersed with pictures, was pretty cool. If you
    want to break the rules, go all the way. "
  created: '2006-10-31 04:36:11'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I think we lost Dan days ago LOL.\r\n\r\nI'm sorry we seem to have lost Georg
    too.\r\n\r\n(Georg - if you're still reading - we've all (I think) had our run-ins
    with Hrant. Don't let him scare you off, please. I don't think that was his intent,
    and your voice is valuable here)"
  created: '2006-10-31 04:47:28'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Naw, I've been paying attention. That wedding guide went to print a long
    time before I posted it, but it always bothered me that I <cite>don't know why</cite>
    women didn't like it. Especially since I'd like to think of myself as a <cite>Ladies
    Man.</cite> Nyuck Nyuck Nyuck.\r\n\r\nI dug out the file to play around with,
    and it keeps on coming back to the same things. No matter what I try, it either
    looks incredibly cheesy (Like using Nuptual Script. Blah.) or too \"chunky\" like
    it's a   Union Man's wedding guide per Georg.\r\n\r\nI think classy display use,
    I think Bodoni Classico or something, but the vertical stress is far too mechanical.
    I tend to prefer Aldines or early Transitionals for classy text use, but again,
    too chunky for this use. (Although I just purchased Requiem. THAT is a fine looking
    specimen. The italic might have worked perfectly, but maybe still too sharp and
    masculine?)\r\n\r\nI tried a few scripts for the title, but it just ended up looking
    too cheesy. I have Dalliance, Ministry Script, and Affair on my own. At work we
    have the standards: Snell Roundhand, Shelley Volante, Signet Roundhand, a few
    more. None seem to capture that little something that I was going for, and they
    all annoy me more than Garamond.\r\n\r\nSo Garamond it stays for now.\r\n\r\nBut
    this I knew immediately after it published: I needed to somehow connect the upper
    half of the page with the bottom half like Miss Tiffany said, and I failed. If
    there is one thing about this page that bothers me, this is definitely it. I was
    focusing too much on the <cite>idea</cite> of the photo, and not on the photo
    itself and how it worked in that particular space.\r\n\r\n "
  children:
  - author:
      name: ycole
      picture: 111967
    body: why not use a super light san serif? some of the referred wedding books
      were set in that style and i think it works rather nicely and stays away from
      the cheeze.
    created: '2006-10-31 19:00:32'
  created: '2006-10-31 05:34:03'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Double post
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: 'maybe Dan, you''re not really a ladies man but you like to think you are
      ;) '
    created: '2006-11-11 15:54:26'
  created: '2006-10-31 05:34:16'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">that photo is moody and romantic\r\n\r\nMy impression was that it might
    be moody and romantic for a picture of lovers on the banks of the Seine, but not
    really for a wedding. But thinking further and a (minor) amount of investigation
    reveals that there are very few images in image libraries of convincing actual
    wedding scenes, obviously nobody* wants a private and important affair available
    for Tom, Dick and Harry to use and that might contribute to the more abstract
    conceptual images of marriage. Some time ago I did some work for a wedding planner
    and ended up having to use pictures of her wedding, a \"society\" affair.\r\n\r\nTim\r\n\r\n*except
    the nobodies more interested in promoting their vapid selves than making commitment."
  created: '2006-10-31 08:32:44'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> Flowers, flowers, flowers. I think these books bear me out.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.flowerdir.net/\">flowers</a>,
    <a href=\"http://www.flowerdir.net/\">flowers</a>, <a href=\"http://www.crAUSwords.com/flowers/WFlowers.htm\">flowers</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-31 12:45:34'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> My second ex-spouse, when asked if I was going to change my name, said,
    \u201Chell, no \u2014 when a woman changes her name, it designates that she is
    property like a slave.\u201D One of the nicer things I can think to say about
    him\u2026.\r\n\r\nMy 22nd ex-spouse, when asked if I was going to change my game,
    said, \u201Chell, no \u2014 when a man changes his game, it designates that he
    is properly like a beast.\u201D One of the nicer things I can think to say about
    her\u2026."
  created: '2006-10-31 13:15:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> so Univers (actually) was somewhat less stale\r\n\r\nBut you can't make
    readability with freshness.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-31 14:09:11'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>why not use a super light san serif?</cite>\r\nWhen I think of classy,
    I also think of Avenir Light. I can use that for just about anything and still
    feel like I accomplished something. \r\n\r\nI honestly don't know why I hadn't
    explored that option more. I think I dummied up a page, but that was before I
    chose that photo :("
  created: '2006-10-31 23:56:58'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Ligheter weights of Optima and Eras would have worked too, although one does
    see them a lot here.\r\n\r\n(Why isn't anyone making much fun of Friz Quadrata
    anymore?  It was ubiquitous for awhile, then disappeared, and now I'm seeing a
    resurgence?)\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-11-01 04:20:29'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Yup, thin/extra light weight is the way to go, like I said.\r\n\r\nBy to
    by, I'm seeing a Gill-sort-of-revival here in PDX, Linda. Joanna is cool again
    (though its italic is still shabby as ever).\r\n\r\nOh yeah, Friz Quadrata. Set
    'em high and kern 'em tight. They'll be your best friend."
  created: '2006-11-04 12:56:59'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "A ring with a flower like this Sunday New York Times Petal Puzzle will do
    wonders especially for Typophile couple.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/petal_3577.jpg]\r\nHappy
    Coupling with <a href=\"http://www.crAUSwords.com/flowers/WFlowers.htm\">Flowers</a>\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-04 13:16:15'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: 'its the woman who wants a BIG massive rock on her finger, not the guy!!!
    you''re suppose to have it the opposite and focus on the hands only not anything
    else so if she had nail varnish on, we all know its a womans hand right? and you
    see a guys hand, u usually have a waatch on right? its not appealing to me i must
    say coz it iS her day after all. you need to focus on the woman and she getting
    a ring on her finger and she is female therefore the type should reflect feminity
    (dont know if thats a word :D) but you get me right? so flowy, delicate type.
    what do you think? '
  created: '2006-11-04 13:38:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it iS her day after all\r\n\r\nThat's what <cite>I'm</cite> talkin'bout.
    \ :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: ok, hrant. take it easy. sorry for even saying what i said.
    created: '2006-11-11 13:53:14'
  created: '2006-11-04 14:42:32'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "It is her day. And her mother's. And HIS mother's. And his cousin's mother's.\r\n\r\nI'm
    so very afraid."
  created: '2006-11-04 19:59:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yes Dan, weddings are a REAL mother! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-04 21:06:42'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Hence the term \"matrimony\".\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2006-11-04 23:12:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "They forgot the \"e\" between the last two letters.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-04 23:41:23'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> It is her day. And her mother\u2019s. And HIS mother\u2019s. And his cousin\u2019s
    mother\u2019s.\r\n\r\nHow many Fingers and How many Rings for One Finger and One
    Exclusive Ring!"
  created: '2006-11-05 04:02:24'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Have you ever heard of Puzzle Rings? What is a Puzzle Ring?\r\nPuzzle Rings
    were the traditional wedding bands given to the wife during ancient times in the
    Middle East. Only the husband would know the solution to the puzzle guaranteeing
    the wife would not take off the ring. Samples <a href=\"http://www.cartouchesandmore.com/GoldPuzzleRings.html\">here</a>.\r\nInteresting?!\r\nHappy
    Shopping with <a href=\"http://www.crauswords.com/flowers/FL-smple.pdf\">Flowers</a>\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-05 05:25:33'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: I have a silver puzzle ring somewhere, and I even know how to solve it! I
    seem to remember that it was a souvenir brought to me by a friend.
  created: '2006-11-06 21:00:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Don't be sorry - I had fun!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-11 14:42:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Who is, and who doesn't?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-11 16:08:52'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: Confused? Who said what? and Who is who?
  created: '2006-11-12 05:05:22'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>maybe Dan, you\u2019re not really a ladies man but you like to think
    you are ;)</cite>\r\nWhat!?!? I am offended! How about dinner for two? :)\r\n\r\nYes,
    designing lumberjack ads would suit me just fine, but I'm just angry that I don't
    understand what it is that makes a thing <cite>feminine</cite>. Flowers and frilly
    crap and pink ribbons and rings and kittens don't neccesarily feminine make. There
    has to be some fundamental thing that is intrinsic, and THAT is what I am missing.
    If I could find the missing underlying principle, I should be able to make an
    ad for a Husqvarna chainsaw feminine.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/3120XPW_4242.gif]
    \r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: awwww, sorry Danny and i'd definately love dinner for 2 and 2 ONLY!  ;)
      and about your 'missing underlying principle' for the chain saw. i may just
      have the answer. PINK, the colour pink! yup, it'll catch thier attention alright.
      :D yeah, so where am i meeting you then? ;)
    created: '2006-11-15 00:09:27'
  created: '2006-11-13 08:20:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!\r\n\r\nIf you could make that feminine Dan, you would be one hell of
    a man :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-13 14:12:09'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Why would a chainsaw ad have to be \"feminine\" to appeal to women?  Heck,
    I make a beeline for the power tools department at Home Depot every time.  ;-)\r\n\r\nL."
  created: '2006-11-13 16:46:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Dan, once you pass this test, do you move on to the gay wedding planner?
  created: '2006-11-13 16:46:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And after that the bestial wedding planner:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/africa/4748292.stm\r\n\r\n(Of
    course Nick will interpret that as an anti-gay comment.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-13 16:55:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "OK Linda! :-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/B0007US79Y_3592.01._SS500_SCLZZZZZZZ_V1109163996_.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TooleTime_5615.jpg]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-13 17:12:22'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "ROFL!  In fact, yesterday, I was pointing out to my sweetie how really comfortable
    a small cordless drill was to hold, in hopes he gets the hint for Christmas....
    \ ;-)\r\n\r\n(Although I must admit, I have mad lust for a reciprocating saw as
    well!)"
  created: '2006-11-13 17:14:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Linda, you are such a cut-up :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-13 17:18:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I prefer acoustic tools.\r\nAnd apparently so does that blonde.\r\nChicks
    with sledgehammers is cool.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-13 17:19:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "She is sure to be a big hit with you too :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-13 17:32:07'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: 'I was more into sledgehammers when I was younger: these days, with limited
    hand strength, I ''d probably lose my grip and the darned thing would fly through
    the nearest window.  ;-)'
  created: '2006-11-13 17:36:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess that depends on how you feel about the person behind the nearest
    window :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-13 17:54:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Linda, I don't know if anybody has told you,\r\nbut sledgehammers are meant
    for demolition.  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-13 17:56:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>(Of course Nick will interpret that as an anti-gay comment.)</em>\r\n\r\nSeems
    to be more of an \"aren't I outspoken?!\" comment, or perhaps a Nick-goading comment."
  created: '2006-11-13 19:28:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, I just wanted to talk about bestiality.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-13 20:00:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.beastforum.com\">This</a> forum might be more appropriate
    than Typophile.\r\nGlad to help you on your way."
  created: '2006-11-13 20:19:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thanks!\r\nI'll start looking for a forum for whining about offenses by proxy.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-13 20:26:24'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Chris, don't we all know a few people who we'd like to knock that kind of
    sense into?\r\n\r\nAnd who, unfortunately, still wouldn't get it?\r\n\r\nL."
  created: '2006-11-13 21:32:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Linda, yes we do! (erupting into a chorus of \"Bang, Bang, Maxwell's Silver
    Hammer\" :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-13 22:10:57'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "It's the old signal-to-whinynamecallingnoise ratio -- when it gets too large,
    I can't be bothered.\r\n\r\nBesides, I've been spending my time lately working
    on my blog: today's \"big adventure\" was setting up the RSS feed.  Given I'm
    not the most bleeding techno-edge individual, I'm rather proud of having done
    it myself.  ;-)\r\n\r\nL.\r\n\r\nP.S.  Ski season's opened here with a swack of
    snow up in the mountains!"
  created: '2006-11-13 22:20:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "At the risk of being taken for a proxy whiner:\r\n\r\nToronto says <a href=\"http://www.idointoronto.com\">I
    do.</a>\r\n\r\nPerhaps femininity is not really what defines \"weddingish-ness\",
    so the look of <a href=\"http://www.gayweddings.com/archives/info\">gay wedding</a>
    sites such as this might provide a better answer.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-13 22:25:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Linda, I went to your site! I see you can drink no whine before its time:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-13 22:33:20'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "We started out as an email list in 1994: we done come a long way baby!\r\n\r\n(Now,
    if I can get the website updated, then life will be good....)"
  created: '2006-11-13 22:37:33'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: double post
  created: '2006-11-13 22:37:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the old signal-to-whinynamecallingnoise ratio</em>\r\n\r\nAs opposed
    to the old signal-to-patoneselfonthebacknoise ratio? :-)"
  created: '2006-11-13 22:53:58'
- author:
    name: miket
  body: Picture looks good but I think I would have gone with a guy putting the ring
    on the girl at the wedding, just my opinion other wise everything looks great
    colors, fonts, layout. I'm not sure if I could ever use a wedding planner with
    all the stress involved of making sure things are done how you want i don't think
    I could let someone put the wedding together if anything went wrong I can just
    see my self in marriage counseling real soon trying to explain what went wrong
    why and how i'd fix it.
  created: '2008-03-11 15:25:00'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Bump.\r\n\r\nIt was a resource guide to help people plan their own weddings.\r\n\r\nAnd
    this thread used to be 2 or 3 pages long. When did the Typophile boys change the
    amount of posts that forced a second page?"
  created: '2008-03-11 16:16:45'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Dan, I think it happened with the last upgrade.
  created: '2008-03-11 16:48:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I'd like to see the avatars stay the same as when the post was made.
  created: '2008-03-11 17:11:14'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "Dan, I've had this same scenario several times with a particular client.
    They're very democratic (in the worst way possible), and everyone gets a say.
    Invariably, the women line up on one side of the aisle, the men on the other.
    If one side likes it, the other doesn't.\r\n\r\nOf course, the strong opinions
    could have something to do with the topic of weddings. As most designers know,
    anything wedding-related is a nightmare project, and should be avoided at all
    costs, even if it's not directly connected to your family."
  created: '2008-03-12 08:59:20'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: Photoshop a giant wedding ring around the Space Needle! Or even better, Photoshop
    a tuxedo onto an outline of the state of Washington!
  created: '2008-03-12 09:12:26'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: The Bosch tools were turned pink and DIY women wanted to buy them but not
    all women are feminine enough to go buy pink frilly things. The script typeface
    works though. Flirty, flowing...just like women.
  created: '2008-03-14 13:04:41'
date: '2006-10-28 04:39:10'
node_type: forum
title: Not feminine enough?

---
