---
author:
  name: Reed Reibstein
  picture: 111393
body: "I've been thinking about buying a great sans-serif for use on all kinds of
  things for some time now, but I've only just gotten around to it. While I would
  be content with just about any well-designed sans, I've found while browsing that
  certain qualities stand out. Can anyone recommend sans-serifs that have a number
  of the following characteristics?\r\n\r\n<ul> <li>Generally geometric design (but
  preferably not overly geometric, so Futura's out); possibly almost Art Deco in flavor
  </li> <li>Some sharp points (I especially love an N with pointy ends) </li> <li>An
  italic that uses italic letterforms, not just sloped romans </li> <li> A decent,
  preferably wide, range of weights and widths </ul>\r\n\r\nIn my searches, I've found
  a number that could serve me well. The front-runners are Font Bureau's <a href=http://fontbureau.com/fonts/Agenda>Agenda</a>
  and <a href=http://fontbureau.com/fonts/Relay>Relay</a>, with <a href=http://houseind.com/index.php?page=showfont&id=18&subpage=viewfontspecimens>Neutraface</a>
  and <a href=http://fontbureau.com/fonts/Nobel>Nobel</a> close behind. I'm particularly
  enamored with Relay, as it has lots of weights, a real italic, and that smooth,
  Decoish character; it's taking some self-control not to just buy it now. I've also
  looked at <a href=http://www.linotype.com/90672/avenirnext-family.html>Avenir Next</a>,
  but it lacks a \"true\" italic, and Kabel, Erbar, and Metro, but all three are missing
  italics. One thing that would truly make my day would be to find a sans like the
  one I described, <em> plus </em> alternates for certain letters (which Neutraface
  and <a href=http://fontbureau.com/fonts/Anisette>Anisette</a> have). Thanks in advance
  for any help you can give."
comments:
- author:
    name: gudmund1
  body: "I'm really happy with the typefaces that <a href=\"http://www.foundrytypes.co.uk\">The
    Foundry</a> have to offer, all their faces have a good range of weights and are
    useful for most things from small print to large signage. Have a look at the Foundry
    Form Sans and Foundry Sterling fonts.\r\nLuc de Groot also has some superb sans-serifs
    available over at <a href=\"http://www.lucasfonts.com\">lucasfonts.com</a> with
    massive ranges of weights and very nice italics.\r\nThese are all quite good 'all-round'
    fonts, but judging from your selections above, perhaps it's more of a display
    font you are looking for?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: mondoB
    body: "Quote: I\u2019m really happy with the typefaces that The Foundry have to
      offer...\r\n\r\nI just looked at The Foundry website to see if they've come
      to their senses, and they haven't...Foundry offers lots of different weights
      all right, from three to six per family, but they show only ONE italic for ONE
      weight...what the F--??? It's bad enough all the families out there released
      without bold italic, but these guys are completely loco to provide only one
      italic for all those weights...or am I missing something?"
    created: '2006-11-03 06:43:32'
  created: '2006-10-29 01:48:31'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I'd go with Neutraface if you already like it. The only problem I've found
    is that the display versions are lacking a few of the alternates that appear in
    the book versions\u2013I've needed the dimension sign twice in the last month
    with Neutra display, and it ain't there!"
  created: '2006-10-29 04:10:33'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "Thanks for your suggestions, Gudmund. I took a look at The Foundry and de
    Groot's types. I like many of them (especially Foundry Form Sans), but they feel
    too \"new\" for what I'm looking for. Their humanism is probably what's not clicking;
    I think I'm latching on to a bit of an early 20th century vibe in what I want.\r\n\r\nI
    think you're right; I am looking for a display typeface, especially since I'm
    planning on finding a good serif for body copy later on. That said, I do want
    to have the <em> option </em> of using the sans for longer passages if I need
    to.\r\n\r\nJames, I may just go with Neutraface, especially since it does have
    the flexibility of being both display and text (luckily, I don't use the dimension
    sign all that much, but that is odd). Plus, it's designed by Christian Schwartz,
    just about my favorite designer. But it doesn't quite grab me like Relay does.
    Any other typefaces that I should consider?"
  created: '2006-10-29 04:26:31'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Have you considered <a href=\"http://www.typography.com/catalog/verlag/index.html\">Verlag</a>?
    It's inspired by the right time period, has italics, would work for display and
    text...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-29 07:12:37'
- author:
    name: Stefan H
    picture: 109742
  body: "Reed,\r\n\r\nSTALEMATE might be to small family-wise, and SOPHISTO might
    not fit into your design preference? All the same have a look for yourself;\r\n\r\nhttp://www.macrhino.com"
  created: '2006-10-29 08:32:45'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "Marc, I had seen Verlag, but tossed it away at first. Looking back, it is
    significantly more attractive than I had first thought. The caps, which I realized
    are what I'm most looking at in these faces, are especially up my alley. Unfortunately,
    the italics are sloped romans, and I've always preferred it when there is some
    differentiation more than the angle (as in Neutraface). But the wide range of
    weights and widths does definitely keep it a strong candidate ...\r\n\r\nStefan,
    both Stalemate and Sophisto are great looking, but they're both too modern in
    tone. On a complete aside, looking at macrhino.com, I was struck by Ommegaand.
    The fact that it's Dutch and combines straight and wedge serifs reminds me somewhat
    of Farnham, which I'm using in my newspaper's design. Do you have any more information
    on it, such as a firmer release date or what those 6 to 9 weights could be, that
    you could share?"
  created: '2006-10-29 14:05:42'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: You should also check out the <a href=http://www.ms-studio.com/FontSales/proximanova.html>Proxima
    Nova</a> series
  created: '2006-10-29 15:01:58'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "Thanks for the suggestion, Terry. I had seen Proxima Nova, but it's not quite
    the style I'd like. After seeing these fonts, I think I'd like something different
    from the very humanist (like Frutiger) and the Swiss neutral geometric, in which
    Proxima Nova seems to fit. So the R where the tail joins the stem without a crossbar
    (hope I got the terminology right), the A and N with sharp tops, a near-perfectly
    circular O, and a G without a bar in the counter appeal to me.\r\n\r\nI happened
    to find another one I like on my own (looking through the book <em> Contemporary
    Newspaper Design</em>). The <em>National Post</em> uses Jim Parkinson's <a href=http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/parkinson/richmond/>Richmond</a>,
    which has the sort of Deco/Johnston character I like. And its italic isn't just
    an oblique roman! Yay! In fact, seeing this face a while back might have started
    me on this very quest. So for me, the ones I'm seriously contemplating are Relay,
    Neutraface, and Richmond, with Verlag, Agenda, and Nobel close behind."
  created: '2006-10-29 18:16:26'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "Hey Stephan mate! I reckon that you have a pretty ace thing going here, when
    a bloke asks for a typeface you always blast right in there and kindly offer your
    fonts! It must be prtty hard yakka to take a break from the fonts and look for
    people asking. You must crack heaps of slaes!! Keep up the good work mate!\r\n\r\nMuzz"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Stefan H
      picture: 109742
    body: " Murray,\r\n\r\nI don't mean to irritate you at all. And yes it is nice
      to have Typophile around in order to spread the word for my typefaces along
      with other talented type designers who occasionally do the same. Sometime the
      requests are more generic and then it's easier to just ask people to have a
      look themselves. In this case I clearly indicated that both of my suggestions
      might be \"off the road\". Regarding sales I don't pick up tons of sales from
      these forums. But I do get some excellent new contacts with graphic designers
      around the world. Sometimes one thing leads to another. But I can tell you this
      10 years of hard work is finally paying back ;-)\r\n\r\nCheers"
    created: '2006-10-30 10:15:37'
  created: '2006-10-29 19:35:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Murray, that\u2019s quite an interesting, and observant comment for a new-comer.
    \r\n\r\nHow about Avenir?\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2006-10-29 19:57:29'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: Thanks, Simon, but Avenir is a bit tamer than I'd like, and it doesn't have
    "true" italic forms, just a sloped roman. But the range of weights is definitely
    appealing.
  created: '2006-10-29 20:17:33'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "Ive been lutking for ages Si mate! just never got round to signing up, too
    bloody lazy sometimes.\r\n\r\nMuzz\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-29 20:19:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What about Thesis? \r\n\r\nhttp://www.lucasfonts.com/lucasfnt/infos/infothesis_text.html\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-30 00:49:58'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "how bout you hire a type designer to do something custom?\r\n>^D"
  created: '2006-10-30 14:12:42'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: I wonder if Thomas Phinney's geometric sans is nearing completion.... It might
    be the very thing you need. Thomas, ETA? At least show us a teaser image.
  created: '2006-10-30 15:13:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thomas showed some of it in Boston during a workshop. As I recall, fulltime
    work plus baby does not equal \"spare time\" so Thomas may be burning too many
    candles.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-10-30 16:08:02'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "Stephan mate! It doesn;t irritate me! I really think it is a bloody ripper
    idea Because you get to speak straight to the bloke who wants to buy the fonts
    without any marketing bullshit!!!\r\n\r\nMuzz"
  created: '2006-10-30 22:41:14'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "I'm really overwhelmed by everyone's enthusiasm, especially since it got
    me my first post on the \"Hottest\" list on the main page! Thanks to everyone
    who's contributed to helping me find that perfect typeface.\r\n\r\nChris, thanks
    for your idea. I do like Thesis (I was considering it when I was looking for a
    comprehensive type system), but it's too modern, too much like Myriad, Meta, and
    others mentioned in this thread. But I'd love to get a new-feeling, humanist sans
    at some point to supplement my largely system fonts.\r\n\r\nPaul, sounds like
    a good idea; know anyone who will work for free? Otherwise, it's a bit out of
    my price range, but who knows? Maybe some day I'll get someone to make one for
    me (or even better, I'll do it myself). I can dream, can't I?\r\n\r\nNow you've
    intrigued me about Thomas Phinney's sans. While I wouldn't want to overwhelm him
    (as I look forward to his posts here and on his blog), I second Carl's motion
    to see a sample."
  created: '2006-10-31 03:03:12'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "Frutiger Next is loverly... Real italic...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fn_3485.png]"
  created: '2006-10-31 04:31:39'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "Eric, Frutiger Next is certainly delicious (I too am a sucker for a superb
    italic). Unfortunately, I find it too far on the \"humanist\" side of the coin
    for what I'm looking for here ... see <a href=http://fontbureau.com/fonts/Relay>Relay</a>,
    <a href=http://houseind.com/index.php?page=showfont&id=18&subpage=viewfonts>Neutraface</a>,
    and <a href=http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/parkinson/richmond/>Richmond</a> for
    examples of what makes me go weak in the knees.\r\n\r\nSorry for being so stubborn
    about choosing the \"Sans-Serif to Love.\" I really appreciate everyone's help,
    and I'm greatly enjoying taking a look at everything posted. I would just like
    to see if there's anything similar to the \"frontrunners\" I mentioned a few posts
    up still out there, waiting to be discovered."
  created: '2006-10-31 10:11:34'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "After seeing Eric's tasty embedded image, I thought I'd embed images of the
    strongest contenders for my heart. Stop me if I'm getting too mushy with the metaphorical
    language. I hope that posting these is okay to do. (Edit: in order, these are
    gifs of Relay, Neutraface Display Medium, and Richmond Bold from the previously
    mentioned websites.)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/relay_5047.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/getimage_4003.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f_richbld_4392.gif]"
  created: '2006-10-31 10:16:51'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "@Eric West\r\nFrutiger Next has real italics, but the charm that (original)
    Frutiger had is being killed. I mistrust the idea of \"next\" versions of typefaces
    generally, from an aesthetical point of view."
  created: '2006-10-31 13:20:10'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/device/regulator/\r\n\r\nMight be too much for
    extended use.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-31 14:50:55'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "We are finishing up a new geometric sans, but it will not be ready for a
    few more weeks. Its sort of a more contemporary version of the thing we did for
    Vanity Fair years ago.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2006-10-31 15:43:41'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "Thomas (poms), can I ask, just out of interest, what you see as the problems
    with Frutiger Next? When comparing them side by side, I don't see much difference
    (although there is some) in the roman, and the italic, I think is immeasurably
    improved. Are you objecting to the concept of a designer going back and reworking
    an earlier work (like the controversy with Star Wars and George Lucas' editing)?\r\n\r\nTim,
    Regulator is both a bit too quirky and a bit too geometric without being Decoism
    for me. It's moving too much toward Kabel for what I'd like, when I'd like something
    more reminiscent of Johnston (but more geometric than that).\r\n\r\nJames, I really
    like the samples on your site of the Vanity Fair sans, so maybe I'll wait and
    make my sans-serif a Holiday gift for myself. Do you have any more samples/information
    than what's on your website?\r\n\r\nIn other news, I found through a Typophile
    thread this great <a href=http://typographi.com/001063.php>post</a> on Typographica.
    It mentions a lot of the typefaces that have come up in this thread as possibilities.
    I know realize that I'm looking for a pre-war modernist sans. Does anyone have
    any more info on the Metro revival that the post says that Kobayashi is working
    on for Linotype?"
  created: '2006-10-31 17:01:06'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Frutiger Next's Italic is halfhearted. The original had an oblique. Some
    italic lowercase shapes were changed in the Next version, but not all, and the
    disparity, I think, is jarring. Look at a word like 'adamant' in one of the italics.
    But Reed isn't looking for humanism anyway. \r\n\r\nReed, you have proposed a
    very tall order; there are so few geometric sans designs with italics that aren't
    simply obliques. Richmond is less geometric, but has a deco flavor, and has a
    true italic; it might be your best bet. "
  created: '2006-10-31 17:10:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What about maybe something from the Process foundry?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-31 17:15:31'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "But our geometric will most likely have an oblique as an italic, (optically
    adjusted of course) I just think that geometrics need their obliques to look right.\r\n\r\njames"
  created: '2006-10-31 18:22:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey, multiple italics!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-31 18:27:39'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "FYI, Metro is available as:\r\n\r\nMetro Sans (with obliques) from FontHaus:\r\nhttp://www.fonthaus.com/products/fonts/view.cfm/sku/GT100124.cfm\r\n\r\nGeometric
    415 (with obliques) from Bitstream:\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/bitstream/geometric-415/"
  created: '2006-10-31 19:00:40'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "Carl, I do see what you mean about Frutiger Next's limited italic, but for
    me, a limited italic is better than a slanted roman. I guess I've always liked
    having two designs for the price of one, That's why I love Underware's Auto -
    more italics than you know what to do with!\r\n\r\nI realize that I'm asking for
    a very specific typeface. As I said, I found a number of good matches on my own,
    but I wanted to see if people who have been in the type game longer than I have
    knew of any other possibilities that I missed. Richmond is on my top two, along
    with Relay; I may have a tough time deciding between the two.\r\n\r\nJames, although
    my preference is for italic letterforms, I like the Vanity Fair sans enough that
    I'd be willing to see if the roman letterforms intrigue me enough to make me forget
    about the oblique. For me, I like when the italic is truly differentiated in text;
    an oblique just doesn't look striking enough for me.\r\n\r\nThanks for pointing
    me to those Metro samples, Marc. I had only seen it on Linotype and MyFonts, where
    it doesn't have the oblique roman, so these are definite improvements. It's now
    on my list, although it may not have enough of a Deco flavor to take the crown.
    I'd be interested to see if Akira Kobayashi does more than just expand the number
    of weights and widths; maybe he'll make italic letterforms as he did with Optima
    Next."
  created: '2006-10-31 22:05:24'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "If you want a subtle deco flavor:\r\n--Metro, which is authentic for the
    period but doesn't have enough weights\r\n--Verlag from Hoefler, which is way
    better than Neutraface\r\n--Gill Sans, of course, and... \r\n--Freight Sans from
    Joshua Darden, and John Sans from Storm Foundry, both derived from Gill Sans...excellent
    italics for both families"
  created: '2006-11-02 19:54:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Has Gotham been mentioned yet?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-02 20:23:49'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Metro does, sadly, lack the range of weights to which we have all become
    so accustomed.\r\nI have to disagree that Neutraface isn't as good as Verlag as
    they are two different typefaces. Neutraface is blacktie and Verlag is cashmere
    sweater. Both are gorgeous, but the appropriate time to use them is different.\r\n\r\nThe
    sad thing about this is one really can't get a feel for them until you try them
    out for oneself. I mean, I didn't really like the look of Relay until I put it
    into my own text and realized how well it works. Even if you compare the image
    posted above from Font Bureau's site to my humble specimen (ignore blatant typo
    please) you can see that Relay really is warm and not as cold as the specimen
    might lead you to believe.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/relayatworkfordwiggins_3528.png]"
  created: '2006-11-02 20:28:27'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"a limited italic is better than a slanted roman.\"\r\n\r\n!!!!\r\n\r\nReed,
    you do have other options, I'm sure you know? I would hope that if you are using
    a humanist sans you choose one with a completely realized italic and not a limited
    one. There are several, offering various degrees of differentiation from the upright.
    Bringhurst shows an interesting cascade of Sans italics, indicating the range
    of \"italicness\". Everything from pure sloped roman to completely different structure.
    \r\n\r\nReed, this might be a good time for you to bust out FontLab and try your
    hand at making the Geometric Sans Italic you want. That's why I made Mundo Sans;
    I couldn't find the typeface I wanted, so I made it. If there's a project you
    want it for, you could just make a few letters for it, and add to it over time.
    If typophiles clamor for it you can finish it and release it.  \r\n\r\nI must
    admit, I'm very intrigued to know what a true italic for a geometric sans would
    look like. Maybe I'll get my sketchbook out at break time. "
  created: '2006-11-02 22:44:21'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "Has Typophile been down? I couldn't get on all yesterday. I felt lost without
    seeing new posts on this and other threads.\r\n\r\nJohn (mondoB), thanks very
    much for your picks. You're right about Metro - too few weights for me. I actually
    prefer Neutraface over Verlag because Neutraface has a more differentiated italic,
    is designed by Christian Schwartz (although I love H&FJ nearly as much), and Verlag
    just has this slightly more sterile feel (perhaps owing only a little to the typeface
    and more to my knowledge of its origins for the Guggenheim). Gill Sans, Freight
    Sans, and John Sans, though all great faces (I especially love John Sans' concept
    of being Baskerville minus serifs), aren't quite Deco enough for me, the same
    way that Johnston and Nobel aren't, on further reflection.\r\n\r\nGotham hasn't
    been mentioned, Chris, but in looking at it, it doesn't grab me like some others.
    I want to say it feels <em> too </em> geometric, maybe too workmanlike, but it's
    more of a gut reaction. And, like many sans-serifs, its italic is an oblique roman,
    which I'll use if I love the roman, but would prefer not to.\r\n\r\nTiffany, thanks
    a ton for your sample! For me, it's pretty much down to Relay, Richmond, and Neutraface,
    with Relay edging ahead. Actually, I never found the Font Bureau specimen to be
    that cold - I kind of like Relay and other similar faces' quality of being somewhat
    stark and machined - that's why I like those pointy A's and N's! I'm glad to see,
    from quickly glancing at your specimen, that what makes it interesting in large
    sizes doesn't distract as text, which was one of my concerns (since it lacks Neutraface's
    text and display fonts). Did you use the compressed version for this sample? Anyhow,
    I'm very happy to see that you consider it a worthwhile text face as well as display."
  created: '2006-11-02 22:59:17'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I used all four variants: Compressed (top para), Condensed (bottom left),
    Regular (bottom middle), Wide (bottom right). It did surprise me how well it worked
    as text. I was expecting it to be all sparkle, but like I said, it is pretty warm.'
  created: '2006-11-03 00:19:25'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "Replying to Carl (didn't see your post before now).\r\n\r\nOh, I'd love to
    bust out FontLab and make it myself, but three things stand in my way: 1) not
    having it (and having already had the demo for the 30 days), 2) not having used
    it before (though I may buy Leslie Cabarga's book later this year to try my hand
    at designing my newspaper's nameplate), and 3) living the busy life of a student.
    That said, later in the school year, when I have more free time, I might try my
    hand at putting my anchor points where my mouth is.\r\n\r\nI actually don't want
    it for any specific purpose; I just want a really great-looking typeface to use,
    and I love that Deco flavor.\r\n\r\nThe posts expressing interest/mild disdain
    for my dislike of slanted romans as italics come as a bit of a surprise to me.
    I use Myriad Pro, with its rather italic italics, all the time, and after seeing
    Relay's italic a and g, I thought that typefaces like this would be the norm.
    Looking back at Relay and Richmond, their \"italic\" italics are actually evident
    in just a few key characters, so maybe I overstated my love for them just a bit.
    Neutraface's may be the missing link; it has by far the most divergent letterforms.
    As I mentioned previously, I like a clear differentation between roman and italic
    for combined use in text; I also can never get the taste of MS Word's horribly
    skewed false italics out of my mouth after using it unwittingly for years.\r\n\r\nI'm
    glad that I was able to suggest something interesting to get you thinking. Maybe
    if I have a few minutes I might try some sketching too. But I'm afraid of what
    my pencil will produce.\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>Tangentially related to this discussion
    of italics:</em> without getting this thread sidetracked, as I'd still like to
    know if there's anything else out there I'm missing (though that doesn't seem
    likely at this point), I've found two really interesting and unconventional uses
    of italics in typefaces. One is <a href=http://www.typography.net/type/aspect.htm>Aspect</a>,
    which I think is well known around these parts. Pampatype's <a href=http://www.pampatype.com/html/tipografia_caracteres_rayuela_reg_home.html>Rayuela</a>
    seems less known, but equally intriguing. The roman has this remarkable ability
    to be legible and upright and yet feel wonderfully italic - did I mention I love
    using italics for running text? And its italic is loads of fun too - I especially
    love the alternate o and s's - check them out in the <a href=http://www.myfonts.com/HelpImages/Rayuela.pdf>PDF</a>.
    Just wanted to put Rayuela out there - I might get that after the geometric sans
    if my funds haven't dried up."
  created: '2006-11-03 01:57:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good slanted-romans <cite>rule</cite>. Especially when they have serifs.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-03 02:23:22'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: Hrant, do you happen to have any examples of good slanted romans? Maybe once
    I take a look at some, I'll finally see the light.
  created: '2006-11-03 02:33:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good ones are rare. But they were actually made now and again between the
    last quarter of the 19th century and the first of the 20th, especially in France
    and Germany.\r\n\r\nHere's a slanted-Roman of my making, called Harrier:\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/nour&patria/dev/nour-latin.gif\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-03 03:08:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Harrier is remarkably good from what the GIF shows. Hopefully more will come
    of it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-04 01:26:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thanks. I've sold a small number - as a component of Nour&Patria though,
    not by itself. I'd love to see a whole book set in it, and I think it just might
    be shockingly readable.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-04 01:45:14'
date: '2006-10-29 01:07:50'
node_type: forum
title: Looking for a Sans-Serif to Love

---
