---
author:
  name: missgiggles
  picture: 111889
body: what do you think? i have used helvitica neue in a pice of work in a logo and
  used century gothic too. is  that wrong?
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "A kid like you shouldn't use those old faces.\r\nThey are like stale old
    food that has lost all its nutrition.\r\nIt's like dressing up in your grandma's
    clothes.\r\nIt's like riding a horse to the supermarket.\r\nThe more you use those
    faces, the more your brain will turn to mush."
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: "http://typophile.com/node/28755\r\nok, so this looks old too then? why
      is this not coverted to a link? hmmmm, makes me wonder."
    created: '2006-10-29 22:19:37'
  created: '2006-10-29 21:24:06'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "In German there is this nice expression, which sort of translates into \"the
    answer is right in the middle of the question.\" In other words, of course it
    is OK to mix fonts in a logo\u2026 as long as it looks right!"
  created: '2006-10-29 21:26:14'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: Old faces aren't inherrently bad, the challenge lies in using them in a way
    that looks fresh. Many a good tune played on an old fiddle...
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: "so does this logo of mine look bad too then? http://typophile.com/node/28755\r\ngo
      all the way down and see if it looks old. i thought it looked fresh but im having
      doubts now :D"
    created: '2006-10-29 22:01:11'
  created: '2006-10-29 21:39:24'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: You might want to check out the books by Yasaburo Kuwayama & Kashiwa Shobo.
  created: '2006-10-29 22:08:27'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Generally IMHO it's not a great idea to mix two sans serifs unless they're
    really different from each other. Better to find one font that works for all your
    purposes. However a sans and a serif, or a sans and a script, or a display those
    could all work.\r\n\r\nBut why be shy - why not post the logo and we'll be better
    able to answer your question."
  created: '2006-10-30 04:59:41'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>In German there is this nice expression, which sort of translates into
    \u201Cthe answer is right in the middle of the question.\u201D</cite>\r\nCan you
    post it in German? I like to take tasty little phrases like that and print them
    out for my wall for inspiration. "
  created: '2006-10-30 06:18:48'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "\"In German there is this nice expression, which sort of translates into
    \u201Cthe answer is right in the middle of the question.\u201D\r\n\r\nIts not
    possible to translate it word by word.\r\nWhat Dan means (and he's right, that's
    what we say in Germany):\r\n\r\n\"Der kl\xFCgste Weg ist der Goldene Mittelweg.\"\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-30 06:59:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Many a good tune played on an old fiddle\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nRight, but
    if you're getting an education it might be a good idea to work with some present
    day instruments. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: mb
    body: "<em>Right, but if you\u2019re getting an education it might be a good idea
      to work with some present day instruments.</em>\r\n\r\ntrue, but not everyone
      has access to new fonts, which is probably why there are so many requests for
      free font sites. some of the big collections (adobe, fontshop...) are quite
      easy to come by, but newer faces from smaller foundries are just too expensive."
    children:
    - author:
        name: missgiggles
        picture: 111889
      body: i agree with mb. too expensive for people like me who are students. we
        are in debt at this moment in time.
      created: '2006-10-30 18:57:16'
    - author:
        name: blank
      body: "<cite>some of the big collections (adobe, fontshop\u2026) are quite easy
        to come by, but newer faces from smaller foundries are just too expensive.</cite>\r\n\r\nNot
        only are they easy to come by, but Adobe actually sells a <a href=\"http://www.academicsuperstore.com/market/marketdisp.html?PartNo=606289\">huge
        collection of fonts to students for $100</a> something I have yet to see any
        other foundries do. I think that the various small/indy foundries out there
        would be doing themselves a huge favor by getting together and releasing a
        large low-cost student package so that more designers come out of school with
        a knowledge of contemporary fonts that weren't designed by Twombly, Warnock,
        or anybody at House Industries.\r\n\r\nI've also experienced design teachers
        limiting students to the simpler, classic fonts just to keep them from spending
        too much time messing around with crazy fonts instead of just designing; this
        semester I'm in a type class with an instructor who handed us all a disc with
        twenty fonts on it, and that's what we have to work with all semester."
      created: '2006-10-30 19:18:47'
    created: '2006-10-30 16:49:41'
  created: '2006-10-30 16:05:44'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Georg, that isn't what I meant, even though you're expression is good advice,
    too.\r\n\r\nIt is exactly possible to translate what I was thinking about directly;
    I translated it directly from German into English myself ;-)\r\n\r\n<em>In der
    Frage liegt die Antwort.</em>\r\nLiterally, \"the answer lies in the question.\"\r\n\r\nBut
    \u201Cthe answer is right in the middle of the question\" sounds a bit more direct,
    at least in English. When I do translation work, I almost never translate the
    text directly. When you do that, you get German-sounding English. I knew a teacher
    once who would say, about bad translations, \"why do you translate such good German
    into such poor English?\"\r\n\r\nGeorg's advice, <em>\u201CDer kl\xFCgste Weg
    ist der Goldene Mittelweg,\u201D</em> translates to \"the best advice is the golden
    middle road.\" Very different from what I said, actually\u2026 I said that missgiggles's
    question had already been answered, namely by herself as she posed the question
    ;-)"
  created: '2006-10-30 16:27:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'I agree it is OK to mix fonts, even old ones, if you have developed an idea
    of what looks right. But I agree with nick that you may want to look past the
    ''classics''. Except for Univers which I harbour an unreasonable affection for.  '
  created: '2006-10-30 16:44:41'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I'd really like the see the logo in question before we continue the debate
    on classic/old fashioned fonts vs the new kids in town. We don't even know what
    this logo is for. Old fonts can still be put to very creative use.
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: "http://typophile.com/node/28755\r\nits the logo on this link."
    created: '2006-10-30 18:54:46'
  created: '2006-10-30 16:55:59'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://typophile.com/node/28755\r\n\r\nThe link didn't work properly above
    (twice) (hopefully this will).\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-10-30 17:05:59'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I'm with Patty and the others who have said the two sans' must compliment
    one another. Giggles, in the case of your logo, I think the two faces are not
    complimentary. It doesn't matter if they are old or new, as long as they are appropriate
    to the message concerned.
  created: '2006-10-30 19:25:12'
- author:
    name: jonsel
    picture: 111354
  body: Can we at least all agree that one should never use Century Gothic for anything?
  created: '2006-10-30 21:07:23'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Never say never. The second you do you might find yourself saying occasionally.
    ;^)
  created: '2006-10-30 21:10:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>i agree with mb. too expensive for people like me who are students. we
    are in debt at this moment in time.</em>\r\n\r\nCome on. You get all kinds of
    free fonts at school, and you can get free fonts from all over the place, and
    why not, gasp, actually spend some money on fonts -- surely you have bought software
    at some point in your education, why not fonts?\r\n\r\nAs for contemporary, many
    of the Adobe fonts that come with CS or the Adobe education pack that they probably
    have at your school have been freshly designed in the past 10 years, and don't
    date from c.1900 like Century and Helvetica. Why not do a little investigation
    of the fonts available to you and find out what their provenance is?"
  created: '2006-10-30 23:10:48'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: ">\u2026I\u2019ve also experienced design teachers limiting students to the
    simpler, classic fonts just to keep them from spending too much time messing around
    with crazy fonts instead of just designing;\u2026\r\n---\r\nFor a try-out, you
    can surely stronger your muscles in creating a logo with the help of helvetica,
    why not?! You can check the actual campaign of BMW for inspiration. \r\n\r\n\r\n>this
    semester I\u2019m in a type class with an instructor who handed us all a disc
    with twenty fonts on it, and that\u2019s what we have to work with all semester.\r\n---\r\nWhich
    twenty typefaces? I'm really interested!\r\nWhat kind of classical sans-serif
    you have in school? \r\nhelvetica (neue), univers, akzidenz grotesk, frutiger,
    avenir, futura, franklin gothic, trade gothic, gill sans, syntax, meta, today
    sans?"
  created: '2006-10-31 09:07:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Right.\r\nAnd restrict students to Illustrator 88 and Quark 2 as well --
    that will really force them to be resourceful with the traditional basics of design.
    In fact, for the whole Zen, why not go completely unplugged?"
  created: '2006-10-31 16:53:17'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Jonathan - I'm with you completely on Century Gothic, almost said the same
    thing.\r\n\r\nRight Nick, have them go back to cut and paste, rubylith, scotch
    rules, waxers and T-squares. That'll teach them.\r\n\r\nRe fonts tho, sometimes
    there is such a thing as too much choice. And an unfortunate tendency to try to
    solve a design problem by throwing another font at it rather than really figure
    out how to make it work in a simple and elegant fashion."
  created: '2006-10-31 17:04:12'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "My brother took a first year visual design course last semester. He was only
    allowed to use black ink, white paper, scissors, and a photocopier. \r\n\r\n -
    Lex"
  created: '2006-10-31 17:39:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>there is such a thing as too much choice.</em>\r\n\r\nI couldn't agree
    more. In fact I addressed this topic in 2001:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.shinntype.com/Assets/Depts/Essays/PerfcSet.pdf\">The
    Perfect Set</a> \r\n\r\nThat article is time and date specific, but I still believe
    that educators should provide students with a carefully chosen selection of key
    fonts, taken from a variety of commercial sources, especially local foundries.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-31 18:10:15'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Nick, yeah that is a little dated... Matrix??? LOL\r\nAlso it's a bit weighted
    in the masculine/tech direction for my taste. But I could easily come up with
    my own set of 22 fonts.\r\n\r\nIt's a good idea in principle, at least for students,
    to learn effective design with fewer tools. And by the same token I think their
    projects should have the same types of constraints that professional designers
    face. Too often I saw portfolios with flashy die cut/hand bound/5 different kinds
    of paper/metallic ink work that would never fly in the real world. Design is an
    applied art after all.\r\n\r\nI'm also a painter and I tend to buy a small number
    of pigments and mix my own colors rather than have 30 or so tubes lying around
    getting old."
  created: '2006-10-31 18:24:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>But I could easily come up with my own set of 22 fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nWell
    that's the idea. That was me walking my talk.\r\nIt wasn't easy to satisfy the
    criteria I began with, especially on  a budget.\r\nI think it would be a lot easier
    now, in some ways, because of OpenType.\r\nI should also point out that Licko,
    Twombly and Fullard, whose types I included, are female designers.\r\n\r\nYou're
    right, Matrix is dated. I'm sure your list wouldn't include anything 20 years
    old.\r\nBut seriously, it might be a good idea to teach the origins of digital
    culture -- and why not use Matrix? "
  created: '2006-10-31 18:54:55'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I just can't look at Matrix anymore.\r\n\r\nIt would be an interesting design
    course to have the students for one month design using only the 'antique' tools
    of the trade, i.e. cut and paste, then for a month use only the fonts you could
    get for the Mac c.1990 such as copperplate gothic and palatino. \r\n\r\nI do think
    you learned to design differently when mistakes were costly and resources limited.
    It made you think about what you were doing before you started rather than sitting
    at the computer and messing around until you get something you like. I'm glad
    I learned 'old school' and thrilled that I don't have to do that anymore.\r\n\r\nMy
    list would be more likely to include fonts 100 years old than 20 yrs old."
  created: '2006-10-31 19:08:53'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Matrix is dated, but I think it won't be us old fogies that will use it in
    a fresh way. We can't as it is stuck in an era for us and our own perceptions.
    \r\n\r\nI recently received a catalogue from <a href=\"http://www.zingermans.com/Index.pasp\">Zingerman's</a>
    which used Matrix for the body text and I have to admit it suited the project
    very nicely. I don't think I would have chosen the typeface if I'd been given
    the project, but honesty I think it really works with the illustrations and the
    other hand-lettering. \r\n\r\n(Warning: Don't visit the site if you have a paltry
    sandwich for lunch or if you like food at all. It is evil and tempting.)"
  created: '2006-10-31 19:35:19'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "Giggles: Build contrast. It's not that two sans are not allowed, but there
    needs to be enough difference and compatibility for the pairing to work.\r\n\r\nOn
    limiting choice of typography in class: I do advocate this, but there's a side
    to me that rebels against it. There was a recent debate (and vote) within our
    program on teaching all the basics using only one typeface. \r\n\r\nOut of all
    the typefaces named, two were the front runners: Adobe Garamond, and Univers.
    Univers won out and, frankly, I was a bit horrified. One of my assignments involve
    setting a short story, and I just couldn't bear the idea of extensive text setting
    in Univers. Nothing against Univers, but...\r\n\r\nI have since tried to find
    ways to restrict type usage to the two presecribed ones to teach certain core
    formal principles, and then with other projects, allow students to open up to
    the vast sea, but demanding coherent considered reasons for their choices.\r\n\r\nOne
    of the reasons why I ended up falling in love with typography as a student involved
    the seemingly endless permutations of letters. "
  created: '2006-10-31 20:00:15'
- author:
    name: ycole
    picture: 111967
  body: faces like helvetica are old but look at how far they've outlasted faces like
    matrix. that's the difference between high art and trend driven design. just an
    opinion.
  created: '2006-10-31 20:09:25'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I think you need a sans and a serif, you're absolutely right that sans aren't
    usually great for running text like a short story.
  created: '2006-10-31 21:27:16'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "@all\r\nwhat would be your \"ideal\" typefaces-set for grafic design students
    at the beginner level, if you were a teacher? Let it be just 10 typefaces."
  created: '2006-10-31 22:43:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: " <em>that\u2019s the difference between high art and trend driven design.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    the difference between a trendy 1950/60s re-hash of a well-established genre,
    made digitally ubiquitous by being bundled first with the Laserwriter and then
    with Internet Explorer, and an original design. Just reality."
  created: '2006-11-01 01:47:25'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Thomas - I suggest you start a new thread with your question. It would be
    interesting to see what 10 fonts people come up with. I'm too tired to think about
    it now.
  created: '2006-11-01 05:47:46'
- author:
    name: gene ullery-smith
  body: "Do any foundries sell fonts at a student price, as some software companies
    do?\r\n\r\nI think that would be a good thing. There are a lot of expectations
    put on design students these days. A simple limited palette is good for learning
    design principles. However, most employers don't look to recent graduates to be
    lead designers. They need work horses. That is, they want students that are proficient
    with many types of software. While in school i was proficient in. Quark, Freehand,
    Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, Pagemaker, Fontographer, Flash, Director, etc.
    Today, as a working designer, i have a more focused set of tools. But, as a student,
    i knew that i was graduating into a tough market. Anything I could put on my resume
    to make me attractive to that technophobic lead designer out there was a plus.And
    that strategy worked. Now i have that technophobic designers job and im scared
    of all the smart kids coming out of school :) But i digress--\r\n\r\nStudents
    are strapped for cash. For many it is a stretch to buy their first Mac. Purchasing
    many thousands of dollars of software and fonts just find out if one even wants
    to become a professional designer is a tough proposal. Most students steal software
    and fonts. Ill admit it - I did.  In fact, i stole a lot. And today i buy a lot
    of fonts and software. Its just the way it is. I respect companies who make tools
    available to students at a cut rate. In addition, i think it is a masterstroke
    of marketing. Apple made it easy for me as a student to buy a laptop - Now i'm
    hooked for life. They converted a PC nut. Macromedia (at the time) made freehand
    accessible to students at about a 50% discount. Quark on the other hand cost me
    a fortune. Or what seemed like a fortune at the time. I think it cost about 3000
    packages of Ramen noodles :)\r\n\r\nI started off stating that it would be good
    if fonts were sold at a cut rate to students. Now, after typing all this, im not
    so sure. Would that same marketing model that made a Mac user out of me work with
    fonts? Could it help foundries reach new customers? Build brand loyalty? Or would
    foundries just be giving their work away? Are any already exploring such options?
    Are fonts cheap enough already because of market forces that students should bite
    the bullet and starve for a week to try out a new font? Have I gone too far- should
    this be a new thread?"
  created: '2006-11-01 21:08:37'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Gene, actually <A HREF=\"http://typophile.com/node/29178\">here</A>'s the
    topic that would be relevant to you.\r\n\r\nMy opinion on that matter can also
    be found there. Alternatively, ask Chris Lozos if he wanted to share some of the
    'croaks' with you :)\r\n\r\nAbout mixing two sans, I would say that whatever will
    work best to get your message accross is the best option. Do have a reason for
    your type decision, though."
  created: '2006-11-03 08:06:49'
date: '2006-10-29 21:17:21'
title: should a logo have only have 1 typeface or is it ok to have 2 aslong as it
  looks right

---
