---
author:
  name: blank
body: "This is coming from something I brought up in another thread. I've noticed
  that students tend to use a lot of \"classic\" types from Adobe, and to some degree
  I think this might be because Adobe seems to be the only foundry with a low-cost
  collection of type for students. To me this seems pretty tragic, as it means some
  designers will leave school having never used a font Adobe isn't selling, and that
  means we'll keep seeing those fonts again and again, until we all die, especially
  from the designers who settle on a few faces early and never switch.\r\n\r\nAre
  there any such collections from other foundries? Have any of you thought about giving
  students a discount on your typefaces and decided against it? If so, why? If someone
  started a service that licensed fonts only for resale at a discount to students
  and educational institutions, would you be willing to sell your typefaces that way?"
comments:
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Linotype offers a 30% discount to students and educational institutions.\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/2158-16993/discount.html\r\n\r\nI
    believe that T26 does as well, but I can't find a link to back it up :("
  created: '2006-10-30 22:02:46'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: http://www.p22.com/ihof/discount.html
  created: '2006-10-30 22:13:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Adobe seems to be the only foundry with a low-cost collection of type
    for students. </em>\r\n\r\nAdobe has done a good job of marketing to students.\r\nSpecialist
    (\"independent\") foundries don't have the resources, or attach much priority,
    to doing that.\r\nHowever, I think that if you approach specialist foundries directly,
    you will find that many are very cooperative. I always give a student discount,
    when asked."
  created: '2006-10-30 22:45:52'
- author:
    name: Village
  body: Students may contact Village via vllg.com to discuss student licensing. Many
    of our foundries offer special rates for educators and educatees upon request.
  created: '2006-10-30 23:44:31'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "So far I've seen a lot of useful help for buying individual fonts, but what
    I'm really interested in is the possibility of creating some sort of indie font
    pack that could be licensed to a large number of students at a low per-student
    sale price. A book/eBook with a page for each font/foundry/designer could be included
    as well, so that students would be able to learn more about the fonts and gain
    an appreciation of all the little guys out there who do great fonts.\r\n\r\nDoes
    this seem like the kind of thing that type designers, design educators, and design
    students might actually be interested in? I realize that the logistics are nightmarish,
    but who knows, I may be able to start talking to some people and get something
    rolling..."
  created: '2006-10-31 00:38:32'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "i'd be interested in a package for sure. but it would have to be useful for
    \"serious\" design, i.e. not just funky display-faces. if we take vllg as an example,
    apex new/serif, flama, dolly - those are interesting and useful typefaces who
    could be used instead of \"the classics\" (not discrediting other vllg-fonts,
    a client bought galaxie polaris as corporate typeface, which is great).\r\n\r\nbut,
    and i think that will not be possible for most foundries, commercial use of such
    typefaces would have to be possible. i work freelance on the side and if i cant
    use these typefaces for jobs, its practicaly useless to me."
  created: '2006-10-31 00:49:50'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Be careful to not just say, \"Here's a bunch of cheap typefaces because you're
    a student. This should hold you over until you're making enough money to buy <cite>real</cite>
    fonts.\" That will make students want to don their eyepatches and set sail on
    the file sharing networks.\r\n\r\nIt would be a great idea if you were to make
    it an educational resource as well. Tell us <cite>why</cite> such-and-such is
    an appropriate alternative to xxx-Premier Pro. Unless we're <cite>in-the-know</cite>
    about why our new typefaces are equal or better than the others, we're less likely
    to use them over something that we know will work. I.E., get us a good grade.\r\n\r\nIt
    should also be an investment for the future. Good fonts for us as students to
    continue using as we progress, and just as important, a resource to teach students
    about font piracy, etc...\r\n\r\nGive students a good enough reason to want to
    <cite>buy</cite> fonts and we just might. "
  created: '2006-10-31 04:47:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "There are really no \u201CIndie packages\" for professionals? My guess is
    that such a package would be unattractive to pro's - unlike the Adobe Library
    (which is a must-have to get work done) professionals pick and choose indie fonts
    as needed. \r\n\r\nAlso I think a good Indie pack of say four hundred fonts, would
    probably be priced pretty high - $2K or $3K (representing a deep discount equivalent
    to $5 - $6 each) - say the students got a further 50% off that\u2019s still $1,000
    -  how many students would pay that?\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-31 05:02:52'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Not many.\r\n\r\nBut four hundred fonts? Do we need that many in one pack?
    All I want is this: A geometric sans, a humanist sans, a slab, a Modern, and a
    few choice oldstyle or transitional text faces, with plenty of weights and options
    like small caps.\r\n\r\nWhy not make multiple packages like this available, similar
    to the educational pack offered by Adobe? That way we don't break the bank, and
    we still have options on what to purchase now and in the future. \r\n\r\nA well
    rounded package at a decent price point is more attractive to a student than an
    all encompassing package that requires us to give up booze and babes for the schoolyear."
  created: '2006-10-31 05:19:29'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Thierry Blancpain:\r\n<cite>but, and i think that will not be possible for
    most foundries, commercial use of such typefaces would have to be possible. i
    work freelance on the side and if i cant use these typefaces for jobs, its practicaly
    useless to me.</cite>\r\n\r\nEhem, you are not allowed to use educational versions
    of software this way either ...\r\n\r\njpad:\r\n<cite>but what I\u2019m really
    interested in is the possibility of creating some sort of indie font pack that
    could be licensed to a large number of students at a low per-student sale price.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    would be requiring more rights than allowed even by average EULAs at normal license
    fee. (But then, even now fonts installed on university computers often make some
    magical jumps onto students' computers, whatever the trick may be.)\r\n\r\n<cite>A
    book/eBook with a page for each font/foundry/designer could be included as well,
    so that students would be able to learn more about the fonts and gain an appreciation
    of all the little guys out there who do great fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis would
    be the job of your typography teachers, or at least could be part of the typography
    class (and often is): Each student does some research about individual typefaces
    and prepares a little presentation for the class.&nbsp;&nbsp;:)\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2006-10-31 06:35:07'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "EULAs don't mean squat to students. \r\n\r\nPeriod.\r\n\r\nFile-sharing has
    proven that beyond a doubt. The principle of the thing is great. The reality just
    isn't.\r\n\r\nA EULA can say whatever it wants. Reality has to step in at some
    point in the equation.\r\n\r\nThe ONLY way to get students to drop their hard
    earned money on something they could otherwise get for free is to add value to
    it. It's called value-added marketing, and even if that \"value\" is just a bit
    of educational wisdom that comes with a purchase it still has a higher chance
    of survival on the market than one without it. \r\n\r\nThat's one reason why I
    as a student haven't bought anything from Fontshop.com. They don't list any of
    the qualities, attributes, history, etc. about their fonts that might make me
    want to buy their product over another foundries. For instance, I only bought
    Bodoni Classico after reading the \"You Say Bodoni, I Say Bodoni...\" article
    by Dave Farey. That info is nowhere to be seen in FF land. And even if it is,
    then the user interface sucks and needs to get fixed anyway.\r\n\r\nInstead of
    worrying about semantics, foundries need to be focusing on the reality of trying
    to get a student to value his fonts over his beer. Is this package of nice, decent,
    useable fonts worth more to me this semester than wasting my money on booze or
    whatever? You'd better well convince me, cuz I'm getting thirsty and my broadband
    is calling out to me to download something."
  created: '2006-10-31 08:14:33'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: P22 has an educational pack that is available to university design labs,  but
    it is not marketed to students directly. We've been thinking of updating it to
    be more versatile, but haven't quite got around to it yet...
  created: '2006-10-31 14:13:06'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">The ONLY way to get students to drop their hard earned money on something
    they could otherwise get for free is to add value to it. \r\n\r\n>EULAs don\u2019t
    mean squat to students. \r\n\r\nSo you'll sell one copy and that would be shared
    amongst all the students - hardly seems worth the effort."
  created: '2006-10-31 15:16:05'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>There are really no \u201CIndie packages\u201D for professionals?</cite>\r\nI
    don't think that anyone has said that. Only that there is no low-cost indie pack
    for students.\r\n\r\n<cite>Also I think a good Indie pack of say four hundred
    fonts, would probably be priced pretty high...how many students would pay that?</cite>\r\n\r\nMy
    thoughts are more that the price would be much lower, in the $100-$200 range,
    with maybe 100 fonts\u2013Adobe fluffs up their numbers by including fonts that
    are already part of Mac OS and the CS suite so 400 number is not a target worth
    shooting for\u2013and hoping to make up the minuscule margin by selling direct
    and in large volumes. There's also the simple promotional aspect that a foundry
    gets by having design students working with its fonts as opposed to the usual
    Helvetica, Univers, Garamond, Caslon, etc. that make up a lot of what I see in
    design school. \r\n\r\n<cite>This would be the job of your typography teachers,
    or at least could be part of the typography class...</cite>\r\n\r\nThey can only
    do so much. And at a small school like mine, that's only twelve faces getting
    covered in a semester, many of which will be the old standards. \r\n\r\n<cite>EULAs
    don\u2019t mean squat to students... File-sharing has proven that beyond a doubt...The
    ONLY way to get students to drop their hard earned money on something they could
    otherwise get for free is to add value...</cite>\r\n\r\nThe value here would be
    getting a sensible collection with useful documentation along with the time saved
    by not scrounging through every font collection floating around the net for indie
    fonts. If I had the option of getting one good package at a good price\u2013And
    no, I don't think Adobe's package is worth buying\u2013I might be likely to stop
    storing 50,000+ fonts on my iPod and another 5,000 on my laptop. \r\n\r\n<cite>P22
    has an educational pack that is available to university design labs, but it is
    not marketed to students directly.</cite>\r\n\r\nDo many students even work in
    school labs anymore? Here at the Corcoran design students are requited have Powerbooks
    and the CS2 suite, and what computers the school has are mostly for high-end 3D
    or video, and thus have no fonts that didn't ship with the CS2 suite. "
  created: '2006-10-31 15:29:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I don\u2019t think that anyone has said that. Only that there is no low-cost
    indie pack for students.\r\n\r\nSorry you missed my point - you asked \"Are there
    indie font collections for students? If not, why?\" \r\n\r\nMy answer is, no.
    Why? because there are no indie font collections for anyone."
  created: '2006-10-31 15:34:47'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "Karsten Luecke: \xABEhem, you are not allowed to use educational versions
    of software this way either \u2026\xBB\r\nas far as i know, this part changed
    this year for germany, austria and switzerland - so with anything bought this
    year, you're right, yes. my knowledge is that before, it was legaly to do so.\r\n\r\nsii,
    i think everybody understands the small foundries fear of having their fonts spread
    over p2p-networks. BUT, fact is, they already are! you can get pretty much ANYTHING,
    even rare typefaces like didot elder. so its not a question of IF they are there,
    its a question of \"are there alternatives for students\" who are also possible
    future customers of indie foundries. of course there's the typical \"use system
    fonts or buy one font per month, because you cant afford more\", but we all know
    that the reality is different.\r\n\r\nin my opinion, underware is still a good
    example: if a foundry can achieve a good image with trendsetters, many people
    will follow. i have the sauna-book and im on their website every other week. likewise
    with ourtype, i attended a talk with fred smeijers and loved their sansa and their
    website.\r\n\r\nsome kind of \"indie font collection for students\" could have
    the same effect for the part-taking foundries. of course its a risk, but the reality
    right now is that students dont buy many fonts, they just download them. but as
    small foundries you have a way better image than adobe or linotype (\"the small
    guys\" and so on), and i actually think that small foundries could benefit from
    it."
  created: '2006-10-31 17:01:14'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Well, there are the <a href=\"http://www.p22.com/indiefonts/indieset.html\">Indie
    Font books</a> which come with a CD full of indie fonts.\r\n\r\nHmm. Dan, excuse
    me if I'm wrong, but the value-add when you use a specific font is the design
    itself. Isn't it? If a student is going to a file-sharing server looking for a
    specific font, this student was made aware of the font somewhere else. This student
    has already been marketed to and is now going about finding it to use it themselves.
    I'm sorry but you're going to have to do better than that. \r\n\r\nI was a student
    once, I remember how it was, you don't need to tell me. I couldn't even afford
    a computer of my own, let alone fonts. But students now are buying their own computers,
    and hopefully software. I always thought it would've been a good idea for the
    design schools to package a computer with software, including fonts from several
    foundries. "
  created: '2006-10-31 17:01:28'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "tiffany, at my school we can get a big software collection (including adobe
    CS2 and many other programs) for like 40$, but there are no fonts (other than
    the ones included in CS2) - the reason i heard was that its already way too complicated
    to get the legal stuff right, so adding fonts from multiple foundries would be
    way too complicated.\r\n\r\nthe package is only avaiable to mac-users for the
    same reason.."
  created: '2006-10-31 17:15:09'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Any foundry could offer a student discount without specifying which typefaces.
    Get 30% off when you buy 10 faces, or pick 10 (or 50) from this list, for one
    price, with proof of enrollment, or whatever. I very much agree there should be
    student prices for font software, just like there are for other graphic arts software.
    Every foundry has to decide what prices are appropriate, but it shouldn't present
    extra problems or dangers to offer this discount; the EULA is still the same,
    and the student has legit software. Worrying about whether that student will share
    it is a red herring. Students that pay for their own stuff are not the ones likely
    to share it. \r\n\r\nTiff, I would say Dan has a point with value added to fonts:
    specimens and information. We all need to look at what a typeface can do before
    we spend money on it. Whatever information is provided increases the possibility
    of a sale, right? Those specimens and samples are essential to combating the dull
    sameness of everyone using the same safe Adobe fonts until doomsday. Graphic designers
    in the US are a very conservative lot in my view, and only use type they've seen
    used a lot before. They obviously need information and examples to take away the
    fear of the new. "
  created: '2006-10-31 17:24:44'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Thierry,\r\n\r\nYes, the legal issues would be <strong>the</strong> reason
    it wouldn't work. Foundries will never agree on a EULA. But, they could create
    a student EULA similar to that found at Blambot. Their EULA for the downloadable
    fonts stipulates that they cannot be used for commercial projects. Yes, it is
    a good deal of trust on the part of Blambot, but I think they would've taken the
    fonts down by now had they thought it wasn't working. Sadly, I don't think this
    could work. No matter how much we wish for it."
  created: '2006-10-31 17:25:43'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>Students that pay for their own stuff are not the ones likely to share
    it.</cite>\r\n\r\nPrecisely! Honest, hardworking students are just that. Honest
    and hardworking. I say that foundries need to give us a reason to stay honest.
    Give us a reason to stay loyal and we'll continue that throughout our working
    careers.\r\n \r\nAnd I'm also kind of elitist about fonts as well. I WANT to have
    a font that you don't have. It makes me feel superior :) \r\n\r\n<cite>If a student
    is going to a file-sharing server looking for a specific font, this student was
    made aware of the font somewhere else.</cite>\r\n\r\nAre you aware of how fonts
    are distributed via the file sharing networks? Particularly the Bit Torrent networks?
    They're mostly distributed in bulk. You normally don't download JUST Garamond
    Pro. You download the <cite>entire</cite> Adobe library in one fell swoop.\r\n\r\nSo
    a student who does this has a grab-and-go mentality. They don't always even know
    what they are getting."
  created: '2006-10-31 20:16:01'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Dan, all:\r\n\r\nYes, I'm very aware of how the fonts are distributed. There
    is an entire new thread here which we could start. But it takes years of education
    and honesty to get a collector (student or otherwise) to do the right thing. It
    takes the teachers be responsible enough when they are teaching typography to
    spend a little time showing the students how to license type, how to read and
    understand a EULA. Then the student must adopt the right attitude. (This could
    easily be applied to a boss/employee scenario.) \r\n\r\nEveryone says we need
    more education, but no one listens when little bits of education are offered.
    Typophile is proof that there is education available. It is up to us, the typophiles,
    to take what we learn here and do our utmost to apply it to our daily lives.\r\n\r\nI
    think Thierry mentioned the EULA because of the same reason in regards to what
    he said to me.\r\n\r\nThe negative answer: But, honestly, if a student can't respect
    a EULA without having to be given a golden carrot too, then the chances are that
    student will never be a client to a foundry anyway. \r\n\r\nThe postivie answer:
    Many foundries know that marketing is important. For instance, Veer does a great
    job at appealing to designers, student and otherwise. Is that what you mean by
    marketing Dan? FontShop does marketing as well. They have their monthly newsletters
    with juicy information about a variety of topics and they usually include a free
    font to boot. The smaller foundries do what they can for marketing, but they can't
    afford to do it as big as Veer. That is expecting too much. At the end of the
    day the value comes from the font itself. I may love the Veer catalogues, but
    the catalogues aren't my tools, the fonts are. I need to know those fonts are
    technically sound as well as visually appealing.  I look to large and small foundries
    alike. I am sucked in by pretty marketing, all designers are, but it is the pretty
    typefaces that keep me interested. That doesn't take a lot of marketing. It just
    takes a decent site with a good type tester.\r\n\r\nDan, maybe I'm not following
    what you are meaning to say.\r\n\r\nSo, for instance, if FontShop started adding
    the history of the fonts on the preview pages you would consider that a value-add?
    I really want to understand."
  created: '2006-10-31 20:36:02'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Before anyone thinks  me unfair, I want to add:\r\n\r\nA huge problem, as
    I see it, is that students are very font saavy and aware of everything out there.
    It is a huge burden on them and it creates a desire to use these great fonts in
    their projects. But, the burden is never lifted by the teachers or those around
    them. So the students find themselves having to have the fonts. (I went through
    this myself.) \r\n\r\nI personally think that there <strong>should</strong>  be
    a solution to this problem. One obvious solution is that the teacher's alleviate
    some of this undo pressure by assigning the fonts to the students which they can
    choose from to solve the problem. Another solution is to have the department head
    approach a foundry and make a deal with them based on x-number of workstations.
    It has to be done at that personal of a level. I think."
  created: '2006-10-31 20:55:41'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Well, there are the Indie Font books which come with a CD full of indie
    fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nI was thinking about this too, but aren't most of the included
    types wild display types? I don't recall them being especially versatile, but
    it's been at least a year since I looked. \r\n\r\n<cite>But it takes years of
    education and honesty to get a collector (student or otherwise) to do the right
    thing.</cite>\r\n\r\nNot necessarily. I know plenty of professional designers
    with massive font collections which they treat sort of like specimen books; fire
    up the font management tool, see what a headline looks like in every font sold
    by Adobe, Bitstream, Linotype, Monotype, FontShop, House, etc. and then buy the
    one or two that they like. I'm not claiming this is right, just that collectors
    do buy type.\r\n\r\nThe point that several people have made is that getting foundries
    to agree on a EULA is the big issue I hadn't thought of, and you're all right,
    in many cases it would probably be a dealbreaker. Now I think it might be better
    to just set up a student-oriented type site, with links to the free font sections
    of the indie foundries out there, and weekly articles featuring specimens. The
    site could be supported with advertising, cost less to put together, and not be
    the logistical nightmare that trying to get a lot of indy foundries to agree on
    a package would be. I know a lot of these exist already in FAQ form on the major
    type/design forums, but doing something a little more substantial might work better."
  created: '2006-10-31 21:25:24'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Now I think it might be better to just set up a student-oriented type
    site, with links to the free font sections of the indie foundries out there...</em>\r\n\r\n[[faq_free]]\r\n\r\n<em>...and
    weekly articles featuring specimens.</em>\r\n\r\nsomething like <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/28820\">this</a>?"
  created: '2006-10-31 21:29:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Related thread...\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/17444 \r\n\r\nReposting
    my \"idea\" from that thread...\r\n\r\n<EM>Realizing that design students are
    the future customers of their work a consortium of leading, respected font makers
    has put together the \u201CEducational Font Program\u201D font rental service
    for college design departments worldwide. For a low annual fee subscribers get
    access to hundreds of high quality fonts for student and faculty use. A tiered
    program to fit any budget, fonts are provided in managed sets, including \u201Cclassic
    text faces\u201D, \u201CBest of the Bauhaus\u201D, and the ever popular \u201CTypophile
    Picks of 2003\u201D. \r\n\r\nEach font set includes best sellers from foundries
    like X, Y and Z. These are the full complete retail OpenType versions of the fonts
    in question, the only difference being that they include a unique serial number
    encoded within each font file and font name linking the font to an educational
    establishment. For example \u201CGill Sans\u201D would become \u201CGill Sans
    Ed4567\u201D, where 4567 is a unique identifier associated with the school. \r\n\r\nThe
    fonts are managed by a custom version of \u201CN\u201D, the leading font management
    utility. The utility includes advanced font auditing technology to help ensure
    that all fonts installed on the school\u2019s workstations are legally licensed.
    Using the tool administrators set parameters to allow or restrict additional font
    installation or purge unlicensed fonts. \r\n\r\nIn addition subscribers also receive
    access to printed and online material describing the art and science of font design
    and development, and for a small additional fee a real living breathing type designer
    will visit the school and give a lively presentation on type design to the staff
    and students.</EM>\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-31 21:33:48'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Off the top of my head...\r\n\r\nStudents will buy fonts, not just download
    them. The catch is, you have to compete with free, which is not impossible. Make
    a pretty box.  Include enough fonts to get a design student through 4 years. Make
    sure they are all 'high-tech' enough that it takes the students a few years to
    exploit all the OpenType nuances. Get it under a hundred dollars. Include a beautiful
    pdf with histories of the fonts and bio of the living, working designers. Include
    another pdf of the OT manual. Include an autoplay installer, and a specimen poster
    and printed book. Include bookmarks to the foundries' sites, as well as to a like-branded
    site that lets users get new styles every semester from a unique ID in the box
    (or DL package). USe the same ID to go to allow access to a 'typophile jr.'-like
    site where the students can get support from each other and the creating foundries
    and trade ideas on what the fonts can do. This also creates a great place to analyze
    what goes into the next rev.\r\n\r\n\r\nThe next step is get it into university
    bookstores, where they can pick it up and grab it. Give free copies out to facilty,
    and make sure it is quality enough for them to reccommend. Have it available to
    be purchased simultaneously online, and if possible, have a 4x more expensive
    version, for non-students to increase the perceived value.\r\n\r\nIf all of the
    above sounds like way too much work, it might be. The website sounds like a great
    place to start and to learn if the idea has momentum.\r\n\r\n\r\nKeep in mind
    one of the things that keeps some students from not paying for things that are
    downloadable is the image of moviemakers, software developers (Gates, Carmack,
    etc.) and musicians as insanely rich guys. It shouldnt be too hard to not put
    that across for Type Designers. Just not having the name 'Adobe' on it will probably
    help the humanity of the potential costomers kick in. \r\n\r\nWhen my own purchasable
    fonts come out soon, I am planning on having a student license available, which,
    unlike licenses, will not be transferrable. However, it will be viable for commercial
    work; my hope is that it will develop lifetime customers. Ask me in a year or
    two if it worked.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The
    Snark</a>"
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: exactly! tahst what i've always wanted Jr Typophile. for like minded student
      who are still in the process of doing their degree. thanks Choz. You said it!
      i always tend to use www.dafont.com
    created: '2006-11-05 15:16:59'
  created: '2006-11-03 00:39:24'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: Controversy aside, I found that contacting the foundry personally always helps.
  created: '2006-11-03 07:55:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">exactly! tahst what i\u2019ve always wanted Jr Typophile. \r\n\r\nI think
    that means we have a real student customer. Okay how much would you be willing
    to pay, 50, 100, 150 quid?  "
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: "yes Sii, i would be willing to pay but hey ho, i'd rather pay \xA350 than
      \xA3150 lol :D who wouldn't eh? :D"
    created: '2006-11-06 20:02:12'
  created: '2006-11-05 15:53:22'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I don't know how I feel about a lot of this. \r\n\r\nThe educator in me says
    that the student should be able to use a set of classic fonts that the school
    provides, and be encouraged to draw any idiosyncratic display they need as lettering.
    At Parsons, the students have access to a great selection of software and some
    very decent fonts on every university workstation.\r\n\r\nAs to students purchasing
    software (fonts included) I hear students talk all the time of going in halves
    or in threes to spread the cost out and then share the software. When I point
    out that is is not quite legal, they usually just giggle.\r\n\r\nI also have had
    more than one graduate student ask for free copy of ClearviewHwy for use on their
    thesis project, I comply but only after requiring a lot of documentation from
    them and their professors. They also must sign an education license, which has
    some fairly demanding terms in it. It is interesting how the interest in free
    fonts drops off once you ask for a little proof of commitment  from them and their
    supervising professors."
  created: '2006-11-05 22:29:45'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Okay, \xA350 - for how many fonts? \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: "hey Sii, here's the problem though.i dont know, as a student and not too
      experienced about buying and selling fonts and how much they SHOULD cost or
      how much you should pay for a certain font, its quality etc so here's where
      we students my get cheated. I might have to ask  my tutor about how many fonts
      would \xA350 worth should be for that answer or i could just be unreasonable
      and say loads of fonts :D "
    created: '2006-11-11 13:24:47'
  created: '2006-11-06 20:18:51'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'What I would be willing to pay would correlate directly with what fonts I''m
    getting. For a collection of 100 display fonts I might only pay $100, because
    I don''t use them very often anyway. But for a collection of ten good families
    and a handful of display types I could see spending $200. '
  created: '2006-11-06 22:34:00'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I don't see that as a student you need \"10 good families\". And I don't
    see how you are going to get them for $200. Maybe three good families for $200.
    (You only have a handful of portfolio pieces on your site. Is it lack of good
    families getting in your way?)\r\n\r\nGetting a student discount is one thing,
    getting all you can is another."
  children:
  - author:
      name: blank
    body: Ok, ten is probably pushing it. But on a student income (which was $200
      on last year's W-2) three for $200 is probably pushing it. How about five, but
      only one really big family and make the rest simpler ones?
    created: '2006-11-07 04:22:17'
  created: '2006-11-07 03:27:33'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Keep in mind there are display fonts which are quite verstile. I try to distinguish
    them from decorative fonts, like what I am usually into. If there is a need and
    enough demand, someone vendor will meet the price point. \r\n\r\nWith an income
    of $200 is one likely to think the best crack at the student market would be while
    they have school loans? So that means it needs to be considered textbook quality,
    so that it is justified to slip in while the student is buying $800 in text books
    and a $200 printer? If a teacher prescribes a font collection, the price is far
    less of an object, as it becomes a \"school thing\", not part of dorm-life starvation,
    for many of the more financially assisted ones. Of course, you'll have to then
    update the package annualy to prevent used sales from cutting in on your racket.\r\n\r\nSo,
    perhaps I should stick to one point, for now. How many faces and how many fonts
    does a design major need for a college education?\r\n\r\nHow many sans? How many
    serif? One solid representive from each era of type? One major superfamily*, to
    show the relationships of 50 various weights and cuts and their affect on design?
    \r\n\r\n*I think thats the current term for a family of families?\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-11-07 23:13:37'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Forgive me if I'm wrong, but if you're a typical graphic design student with
    a Mac and the Adobe Creative Suite and Microsoft Word, don't you already have
    quite a selection of fonts?\r\n\r\nExample: Helvetica Neue, Myriad & Minion Pros,
    a bunch of Monotype Gothics, Caslon, Jenson, Garamond (Maybe even Premier Pro),
    etc.\r\n\r\nWhat I would want, and what I would pay for, is a unique selection.
    A superfamily would be cool. So would a really unique multiple use text/display
    font. (Maybe something funky, yet useful, like Tribute from Emigre) \r\n\r\nThat's
    why an Indy Font selection would be desired anyways, right?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-08 01:12:16'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I tihnk a sample superfamily could be a really (fun) educational tool to
    justify the purchase, and sometihng that most students couldn't afford outside
    a 'special'\r\n\r\nI ithnk one of the things that jpad wanted was an escape from
    the barrage of word/adobe fonts. Or, at least, to plant fresher seeds in the students'
    minds. Tribute is a great example of a display font with a very broad potential.
    What I'd love to see is a disc that's well enough marketed to its target that
    the indies are trying to get on it. \r\n\r\nSo when's the release date, jpad?
    :)\r\n\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The
    Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-11-08 05:50:49'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Hmm, although I wouldn't exactly say that Tribute is a display face, it does
    have a wide range of usage. They're quite underused, too \u2013 so, indie, like
    you put it."
  created: '2006-11-09 03:15:54'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Forgive me if I\u2019m wrong, but if you\u2019re a typical graphic
    design student with a Mac and the Adobe Creative Suite and Microsoft Word, don\u2019t
    you already have quite a selection of fonts?</cite>\r\n\r\nYup. But beyond the
    CS fonts (no MS Office on my machines, and there never will be.) I'm still interested
    in licensing more stuff for school use, and I generally find indie fonts to be
    a lot more interesting than the typefaces from Adobe, which feel like a massive
    collection of book faces and workhorses. \r\n\r\n<cite>With an income of $200
    is one likely to think the best crack at the student market would be while they
    have school loans?</cite>\r\n\r\nProbably. I see a lot of senior design students
    prepare for graduation by buying Powermacs, piles of design books, and loads of
    fonts just because the student loan rates are so low right now. Anything I buy
    is coming from loan money (since scholarships don't nearly cover tuition) and
    this being my second time in school and my second career, I'm pretty anal about
    my spending at times.\r\n\r\n<cite>So, perhaps I should stick to one point, for
    now. How many faces and how many fonts does a design major need for a college
    education?</cite>\r\n\r\nThat depends on one's major, school, and professors.
    While I'm sure some schools are happy to leave students to the fundamentals, others
    are really trying to draw attention to their programs, and expect students to
    really push boundaries and do wild new stuff and want to see a lot of hot new
    type in use.\r\n\r\n<cite>I ithnk one of the things that jpad wanted was an escape
    from the barrage of word/adobe fonts. Or, at least, to plant fresher seeds in
    the students\u2019 minds.</cite>\r\n\r\nBingo. I've seen what availability did
    in terms of homogenizing web typography, and I often see students who don't pirate
    type fall into using the same Adobe fonts over and over. This concept came out
    of a couple recent discussions, and is in part a reaction to Lupton's free font
    manifesto, which I find interesting but reject because I find it to be anti-capitalist.\r\n\r\n<cite>So
    when\u2019s the release date, jpad? :)</cite>\r\n\r\nIt depends. I just changed
    my major to plain vanilla graphic design, which means that I'll have to take more
    classes than I was planning over the next year-and-a-half. I'll probably start
    a web site of useful resources for design students this winter and do a bigger
    relaunch next summer if it seems like something I can get capital for. I'll have
    to explore licensing a lot more before I try to put an actual together."
  created: '2006-11-09 21:33:24'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "As far as the licensing I think you will need to make \"your package only\"
    licenses that are consistent, then invite Indies that you want on board, selling
    the market to them as much as the other way around. If I paid money for a disc
    of fonts, and each had it's own terms, I'd be more than a little irked. On the
    other hand, I wouldn't mind if there were some editable fonts to learn from and
    build upon, like 'Lab's free font or that one from SIL. But I would expect consistency
    of product amongst any restricted ones, whatever that might be. I'd suggest talking
    to a very small number of those Indies you would want to include first, and draft
    a license for them, that they can collaborate on, then use that amongst the rest.\r\n\r\nNow,
    it's tangent time...\r\n\r\n<em>is in part a reaction to Lupton\u2019s free font
    manifesto, which I find interesting but reject because I find it to be anti-capitalist.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    neither reject, nor endorse. It still too early in the game for me to take a stand,
    and I imagine it won't matter either way. No matter what I or others here feel,
    that free (as in hippie) fonts will take the place of the commercial workhorses.
    These fonts take advantage of the legal ignorance of the creative factor if type
    design and its reflection in US (and hence, worldwide) intellectual property policy
    on fonts. Eventually, a lower priced product will win, all other qualities being
    equal, and plain-jane book fonts will become absolute commodities. It is just
    too hard to compete with free.\r\n\r\nThe inevitability comes from the fact that
    once one person does the work its there, forever, so free code only grows. It's
    okay, I suppose. The market will change afterwards and like how  Sun, Redhat and
    IBM have adapted to FOSS, we may adapt to FOSF? I sorta don't even mind (maybe),
    as part of it is retaliation by those who pushed copyright too far first.\r\n\r\nSpeaking
    of tangents and FOSS, I have to say, this Firefox 2 auto spell checking is quite
    nice.\r\n\r\n-Choz"
  created: '2006-11-10 00:00:20'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "The idea of what something should cost is endlessly debatable, and in the
    end comes down to the least someone will pay, and the least the owner will give
    it up for. But experience will help one understand the range of reasonable prices,
    and customers that end up thinking they paid too much will be angry and not repeat,
    so what a tutor or teacher feels is reasonable has some value, esp. before something
    goes to market.\r\n\r\nI think that what jpad is suggesting here is something
    very \"introductory priced\". So, compared to the market, whatever price it may
    be will be very aggressive (meaning relatively a bargain), to capture a new market.
    If this were to fly, it would be because indie foundries are creating \"loss leaders\"
    to garner attention to their work.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-11-11 13:47:35'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>Yup. But beyond the CS fonts (no MS Office on my machines, and there
    never will be.) I\u2019m still interested in licensing more stuff for school use,
    and I generally find indie fonts to be a lot more interesting than the typefaces
    from Adobe, which feel like a massive collection of book faces and workhorses.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    agree completely. After posting my earlier comment, I emptied out Font Explorer
    and loaded only the available system/MS/Adobe fonts. Boy, is that depressing.
    There are a ton of classic workhorse fonts. And a ton of clich\xE9d fonts. And
    maybe two that are actually interesting enough to use. (99% are missing small
    caps, which are my favorite parts. Shame.)\r\n\r\nJust enough typefaces to learn
    about type, and just enough typefaces to be bored to tears. Don't get me wrong,
    I love Jenson and Garamond (with their small caps), but Modern #20, Copperplate
    Bold, and Gill Sans aren't cutting it for me. \r\n\r\nGimme Indie!"
  created: '2006-11-12 01:57:17'
date: '2006-10-30 21:51:15'
node_type: forum
title: Are there indie font collections for students? If not, why?

---
