---
author:
  name: Gus Winterbottom
body: "This blogger (http://scobleizer.com/2006/08/17/linux-achilles-heel-fonts/)
  says that what keeps him from using Linux is \"readability, fonts, and aesthetics.\"
  That is, he won't use Linux because the fonts are so bad. He goes on to say that
  Microsoft and Apple are winning the operating system wars because type designers
  (he specifically mentions Matthew Carter) don't work for free.\r\n\r\nThen, a columnist
  at ZDNet picked up on this topic (http://blogs.zdnet.com/hardware/?p=70). He says
  that Windows fonts are better than Mac fonts are better than Linux fonts are better
  than personal electronics fonts (cell phones, MP3 players, etc.), and that Linux
  could pick up users by improving its fonts. He says readability and quality fonts
  are important to users who spend a lot of time on their computers, and that \"bigger,
  clearer icons and better fonts\" are reason enough for him to upgrade to Windows
  Vista (I assume he means the Aero user interface).\r\n\r\nSo it looks like computer
  geeks sometimes notice fonts and think about readability (whatever that means to
  them), but does anybody here think fonts do or could influence the general user
  population in their choice of OS, or make them switch from one OS to another?"
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't think between Mac and Windows because they both have plenty of good
    fonts.  Linux users choose it for other reasons but it would not hirt for Linux
    to support Opentype fonts and get a better rendering technique.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-02 20:13:03'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: who <em>does</em> work for free? besides the independently wealthy philanthropist?
  created: '2006-11-02 20:18:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The ZDNet guy is right.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-02 20:37:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I think it comes down to more than money. I think the companies that do type
    best have small, centralized typography teams (or maybe just one well respected
    font-guru), that can set certain standards, pool resources and aid cross-group
    collaboration. \r\n\r\nEven if occasionally their advice is circumvented or ignored
    certain standards can be maintained, even when budget is tight. \r\n\r\nI could
    be wrong but I don\u2019t think Sony or Motorola have font teams, and I think
    that goes a long way to explain the quality of the type used on their products.
    \r\n\r\nEdit: I've said this before, but what Linux really needs is a font dictator,
    a NickNeg style figurehead who can lay down the law with respect to font and font
    rendering quality, and can put corporations, governments and other supporters
    through the mangle to extract funds to pay real type designers and engineers to
    do the hard work.  \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-02 20:44:57'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I used Linux for years before making the switch to OS X, and the fonts were
    fine. I think that for most users, the 100+ DPI fonts are fine, although if all
    those nerds coding Photoshop/Illustrator replacements don't get Opentype and anti-aliased
    rendering working well under X their efforts will be mostly wasted. \r\n\r\nThe
    real problem with Linux is that if you aren't a *nix programmer and you want to
    do more than surf the web and edit OpenOffice documents, the software available
    for Linux pretty much sucks. It also doesn't help that if you want to use Linux
    you eventually have to deal with Stallmanism and free software zealots. Some of
    those people are completely crazy\u2013which is why I personally ditched Linux
    for *BSD servers and Mac OS on the desktop.\r\n\r\nI still don't know what the
    Vista fonts look like, and since my Windows box has now been relegated to serving
    as nothing more than a standalone torrent client, I'll probably never see them.
    Somehow I doubt that I'm missing much; Microsoft's attempts to emulate Apple's
    eye candy have always been pretty ham-handed.  "
  created: '2006-11-02 21:09:59'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Apple\u2019s eye candy\r\n\r\nWith the exception of Zapfino, I think Apple
    has always had a great track-record of providing high-quality work-horse fonts,
    starting with the original custom work and more recently the licensed fonts. To
    claim these are 'eye candy' seems out of order - especially strange to make this
    claim on typophile rather than a Linux fan-boy site.\r\n\r\n>I still don\u2019t
    know what the Vista fonts look like, ... Somehow I doubt that I\u2019m missing
    much; \r\n\r\nA strange comment for someone who specifies \"Verdana, Arial...\"
    on thier Web site ;-)"
  created: '2006-11-02 21:25:18'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: haha Apple ripped off Comic Sans.. like nails scrapping on a Chalkboard.  No
    one ever say's who the twat that made it is.. and it's an unhinted bit of shite.
  created: '2006-11-02 21:58:40'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Mac OS does not use hints - so why bother hinting the font? My understanding
    is that the 'no hints' policy was an aesthetic decision - all fonts look equally
    good/bad when blurry - with the side-effect of reduced font development costs.
    \r\n\r\nDespite the development savings, I think this displeased some of the font
    people who saw TrueType hinting as an Apple invention that was still relevant
    to on-screen legibility. Cheaper & faster is not always better :-( "
  created: '2006-11-02 22:22:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> font dictator\r\n\r\nMy kinda thought. Despotype. Huh, cool name for a
    foundry.\r\n\r\n> I used Linux for years before making the switch to OS X\r\n\r\nWell,
    that's because moving to OSX you never\r\nrealized how good onscreen text can
    actually be.  :-/\r\n\r\nWhen it comes to fonts at least Apple has nothing worth
    emulating these days.\r\n\r\n> all fonts look equally good/bad when blurry - with\r\n>
    the side-effect of reduced font development costs.\r\n\r\nBingo.\r\nWith the de
    rigeur \"blurry is good for you\" evangelism.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-02 22:42:19'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: "It seems to me that there are two separate issues here. The first is improving
    the font rendering system in various distributions of Linux, Gnome, KDE, etc.
    Fixing this needs the attention of one or more Linux developers with font expertise.
    I could speculate on why this has been a low- or non-priority, but I really don't
    know. Fonts are certainly recognized as a problem in Linux -- just google \"linux
    fonts\".\r\n\r\n(Later edit: I am aware of things like Xft, FreeType, and FontConfig,
    but it's not clear that these solve the issue 100%. The problem relates to Apple
    patents on hinting and anti-aliasing, aka the \"byte code interpreter.\" Of course
    the BCI has been reverse engineered, but the result isn't legal in various countries.)\r\n\r\nThe
    second issue is whether the typographic community is comfortable making fonts
    available under the free/libre/open software concept (not to be confused with
    freeware/gratis). Since I enjoy having my head attached to my shoulders, I'm not
    going to pursue this issue any further, except to note that it has been discussed
    here to some extent:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/16620\r\nhttp://typophile.com/wiki/good_libre_fonts\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/571\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/8407\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/14914\r\n\r\nI
    also seem to recall an effort to start a typographic intellectual property commons
    (not SIL, I think) but I can't find a reference to it now when I need it."
  created: '2006-11-03 19:05:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dude, \"despotype\" gets zero hits on Google.\r\nSomebody's <cite>gotta</cite>
    start a new foundry with it, come on.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-03 19:36:25'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: "hrant, despotype is inspired. Despotype.com is available, too. Of course,
    it does lead to marketing slogans in very bad taste.\r\n\r\nThinking about Apple
    holding the patents on TrueType hinting but not using them, in conjunction with
    despotype, reminded me of Apple's 1984/Big Brother commercial. Which was ironic
    because it was IBM that had the cheap, open, uncontrolled system that anybody
    could build, while Apple had the expensive, closed system that they kept under
    iron control. Still do, too."
  created: '2006-11-03 21:37:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'I just replaced my old Sony monitor with a new Apple screen, so things have
    gone from fuzzy to sharp. The resolution is so fine and bright now that Apple''s
    blurry font rendering is not an issue. Especially as the screen has so much on
    it, and I''m much father away than when reading a book. Sure, it could be a tad
    sharper in theory, but the blurriness now is of the order of a little letterpress
    ink spread. '
  created: '2006-11-03 22:36:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Apple holding the patents on TrueType hinting but not using them\r\n\r\nsquatypatent.com\r\n\r\n>
    the blurriness now is of the order of a little letterpress ink spread.\r\n\r\nLet's
    not exagerate.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-03 23:04:44'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Bitstream came out with Vera:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.bitstream.com/font_rendering/products/dev_fonts/vera.html\r\n\r\nSo,
    at least one foundry decided to donate to the open source cause..."
  created: '2006-11-03 23:13:45'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>A strange comment for someone who specifies \u201CVerdana, Arial\u2026\u201D
    on thier Web site ;-)</cite>\r\n\r\nEven Microsoft gets something right now and
    then, and the hit the nail on the head with the web fonts. I've considered resetting
    the design with Myriad, but honestly, I think Verdana's pretty hard to beat for
    on-screen rendering."
  created: '2006-11-04 00:25:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">So, at least one foundry decided to donate to the open source cause\u2026\r\n\r\n(edit)
    er, no actually the fonts were licensed to GNOME\r\n\r\n>The second issue is whether
    the typographic community is comfortable making fonts available under the free/libre/open
    software concept\r\n \r\nSorry to beat a dead horse, but of course they'll be
    \"comfortable\" - providing only that the client (whether that be Microsoft, GNOME
    or whoever) pays for it."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Gus Winterbottom
    body: "> The second issue is whether the typographic community is comfortable
      making fonts available under the free/libre/open software concept\r\n\r\n>>
      Sorry to beat a dead horse, but of course they\u2019ll be \u201Ccomfortable\u201D
      - providing only that the client (whether that be Microsoft, GNOME or whoever)
      pays for it.\r\n\r\nsii, I was thinking more about the GPL and the requirement
      to make source code available and freely modifiable and extendable. Is anybody
      distributing their fonts under the GPL or copyleft? That's fundamentally different
      from giving fonts away as freeware (i.e., gratis), or donating them (that is,
      granting an unlimited perpetual license, with or without receiving a license
      fee) to LaTex or Gnome or whatever. Open/libre software, the GPL, and copyleft
      seem to me to be somewhat at odds with the strong intellectual property ethos
      I see in the font industry -- which I fully agree with, BTW."
    created: '2006-11-06 19:50:19'
  created: '2006-11-04 00:30:52'
- author:
    name: Scott Thatcher
    picture: 111324
  body: "I usually do more lurking around here than posting, but since this topic
    has come up, I have to ask this question: what do you think makes font display
    good or bad on a computer system?  I read stories like the blog linked above,
    and often there aren't enough specifics given beyond the statement that fonts
    are \"terrible\" on one system or another.\r\n\r\nIs it really that people just
    have different tastes?  For example, I find the antialiasing in Linux, even without
    support for the bytecode interpreter, to be much easier on my eyes than anything
    from a Windows box.  I don't like the non-anti-aliased look for some fonts that
    presumably have good hinting under Windows, and I don't like the various anti-aliasing
    options that are available under Windows. I haven't found a setting that doesn't
    make some parts of the stems of characters almost disappear entirely. That problem,
    to me, is much worse than anything I've seen in Linux. On the other hand, my experience
    with Linux is that the anti-aliasing produces (on the whole--there are some exceptions)
    very readable text that doesn't ever disappear from over-blurring.\r\n\r\nI found
    once an article with the opposite opinion, and it finally turned out that that
    author viewed any text that wasn't crisp black-on-white with no anti-aliasing
    as being unreadable.\r\n\r\nSo, to sum up, I'd be very interested in the precise
    details of font rendering that others feel makes or breaks a system. Is there
    any concensus, or is it really personal preference?\r\n\r\nScott Thatcher"
  created: '2006-11-04 21:02:27'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: This calls for side-by-side screen comparison, don't you think? Then we might
    be able to judge things objectively.
  created: '2006-11-05 05:34:53'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "As regards Mac OSX vs Windows vs Windows+ClearType, there were screenshots
    in an older thread.\r\n\r\nAs regards \"objectively\", well. [Comparing Simon
    Daniels' and Scott Thatcher's posts makes it pretty clear that]* The standards
    by which font rasterization is judged to be \"good\" or \"bad\" can be very different.\r\nMicrosoft's
    position is that a font is well rasterized if it has high black/white contrast
    and as little grayscaling as possible. (I exaggerate a bit.) Scott Thatcher's,
    Nick Shinn's (and my) position is that OSX's \"blurry\" grayscaling is highly
    readable too -- and as Nick indicated, future higher resolution screens will contribute
    to make this kind of grayscaling look better than on cheap low-res screens. It
    is two contradicting philosophies: Counting Pixels vs Scanning Word Images. (Again,
    exaggerating a bit.) Only then, other factors come into play: MS requires hinting,
    Apple doesn't, and I think Adobe CS app's do well without hinting too.\r\nFrom
    a font production side the question arises: Is it worth the extra efforts for
    a <cite>slightly</cite> better look on low-res screens? And from a user's side:
    Which OS serves me better -- one that allows for a handful of <cite>very</cite>
    well rendered fonts (very well means: with high contrast, measured by MS' standards),
    or one that renders <cite>all</cite> fonts well (which means: they look a bit
    \"blurry\" from MS' point of view)?\r\nThe much-cited \"blurriness\" is exactly
    the merit of grayscaling, for it takes into account that one scans word images,
    that screen resolutions have become a bit higher so you don't have to, and cannot,
    count pixels any more. Amusingly, Windows' rasterizer(s) trained people to consider
    a font to look good if it looks like a black/white pixel font. But I think former
    Mac OS9 users very well understood the improvement that ATM finally offered by
    introducing grayscaling; suddenly you could <cite>read</cite> text that you could
    only guess at before, say, when typesetting italics, and one could even go down
    with PPEM sizes. The funny thing however is that since grayscaling, people tend
    to use PPEM sizes much smaller than they could use when type was rasterized in
    black/white, and of course that leads to unreadable results again ...\r\nI am
    convinced that it is rasterizers that have to be intelligent, not fonts. At least
    from the distance it is telling that it was Apple who (as co-inventor of TT) decided
    to forget about hints in their systems' rasterizer.\r\n\r\n* Consider it as being
    deleted."
  created: '2006-11-05 12:54:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Is it worth the extra efforts for a slightly better look on low-res screens?\r\n\r\nYeah,
    you're right, we should stop making new text fonts too.\r\n\r\n> Which OS serves
    me better \u2014 one that allows for a handful of very\r\n> well rendered fonts
    (very well means: with high contrast, measured\r\n> by MS\u2019 standards), or
    one that renders all fonts well\r\n\r\nAh, but the OS that serves <cite>Apple</cite>
    best is evidently one that renders all fonts poorly.\r\n\r\nAlso, it's a mistake
    to equate anti-aliasing with blurriness.\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/manademo/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-05 14:25:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Karsten,\r\n\r\n>Comparing Simon Daniels\u2019 and Scott Thatcher\u2019s
    posts makes it pretty clear that the standards by which font rasterization is
    judged to be \u201Cgood\u201D or \u201Cbad\u201D can be very different.\r\n\r\nWhoa,
    can you go back and re-read my posts? There was nothing negative about my explanation
    of Apple's approach in OSX. Why are you putting words into my mouth? I didn't
    say Apple's approach was bad or that I prefer crisp type to blurry type. In fact
    I only wrote about the Apple rendering philosophy and the reaction from hard-core
    TrueType purists within Apple. I didn't even mention Microsoft's approach.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-05 16:04:04'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Hello Mr Daniels, sorry! After describing Apple's philosophy you wrote\r\n\r\n<cite>Despite
    the development savings, I think this displeased some of the font people who saw
    TrueType hinting as an Apple invention that was still relevant to on-screen legibility.
    Cheaper & faster is not always better :-(</cite>\r\n\r\nwhich I interpreted as
    being your opinion, but now I see that you were citing \"some of the font people\",
    and I didn't realize that \"some of the font people\" meant to be Apple's font
    people ...\r\nPlain misreading on my part.&nbsp;&nbsp;:(\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2006-11-05 19:35:55'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "H.P. <cite>Also, it\u2019s a mistake to equate anti-aliasing with blurriness.</cite>\r\n\r\nDo
    you think going back to pixel fonts (whether b/w or grayscaled) is a solution?
    The idea of pixel fonts always reminds me of my first attempt at digital fonts
    on my Atari 1040ST with Signum!2 or Signum!3; I also remember my delight when
    I got to know that there were font formats that used outlines which were converted
    to pixel images on demand.&nbsp;&nbsp;:)\r\nOf course pixel fonts can be a good
    thing for some handheld devices.\r\n\r\nK.L. <cite>Is it worth the extra efforts
    for a slightly better look on low-res screens?</cite>\r\nH.P. <cite>Yeah, you're
    right, we should stop making new text fonts too.</cite>\r\n\r\nFirst, I think
    Apple's method is ok, and the higher the resolution of the screen, the better
    are the results.\r\nBut my point was, maybe it's possible to improve rasterizers
    a bit so they don't require hints on font level? (Say, if required for small PPEM
    sizes, fonts could be autohinted by the rasterizer before being rasterized.)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Scott Thatcher
      picture: 111324
    body: "K.L. <em>But my point was, maybe it\u2019s possible to improve rasterizers
      a bit so they don\u2019t require hints on font level? (Say, if required for
      small PPEM sizes, fonts could be autohinted by the rasterizer before being rasterized.)</em>\r\n\r\nThe
      work-around to Apple's patent on the bytecode interpreter by the Freetype people
      was to create an auto-hinter that does what you describe. The natural question
      is \"How well does it work,\" and that I can't answer.\r\n\r\nScott"
    created: '2006-11-06 03:28:02'
  created: '2006-11-05 20:04:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Plain misreading on my part.  :(\r\n\r\nThat explains it. Thanks. "
  created: '2006-11-06 00:54:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Do you think going back to pixel fonts (whether b/w or grayscaled) is a
    solution?\r\n\r\n1) I don't think it's \"back\".\r\n2) What's the screen made
    of again?  :-)\r\n\r\nMaybe I'm partial to bitmaps for the same reason you're
    not: the oldschool systems. I had decent success with my Commodore-64, in Armenian
    and Arabic no less! There is a purity to it, sort of like cutting a metal font
    for a single size (I presume). And it's a functional purity, not some romantic
    affectation; you design what needs to be seen.\r\n\r\n> maybe it\u2019s possible
    to improve rasterizers a\r\n> bit so they don\u2019t require hints on font level?\r\n\r\nIt's
    clearly not \"a bit\".\r\nThis was the promise of Postscript, and the non-delivery
    of this promise is the main reason the introduction of Truetype was justified.
    We still don't have a really good \"automatic\" renderer. Yes, it seems it would
    be possible to make one; but it also seems it's extremely difficult = would cost
    more money to develop than this field has at its -altruistic- disposal.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Scott Thatcher
      picture: 111324
    body: "hrant: <em>Maybe I\u2019m partial to bitmaps for the same reason you\u2019re
      not: the oldschool systems. I had decent success with my Commodore-64, in Armenian
      and Arabic no less! There is a purity to it, sort of like cutting a metal font
      for a single size (I presume). And it\u2019s a functional purity, not some romantic
      affectation; you design what needs to be seen.</em>\r\n\r\nI hadn't thought
      of it from quite that direction before.  Although I've recently become fond
      of Bitstream Vera for text terminals and system interface use in Linux, I have
      always prefered bitmapped fonts for coding and other purposes where the display
      on screen was the end goal.\r\n\r\nHowever, I've never appreciated the black-and-white
      bitmapped look of fonts like Times New Roman or Garamond in something like Microsoft
      Word because I've never felt that the crisp, pixelated look matches what I'll
      see on the final printed page.\r\n\r\nOn another note, does anyone here know
      whether Windows applies hints before it applies antialiasing?  If the stem width
      is hinted into one pixel width before it's anti-aliased, it might explain why
      some stems seem to me to almost entirely disappear after antialiasing.\r\n\r\nScott"
    created: '2006-11-06 16:45:18'
  created: '2006-11-06 04:32:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> Do you think going back to pixel fonts (whether b/w or grayscaled) is a
    solution?\r\n\r\niPod uses bitmap fonts - 50 million users can't be wrong. \r\n"
  created: '2006-11-06 04:37:38'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>iPod uses bitmap fonts - 50 million users can\u2019t be wrong.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhen
    I added, <cite>of course pixel fonts can be a good thing for some handheld devices</cite>,
    there was no polemics in it.\r\nThe title of the thread suggests \"big\" OSses
    on \"big\" computers to me. But since they also drive handheld devices, these
    are indeed part of the picture."
  created: '2006-11-06 06:52:39'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>iPod uses bitmap fonts - 50 million users can\u2019t be wrong.</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    you don't really \"read\" your iPod."
  created: '2006-11-06 11:13:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"The real problem with Linux is that if you aren\u2019t a *nix programmer
    and you want to do more than surf the web and edit OpenOffice documents, the software
    available for Linux pretty much sucks\"\r\n\r\nI can't get get past this either,
    or more specificaally, the conversion of all my databases into open source applications
    might just kill me. But, just for kicks, what would be the specification of a
    Linutype\u2122 cores set?\r\n\r\n\"Thinking about Apple holding the patents on
    TrueType hinting but not using them...\"\r\n\r\nI think this is fair, but inaccurate
    : I believe Apple <strong>does</strong> use hints below the user-defined anti-aliasing
    switch in the appearance preferences.  In addition, Apple only holds patents on
    2.5 instructions; the DeltaP instruction, and the Set Projection Vector To Line
    / Set Freedom Vector To Line combo. All the rest are prior art or something. Since
    these instructions are required for OS core font quality aliased fonts, but not
    anti-aliased, to some extent, Linux font quality is a waiting game, though not
    much longer. \r\n\r\n\"(edit) er, no actually the fonts (Vera) were licensed to
    GNOME\"\r\nEr, actually the Vera copyright allows all uses including derived versions,
    so it is freeware to all users.\r\n\r\n\"The work-around to Apple\u2019s patent
    on the bytecode interpreter by the Freetype people was to create an auto-hinter
    that does what you describe. The natural question is \u201CHow well does it work,\u201D
    and that I can\u2019t answer.\"\r\n\r\nI can. For readability purposes, auto-hinting
    One-size-fits-all outlines, i.e. fonts with no mastering capabilities, for low
    resolution (less than 200 ppi) aliased fonts, is hopeless. For the same purposes,
    auto-hinting One-size-fits-all outlines, for anti-aliased fonts, is hopeless below
    96 or so. Many other possibilities exist with multiply mastered, or single master
    enabled outlines, and Linux might be a great future platform for typography, but
    not until the w3c makes some changes."
  created: '2006-11-06 13:38:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "If you read some of the comments above and look at the issues I think that
    \"user preference\" is a bit of a red herring. In some cases the same users may
    want text to as accurately as possible reflect the appearance of the printed page,
    legibility isn't that important. In other cases you want to read or proof content.
    I think that's where the Windows vs MacOS differences come in. In other cases,
    say in the UI of a device, you're not reading extended text, just want the UI
    elements, phone numbers and song titles to be non-ambiguous - quirky(like on the
    RAZR) or blurry (like on the iPod) is good enough. \r\n\r\n>On another note, does
    anyone here know whether Windows applies hints before it applies antialiasing?\r\n\r\nMy
    understanding, and I could be completely wrong, is that Windows (like other OS's)
    overscales and then down-samples to get the grayscale bitmaps - so hints are applied
    at the overscaled size unless the gasp table says not to apply hints. \r\n\r\nThe
    problem may relate to very thin fonts like Courier - where drop-out control essentially
    provides the bi-level bitmap. Even before ClearType people (HP?) were shipping
    bolder Couriers to overcome this problem on 600dpi printers. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2006-11-06 17:08:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Apple does use hints below the user-defined anti-aliasing switch\r\n\r\nWhat
    is the <cite>OS-default</cite> setting for this?\r\n\r\n> I\u2019ve never felt
    that the crisp, pixelated look\r\n> matches what I\u2019ll see on the final printed
    page.\r\n\r\nBut it never can, aliased or anti. WYSIWYG is an illusion.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-06 17:20:28'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> Apple does use hints below the user-defined anti-aliasing switch\r\n\r\nThis
    contradicts what I was told, but it might be true. An easy way to tell would be
    to produce a waterfall sample with a hinted font, and a copy of that font with
    hints stripped. Then diff the images.  "
  created: '2006-11-06 17:41:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"What is the OS-default setting for this?\r\n10 or 8. Why?\r\n\r\n\"This
    contradicts what I was told, but it might be true.\"\r\nThen you were told wrong.
    Go to a Mac, and look. \r\n\r\n\"This calls for side-by-side screen comparison,
    don\u2019t you think?\"\r\nI think a lot, but side-by-side they all fail somewhere,
    for someone, for some size for some font, for some screen, for some light, for
    some document, and the problem is very deepy embedded in a non-functional competitive
    spirit. \r\n\r\nHey SII, do you think your company's gonna publish a full description
    of the changes to the TT hint language any time soon?"
  created: '2006-11-06 19:39:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Hey SII, do you think your company\u2019s gonna publish a full description
    of the changes to the TT hint language any time soon?\r\n\r\nYou might want to
    ask Greg or Mike. If they have a document, I'd be happy to post it on microsoft.com/typography
    \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2006-11-06 19:42:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I was thinking more about the GPL and the requirement to make source code
    available and freely modifiable and extendable. \r\n\r\nNo, I don't think so -
    you might want to see the notes published by Victor about the SIL license - I
    think this explains why he thinks GPL is no good for fonts. \r\n\r\nHowever my
    original comment remains - I don't think many type designers would turn down a
    paid commission to create a font that the client may decide to distribute under
    GPL. \r\n\r\nI think a lot of work-for-hire contracts for custom fonts would allow
    the client to do whatever they like with their property if they really wanted
    to. \r\n\r\nThat doesn't mean the designer would be totally happy with about it
    - I recall when we issued the Web fonts under a free license that allowed redistribution,
    one of the typographic engineers invovled was quite vocal on a public list about
    the folly of Microsoft providing free fonts. \r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Gus Winterbottom
    body: "> I think a lot of work-for-hire contracts for custom fonts would allow
      the client to do whatever they like with their property if they really wanted
      to. \r\n\r\nAh. Thanks, sii; I missed the work-for-hire aspect the first time
      around and was only thinking about designers selling fonts on their own behalf.\r\n\r\nSo
      what's the bottom line here on Apple? I've been thinking about switching from
      a PC to an iMac because of the convenient form factor and not having to worry
      so much about malware. Will I go blind from bad font rendering if I buy an iMac?
      Should I buy the iMac and then tweak the OS settings per the discussion here?\r\n"
    created: '2006-11-07 18:00:05'
  created: '2006-11-06 20:03:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> 10 or 8. Why?\r\n\r\nBecause an OS default is like the word of god for
    most users. And I'm\r\nbetting it's 8, because then hints continue to not matter
    (to reading).\r\n\r\n> the problem is very deepy embedded in a non-functional
    competitive spirit.\r\n\r\nIndeed.\r\nNot to mention the gamma difference!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-06 20:57:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Guess again ;-)
  created: '2006-11-06 21:41:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Give up? It''s 12. '
  created: '2006-11-06 21:51:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This doesn't seem to make sense.\r\nYou go to the mall, walk in to the Apple
    store, fire up a browser, and all the text is anti-aliased at pretty much any
    size. Assuming the store machines have the default settings, what's going on?
    Are the OS/web fonts unhinted? Are they anti-aliased but still rendered with hints
    (below 12)? Or what? I don't get it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-07 05:31:12'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">You might want to ask Greg or Mike.\r\nYou don't think I'd ask you first,
    do you?:-)\r\n\r\n>Are the OS/web fonts unhinted?\r\nWhat's an  OS/web font?\r\n\r\n>Are
    they anti-aliased but still rendered with hints (below 12)? Or what? I don\u2019t
    get it.\r\nThey are rendered aliased with hints below the selected number, and
    anti-aliased without hints above the selected number. Got it?"
  created: '2006-11-07 14:15:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> What\u2019s an OS/web font?\r\n\r\nI mean the fonts likely to end up being
    viewed in a browser (as text).\r\n\r\n> They are rendered aliased with hints below
    the selected number\r\n\r\nThat's what I would have thought, but I don't think
    that's what I've seen.\r\n\r\nHas the cutoff control been introduced recently,
    or has the default cutoff value been raised recently?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-07 14:19:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "12 was the number Apple gave me yesterday. I'm trying to get the okay to
    repost the complete answer they gave me. \r\n\r\n>You don\u2019t think I\u2019d
    ask you first, do you?:-) \r\n\r\nIn this case Mike and Greg are the organ grinders
    and I'm the monkey, the web monkey if you will. If they want to publish some information
    (assuming they have it in publishable form) they'll send it to me and ask me to
    post it on the site. So in this case if the organ grinders say no, talking to
    the monkey won't help you."
  created: '2006-11-07 15:45:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Si, then who is the \"Trunk Monkey\"? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-07 16:18:34'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Si, then who is the \u201CTrunk Monkey\u201D? :-)\r\n\r\nCan't say. ;-)\r\n\r\n>You
    don\u2019t think I\u2019d ask you first, do you?:-) \r\n\r\nI checked and we're
    not sure what changes you're talking about - send me a mail at simonda@... and
    I'll set us up a conference call with Mike and Greg.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-07 16:50:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Si,\r\nIf you have not seen them, they are a good laugh:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.trunkmonkeyad.com/\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-07 16:52:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I had to look it up at the Urban Dictionary...\r\n\r\n\"A small primate usually
    of the chimpanzee variaty that tends to jump from ones trunk and kick peoples
    asses.\" \r\n\r\nI was going to suggest we have attorneys to do that ;-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-07 17:09:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You won't go blind - but you might in fact get a headache [sooner] if you
    read something long enough. If you don't read long things onscreen, then it's
    just a matter of tolerating it ideologically.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-07 18:03:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I'd go for this rig...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.engadget.com/2006/11/03/vadim-computers-unveils-8-800-quad-core-gaming-rig-in-the-uk/
    \ "
  created: '2006-11-07 18:47:51'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Gus,\r\n\r\nThere's a CompUSA in Tustin. Go over there and try out the macs
    and pcs and see what you like. There are issues that probably outweigh the type
    rendering quality when making such a decision. The difference isn't so great that
    it overrides concerns like non-consensual browser upgrades, viruses, compatibility,
    bundled software, setup time, OS, all-in-one issues, etc. It's more important
    that you decide how you want to use your new computer, and for what. Note that
    you can use a Mac as a PC now anyway, though that won't change the appearance.
    For that matter you can use it as a Unix machine as well. \r\n\r\nI've been using
    a Cinema Display for 4 years, and I have to say it's a gigantic improvement in
    crispness over my previous monitor (a giant heavy blurry CRT). There are several
    excellent fonts I use for most everything (Lucida Grande, Georgia, Verdana, Andale
    Mono), I have my font sizes relatively small, I read online a lot, and I don't
    suffer headaches in my daily work (I'm a type designer).\r\n\r\nThe difference
    in font/rendering quality that people are discussing really is very subjective.
    No computer/OS/font/renderer combo is giving anyone an environment approximating
    a book anyway. People like their type looking different; the opinions here should
    make it clear. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Gus Winterbottom
    body: "Carl, thank you for the suggestion. I actually live within walking distance
      of the Tustin Marketplace. I went to the Apple store in South Coast Plaza earlier
      this year, but the font issue wasn't in my mind at that point. If I'm going
      back to SCP, it has to be before the Christmas rush (which should be starting
      any day now). SCP at Christmas -- the mere thought makes me want to move out
      of state. But the Fry's in Anaheim is also within striking distance.\r\n\r\nYou're
      absolutely right about the other concerns you list -- those are the kinds of
      things I'm considering, and the reason I haven't made a decision yet."
    created: '2006-11-08 00:55:14'
  created: '2006-11-07 18:48:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The Mac screen reads quite beautifully and easily. You won't go blind or
    get any more of a headache than you would on a PC with a comparable monitor.  I
    go back and forth between both systems with ease. The new Apple flat screens are
    quite sharp and easy on the eyes. Why don't you just go to an Apple dealer and
    see for yourself? Whatever we may say here can't beat your own eyes looking.  Judge
    for yourself.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-07 18:52:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Si,\r\nTrunk Monkeys are much more fun and cheaper than lawyers :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-07 18:56:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Carl, when everything in a \"T\" is crisp except its horizontal bar has a
    gray \"shadow\" on top, that's Not Good. If that doesn't matter then neither do
    discussions about serifs, or readability, or pretty much anything else on Typophile.
    Reading blurry text is known to cause headaches. Text that's slightly blurry most
    probably suffers from this slightly, but still does, and over time manifests itself
    (sooner).\r\n\r\nNothing is totally subjective, and -as David mentioned- platform
    preferences often cloud our objectivity. One advantage I might have in this respect
    is that I think both platform are crap.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-07 19:01:59'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Hrant, don't conflate the limited importance of rendering on various platforms
    with every other issue we discuss. Remember Readerability? It is very much at
    work here. People have to get work done and their concerns are probably much different
    than yours. Since the typeface design itself, letter spacing, line spacing and
    contrast influence reading comfort as much as this blurriness, especially at this
    low level, I don't think it's something to weigh more than other usability factors
    when choosing a new computer. Again, no combination of hardware and software is
    giving anyone an optimal reading environment, and everyone needs to read onscreen
    different amounts. I don't read books online, for example. At the same time, any
    current environment is an improvement over what was available 15 years ago. \r\n\r\nSince
    this issue is an evolving one, all our hand-wringing about blurry type may be
    moot before Gus' new computer is obsolete. "
  created: '2006-11-07 19:28:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I don\u2019t think it\u2019s something to weigh more than\r\n> other usability
    factors when choosing a new computer.\r\n\r\nI totally agree. But that shouldn't
    impede the realization/admission that OSX's rendering leaves much to be desired.
    What is quality without the minding of details? Why did you spend 14 years finishing
    Beorcana?\r\n\r\nEven though I've never been a big fan of hinting (especially
    not delta-hinting) when a font does have hinting, chances are it helps, and ignoring
    that is bad. Making all fonts look equally lousy is an entirely empoverished justification.\r\n\r\nAny
    rendering smaller than about 22 PPEM needs human help.\r\n\r\n> all our hand-wringing
    about blurry type may be moot\r\n\r\nNot for a long, long time. And design is
    best when it's useful now or soon.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-07 19:35:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I checked and we\u2019re not sure what changes you\u2019re talking about
    - \"\r\nHmmm, thanks for asking. (peanut)\r\n\r\nThe original advice Microsoft
    gave to font developers was to hint TT for CT the same as TT for Aliased type
    and let it be. Then, 2.5 years later discusssion brought us (yawn) to the realization
    that this was not practical, so we asked again. In the context of pointing out
    to Mr. Hudson, that this new technology was not well positioned for most foundries
    to take advantage of, Mr. Hudson said his foundry was able to do the entire CT
    collection without rocket scientists. I pressed on this until it wasn't true,
    and eventually got Greg to respond:\r\n\r\nFor existing fonts, some of the deltas
    and delta-like instructions were causing a significant amount of distortion to
    the glyphs under ClearType--so we disabled some of these instructions in certain
    situations. It was not our intent, though, to reduce the TrueType instruction
    set. To handle this situation, we added a new flag to the INSTCTRL instruction
    that returns the full functionality of the instruction set to the hints. The INSTCTRL
    can be used globally in the pre-program to work for the whole font, or individually
    in glyph programs to impact only the current glyph. This last usage can be helpful
    when updating legacy fonts.\r\n\r\nMr: Hudson then responded, (yawn):\r\nWell
    that sounds worth investigating. Is this documented someplace, Greg?\r\n\r\nI
    then asked for a definitive list of the hints the CT filterer ignored, (thinking,
    well, I'll just leave those out then :)), and that, my dear man, was (yawn), mid-July.\r\n\r\n\"I
    checked and we\u2019re not sure what changes you\u2019re talking about \u2014
    \"\r\nIs that, now, \"what changes\" or \"which changes\" (the answer to which
    is worth a small but perfectly ripened bunch of bananas.)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2006-11-08 12:34:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Greg said he'd give you a call.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2006-11-08 15:10:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ">> \"To handle this situation, we added a new flag to\r\n>> the INSTCTRL
    instruction that returns the full\r\n>> functionality of the instruction set to
    the hints.\"\r\n\r\nInterestingly, this is something I proposed to John (on Typophile,
    IIRC) about a year or two ago. Which is not to claim I'm a rocket scientist, or
    that it that takes one to put such a thing in.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-08 15:33:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, it's looking like I'm going to be hitting the mall soon I guess. Excitingly,
    the weather has been very warm - I'll be hyper-vigilant so as not to miss anything
    memorable, IYKnWhIM.\r\n\r\nWhat was that website that dynamically compares screen
    fonts side-by-side again?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-08 18:36:22'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "This one perhaps?\r\n\r\nhttp://typetester.maratz.com/"
  created: '2006-11-08 19:19:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes! Thanks much.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-08 19:29:20'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Greg Hitchcock sent me a correction to my guess regarding how Windows deals
    with hints and grayscale... \r\n\r\n\"The technique we use for font smoothing
    (anti-aliasing or gray scaling) in Windows is to first hint the outline, which
    usually grid-fits the major stems. Then we overscale and filter. This technique
    was explicitly chosen to reduce the blur. This behavior can be changed on a per-font
    basis by adjusting the gasp table in the font (not that I approve this method,
    but see: http://www.aqua-soft.org/board/showthread.php?t=29701 )\"\r\n\r\nAlso
    in the corrections department I was in touch with a couple of folks at Apple and
    my \"Mac OS X doesn't use hints\" claim was wrong, what MacOS does was described
    as being very complex, with various layers, and app-specific options in play,
    but at small sizes hints are applied in some cases. The source of my confusion
    was a comment by them that they are not having fonts hinted anymore, which is
    very different from the idea that they are ignoring existing hints completely.
    \r\n\r\nThanks, Si"
  created: '2006-11-09 21:24:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ">> \"not that I approve this method\"\r\n\r\nWhy not?\r\n\r\n> at small sizes
    hints are applied in some cases.\r\n\r\nWhat's \"small\"? What cases?\r\n\r\nThe
    impression I'm getting is that hinting is applied very rarely, and that certainly
    jives with what I've seen myself and the overall impressions of others that I've
    heard.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-09 21:40:12'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Interestingly, this is something I proposed to John (on Typophile, IIRC)
    about a year or two ago.\"\r\nGood work, and at the time, the instruction under
    discussion was two years old, (?) and not yet documented then as it is not yet
    documented now. \r\n\r\n\"Which is not to claim I\u2019m a rocket scientist, or
    that it that takes one to put such a thing in.\"\r\nI agree most rocket scientists
    are not interested in type. And, no, it doesn't take much for MS to put in an
    instruction, or as many instructions as they want, Adobe and Apple too. It's a
    good indication of the direction MS and Apple are headed on TT though. One way
    is to turn off instructions entirely or use them all, but in any case, to make
    it clear to all what you've done.  Another's to turn off some instructions and
    turn on who you want to which ones you've turned off, in this case, but there
    might even be other instructions, at any time."
  created: '2006-11-11 23:14:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> at the time, the instruction under discussion was two years old, (?)\r\n\r\nSo
    it wasn't just added recently? It was there the whole time or something?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-12 01:16:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So I went to an Apple Store earlier today, fired up the TypeTester site,
    with the OSX* a-a cutoff control panel also in view, and tried various combinations
    of fonts, sizes and settings. Although -according to what Simon has been told-
    my findings might only apply to web browsing (and maybe even only the particular
    browser I tried) this is arguably the most significant area of screenfont display
    quality.\r\n\r\n* Version 10.4.8\r\n\r\nThe two important things I found were
    that: the a-a cutoff is indeed also a hinting cutoff (not a huge surprise); and
    my hunch about the cutoff value was correct, it's 8 (I tried five different computers
    and they were all at 8). The significance of this is that almost no text (except
    things like legal disclaimers... hmmm... :-) will end up being rendered aliased/hinted.
    BTW Simon, you might want to get back to your \"12\" source about this.\r\n\r\nWhat's
    pretty strange though is that at 8 and below a-a looks legible (down to 6, typically)
    but aliased is not legible that low.* In fact some superhinted fonts, like Georgia,
    don't even seem to be hinted below 9 PPEM**. So the net result I feel is that
    the cutoff is doing more harm than good, since almost no user will raise it above
    the default of 8. Also, you can't raise it above 12, which is generally too low
    an upper limit for somebody savvy enough to be messing with it.\r\n\r\n* BTW,
    the legibility cutoff difference of a-a versus aliased seems to be\r\nbetween
    1 and 3 PPEM (depending on the font) in favor of the former.\r\n\r\n** A given
    font's GASP settings -ignored by OSX- play into this of course.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-13 05:05:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" So the net result I feel is that the cutoff is doing more harm than good,
    since almost no user will raise it above the default of 8\"\r\n\r\nWhy's that?
    I mean, ad hoc 9 ppm - 13 ppm Antialiased type is pretty close to, though not
    exactly readable to most bipeds.\r\n\r\n\"So it wasn\u2019t just added recently?
    It was there the whole time or something?\"\r\nDepends on your defintion of whole
    or something. But I doubt MS could have drawn the CT Collection in '03 without
    both the instruction(s) and the response of the system to those new instructions
    already in place and tested on legacy TT fonts. "
  created: '2006-11-13 16:12:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's not the cutoff feature that does more harm than good, it's the setting
    of it at 8*. It does more harm than good because for between about 6 and 8 PPEM
    it makes text unnecessarily illegible. The feature's plus side -that it allows
    people to change it- is negated by the fact that: almost nobody will change it;
    and it doesn't go above 12.\r\n\r\n* Although I do maintain my innuendo :-) that
    they set it low because the Important People didn't want the cutoff feature to
    matter. But I guess now they have the best of both worlds because they can get
    users to view text the way they think is best (for Apple!) but they can still
    say \"Look, it's in there - you can change it if you like!\" although as I said
    the max is 12 - tellingly too low. Let's think about why they didn't allow the
    savvies who would bother changing the cutoff to go all they way to where the superhinted
    fonts (or even the just the well-hinted fonts) no longer need to be hinted? And
    what's so hard -especially if their rendering decisions are already \"complex\"-
    about checking to see how good a font's hinting is and then deciding how to render
    it? (Sorry my asterisked text was longer than the body. :-)\r\n\r\nThe cutoff
    feature itself is better than not having it at all,\r\nbut only because OSX's
    base rendering philosophy is flawed.  :-/\r\n\r\n> I doubt MS could have drawn
    the CT Collection in \u201803 without ...\r\n\r\nBut I thought John H found out
    about it with us?\r\n\r\nHmmm, question:\r\nWhen he asked onlist for more documentation\r\nfrom
    MS about the feature, did he get a reply?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-13 16:40:49'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "I changed the setting to 12, and it\u2019s terrible. Here\u2019s a screen
    shot.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture2_6561.png]\r\n\r\nI honestly
    can\u2019t understand how somebody can prefer the Windows rendering. Using Windows
    makes my eyes hurt. Hinted or unhihinted, I think the end result is what counts."
  created: '2006-11-13 18:56:13'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Here is the same text with the anti-alias on.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture1_6256.png]\r\n\r\nHrant,
    I hope it\u2019s ok to use your text. You write long posts. ;^)"
  created: '2006-11-13 18:57:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I honestly can\u2019t understand how somebody can prefer the Windows rendering.\r\n\r\nBut
    that's NOT the Windows rendering.\r\nThat's your Mac's rendering, and that's exactly
    the point.\r\n\r\nHere's what the text looks like on my actual Windows machine,\r\nwith
    your screen grabs at the bottom for direct comparison:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/grab_4227.gif]\r\n\r\nIn
    comparison to my <cite>native</cite> aliased rendering (not that Georgia wasn't
    designed to work on Macs (pre-OSX) just as well) your a-a rendering looks like
    an expired dairy product. But best of all would be a-a rendering that's not blurry,
    which is not impossible, just not dirt cheap. You'd think Apple was a cut-rate
    product, but it's the opposite! Like I always say, you can sell dogfood to a cat
    owner for double the price if you market it well enough.\r\n\r\nBut maybe you're
    using a word processor to render my text, and the necessity of preserving linebreaks
    (between screen and print) in that situation causes the font renderer to use the
    outline metrics, without spacing hints. At least I hope for the sake of Mac users
    that's what's happening, because otherwise it means the disease of WYSIWYG has
    infected the Mac much worse than it has infected Windows... which howevever wouldn't
    be surprising.\r\n\r\nBut thanks to you I now realize the real reason why Apple
    decided to go\r\nwith total-abandon a-a: WYSIWYG, our eternal collective digital
    curse.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
      picture: 128337
    body: "I disagree!\r\n\r\n> But that\u2019s NOT the Windows rendering.\r\n> That\u2019s
      your Mac\u2019s rendering, and that\u2019s exactly the point.\r\n\r\nSorry,
      I wasn\u2019t clear. The screen shots were there because you said 12 is too
      low and so on. I prefer the default setting. \r\n\r\nI have access to Windows
      PCs and the possibility to compare them with Macs side by side. It\u2019s a
      torture when I have to write some paper on Windows Word. It might be just because
      I\u2019m used to smooth text (we read best what we read most) but the same applies
      to you, too.\r\n\r\n> your a-a rendering looks like an expired dairy product\r\n\r\nMan,
      I\u2019m lactose intolerant, believe me, I would know. ;-D"
    created: '2006-11-13 20:57:09'
  created: '2006-11-13 19:37:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> best of all would be a-a rendering that\u2019s not blurry\r\n\r\nAnd <cite>this</cite>,
    ladies and gents, is how it's supposed to look:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/grab2_5019.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-13 19:49:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Or if you prefer dark meat - I do:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/grab3_3820.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-13 20:01:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I prefer the default setting.\r\n\r\nYes, and I prefer eating burned toast
    to eating burned tires.\r\n\r\n> we read best what we read most\r\n\r\nNo.\r\nWe
    think we read best what we'd like to think we read best.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-13 21:22:13'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: :^)
  created: '2006-11-13 22:46:49'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Hrant, can you turn the omniscience down to a 6? You're at an 11. \r\n\r\n;)"
  created: '2006-11-13 23:34:19'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "I think 11 is the default.\r\n\r\n> Also, you can\u2019t raise it above 12,
    which is generally too low an upper limit for somebody savvy enough to be messing
    with it.\r\n\r\nB^D"
  created: '2006-11-13 23:46:36'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Simon, that''s your cue..... '
  created: '2006-11-14 00:04:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ":-)\r\nBut verily, there is no omniscience without omn\xEFgnorance. ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-14 00:07:47'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "SPPPPAFFFFF\r\n\r\n[coffee on monitor]\r\n\r\nTHAT'S some assy logic there. "
  created: '2006-11-14 00:10:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> [coffee on monitor]\r\n\r\nDon't worry, it can't get any blurrier.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-14 00:39:59'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Simon, that\u2019s your cue\u2026..\r\n\r\nI've retired from my previous
    position of reposter of Apple info. "
  created: '2006-11-14 01:34:21'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'No, the "this one goes to 11" thing. '
  created: '2006-11-14 02:30:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\r\n\"I honestly can\u2019t understand how somebody can prefer the Windows
    rendering.\"\r\n\r\nThen I can honestly tell you that I prefer it, in theory,
    because: a. what Hrant is talking about, the user's ability to slide the size
    up or down at which AA takes affect, is what the GASP table of TT does, a table
    which Windows reacts to (I think), and b. Mac does not (I think). What this means,
    is that the type designer could have some control over what the user(s) get(s),
    which is important because there are a lot of different \"typefaces\" and resolutions
    in the world. \r\n\r\nNow, if we can just ram the Mac head-on into the Windows,
    peacefully, like Reece's did with chocolate and peanut butter, we could get an
    OS that both respects the gasp table, and lets the user control overall AA on/off,
    and intensity, and all be sitting in peanut butter cups, instead of something
    not entirely unlike a choice between lizard poop fondue (bad fonts in a good renderer),
    or a chocolate bar in a blanket of burn bacon, (the opposite). \r\n\r\nMe: I doubt
    MS could have drawn the CT Collection in \u201803 without [documentation of a
    new instruction]\u2026\r\n\r\nHrant: But I thought John H found out about it with
    us? Hmmm, question: When he asked on[-]list for more documentation from MS about
    the feature, did he get a reply?\r\n\r\nJohn didn't need to, is the short answer.
    The medium length answer is that developers who want to explore and possibly provide
    a wide range of innovative solutions to the wide range of styles and scripts customers
    are seeking, are the only ones who really need to know. And the long answer involves
    1/2 of what the instruction is about, backward compatibility to existing MS TT
    fonts, which, along with hinting, is not John's concern. \r\n\r\nPut in terms
    this list will understand, it's time to turn it up to 12 or more, but Mom has
    the remote."
  created: '2006-11-14 13:22:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> What this means, is that the type designer could\r\n> have some control
    over what the user(s) get(s)\r\n\r\nThis is fact the core philosophical difference
    between TT and PS. The problem with OSX is that it assumes the latter's philosophy
    for fonts made with the former's. It's wasteful, and anti-user.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-14 17:17:03'
date: '2006-11-02 20:00:59'
node_type: forum
title: Fonts and the popularity of various operating systems

---
