---
author:
  name: mga
body: '&#62;&#62;&#62;Why the necessity for this tyranny?  <BR>  <BR>Suppose you want
  to collaborate on a report &#40;or similar long document&#41; with a subcontractor
  who doesn&#39;t have your fonts.  <BR> <BR>What do you do, lose all your formatting
  when you get the document back? <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;&#62;One problem is that the
  MS core fonts are no longer freely downloadable. <BR> <BR>I think they are, just
  not from Microsoft&#39;s site. As I recall, the EULA allowed redistribution, and
  this is still exploited legally by some individuals. <BR> <BR>Oh, here ya go &#40;thanks,
  google&#41;: <BR> <BR><a href="http://corefonts.sourceforge.net/" target="_blank">http://corefonts.sourceforge.net/</a>
  <BR><a href="http://corefonts.sourceforge.net/faq8.htm" target="_blank">http://corefonts.sourceforge.net/faq8.htm</a>'
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; I think they are, just not from Microsoft&#39;s site. <BR> <BR>I thought
    they eventually clamped down on those &#34;rogue&#34; sites. <BR>Well, good news!
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-02-03 23:14:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;but they wanted a sans. <BR> <BR>How about Arial for titles - where
    it is not bad - and Georgia for text? '
  created: '2004-02-03 23:39:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '<i>Tahoma is actually a hidden gem, but it&#39;s just that: hidden. It was
    only shipped with Windows for a short while - no longer - and I think never on
    Mac.</i> <BR> <BR>Tahoma still ships with Windows. It is the default UI font on
    Windows XP for most European and Middle Eastern locales.'
  created: '2004-02-03 23:44:37'
- author:
    name: mga
  body: By the way &#40;and going all the way back to the original post&#41; does
    anyone have a link to the complete contents of Adobe Font Folio? I can&#39;t find
    it on Adobe&#39;s site, or in their PDF datasheets. <BR> <BR>Alternatively, can
    you tell me the worthwhile faces it contains that are missing from, say, the Linotype
    Essentials 1&#43;2 compilation? <BR> <BR>I&#39;m pretty sure, at this point, I&#39;ll
    be going with Essentials &#40;or Bitstream Odyessy, or E&#43;F&#41; plus a shortlist
    of independents I&#39;ve not finalised yet. I just want to cover my bases.
  created: '2004-02-04 00:06:41'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: Y&#39;all are complaining about using plain arial as a corporate font... <BR>
    <BR>My Aunt works for Sun Trust banks, and when she was here in Florida they could
    use whatever face they fancied for sending correspondance etc., however, her boss
    up in Savannah makes EVERYONE use Arial Narrow. <BR> <BR>Arial Narrow for internal
    memos, any correspondance, powerpoint presentations, email, etc. <BR> <BR>And
    he didn&#39;t choose it for any reason other than he likes it. <BR> <BR>Though,
    now, apparently, I hear he has a new font that he likes and is going to make everyone
    use. <BR> <BR>I thought about emailing him and telling him what a jackass he is
  created: '2004-02-04 05:10:19'
- author:
    name: gianotten
    picture: 110050
  body: You requested a PDF, listing the OT-fonts. On Linotype&#39;s website &#40;<a
    href="http://www.linotype.com" target="_blank">www.linotype.com</a>&#41; a complete
    list showing the OT-fonts is available. <BR>Be aware that there is also a OT-Flirt
    list. That collection however includes a lot of hybrid OT-SC, OT-OsF and OT-Alt
    versions for Quark &#40;non-Unicode&#41; users.
  created: '2004-02-04 12:33:28'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: <i>When is the world going to wake up and remember that it&#39;s better to
    write/edit texts in a completely different environment from that in which you
    design the pages? </i> <BR> <BR>I raise my imaginary glass to toast to that sentiment!
    When I hear the words &#34;design a flyer&#34; and &#34;Microsoft Word&#34; in
    the same sentence, I cringe and my heart grows cold.
  created: '2004-02-04 14:50:48'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: 'William suggested: <BR> <BR><i>&#62;It seems to me you are in a position
    to bargain  <BR>&#62;with founderies, so if I were you I would talk to  <BR>&#62;Adobe,
    Tankard, Montalbano, Fontbureau, and  <BR>&#62;whomever else you fancy. Explain
    your needs and get  <BR>&#62;them to propose a deal that will help you most. Make  <BR>&#62;them
    work for your business, and you will probably  <BR>&#62;get some great advice
    and a result you are confident  <BR>&#62;about and happy with.</i> <BR> <BR>If
    you are seriously interested in several Font Bureau fonts &#40;and I highly recommend
    them as a very good, long-term investment&#41;, then call them at &#40;US&#41;
    617-423-8770 and talk to Harry Parker. Tell him what you&#39;re interested in
    and for how many workstations and get him to quote you a volume price. Volume
    is definitely a factor in the FB pricing structure, which is not immediately apparent
    from just their website. And depending upon how many families you&#39;re interested
    in licensing, you might be pleasantly surprised. They&#39;re quite comfortable
    and adept at working with studios who are library-building such as you are.  <BR>
    <BR>Good luck with your decisions. <BR> <BR>-- K. <BR>'
  created: '2004-02-04 15:00:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Tahoma still ships with Windows. <BR> <BR>I must be going senile early.
    But I remember <i>some</i> difference between the availability of Tahoma and Verdana.
    Let me the check the tables at the MS site... <BR> <BR>Hmmm, like why does this
    page not list Tahoma? <BR><a href="http://www.microsoft.com/typography/fonts/default.aspx"
    target="_blank">http://www.microsoft.com/typography/fonts/default.aspx</a> <BR>
    <BR>-- <BR> <BR>Laurence, I&#39;m with you: Down with WYSIWYG! <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-02-04 17:42:10'
- author:
    name: lorp
  body: '&#62;Suppose you want to collaborate on a report &#40;or similar long &#62;document&#41;
    with a subcontractor who doesn&#39;t have your fonts.  <BR>&#62; <BR>&#62;What
    do you do, lose all your formatting when you get the &#62;document back?  <BR>
    <BR>When is the world going to wake up and remember that it&#39;s better to write/edit
    texts in a completely different environment from that in which you design the
    pages? Widespread &#39;wysiwyg&#39; word processing, specifically the dumping
    of WordPerfect 5.1 for Word for Windows 2.0, was a backward leap in the history
    of writing. <BR> <BR>-- Laurence'
  created: '2004-02-04 17:44:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '&#62;Suppose you want to collaborate on a report &#40;or similar long document&#41;
    with a subcontractor who doesn&#39;t have your fonts.  <BR> <BR>&#62;What do you
    do, lose all your formatting when you get the document back? <BR> <BR>One doesn&#39;t
    collaborate with subcontractors, one hires them. <BR>Make it a stipulation of
    their contract that they obtain a licence for the fonts/software you intend to
    use, and they can build the cost of that into their bill to you. <BR> <BR>Otherwise,
    it is an arrogance on the part of the contractor to impose its corporate fonts
    on the subcontractor. <BR> <BR>If the contractor choses not to, and uses Arial
    or equivalent, it is less expensive, but less of a distinctive corporate branding.
    You get what you pay for &#40;unless you have sufficient clout to bully your subcontractors
    into licensing your corporate fonts&#41;. <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2004-02-04 17:44:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>Hmmm, like why does this page not list Tahoma?  <BR><a href="http://www.microsoft.com/typography/fonts/default.aspx"
    target="_blank">http://www.microsoft.com/typography/fonts/default.aspx</a> </i>
    <BR> <BR>Because Tahoma is not a core web font, it is a core system font. Go to
    the top drop down box on that page, select Windows XP, and then hit Go. Windows
    XP ships with Tahoma and Tahoma Bold v3.00
  created: '2004-02-04 18:03:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Hrant, <a href="http://www.microsoft.com/typography/fonts/product.aspx?PID=135"
    target="_blank">here</a> it says that Tahoma ships with windows XP. '
  created: '2004-02-04 18:05:04'
- author:
    name: mga
  body: 'Okay, here is the shopping trolley: <BR> <BR>AdobeCS library &#40;bundled&#41;
    <BR>Linotype Essentials 1&#43;2 &#40;'
  created: '2004-02-04 22:22:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Hey, pretty impressive! <BR> <BR>If you need more British flavor, try one
    of these: <a href="http://www.myfonts.com/country/uk/" target="_blank">http://www.myfonts.com/country/uk/</a>
    <BR>Like Dalton Maag, or The Foundry. <BR> <BR>And what about FontBureau? Amplitude
    is a sure-fire winner. And Whitman is a rock solid text face. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-02-04 22:57:18'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Nick <BR> <BR>Adobe valued production costs for a digitized type face at $60,000.
    But you mentioned older faces such as. <BR> <BR><b>gill sans</b> <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-02-04 23:22:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '&#62;What&#39;s the difference between the Odyessy 1 and 2 <BR> <BR>Odyssey
    2 comes with a selection of typefaces from &#34;Indie&#34; foundries, to add some
    contemporaneity to the bulk of the older typefaces. I think Odyssey 1 came with
    a selection of indie fonts also. <BR> <BR>And yes, ahem, you are missing ShinnType
    fonts from your list &#40;I qualify as a Brit too, albeit transplanted ;-&#41;'
  created: '2004-02-05 00:55:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '&#62;What do you think? <BR> <BR>Gerald, part of the risk of going into business
    is that times change, and one will have invested money in something that becomes
    obsolete, either through a changing of fashion, the economy, or technology. There
    is no such thing as a right to a continuing ROI. <BR> <BR>Eric Gill is long gone.
    Let&#39;s support contemporary type culture, as an expression of the present day
    and age, by licensing contemporary fonts. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m not saying there isn&#39;t
    a place for the classics, but they should not dominate the scene the way they
    do. <BR> <BR>Interesting that you mention Gill Sans, as this was one of the typefaces
    that Adobe gave away on an Illustrator CD in the mid 90s. Millions &#40;I assume&#41;
    of free copies. Well, that&#39;s one way to prime a market. But it kind of pulled
    the rug out from underneath Cronos. <BR> <BR>Gill Sans is a 1930s typeface. The
    bowl of the a has the bulbous look of the baby carriages of that era. To me, it
    looks totally incongruous today. However, it made a valuable contribution to the
    living tradition of type design: if art directors want to choose a typeface that,
    because of its structure and proportions, works in a similar manner, they should
    use the present day &#34;equivalents&#34;, such as Cronos, Scala/Seria Sans, Bliss
    &#40;good choice, m-ga&#41;, Agenda, Eureka Sans, etc. That would make our business
    more vital and sophisticated than if everyone just uses poor old Gill.   <BR>
    <BR> '
  created: '2004-02-05 01:38:45'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: 'Nick,  <BR> <BR>Adobe were GIVIG AWAY Illustrator!? When was that? I thought
    Illustrator always cost money, and obviously, the customer also paid &#40;among
    others&#41; for the fonts included. They were not free copies, but of course,
    they were greatly reduced vs. the fonts sold separately.  <BR> <BR>I can&#39;t
    agree that Gill Sans is &#34;poor old&#34;. I&#39;d rather say it&#39;s &#34;great
    old&#34;. I myself prefer a good typeface over a new typeface. Among the designs
    you listed, I can&#39;t find a single one that would be superior to Gill Sans.
    To me, the first sanserif for years that can stand up against Gill Sans is Frantisek
    Storm&#39;s Sebastian:  <BR><a href="http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/storm/sebastian/"
    target="_blank">http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/storm/sebastian/</a> <BR> <BR>It&#39;s
    similarly sophisticated without being artificially elaborate.  <BR> <BR>If I were
    to choose between Gill and Cronos, I&#39;d choose Gill -- even if both were designed
    at the same time. The same for Agenda vs. Gill etc. I won&#39;t even compare Scala
    Sans, Bliss or Eureka Sans. They&#39;re nice but have by no means the touch of
    eternity and universality that Gill Sans has. I&#39;d say, Gill Sans is still
    better.  <BR> <BR>Adam <BR>'
  created: '2004-02-05 02:18:12'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I&#39;m happy that our Alfon and Giacomo are on your list. They are both OpenType.
    As to your indecision regarding ClearviewOne because of the price, why don&#39;t
    you email me directly and perhaps we can work out a discount seeing as you are
    thinking of buying two of our families.
  created: '2004-02-05 03:56:58'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: Adam, he means they were including Gill Sans WITH Illustrator.  Giving it
    as a bonus with purchase.  Not that they were giving copies of Illustrator away.
    <BR> <BR>And I have to agree that none of those fonts hold a candle to Gill Sans.  They
    all look like copies, and that Sebastian...it looks like Gill Sans melted.  I
    don&#39;t like it at all...especially that &#34;a&#34;, it&#39;s quite atrocious.
  created: '2004-02-05 05:30:51'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: Chris,  <BR> <BR>if Adobe were including Gill Sans with Illustrator, it automatically
    means it was not being given away. The Illustrator package &#40;that included
    the software and a collection of fonts&#41; cost several hundred dollars. Obviously,
    part of the price was the fonts, so they were not free.  <BR> <BR>It&#39;s funny
    that if there are 200 fonts on a CD and they&#39;re sold for, say, $300, it means
    they&#39;re being sold, but if there is one software application on the same CD,
    it automatically should mean the fonts are &#34;given away for free&#34;. I can&#39;t
    believe type designers think like that. Does nobody do OEM deals?  <BR> <BR>Adam
    <BR>
  created: '2004-02-05 06:59:38'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Nick, <BR> <BR><i>Gerald, part of the risk of going into business is that
    times change, and one will have invested money in something that becomes obsolete,
    either through a changing of fashion, the economy, or technology.</i> <BR>
  created: '2004-02-05 07:06:06'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: Gerald,  <BR> <BR>I naturally concur you here. Classics are not classics becaure
    they&#39;re old, but because they&#39;re eternal. Contemporary type designers
    should not strive for the elimination of their classic predecessors, but to outrun
    them by quality means.  <BR> <BR>Adam <BR>
  created: '2004-02-05 07:35:31'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Adam, <BR> <BR>Good morning to you from Finland.
  created: '2004-02-05 09:14:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Nick, although I&#39;m all for the New, and don&#39;t believe any font can
    be Eternal, there&#39;s something to be said for a design that <i>remains useful</i>
    for a long time. The reason fonts can sometimes survive a long time is probably
    very simple: deep down we&#39;ve been the same humans for a long time. <BR> <BR>It&#39;s
    great to motivate people to support living designers, but we can&#39;t ignore
    the existing practice/opinions of our users either. Otherwise we&#39;re making
    mere Art. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-02-05 17:56:47'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Hrant, <BR> <BR><i>Otherwise we&#39;re making mere Art.</i> <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-02-06 05:19:09'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: '&#34;Chris,  <BR> <BR>if Adobe were including Gill Sans with Illustrator,
    it automatically means it was not being given away. The Illustrator package &#40;that
    included the software and a collection of fonts&#41; cost several hundred dollars.
    Obviously, part of the price was the fonts, so they were not free.  <BR> <BR>It&#39;s
    funny that if there are 200 fonts on a CD and they&#39;re sold for, say, $300,
    it means they&#39;re being sold, but if there is one software application on the
    same CD, it automatically should mean the fonts are &#34;given away for free&#34;.
    I can&#39;t believe type designers think like that. Does nobody do OEM deals?  <BR>
    <BR>Adam &#34; <BR> <BR> <BR>Adam, generally when fonts are included they&#39;re
    as freebies.  The programme would cost the same with or without them.  They&#39;re
    like bonus with purchase.  Buy one get one free, you know? <BR> <BR>And since
    Illustrator is pretty much the defacto standard for vector art, some people here
    don&#39;t like the fact that Adobe can use it&#39;s powers and flood the market
    with free fonts like that.'
  created: '2004-02-06 05:33:40'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: '&#34;Adam, generally when fonts are included they&#39;re as freebies. The
    programme would cost the same with or without them. They&#39;re like bonus with
    purchase. Buy one get one free, you know? &#34; <BR> <BR>Chris,  <BR> <BR>you&#39;re
    kidding aren&#39;t you? There ain&#39;t no such thing as a free lunch -- it&#39;s
    the first thing you learn at a &#34;elements of economy&#34; class at high school.
    At least, at a Polish high school over here.  <BR> <BR>&#34;Buy one get one free&#34;
    is a marketing gag. If you believe in such nonsense -- well, I&#39;m sorry.  <BR>
    <BR>It is obvious that you pay for both products, not for one. If you paid for
    just one, who pays for the other? Santa Claus? George W. Bush? The company that
    sells you the thing? &#40;If it&#39;s the company, how the heck are they supposed
    to make profit!?&#41; <BR> <BR>The products are bundled. One would actually cost
    half, but nobody will sell you just one. They will always sell you two. It&#39;s
    a sales strategy, nothing else.  <BR> <BR>Do you think that companies that bundle
    fonts don&#39;t pay royalties? And if they do, who do you think pays for these?
    Adobe, out of their mercy? Gimme a break.  <BR> <BR>Adam <BR> <BR>Ps. I suggest:  <BR><a
    href="http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ISBN=0875483100/" target="_blank">http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ISBN=0875483100/</a>
    <BR>'
  created: '2004-02-06 06:17:53'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: With something as intangible as software, fonts especially, you really can
    do a &#34;buy one get one free&#34;.  Which is just what adobe does. <BR> <BR>The
    fonts are included free as an incentive to buy.  And as a way to get the Adobe
    name ingraned into you as the source for type.
  created: '2004-02-06 06:31:19'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: 'But who says that it&#39;s the Illustrator application that you pay for and
    the fonts are free? Maybe it&#39;s vice versa? After all, the Illustrator app
    is just as &#34;intangible&#34; as fonts.  <BR> <BR>What is your judgement based
    on? Do you have any evidence to support your statement or is this just a speculation?  <BR>
    <BR>I could also say: the Illsutrator app is included free as an incentive to
    buy. And it&#39;s the fonts you really pay for, but psshht -- don&#39;t tell anybody.  <BR>
    <BR>If the fonts are &#34;free&#34;, why should any user buy fonts from Adobe
    later? I mean, they&#39;re free, aren&#39;t they!?  <BR> <BR>Adam <BR>'
  created: '2004-02-06 06:39:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'When fonts are bundled with software, they are simply part of the package.
    No part of the package is &#39;free&#39;: you pay for the whole package. The fonts
    are likely discounted in that the whole software package may cost less than it
    would to license the fonts by themselves, but they are no more free than InDesign
    and Photoshop are free when they are bundled with Illustrator in the Creative
    Suite. You are licensing a software package that includes multiple parts.'
  created: '2004-02-06 08:17:10'
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: Hey, I was just trying to clarify what Nick said based on what he seemed to
    be implying.
  created: '2004-02-06 20:37:42'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: Many of the users choose classic typefaces because they lack the hability
    to evaluate type.
  created: '2004-02-08 18:49:22'
- author:
    name: refusenik
    picture: 110075
  body: '&#62; <b><i>Many of the users choose classic typefaces because they lack
    the hability to evaluate type.</i></b> <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t get it, what&#39;s
    wrong with classic typefaces? Is it inconceivable that someone would choose a
    classic typeface just because they like it or because they prefer it to another,
    which happens to be contemporary &#40;which I am assuming is the opposite of how
    you are using the term &#39;classic&#39;&#41;? <BR> <BR>To paraphrase Tina Turner:
    What&#39;s age got to do with it?'
  created: '2004-02-08 21:24:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I think H
  created: '2004-02-08 23:52:03'
- author:
    name: refusenik
    picture: 110075
  body: '&#62; <b><i>many people choose a classic type like Bembo or Gill Sans because
    it is &#39;proven&#39;.</i></b> <BR> <BR>Ok, that makes sense, but what&#39;s
    wrong with it? Isn&#39;t it in many ways a best-case scenario for the casual type
    user to choose proven combinations rather than risk disaster on the thin ice of
    untested type mix-and-match? <BR> <BR>Unless you know exactly what you&#39;re
    doing, that tempting pairing of, say, Wilhelm Klingspor Gotisch and Neutraface
    might just blow the bosses mind. <BR> <BR>&#62; <b><i>Choosing a newer, unproven
    typeface requires a greater degree of typographic discernment.</i></b> <BR> <BR>Of
    course. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m tempted to say that is exactly why this is best left
    to type aficionados with ample time, passion and a professional eye, but then
    that is an awfully elitist point of view and anyway, we all know you can&#39;t
    save anyone from themselves. <BR> <BR>Maybe if folks go for the safe and tested
    option it just shows that they are aware that type is full of pitfalls. That seems
    fair enough.'
  created: '2004-02-09 03:21:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I don&#39;t think there is anything wrong with someone who has the job of
    choosing a typeface, for whatever purpose, falling back on a reliable and proven
    classic in the absence of the necessary experience and discernment required to
    be more daring. It is prudent. But if that person has to choose another typeface
    for another project next week, and again after that, and if choosing a typeface
    becomes part of that person&#39;s job description, e.g. if he is a graphic designer
    or art director, I think there is something wrong with choosing those reliable
    and proven typefaces year after year, for every purpose. It suggests a failure
    to develop discernment and to build on experience.
  created: '2004-02-09 07:12:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: double post
  created: '2004-02-09 07:12:32'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: But John, <BR> <BR> <BR>What then of those fine printers in the past that
    used a &#34;house face&#34; and nothing else. Does that mean their work was poor?
    Or does it show that good tools, if kept sharp, cuts deep? <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-02-09 09:52:30'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: That means that font variety wasn
  created: '2004-02-09 19:29:57'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: H
  created: '2004-02-09 20:15:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: But &#34;mood&#34; is the only justification for making new type. <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>
  created: '2004-02-09 20:20:19'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: That would be difficult to agree with.
  created: '2004-02-10 14:04:56'
- author:
    name: debhall
  body: '&#62;&#62; if he is a graphic designer or art director, I think there is
    something wrong with choosing those reliable and proven typefaces year after year,
    for every purpose. It suggests a failure to develop discernment and to build on
    experience. <BR> <BR>Agreed. The good designers I know keep a &#40;r&#41;evolving
    library comprised of serif, sans serif and decorative typefaces that they work
    with. <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;That means that font variety wasn'
  created: '2004-02-10 19:00:10'
- author:
    name: debhall
  body: Thanks for the lively and informative banter initiated by m-ga
  created: '2004-02-10 19:15:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>But &#34;mood&#34; is the only justification for making new type.</i> <BR>
    <BR>This is probably true for display type, but in my experience most new text
    type development is driven by economic and technical requirements and what might
    be termed &#39;appropriateness to purpose&#39;. We need new types because we keep
    producing new texts, and new kinds of text. This has always been the case, and
    it is worthwhile to map major developments in the history of type design to developments
    in literature. &#39;Mood&#39; may be one of the factors that makes a typeface
    appropriate to a text, but it is certainly not the only one. <BR> <BR>Of course,
    there is also the question of whether one needs to justify the making of new type
    -- or a new chair design, or a new piece of architecture -- other than by variety
    and by the human need to create new forms.
  created: '2004-02-10 19:45:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Yes, &#34;pie&#34; does mean to drop/toss/fling metal type. I myself have
    the dubious honor of having &#34;pied a galley&#34;, where &#34;galley&#34; is
    the tray where you painstakingly arrange your composition, all ready to print...  :-/
    <BR> <BR>&#62; I am concerned about the increasingly restrictive EULAS <BR> <BR>Indeed.
    I guess fascism is in the air. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-02-10 19:48:18'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: After doing some research &#40;only some because there is much more to be
    done&#41; I&#39;ll agree that in general EULAs can be very restrictive. However,
    I&#39;ve also found that the restrictions are all directed at minimizing illegal
    distribution, or rather eliminating it. What exactly do you find to be the most
    restrictive?  <BR> <BR>Maybe these remarks should go back to the original thread.
    <a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/4102/20818.html?1073885888"
    target="_blank">http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/4102/20818.html?1073885888</a>
    <BR> <BR>Deb ... and all ... an article written by myself will appear in the next
    issue of Interrobang &#40;a <a href="http://www.typesociety.org/" target="_blank">SoTA</a>
    publication&#41; on the topic of EULAs, therein you will find the chart put together
    and compiled by Nathan Matteson and myself.
  created: '2004-02-10 19:59:59'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: In regards to this so-called debate on whether or not we should use/appreciate
    &#34;old&#34; type .... I will quote Cicero ... &#34;Not to know what happened
    before you were born is to be forever a child.&#34; ...  <BR> <BR>I can&#39;t
    agree with either side, nor can I disagree. I love seeing the old forms of letters
    just as much as the new. I also love seeing flaws and beauty in both.
  created: '2004-02-10 22:59:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;I ...love seeing flaws and beauty in both. <BR> <BR>Wonderful!'
  created: '2004-02-10 23:29:09'
- author:
    name: lorp
  body: A late addition, but I&#39;d love to see use of &#34;Placebo Sans&#34; &#40;Pr
  created: '2004-02-19 02:16:10'
date: '2004-02-03 22:56:31'
title: Help me spend

---
