---
author:
  name: ER
  picture: 111671
body: "Hey, what do you guys think of this poster, the graphics, and/or any of the
  issues associated with it (the West's neglect of the third world, etc.)  There's
  an election in the U.S. on Tuesday.  Get out and vote!  You might think voting doesn't
  matter, don't know.  I'm really liking this graphic pattern lately:\r\nX\r\nX\r\nX\r\nX\r\nX\r\nX\r\nX\r\nX\r\nX"
comments:
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: ER
  created: '2006-11-04 05:31:59'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "And more Cats?\r\nIn the US, I think <a href=\"http://typophile.com/user/6194\">this</a>
    is more expressive than <a href=\"http://typophile.com/user/13357\">yours</a>?\r\nThank
    you for Exchanging <a href=\"http://www.crAUSwords.com/flowers/WFlowers.htm\">Flowers</a>
    Not Fire\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-04 05:49:40'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Type is weak and I'm not sure what bugs have to do with AIDS so no, I can't
    say I think much of it. Plus the weird chopped off sub-saharan Africa fails to
    connect with the shape that most of us associate with Africa.\r\n\r\nWhat does
    this have to do w/the US election anyway?\r\n\r\nBut yeah, VOTE! Unless you're
    an evangelical in which case, STAY HOME (and deny that you use meth and frequent
    gay prostitutes, GOD I'm loving that story)!"
  created: '2006-11-04 05:53:25'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Patty,\r\nIt's a rotting steak in the shape of Africa.  A continent disintegrating
    in front of our eyes with flies flying around.\r\n\r\nTell me what you really
    think next time!"
  created: '2006-11-04 06:02:41'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Hey, sorry. It's late. I didn't see the steak and also don't see what steak
    has to do with Africa or AIDS.\r\n\r\nMaybe the copy should reference the rotting
    meat. Otherwise it seems like a stretch to me.\r\n\r\nand Aziz - again - sorry
    about what my country did to your country."
  created: '2006-11-04 06:08:40'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Patty is right, the metaphor is mixed and is at odds with the copy. It has
    no call to action, there is a piece of information that on its own does not offer
    any answer (however small and insignificant), nor does it appeal for any assistance.
    The illustration isn't of a <em>rotting</em> steak, it seems fresh, why are there
    bites taken out of the uncooked meat \u2013\_what does that say about aids or
    the number of casualties? Mozambique seems to have a Mickey Mouse shape chopped
    out of it. Some of the copy is superfluous, my feeling is that the headline message
    should reveal its meaning in as few words as necessary, it could read \"\u2026than
    the total casualties in all wars\u2026\", for example.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-11-04 11:00:08'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> and Aziz - again - sorry about what my country did to your country.\r\nWell,
    we have to thank the US for blowing Saddam then bursting him,\r\nbut, we have
    to blame this very US for pulling him out of the hole!\r\n\r\n> Over the next
    decade, AIDS will kill more people in sub-Saharan Africa than the total number
    of casualties lost in all the wars in the 20 century combined.\r\n\r\nOver the
    next decade, Democracy will kill more people in Iraq than the total number of
    casualties lost in all the 3 Gulf wars combined.\r\nSadly, Iraq has been under
    systematic destruction for decades...\r\n\r\nBy the way, did you hear the story
    of the 2 Cats and the Monkey?\r\nThis story was set in my early education. Here
    it goes:\r\nTwo cats found a piece of food , but failed to share it. So, they
    went to the monkey to judge between them...\r\nMore than willing to help, the
    monkey divided the piece of food into 2 parts deliberately making one slightly
    bigger the other.\r\nRaising his hands with the 2 halves, the Monkey said: \r\n\"Look!
    This is not fair, they should be equal\".\r\nSo, he bit the bigger part deliberately
    making it slightly smaller than the other...\r\nAgain he raised his hands with
    the 2 pieces and said:  \r\n\"Look! This is not fair, they should be equal\".\r\nIn
    this way, the Monkey went over the piece of food leaving the 2 cats looking at
    each other.\r\n__________________________________\r\nJustice of the Monkey?!"
  created: '2006-11-04 12:54:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What's the US election connection again?\r\nIs the point to better manage
    the rotting of Africa?\r\n\r\nAnyway:\r\nThe meat thing only works with respect
    to the shape of the continent, nothing else. One would naturally ask: How do I
    save this meat? Aha, by putting it in the fridge! So wait, does that mean we're
    supposed to cryogenically freeze Africa until a cure for AIDS is found? That can't
    be it - that would cost money. The only other thing would be to just eat the whole
    thing up right now, enslaving its population and pillaging its natural resources!
    Wait, we're already doing that...\r\n\r\nAnd the type is way too cold.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nI'm
    sure you can do better, since your heart is in the right place.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-04 15:10:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My meagor 2 cents worth as a non-illustrator: \r\n\r\nI did not see the meat
    or, even now knowing, see it as rotting. The flies just look confusing.  They
    make me think of something like killer bees or malaria or some agricultural problem.
    AIDS doesn't even begin to show without the text. You may need some human imagery--perhaps
    people partially hidden behind the African continent to show they are forgotten
    or diminished from western view.  AIDS strikes me as more personal a problem than
    a clinical looking drawing of a map can portray.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-04 16:22:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Along Patty's sentiment about the election, maybe your copy should read:\r\n\r\n\"Beat
    the Bushes, not the bushman\" ;-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-04 16:24:54'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Tough crowd, tough crowd!\r\n\r\nHey, since I ride the fence between illustration
    and design, I'm always interested in what the two camps think of imagery.  The
    image was selected for the American Illustration Annual book this year.  I put
    the poster up on an illustrator's blog site and it read VERY CLEARLY to everyone,
    and was liked very much.  But, what do illustrator's know anyways.........right?\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the feedback, I like hearing other points of views.  You can check out what
    artists thought about the image by going here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.drawger.com/edel/?section=comments&article_id=1660"
  created: '2006-11-04 17:58:44'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "I got the meat, I got the flies, but the type didn't read as one single coherent
    sentence to me. I would change the copy, and make it refer to the rotting meat
    analogy.\r\n\r\nRight now it looks like \"Hey, that's a picture of Africa... and
    wait, it's a steak too\" when it should be \"Hey, that's a picture of a steak...
    and wait, it's in the shape of Africa\".\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2006-11-04 18:09:15'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: I got the steak first thing. Type second. Flies last. Maybe swing the meat
    just a little more to the steak side, play down the lines between countries?
  created: '2006-11-04 20:22:37'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "I think it's a poignent illustration devoid of humanity, it's also a little
    stale. This guy got it right...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/53258174_6030.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/clear_spacer_3598.gif]\r\n...yours
    smacks of sarcasm.\r\n\r\n__________\r\nHiro"
  created: '2006-11-04 21:36:21'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Vultures. Instead of flies.\r\nand give me your fokking money!"
  created: '2006-11-04 22:03:44'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "\"smacks of sarcasm\"??\r\n\r\nWow...really tough crowd, tough crowd.  No
    respect....no respect."
  created: '2006-11-04 22:09:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Illustrators? Are they like photographers? \"Nice color & composition!\"\r\n<cite>Content</cite>
    anyone?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-04 22:13:03'
- author:
    name: An Accident
  body: "But one of the comments on that blog entry you link to call you a \"genius\".
    It's no wonder you find Typophile a \"tough crowd\" when you don't get gushing
    hyperbole like that.\r\nNone of the comments on that blog entry actually explained
    what it was you think they read VERY CLEARLY. They said they liked it and thought
    it was clever but neither you nor they have explained why it is 'clever' or relevant
    to AIDS in Africa (as opposed to any of Africa's other problems).\r\n\r\nEven
    <em>if</em> the rotting steak image is perfect for the poster/campaign, (I agree
    with timd that) the meat in your illustration looks fresh (etc. etc. heckle heckle
    heckle).\r\n\r\nOne of the largest problems in the areas of Africa struggling
    most with the AIDS epidemic is a lack of (sex) education \u2013\_there is still
    a common belief that sex with a virgin will cure a man of HIV. Once that problem
    is addressed, <em>then</em> they can start to think about how they would like
    their steak.\r\n\r\nI really wish I liked the poster just so I could leave a post
    that said.\r\n\r\n\"Well Done\"."
  created: '2006-11-04 22:54:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Honest opinion - I think the meat and flies are well executed, but taking
    the three 'bites' out of the meat makes it less Africa like. Also it's not obviously
    rotting - the flies would be attracted to a nice fresh cut of meat too, no? Type
    is not particularly interesting - seems odd that it was posted to typophile and
    the \"general discussion\" area in particular. \r\n\r\nIn the end I think it's
    an idea/metaphor that almost, but doesn't quite work, and you're forcing it. You
    could keep plugging away but my advice would be to ditch it and come up with a
    better idea. Back to the drawing board I think. ;-)  \r\n"
  created: '2006-11-04 23:07:31'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Hiro, I think you should learn how to spell poignant before you unleash the
    word in forums like this one. Also look up in a dictionary how it might relate
    to humanity.\r\n\r\nHrant, in terms of content, illustrators are generally <em>
    not </em> like photographers and I'm sure you're just being as provocative as
    usual. \r\n\r\nER it doesn't suprise me at all that this image reads clearly to
    an illustration crowd and not-at-all to a typography forum, so I find myself agreeing
    with Simon. Although I like the poster visually and it's metaphors 'read' to me,
    in spite of it's selection for the Illustration Annual (congratulations), the
    ideas behind it are incorrect. If the target of your poster was say, food hygiene
    rather than sexual behaviour, you'd have nailed it.\r\n\r\nAs someone looking
    on from outside the US, I admire your call to vote."
  created: '2006-11-04 23:31:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ben, I'm glad to hear you have a problem with photographers too...  :-)\r\n\r\nBut
    come on, promoting democracy isn't exactly\r\ncounter-culture these days. Even
    the prez does it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-04 23:45:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Edel, you might be interested in looking at the posters of Christos Tsolerides,
    who used to posted on Typophile. I thought he was able to use type and illustration
    together in a really strong way. \r\n\r\nHere is one of the links: http://typophile.com/node/4982\r\n\r\nIf
    you click on his name and then 'track' you will see a bunch of others. \r\n\r\nI
    think your illustration here is striking and well executed, but could be better
    focused, and the typography stronger. "
  created: '2006-11-04 23:53:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, thanks for reminding me/us of Christos. Anybody interested in typographically-sophisticated
    poster design would do well to hit \"track\" on his profile and peruse the hell
    out of his threads.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-05 00:20:10'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Just dropped off my ballot at the postoffice.\r\n\r\nEdel, I think your work
    is excellent. Thoughtful and well executed. This is why you are getting the big
    covers and recognition.\r\n\r\nHowever, in this case, i think you have a good
    idea but the execution is not on par with your other work. I will try to make
    my criticism as constructive as possible.\r\n\r\n1. Type. It doesn't feel integrated
    with the concept. Just words typed on a page. I was looking at the <a href=\"http://www.drawger.com/edel/?section=gallery&gallery_id=181&image_id=3584\">Defiance</a>
    poster on your site. Much better. The words fit in the soldiers ribbons and match
    the style. Somehow the type should be more integrated in the concept here, or
    should just be a caption below it. The picture should have it's own impact. It's
    a little bit of show and tell as is.\r\n\r\n2. Empahsis. All the elements are
    emphasized the same. OK africa is red. But type, flies and Africa are all flat.
    Maybe what I'm saying is that they're all at the same depth of field. I picture
    the flies closer and farther to the viewer. Maybe. It could just use more graphic
    impact. Are you emphasising the rotting meat or the nasty flies all over it? Neither
    at the moment.\r\n\r\n3. The steak. I think the shape of africa is iconic enough
    without country lines. They distract from the rotteness of the meat.  Maybe simplify
    the continent shape (no bites?) and use the space to make it more rotten and meaty
    (introduce grey into the meat/blood juice?).\r\n\r\n4. Style. It seems too sterile
    to be rotting. I think it needs more texture like some of your other pieces.\r\n\r\nThanks
    for your involvement at typophile.\r\nHope that was helpful.\r\n\r\nRandy"
  created: '2006-11-05 01:16:16'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "ER, you already have my respect. Your graphic style has attitude and your
    work has a nice edge to it.\r\n\r\nBen_zene, go away - you're making me drowsy.\r\n\r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro
    \ \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-05 01:17:08'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: ditto what randy said. he always has a way of putting everything together
    so succicintly. i think the main problem i have is that you can't really tell
    the steak is rotting, which your concept is really based on. this has to do with
    the color and the apparent firmness of the steak. if it were me the color would
    be a wash of deep red with some grey-green tainting portions of it and the steak
    looking considerably more mushy. but then again, i ain't no illustrator...
  created: '2006-11-05 01:30:14'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Side note to Patty:\r\n\r\nIt is unfortunate (or perhaps fortunate depending
    on your point of view) when a Christian leader is exposed to be a hypocrite of
    the highest order. It is my belief that we are all hypocrites in the deepest sense.
    Wherever you set the bar, you can never get it low enough to clear it yourself.
    Our own words are more than enough to condemn us. I know this is true in my case.\r\n\r\nRandy"
  created: '2006-11-05 01:43:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">we are all hypocrites in the deepest sense\r\n\r\nHuh?\r\n\r\nA gay-bashing
    minister who frequented a gay prostitute while gay-bashing? \r\n\r\nDoesn't he
    make the most of us look like triflers in hypocracy? \r\n\r\nI mean that guy is
    a champion. A winner of this year's Nobel prize for hypocracy--and he had a lot
    of competition! A special medal for lying to the cameras. A pulpit Pulitzer for
    pretentiousness in Church. A special citation for deviousness before the masses.
    \r\n\r\nI'd better stop. Like Patty, I'm enjoying this way too much. It's a sin.
    But not hypocracy. "
  created: '2006-11-05 02:06:31'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: We are well on our way to 511 posts.  Remember my Communication Arts cover
    from back in May?  Keep it coming.... let's try to top that one.
  created: '2006-11-05 02:13:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "No sweat Edel, in a day or 2 you will be at the top of the Hot list.  Weekends
    are slow though but it will pick up on Monday :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-05 02:24:42'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite>Hiro, I think you should learn how to spell poignant before you unleash
    the word in forums like this one</cite>\r\nBen: It looks like you've got a spelling
    problem too:<cite> in spite of it\u2019s selection for the Illustration </cite>
    I think you mean \"its\" selection."
  created: '2006-11-05 02:35:51'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Hey, Chris, well, let me try something.  This was at the point with the CA
    cover where I tried to explain my work.  It then set off a historic chain reaction
    of events.\r\n\r\nBy the way, Chris, hrant, Hunt, Lore, West, all veterans of
    the CA cover thread - the image has gotten traction.  It's in the current CA design
    annual.  Yes, sounds corrupt, but the jury was neutral I suppose.  Nine judges
    from Design firms and such around the world picked it as one of the best images
    of the year.  But, what do they know...\r\n\r\nGetting back to this one.  Thanks
    (most of you) for all the advice.  That feller Randy is one cool cat.  Gives some
    very nice thought out info.  Hrant is one cool cat too, in some other ways (i.e.
    sticking to the script) I kid Hrant, chill.\r\n\r\nAbout the image, my thinking.
    \ I'm tired of little red ribbons and soft statements about helping this and that.
    \ I wanted something raw to get people's attention.  I wanted it to be some street
    thing, not all sophisticated and fancy typework and all.  I felt like an over
    designed poster just didn't work for this.  I didn't want to render a grey steak
    or juice or whatever.  Just a red flat silk-screened image. bam. there it is.
    \ I'm tired of fanciness.  While we sit here on a forum discussing x-heights,
    Africa is rotting away and disappearing, why be all fancy with the cool fonts
    and the this and the that?  Just put an image down and stick some text on it.
    period.\r\n\r\nBring it on....\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-05 02:44:29'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: Oh, and if you know what font I used, tell me, cause I was angry when I did
    that and I have no clue.
  created: '2006-11-05 02:47:15'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Looks like Futura to me.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2006-11-05 02:52:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">We are well on our way to 511 posts.\r\n\r\nUnless someone mentions Fidel's
    Rolex, I think this will hit 45 and be done."
  created: '2006-11-05 02:59:12'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: It was Che who was rumored to have a Rolex, not Fidel.  Does anybody check
    their facts here before just typing something in?
  created: '2006-11-05 03:02:37'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Fair cop, Lore; hoisted by my own petard. Apostrophes aren't spelling so
    much as punctuation, but I won't quibble.\r\n\r\nHiro, you're just backtracking
    totally from that earlier post. Either you mean to crit the guy (and not in a
    constructive way) or you mean to praise him (faintly); which is it?\r\n\r\nAs
    for <em>you have a problem with photographers too</em>. Heh. I've briefed both
    kinds, but I've never yet had a photographer get all uh, conceptual on me. They're
    generally happier just pointing and clicking. Illustrators (in my experience)
    agonise about narrative content, the 'truth of the medium' and contextual reading,
    so yes, I think they actually do more in terms of content.\r\n\r\nWhat your president
    promotes is not what the rest of us call democracy. If you can't vote, riot."
  created: '2006-11-05 03:07:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I wanted it to be some street thing, not all sophisticated and fancy typework
    and all.\r\n\r\nOk, NOW you've done it, Edel.\r\n\r\nWhat a lame excuse for sloppy
    typography.\r\n\r\nFutura is a very sophisticated font. If you wanted 'street'
    you should have spray painted it or hand written it with chalk. \r\n\r\nAnd how
    is centering the text--which makes it less readable here--very 'street'? And does
    that irregular leading make it agressively 'street'? And does the type enhance
    the impact of the illustration, or just wander around? \r\n\r\nOh, and are street
    thugs able to draw illustrations for the New York Times? Is your thoughtful concept
    and polished drawing very 'street'? Give me a break."
  created: '2006-11-05 03:09:42'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite>Remember my Communication Arts cover from back in May?</cite>\r\nBut
    Edel darling...how could we possibly forget? \r\nCheck out  http://typophile.com/node/28873"
  created: '2006-11-05 03:09:42'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>what do you guys think of this poster</em>\r\n\r\n<em>the image has gotten
    traction. It\u2019s in the current CA design annual. Yes, sounds corrupt, but
    the jury was neutral I suppose. Nine judges from Design firms and such around
    the world picked it as one of the best images of the year. But, what do they know\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nwell
    remind me not to offer criticism next time you ask what <em>we</em> think..."
  created: '2006-11-05 03:13:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If you can\u2019t vote, riot.\r\n\r\nIf you can vote, don't.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-05 03:17:26'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Mr. Hunt,\r\nYou are mixing images there sir.  The \"poster\" is this thread,
    which I definitely asked your input on.\r\n\r\nThe Che cover is a different matter
    and it is what I spoke about being in an annual.  I did not ask for input on that
    image myself.  It was put up by crazy machine gun cat man Eric West.\r\n\r\nYou're
    cutting and pasting text, and confusing things.  \"this poster\" and \"image in
    design annual\" are two separate images.  Got it?  Word jumbling is annoying.\r\n\r\nI
    am always interested on what you guys have to say about anything I put up.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-05 03:27:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: So what brand of watch does Fidel wear?
  created: '2006-11-05 03:31:46'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>You\u2019re cutting and pasting text, and confusing things.</em>\r\n\r\nthat's
    what i get for scanning. honest mistake. all apologies. back to your regularly
    scheduled banter..."
  created: '2006-11-05 03:41:22'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: 'Fidel''s watch?  Probably the one he took from my father when we left the
    country.  I''ll have to ask my dad what brand it was.  '
  created: '2006-11-05 03:43:53'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: ">>\"Illustrators? Are they like photographers? \u201CNice color & composition!
    Content anyone?\"\r\n\r\nHrant, if you knew anything about illustration at all,
    you'd realize we spend most of our time thinking about content.\r\n\r\nThere's
    a lot of anger at other artistic fields here at Typophile guys.  Except for \"Randy\",
    he's cool.  And Paul Hunt, nice hat, always steady."
  created: '2006-11-05 03:54:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">There\u2019s a lot of anger at other artistic fields here at Typophile guys\r\n\r\nEdel,
    Hrant is one of a kind. It would be wildly off the mark to assume that other regulars
    here share his views on any subject. \r\n\r\nI love good illustration, including
    yours. But this one has problems..."
  created: '2006-11-05 04:18:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">There\u2019s a lot of anger at other artistic fields here at Typophile guys.
    \r\n\r\nLooking for anger - came to the wrong place. Try posting the picture on
    a vegan blog or a butchers forum. ;-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-05 04:35:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ben, Edel: So I guess my question mark(s) counted for nothing. Illustration
    involves making things yourself, so naturally one needs that rare commodity, Thought.
    But you'd be forgiven for thinking otherwise upon reading that blog. On the other
    hand I guess <cite>Typophile</cite> is one of a kind: we socialize lucha libre
    style.\r\n\r\nAnger, at artists? I for one cannot get angry at children.\r\nPhotography,
    art? If you think about it, it's entertainment.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-05 04:38:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Fidel's watch: don't know the brand, but it seems to be\r\nrunning on Energizer.
    May he outlive another 9 puppets.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-05 04:43:21'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: Hrant, thanks for making my point about needless hurt and anger on this site.  You
    always come through.
  created: '2006-11-05 05:14:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Don't mention it. Thanks for pointing out needless blogs.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-05 05:23:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "It seems as if I was right all along... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.rapo.com/icrgallery/fidel_castro.htm
    \r\n\r\nNever listen to a iPod using cat!\r\n\r\nStill seems to be ticking...
    \r\n\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/3446069.stm\r\n\r\nAnd you can even
    buy your own... \r\n\r\nhttp://cgi.ebay.com/FIDEL-CASTRO-WATCH-CUBA-NR-SILVER-Pw01_W0QQitemZ130042689985QQihZ003QQcategoryZ4107QQssPageNameZWDVWQQrdZ1QQcmdZViewItem\r\n\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si"
  created: '2006-11-05 05:29:25'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Hey, I checked out Christos' posters.  Very nice work.  Some are better than
    others, etc.  But, jeez, speaking of sugary praise, here's Hrant on one post:\r\n\r\n>>\"The
    great Greek strikes again! Really nice stuff. Each one is a winner to me.  But
    my fav has got to be A1.\"\r\n\r\nIs that the same Hrant or did somebody hijack
    his account?  You could have had a little more Lucha Libre to that man.  That's
    so sweeeeeet.  Like candy.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-05 06:14:49'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> One of the largest problems in the areas of Africa struggling most with
    the AIDS > epidemic is a lack of (sex) education \u2013 there is still a common
    belief that sex with > a virgin will cure a man of HIV...\r\n\r\nVirgin Z.E.B.R.A.\r\nBy
    the way, why not try using Zebra Font?\r\nBut be careful not to transgress the
    Zebra Crossing!"
  created: '2006-11-05 07:30:54'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">ride the fence between illustration and design\r\nWhat is illustration without
    design?\r\n\r\n>it read VERY CLEARLY to everyone\r\nIt read clearly to me, unfortunately
    more than one clear message, one in text and one that Africa is a juicy steak
    ready for carving up (btw many of the responses didn't seem to get the rotting
    concept). Subsequently I put the flies and steak down to some reference to the
    tsetse fly.\r\nBoth are serious issues for Africa as well, it seemed to me that
    the concept was ambiguous. Your response that the steak is rotting isn't apparent
    and if it was would it really illustrate the Aids epidemic?\r\n\r\n>Just put an
    image down and stick some text on it. period.\r\nYes, that shows the due respect
    the issue deserves.\r\n\r\n>Still seems to be ticking\u2026\r\nSi everyone knows
    that the BBC aren't reliable <em>(see the CA cover thread)</em>.\r\n\r\nNot original
    but still effective\r\nhttp://i5.photobucket.com/albums/y186/secretdubai/death_head_africa.jpg\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-11-05 12:26:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Edel, that's the thing: when I'm negative, I mean it; and when I'm\r\npositive,
    I mean it. If that's hard to swallow, watch US television news.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-05 14:20:33'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Another thing I love about Typophile.  When people download your work and
    screw it up royally!  \r\nWhat's that thing that timd just put up?  Everybody
    loves that, right?\r\n\r\nRE: \"needless blogs\" - Hrant, anything, or anyone,
    that doesn't agree with you is \"needless\"."
  created: '2006-11-05 21:55:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> When people download your work and screw it up royally!\r\n\r\nThat's typical
    artist's anger. Not designer's.\r\n\r\nAnything, or anyone who always agrees with
    everybody is needless.\r\n\r\nAssuming you have now acquired a self-doubt concerning
    your piece,\r\nwhat you should do now is go back to that blog and tell them to
    get a grip.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-05 23:57:52'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Nope, no self-doubt about the piece, just figuring out that typographers
    and illustrators view things very differently.  Illustrators \"get\" things that
    typographers don't, and vice versa.\r\n\r\nHrant, you still didn't comment on
    timd's masterpiece up there."
  created: '2006-11-06 00:23:35'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Another thing I love about Typophile. When people download your work and
    screw it up royally!\r\n\r\nWhere's the EULA? "
  created: '2006-11-06 00:45:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Another thing I love about Typophile. When people download your work and
    screw it up royally!\"\r\n\r\nThat is nothing compared to what clents do :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-06 01:08:39'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Chris,\r\nIs it crazy of me to say that here?  \r\nI don't know, seems like
    common courtesy that some dude that doesn't know me should ask \"hey, is it o.k.
    if I take apart your work and slap some dumb tagline on it?\", BEFORE they do
    it?"
  created: '2006-11-06 01:37:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Tell us what we don't get, but do tell the groupies too.\r\n\r\nBut maybe
    \"self-doubt\" wasn't the best term. What I meant was that if you [now] believe
    that your piece doesn't deserve boundless adulation (eg \"genius\"), tell them
    you think they need to think/try harder. Yes, you will have fewer fans, but much
    more loyal and useful ones.\r\n\r\n> you still didn\u2019t comment on timd\u2019s
    masterpiece up there.\r\n\r\nI'm busy.\r\n\r\nEdel, think about why unsolicited
    third-party mods piss you off.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-06 01:53:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Let's put it this way, I would never do that.  I think it is fair to give
    you an honest crit but I don't feel it is either in good taste or even helpful
    to you to reconstruct your work without you're asking.  Even if what he had done
    was fabulous, I don't think it should be done. The purpose of a crit is to give
    the person a dialogue where they question what was done and even act as devils
    advocate to get you to see your own work more critically and with fresh eyes.
    It is up to you to then take or leave whatever is said and go back and do the
    work yourself.  It is still your work, not ours.  Even if we don't like your final
    product, above all, it is your work and that authorship should be respected. I
    don't think TimD intended any disrespect--he surely thought he was helping.  I
    just think his judgement was not what it should have been at that moment. It takes
    guts to put your stuff up on the web for thousands of strangers. You will however,
    not be able to control the input of others. The odds are you will get at least
    one response that is out of bounds.\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-06 02:03:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> It is still your work, not ours.\r\n\r\nIt's not so simple.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-06 02:13:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "While in design school, we got weekly crits by both our peers and our faculty.
    \ It was a different breed of cat then.  Everyone had a stake in the process and
    your peers had the same project up on the wall too. There was discussion, even
    argument about approach as well as execution.  Sometimes there was laughter, sometimes
    applause, and sometimes tears. We all took our lumps and went on to do better,
    bruised egos and all.\r\nThis is the web though and we are all faceless and have
    no stake in your project.  As fellow designers, we should try our best to be helpful
    though. You did get some other comments to think about though. Perhaps there is
    more to be gained from looking at the better aimed comments than their is from
    dwelling too long on the stray bullet? \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-06 02:20:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "No one said it was simple.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-06 02:21:48'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Hrant,\r\nYes \"genius\" is just laughable, please. But, you know, I'll take
    it. :)  \r\n\r\nFYI, the folks on that blog are not groupies.  They are some of
    the top artists in the field.  It's as if Hoefler, or one of those big type people
    were here and said, \"hey Hrant, that's genius\".  I think you would take it,
    no?\r\n\r\nI don't think anything I do deserves boundless adulation.  I wake up
    and say I suck.  I do a drawing and think it sucks.  I'm constantly thinking over
    things.\r\n\r\nThis Africa poster is something personal I did.  It's not like
    a poster for a cigarette company or something for god's sakes.  For someone to
    say it's \"sarcastic\" is kinda lame to me.  I don't know how many of the people
    commenting here have even thought of the issue or try to tackle it in a design.
    \ If they have, then I'd like to see it.  It's not an easy one.\r\n\r\nOn doing
    things to people's work, I've been here on many occasions.  Have never even thought
    about it.  I think written suggestions are enough, everyone's fairly smart here.
    \ If you want to make it clearer then there's a little contact thing where you
    can ask someone if it's o.k.  But, that's just me.\r\n\r\nI like your input, I'm
    trying to get better at communicating to everyone, not just artists.  I'll probably
    put something new up soon, would like to hear what you think about it."
  created: '2006-11-06 02:33:46'
- author:
    name: ycole
    picture: 111967
  body: "if you can't take criticism you won't make it in this business. that should
    be easy enough to understand. i agree that the anonimity of online forums can
    allow people to get out of hand but that's a risk you have to take in posting
    your work online, as has been said.\r\n\r\nas for the piece itself, using a steak
    for symbolism seems like a bad idea. you're opening up such a huge visceral ballpark
    here and i think the message isn't going to really be felt for most people. for
    something like AIDS you want the message to be simple yet powerful. your illustration
    is just too ripe for misinterpetation. many of the responses so far are examples
    of it being misinterpreted. it's up to the designer to decide how many people
    'don't get' their design before they have to trash it.\r\n\r\nlastly, it might
    even be offensive to some. there are still people living in africa, really we
    should be focusing on those still alive and how we can help them (and educate
    them - as has been said) rather than the incredibly depressing and immobilizing
    shadow of death that has been cast over the whole thing. you don't really think
    about helping a rotting steak with flies coming out of it. rather, you run away
    from it pinching your nose.\r\n\r\n(hope this was helpful even if it was harsh)"
  created: '2006-11-06 02:37:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "When somebody calls me a genius (it has happened) I immediately correct him.\r\n\r\n>
    I think written suggestions are enough\r\n\r\nI think that anybody making a suggestion
    about something (via verbal, visual, gestural, or any means) becomes part of its
    future. And anybody asking for suggestions should be open to them in whatever
    form they come.\r\n\r\nI don't think putting the visual on a pedestal is a good
    idea. Hopefully the things we make aren't just pretty pictures - they have meanings,
    and meanings that cannot be separated from ourselves. The visual is just a layer
    of language, not a goal.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-06 04:17:39'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> This Africa poster is something personal I did.\r\n\r\nIf the client is
    happy all is good. \r\n\r\nBut I can't help but think if there were a real client
    (say a charity promoting AIDS awareness) then you would have recieved the same
    feedback as some of us were giving? "
  created: '2006-11-06 04:41:41'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Hrant, thanks.\r\n\r\nMan, you are a genius!"
  created: '2006-11-06 05:04:31'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Hrant,\r\nThere's someone here at Typophile that's heaping too much praise
    on me man.  Go put them in their place:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/29313"
  created: '2006-11-06 05:09:01'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: ER
  created: '2006-11-06 05:09:14'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Edel, I was trying to explain what messages I was getting from your illustration,
    and you are right I don't take people's work apart and reassemble them in the
    Critique forum but you had posted in the General Discussions forum and I had not
    noticed that it had been moved, I have deleted the images and put it into words,
    I also apologize \u2013 it was a lazy response to your search for opinions, however
    the point still remains you have used an ill-thought out image to represent a
    serious problem and that image could have been used, with only a change to the
    copy, to represent two other serious problems for Africa.\r\nQuite frankly I am
    angered by the line you used \"Just put an image down and stick some text on it.
    period.\", I don't suppose you will be willing to go back and respond to that
    or any other points and I understand that, after all you hadn't responded before
    to other questions.\r\nAs an experiment try removing the copy from your image
    and show it to a new audience ask them what they think it represents, I really
    doubt that Aids will be picked.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-11-06 08:55:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The message you are getting here from those who love type is that the approach
    of 'just stick text on it' does not do justice to your fine illustration skills.
    You can choose to be dismissive. But as *every* person here is giving you the
    same message on the use of type, wouldn't it be wiser to devote some time to further
    study of typography? (Eg., Bringhurst's great book, if you don't know it.)\r\n\r\nHere's
    a story. Gershwin at the height of his popularity asked Stravinsky whether he
    could teach him orchestration. --At this point he had written 'Rhapsody in Blue',
    but had to have it orchestrated by someone else. Stravinsky asked him how much
    money he earned last year. Gershwin told him and Stravinsky laughed and said,
    \"I should be studying with you.\" Gershwin was serious in his question, though,
    and did find a teacher. As a result he was able to write his greatest work, 'Porgy
    and Bess'. "
  created: '2006-11-06 13:47:47'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "timd,\r\nThe \"questions\" come hard and fast, I try to get to what I have
    time for.  Sometimes, I am too busy shaking my head to answer them.  I am convinced
    that typographers and artists see things way differently.  Type folks are like
    architects, a lot of thought, breaking things down to minute detail.  An example
    from TimD, about the drawing of Africa right here:\r\n\r\n>>\"Mozambique seems
    to have a Mickey Mouse shape chopped out of it.\"\r\n\r\n(Huh?  Shaking of head)\r\n\r\nI
    don't answer sometimes, because that thing I just said about Typographers vs.
    artists will get about 10 typographers on my behind immediately. \r\n\r\nI am
    not dismissive, I'm just sitting back and seeing how you guys think.  You want
    a 1+1=2 kind of solution to everything.  Artists throw things together to provoke
    thought and discussion.  This image was not a \"hey, here's the problem, give
    money here\" type of thing.  It was meant to provoke some of the discussion that's
    happening right here.\r\n\r\nAbout this:\r\n>>\"Quite frankly I am angered by
    the line you used \u201CJust put an image down and stick some text on it. period.\u201D\r\n\r\nIf
    you look at the work of a lot of artists, someone like Basquiat, or Barbara Kruger
    for example, it's part of what artists do.  Provoke, instigate discussion, etc.
    \ No reason to be angry, it's part of the way I work, called \"emotion\".  Sometimes,
    I work on an idea that comes to me within 10 seconds time, and that's it.  \r\n\r\n\"Randy\"
    had some good points, I'll think about them.  I wanted the type to just be read
    as a fact, like a document.  I didn't want it overly designed, that was my point
    with the type.  I see people have problems with the type, I understand.  I mean,
    it's \"Typophile\", right?  \r\nI wanted the poster image to be flat, not overly
    rendered, and I wanted all the elements to be on the same plane.  I feel silkscreened
    posters work very well like that.  Just flat, simple, like a document.  Pasted
    up on a wall somewhere is how I pictured it, something that might stop someone
    walking by and make them think.  Not give answers, just, make them stop and think.\r\n\r\nIf
    anything is off or anyone is insulted or anything, well, yeah, you should be angry,
    but not at me.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-06 15:36:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I didn\u2019t want it overly designed, that was my point with the type.\r\n\r\nWhat
    does 'overly designed' mean? If you mean some self-consciously trendy or elegant
    look, I agree that that wouldn't be appropriate. But I don't think that that is
    what people here are advocating at all. \r\n\r\nWhat we are talking about is *appropriately*
    designed, and serving the purpose is what good design is all about. \r\n\r\nI
    may be wrong, but I get the feeling from what you write that you think that it
    is not worth putting much thought into typography--choosing an appropriate typeface
    for the task, and making it well sized and laid out in relation to the illustration.
    If that is in fact your view, I'm not angry at all. I just think you are mistaken,
    and weakening your end product. "
  created: '2006-11-06 16:14:51'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "I agree with William. Also on the point he made on a previous post (which
    wasn't commented by Edel): the composition doesn't feel \"street\" at all. Not
    a bit.\r\n\r\nOn the issue of Tim \"screwing up\" your piece: instead of going
    nuts with the whole community (and dragging the issue to other threads) you could
    have addressed him directly by simply asking him not to interfere in your pieces.
    Instead of calling him \"some dude I don't even know\" you could have checked
    Tim's history, you would have noticed that he's someone who does (and has done
    for a while) a fantastic job at Typophile, he's always willing to help, always
    pleasant and always consistent. Personally I would have been delighted if Tim
    had \"screwed up\" one of my pieces but there you go...\r\n\r\nYou mentioned that
    you were angry when you did the poster. Well, I fail to feel your \"anger\" and
    I don't think this is due to my inability to feel outrage at issues related to
    Africa. I think this is due to the ineffectiveness of the message. If you really
    want people to feel \"anger\", you'll have to try harder. I mentioned replacing
    the flies with vultures for example because vultures are so easy to associate
    with decay and most importantly with waiting (waiting for someone to die to take
    advantage). \r\n\r\nVultures are sinister creatures. Flies are just irritating.\r\n\r\nThen
    I found this photo. Now <cite>that</cite> makes me angry. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/abutre_5819.jpg]\r\nLike
    Tim I was bothered by your comment \"Just put an image down and stick some text
    on it. period.\u201D I really think the issue deserves a lot more commitment.
    Both: the issue of type and the issue of AIDS in Africa.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-06 16:31:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Edel,\r\nI don't think the type is the issue for me--maybe because I spent
    45 years as a graphic designer and only 2 as a type designer.  I don't even see
    the type as anything but a caption in the simplest use of the term. What I am
    trying to see is the image of a nice clean looking piece of steak as a provocative
    inquiry into Africa's AIDS problem. If I take the image of the map of Africa and
    raw steak, I get the image of wild animals fighting over raw meat. It also looks
    like one of those info-graphics you see in USA today where they might be showing
    the amount of meat produced in Uganda vs the amount of meat produced in The Gambia.
    Putting the flies in does not say to me rotting, it might say \"there is a fly
    in the ointment\" to indicate something is wrong but I don't see AIDS at all.
    The salient factor for me is that Africa has no oil and is a minimal purchaser
    of goods from developed nations. (They don't need a Lexus or a tanning salon,
    or a collection of Guy Lombardo's greatest hits, they need basic stuff and medical
    attention.) So the governments of developed nations of the world ignore Africa
    much more than the Middle East even if there have been systematic murders of thousands
    of people in Africa for years. We ignore African poverty, African genocide, as
    well as African health concerns including AIDS. \r\nEdel, who is angry at you?
    Not me, not anyone else here that I know of. You are right, we have different
    thinking patterns but so what, we can then learn more from each-other. I tend
    to think: audience, purpose, message, and then desired response wanted from the
    audience.  After that I think image.  Maybe you think image first? I don't know.
    \ I would be curious how you apprach a job problem as opposed to a \"for yourself\"
    problem? Is there a difference for you?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-06 16:32:10'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "<cite>There\u2019s someone here at Typophile that\u2019s heaping too much
    praise on me man.</cite>\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nPart of what's going on here is a problem
    with the medium. It takes time to communicate the tone of what you're saying correctly
    in a post (email also). So a quick burst can seem out of context, or angry or
    dismissive etc (and sometimes it is!). I don't know that it can be avoided. As
    with any advice given, you discover that you trust some and keep your salt handy
    for others. Hopefully all (or most) is thought provoking.\r\n\r\nI find my wife
    is the best critic for me. She knows my thought process, but her angle is much
    closer to client than designer. And when she hammers my work I can't get too upset
    because tomorrow we are still married :-) And also, she is usually right.\r\n\r\nWRT
    the AIDS poster: I really enjoyed the Wilco sketches on your site. I'd be curious
    about what your sketches might look like here. I know you said this poster was
    done by gut feel so there may not be any ... \r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2006-11-06 16:39:22'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I don\u2019t answer sometimes, because that thing I just said about Typographers
    vs. artists will get about 10 typographers on my behind immediately. \r\n\r\nThere's
    an Arabic saying which roughly translated reads \"if you play with the kittens
    you're going to get scratched.\""
  created: '2006-11-06 16:52:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\u201Cif you play with the kittens you\u2019re going to get scratched.\u201D\r\n\r\nNow
    that is an expression for a guy with a cat as an avatar :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-06 16:55:04'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Randy,\r\nDon't bring our wives into this.  :-)\r\n\r\nI'll get into all
    of this more later, just have stuff to do.  But, for now, keep the wives out!"
  created: '2006-11-06 16:58:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"But, for now, keep the wives out!\"\r\n\r\nAs if you can :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-06 17:01:33'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Chris,\r\nJust hesitant to get into arguments that go in endless circles.
    \ Remember?\r\n\r\nBut, for now, keep the wives out!"
  created: '2006-11-06 17:02:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the type as anything but a caption in the simplest use of the term.\r\n\r\nChris,
    I think because of the prominence of the type in this particular design that it
    is more than a caption. It asserts itself, and so needs more work to work well
    IMHO. "
  created: '2006-11-06 17:03:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Type folks are like architects\r\n\r\nPlease, no, not that!\r\n\r\n> Artists
    throw things together to provoke thought and discussion.\r\n\r\nWhile we use thought
    and discussion to provoke artists to throw things.\r\n\r\n> It was meant to provoke
    some of the discussion that\u2019s happening right here.\r\n\r\nSure, great.\r\nJust
    make sure not to actually submit that illustration anywhere.\r\n\r\n> \u201CRandy\u201D\r\n\r\nYes,
    as if that's his real name.\r\n(What's with the quotes dude?)\r\n\r\n> I didn\u2019t
    want it overly designed\r\n\r\nYou can only over-design the surface.\r\nYou can't
    ever over-design the depth, because it's bottomless.\r\n\r\n> Anger\r\n> \u201CJust
    put an image down and stick some text on it. period.\u201D\r\n\r\nThese are manifestations
    of an artist: a person mainly intending to express himself.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-06 17:12:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Just hesitant to get into arguments that go in endless circles. Remember?\"\r\n\r\nThat
    is why I was laughing. I have been in a few of those endless circles :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-06 17:20:12'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Hrant,\r\nI know you have problems with the individual.  Yes.  The individual
    is the source of all problems in the world.  We've been there.\r\n\r\nThe world
    is made up of individuals, expressing themselves, it's how I like it.  I love
    manifestations of individual artists expressing themselves.  We differ on that
    A LOT.  Been there, I know.\r\n\r\nSorry about the quotes, I don't know Randy.
    \ I'll take them out!\r\n\r\n>>\"Just make sure not to actually submit that illustration
    anywhere.\"\r\n\r\nThat illustration WAS submitted and accepted as one of the
    best pieces of the year into the American Illustration Annual.  Probably the top
    illustration book.  Judged by a pretty decent panel I would say.\r\n\r\nI'll take
    your recommendations.  Like I said, I'm trying to figure out the differences between
    these fields.  I'm trying to bring them together.  Why one field thinks it's great,
    and another thinks it's garbage.  \r\n\r\nThanks."
  created: '2006-11-06 17:30:36'
- author:
    name: An Accident
  body: "So far it seems to read like this:\r\n\r\nYou ask people what they think.\r\nThey
    tell you what they think.\r\nYou tell them that the image was selected for the
    American Illustration Annual book this year and then adopt a passive-aggressive
    tone with \"what do illustrators know anyway ... right?\".\r\nPeople raise issues
    with the image that fail to get a response even when the same issues keep cropping
    up:\r\nWhat do rotting meat or flies say about AIDS in Africa <em>or</em> about
    the West's neglect of the third world?\r\n\r\nThis is not because we don't \"get
    it\" \u2013 because we can't get past our \"1+1=2\" mentality \u2013 this is not
    an \"Artists\" vs. \"Designers\" thing as you continue to assert, this is about
    communication.\r\n\r\nThe word or image of meat is a heavily loaded metaphor that
    seems out of place here, and not in an intellectually provocative way.\r\n\r\nIf
    you intend to communicate (even part) of a complex problem with an image, you
    should be concerned about the fact that it seems to have caused confusion here,
    a forum for people who (often) work in the same field as you \u2013 2D communication
    designed for print or screen.\r\nYou have also jumped to the conclusion that everyone
    here is a \"designer\" and therefore, in your view, not an \"artist\". Aside for
    the fact that there are many \"artists\" and non-typographers here, where is the
    art/design line drawn? I certainly think that it's more blurred than you are making
    out.\r\n\r\nIllustration can offer a means to communicate without language barriers.
    This is a major strength, but also a responsibility when dealing with sensitive
    (and enormous) issues such as this.\r\n\r\nNobody likse to have their work unfairly
    criticised and it's clear that you think this is the case here, but can you at
    least drop the \"us and them\" attitude toward Typophile users \u2013 you are
    creating divisions that needn't exist."
  created: '2006-11-06 17:39:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The individual is the source of all problems in the world.\r\n\r\nEdel,
    this isn't that blog - please get serious.\r\n\r\nThe individual is not even <cite>a</cite>
    problem - in fact it is fully <cite>half</cite> the solution.\r\nThe problem is
    the imbalance: in your attitude, in your society.\r\n\r\n> That illustration WAS
    submitted and accepted as one of the\r\n> best pieces of the year into the American
    Illustration Annual.\r\n\r\nSo now you're in a position to decide whom to take
    more seriously.\r\nAnd don't come back with some diplomatic, relativist \"they're
    both\r\nequally useful\" claptrap. Everybody is always at least somewhat\r\nwrong
    about anything. And equality is death.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-06 17:39:58'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: Hrant, the way you are able to explain things.  Man, you're a genius!
  created: '2006-11-06 17:46:15'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Phew, things are moving fast here. Edel, my anger was provoked by your seemingly
    flippant remark about taking an image and putting text on it, not because the
    text was badly set (there are enough examples of really poor setting, yours doesn't
    sneak in the top 100) but because you seemed to be treating the subject with less
    respect than it deserves, which puzzles me given your obvious passion. If your
    purpose was to create discussion of a serious subject by creating a thought-provoking
    image, I am afraid my initial reaction remains the same \u2013 the image misses
    the mark, unfortunately the drawback of emotional responses is that they are not
    always successful.\r\n\r\n>Why one field thinks it\u2019s great, and another thinks
    it\u2019s garbage.\r\nAs an illustration I don't think it is garbage, just not
    the best solution. The lack of discussion here about the actual problem bears
    witness to that (not that I really expected it, part of the problem is that is
    so large that the individual is overwhelmed by it).\r\n\r\nAs for the typographers
    versus illustrators thing it seems to me you are seeing something that doesn't
    exist, nearly all of us on these forums have at some time or another worked with
    illustrators (or even as illustrators), I have never had a situation that led
    to duelling with scalpels behind the bike sheds:)\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-11-06 18:04:58'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: I'm still trying to figure out how Hrant corrects someone whey they call him
    a genius.  Waiting.....
  created: '2006-11-06 18:12:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Ed,\r\n\r\nWhat do you think of this shirt? \r\n\r\nhttp://www.veer.com/products/merchdetail.aspx?image=VPR0001351\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-06 18:27:32'
- author:
    name: An Accident
  body: The "genius" thing is obviously just a joke now, I think you may be in for
    a long wait ...
  created: '2006-11-06 18:27:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Edel, I could swear we once established that you're not half your age.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-06 18:28:19'
- author:
    name: An Accident
  body: "Sii\r\n\r\nThere's also this:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.hicksdesign.co.uk/journal/design-is-just-making-things-line-up"
  created: '2006-11-06 18:29:58'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: Who is Ed?
  created: '2006-11-06 18:30:32'
- author:
    name: ycole
    picture: 111967
  body: "this thread is kinda hilarious actually.\r\n\r\noh i forgot to mention...
    comparing yourself to basquiat? pulease. PUHLEASE. \r\n\r\nYeah, you're regular
    pollack! Artistic geniuses don't care about typesetting. (another great tshirt
    design, threadless here i come!)"
  created: '2006-11-06 19:12:20'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Yeole,\r\nGlad I could make you smile... I like entertaining children."
  created: '2006-11-06 20:10:18'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "\"I agree that the anonimity of online forums can allow people to get out
    of hand\"\r\n-Yusef Cole\r\n\r\nMan, get a grip.  You have good work, you could
    probably chill a bit."
  created: '2006-11-06 20:23:08'
- author:
    name: ycole
    picture: 111967
  body: i also think you have good work man. but i think the comparison is a bit of
    a stretch... eh? anyway let's let sleeping threads lie.
  created: '2006-11-06 20:47:20'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Yusef,\r\nI would never dare 'compare' myself to Basquiat or many other artists.
    \ I simply mentioned a well known artist that people might recognize to try and
    explain a point.  \r\n\r\nI also never called myself a 'genius'.  \r\n\r\nThe
    reason why people may hesitate to put their work up here in Typophile is that
    as soon as that happens people start taking everything out of context, as you
    have.  All of a sudden one is pictured as a guy that thinks he's GOD.  \r\nI am
    just trying to figure out why people see things differently.  Why one person gets
    something right away and another person does not.  It's always intrigued me.\r\n\r\nI'll
    keep working to try and make sense to everyone."
  created: '2006-11-06 21:02:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Typophile exists because people put their work up.\r\nBut you have to put
    your work up for reasons other than garnering praise.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-06 21:10:11'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Hrant,\r\nI like to hear all sorts of comments.  As a matter of fact, I put
    another poster up in the design section that has been liked and it's annoying
    me.  Go trash it, I want your input.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-06 21:18:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Damit Edel! I like that F@#$%& Military Intelligence poster! So THERE!!!
    That one works, this one doesn't.  Grrrrr\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-06 22:29:32'
- author:
    name: An Accident
  body: "\"Why one person gets something right away and another person does not\"\r\n\r\nPlease
    explain to us all what we are missing \u2013\_to help us \"get it\".\r\nYou have
    been repeatedly asked to explain how the rotten meat and flies says something
    about the AIDS epidemic in Africa. This poster is exceptional enough to have been
    chosen for that illustration annual you mentioned, it must be strong enough to
    survive a little probing.\r\n\r\nI know the message you are trying to communicate,
    but I need help in understanding in how this poster helps achieve your aim.\r\n\r\nMy
    fear \u2013\_and I would like to be proved wrong \u2013\_is that while <em>at
    first</em> it seems like a clever visual trick ... aah yes, Africa <em>is</em>
    shaped a little like a steak ... when you think about it (etc.)\r\nBut then ...
    if you ask yourself \"why?\" it seems to unravel.\r\nWhat connotations does meat
    already have?\r\nmeat is murder.\r\none man's meat is another man's poison.\r\ntreating
    people like meat.\r\nmeat as metaphor for greed and/or violence\r\nmeat as muscle
    or strength.\r\na \"meat-market\".\r\nand so on.\r\n\r\nWhen you work with loaded
    material you have the opportunity to exploit the pre-existing semiology, or to
    play off it in new and exciting ways. I'm not sure that your use of meat falls
    into either category (other comments in this thread have offered many explanations
    why, I won't go over them).\r\n\r\nI know that the larger context of the poster
    is the West's neglect of the third world but you <em>specifically</em> focus on
    AIDS and <em>that</em> is where I\_see the problem between text and image in your
    poster.\r\n\r\nThe <em>text</em> says AIDS is a major problem in Africa (this
    is an awful truth)\r\nThe <em>image</em> possibly says \"Africa is rotting\" (or
    \"Africa is rotten\" which clearly problematic)\r\nIt could obviously say many
    other things (some have been previously suggested) and I hope you can explain
    the alternative reading that links it to AIDS and clear this up once and for all.\r\n\r\nI
    also think that, with the exception of a couple of comments, people here have
    been polite and courteous in the face of your resistance to delve deeper into
    the strengths and weaknesses of this piece of work that you put up for critique.\r\nYou
    seem to have focussed on the fact that people don't like the work, rather than
    <em>why</em> they don't like it.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-06 22:42:19'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<em>The reason why people may hesitate to put their work up here in Typophile
    is that as soon as that happens people start taking everything out of context
    (...)</em>\r\n\r\nWell, in my [limited] experience this tends to happen almost
    everywhere. \r\n\r\nI must confess that I have skipped a few posts here and there
    when comments started to go off-topic or become personal attacks, but can I ask
    you in earnest what your original goal with this thread was? Did you want honest
    criticism of your work or did you just want to show people something you've done?\r\n\r\nI
    am reminded of a proverb: \"It is not the same to talk of bulls as to be in the
    bullring.\""
  created: '2006-11-06 22:57:29'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite>I have skipped a few posts</cite>\r\nlol! I think this begs for a \r\n\r\nSynopsis:\r\nA
    tale of rolex, cats, Armenian genocide and ipods\r\n\r\nMay 2006 Erik West starts
    thread http://typophile.com/node/20337 showing a CA cover made by Edel Rodrigues.
    Rapture ensues. \r\nEverything going well (for typophile standards) until ER intercepts
    the conversation, 511 posts later he declares the thread dead by slow decay.\r\nNovember
    2006: ER has an unfinished business..."
  created: '2006-11-07 00:45:15'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Great work lore.\r\n\r\nOne problem.  Rodriguez with a \"z\"  :-)"
  created: '2006-11-07 01:27:01'
- author:
    name: ER
    picture: 111671
  body: "Dear Mr. Accident,\r\n\r\nI think I've explained quite a bit.  I'll get to
    all your questions soon.  There are about 20 people here with 10 questions each.
    \ I am a family man with many priorities to deal with in one day.  A priority
    that is not high on my list is to promptly explain anything to \"An Accident\".\r\n\r\nI
    will answer all your \"probing\", just give me some time please.  "
  created: '2006-11-07 02:06:22'
date: '2006-11-04 05:30:42'
files:
- filename: e. nytimes steak poster.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/e. nytimes steak poster.jpg
- filename: e. nytimes steak poster_0.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/e. nytimes steak poster_0.jpg
node_type: forum
title: Africa poster

---
