---
author:
  name: Uli
body: "<strong>The Hertin File - One Year After</strong>\r\n\r\nA new version of the
  German \"Hertin File\" (\"Hertin-Akte\") is available since February 2008 at my
  website for legal authorities. It should be emphasized that the \"Hertin File\",
  which also documents the lawsuit \"Hertin vs. Stiehl\" (29 C 495/07), is available
  for legal authorities only.\r\n\r\nThe \"cease-and-desist\" Hertin Anwaltssoziet\xE4t
  in Berlin (Paul Wolfgang Hertin, Christlieb Klages, Urs Verweyen et al.) did not
  succeed to prevent the \"Hertin File\" which is downloadable for legal authorities
  at\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/hertin.htm\r\n\r\nand also downloadable
  at\r\n\r\nhttp://cg.scs.carleton.ca/~luc/hertin/hertin.htm"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Uli the witch hunter, first you'd have to ask does anyone at Typophile care.
    Judging from the development of other threads started by the witch hunter Uli,
    I certainly hope not. And I certainly hope that any witch hunting revelations
    published by Uli the witch hunter remain firmly in German only. German witches
    beware, the hunt is on!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-04 14:56:12'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Oh dear, this is so sad... :^/
  created: '2006-11-04 21:06:32'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: You really <em>really</em> like to say "forgery", don't you? Come on, say
    it again -- "forgery". Knock yerself out. :^)
  created: '2006-11-05 08:22:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't think anybody would dispute that you'd get along smashingly with
    Downer.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-05 15:30:35'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Uli,\r\n\r\naccording to my dictionary,\r\n\r\nlying is \"to say or write
    something that is not true in order to deceive someone\"\r\n\r\nwhereas\r\n\r\nignorance
    is \"not having enough knowledge, understanding, or information about something\".\r\n\r\nYour
    website evidently contains untrue statements. I wonder which one it is in your
    case, lying or ignorance?"
  created: '2006-11-05 23:02:30'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "I missed the part where I had <em>anything</em> to do with people buying
    fonts at FontShop. :^)\r\n\r\nPlus it's not very nice to go about insulting people.
    \"Stupid font buyers\"? Tsk tsk, manners! :^P"
  created: '2006-11-05 23:30:19'
- author:
    name: ndmike
    picture: 109528
  body: 'I''ll admit, I have very little idea of what Uli is talking about. But, a
    cursory search of FontShop''s website turns up zero fonts named <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=verity.search&font_categories=1&font_categories_search=font_name_search&searchstr=paxim">Paxim</a>
    or <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=verity.search&font_categories=1&font_categories_search=font_name_search&searchstr=parlament">Parlament</a>.
    So, what''s the deal, here? Uli, do you have links that show otherwise? That is,
    something besides some .PDF lists in German that nobody here can/wants to read?
    Or, can I go back to bed? '
  created: '2006-11-06 01:55:43'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Uli,\r\n\r\nit seems that you have very strong opinions and you want to convince
    everybody of your views. That's fair enough.\r\n\r\nHowever, when you find arguments
    that support your point of view you do not seem to check if they are actually
    true, maybe because when checking them they might turn out to be invalid. That's
    not OK. Please check your statements more thoroughly before you post them. It
    is not about asking others to prove you wrong, you should only post statements
    if you are certain to be correct.\r\n\r\n<cite>So specify and prove at least TWO
    untrue statements.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou're not getting the point here. It is YOUR
    responsibility to verify all the information BEFORE you post it. You cannot simply
    publish stuff and see if people tell you off.\r\n\r\nAnyway, a simple example:
    On your website you say that Linotype has awarded the \"Certificate of Excellence
    in Type Design\" to their own fonts. Do you deliberately post such incorrect information?
    Or were you just to lazy to check it? Or were you worried to find out that your
    argument is invalid if you found out who actually awards the \"Certificate of
    Excellence in Type Design\"?\r\n\r\nPlease dont't reply something like \"OK -
    what else is wrong?\". It is not my job to look for errors on your website. It
    is your own responsibility to check what you write.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u201CStatements\u201D
    in plural? This would mean at least TWO.\r\nSo specify and prove at least TWO
    untrue statements.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat sound very much like you are already aware
    of ONE lie?\r\n\r\nBtw, I am still wondering about your motivation for doing what
    you do. You evaded my question the other day."
  created: '2006-11-06 09:25:32'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Uli,\r\n\r\nI assume your logic is:\r\n\"I am right unless someone can prove
    me wrong.\"\r\nand\r\n\"If I am proven wrong in one point this does not mean that
    my other arguments are wrong.\"\r\n\r\nThis logic is certainly true in court.
    However, this is an internet discussion and people think differently:\r\n\r\nIf
    you want to convince people you have to make an effort so they agree with you.\r\n\r\nIf
    someone spots a single error/lie in what you say (and most of them will not even
    be bothered to tell you) they will (unlike a judge) not believe a single word
    of what else you say.\r\n\r\nMaybe that helps in our discussions?"
  created: '2006-11-06 10:41:11'
- author:
    name: ndmike
    picture: 109528
  body: "I'm not going to continue wasting time arguing trolls in this thread, so
    this is my last post on this topic. That said, you wrote:\r\n\r\n<cite>The Australian
    FontShop ... is even presently offering Paxim and Parlament for sale</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    just checked, and the Australian site doesn't offer the fonts you mention for
    sale. In fact, none of the iterations of FontShop worldwide offer Paxim or Parlament.
    The .JPG links you provided could be forgeries themselves for all I know (or care).
    But, unless you provide a working link to an active FontShop page somewhere in
    the world offering the fonts you mention for sale, there's no basis to your argument.
    If FontShop offered it for sale in 2004, why post about it now? What can anybody
    at Typophile do about it?\r\n\r\n<cite>For Mr. Ahrens and for the other Typophile
    members it seems to be entirely legal for forgers to snatch the fonts made by
    others and to rename them and sell them as their own fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nTypophile
    members don't make the law. Indeed, many are quite upset at current U.S. copyright
    law which, in fact, doesn't protect typeface designs themselves, only the source
    code of the computer files. \r\n\r\nBut, if you are arguing the morality of copying
    and reselling fonts under different names, you'd do much better to avoid <em>ad
    hominem</em> attacks on members of the Typophile community and the purchasers
    of the fonts they create. Likewise, if you want to be taken seriously as an impartial
    \"documenter\" rather than a biased \"prosecutor\" with an axe to grind, I'd take
    a page from journalists' book and avoid using loaded words like \"font <em>forgers</em>\"
    and \"<em>criminal</em> research.\"\r\n\r\nAs of yet, I have not seen in this
    thread nor in others you have started any willingness to ascribe to these simple
    rules of polite discourse. As such, many on these boards spend their time and
    energy attempting to defend our community against your malicious, defamatory and,
    quite possibly, libelous vitriol. \r\n\r\nI, for one, am done and won't participate
    in this fruitless exchange any longer. I would recommend that by brothers and
    sisters here do likewise and avoid furthering this pointless debate with you."
  created: '2006-11-06 13:54:43'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>This English expression in my German subsite was a wrong translation.</cite>\r\nOops!\r\n<cite>\u201CDocumentations
    for Prosecutors and Criminal Courts\u201D</cite>\r\nOh, very intersting. That's
    very kind of you. However, have you ever heard of any case when the prosecutors
    were involved in a case that was about intellectual property rights or copyright
    infringement?\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-06 14:19:59'
- author:
    name: Pixion
  body: "Aside from expressions like \"witch hunting\", forgery etc., I am wondering
    what the general opinion is on the fonts Uli mentioned. \r\n\r\nWhen I look at
    Paxim, there seems to be a strong similarity with Palatino. However, some distinct
    differences are the shape of bowls on the d, b, p, q (less round, less calligraphic),
    some of the serifs are and further, the s and the f are different.\r\n\r\nWould
    this level of distinction make it fall into a category like 'revival' re-interpretation'?\r\n\r\nI
    am curious for your opinions."
  created: '2006-11-06 16:11:44'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"useless comments\"\r\n\"Most font buyers are dimwitted\"\r\n\"At Typophile
    nobody cares that forgeries of fonts of famous designers are distributed to gullible
    font buyers.\"\r\n\"It seems that Typophile members are bloody laymen\"\r\n\r\n\"Please
    delete my \u201CUli\u201D account as soon as possible\"\r\n\r\n\"Nobody at Typophile
    expresses any regrets\""
  created: '2006-11-06 16:48:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> neither Mr. Peters nor Mr. Papazian nor anyone\r\n> else at Typophile knows
    which Palatino was forged.\r\n\r\nI most certainly do: the metal one.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-06 17:00:44'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>neither Mr. Peters nor Mr. Papazian nor anyone else at Typophile knows
    which Palatino was forged.</em>\r\n\r\nUli, don't you even <em>try</em> to assume
    what I know or don't know, you silly bastid. :^D\r\n\r\nSebastian, I can't get
    into it right now, but I will give you the lowdown on why different foundries
    have their 'own versions' of popular typefaces. What Uli likes to call 'forgeries'
    is actually something most everyone in the industry is aware of. Uli just wants
    to make us believe it's all a big secret conspiracy while it's no big deal, really.
    Like everything in life, not all is black and white but different shades of grey.
    ;^)"
  created: '2006-11-06 19:57:22'
- author:
    name: gthompson
    picture: 109676
  body: "<em>Here is the (unfortunately very long, but correct and working) link to
    where Paxim and Parlament are offered by the FontShop in Australia:</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    page exists, but I don't see any samples of the fonts in question and they are
    not available for sale. Try it and see. And the page doesn't look like the other
    font pages\r\n\r\n(http://www.fontshop.com/?fuseaction=catalog.fonts&searchby=category&searchID=1)\r\n\r\nso
    it's questionable (to me anyway) as to what it's existence means. Did Fontshop
    once upon a time carry the fonts? Then why don't they now? \r\n\r\nGeorge \r\nI
    felt bad because I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
  created: '2006-11-06 19:58:23'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Over 40 instances of \"forgery\", \"forgeries\", \"forged\", \"forgers\"
    etcetera in this thread already. Uli is having a field day! ;^)\r\n\r\nOoooh,
    say it again, Uli. \"Forgery\". Taste it, spit out the 'f', let the 'r's roll
    on your tongue. Come on, you know you want it. :^)"
  created: '2006-11-06 20:04:19'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "Yves \u2014 This is juvenile. You may disagree, but pinning down someone
    on his terminology is downright dim. \r\n\r\nHrant \u2014 \"the metal one\" is
    not much of a help, is it? Which metal one? The one for machine composition on
    a Linotype? The one for hand composition by Stempel? Which master size? Etc. \r\n\r\nAll
    \u2014 Stay to the point!"
  created: '2006-11-06 21:29:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, stay on the hunt!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-06 21:35:43'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Please, lets not bring the Hunts into this! :-(
  created: '2006-11-06 22:11:24'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Ludwig, can we pin Uli down on his flawed reductive logic then? His haughty,
    judgemental tone, his acid words? His paranoia? The pointlessly combative air
    of his posts? I have to ask why Uli proposes to help anyone except possibly by
    enriching lawyers. He doesn't seem to have any respect for font makers or font
    buyers. He's declared Typophile useless to him. I doubt that, though I don't wish
    for his return.\r\n\r\nIf it's really worthwhile pursuing which Palatino was pirated
    here, prepare for a very long and tedious list of other pirated versions of Palatino.
    You may be ready for a nap before we even finish enumerating the \"forgeries\",
    much less tracing the original versions. \r\n\r\nI think it's more interesting
    to contemplate the different original versions of Palatino, and why certain ones
    of them aren't yet available digitally (from the descendant of the original foundry)."
  created: '2006-11-06 22:34:03'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>Yves \u2014 This is juvenile. You may disagree, but pinning down someone
    on his terminology is downright dim.</em>\r\n\r\nYup. I've stopped trying to make
    some sense out of his ramblings and decided to lower myself to his level. This
    is new to me, but it's actually kinda fun.\r\n\r\nWhatever, this is a non-discussion.
    Carl sums it up pretty nicely.\r\n\r\nSi -- ROFL :^D"
  created: '2006-11-06 22:52:25'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "Yves \u2014 If you stop trying to make sense out of someone's words, sure
    you can turn each discussion into a non-discussion. The question at stake in the
    opening post merely asked after the sources of the two respectively quoted remakes.
    If this kind of font genealogy is of any interest to you (to me it is), then please
    partake into the discussion. If not, refrain from it and keep the supercilious
    quibbling to yourself.\r\n\r\nCarl \u2014 I fail to perceive \"flawed reductive
    logic\", \"haughty, judgemental tone\", \"acid words\", \"paranoia\" and a \"pointlessly
    combative air\" in the posts of Uli. Claiming that \"he doesn\u2019t seem to have
    any respect for font makers or font buyers,\" is a blunt twist of his words, while
    he explicitly asserts the opposite: \"At Typophile nobody cares that forgeries
    of fonts of famous designers are distributed to gullible font buyers.\" You don't
    pay respect to a na\xEFve fool by telling him he's cunning.\r\n\r\nPiling <a href=\"http://www.don-lindsay-archive.org/skeptic/arguments.html\">falacious
    arguments</a> always does the trick. Yes, you can silence people by ridiculising
    their words, convictions and interests. That's what witch hunters are good at,
    right? I wonder why the author of this thread judged Typophile members to be \"bloody
    laymen\"?"
  created: '2006-11-07 00:14:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I\u2019ve stopped trying to make some sense out of his ramblings\r\n> and
    decided to lower myself to his level. This is new to me,\r\n> but it\u2019s actually
    kinda fun.\r\n\r\nDitto!\r\nWhen there's no point, might as well have fun\r\nwith
    it. You know, like a dumb punching bag.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-07 00:51:44'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: I have to agree with Carl's opinions, and add that someone who constantly
    refers to the "font forging industry" is probably just trying to get a rise out
    of someone. Let's not fall for his tricks any longer.
  created: '2006-11-07 01:16:49'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "Uli has the courage of his convictions, rightly or wrongly. Witchhunt or
    not, it brings into focus an interesting point. The opportunity is there to inform
    him of why you disagree in such a manner that he may get something useful from
    it.\r\n\r\nI, and I'm sure there are others would like to hear someone expand
    on the reasons for these 'versions' of typefaces beyond the obvious piracy arguments.
    Instead \u2013 from 2 of typophile's usually eloquent members \u2013 we get...\r\n\r\n<cite>Yup.
    I\u2019ve stopped trying to make some sense out of his ramblings and decided to
    lower myself to his level. This is new to me, but it\u2019s actually kinda fun.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>When
    there\u2019s no point, might as well have fun\r\nwith it. You know, like a dumb
    punching bag.</cite>\r\n\r\nAs a result I fear you've only strengthened his resolve
    and contributed to the perpetuation of information that doesn't tell the whole
    story."
  created: '2006-11-07 09:28:31'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "ChrisG, Ludwig,\r\n\r\nthe problem is not his concern, it is his method.
    That is unsound.\r\n\r\nAnother problem is his choice of words. I do think terminology
    matters and we can and should critisize him for this."
  created: '2006-11-07 10:11:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Conviction, good. Berserker persecution, bad.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-07 14:22:42'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: Undoubtedly Hrant. I am not in a position to comment on the veracity of Uli's
    claims, but if they are wide of the mark as the consensus would suggest, bestowing
    some patience and collective expertise might make for a rethink on his part.
  created: '2006-11-08 09:28:34'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "And just like a creature whose name I shall not mention (for the better part
    of me), off he go to the void.\r\n\r\nActually, he might go back in again after
    reading all of these comments."
  created: '2006-11-08 22:23:30'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>but if they are wide of the mark as the consensus would suggest, bestowing
    some patience and collective expertise might make for a rethink on his part.</em>\r\n\r\nFrankly,
    that would be a monumental waste of time. We've been there and done that, believe
    me. <em>Countless</em> times. <em>Over</em> and over again. :^/\r\n\r\nYou only
    say this because you're new to his antics."
  created: '2006-11-09 10:35:40'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: Yes, I'm unfamiliar with Uli prior to this thread, and if it is an ongoing
    thing it puts your exasperation in a different light. No offence intended Yves.
  created: '2006-11-09 14:58:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm on the last page of the hunting manual, yay!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-09 17:07:50'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: We do not delete accounts so as to keep some continuity in the content. The
    best thing you can do is simply not visit Typophile. Cheers!
  created: '2006-11-09 20:10:48'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>Yes, I\u2019m unfamiliar with Uli prior to this thread, and if it is
    an ongoing thing it puts your exasperation in a different light. No offence intended
    Yves.</em>\r\n\r\nNo no no, no offense taken, really! This thread was actually
    quite funny. Uli reminds me of an old kook in my wife's native street, who after
    55 years still thinks the Germans are coming. Pops out of his garden and starts
    to talk crazy to you, pure paranoia."
  created: '2006-11-09 21:57:13'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Tim, \r\n\r\n> the problem is not his concern, it is his method. \r\n> That
    is unsound.\r\n\r\nIt is an unsound method, and Uli shoots himself in the foot
    because of this quite often. \r\n\r\n> Another problem is his choice of words.
    I do think \r\n> terminology matters and we can and should critisize \r\n> him
    for this.\r\n\r\nWell, I actually like his choice of words. Uli uses his own terminology,
    but he quite clearly states his purpose and his reasoning. \r\n\r\nSometimes,
    he's completely wrong, and it's quite easy to pin him on that. But if you ignore
    the rambling overhead of this posts and writings, you'll find out that in many
    cases, he's unfortunately right. It would be helpful if he did not ruin this by
    shooting himself in the foot on so many occasions, claiming things that are not
    true, jumping to illogical conclusions etc. \r\n\r\nReading Uli kind of requires
    some mental discipline, but at the end of the day, there are many useful things
    on his website. I guess, had he been less confrontational in style, he'd more
    easily find audience willing to listen. A lesson that I learned myself some time
    ago. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n\r\nPs. At least Uli considers the font forging industry \"funny\",
    a view that I most certainly share. "
  created: '2006-12-08 22:15:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Some good points.\r\n\r\nPersonally my only real problem with Uli is that
    he's so obsessed with something so deathly boring. It's like somebody who only
    frequents a forum for discussing the composition of music to express outrage at
    Spears's and Aguilera's promiscuities.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-10 05:15:08'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I guess most of the population considers type design itself deadly boring
    -- including some type designers. I actually don't consider the \"funny font forging
    industry\" boring. I find it fascinating that all those people keep knocking each
    other off and get away with it just fine. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-12-10 18:04:21'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "<cite>I guess most of the population considers type design itself deadly
    boring...</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's a good point, actually."
  created: '2006-12-17 03:02:36'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Uli, \r\n\r\nwhile I'm not in any way part of the dispute, I would like to
    make some comments on your findings and claims. \r\n\r\nAs you point out in http://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/escoria.pdf,
    the original type design Chevalier was designed by Emil A. Neukomm in 1946 at
    Haas, and was distributed in Germany by D. Stempel AG from the 1950s on. As you
    probably, know, both Haas and Stempel assets have been acquired by Linotype-Hell
    around 1985-89. Linotype-Hell was acquired by Heidelberg and its font division
    was separated into Linotype Library GmbH in 1997. In 2006-07, the company changed
    the name to Linotype GmbH and was sold to Monotype Imaging. \r\n\r\nThere has
    been a continuous legal ownership of matrices, design originals (drawings), designer
    credits and (in many cases) trademarks by Linotype GmbH from its predecessors.
    \r\n\r\nWhile Hertin Anwaltssoziet\xE4t asserts there is no copyright protection
    for type designs in Germany and typeface designs can be only protected as design
    patents (Geschmacksmuster), this does not automatically imply that this is the
    case worldwide. For example in Poland, courts have decided that typeface designs
    are protected under copyright law (rather than the patent law, which only offers
    paid and more time-limited protection). \r\n\r\nOn http://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/chevalier.htm,
    you interpret the \"June 2006\" release of Chevalier by Linotype so that before
    June 2006, Chevalier was not available at Linotype. Your interpretation is wrong.
    As you have documented yourself, Haas published Chevalier as metal type in 1946
    and D. Stempel AG distributed the metal type from the 1950s on. The typeface was
    available for sale by these companies. Haas' type assets and D. Stempel AG were
    purchased by Linotype-Hell in the 1980s, and their assets have gone into Linotype
    GmbH. Linotype GmbH is the legal successor of D. Stempel AG and at least of the
    type assets of Haas (I don't know the exact details of the transactions). \r\n\r\nYou
    make the point that Softmaker sold the digital font \"Maurice\" as early as 2002
    (or perhaps earlier), and that it was a \"forgery\" of the Chevalier design. You
    conclude that Linotype's digital font \"Chevalier\" is a copy of \"Maurice\",
    therefore not an original. But as Linotype is a legal successor of the type assets
    of Haas and Stempel, wouldn't you agree that it has the right to claim to be the
    originator of the Chevalier design, dating back to 1946? \r\n\r\nFurther, you
    completely ignore the distinction between typeface design and the digital font
    form. The Adobe vs. SSi ruling in the U.S. has affirmed that digital fonts are
    treated as software programs and are copyrightable under U.S. law. Since U.S.
    and Germany are part of the WIPO and of the Berne convention, it can be asserted
    that while typeface designs may not be copyrightable in Germany (but only enjoy
    patent protection), the software programs, and therefore the digital fonts, are
    copyrightable. I believe there are some German court rulings that see it the same
    way. \r\n\r\nYour analysis of Linotype's Chevalier and Softmaker's Maurice digital
    data is interesting. Indeed, it suggests that both fonts share the same digital
    software code. While Linotype release the font only in 2006, there is no reason
    to assume that it was not \"digitized by Linotype\" earlier. Many fonts exist
    in raw digital formats for years and only get published much later. \r\n\r\nKeep
    in mind that copyright protection does not take the date of publication into account,
    but the date of creation. Therefore, it is of no significance that Softmaker released
    their font in 2002 (or earlier) while Linotype did so only in 2006. What is important
    to discover is who and when did the digitization of Chevalier, i.e. turned the
    Haas/Stempel/Linotype original design into software code. \r\n\r\nI cannot agree
    with your conclusion that Linotype's statements \"Digitized by Linotype\", \"Linotype
    Original\", \"Copyright by Linotype\" are \"blunt lies\" (\"plumpe L\xFCgen\").
    Given the fact that Chevalier was produced and marketed by companies that were
    acquired by Linotype, Linotype is entitled to call the typeface a \"Linotype Original\".
    Provided that the font software for Chevalier was indeed prepared by Linotype
    (Linotype-Hell AG, Linotype Library GmbH, Linotype GmbH or a service partner working
    for any of these), I have no reason to see why Linotype should not claim copyright
    on the digital software code, and credit itself on the digitization. \r\n\r\nUnfortunately,
    Ulrich -- as usual -- you are jumping to conclusions without properly analyzing
    the materials. I agree with you that the matter should be clarified by the legal
    authorities, and therefore am grateful for your work on documenting these issues.
    However, I don't think that you're doing yourself or anyone else much service
    by accompanying your documentation with loud claims such as \"blunt lies\", which,
    in my eye, you have not sufficiently backed up with evidence. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-13 10:41:05'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Uli, \r\n\r\nregarding the correspondence from Elsner+Flake's attorneys Anwaltsoziet\xE4t
    Hertin, I believe you have not understood what they wrote. They say that the typeface
    *design* \"Chavalier\" has become public domain, and that Elsner+Flake digitized
    it, expanded the character set and implemented the typeface in contemporary font
    formats. While typeface designs may not be copyrightable in Germany, digital fonts
    are considered copyrightable software. In your reply to Hertin, you cite Hertin's
    book in that he describes that forging public domain works such as Shakespeare's
    is illegal. \r\n\r\nBut your analogy is flawed. The works of Shakespeare are public
    domain but if one produces a software program that displays and presents Shakespeare's
    works on modern computers in an innovative way, and extends the works by comments
    or some other additions, the result of this work *is* copyrightable even though
    the underlying work is public domain. \r\n\r\nThis is why Hertin writes: \"In
    case of the typeface 'Escorial', our client [Elsner+Flake] digitized an existing
    metal type of letterforms, added special characters such as \u20AC, @ and others
    that have meanwhile become customary, and implemented the result in contemporary
    font formats. Our client offers this service as licenses for the relevant fonts.\"
    \r\n\r\nQuite clearly, Hertin's point is that while Chevalier is a public domain
    design, Elsner+Flake's version (\"Escorial\") is not copyright-free because Elsner+Flake
    digitized the typeface and implemented the design in digital font formats (which
    are considered software) and performed some work that added intellectual property
    (such as creating the custom characters). \r\n\r\nIn your reply to Hertin, you
    mix up typeface designs and digital fonts and ignore the rest of the distinctions
    I have explained above. This indicates that you don't understand what Hertin wrote
    to you. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2007-03-13 11:13:35'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "BTW, as you well know, Uli, the court ruling that confirmed that computer
    fonts are copyrightable as software in Germany was LG K\xF6ln, Urteil vom 12.01.2000,
    28 O 133/97 \"Schutzf\xE4higkeit von Computerschriften\": http://www.jurpc.de/rechtspr/20000217.htm\r\n\r\nI'm
    well aware that you are opposing this view in your analysis (http://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/computerprogramm.pdf
    ) but to me, the arguments that you present in your write-up do not hold up. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-13 11:39:42'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Two striking things in the Hertin letter:\r\n\r\n(1) To my regret, the letter
    itself does not make the distinction between protecting type design vs protecting
    font software explicit.\r\n\r\n(2) The Hertin letter (to support its claim that
    their client sells digitized typefaces that are public domain now and not protected
    by copyright) sweepingly states that for the protection of typefaces there is
    the Geschmacksmustergesetz/Schriftzeichengesetz -- <cite>and no protection beyond
    that</cite>.* It goes so far to claim that typefaces are not copyrightable.**
    This contradicts what was published elsewhere, that typefaces are protected if
    they show \"artistic added value\" -- unlikely maybe, but, well ... So, I regret
    that their argument is rather extrabold.\r\n(At the same time, referring to the
    link Adam posted, I have the sad impression that the court took the easy route:
    because fonts deserve protection as <cite>font software</cite>, they did not even
    attempt to answer the question whether the <cite>typefaces</cite> are actually
    works of art and thus copyrighted in Germany. Since font formats come and go,
    protection of typefaces as font software is only a substitute for real protection
    of the pieces of art/design which typefaces are or can be. It is as if a 300-dpi
    scan of a drawing were copyrighted but the original drawing were not. It is plain
    absurd. But another story.)\r\n\r\n*&nbsp;&nbsp;\"Darueber hinaus ist ein rechtlicher
    Schutz von Schriftzeichen vom Gesetzgeber nicht vorgesehen.\" (p.2)\r\n**&nbsp;&nbsp;\"Bei
    einem Schrifttyp handelt es sich jedoch eben <cite>gerade nicht</cite> um ein
    urheberrechtlich geschuetztes Werk iSd \xA7 1,2 UrhG.\" (p.3)\r\n\r\nAs to the
    Chevalier outlines, it is amusing that obviously Softmaker sells a cleaned up
    version while Linotype's shows Ikarus-conversion-artefacts in the left serif.&nbsp;&nbsp;:)\r\nIt
    might be a funny project for future students of type history to create a genealogy
    of font outlines."
  created: '2007-03-13 13:49:03'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: Another interesting aspect is that - as far as I know - copyright cannot be
    transferred under any circumstances except inheriting according to German legislation.
    Therefore it is not possible that a company owns a copyright, it stays with the
    original designer until his/her death and with the descendants until 70 years
    after the death.
  created: '2007-03-13 17:19:34'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "The ruling to which Adam's link refers clearly states that fonts -- regarded
    as font software (= computer programs) -- <cite>are</cite> copyrightable.\r\nAnd
    typeface designs <cite>may</cite> be copyrightable as works of art, also indicated
    in the ruling.\r\n\r\nPersonal note, to extend what I already said in my previous
    post:\r\nWhat <cite>really</cite> bothers me is the somewhat flawed argument to
    which the ruling subscribed. It goes like this:\r\nTo make software, you need
    to have computer knowledge and training as typographer or typesetter (the ability
    to space letters is explicitly mentioned). It does not even matter whether the
    type designer actually programs the font software, or uses applications which
    generate the font software. The ruling emphasizes that, to make font software,
    one needs \"creative programming skills/efforts\" which justify copyright protection.
    (One could back this by the assumption that e.g. a PostScript font in fact is
    a program which <cite>can</cite> be programmed. But there is no word of this in
    the said ruling.) In short:\r\nOn the one hand, protecting font software -- i.e.
    the technical implementation of typeface design -- is easy. The ruling emphasizes
    what at best can be characterized as mere technical skills.\r\nOn the other hand,
    the barrier for typeface design -- as a work of art -- to be regarded as copyrightable
    is set so high that it is rather unlikely that a good text face would ever enjoy
    this kind of protection.\r\nAbsurd."
  created: '2007-03-13 22:29:55'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "\r\nHi Adam, Karsten and Uli,\r\n\r\nwhat do you mean by \"copyrightable\"?
    Do you mean \"schutzfaehig\"?\r\n\r\nI just browsed my law books and found that
    some common assumptions about  intellectual property legislation are not applicable
    in Germany:\r\n\r\n- The notion of \"who owns the copyright\" does not seem to
    be common, at least I have not found anything like that in the texts. You could,
    of course, ask the question \"Who could claim protection for his work in case
    of an argument, and on which legal basis?\"\r\n- Obviously, the creator (Urheber)
    could do so but no action is necessary to protect you intellectual property on
    the basis of the UrhG.\r\n- A company cannot be a creator (Urheber). (\xA77 UrhG)\r\n-
    Copyright can not be transferred between living persons (\xA729,2 UrhG).\r\n-
    However, the creator can transfer rights of use (Nutzungsrechte). I guess this
    is the legal basis on which intellectual property is \"sold\"."
  created: '2007-03-13 23:08:02'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Yes, 'schutzf\xE4hig'. In the sense that something deserves this kind of
    protection and is 'urheberrechtlich gesch\xFCtzt', or not. Not in the sense that
    you need to \"apply\" for this kind of protection.\r\n\r\n[Slightly edited.]"
  created: '2007-03-13 23:18:23'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Uli, \r\n\r\nI'm amused by your megalomania. Throughout this thread, you
    keep stating that the letter to you was written by Professor Hertin, a \"copyright
    law professor at the Berlin University\". However, the signature between the letter
    reads \"Klages, Rechtsanwalt\", which obviously indicates that the letter was
    written by one of the attorneys in the law firm in which Professor Hertin is the
    major partner. According to your logic, if my little sister says something, you
    can quote these words as \"Adam Twardoch says\". If you need this kind of appraise,
    go ahead. But I consider it laughable. \r\n\r\n> Mr. Twardoch\u2019s comment contains
    so many erroneous \r\n> legal assumptions that it would require too much \r\n>
    time to clarify them in this thread. \r\n\r\nOf course, I'm not a lawyer, so my
    comments may have a few mistakes, though I don't see why these would be \"many\".
    And regardless of that, I believe that I at least managed to get away without
    any major logical holes, which your reasoning is unfortunately full of. As I have
    written repeatedly, you prematurely jump to conclusions based on imprecise of
    partial analysis of the text that you have at hand.  \r\n\r\n> hold the copyright
    to this same font sold with \r\n> different copyright claims (\u201CCopyright
    by Softmaker\u201D, \r\n> \u201CCopyright by Linotype\u201D, \u201CCopyright by
    Elsner + Flake\u201D). \r\n\r\nWhat makes you think that these fonts are \"the
    same\"? Surely, these are based on the same typeface design, just as Helvetica
    LT, Swiss 721 BT and Nimbus Sans are all based on the design of Helvetica. But
    these are different fonts. \r\n\r\nI recommend that you think long and hard, and
    try to finally understand the difference between \"typeface design\" and \"digital
    font\". Or maybe you do understand the difference well but you just play naiive,
    hoping that by twisting your words you can get away with your major logical loopholes.
    \r\n\r\n> Even if fonts were copyrightable in Germany, this would \r\n> be legally
    impossible. \r\n\r\nIf these fonts were the same. However, while these three fonts
    represent a digital form of the same public domain typeface design, I'm still
    rather not convinced that the digital computer programs are the same. At least
    you have not shown any evidence that the Linotype version and the E+F version
    are \"the same fonts\". \r\n\r\n> But due to the legal fact that fonts are not
    \r\n> copyrightable at all in Germany, \r\n\r\nFortunately, LG K\xF6ln thinks
    otherwise. Attorney Klages from Prof. Hertin's firm in their letter to you only
    states that \"Schrifttypen\" (which in the context of his explanations is to be
    seen as \"typeface designs\") are not subject to copyright protection. I do not
    see in which part of their letter Anwaltsoziet\xE4t Hertin would comment on copyrightability
    of Fonts as computer programs. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-03-14 07:45:31'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Uli, \r\n\r\nthe information about the legal case that you posted is interesting.
    Your conclusions are also interesting, but they're just wrong. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-03-14 15:46:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> there are a few persons at Typophile interested in law matters\r\n\r\nThere
    are also a few persons at Typophile interested in facial hair, but you don't see
    anybody spending days and days talking about that. Everything is interesting for
    5 minutes; nothing is interesting when a person drones on and on about it.\r\n\r\nUli,
    as it stands your posts would be much more interesting on Legalophile.com, which
    I'm sure has members who never knew people actually make fonts, and you could
    have fruitful discussions with them (and maybe learn more about Law). On Typophile,
    please make an effort to talk more about what you think of font <cite>design</cite>.
    It's more interesting to more people. If you're so interested in font legalities,
    surely you must be interested in fonts too - otherwise you'd be talking about
    the legalities of something else elsewhere. Come on, just a little bit. I mean,
    just look at this:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/user/11274/track\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-14 16:03:07'
- author:
    name: FlorianCH
  body: "\u2026\_there it is again, the magical word, how sweet and styelish it sounds:\r\n\r\n
    \          F O R G E R Y\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n_________________________________\r\n(don\u2019t
    you guys have girlfriends?)\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-14 22:16:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wow, I got fully halfway through that post!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-15 05:14:11'
- author:
    name: FlorianCH
  body: "For what concerns the terminology: I don\u2019t find \xABfont appropriation\xBB,
    \xABfont tweaking\xBB, \xABmentally deranged graphic designers\xBB with \xABpathological
    urges\xBB any helpful if you try to convince people with proper facts.\r\n\r\n\r\nBut
    I\u2019m out, I need some fresh air."
  created: '2007-03-15 08:13:40'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>for the hefty sum of more than 2500 Cents</cite>\r\nNice one! That
    reminds me of the children's meals you find on menus like:\r\nSpaghetti Cinderella
    ................. 480 Cents\r\n\r\n<cite>MA studies at the Piet Zwart Institute:</cite>\r\nHmmm,
    an article that doesn't give away the full name of the author? Suspicious."
  created: '2007-03-15 09:42:33'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Hrant, \r\n\r\nTypophile is not only about type design. There are discussions
    about the business of type as well, and if you think discussions about legal aspects
    of type are not important, I think you're being naiive. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-03-15 11:33:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Of course they're important. I'm just trying to help Uli\r\nget over his
    obsession, which would benefit everybody.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-15 16:39:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "QED.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-15 20:35:09'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>in juristischen Fachzeitschriften</cite>\r\n\r\nVery interesting. Could
    you be more specific? Which ones? Which issues?"
  created: '2007-03-16 09:47:57'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "From the last link you provide:\r\n<cite>Zurichten deutet aber gerade auf
    die Programmierung der Hinting-Informationen hin.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt seems that
    not only the court, but even critics of the ruling have no clue what they are
    talking about.&nbsp;&nbsp;:("
  created: '2007-03-16 16:14:08'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "So, the key question is whether font files are data or programs, right?\r\nDoes
    OpenType change anything? I mean, most OT fonts actually contain program conde
    (for the features) manually coded by the designer. These texts were written when
    OT was obviously not a big thing yet and I think the key arguments are not valid
    for OT anymore."
  created: '2007-03-16 16:23:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Karsten, when has Law ever had a strong\r\ncorrelation to what regular people
    need?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-16 16:40:17'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: I am still too idealistic ...
  created: '2007-03-16 19:19:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I am still too idealistic \u2026\r\n\r\nNo, Hrant is too cynical. As it
    has been put, law is \"the science of liberty'. To give up on law is to give up
    on liberty. And cynicism about law is profoundly illiberal. \r\n\r\nThe law is
    alway full of problems, but the task we can engage in our own ways to try to better
    it through democractic processes and courts. If we give up on law, then we end
    up with war-lord societies, which are way worse. For example, there is no protection
    of intellectual property rights, nor property rights, nor in fact human rights. "
  created: '2007-03-16 19:52:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nah, you're too deluded. What you're exhibiting is purely a coping mechanism.
    You're a peon, just like me. We don't make the laws - they're not for us.\r\n\r\nProposed
    bumper sticker:\r\n\"Voting is not the answer.\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-16 20:06:34'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> If Linotype had digitized Chevalier, Linotype \r\n> would not have sold
    Veronika Elsner\u2019s and G\xFCnther \r\n> Flake\u2019s \u201Cnefarious evil
    knock-off clone\u201D under \r\n> the name Escorial. This proves that Linotype
    \r\n> did not digitize Chevalier. Instead, Linotype \r\n> grabbed a \u201Cnefarious
    evil knock-off clone\u201D and \r\n> renamed it to Chevalier and then declared
    \r\n> \u201CDigitized by Linotype\u201D in order to deceive font \r\n> buyers.\r\n\r\nROTFL.
    Actually, this proves exactly the opposite. Had Linotype not digitized Chevalier,
    it would still continue to sell Escorial EF. However, when selling Escorial, Linotype
    had to give part of the income to Elsner+Flake. At some point -- probably after
    finding out in the vast Linotype archives that Escorial EF is actually based on
    a design which was originally released by Haas/Stempel (Chevalier), to which Linotype
    has full rights -- Linotype produced a digital version of the font themselves.
    Quite possibly, they actually even discovered that the font was already digitized
    by Linotype at an earlier date but only existed in Ikarus form, never converted
    to PostScript. Quite logically, when Linotype stopped selling the Elsner+Flake
    font, they decided to publish their own digital version of a typeface that they
    owned design credits for anyway. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-17 01:40:03'
- author:
    name: FlorianCH
  body: "\r\n\u2026 always taking the meaning of \u203Anerd\u2039 to new levels, unthought
    of before \u2026"
  created: '2007-03-18 10:54:01'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Uli, \r\n\r\nagain, you make some points and then draw ridiculous conclusions.
    \r\n\r\nIn 1973, ATypI succeeded in lobbying for the World Intellectual Property
    Organization (WIPO) to pass the <a href=\"http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/other/dfat/seldoc/1973/2203.html\">Vienna
    Agreement for the Protection of Type Faces and their International Deposit</a>
    (Vienna, 12 June 1973). The Vienna Agreement envisioned a 15-years protection
    for typeface designs but the Protocol to the Vienna Agreement recommended a minimum
    of 25-years protection. The Vienna Agreement was signed by 10 countries but was
    only ratified by two (Germany and France). Germany introduced a special law (\"Schriftzeichengesetz\")
    that implemented the Agreement. \r\n\r\nIn parallel to the lobbying work that
    would finally result in a legislative protection of typeface designs, ATypI had
    agreed on its own Code Morale. You are somewhat right to call the ATypI Code Morale
    a 'faked camouflage \u201CMoral Code\u201D'. However, the fake paragraph was not
    Article 2, that you keep quoting all over the place: \r\n\r\n<em>\"(2) Members
    consider it to be incompatible with their professional ethics to make a reproduction
    of another member\u2019s typeface, whether identical or slightly modified, irrespective
    of the medium, technique, form or size used, unless the owner of the typeface
    has given his written agreement on terms granting a license.\"</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    fake paragraph was Article 3, that you miraculously ignore from your deliberations:
    \r\n\r\n<em>\"(3) If, after a minimum period of fifteen years of the typeface
    first being offered for sale, the owner refuses to grant a license, members may
    copy the typeface provided that the unlicensed copy is sold under a name which
    is in no way connected with the original name. The manufacturer of a copy made
    under these circumstances must not contravene trade mark rights, industrial property
    rights, copyrights, laws against unfair competition etc., or private agreements.\"</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    plain words, the ATypI Code Morale gave its members a <em>carte blanche</em> to
    rip each other's designs if the designs were older than <strong>fifteen years</strong>.
    \r\n\r\nThis Code Morale may have reflected the <em>de facto</em> reality 30 years
    ago, when the Code was set up, but in the 1990s it was long overdue to be discontinued.
    \r\n\r\nIn 2001, the European Union finally introduced an EU-wide protection of
    typeface designs through the <a href=\"http://europa.eu.int/eur-lex/lex/Notice.do?val=226553%3Acs&lang=en&checktexts=1&checktexte=1\">Directive
    98/71/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 October 1998 on the
    legal protection of designs</a> (the directive was published in 1998 but went
    into effect in 2001). Article 1 of the Directive <strong>explicitly</strong> names
    \"typographic typefaces\" as items to be protected. The directive demands that
    the duration of the protection for typeface designs is <strong>at least 25 years</strong>.
    This provision gives better protection than the one drafted in the old Vienna
    Agreement, and sets higher standards than the old ATypI Code Morale. So in 2004,
    ATypI finally decided that having an industry moral code that gives <strong>lesser
    standards</strong> than the actual legal standards (at least in the E.U.) sends
    a bad signal. Especially the \"license to copy\" included in Article 3 was very
    troubling in the digital era. When the Vienna Agreement and the Code Morale were
    produced, manufacutrers of phototypesetting equipment produced fonts that only
    worked with their own proprietary systems, so the reality was that some successful
    Linotype designs were simply not available in any way for Monotype users, and
    vice versa. However, in the digital era, this restriction no longer applied: digital
    fonts are available in a variety of formats, and with the popularization of OpenType,
    practically the same font can be used on all operating systems. Therefore, the
    <em>excuse</em> to copy designs because of technical limitations no longer applied.
    Therefore, upholding the ATypI Code Morale was completely ridiculous. \r\n\r\nIn
    short, ATypI abandoned Code Morale not because it felt that now it is O.K. to
    copy each others' designs -- the very contrary is true. ATypI abandoned Code Morale
    so that people could no longer claim that they have a \"license to copy\" after
    as little as fifteen years after the first publication of a design. \r\n\r\nThe
    fact that you only picked Article 2 and omitted the -- far more relevant -- Article
    3 of Code Morale in your deliberations makes me think that your motivation really
    are not covered by good faith. I will therefore refrain from further commenting
    on your writings, or discussing them with you. I can now clearly see that instead
    of searching for an objective truth, you\u2019re merely trying to enforce your
    own agenda -- no matter if it\u2019s backed by facts or just by selective arguments
    that you keep inventing. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-19 18:03:03'
- author:
    name: FlorianCH
  body: "Adam, thank you very much for your most useful comments. You made me trust
    in research and common sense again. Especially your latest comment made it clear
    to me that it\u2019s useless to read any of Uli\u2019s pamphlets again. Best regards."
  created: '2007-03-19 20:43:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I have never worked in this font industry, and therefore, as opposed to
    you, I dare to tell the truth about this funny industry.\r\n\r\nI have never worked
    as a psychotherapist, and therefore, as opposed to you, I dare to tell the truth
    about this funny person.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-19 21:21:17'
- author:
    name: FlorianCH
  body: "I\u2019d rather not like to be a martyr for \u2026 fonts."
  created: '2007-03-19 21:36:55'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>In my new documentation http://www.forgers.de/forgers/scangraphic.pdf</cite>\r\n\r\n'Die
    Domain \"www.forgers.de\" wurde gesperrt.'\r\n(The domain \"www.forgers.de\" was
    blocked.)\r\n\r\nUli? Any explanations?"
  created: '2007-03-19 21:43:02'
- author:
    name: FlorianCH
  body: FBI, I suppose.
  created: '2007-03-19 22:03:22'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'People, ignore the troll. Waste of keystrokes. '
  created: '2007-03-19 22:26:04'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> So, when you collect your money check at Linotype, \r\n> you will not dare
    to ask: \u201CWhy did you sell the \r\n> nefarious evil knock-off clone (Bruno
    \r\n> Steinert\u2019s words) \u201CEscorial\u201D?\r\n\r\nOh, don't you worry,
    Ulrich: I dare more than you ever dream of. \r\n\r\nI spoke repeatedly about the
    issues of \"font forging\" with many people from the industry, including Bruno
    Steinert, Veronika Elsner, G\xFCnther Flake and others. However, I will never
    ask presumptious questions such as <em>Why do you sell a copy of \u201CMaurice\u201D
    as \u201CChevalier\u201D with the wrong statement \u201CDigitized by Linotype\u201D?
    Why do you deceive font buyers by stating to be the owner of the design rights
    to the public-domain typeface \u201CChevalier\u201D?</em>, because these questions
    are b.s. \r\n\r\nEarlier on this page, you wrote <em>\"Although the old German
    design law (\u201CGeschmacksmustergesetz\u201D) was already in force in 1946,
    at that time, it did not contain any provisions for font design protection (such
    provisions were added decades later) so that 60 years ago nobody would have tried
    to register a typeface design.\"</em> \r\n\r\n<strong>Exactly the opposite is
    true.</strong> Before the introduction of the special German typeface design law
    (<em>\"Schriftzeichengesetz\"</em>) in 1973, the practice of registering typefaces
    as ordinary design patents (<em>\"Geschmacksmuster\"</em>) was very common. When
    the <em>\"Schriftzeichengesetz\"</em> was introduced, it merely constituted a
    <em>lex specialis</em> for typeface designs, and implemented slightly different
    procedures than for general design patents. In 2004, the old Schriftzeichengesetz
    was discontinued and typeface design protection was again folded into general
    design patent (<em>\"Geschmacksmuster\"</em>) protection. \r\n\r\nIn fact, before
    the introduction of the Prussian Art Protection Law (<em>Kunstschutzgesetz</em>
    in 1907, which was one of the earliest German models for copyright protection),
    the industrial design protection was the only available for type foundries. <b>As
    early as 1894</b> (that is, 113 years ago!),  the Leipzig foundry Schelter &amp;
    Giesecke reigstered two blackletter <strong>Schulfraktur</strong> designs  as
    \"design patents\" (<em>Geschmacksmuster</em>) at the <em>Musterregister des Amtsgerichts
    Leipzig</em>.\r\n\r\nAlso, as soon as the copyright protection was introduced
    in 1907, type foundries examined its applicability to typeface designs. For example,
    in 1911, the said Schelter &amp; Giesecke sued a competitor who produced metal
    fonts with that design. The Reich Supreme Court (<em>Reichsgericht</em>) found
    that the Schulfraktur did not fulfil the \"artistic protection\" criteria based
    on the Kunstschutzgesetz, but <strong>did</strong> fulfil the \"design protection\"
    (Musterschutz) criteria (cit. <em>BGZ 76, 339 ff. -- Schulfraktur</em>). \r\n\r\nInterestingly,
    the supreme court found that no fixed distinction between artistic protection
    and design protection can be drawn, and that the difference is gradual -- the
    greater or lesser aesthetic quality decides. According to the supreme court, work
    could be protected as art only \"if, without considering its artistic value, the
    aesthetic surplus that complements the utilitarian aspect of the form reaches
    a level that can be considered artistic by the contemporary standards.\" \r\n\r\nThe
    general opinion in German-language legal circles is that \"body typefaces\" typically
    do not enjoy copyright protection while \"display typefaces\" can be copyrightable.
    As you very well know, in German history the legal system analyzed the question
    several times, and the outcome was different on different occasion. Therefore,
    it is not possible to generally presume with certainty that a court would affirm
    or deny copyright protection for a particular typeface design. \r\n\r\nFor example
    in 1928, the Higher State Court (<em>Oberlandesgericht</em>) Darmstadt confirmed
    a first-instance judgement that <strong>Tiemann-Mediaeval</strong> (by Walter
    Tiemann for Klingspor 1909\u201311) enjoys copyright protection as a work of art
    (cit. <em>OLG Darmstadt, GRUR 1929, 124 ff. -- Tiemann-Mediaeval</em>). \r\n\r\nAlso
    in 1928, the Austrian Highest Court in Vienna (<em>\xD6sterreichischer Oberster
    Gerichtshof in Wien</em>) confirmed that <strong>Koch Antiqua</strong> (by Rudolf
    Koch for Klingspor 1922) is a copyrightable design. The court found that a typeface
    enjoys artistic protection if \"the individual form treatment and consistent rhythmical
    design\" of the individial letterforms and of the relationship of the characters
    to each other is capable of invoking an \"emotional reaction\". As the Vienna
    court declared, the artistic content of a typeface might be apparent or opaque
    to an artistically incompetent viewer; in the latter case, skilled guidance may
    be necessary to determine whether a work has artistic qualities (cit. <em>P. Abel:
    Urheberrschtsschutz von Druckschriften, in: GRUR 1928, 740 ff.</em>).\r\n\r\nIn
    1942, the Reich Supreme Court confirmed the previous-instance judgement that the
    <strong>Stefan George Schrift</strong> (by Melchior Lechter for Stefan George,
    1907) enjoys copyright protection as a work of art (cit. <em>RG UFITA 15 (1942),
    410 ff.</em>) This ruling also confirmed the arguments of the Tiemann-Mediaeval
    judgement. \r\n\r\nIn 1958, the Supreme Federal Court (<em>Bundesgerichtshof</em>)
    denied copyright protection to the design of <strong>Candida</strong> (Jakob Erbar
    and Walter H\xF6hnisch for Ludwig &amp; Mayer, 1936, cit. <em>BGHZ 27, 351 ff.</em>).
    \r\n\r\nIn 1979 the State Court (<em>Landesgericht</em>) Frankfurt confirmed the
    copyright protection of <strong>Futura</strong> (Paul Renner for Bauer, 1928,
    cit. <em>LG Frankfurt 2/6 O 418/78 vom 29.11.1979</em>). \r\n\r\n> After digging
    into the old German design law, \r\n> I came to the conclusion that Linotype could
    \r\n> have never owned the design right (...) \r\n> to the Chevalier font (...)\r\n\r\nWell,
    to sum up and re-iterate what I've written above: before jumping to conclusions,
    please do some more digging. Your conclusions will be very different then. Not
    that I really care about <em>your</em> conclusions. \r\n\r\nRegards, \r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-19 22:28:30'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Linotype has not yet blocked (i.e. removed) \r\n> the \u201CChevalier\u201D
    font. <strong>Let\u2019s wait and see \r\n> what happens when the cops move in.</strong>\r\n\r\nROTFL.
    Please, Ulrich, be careful. I may choke while hysterically laughing when I read
    some of your comments. You really make my day. Maybe you should switch to writing
    comedy sketches? \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-19 22:39:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That's a good length for you Uli.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-19 23:28:00'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Ulrich, \r\n\r\nfirst of all, my posting is not a \"summary\" of your article.
    I used different sources when writing: \r\n\r\n\u2014 Brinkhoff, Susanne: Computerschriftzeichenschutz:
    der Schutz typographischer Schriftzeichen \u2014 insbesondere Computerschriften
    \u2014 durch das Schriftzeichengesetz und andere Vorschriften. In: Computer im
    Recht, Vol. 4. Marburg: Elwert, 1995. \r\n\u2014 Kelbel, G\xFCnter: Der Schutz
    typographischer Schriftzeichen. Carl Heymanns Verlag, K\xF6ln 1984, p. 387.\r\n\r\nThe
    Candida ruling set the standard that \"body typefaces\" (Brotschriften, Werkschriften)
    such as Candida or Garamond do not enjoy copyright protection. By underlining
    that the ruling is about <strong>body</strong> typefaces, the supreme court explicitly
    did not decide about display typefaces. This means that display typefaces are
    copyrightable if they meet the general copyright criteria (creativity, individuality
    etc.)\r\n\r\nThe Chevalier typeface may be many things but it most certainly is
    not a body typeface. Nobody sets running text with an engraved-caps face, so Chevalier
    obviously is a display typeface. Therefore, its copyrightability is certainly
    not ruled out by the Candida judgement. In other words, it is up to a court to
    decide whether Chevalier is a proprietary design or a public domain design. \r\n\r\nAlso,
    it is not Linotype who claims that it \"owns the design of Chevalier\". Linotype
    only claims that it is entitled to the publication credit (because it is a legal
    successor of the company that commissioned the design and published it). At MyFonts,
    which is a company independent of Linotype, this situation is -- perhaps somewhat
    unluckily -- summarized as <em>\"designed owned by Linotype\"</em>. Perhaps a
    more clear wording is necessary -- I will mention that to the MyFonts team. \r\n\r\nFor
    some mysterious reasons, although I pointed it out several times, you're still
    attributing the letter that you received from RA Klages from Anwaltsoziet\xE4t
    Hertin to Prof. Dr. Hertin. If Professor Hertin had written the letter himself,
    he surely wouldn't have signed it \"Klages, Rechtsanwalt\", would he? So, it was
    not Prof. Hertin who claimed that Chevalier is \"gemeinfrei\" (public domain),
    it was Mr. Klages. One attorney may claim something but until it is confirmed
    by a court, this is at least questionable. \r\n\r\nI've never said that Chevalier
    is or is not a design that still enjoys copyright protection. But until a court
    decides otherwise, there is no reason to assume with certainty that the typeface
    design is public domain. Also, even if Linotype did not own the copyright in the
    strict sense, it would still own the \"credit rights\", i.e. the right to claim
    that it is the successor of the first publisher and distributor of the typeface
    (Haas and Stempel). In that respect, Chevalier is still an \"original Linotype
    typeface\". \r\n\r\nAs far as the matter between Elsner+Flake and Linotype is
    concerned, appropriate contracts existed between both companies that have since
    ended. Elsner+Flake used to have digital data for Chevalier but not the trademark,
    so they marketed the typeface under the name Escorial. Linotype sold this typeface
    rather than proceeding with their own digitization of Chevalier, to which they
    held the trademarks. Why this is so is none of my business. It was an arrangement
    between those two companies. This has nothing to do with forgery. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam
    \r\n"
  created: '2007-03-20 00:21:46'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Uli, please do not post links to sites where it is possible to download fonts--pirated,
    forged, or otherwise.
  created: '2007-03-24 15:29:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"By Any Means Necessary!!\"  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-24 15:46:32'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>People, ignore the troll. Waste of keystrokes.</em>\r\n\r\nIndeed."
  created: '2007-03-24 22:41:45'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Time to roll out [[The Silence Brigade]]....
  created: '2007-04-02 18:56:05'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: .
  created: '2007-08-04 19:35:54'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: .
  created: '2007-08-04 19:36:27'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: .
  created: '2007-08-04 19:36:59'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: .
  created: '2007-08-04 19:37:31'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: .
  created: '2007-08-04 19:38:04'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: .
  created: '2007-08-04 19:38:35'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Yahoo censors this Typophile thread:\r\n\r\nIf you enter \r\n\r\nhttp://search.yahoo.com/search?p=scangraphic+typophile\r\n\r\nyou
    will get no hits at all for this particular thread.\r\n\r\nThe reason for this
    censorship is explained in German language here:\r\n\r\nhttp://verlorenegeneration.de/2009/08/30/zensur-der-suchmaschinen"
  created: '2009-09-27 18:11:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And there I was thinking Yahoo is completely useless.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-27 18:30:59'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<strong>Censorship is most bizarre.</strong>\r\n\r\nNow, some weeks later,
    Yahoo displays again this Typophile thread, if you enter this search string into
    your browser:\r\n\r\nhttp://search.yahoo.com/search;_ylt=A0geu_NZidhKpgIAXxlXNyoA?p=scangraphic+hertin+typophile\r\n\r\nMicrosoft's
    Bing at present also displays the Hertin File, if you enter:\r\n\r\nwww.bing.com/search?q=hertin+site%3Acg.scs.carleton.ca&form=QBRE&filt=all\r\n\r\nfor
    instance these \"Hertin-Akte\" files\r\n\r\n- Die Selbstauftrag-Methode der Hertin
    Anwaltssoziet\xE4t\r\n- Selbstauftrag aus strafrechtlicher Sicht\r\n- Die Straftat-Methode
    der Hertin-Anwaltssoziet\xE4t\r\n- Die bizarre eidesstattliche Versicherung von
    Christlieb Klages\r\n- Hertin und die JBB Rechtsanw\xE4lte in Berlin\r\n\r\nand
    also the taboo file\r\n\r\n- Kai-Volker Oehlrich und die Hamburger Justiz\r\n\r\nbut
    Bing does not display the taboo file\r\n\r\n- Die Hertin-Akte - Ein Jahr spaeter
    2008\r\n\r\nHowever, if you enter\r\n\r\nwww.google.com/search?hl=de&q=hertin+site%3Awww.sanskritweb.net\r\n\r\nboth
    taboo files are displayed.\r\n\r\nThis applies to the USA. In Germany, Google
    received a \"court order\" by the Hamburg courts and is not allowed to display
    the taboo files. However, if you directly visit my website\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/hertin.htm\r\n\r\nyou
    will see all Hertin-Akte files, and also the taboo files, because the Hamburg
    courts censored browsers, not my websites.\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-16 16:48:40'
date: '2006-11-04 13:46:25'
node_type: forum
title: Font forgeries by Scangraphic

---
