---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: This thread is not just another [[Notan]] / [[Bouma]] / [[Readability]] ramble.
  Instead it's a place to let us post visual examples of excellent, ( or vile ) Notan
  to discuss. Samples could be from a font, be just a glyph pair, or come from non-digital
  sources such as stone carving, calligraphy etc. Who's first in line?
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The work of Joachim M\xFCller-Lanc\xE9 is impressive in terms of notan play.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-08 00:17:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Which face? 'Shuriken boy'? "Tiny Tim?" Samples please! Also, Joachim, What
    do you think? Are you out there?
  created: '2006-11-08 00:23:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "AFAIR the best one is his most-recent Morisawa winner.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-08 00:28:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am surprised Bloemsma was not Hrant's first choice?\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-08 01:16:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "This is a great idea for a thread Eben!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-08 01:17:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) I wasn't ranking.\r\n2) I was giving you guys a break.\r\n3) Joachim's
    work is more explicitly notanic.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-08 01:35:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here is one that should evoke some debate:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/deadhistory_3586.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-08 01:35:49'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Chris, what observations would you like to make about Dead History? When
    I look at it I see an experiment with pushing boundries between type styles &
    merging them. Certainly it's more successful than you might guess it would be
    & that took some skill. But I don't know that it was an experiment that emphaized
    with Notan. Maybe I 'm wrong. What do you think? Why?\r\n\r\nBTW here is a sample
    I got from Font Font of 'Lance' which is, I think, the font Hrant is referring
    to:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Egypt_6595.gif]"
  created: '2006-11-08 03:54:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No way, not Lanc\xE9.\r\n\r\nI think it starts with an \"R\" and I think
    it's in \"Language Culture Type\", which is in the garage right now so too dark
    and cold for me to get at. Could somebody check his copy?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-08 04:12:57'
- author:
    name: David Jonathan Ross
  body: "Lanc\xE9's Japanese/Latin face Shirokuro doesn't begin with R, but it's in
    <em>Language Culture Type</em> and the figure/ground play is striking. Not to
    mention Shirokuro means \"black and white\" in Japanese. The other faces in the
    book are Nichiyou Daiku, Pesaro, and Shuriken Boy, just in case one of those helps
    to jog your memory.\r\n\r\nAs a relative newcomer, I've recently been rummaging
    around the archives doing notan research. I'm especially interested in concrete
    examples, so this thread is of special interest to me as well.\r\n\r\nDavid"
  created: '2006-11-08 08:43:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben,\r\nI never said Dead History was a notanic study.  It is a deconstruction
    study if anything. I don't want to say just yet why I think it has relevance,
    I am hoping for some looking and thinking by others first.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-08 12:40:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Who\u2019s first in line?</em>\r\n\r\nDude, you're as bad as Ms Giggles
    :-)\r\nIt's your thread -- walk the talk."
  created: '2006-11-08 13:28:13'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Hrant: is shirokuro the one you mean?\r\n\r\nhttp://kamedesign.com/e00jan_shirokuro.html\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    I aught to examine it more closely but my initial impression is that it's very
    much about playing with duality of black & white within the context of the glyph's
    em box - not about creating blanced glyph realtionships across a word. So I don't
    get why it's useful in a text face context; however successful it is in it's own
    dualistic context. Hrant, if this is your example I am not sure what you want
    to get across with it. Maybe you can help me see what I am missing... It is an
    interesting extreme example of playing with b/w or figure/ground though. I would
    have placed an example image for my fellow typophiles but the site asks for NO
    reproduction so I respected that. Use the link. Hrant, if this isn't the one you
    mean you really are going to have to fetch the thing yourself!\r\n\r\nRE: walk
    the walk.\r\n\r\nYes yes. I am hastening slowly. I want to post something I can
    get behind. Something really useful like your Wh example or Egypt. Those were
    great.\r\n\r\nChris: Okay okay. I guess I will have to remain puzzled for now."
  created: '2006-11-08 16:54:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So Chris, \"decent type designers have been giving equal importance to both
    blacks and whites for centuries\", but you come up with Dead History, a black-centric
    exercise if there ever was one? Fusing the blacks of two very different fonts
    to get a new font. Right.\r\n\r\nTo me you count as a \"decent type designer\",
    so you must have at least been keeping an eye out for exceptional instances of
    notan, right? Even if you might not have made anything notanically worthy yet
    (which is actually the case with me). Don't you go looking around now - you should
    have a few example sitting right there in your head...\r\n\r\n> It\u2019s your
    thread \u2014 walk the talk.\r\n\r\nI think providing one example as a starter
    might have been a good idea, but I actually advise people starting a new thread
    to give it some room/time to breathe, so you get more of what's in people's heads
    instead of putting things in their heads. In fact I thought Eben's second post
    was way too anxious.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nYes, Shirokuro is it. Is it heavy or what?
    And bi-script on top of it.\r\nBTW, I will note that it has <cite>two</cite> \"r\"s
    in it, just not one at the beginning.  ;-)\r\nThanks David, and thanks Eben  for
    digging up the link.\r\n\r\n> it\u2019s very much about playing with duality of
    black & white\r\n> within the context of the glyph\u2019s em box - not about creating\r\n>
    blanced glyph realtionships across a word.\r\n\r\nCheck out the last word in my
    first post.\r\n\r\nThis goes back to my opinion that there are different types
    of notan, for different purposes, most centrally display versus text. BTW, display
    notan is one place I think chirography can be very useful; and that's why I once
    paid money for Ex Ponto (and I still don't regret it). Digressing dangerously.\r\n\r\n>
    I am not sure what you want to get across with it. \r\n\r\nIt's an example of
    a designer consciously and formally aware of notan.\r\nUnlike what some people
    would have us believe, that is very rare.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-08 18:13:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hrant,\r\nI will quote myself, perhaps you missed it the first time:\r\n\"I
    never said Dead History was a notanic study.\"\r\nLook at the Dead History font
    with fresh eyes and look for something else operating there. There is a point
    to it.\r\n\r\nI notice that you have not posted an example either? I don't mean
    your own work. I won't post mine because, in all honesty, I never understood the
    meaning of notan in the way you describe it--I understand more now after the recent
    thread prior to this one. I would only say that I attempt to have figure and ground
    in a harmonious relationship which locks them together.  If this is called notan
    or not is not of much concern to me--I am just trying to make good type. Perhaps
    Froggy may be part of the discussion (not to say it is notanic) after someone
    takes a harder look at Dead History though. That is by no means to say that I
    think I have been successful in the execution, it just means I strive to be.\r\n\r\nIf
    you want examples of type that I feel works towards equal importance of figure
    and ground, I would say Frutiger.  I don't really \"look around\" much. I prefer
    not to be influenced any more than I can help. I will also name one of the faces
    you hate, Bodoni--not because it is easy to read, it isn't. Just because of the
    positive and negative form. Legato is another one which works for me.  Most of
    Dwiggins stuff as well. I doubt if he ever thought about it but it was just within
    him. Some of the blackletter faces and Constructivist faces have it as well. I
    would say that Zapft's work generally does not, it is more linear an gestural.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-08 20:03:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...okay. I guess I will have to remain puzzled for now.\"\r\n\r\nPuzzled
    is a good thing Eben, as long as you pursue what puzzles you.  Don't just wait
    for an \"answer\".\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-08 20:20:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I notice that you have not posted an example either?\r\n\r\nI'm the one
    countering your claim that it's common, remember?\r\n\r\nAnyway Legato and Shirokuro
    are the two best -and nicely \"opposed\"- examples that I know of - and I for
    one have been paying attention*. And I think it's very important to pay attention
    to what others are doing - that's a difference between Design and Art. Being influenced
    by good things is good for one's own results. It's good for the user.\r\n\r\n*
    And if you haven't, how do you know that \u201Cdecent type designers have been
    giving equal importance to both blacks and whites for centuries\u201D?\r\n\r\n>
    I won\u2019t post mine because, in all honesty, I never understood\r\n> the meaning
    of notan in the way you describe it\r\n\r\nHopefully these discussions aren't
    merely a means to acquire new terms, but to understand new things, to see them
    in new ways. When you say \"I am just trying to make good type\" I would reply
    that yes, of course you are, good for you, but to make <cite>better</cite> type
    you have to keep looking, listening and thinking. Maybe you are (sufficiently)
    notan-conscious, or even notan-savvy; but those who are not have a lesser chance
    of making good notan. True, awareness is not an absolute requirement (with Dwiggins
    a great example of that) but it can only help.\r\n\r\n> I would say that Zapft\u2019s
    work generally does not\r\n\r\nI agree.\r\nAnd one would have to suspect that
    chirography has something to do with that...\r\nAnyway.\r\n\r\n> Puzzled ... puzzles
    ...\r\n\r\nWhat's with the Zen master routine? Man, you can be worse than me!\r\nIs
    <cite>relevance</cite> completely moot, and admitting a mistake unthinkable?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-08 21:14:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Shirokuro is pretty artsy for you no? It is also not very readable and it's
    a display face--All surprising given your disdain for dislay faces. I thought
    the holy grail of notan was in increased readabilty?  Legato is at least trying
    to go that way.  I don't think it is any more readable than any decent sans. I
    like Legato and it reads fine but I see no quantum leap there.  I would be curious
    if you know of any unbiased testing of readabilty between it and say Formata,
    Frutiger, Thesis, etc.?\r\n\r\n\"is relevance completely moot, and admitting a
    mistake unthinkable?\"\r\n\r\nI have no idea what that is all about.  Care to
    explain? The only person I know of around here who thinks admitting mistakes is
    unthinkable is Bush--and perhapes some others? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-08 22:08:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"that\u2019s a difference between Design and Art\"\r\n\r\nPerhaps that is
    your take on it, I don't know, I have never been an artist but I have been a designer
    for at least 45 years.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-08 22:15:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "RE: <cite> What\u2019s with the Zen master routine? Man, you can be worse
    than me!\r\nIs relevance completely moot, and admitting a mistake unthinkable?
    </cite>\r\n\r\nEven if I did live in a Zen temple in Japan for a while I am not
    making that claim! No, I am just saying that I don't get what Chris may be challenging
    me to see. And that I am willing to suspend judgement. I have to admit I feel
    dubious about the example. But I will keep thinking about it anyway. Chris, how
    about a hint? \r\n\r\nI am almost ready to give my own visual examples to chew
    on. If you want to get started early - my example is not a Font, instead, inspired
    by Breim I am going to look at a pair of glyph combos across a series of typefaces.
    They are 'La' & 'ra'. Now to find a nice pre-digital Bembo or Caslon where the
    flag on the r is not quite so tamed...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-08 22:20:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"But I will keep thinking about it anyway. Chris, how about a hint?\"\r\n\r\nRead
    Hrant's review of Legato in Typographica. He posted the link somewhere here.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-08 22:33:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"my example is not a Font\"\r\n\r\nNeither is this one.  It is a logo I
    designed several years ago for Water Quality.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/H2O-quality-Loz_5976.gif]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-08 22:36:40'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Chris, I am beginning to suspect that you associate Notan with a kind of
    tricky suspension between views. Eg - it's a drop/it's a Q. A related kind of
    suspension seems to be present in Shirokuro and it Dead history too.  Am I getting
    warmer?\r\n\r\nHere is my sample. It's derived from online renderings, scans &
    assorted other sources. It is imperfect. Let's try to use it anyway.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/comparingforms_5749.gif]\r\n\r\n1.
    is a bembo revival about which I make no claim except that it has a Bemboish r.
    Note the 'flag' shaped flag or arm.\r\n2. is an 'ra' from metal 72 pt Caslon.
    \r\n3. is Big Caslon\r\n4. is Univers 65 Bold\r\n5. is Scala\r\n6. is Lucida console\r\n7.
    is Patria\r\n\r\nLet's start by looking at the 'ra' in rahja.\r\n\r\nThe problem
    it presents as I understand it is that the flag or the r and the top of the a
    may look as if they are going trhe clash unless you make arrangements to avoid
    it. When I look at the older typefaces aI see that the 'r's arm is bigger & it
    is the 'a' that accomodates it. When I look at Univers this sitiation is reversed
    to a some degree. The 'a' becomes stronger & the r's arm is shorter. After that
    even in serif faces such as Scala this trend continues ( obviosly not all  typfaces
    but you get my drift I hope ) despite the fact that the shape Scala's a is quite
    bembo-ish. Then there is the Monospace. I threw this in because it illutrates
    an modern but opposite condition where the r must become more assertive to help
    fill the monospace. In fact it has to get a vertical serif to appear balanced!
    Thinking about Courier ( not shown) you have a less asserive 'r' made possible
    by long serifs. And finally there is Patria. In Patria I see a synthesis of a
    strong but not wide r with a 'shy' but un'deformed' a. Each of these is a pretty
    succesful example of managing a tricky balance of forms to create   Notan that
    works. As you compare solutions you are looking at Notan in play. \r\n\r\nI have
    more to say but I will leave it at that for now. Hrant thanks for rendering Patria
    for me. "
  created: '2006-11-08 23:52:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben,\r\nThink of a continium where the Water Quality logo is at the right
    end and Dead History is at the left end. Shirokuro and Legato are between the
    2 extremes but I am not sure which is closer to Dead History and which is closer
    to Water Quality although my gut says Shirokuro is closer to Dead History. \r\nThis
    continium is not a better or worse thing.  It is just more clearly one thing than
    another. Nothing in this string is either good or bad for this purpose.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-09 00:08:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...Eg - it\u2019s a drop/it\u2019s a Q\"\r\n\r\nIn this case, it is only
    a drop because of the Q :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-09 00:15:10'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Chris, are you contrasting glyphs that have many identifying cues ( maybe
    too many really ) with those that barely have enough to read as the glyph they
    semi-represent? That's the only sense I have been able to dig into so far. \r\n\r\nBTW
    - the reason I built my example in the way I did to show that Notanic consideration
    isn't the province or flavor of 'special' fonts but relvant to all type design
    - especially text and workhorse faces."
  created: '2006-11-09 02:12:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"are you contrasting glyphs that have many identifying cues \"\r\n\r\nNo,
    it is much simpler than that--the real clue is the salient point Hrant makes in
    his description of Legato. \r\nThink about it til tomorrow--at which point I will
    spill the beans. It is nowhere near as complicated as you seem to be seeing it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-09 02:31:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Eben you wanted some scans of original Caslon 'La' examples. \r\n\r\nHere
    are some from Lady Willoughby's Diary. This is 1844, so it's 19th century ink,
    but I think the original type, as this was the first revival.\r\n\r\nThese are
    both large sizes. The first is I think the Double Pica, a title. The second is
    Great Primer.  \r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Lady Willoughby La_5450.gif]\r\n\r\nI'll
    post some 'ra' combos tomorrow. \r\n\r\nThe issues here are more what I, following
    Doyald Young's usage in his 'Fonts and Logos' book, would call 'color', rather
    than 'notan'. Specifically, here the Double Pica size here has too long a leg
    on the L, and the spike a bit large. The Great Primer colors a lot better, I think.
    \ \r\n\r\nNote that the a on the Double Pica is wider, but the d narrower. "
  created: '2006-11-09 03:23:16'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Placed in this context Patria looks pretty darn good. The visual--or, as
    I like to say: optical-grammatical--integrity of the wordforms or boumas the letters
    make is really quite remarkable in comparison with some of the others, or are
    some of the others just badly kerned? \r\n\r\nI think the Patria setting shares
    this with the Scala.\r\n\r\nAs Eben has hinted, it seems to have a lot to do with
    the black of the letters having been set up with an eye to the consistency of
    the white.\r\n\r\nI'm reminded of Gerrit Noordzij's remarks about the 'consolidation
    of the word,' and the white being 'my only holdfast.'\r\n\r\nHaving said this
    about Patria and Scala, I'd also say that they exist in different 'notanic [or
    dark / light] registers'"
  created: '2006-11-09 03:24:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Chris, I think you mean this: <cite> Hrant - 'disposing of the linking between
    the two edges of the black' </cite> I think you are saying that the outlines don't
    follow ductus... it sure as hell can't be <cite> while still appearing conventional
    to the reader </cite> now <em>can it?</em>\r\n\r\nSorry that's the best I can
    figure out. So spill those beans if ya got em!\r\n\r\nPeter, I am not 100% sure
    that the kering values are correct for all of these. I don't own all of them all
    & some of them were rendered on the web - sub optimal for sure. Actually if folks
    have sample of these or other faces they want to compare - please do. \r\n\r\nRe:
    Patria. I agree Patria does indeed have more interplay than we see in the other
    post Univers modern faces. Caslon has more than I realized & Bembo too. All that
    weird figgiting. Those odd details. But hey, they are DOING something. In some
    ways Patria is even weirder than Bembo & Caslon. In other ways it is tame next
    to Caslon. What I think is striking is the way that modern faces make the letters
    feel so isolated and unitary in comparison. I think this effect lingers in Scala
    and most of the faces being made. There are exceptions by degrees and they feel
    somehow a bit more magical and pleasing because of it. "
  created: '2006-11-09 07:26:14'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Eben, greater visual (optical-grammatical) integrity is something different
    than 'interplay'. I was thinking of a quality of the whole. It's something about
    the object-like word image.\r\n\r\nAlso my \"different \u2018notanic [or dark
    / light] registers\u2019\" might be just another term for colour 'registers'.
    \ This part was not to signal a better / worse comparison.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-11-09 12:41:48'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tokyo_pictograms_6673.jpg]\r\nNot to
    hijack the thread more a personal effort to comprehend notan, my current understanding
    is that these Tokyo pictograms represent good (or considered) notan or am I fooling
    myself?\r\n\r\nIs the best place to look for good notan in the base character
    or in the character in its environment (as per William\u2019s samples but maybe
    not cleaned up) or does one naturally follow the other?\r\n\r\nTim\r\n\r\n{edit:
    what's going on with the leading here?}"
  created: '2006-11-09 15:01:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't know where you got your samples Eben, but the spacing is wrong on
    the Univers for sure.\r\n\r\nHere is a graphic of 3 of the faces you showed.  Notice
    the difference in the Univers.  It is set with default spacing and stock kerning.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Largo-rahja_6032.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-09 16:31:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ok Eben, here's the ra combination in two other Caslon sizes. These are scanned
    from James Mosley's facsimile edition of Caslon's 1766 'Specimen of Printing Types'.
    The top is from the Pica 2 and the bottom from the Long Primer 1.  \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Caslon
    ra comparison_4160.gif]\r\n\r\nHere is a scan of some of Shirokuro, referenced
    by Hrant as an example of good use of notan. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Shirokiro_5449.gif]"
  created: '2006-11-09 19:15:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "First things first:\r\nThere is very much good and bad notan, but it depends
    on the objective (like any aspect of Design). A given notan \"scheme\" can be
    good for aesthetic enjoyment, or immersive reading, or making people nauseous,
    or whatever, but it is always good or bad for various things. Everything does
    matter, but in different ways.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n> Shirokuro is pretty artsy for
    you no?\r\n> ... your disdain for dislay faces.\r\n> I thought the holy grail
    of notan was in increased readabilty?\r\n\r\nAre you maybe starting to realize
    that you don't really know what I've been talking about? To me it's now clear
    that you don't. And considering how much typing I've been doing here lately I
    think the ball is in your court to understand more than in mine to explain.\r\n\r\nBut
    hey, what the heck:\r\n1) There is no holy grail.\r\n2) Notan is a thing, and
    it's always there. It doesn't have a goal.\r\n3) A designer can leverage notan
    in different ways depending on what he wants to do, for whom. A good designer
    does this awarely, a bad one does it Vegas style.\r\n\r\nConcerning readability
    (which is only one place notan is relevant) my contention has been that the two
    halves need to be treated equally (and that chirography/painting inherently goes
    against this). Readability-directed notan is NOT the case in Shirokuro, and that's
    wonderful. The only think I have disdain for is pretending (to understand/leverage
    notan, in whatever way).\r\n\r\n> Legato ... I don\u2019t think it is any more
    readable than any decent sans.\r\n\r\nPure conjecture.\r\n\r\nPlus you're firmly
    in the Emigre/Shinn camp of\r\n\"no inherent readability\" so what's the point.\r\n\r\n>
    I like Legato and it reads fine but I see no quantum leap there.\r\n\r\nSometimes
    a quantum leap is the subtlest thing that can be. To see Legato's leap you'd have
    to be acutely aware of notan, how letters form it, and what can be good about
    it. Otherwise it's just another flavor-of-the-week that might sell well or not.\r\n\r\n>
    I would be curious if you know of any unbiased testing of\r\n> readabilty between
    it and say Formata, Frutiger, Thesis, etc.?\r\n\r\nOf course not. But this is
    not about the numbers anyway. It's about thought: seeing the good kind, applauding
    it, and hopefully acting on it.\r\n\r\n>> is relevance completely moot, and admitting
    a mistake unthinkable?\r\n> I have no idea what that is all about. Care to explain?
    \r\n\r\nDead History is irrelevant here; and I think you came to realize that.\r\n\r\n(Eben,
    the Zen comment was directed at Chris.)\r\n\r\n> I have never been an artist\r\n\r\nEach
    of us is partly an artist. As you were saying about \"notan\", we shouldn't get
    hung up on terminology. It's not what your boss or your wife call you, it's what
    you are that counts.\r\n\r\n> Think of a continium where the Water Quality logo
    is at the\r\n> right end and Dead History is at the left end. Shirokuro and\r\n>
    Legato are between the 2 extremes\r\n\r\nI'm not seeing any such thing.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nEben,
    your comparison can be revealing, but there are some textbook monumental obstacles
    here, such as apparent size, intended point size,  lo-res bitmap fidelity, etc.
    Frankly I don't envy you trying to do this!  :-)\r\n\r\n> In Patria I see a synthesis
    of a strong but not wide r\r\n\r\nI hope it's actually slightly wide - which is
    in fact a conscious sacrifice of readability for the sake of reinforcing the style.
    This is a balance central to Design, and foreign to Art.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n> Placed
    in this context Patria looks pretty darn good.\r\n\r\nI'm very glad to hear you
    say that. I guess you've gone back on your former agreement with JFP that the
    forms don't hold together.\r\n\r\nThe thing is, Patria is still way too black-centric.
    If it does enjoy good (text) notan that's most probably due to a combination of
    dumb luck (hey, I'm entitled to some too you know), a black-directed minding of
    spacing (a rejection of the form->space->kern idiom) and a concerted effort at
    functional divergence.\r\n\r\n> Patria and Scala ... exist in different \u2018notanic
    [or dark / light] registers\u2019\r\n\r\nCould you explain?\r\n\r\nBTW, I really
    like the \"La\" in William's \"Lady Willoughby\u2019s Diary\" samples. Color is
    one thing, but the interletter notan seems great.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n>> \"disposing
    of the linking between the two edges of the black\"\r\n> I think you are saying
    that the outlines don\u2019t follow ductus\u2026\r\n> it sure as hell can\u2019t
    be while still appearing conventional\r\n> to the reader now can it?\r\n\r\nThe
    insides and outsides (so to speak) of the black have been disjoined (which is
    something more than saying they don't follow something or other). This is in direct
    violation of the moving front.\r\n\r\nAs for appearing conventional while doing
    this, the way this is possible is that there's an essential difference between
    conscious  expectation and subconscious effectiveness. Unless you meant that fonts
    that follow ductus can't appear conventional: I assume you mean those that follow
    it slavishly (for example giving the \"Z\" a thin diagonal) and would point out
    that it doesn't have to be slavish to be relevant, and a font certainly can appear
    conventional while \"alluding\" -even strongly- to chirography.\r\n\r\n> In some
    ways Patria is even weirder than Bembo & Caslon.\r\n\r\nThank you!  :-)\r\nAnd
    (I hope) it's a \"good weird\", not merely an eccentric one (those Brits :-).\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n>
    these Tokyo pictograms represent good (or considered) notan or am I fooling myself?\r\n\r\nThey
    are \"considered\" notan (see how there are white spaces conveying things). Whether
    they are good or not can be debated - I think some are good and some not. Overall
    it feels like <cite>exhibiting</cite> notan has been made into an objective there,
    which is too much Art (\"Look at meeeee!\") and not enough Design (\"Look, and
    use.\")\r\n\r\nSo it follows that the answer to:\r\n> Is the best place to look
    for good notan in the base character\r\n> or in the character in its environment
    (as per William\u2019s samples\r\n> but maybe not cleaned up) or does one naturally
    follow the other?\r\n\r\nis: it depends on what the font is for. Notan is there
    for individual letters as well as letters in context; the effectiveness of a given
    notan scheme depends on what the font (or shape, or collection of shapes) is intended
    to do.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-09 20:19:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Chris, I prefer the metrics of the original Univers, without the kerning
    to the right of the r.\r\n\r\nI also think the r_a in the Big Caslon is too tight.\r\n\r\nI
    used to go for the tight, even look that can be achieved with kerning, but now
    I am more interested in the unkerned look of letterpress, especially for traditional
    serifed faces. I just did an OpenType version of Paradigm, which I designed in
    1995, and have revised several characters and redone the metrics. In 1995 I was
    going for irregular shapes and reducing \"excess\" white space between characters
    by negative kerning. Now I've reined in the more frisky letter shapes (r and g
    no longer protrude above the x-height) and left more \"interest\" in the spacing.
    Above: 1995. Below, 2006.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LRpara_6533.png]"
  created: '2006-11-09 20:31:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I also think the r_a in the Big Caslon is too tight.\r\n\r\nWhich might
    however come back to my warning about scale/intent/viewing.\r\n\r\n> I am more
    interested in the unkerned look of letterpress\r\n\r\nWhat do you think the readers
    of your text faces benefit from?\r\n\r\n> I just did an OpenType version of Paradigm,
    which I designed in\r\n> 1995, and have revised several characters and redone
    the metrics.\r\n\r\nI wish Emigre had done that with Mrs Eaves.\r\n\r\nIn Paradigm
    (which looks like a cool design btw) I do think the new spacing is better by being
    looser, but I think \"interest\" for its own sake is anti-text. Like when you
    have such an accomodating \"a\" it's a shame to let the \"r\" cause its classical
    issues (thereby causing the \"ah\" to look too tight in comparison) when it doesn't
    need to. The degree to which one let's a character/glyph \"be itself\" is certainly
    not limited to the black, but -in a text face- bouma cohesion is critical (just
    like how loose tracking can decimate readability).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-09 20:47:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Pure conjecture.\"\r\n\r\nEverything you say is pure conjecture with a
    bit of \"The Emporer's New Clothes\" thrown in to boot. The only concrete thing
    you have said is, \"The insides and outsides (so to speak) of the black have been
    disjoined\". That is the exact relevance of Dead History (Eben, yes, you got it!).\r\n\r\n\">
    I would be curious if you know of any unbiased testing of\r\n> readabilty between
    it and say Formata, Frutiger, Thesis, etc.?\r\n\r\nOf course not. But this is
    not about the numbers anyway. It\u2019s about thought: seeing the good kind, applauding
    it, and hopefully acting on it.\"\r\n\r\nIf you believe that then you are far,
    far more in the \"Emigre\" camp than you try to falsely place me.\r\n\r\nWhat
    you have said clearly is that \"Chirography and painting\" are wrong, bad evil
    and need to be fought and exterminated.  That hardly is showing the way to something
    constructive.  If 10% of what you type were of a constructive nature rather than
    a destructive nature, you might have come up with something by now other than
    disdain for anyone who does not bow and scrape to your dismissive utterances.
    \ Try saying something constructive, it may just get you more of the approval
    you crave.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-09 20:57:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>What do you think the readers of your text faces benefit from?</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    if they are reading traditional serifed forms, I think they will benefit from
    something closer to the unkerned metrics associated with the old faces, because
    such metrics are integral to the synergy of those type designs. \r\n\r\n<em>\u201Cinterest\u201D
    for its own sake is anti-text.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat I mean by where the \"interest\"
    is: it's the more active dimension of the design. It's kind of like choosing the
    sweet spot between making the letter shapes more diverse or the spacing more diverse
    -- striking a balance.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-09 21:12:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chris, the difference between my saying that Legato approaches an ideal of
    readability and your saying that it's not measurably more readable isn't that
    one of us has Proof and the other doesn't, it's that my strance is based on an
    idea while yours is based on a lack of ideas.\r\n\r\n> What you have said clearly
    is that \u201CChirography and painting\u201D\r\n> are wrong, bad evil and need
    to be fought and exterminated. \r\n\r\nMaybe you're the one who should have replaced
    Rumsfeld.\r\n\r\nYou're only listening to yourself.\r\n\r\n> That is the exact
    relevance of Dead History\r\n\r\nNo. Dead History is a formalistic hack job of
    two black-centric fonts. It does not break any sort of order in the black, not
    for the sake of the white nor anything else. It breaks some -imagined- rules concerning
    classification, and only for the sake of breaking them. Comparing it to Legato
    is ludicrous.\r\n\r\n> ... such metrics are integral to the synergy of those type
    designs.\r\n\r\nI don't think that's how readers function.\r\n\r\n> it\u2019s
    the more active dimension of the design.\r\n\r\nWhy?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-09 21:29:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> \u2026 such metrics are integral to the synergy of those type designs.\r\n</em>[Hrant
    said]<em> I don\u2019t think that\u2019s how readers function.</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    you can play Bach on anything, and irrespective of how the listeners function,
    the preference seems to be for acoustic instruments. In other words, there is
    a sympathetic relationship between form and the original technology for which
    it was created. I'm not proposing that one takes no advantage of new technology,
    just don't overdo the kerning.\r\n\r\nAlso, people who make stuff, whether artists,
    designers, engineers, whatever, often have the wackest reasons, and can be totally
    f*cked up, but that doesn't have much bearing on how well their creations work.
    The Garamond typeface was based on some kind of metaphysical theory of I and O
    (and the Godess Io?) apparently, what was no doubt considered serious thinking
    at the time, yet the type still rules long after its theoretical criteria have
    become obsolete. Go figure.\r\n\r\n<em> it\u2019s the more active dimension of
    the design.\r\n</em>[Hrant said]<em> Why?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm really trying to get
    a different balance between lettershape and spacing. Before the letters were a
    bit wonky and spacing pretty slick, now I am trying to make the letterforms better
    behaved, and the spacing more varied. So I described more variety of spacing as
    making that dimension of the typeface more active."
  created: '2006-11-09 22:01:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> ... the preference seems to be for acoustic instruments.\r\n\r\n1) That's
    conscious, while immersive reading is not.\r\n2) Maybe it's because of what people
    are used to hearing Bach in. If you wrote a new classical composition (equivalent
    to making a new \"old style\" font) and broadcast it played with a synthesizer
    for a few years, they might not like the acoustic version when subsequently introduced.\r\n3)
    Maybe people prefer acoustic instruments in general.\r\n\r\n> there is a sympathetic
    relationship between form and\r\n> the original technology for which it was created.
    \r\n\r\nThis is plausible.\r\nBut how to decide where a new font fits?\r\nThis
    seems to be wading into the font classification quagmire...\r\n\r\nIn the end,
    to me faking bad spacing is just as bad as faking rough contours.\r\nNot that
    it's useless, but it seems too style and not enough substance.\r\n\r\n> the wackest
    reasons, and can be totally ----ed up, but that\r\n> doesn\u2019t have much bearing
    on how well their creations work.\r\n\r\nI'm not seeing the connection here.\r\n\r\nBut
    to your point: I think a lot of that is post-rationalization (or convenient rationalization).
    Like how when Hangul was invented, Sejong had to make up a story of how it preserved
    the divinity of Chinese (which was preferred by the social elite at the time).
    Also, no matter how theoretically/spiritually inclinded a designer is, the need
    to make something useful to the mainstream usually pushes the innovation/idea
    down the Subtle Zone, making it non-obvious. Think about how Grandjean \"tamed\"
    the RdR.\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m really trying to get a difference balance between lettershape
    and spacing.\r\n\r\nThat can be an interesting angle.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-09 22:18:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Eben, so can you explain to me what is your concern here with the La and
    ra?\r\n\r\nAs I said, to me the issue is one of even color, meaning visually the
    same average density of black on white. \r\n\r\nDo you know Doyald Young's 'Fonts
    and Logos'? He has wonderful studies of the evolution of his logos, starting with
    hand drawn versions of standard typefaces, and then adjusting them, partly for
    even color of the given combination of letters. The story of the evolution of
    the Prudential logo is particularly revealing.  \r\n\r\nAt any rate, to me 'notan'
    makes more sense for individual letters, where you have closed or nearly closed
    counters. The way Frutiger talks about it, if I remember correctly, is how the
    white in the inner counter relates to the white on the outside of the line. What
    is at issue here is whether the whites and black 'lock' as Chris put it, or 'click'
    as I put it, or 'become part of the page' as Cyrus Highsmith put it.  \r\n\r\nAnd
    'color' has more to do with how the letters in mass, next to other letters. Here
    both the design of the letter and the spacing affects whether you succeed with
    even color. \r\n\r\nDo others see this distinction between color and notan?\r\n\r\nEg,
    the 'notan' in Nick's two examples is the same; the color in the second one is
    better, to my eyes. In my Caslon La scans, all the letters have good 'notan'--they
    become part of the page, with b & w vitality--but the color is much more even
    and better in the lower example. "
  created: '2006-11-09 22:34:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben,\r\nThe continuum I spoke of earlier is my projection of figure/ground
    (or what I might call inner and out space).  The continuum starts resolved yet
    disjoined (but not harmoniously locked) as in the Dead History far left example
    (this is our \u201Cnot enough to be good\u201D extreme). It end at far right with
    the Water Quality logo which is two forms locked in a syntactic relationship which
    goes beyond their form in an attempt to be a referent to a meaning outside of
    them\u2014Water Quality as opposed to just Q and Drop (this is our \u201Ctoo much
    to be good\u201D extreme).  Both of the opposite polls operate by having disjoined
    figure/ground. This does not operate in all of the glyphs in Dead History, not
    the \"o\" or \"a\" for example. The positive and negative disjoin by being 2 different
    fonts interjected on each other. There is no specific meaning attempted though.
    It is a formal relationship that still just refers to the letterform. Dead History
    \"H\" is just trying to be an H. There may be some connotation perceived by someone
    looking at the type but this is not consistent or intended. The Water Quality
    logo, on the other hand, is intended to have a connotation other than just Q and
    Droplet. The point of the continuum is to place items between the 2 poles to see
    where they fall in relationship to others. If we, for the sake of a beginning
    argument, agree that the typeface Legato has something of what we are looking
    to define (call that notan only if you like) and place it between the outer poles,
    what would go after it and what before? Something after it would be the desired
    state we seek. Something beyond it to the right would be \u201Ctoo much\u201D
    of it to remain positive. If I am testing items which might be too much, I might
    postulate that \u201Cmeaning outside of or greater than\u201D the glyphs would
    be too much\u2014hence the Water Quality logo, You can replace the Water Quality
    logo with whatever you might deem \u201Ctoo much\u201D as well to come up with
    another in-excess quality to create an ordinal system with. By the same token,
    you can replace the Dead History face with some other item which has \u201Ctoo
    little of\u201D the desired trait. In my initial post in this thread, I said that
    the Dead History face was \u201Cone that should evoke some debate\u201D. We can
    use this technique to test where we place visual examples fall next to each-other
    in relation to any 2 variables.  We can even place a very chirographic sample
    at far left and something antithetic to it at right and again place Legato as
    our zero point. The point of this is to have then a collection of variables and
    ratings. The value is in seeing what variables are in operation as well as having
    something physical and visible to compare and describe rather than just philosophical
    terms. Think of it like discussing what might be a recipe for good soup.  You
    can name ingredients but you have to determine relative quantities before you
    can test the soup meaningfully. You might also find out that a particular ingredient
    needs to be left out completely.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-10 01:01:04'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "William: Thank you again for posting those scans! \r\n\r\nRE your question:
    I do think there are many differences between 'Color' & 'Notan'. Here are a few
    ways they differ:\r\n\r\n<strong>Specificity</strong> \r\nTo begin, I think Color
    is a very broad almost sweeping term meant to encompass many variables. It is
    substantiually vague & hard to understand precisely because it sweeps over so
    many aspects. It's not a useless term to people who spend lots of time with type
    but it does require experience to begin to be comprehensible. Notan is superficially
    much simpler but also more specific or precise & therefore maybe a bit more useful.
    It's just about the relationship of lights & darks. 'Relationship' is key to that
    phrase. \r\n\r\nIronically Notan is even useful for thinking about bright yellow
    text on bright blue or vice versa where as our Typographic term Color is not.
    That's because unlike 'Type-Color' which is rooted in specific type history, Notan
    is just about lightness & darkness which is an aspect of Color - in the common,
    or even scientific sense of the word. Notan is relationships in one Color Axis:
    Light Dark. Chroma, or Saturation or color intensity is another. And Hue is the
    last one - the color frequency eg red blue green etc. Ironically we can talk much
    more readily about the Notan of Bright blue text on Yellow because both colors
    have light & dark values along with their Chroma & Hue - so you can talk about
    the ways the relationship. In contrast, talking about the 'color' of colored text
    is messy for obvious terminological reasons ( which 'color' was that?) but also
    because of the relative imprecision of the term itself.\r\n\r\n<strong>Implied
    Scale</strong>\r\nColor & Notan also differ in that one implies something at the
    level of scale the other does not. Color is something you tend to be aware of
    or notice more broadly - like at the level of a paragraph. A single line of text
    cannot really be said to have color I think. Do you disagree? Maybe you can see
    it in a word. I am pretty sure I cannot. In contrast, Notan occurs at the glyph
    level, the inter-glyph level, the word level & all the way up & down the size
    scale. In type design practice I think we are most concerned with the glyph, interglyph,
    word & paragraph levels. Graphic designers & typographers are likelier to be concerned
    with Notan at the line, paragraph & layout levels. \r\n\r\n<strong>Descriptive
    of Magnatude ( or Not )</strong>\r\nType-Color also refers to a degree of darkness
    or lightness on the page. It is to some degree quantitative. In contrast, Notan
    also does not refer to the degree of grey. I think it would be a misuse for instance
    to say: 'that has dark Notan'. Notan is not descriptive of Magnatude but to something
    superficially simpler - the relationship of the whites & blacks. \r\n\r\n<strong>Descriptive
    of Quality or Superiority ( or Not )</strong>\r\nThe phrase 'good Color' is essential
    to any understanding of what is meant by 'Color'. It is not helpful to say 'Good
    Notan' because it implies that one relationship or arrangement is superior. Notan
    is not about that klind of judgement. Similarly you can't quite say 'good type'
    outside of a context : use, paper culture, audience etc. Notan refers to a way
    of looking - not a result or a judgement of that result.\r\n\r\n<strong>Sequence
    </strong>\r\nPhilisophically you might say that Notan is higher up ontologically
    - that it to say it comes first or put another way 'Color' results from Notanic
    interactions. Or if you prefer you could turn the order around could think of
    Color as being the observable phenomena and of Notan being a theoretical construct
    to explain an aspect of that phenomena. Either way they are not sequentially non-contemporary.
    \r\n\r\n<strong>Usefulness</strong>\r\nNotan is more useful if for no other reason
    than because Notan is less vague than can the term 'Color'. I also think that
    new insights and progress in the design of type can be leveraged from observing
    and thinking about Notanic relationships.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nNick: Thanks for posting
    your example and your desription of your thinking about the choices you were making.
    I wholheartedly agree that the 2nd one is a BIG improvment.\r\n\r\nPeter: I like
    your distinction between 'visual (optical-grammatical) integrity' and \u2018interplay\u2019.
    I think an awareness of Notan can be used to either one or both and that they
    are indeed quite different. I can of course not prove it but I am wondering if
    visual grammtical integrity & cue values in the bouma are enhanced by the successful
    notanic interplay between glyphs. Maybe not. Maybe interplay just gives the eye
    something more compelling & comfotable to spend time with. But my gut says - no.
    My guts says this interplay is where the big gains are to be had and it's where
    I think the best new faces get their power from.\r\n\r\nHrant & Chris: Let's make
    an effort to keep the signal to noise ratio reasonable! ;-)\r\n\r\nChris: It was
    fun trying to figure that one out. I am almost disappointed to have gotten it!\r\n\r\nHrant:
    I agree this isn't easy. But I think examples and discussion of what we are seeing
    in them especially as they relate to Notan is the best way of helping a deeper,
    more useful understanding of Notan as it applies to type to emerge. Because Notan
    is so precise and can be seen at so many scales levels and is so superficially
    simple it is also hard to get a brain around. It's almost like an object you need
    tweezers to pick up. I hope our examples can be those tweezers. Eventually I hope
    we can just say Notan. Saying Notanic relationships is a little like saying 'Safe
    Safety'. It's weird."
  created: '2006-11-10 02:12:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Chris, It looks like your beat me to posting so I am out of sequential order.
    I will have to your idea over. My gut says that this is a continuum on a different,
    maybe intersecting axis to Notan - however interesting - but maybe not. I'll think
    about it.
  created: '2006-11-10 02:18:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">A single line of text cannot really be said to have color I think. Do you
    disagree? Maybe you can see it in a word. I am pretty sure I cannot.\r\n\r\nYes,
    I can see even or uneven color in a word, I noted that the L in Caslon Double
    Pica gives the word 'Lady' relatively uneven color compared to the harmony of
    the L in the word 'Lads' in Caslon Great Primer below it. \r\n\r\nIf you read
    'Fonts and Logos'--which has a lot about evenness of color in logos--you will
    also be able to see color in a single word and will know what I am talking about.
    Evenness of color is one of the keys to readability, because you need a relatively
    uniform background matrix. If the background has uneven color, then it randomly
    adds information that interferes with the information you need to detect in the
    varying features of the letters--what Peter calls 'role architectural features
    and evoked forms' in the letters. \r\n\r\nTo me 'good notan' does have a meaning
    in a glyph, at least for text faces. To me it means what I think Chris meant when
    he talked about in 'locking' the black and white together, or what Cyrus Highsmith
    said about 'becoming part of the paper'. But it may well be a quality that requires
    the glyph to be in context of others in the face to really see it. Perhaps that
    is because the other letters create boundaries and so define the outside space.
    \r\n\r\nBecause evenness of color involves how the blacks of letters relate to
    other blacks in other letters, as well as the proportion of black to white, I
    think it is not a subset of 'notan'. \r\n\r\nFurthermore, I would say that evenness
    of color is more important in a text face. Lacking that, its usefulness is really
    compromised. Good notan adds a handsomeness of character which makes it a really
    good face. So you need both. \r\n\r\nSo I can see the conceptual framework I have
    been using here is different than yours--which is why I haven't understood you.
    I do think the terminology of color is rooted in type design realities, as is
    shown by its long use and the in depth illustration and demonstration of it by
    Doyald Young.\r\n\r\nBy the way, the way notan is used in Shirokuro is where whites
    become foreground, competing with and here cleverly complementing the blacks.
    This damages readability--though clearly that was not the goal in this display
    face. This would be very bad notan for a text face. \r\n"
  created: '2006-11-10 02:44:28'
- author:
    name: joachim
    picture: 110139
  body: "Thank you Eben, for inviting me to your thread.  Happy to find out that Typophile
    has a nice description of traditional Notan in its Wiki, but I think humans have
    come upon the concept outside of Asia too.  I guess I came to a similar approach
    from a different angle: As a teenager I was given Paul Klee's \"Pedagogic Sketchbook\",
    where, in chapters II.23 and .24, he explains \"non-symmetrical balance\" (and
    expands it interestingly in III.26 and IIII.40) \u2013 a concept which, to me,
    explains modernist composition quite nicely, and how effects of vivid tension
    can be achieved.\r\n\r\nA few words about Shirokuro \u2013 Akira Kobayashi just
    interiewed me for the Japanese magazine \"Design no Genba\" (I'll put the entire
    text on my website sometime soon) \u2013 \r\n\r\n\"During my studies at the Basel
    School of Design we spent much time thinking and working in figure-ground shapes
    and exercises, which I enjoyed a lot. In type design class we also often dealt
    more with white space than black form. When I began designing typefaces in 1993,
    I therefore also played with Romaji whose shapes were composed of white as well
    as black shapes, but did not get far since I found too many possibilities. Years
    later when I learned Kanji, I remembered again and thought, in most Kanji I might
    be able to separate the radical (hen) and the rest of the character in a positive-negative
    treatment? Here too there were too many variations at first, but in the Kana I
    soon found the best design rule: On the upper right often appeared ten-ten or
    maru, and these had to be positive shapes, so they could simply be added separately.
    Hence the negative part could only be located on the left or at the bottom. Thus,
    Kanji with a 'hen' went fairly quickly, but simpler glyphs were difficult \u2013
    i needed to 'break' them in a way. Back then I still did not understand much of
    good Kanji formgiving, and hid my ignorance behind a playfully-random papercut
    style. When my Japanese design was finished, I was able to create the Romaji with
    the same rules very easily \u2013 in only two evenings. Many designers hate rules
    \u2013 I in turn often search for them, as I like using them like toys.\"\r\n\r\nCorrect,
    Shirokuro is not easy to read, actually in more ways than mentioned.  Readers
    of Kanji actually appreciate uneven color in their text, because it assists in
    recognizing the characters also by their color, i.e. amount of strokes.  Especially
    the Japanese who mix them with Kana, can easily identify the lighter-looking inflections,
    particles etc. in Hiragana, or foreign words in Katakana.  And that is where Shirokuro
    totally \"fails\", because every character has almost equal amounts of black and
    white, which results in rather even color, and the simplicity or complexity of
    a character can only be perceived indirectly through the coarseness of its details.
    \ Still, they seem to like my idea a lot, since they told me they are trained
    to see Kanji only as collections of strokes, not as inside and outside shapes.
    \ Which is evident when you see how even the comparably few closed shapes are
    built from several strokes placed one by one, not as continuous ovals and connectors
    like western writing.\r\n\r\nAnd yes, Shirokuro's notan is on a glyph-by-glyph
    basis only.  So where is \"interlettral / panglyphal\" notan? In Blue Island?
    Or in Ed Interlock?  :-)"
  created: '2006-11-10 11:55:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Joachim, thanks for that full elaboration (good move, Eben). Some very interesting
    and good points there. I'd love to get into a discussion concerning certain points
    in the interview, but... see below. My own admiration for Shirokuro is based on
    its \"proving\" that letters are not necessarily black - that we can decipher
    them much, much more cleverly than the classical views would have us believe.
    The PoMo exercices from the 90s were just the tip of the iceberg!\r\n\r\n> In
    Blue Island? Or in Ed Interlock? :-)\r\n\r\nGood examples!\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nSpeaking
    of examples, I have a suggestion: we typically spend a lot of time opining and
    discussing, probably because we love doing that. But I think this love might be
    diverting us from a good opportunity: to simply observe, at least to start. As
    much as Eben's robust elaboration of notan as a term and William's presentation
    of his views make me want to type up a storm, I think this thread has great \"passive\"
    potential - White, or Yin potential shall we say!  :-)\r\n\r\nSo I suggest that
    we hold off on the ASCII and go heavy on\r\nthe imagery, for the time being. Just
    a suggestion of course.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-10 15:17:00'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Joachim: Thank you for telling us about your exprience & ideas. I know we
    all appreciate that very much! I hope you will stay involved in the thread and
    on typophile. I am sure we can benefit from your perspective. Cheers!\r\n\r\nRE:
    the Examples Chris posted & images generally: When I have been looking at Type
    examples I have been preparing them in photoshop cs which has several different
    rendering schemes. And then there are the differences widely observed in the rendering
    in various OS. No doubt all of these variables will alter the subtle relationship
    of the glyphs. Does anybody want to suggest a standard way of doing this so that
    are comparisons have a rendering model in common? Maybe this is fruitless...\r\n\r\nHrant
    & William: I agree with Hrant's point about sticking to observations. My ideas
    about Notan are highly provisional and it's time to rub them smooth by testing
    them on real type. That is indeed what this thread was for - creating an opportunity
    to share real observable examples for mutual benefit. \r\n\r\nThere are so many
    other interesting points left but that's all I can get to just now. And it's probably
    better to keep these posts shorter anyway.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-10 17:46:33'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Eben,\r\n\r\nThe screens we're looking at are so different from printed pages,
    we're already in a mire as far as interpreting what we see or rasterizing things
    consistently. My biggest issue is that the low resolutions seriously limit the
    size range we can evaluate. The additional variables of sharpness, contrast, reading
    environment, resolution settings, these things make it a very coarse and incomplete
    picture. \r\n\r\nI've been wishing someone would prepare some PDF samples with
    text fonts carefully set as consistently as possible: three realistic, common
    reading sizes, good measures, good leading, consistent x-height, built-in spacing
    and kerning, set ragged right, adequate white space, standard layouts. If this
    was done with a broad selection of faces, without a foundry or esthetic bias,
    it would be helpful for discussions like these, as well as to people needing more
    information for purchases or type selection. \r\n\r\nMaybe someone could devise
    a template in InDesign, and various designers (with various access to different
    fonts) could plug new faces into it (as long as they can adjust to match the standard
    x-heights). Each face could be a PDF, or collections of pages could be assembled
    by one person.... A Typophile PDF repository? "
  created: '2006-11-10 18:22:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/notanstate_3651.png]\r\nNeville Brody's
    typeface \"State\"."
  created: '2006-11-10 19:28:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Cool!
  created: '2006-11-10 19:39:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, I'd never seen that! Cool. How old is it?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-10 19:45:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's from Fuse 1, 1991.\r\nhttp://www.fontshop.com/products/fuse01.cfm"
  created: '2006-11-10 19:54:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben,\r\nThe sample type I posted was set in Adobe Illustrator and then \"Saved
    for Web\" using PNG24 as the selection.  Photoshop is locked into pixels and doesn't
    quite work for text.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-10 22:00:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Aline_3607.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nOne reason
    that I have no faith in any of the reading theories or research discussed on Typophile
    is that none of it explains how one can possibly read the above, let alone fluently.\r\nHow
    does the reader differentiate the letter from the join?\r\nAnd where is the contrast
    between positive letter-as-figure and negative background that is considered so
    fundamental to legibility?"
  created: '2006-11-11 02:13:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">how one can possibly read the above, let alone fluently\r\n\r\nI don't think
    the theories are that well developed. It doesn't mean they won't be in the future.
    \r\n\r\nOn your thought-provoking example:\r\n\r\n1. I do think it is much harder
    to read than it would be if it were solid--that is, it would slow down and fatigue
    a reader more. \r\n\r\n2. The letters do have a rhythm and regularity which tells
    us where to look for a letter. And of course we've learned to read script shapes--more
    slowly and laboriously than print. "
  created: '2006-11-11 22:01:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>it would slow down and fatigue a reader more.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, but it's
    a question of degree, not kind.\r\nThe underlying process is the same whether
    you're walking on a road or running across rocks.\r\nSo yes, one must walk before
    one can run, but don't slow me down 'cause you 'bot can't get its feet off the
    ground."
  created: '2006-11-12 01:56:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, what are the chances we can get you to adopt a broader\r\nNew Year's
    Resolution this time, plus stick with it longer?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-12 02:54:21'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Nick:\r\n\r\n\"reading\" isn't the same thing in your example as it is in
    book or onscreen text reading. Quite different actually. A clue here is how large
    the type is. Legibility isn't Readability. Hope that helps."
  created: '2006-11-12 06:05:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant, I have tried not to mention the \"r\" word (and I certainly haven't
    mentioned it in this thread). However, I didn't resolve to lose all interest in
    how we read.\r\n\r\nShirokoru, which reminded me of State, got me thinking about
    situations where we can read even though there is no dominant side in the positive/negative
    gestalt -- in other words, where the notan does not directly map the typographic
    form as a letter with an area, a simple figure/ground image -- and hence outline
    type sprung to mind.\r\n\r\nIt would be convenient to explain away how we manage
    to read an outline script by putting it in the \"deciphering\" and \"legibility\"
    category, rather than the \"immersive\" and \"readability\" one, but I'm afraid
    that although I admit these categories can be useful, I don't think they have
    much to do with the way we read.\r\n\r\nI believe that readerability is extremely
    flexible, and allows us to read different types in different ways. From our perceptual
    toolbox, we choose different tools to read a very tight Helvetica Thin setting
    than we would for a classic Bembo setting.\r\n\r\nAnd in reading text set in an
    outline script, as with all challenging settings, we probably rely more on guessing
    word shapes than the letter-first model proferred by Kevin. But that doesn't mean
    we're not engaged in immersive reading. Surely there are different depths of immersivity
    -- where do you draw the line: word, phrase, sentence, paragraph, page?\r\n\r\nActually
    Carl, I showed outline of a monoline script because thatt is most promising for
    an outline text setting, as there is less problem with the outline doubling up
    between letters. "
  created: '2006-11-12 07:50:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I have tried not to mention the \u201Cr\u201D word\r\n\r\nYes, but clearly
    that hasn't been a de facto solution on the ground (not that you honored your
    previous Resolution for nearly long enough) which is why I said we should try
    to broaden it next time.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-12 14:45:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "New year resolutions are more an expression of general intent than inviolable
    rules.\r\nMy intent was to think outside the Readabiity/Legibility box. It's not
    been easy, when that concept is so engrained and crops up so readily in discussions
    on the reading process. "
  created: '2006-11-12 17:35:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: " <cite>none of it explains how one can possibly read the above</cite>\r\n\r\nThinking
    about notan seems ideal for running scripts because the notan model isn't character
    or glyph centric. I don't think the mind is either which is part of why I like
    the bouma model so well. Also, according to Peter ( or so I imagine) the 'salient
    cues' for the letters are still there.\r\n\r\nAdmittedly outlines introduce an
    additional factor in desciferment of a word or phrase or bouma if you like. I
    am not sure how to explain how we deal with that & actually I think we don't deal
    with it all *that* well. Why? I definitely don't want to read too many words set
    in outline - even if it grabs my attention. \r\n\r\nI think you may have brought
    a particle physics problem to geometry class as it were. Still, it's a visual
    sample/example. So bravo. You are well ahead of the rest of us where that's concerned!
    \r\n\r\nCarl: VERY good idea. What kinds of Copyright issues are there? Without
    addressing issues of color on the page and for looking at how two or three glyphs
    relatemaybe we could say, render it at 96pt size or above or so x height equals
    1 inch or something - what do you think? What do you think of Chris' PNG model?
    It sounds good to me... Also some of the examples I will want to post later will
    probably come from scans made by other people or photos of carvings. So I know
    ahead of time that not all of my examples will be superb.\r\n\r\nI hope to follow
    Nick's fine example & post a new sample soon. But before I do: \r\n\r\nTo reiterate
    just a little the idea I have had for this thread (true or not) is that notan
    is not easy to 'see' or rather notice when it's working well. However if we look
    at classic examples of difficult character combinations and see them working or
    failing by various degrees the Notan will be easier to see and perhaps it's applicability
    to our work will be too. And maybe I can gain the viability of my pet 'contextual
    notan' idea too. That's why I posted the 'ra' & 'La' examples and asked William
    to help me with the samples I was missing. Let's look back at the samples of 'La'
    & comment on them. I don't want William's good will to be wasted! Does anybody
    have any further comments about 'ra' combinations?"
  created: '2006-11-13 20:42:10'
- author:
    name: joachim
    picture: 110139
  body: "> Shirokoru, which reminded me of State, got me thinking about situations
    where we can read even though there is no dominant side in the positive/negative
    gestalt  (Nick)\r\n\r\nI believe to remember that the Fuse series had loads of
    experimental fonts that challenged reading habits in one way or another or more...
    so I wonder whether other Fuse fonts might also hold interesting notanities in
    store?  Is there any place online where all fonts of the series can be seen?\r\n\r\nShirokuro
    and State seem cousins (about equal amounts of black and white), though State
    is intersecting (using vector compounds) and thus reminds me of Shatter (for which
    the Letraset folks reportedly sliced Helvetica up with X-actos) -- while Shiro
    is interlocking, kinda like those complicated hand greetings that some dudes practice
    \ :)\r\n...and that T of State is definitely \"not resolved\"  ;))"
  created: '2006-11-15 08:17:22'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://web.mac.com/gesamtkunstwerk/iWeb/The_Poetry_of_Sight/Dazzle%20Camouflage.html\r\n\r\nNotan
    used to obscure and confuse.\r\n\r\nTim\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mahomet-600_6473.jpg]"
  created: '2006-11-15 17:55:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Maybe that bis why NFL referees are so obscure and confused :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-15 18:09:29'
- author:
    name: joachim
    picture: 110139
  body: "Great patterns on those ships...... they must have been inspired by my 'Tiny
    Tim' font  :)))\r\n\r\nBrowsing further, the site talked about gestalt theory,
    and then mentions the font 'Gestalt':\r\nhttp://www.typography.com/catalog/gestalt/more.html\r\nwhich
    in turn reminded me of good old 'Stop':\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/stop/familytree.html"
  created: '2006-11-16 08:58:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Shades of Mecanorma :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-16 14:10:08'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "The HFJ link didn't work for me. But googling it took me here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typography.com/catalog/gestalt/index.html\r\n\r\nIt
    looks like I had better comment on 'La' first if I have any hope of getting your
    comments on the subject! Okay, so when I look at the samples we have here imprefect
    as they undoubtedly are I see that the 'problem' and some of the 'solutions' are
    maybe not so well represented. The examples I had for LA were just a little too
    middling. So here are some examples that I think suggest something interesting
    about 'hole' problem in the combination 'La'.\r\n\r\nLet's look at what I think
    of as an examples of 'problem' relationship. Here is Geneva. And Mrs Eaves. In
    both cases the gap just seems too big to me. It's too much of a 'hole'.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/geneva_4905..jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mrseaves_3966.GIF]\r\n\r\nHere
    you see the 'hole' made by the shape of the L. It looks a bit too irregular.I
    see many many ways of compensating or ovoiding what looks imballanced to me. In
    fonts based on handwritting I see that the L is bent over filling that gap partially.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cezane_6702..jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zaphino_3690.GIF]\r\n\r\nBlackletter
    partially fills the gaps too. Petras Script is not blackletter of course but it
    seems to use the same strategy as to Fette Fraktur to deal with the 'hole'. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/petrasscript_4453.GIF]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fettefraktur_3622.GIF]\r\n\r\nAlso,
    a serif can help fill that space - in many styles. Courier, and Rockwell and Cooper
    Black.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/courier_4474..jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rockwell_3609.GIF]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cooper_4226..jpg]\r\n\r\nCooper
    Black is a little bit of a hybrid. It uses the bent serif as well like these fonts
    do: Hoefler Text and Goudy Oldstyle\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hoeflertext_5683.GIF]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/goudyoldstyle_4327.GIF]\r\n\r\nOr
    perhaps the most obvious choice in a Sans - the leg of the L can be shortened.
    Here we have Futura Medium, Humana Sans, and Meta Book Pro and Octone.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/futuramedium_4459.GIF]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/humanasans_4488.GIF]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/metabookpro_4239.GIF]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/octone_4007.GIF]\r\n\r\nIn
    Graffiti There is another solution - raising the leg. Sort of appropriate for
    making a liquid mark.... Here is: Owned, Streetcred and Fanboyhardcore\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Owned_5818.GIF]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Streetcred_6461.GIF]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FanboyHardcore_5875.GIF]\r\n\r\nAnd
    you can have a mix of lifted leg and serif a la Rockwell: Kickshaw\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kickshaw_3478.GIF]\r\n\r\nAnd
    then there is stuff that looks like a contextual altrenate: Shake Your Head\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Shakeyourhead_4832.GIF]\r\n\r\nSo,
    What do you think?"
  created: '2006-11-16 17:43:44'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/e5635e3fad5a57b7b393e7897948b890_5238.png]\r\n\r\nAlbertus
    uses a deep cut on the L, a similar solution to the lifted leg.\r\nI think that
    there is a limit to the amount you'd want to reduce the hole as that is what makes
    an L an L and scale comes into play, a 48pt L would, in an ideal world, be narrower
    than a 6pt L (if not a display cut), so I think you'd have to separate text from
    display in your analysis. I find your script (including the blackletter) samples
    are moving towards a confusion with an uppercase C.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-11-17 14:50:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The hole created by the L is a problem of uneven color--because of no black
    in the northeast quadrant. With the r you have the same problem in the southeast
    quadrant, but it is less as the r arm can be short, and you can extend the serif
    to the right under the arm. Also we read more clues at the x-height, so the baseline
    gap is somewhat less obtrusive. \r\n\r\nThe L problem is partly solved by the
    serif on the leg, which is often one of the biggest in a font, as in your Hoefler
    text. David Kindersley argued that the serif on the leg shifts the L's 'optical
    center' (the point ideally equidistant between sidebearings) to the right. And
    this allows more space to the right of the leg, and less to the left. This help
    to avoid the problem of the leg being too close to the next letter, creating a
    'crash' or clotted spot. Too close seems to be a problem in the Albertus example
    given by Tim. \r\n\r\nThere is an inevitable tension among three factors in glyph
    design: diversity of form, even color, and avoiding too close proximity of blacks.
    \r\n\r\nThe L and sometimes the R are the biggest problems, and with the L particularly
    you can't really design it away. \r\n\r\nGlyph designs are always a compromise
    between the different factors, and trying to be too perfect on one is going to
    mess up the others. \r\n\r\nThis is particularly true on the caps-to-lowercase
    combination. One of the things I have learned from working on Caslon is to keep
    in mind that the caps are really a different script that has been slapped together
    with the lower case. Trying too hard to harmonize them, which is the modern tendency,
    may backfire. They are, after all used as markers of sentence beginnings, titles,
    etc. Making them too harmonious with the lower case defeats this purpose. \r\n\r\nCaslon
    could on occassion make his caps way over weighted, as in the Double Pica L above.
    And sometimes they stand off too far from the lower case--the italic caps can
    be in the next county. Still, I think he understood that you can use the different
    structure of the caps to give strength and emphasis to a font, and that is a quality
    that can be lost in the quest for even color.  \r\n\r\nFinally, loose enough spacing,
    as in Caslon, helps make compromises work, and the mania for tight letter spacing
    can impose bad choices on you. "
  created: '2006-11-17 15:26:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "HFJ's Gestalt is not significant here.\r\nBut the Hoefler Text \"La\" has
    good notan, like Caslon's.\r\n\r\n> the r arm can be short\r\n\r\n1) But at the
    expense of its distinctiveness = legibility/readability.\r\n2) So can the bar
    of the \"L\" (and with the same negative).\r\n\r\n> we read more clues at the
    x-height\r\n\r\nI actually don't think this is true per se, especially not during
    immersive reading. On the other hand, there are indeed more clues there (and maybe
    that's what you really meant).\r\n\r\n> There is an inevitable tension among three
    factors in glyph design:\r\n> diversity of form, even color, and avoiding too
    close proximity of blacks.\r\n\r\nI think this is about half right.\r\n\r\n> it
    is important to keep in mind that the caps are really a different script\r\n\r\nVery
    good point. There is a pretty strict limit to how much you can make the two cases
    harmonize. The good news is that there's a lot more to type design than formal
    harmony.\r\n\r\nBTW, making caps too dark compared to the lc actually had a practical
    application: setting more attention-grabbing all-caps, out of the box.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-17 15:50:19'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">Hoefler Text \u201CLa\u201D has good notan\r\n\r\nIs this because the 'vertical'
    serif creates a well for the white in the L or because the serif frames the white
    of the open counter of the a, or both?\r\n\r\n> the r arm can be short\r\n\r\nOr
    curved back to the vertical like <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/search?search%5Btext%5D=esta\">Esta</a>.\r\n\r\nTim\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-17 16:15:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">>Hoefler Text \u201CLa\u201D has good notan\r\n\r\n>Is this because the
    \u2018vertical\u2019 serif creates a well for the white in the L or because the
    serif frames the white of the open counter of the a, or both?\r\n\r\nI don't think
    it is the relationship to the 'a', which is not that great anyway. \r\n\r\nYou
    can look on the vertical serif as adding weight to the lower right quadrant, reducing
    the unevenness of color. Or you can think in terms of notan, and see the serif
    as counterbalancing the white expanse above it. Either way you slice it, it means
    the L leg can be a little longer and still look ok. With a sans, you are really
    forced to make the leg shorter, I think, as in Eben's examples above. "
  created: '2006-11-17 16:42:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Is this because ...\r\n\r\nI think in Hoefler Text (like Patria, and unlike
    Albertus for example) it's because the white -like the black- is well-proportioned,
    <cite>designed</cite> if you will (although -unlike the black- it's \"design\"
    in a necessarily non-deterministic way) and \"happy\" alongside the black.\r\n\r\n>
    I don\u2019t think it is the relationship to the \u2018a\u2019\r\n\r\n?\r\nNotan
    is all about relationships, so by \"the 'La' has good notan\" of course I was
    talking about the balance of black and white between the two glyphs.\r\n\r\n>
    You can look on the vertical serif as adding weight to the lower\r\n> right quadrant,
    reducing the unevenness of color. Or you can think\r\n> in terms of notan, and
    see the serif as counterbalancing the white\r\n> expanse above it.\r\n\r\nI guess
    Eben's long and studious elaboration on the difference between color and notan
    (and the importance and primacy of the latter) didn't do much...\r\n\r\nThe relevance
    of notan (here, and in general) is about\r\nrelationships, not compartments. East
    versus West.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-17 17:09:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The reason I think it is useful to think in terms of 'color' here is that
    the L is so open that there is little 'activation of the white' that people usually
    think of in discussing notan. Assymetric balance of blacks within the bounds of
    the sidebearings and the body height is also very important. When it is done well,
    then you have a much better shot at fitting with other letters, including the
    a.  \r\n\r\nThe handling of the L in Hoefler text is very traditional, and works.
    Albertus, a variation on the traditional approach, and works, but for some reason
    is badly spaced here. Patria and Mrs Eaves (above) have too small a serif in relation
    to the weight of the stem in IMHO, and color worse for that reason.  "
  created: '2006-11-17 18:36:22'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Albertus is badly spaced because I took it from the myfonts site preview
    rather than set it properly, my feeling is that the La works as a combination,
    but I really posted it as a follow-up to Eben's posts as another example of how
    it could be treated.\r\nMrs Eaves is also suffering from small x-height.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-11-17 18:56:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm not sure what \"activation of the white\" means. Sounds like something
    Peter would say, but it seems to assume some sort of threshold, which I can't
    see existing.\r\n\r\nThe \"L\" is indeed very open colorwise but -as Caslon and
    Hoefler Text show- that doesn't necessarily prevent good notan (although you really
    need a hefty serif there*). This is in fact a good example of the difference between
    color and notan.\r\n\r\n* You're right about Patria btw, and the same thing applies
    elsewhere, like the \"E\" and even the lc \"z\". That's probably the single biggest
    thing on my to-fix list.\r\n\r\n> When it is done well, then you have a much better\r\n>
    shot at fitting with other letters, including the a.\r\n\r\nGood point, although
    here again there's the danger of missing the \"special\" thing about notan, that
    it's about relationships, not just discrete things abutting.\r\n\r\n> Mrs Eaves
    is also suffering from small x-height.\r\n\r\nDo you mean in relation to the participation
    of the \"L\" in notan? Because a small x-height can be a very positive thing in
    terms of readability (assuming it harmonizes with other the elements, such as
    spacing and color, which it doesn't in Mrs Eaves).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-17 20:28:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I\u2019m not sure what \u201Cactivation of the white\u201D means.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure either, but it's the phrase that Frutiger uses for what his goal is in
    \"designing the white\" as he puts it. I am assuming it goes some direction toward
    having the white push into foreground. And to go all the way on that is not a
    good thing in text faces. (the earlier example you pointed out is a display face.)\r\n\r\nThere
    is some 'thing' that happens with the whites in the counters when you get everything
    right, and I suppose that's what he's talking about. I mentioned earlier Cyrus
    Highsmith saying that the glyph 'becomes part of the paper instead of sitting
    on top of it'. And Chris Lozos wrote about the white and black 'locking' together.
    There's just a bunch of metaphors. "
  created: '2006-11-17 20:52:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it\u2019s the phrase that Frutiger uses\r\n\r\nAh, the scissors guy.\r\n\r\nMetaphors
    are usually fun and sometimes useful, as long as they don't make\r\nthings worse,
    and thinking in term like \"get everything right\" is... inhuman.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-17 20:59:01'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Since \"the caps are really a different script that has been slapped together
    with the lower case\" [Bill], is it possible that the black and white of it (notan)
    can never be as effectively leveraged in mixed settings as they can in purely
    lowercase settings? Is it possible that the basis for such leveraging is just
    not <em>as</em> there. See Noordzij's discussion just below.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/stroke_44_5035.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/stroke_45_3848.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[On
    the matter of metaphors]: To me the metaphors--if metaphors is what they are--are
    metaphors of proper salience, and reference important craft-attunements. Within
    the bounded map of the word-(or sub-word)-object <em>both</em> the black and white
    are information that go toward visual wordform resolution (a perceptual processing
    routine). That, I believe, is the import of Cyrus Highsmith's comment."
  created: '2006-11-17 21:56:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">thinking in term like \u201Cget everything right\u201D is\u2026 inhuman.\r\n\r\nI
    said right, not perfect. There are many, many things to get right and working
    together for a text font to be able to compete with the excellent ones out there.
    And when I can get a bunch of letters together that seem like are all working
    as they should, it seems to me somehow that both the whites and blacks glowing.
    That's what I'm talking about. \r\n\r\nAnother sense of rightness is, interestingly,
    that I lose the location of the letter I'm working on in a display string. When
    a glyph disappears, that's a good sign. "
  created: '2006-11-17 22:14:58'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Tim, Nice point about curving the LC r back. And the Albertus. It's all well
    & good to talk about notan but there are also semi-isolatable techniques people
    have used to cope with what are in my mind Notanic issues, problems. Thanks for
    grasping my idea!\r\n\r\n<cite> I guess Eben\u2019s long and studious elaboration
    on the difference between color and notan (and the importance and primacy of the
    latter) didn\u2019t do much\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is not a suprise is it? Habits
    are hard to break. Also Notan is hard to wrap your head around. But worth it.
    Speasking about color brings up terms like 'even' which are misleading on their
    surface despite what experts might say. I think more descriptive and probably
    more accurate are 'notan', 'tension' & 'relationship'. \r\n\r\n<cite>Mrs Eaves
    is also suffering from small x-height</cite> Probably. But a shorter leg and or
    a larger serif on the leg would have promoted a nicer notanic balance.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    \ \u2018activation of the white\u2019 </cite>\r\n\r\nI think that these words
    refer to activationg the white mentally while designing not some kind of wacky
    figure ground effect or any other of a number of distractions. Notan isn't white
    centric. "
  created: '2006-11-18 00:34:30'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Another sense of rightness is, interestingly, that I lose the location
    of the letter I\u2019m working on in a display string. When a glyph disappears,
    that\u2019s a good sign. </cite>\r\n\r\nAnother case of non-litteral description!
    :-0 \r\n\r\nBut I think I get what your talking about. Of course you could get
    that effect with a constructed/geometric face quite easily. And that's why they
    don't work for text. Too much regularity. The seeemingly wild aspects and excentric
    matches found in  text faces ( I will never forget the day I actually looked at
    a double storey g carefully) require extra consideration - and that's where taking
    a notanic position can help. Relationships need not be even, the need to be balanced.
    \r\n\r\nThinking about your description I started to worder how that sense of
    balance might shift around as you work on text for smaller sizes. When I look
    at something like Beorcana the combinations look funky when seen at large sizes.
    The way you balance your notan probably shifts too. Carl, would you comment on
    this? \r\n\r\nAnybody got a new combination problem they want to examine? \r\n\r\nDoes
    anybody think my 1st two examples were 'just fine'? Or that my analysis about
    the problems and solutions was off? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-18 00:57:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>...the basis for such leveraging is just not as there. </cite> \r\n\r\nI
    think it's more difficult to solve for Notan with many upper case letters. I will
    even admit  that the problems to be solved might be presented for the sake of
    teaching as being in a different class, kind, or category in general; but the
    ground in which the problem is solved (or not) is still Notan. And there are exceptions.
    The D is a great example to contast with the upper case I. The I is fairly simple
    to solve for upper case or lower. It's an exeption. But not an exception for Notan.
    I think that while the problems vary alot between glyph combos, uppercase & lower
    & even kinds of scripts - the same issue: Notan; applies across all forms - even
    Thai & Hebrew & Cyrilic & Chinese etc. "
  created: '2006-11-18 01:07:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">> I guess Eben\u2019s long and studious elaboration on the difference between
    color and notan (and the importance and primacy of the latter) didn\u2019t do
    much\u2026\r\n\r\n>This is not a suprise is it? Habits are hard to break.\r\n\r\nEben,
    I really hope you are not taking up Hrant's deplorable habit of ascribing any
    disagreement on an issue to personal failings in the other person. \r\n\r\nI don't
    think I am stuck in silly type habits. I don't have a lot of type habits to break,
    as I have only been drawing type for a bit over two years. \r\n\r\nI think we
    just disagree about understanding phenomena that in reality nobody understands
    all that well. I did explain in detail why I think the concept of 'color' is critically
    important in type, specifically the importance of balance of blacks, and Doyald
    Young's demonstration of this in logos. Do you have Doyald Young's book? Have
    you read his case study of his 'Prudential' logo?\r\n\r\n>Of course you could
    get that effect with a constructed/geometric face quite easily.\r\n\r\nI haven't
    drawn a geometric face, but I think it would be quite a big challenge with a geometrical
    face. The 'disappearing' comes from achieving even color and extensive visual
    consistency from character to character. Simple geometrical shapes go directly
    against even color in character after character, and they have to be masterfully
    modified--as Futura is--to achieve the harmony that makes type 'disappear'.   "
  created: '2006-11-18 01:39:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> personal failings</cite>\r\n\r\nIf I meant that I would have written
    *bad* habits. No, I had no jibe in mind. I just meant 'habits of mind'. I don't
    mean ( or think) 'silly' either. It's true we don't agree on all of this but -
    so what? Where's the fun in that?\r\n\r\n<cite> \u2018Prudential\u2019 logo </cite>\r\nThe
    only think I recall re- that logo was the way they went progressively towards
    an abstract state until it became too much & then they toned down the abstraction.
    I don't think that's the story you mean. What's the gist of this Doyald Young
    book?\r\n\r\nWithout being 'good' a geometric face can easily have the uniformity
    that allows characters to disappear. Futura is only semi-geometriuc compated to
    the faces I was referring to. I mean those techno faces... should I post an example?
    Anyway, my point is that no matter if it's extremely easy to achieve or very tough
    because of the complexities involved in a good text face - the dissapearing glyph
    is telling you something. I think it's tellling you that some kind of relative
    Notanic balance has been acheived. But I was also trying to draw a distiction.
    Just because a glyph now 'fits' in a face doesn't mean that the Notan of the face
    is rich. Just that it's balanced."
  created: '2006-11-18 02:45:29'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Eben, did you see the connection between my point about the  basis for leveraging
    the <em>light / dark (notan) of it</em> being not <em>as</em> there, and Noordzij's
    comment about  the basis for a rhythmic bond not being present in the capitals?\r\n\r\nAlso,
    I deliberately said the basis for the leveraging was \"just not <em><strong>as</strong></em>
    there.\"\r\n\r\nI think the point is effectively demonstrated in pretty well every
    \"Largo\" you showed. In each case the 'argo' makes a notanically integral bouma-object,
    with the \"L'\" consistently breaking away. We are so used to seeing this, we
    don't realize how badly.\r\n\r\nIsn't it the case that the most we can hope for
    in the \"La\" combos is a harmonious integration of the blacks between the right
    end of the leg of the \"L\" and the bowl of the \"a\", and a smooth flow of the
    white, from the white between the arm and bowl of the \"a\" into the white just
    above the leg and to the right of the stem of the \"L\"?\r\n\r\nThe notan won't
    be 'ideal' or 'solved' in formal-functional terms across the word-object--and,
    as someone already suggested, perhaps it shouldn't be in proper names and at the
    beginings of new sentences--but we will have leveraged the black and white of
    it intelligently.\r\n\r\n(Hrant, I'm picking up on your excellant comment elsewhere
    that the important thing is the <em>leveraging</em> of notan.)"
  created: '2006-11-18 03:06:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">What\u2019s the gist of this Doyald Young book?\r\n\r\n'Fonts and Logos'
    is a 385 page large-format book studying fonts and logos. It  is one of the best
    books on drawing letters, I think, and just has a wealth of information. It's
    value is not in any 'gist' but in the wealth of detailed comments on letters and
    illustrations of trial and error in drawing logos by a master of drawing letters.
    His goal is logos, not typefaces, but many of the same principles apply. The trial
    and error examples bring you into the mind of a master draftsman of logos, and
    that is its great merit. The Prudential example is the most extensive documentation
    of the process of developing the wordmark for 'Prudential', as well as a related
    font. \r\n\r\nI can't do better by way of summary than Hermann Zapf in the Introduction
    \"This is logo design at is best by a designer with an outstanding international
    reputation of many years. Study the examples to open the door into this imaginative
    and inspiring world of logo design.\" \r\n\r\nOh and Hrant often has recommended
    it along with the 'triumvirate' as one of the handful of best books on letters,
    and I agree. \r\n\r\nPersonally, what I learned most from it was the importance
    of even color, and what it means in practice to achieve it. With all due respect,
    Eben, from your comments (can't see even color in a word; easy to achieve with
    geometric face) I conclude that you really don't understand the concept of even
    color as the term is used by Young. \r\n\r\nIn so far as 'notan' is a different
    concept in type from 'color', it does have to do with the whites having a special
    kind of presence. \r\nHere is Frutiger, who I believe is the most prominent type
    designer to advocate 'designing the whites'. This is from the Wikipedia article:\r\n***\r\n\u201CThe
    white surface of the paper is taken to be \u2018empty\u2019, an inactive surface,
    despite the visible structures that are present. With the first appearance of
    a dot, a line, the empty surface is activated. A part, if only a small part, of
    the surface is thereby covered. With this procedure, the emptiness becomes white,
    or light, providing a contrast to the appearance of black. Light is recognizable
    only in comparison with shadow. The actual procedure in drawing or writing is
    basically not the addition of black but the removal of light. The sculptor's work
    also consists essentially of taking something away from the block of stone and
    in this manner forming it: the final sculpture is what remains of the material\u201D
    (Rauri, ?) A professor of Frutiger's, Alfred Williman said: \u201CDo not apply
    black but cover up white, so as to make the light of the white sheet active.\u201D
    (Traces) Frutiger took this as his mantra.\r\n***\r\n\r\nSo this, as in art exercises
    on 'notan' is more than balance; it is imparting a certain quality to the whites.
    \r\n\r\nFinally, in type design the relationship of the weights of the horizontals
    and vertical and diagonals I don't think can be determined only by looking at
    the whites. You also have to look at how the blacks relate to each other. For
    example, can you tell what the weight of the cross bars on the f and t should
    be only by looking at the balance of white and black? I think you also have to
    consider how it relates to the weight of the stem, of the serifs, the horizontal
    part of the arches, etc.  \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-18 03:41:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I really hope you are not taking up Hrant\u2019s deplorable habit of ...\r\n\r\nYes
    Eben, it's much better if you pick up one of William's wonderful habits, like
    getting somebody to spill their guts out in elaboration, disagree fundamentally
    but not bother to say anything, so that you can just keep droning on about your
    hyper-conservative, more-static-than-Pluto's-moon pet beliefs and quoting and
    re-quoting \"Standard\" texts which of course everybody has to memorize in order
    to understand anything, without fear of actually having to counter-elaborate in
    any meaningful way. Shame on you for trying to get people to understand and use
    a word that their pappy never told them about. How can they need a new idea, a
    new word, when they have already Arrived? And Eben, make sure not to take into
    account that you're having real disagreements with actual people - otherwise we
    might run the risk of actually understanding things and getting somewhere new.\r\n\r\n>
    I don\u2019t think I am stuck in silly type habits.\r\n\r\nWho said anything about
    type?\r\n\r\n> The \u2018disappearing\u2019 comes from achieving even color\r\n\r\nIndeed,
    information disappears, poof!\r\n\r\n> The notan won\u2019t be \u2018ideal\u2019
    or \u2018solved\u2019 in\r\n> formal-functional terms across the word-object\r\n\r\nIndeed.
    The most we can do is target an ideal, knowing full well that we can never get
    there, not least because it's a construct, not anything real. This is the difference
    BTW between ideal and perfect: the latter make you think it's something real you
    can get to. What it is is a disease.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-18 03:44:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ">> \"This is logo design at is best\r\n\r\nLOGO being the operative word!\r\n\r\n>
    you really don\u2019t understand the concept of\r\n> even color as the term is
    used by Young.\r\n\r\nEben would have to be a retard not to understand such a
    simple thing.\r\nEben is not a retard.\r\n\r\n> In so far as \u2018notan\u2019
    is a different concept in type from \u2018color\u2019,\r\n> it does have to do
    with the whites having a special kind of presence.\r\n\r\nNo, no, no, no, no!\r\nYou're
    completely not listening at all.\r\n\r\nFrutiger is good at a lot of things. Understanding
    good notan -different than having good instincts about it and/or actually making
    it- is not one of them. He, like so many others, here and elsewhere, is stuck
    in the western  mindframe of figure/ground, of primacy and subservience.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-18 03:52:28'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"it\u2019s a construct\" [Hrant]\r\n\r\n...and a heuristic one at that...\r\n\r\nI
    don't know what 'an ideal' might be other than that we should target a notan that
    is adverse to componential abstraction, response bias collapse or letter-by-letter
    slot-processing. We can get there!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-18 04:00:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">not bother to say anything\r\n\r\nHrant, not only are you gratuitiously
    rude but you are talking nonsense. I have responded to Eben in detail and in fact
    at excessive length.\r\n\r\n>Indeed, information disappears, poof!\r\n\r\nI have
    explained that even color has to be balanced with variety in letter form and other
    factors. But obviously you prefer to rant and rage rather than discuss the topic,
    so I won't respond further. "
  created: '2006-11-18 04:38:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm not ranting and raging, I'm playing!\r\n\r\nEven color per se is anti-reading.
    What you want is a lack (actually a minimizing) of errant-fixation-causing distractions
    in color (and pattern). Not the same thing at all. Even color is yet another Modernist,
    western illusion.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-18 04:48:33'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Long post again. Surprise, surprise, - right? \r\n\r\nStrangely all these
    statements tie together fvor me and remind me of idea I have been chewing on about
    Notan for a while:\r\n\r\n- <cite> 'Even color per se is anti-reading' </cite>
    ( Hrant )\r\n\r\n- <cite> '...even color has to be balanced with variety in letter
    form' </cite>( William )\r\n\r\n- <cite> '...we should target a notan that is
    adverse to componential abstraction, response bias collapse or letter-by-letter
    slot-processing' </cite>( Peter ) \r\n\r\n- <cite> '...but we will have leveraged
    the black and white of it intelligently' </cite> ( Peter )\r\n\r\n- <cite> 'I
    think the point is effectively demonstrated in pretty well every \u201CLargo\u201D
    you showed. In each case the \u2018argo\u2019 makes a notanically integral bouma-object,
    with the \u201CL\u2019\u201D consistently breaking away'</cite> (Peter)\r\n\r\nPeter,
    thanks for answering my question! I think I can answer yours primarily & the other
    more obliquely by saying that I think it's the Notanic strain that is perhaps
    one of the salient cues for the letter L. So I am argueing that a relative amount
    of 'breaking away' is maybe a signature of the letter. Unless it's blackletter
    maybe! But that breaking away like any characteristic can cut into bouma or become
    part of the richness of it. And so I suppose I also agree with your point about
    needing to leverage the variation & cues - either by playinmg them up or toning
    them down to create a collection that works together. Which brings me to Williams
    quote : typographic 'Even color' properly understood ( as far as I can see) is
    a collection of variety that works. That variety might be pretty wild. Nick Fontesque
    comes to mind. Who would have thought it would hold together but it does! Even
    color achieved by too much reduction in this variety is, I think anti-reading.
    The modern faces that comparmentelize gylphs too much are guilty of this I think.
    Frutiger was brillaint at compensating for this modernist comparmentalization.
    In contrast, when I look at Calson or Bembo I can't help being amazed at their
    balance of Bizzare shapes. William, I think you said something similar at Typecon
    actually! They also offer greater interaction which works for not against the
    faces. \r\n\r\nAnyway I don't want to lionize Bembo. I want to suggest that there
    are lots of places to look for Notan at work and that we should keep looking for
    it and talking about it.\r\n\r\n<cite>Frutiger/Notan</cite>\r\nWilliam I agree
    you & Hrant and many others I suspect that Frutiger's use of what I will call
    Notan was superb. I suspect you might be willing to say so too. Maybe not using
    the word Notan. Would you? Suffice it to say - he's amazing! I would love to talk
    to him about it if that were possible. Anybody got an 'in' for me?\r\n\r\nBut,
    William I have to agree with Hrant that using his words to *define* Notan is a
    mistake. Unambiguosly. Especially if you are interested in debunking it. I don't
    begrudge you BTW if that if that's what you have in mind. It's your perogative!
    But either way your better off reading Japanese or Chinese folks in translation
    - it's their idea to begin with. \r\n\r\nIt's also true that I have repeatedly
    said ( & will say again it seems ) that White CANNOT be 'primary' from a Notanic
    point of view as you suggest here: <cite> I don\u2019t think can be determined
    only by looking at the whites.</cite> Who knows - maybe white *is* primary. I
    have no evidence for that. So until I do - we agree. \r\n\r\nWhat I think is probably
    going on in that quote is a kind of rhetorical flourish or deliberate hyperbole.
    Why? Because an instructor who is on his game knows that in practice it will be
    hard for the student to stop being black-centric. So as a teacher they can be
    free to overemphasize the white to give the kids a chance to get some of that
    balance happening.\r\n\r\n<cite> I conclude that you really don\u2019t understand
    the concept of even color as the term is used by Young.</cite> \r\nHaving not
    read the book I know that I can't have any idea. Perhaps I'll get a chance to
    read it & get back to you. I have a feeling that you were still feeling insulted
    and this phrase was an expression of that. I want to reiterate that while I don't
    seem to agree with your about Color or Notan I don't see it as a bad habit on
    your part. Also, there certainly there are far more folks running around saying
    Color than Notan. It's an intrenched term of art as it were. \r\n\r\nBut there
    are lots of things in type that wear out their usefulness & we move on. Like consistant
    widths in a Linotype machine for Romans & italics. You can compensate - sure.
    But who would want to if they could avoid it? I feel that way about the term Color.
    I think it obscures as much as it reveals. If it was the best we had I'd be happy
    to go ahead & make the best of it. But I think Notan is a more useful, accurate
    & descriptive term. It's a term that's going to take some getting used to but
    I think it will be worth it."
  created: '2006-11-18 07:34:20'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">Do you mean in relation to the participation of the \u201CL\u201D in notan?\r\n\r\nYes,
    I think that Peter's comment about the argo being an object separated from the
    L is well illustrated by Mrs Eaves, my comment was a reaction to the setting that
    Eben posted. Again on the La combination (apart from the length of the leg) there
    is something about that vertical serif that needs amending, either bigger (wider
    or taller) or shaped*. Of course this is treating it as a logo rather than as
    a character that is going to have to interact with other characters and that is
    going to have to retain the characteristics of an L within a range of sizes (although
    one can't control any subsequent use, I think the character should still be designed
    with some thought to an optimum use). Looking at Geneva in the same way it would
    be optimally intended for smaller scale and I think that for small sizes it is
    preferable to have a hole that is so obvious (the relatively tall x-height helps
    exaggerate it) to increase the qualities that make an L an L.\r\nTim\r\n* or possibly
    it is just too similar to the other serifs to perform its purpose."
  created: '2006-11-18 10:24:44'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"But who would want to if they could avoid it? I feel that way about the
    term Color. I think it obscures as much as it reveals. If it was the best we had
    I\u2019d be happy to go ahead & make the best of it. But I think Notan is a more
    useful, accurate & descriptive term.\" [Eben]\r\n\r\nWhy force a choice? Both
    notan and colour are relevant reference axes vis \xE0 vis type. And their ranges
    of convenience are partly overlapping, creating, with many other relevant reference
    axes, a field of multiple countervailing but co-relevant, partially non-overlapping
    and mutually non-exclusive normative functional pressures. Typographical practice
    happens at the intersection. The different modernisms might navigate the pressures
    differntly, but it's my impression that Frutiger, for instance keeps them well
    in balance. Some modernisms might navigate the pressures poorly. Modernisim isn't
    a mono-dimensional entity or direction.\r\n\r\nNowadays when I think of colour
    I think of the dark / light (notanic) 'register' the glyph set exists in. And
    relative to this, the criterion of colour evokes a concern for consistency across
    the glyph set of where the members of the set are on the dark / light distribution
    spectrum. While notan evokes over and above this a concern for the 'valence ratio'
    if you will, of the white vis \xE0 vis the black. A notanic emphasis comports
    well with the notion that both the black and the white in word-object bounded
    maps are perceptual decisionally 'psycho-active.'\r\n\r\n[relative to 'valence
    ratio']: It could well be that there is an assymetry in vision whereby the coarser,
    magnocellularly-based, fast, ensemble statistics collecting, parafoveal pre-processing
    of the word object relies more on the distribution of whites inside the bounded
    map than the finer, parvocellullarly-based, slower, foveal, visual wordform decisional
    processing, which might rely on finer features supplied by the black, like lack
    of closure here, sidednes of a stem there, disturbance of expressedness elsewhere.\r\n\r\nHow
    do we adjust for this?"
  created: '2006-11-18 13:52:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> a relative amount of \u2018breaking away\u2019 is maybe a signature of
    the letter.\r\n\r\nYes!\r\n(With Tim saying the same thing too.)\r\n\r\n> overemphasize
    the white to give the kids a chance\r\n\r\nAnd this is actually why I seem to
    extreme myself sometimes (although\r\nsubbing people for kids). It's sort of a
    well-meaning slap in the face.\r\n\r\n> Why force a choice?\r\n\r\nNot a choice,
    an awareness, of differences and relative merits.\r\nBecause people (adults) don't
    change unless they're pressured.\r\n\r\n> It could well be that there is an assymetry
    in vision ...\r\n\r\nThis multi-frequency aspect of perception/cognition is something
    that's actually already somewhat accepted I thought. And yes, it does play into
    the fovea/parafovea duality, with the former being* higher-frequency and able
    to see -fewer- letters** with near-total assurance, and the latter being lower-frequency
    and able to see -more- letters (via multi-letter boumas) with more guesswork.
    BTW, when you take into account that English for example has a redundancy of over
    50% (and apparently almost 70% according to one researcher) you start realizing
    that the parafovea playing over 60% of the role in reading (in optimal situations)
    is entirely plausible.\r\n\r\n* Or actually, choosing to be, since it has lower
    frequencies as well.\r\n\r\n** Special-case boumas.\r\n\r\nBut I don't think parafoveal
    perception can work with the inside whites very much. Also, I wouldn't ignore
    the potential significance of cues in the parafovea.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-18 15:16:30'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[again, relaive to 'valence' ratio]: I raise the asymmetry thing, because
    equal, or equivalent valence, pure and simple, might not be 'what the body needs.'
    I think the body needs a well-formedness of the white, though that doesn't necessarily
    mean geometrical well-formedness. But, perhaps the white needs a more positive
    valence in a coarser spatial frequency register than the black, while the black
    needs the stronger valience at a higher spatial frequency register or channel.\r\n\r\nAnd
    this might be because our neuro-synaptic codes for words or morphemes might have
    the form of compressed / compact large-cell or magnocellular encodings with specifying
    parvocellular (small-cell) codelets or attachments.\r\n\r\nOutside of this, dark
    / light (notanic) balance or equivalence might be just another term for good colour,
    and the dark / light of it isn't really leveraged in terms of 'what the body needs."
  created: '2006-11-18 15:17:46'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"BTW, when you take into account that English for example has a redundancy
    of over 50% (and apparently almost 70% according to one researcher) you start
    realizing that the parafovea playing over 60% of the role in reading (in optimal
    situations) is entirely plausible.\" [Hrant]\r\n\r\nI doubt this because the magnocellular
    encodings alone, are insufficient for visual wordform resolution. The redundancy--or
    better: the overdetermination--is at the rap / raevf* level. This means that only
    selective foveal activation of the parvocellullar codelets has to occur, except
    where a word is skipped.\r\n\r\n* role-architectural particular / role architecturally
    evoked form\r\n\r\n[me] Why force a choice?\r\n\r\n[you] Not a choice, an awareness,
    of differences and relative merits.\r\n\r\nIf this is your intent, I can understand
    your rhetorical practices, while bristling at your logic, labels and methods,
    and worrying about their productiveness in building a common understnding."
  created: '2006-11-18 16:10:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the magnocellular encodings alone, are\r\n> insufficient for visual wordform
    resolution.\r\n\r\nI don't know what magnocellular is. What is it, and what about
    it makes\r\nyou believe that we can't* decide -if \"only\" through heuristic guesswork-\r\nwhat
    a bouma (not a word) probably is?\r\n\r\n* And what about the skipped words (like
    sometimes \"and\") in the\r\nempirical evidence? What about Taylor & Taylor's
    claim that about\r\n60 short and common (and I would add distinctively-shaped)\r\nEnglish
    words are often skipped?\r\n\r\n> worrying about their productiveness\r\n\r\nMany
    people (especially conservative/established ones)\r\ndon't discuss openly unless
    they have something to lose.\r\nThey weren't discussing things until about 7 years
    ago.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-18 16:20:49'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[magnocellular] \"What is it[?]\"\r\n\r\nThe visual cortex is a mosaic of
    large-cell and small-cell neuro-transmitters, existing in different layers. The
    term for the large-cell neuro-transmitters is magnocellular, and the term for
    the small-cell neuro-trasmitters is parvocellular. It is known that the parafovea
    projects to the one and the fovea mainly to the other. The magnocellular stream
    codes information at a coarser granularity and spatial frequency than the parvocellular.\r\n\r\n\"what
    about it makes you believe that we can\u2019t decide--if \u201Conly\u201D through
    heuristic guesswork--what a bouma probably is?\"\r\n\r\n1) I don't know what 'heuristic
    guess-work' is in perceptual processing terms. Is it 'probability summation' on
    the basis of selective activation?\r\n2) The information is too coarse to be of
    use for visual wordform resolution without supplimentation, except when a n+1
    or 2* item in the visual stimulus stream is highly probable in grammatico-syntactic
    sense-following terms. It is too course because anything beyond ensemble statistics
    is unavailable due to <em>greater</em> lateral interference or crowding <em>in
    rhythmically spaced bounded maps with distance from fixation during immersion,
    and rising sharply at the foveal /parafoveal boundary</em>. Lateral interference
    or crowding are very well-documented, but the precise nature of the ensemble statistics
    isn't--hence my surmise about the coding of boumaform material being bi-valent:
    involing both magnocellular (coarse) and (yoked fine) parvocellular elements.
    Taylor's statistics also show that perceptual access to the fine elements are
    necessary for sufficient wordform differentiation to make reading possible.\r\n\r\n*
    n = the word or word-part being fixated; n+1 or 2 are the next items in the stimulus
    stream."
  created: '2006-11-18 18:03:46'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: '[regarding heuristic guesswork]: It might be useful to add that a simple
    ''template matching'' construction of how this might be schematized is all but
    totally abandoned, even by the most conservative, and certainly by the most established
    vision and cognitive neuro-scientists.'
  created: '2006-11-18 18:17:08'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: See my italicized elaborations in the 11:03 (18 November, 2006) post two posts
    up.
  created: '2006-11-18 20:03:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Peter, your points have to do with Notan in as much as Notan is resolution
    and so foveal /parafoveal dependent - yes? \r\n\r\nI think we should look at vwy
    & VWY combinations next. What do you all say?"
  created: '2006-11-18 23:55:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Eben, let me try to explain what I am driving at without using the terms
    'color' or 'notan', which may be getting in the way. Then I will relate what I
    am saying to these. \r\n\r\nI think we all agree that some kind of dynamic balance
    and harmony is needed in a good text faces, and it involves both the blacks and
    whites. \r\n\r\nThis harmony is not only a question of how black and white relate,
    but also how black relates to black, and white to white. \r\n\r\nFor example if
    you thicken a hairline in a character, it has a dramatic effect on the look and
    balance of a character, and if you do it systematically, a big effect on the whole
    of a typeface. Have you changed the whites? Yes, but barely--it could be less
    that 1%. On the other hand, the black might be increased by 100% or more. And
    the eye is more sensitive to this 100% increase in a black that to the same amount
    which is say a 1% increase in the width of the white of a counter. \r\n\r\nHence
    in judging how good the balance is in a type, the designer would do well to be
    attentive not only to how the black and white relate to each other and affect
    one another, but also the interaction of black and black. \r\n\r\nOne of the features
    of a good text face is that the features of the letters that \u2018read\u2019
    come across to the readers, but nothing else obtrudes or interferes with that
    information. Thus a black feature such as a stem or a terminal should be clearly
    noticable, but not force itself to attention more than other parts of the letter.
    In order to do this, the different black parts of the letter need to be in balance
    with one another. This is partly a matter of how dark each is, and how distant
    they are from one another\u2014both factors affect whether the overall effect
    is balanced or not. \r\n\r\nFurthermore, in general one letter should not pop
    out as much more dominant than another. They need to be in balance with one another
    so that what is readily recognized is words, rather than individual letters. \r\n\r\nIn
    a while I will post further applying this to the concepts of \u2018even color\u2019
    and \u2018notan\u2019. "
  created: '2006-11-19 00:03:51'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Have you changed the whites? Yes, but barely\u2014it could be less
    that 1%. On the other hand, the black might be increased by 100% or more. </cite>
    \r\nWhen I first read this I was shocked but then I began to realize that you
    don't mean in the 'gyph space' where the ratio would be 1:1 but on the page. The
    exact ratio of which is impossible to know but I do get your point I think. Also
    while I might take issue with the odd semantic issue here or there in what your
    saying - in general I say 'fair enough'. Go ahead & build your arguement.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    black relates to black, and white to white</cite>\r\nBy this you mean thinks like
    stem to stem & counter to counter - yes?\r\n\r\nPeter, about the valance ratio*
    and the asymetry: I have re-read your phrase several times now and I don't feel
    I have even started to understand it. Can you elborate for me? The closest guess
    I can hazard is that you are wondering if working for good color or 'balanced'
    notan is what we need on a fuctional basis for reading or if it's just a kind
    of related but side issue, or maybe just an artsy pleassure trip.\r\n\r\n* a relative
    capacity to unite or react or interact (ratio) - apparently\r\n\r\nI was saying
    something related earlier when I was talking to William about the 'disappearing'
    glyph. I had said that that some glyph sytems were easier to harmonize than others.
    And that the value of this harmony was lower in the sytems that were too easy.
    Yes, there might be Notanic balance there but it probably wasn't getting us the
    cue value needed.\r\n\r\nWhat I had meant to go on to say then was that complex
    notanic balances made neccesary by what might look initially like kooky glyph
    shapes probably add to the cue value offered by those kooky shapes. In other words
    the value of getting a glyph to become part of the family and stop drawing undue
    attetion to itself may be closely related or even parallel to the difficulty in
    getting it to happen. There is the O after all - it's quite a bit less kooky than
    an L which is mostly difficult or a double storey g which is to my mind hyper-wacky.
    I don't know- maybe suggesting that the power of the g's cue is stronger than
    the O is silly. What do you think?\r\n\r\nAbout 'forcing choice' - I agree with
    Hrant. I don't want to tell anybody what terms to use. I just want to make the
    case for Notan. If you a re student of type you shouldn't really avoid learning
    about the term color. But once you have you can choose your own tools. One - the
    other - or both. Everybody can ( & will ) do what they want. I am hoping that
    by dicing the Notanic issues fine, ( after all Notan is a big idea and should
    not be swallowed whole! ) and showing how I see it at work that I will learn more
    about it and maybe make the idea & it's utility more widely accessable & then
    maybe accepted.\r\n\r\nAbout the parafovea, You are saying that Hrant's emphasis
    on it is not bourne out by the studies you have read. Is that it?\r\n "
  created: '2006-11-19 05:57:57'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Thought Provoking?!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Zebra_5831.jpg]"
  created: '2006-11-19 08:07:48'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Explore:\r\n1. Black lines on white background Or white lines on black background?\r\n2.
    How are the lines spaced where? \r\n___ Linearly, Exponentialy, randomly, oddly
    or evenly?\r\n___ Show divergence or convergence?\r\n3. What direction do the
    lines run where?\r\n___ Horizontally, Vertically, Diagonoally, Clockwise or CCW?\r\n4.
    Differences in the lines distribution on the various parts of the body?\r\n5.
    Any More?"
  created: '2006-11-19 08:43:40'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Aziz, where are you going with this? The categories of observable factors
    you mention amount to little more than a list of factors. Don''t you have an opinion
    ( other than the back of zebra... ) or an specific obsovation to share?  '
  created: '2006-11-19 09:26:30'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Eben Sorkin, in black and white: \r\nFrustrated and feeling like a deaf in
    a feast carnival, I posted the back of the zebra in the hope of giving the visitors
    of this seem-to-be-never-ending thread and myself a break...\r\nThough I read
    all the previous postings (some twice), I got nothing save headache!\r\nAm I getting
    old? Are Typophiles postin puzzles?\r\nYour Advice please: Should I delete or
    maintain it?"
  created: '2006-11-19 14:04:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Here is an example of the changes in a hairline I was talking about. And
    yes, I was talking about changes within the glyph, not the whole page. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/o
    test copy_4172.gif]\r\n\r\nHere the hairline at the top and bottom of the right
    character is 100% thicker than that of the left. But the area of  white space
    within the right counter is only 13% less than the left.\r\n\r\nHence the need
    to compare the blacks, and eg. attend to how hairlines and other strokes and terminals
    balance within characters and from character to character. \r\n\r\nAccording to
    the book, \"The Yin/Yang of Painting\", in the traditional Chinese philosophy
    of painting, n\xF3ng d\xE0n (notan in Japanese) is one of four balances characterizing
    the overall balance of yin-yang within a painting: \"value (light/dark) and texture
    (thick/thin) to color (warm/cold) and brushwork (sharp/blurred)\" which together
    form \"a true balance of opposites.\"\r\n\r\nNote that thick-thin is one of these
    that is traditionally regarded as an somewhat independent variable, as I have
    noted earlier and illustrated here.  \r\n\r\nEvenness of color is an additional
    concept special to reading scripts, because it helps only the key cues from the
    letter to be easily detected, without 'noise' from other variations of dark-light.
    \ \r\n\r\nHrant's caricature of evenness of color as meaning reducing everything
    to grey is a misunderstanding of the concept. You will note that Hrant boasted
    about the great 'notan' in his Patria. Then he acknowledged, though, that my point
    about the serif on the L being too small was correct. In fact, as I said my analysis
    was based on 'color', not notan. The notan in Patria is generally good, but there
    are all kinds of color problems, IMHO. \r\n\r\nProperly understood even color
    sometimes promotes *greater* diversity of form, as in this case, where the L often
    should take the biggest serif in the font for color reasons. As you referenced,
    I noted in my presentation at TypeCon Caslon's variations in letter forms. What
    I pointed out was that some of these variations actually promote even color better
    than more uniformity would.\r\n\r\nThe reason why the 'grey' argument misses the
    point is that we are dealing with strokes, not pixels sprayed over an area. The
    question becomes how the strokes and terminals and their weights in different
    parts and orientations will balance best, within the constraint of an apparently
    uniform average black/white density from letter to letter. A (usually assymetrical)
    balance of blacks within the letter is also desirable for the same reason of keeping
    out 'noise' that distracts from readability, and promoting easy identification
    of those salient features of the letter that enable words containing it to be
    easily read. "
  created: '2006-11-19 14:10:47'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Eben, I have warmed up to Hrant's introduction of the term 'notan' into type
    talk. What has helped is to think of this in terms of 'leveraging' the light /
    dark, or leveraging the black and white of the item under consideration.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I've resisted is a too simple schematization of what 'good' or 'ideal' notan means
    in the typographic domain. You seem to be attuned to this as well. The constructs
    'equivalence' and 'balance' when applied to the 'black and white of it' in type
    are 'floating signifiers'. What <em>specifically</em> do they call for? If it's
    something spatial, do lights and ultrabolds have non-ideal notan? If 'equivalence'
    is 'equi-valence' or equivalent valence, do we take our cue from zebras, camouflage,
    Shirokuro, Neville Brody's typeface State? Must the valence of the white be as
    strong as the valence of the black in 'psycho-active' (visual cortex centered
    neurophysical activational) terms? Or is the situation more like what Bill suggests,
    where the whites must be well formed and in some kind of synchronicity, and the
    blacks as well?\r\n\r\nWe all have some good intuitions about this on a practical
    level, but at a certain point these intuitions diverge. My effort is to try to
    give the best intuitions perceptual processing 'teeth'. This can lead into areas
    as complicated as particle physics, and sometimes I let out ideas that are highly
    provisional (but that don't come out of the blue!). And it can lead to questions
    about how parafoveal processing is schematized, what it's role in immersion is,
    and what the prospects of an enhancement of it's role are. Because if the parafoveal
    component is of pre-eminent concern, an assessment of what it needs (perhaps in
    abstraction from or opposition to what foveal vision needs or wants) will skew
    our answer. It can also lead to questions about whether the information provided
    by the whites is dealt with in a different spatial frequency channel than the
    information coming from the blacks.\r\n\r\nI don't really want to be the lone
    hunter at this Hrant+1 level, but I do want to keep it in front of us, so that
    we don't foreclose too soon on the answer to the question of what in the typographic
    domain leveraging notan means.\r\n\r\nBut, let me repeat, the lack of a final
    answer doesn't preclude intelligent action. Acknowledgement of the relevance of
    the reference axes indexed by the term goes a long way."
  created: '2006-11-19 15:49:35'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Aziz: You said: <cite> Frustrated and feeling like a deaf in a feast carnival
    </cite> - does this mean that you are interested & feel like you are being left
    out? Or something else? I can assure you that I have to read & re-read much of
    this myself. It's only by asking alot of questions & people being kind enough
    to answer them that I have my limited understanding. Of course there are other
    threads here & a whole internet. But you are here. You must hope for something.
    What is it? I don't know that anybody here can help. But we can try. And - maintain
    your posts!\r\n\r\nWilliam: You said: <cite> And yes, I was talking about changes
    within the glyph, not the whole page. </cite> You math has me puzzled then. Just
    to be sure, do you mean within the UPM? Or the area of a line of text? Maybe you
    are talking about the cumulative effect of the small ( 1% ) change.  Maybe there
    are 100 letter 'o' s on a page & 1% change yeilds a 100 fold change. Any closer?
    Perhaps the maths don't matter. I had an idea that they were important to getting
    your point though. In any event - your post deserves a more complete response
    which I will have to compose later on. Peter, Likewise. And nice post too! I think
    it's very pleasant the way that ( despite various frictions ) we have managed
    to cross polinate many of our ideas. I feel richer for it. Thanks! \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-19 18:59:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Eben,the top points on the horizontal arches of the left 'o' are 20 units
    apart and those on the right 'o' are 40 units apart. That's a 100% increase in
    the width of those black strokes. Every other point in the outlines of the two
    o's is the same. \r\n\r\nIf you compare the area of the white within the counters
    of the two o's, then the white area within the 'o' on the right is 13% smaller
    than the white area within the 'o' on the left. \r\n\r\nClear?\r\n\r\nps I probably
    could have got the 100% increase and 1% decrease I mentioned above by starting
    with a thinner hairline, but this is more typical. "
  created: '2006-11-19 19:26:56'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> That\u2019s a 100% increase in the width of those black strokes. </cite>\r\n\r\nOh!
    I see what your after. This makes perfect sense to me now. Of course 100% is just
    one relevant number or merasure of what's happening. There is also the increase
    in black on the page overall assuming more than two glyphs & more than two 'o's.
    And the increase in black for the glyph in the em overall is not 100%. Even though
    it happens twice! Still, I think you could be justified in saying, because of
    where the change is occuring, you are getting a disproportionaly large effect
    for the size of the shift. <cite> Are you saying this? </cite> If so, I would
    agree about that. The import of this change is bigger than you would get from
    a numericaly equivalent change in the thick verticals. Where I think you are going
    with this; is \"here is an example where the black changes alot & the white does
    not.\" Yes? And that the white & black do not shift 'evenly' hence a crack in
    the concept of Notan. Yes? <cite> Just guessing. </cite>"
  created: '2006-11-20 10:07:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Most of this thread is over my head (and I don't have time to read it all),
    and very lacking in examples as asked for.\r\n\r\nHere's a thing I did about 10
    years ago - part of my first (and only) family with FontShop. It is actually based
    upon a Japanese typeface which was made from paper cut outs in a positive form.
    I wanted to create type that would appear as negative spaces from random black
    shapes just as an experiment to see how it would work.\r\n\r\nI've never seen
    it used anywhere!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Notan_5857]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2006-11-20 15:06:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, I'm really not trying to strike you down indiscriminately, but you
    keep forging in the wrong direction, and not trying to listen, maybe even trying
    not to listen. Comparing percentages?! Jeezus. I would spend the time detailing
    the problems in your latest posts, but only if it benefits people besides you
    (since you yourself are not listening to me at all) and I'm not sure that would
    be the case. Guys, this is a group effort, and if I'm going to be the only one
    trying to curtail irrelevance (not to mention outright mischaracterization - \"boasting
    about Patria's notan\" indeed - complain to Peter, mensch boy) I'm not going to
    bother.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n> the parafovea projects to the [magnocellular stream]\r\n>
    and the fovea mainly to the [parvocellular].\r\n\r\nI did know that rods and cones
    (to use the more accessible \"street\" terms... hint, hint :-) have a different
    distribution in the fovea versus the parafovea, with one being able to pick up
    fine detail and color, with the other being better at picking up movement (look
    at a CRT monitor askance, and you are much more likely to see the flicker). But
    unless you can show that they map to different areas of the brain there's not
    much to talk about (and you'd further need to show that the area of the brain
    that the cones map to has some sort of bouma-decipherment impediment). If there
    is anything to talk about here, I might talk about how that fact might be a notch
    against your theory of boumas being picked up in the fovea (as well).\r\n\r\n>
    I don\u2019t know what \u2018heuristic guess-work\u2019 is in perceptual\r\n>
    processing terms. Is it \u2018probability summation\u2019 on the\r\n> basis of
    selective activation?\r\n\r\nI don't want to get too Rumsfeld, but it sort of
    refers to knowing you don't know. It's exactly not anything to do with summing
    probabilities, or anything deterministic. It's what happens when the brain needs
    to balance the risk of failure against speed, which does not [need to] happen
    in the fovea.\r\n\r\n> The information is too coarse to be of use for visual wordform
    resolution without supplimentation\r\n\r\n1) But you do have the \"supplementation\"
    in the form of grammatical and letterwise redundancy. Although these are rarely
    enough algorithmically, <cite>they are enough heuristically</cite>.\r\n2) If it
    wasn't enough, we would never completely saccade over words. We do, and you shouldn't
    choose to ignore that.\r\n\r\n> What I\u2019ve resisted is a too simple schematization\r\n\r\nIt's
    a matter of educational progression. You don't teach hi-schoolers Einstein's laws,
    you teach them Newton's laws, which are known to be \"wrong\", but \"right enough\".
    This is especially true if you don't even know Einstein's laws yourself! :-/  It's
    not about Truth, it's about progress.\r\n\r\n> very lacking in examples as asked
    for.\r\n\r\nIndeed.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-20 19:25:30'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Nick, all typefaces are (have) Notan. No entrance fee, no qualifying, no judging
    & no prize. Notan is not a special rarified state or quality. It's just a way
    of looking at one aspect of type. Go back & read a bit more. It think it may get
    a little clearer. Thanks for showing us your type!
  created: '2006-11-20 19:49:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's hard to read this crap. There's too much noise, too much terminological
    divergence, and too much guesswork. You really have to have a vested interest
    (psychologically) to bother filtering through it all.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-20 19:53:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Time for some more examples I think. Hrant, would you stick around for those?
    I won't get them up today but maybe Tuesday.
  created: '2006-11-20 20:03:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Stick around? Yes, I don't plan on causing a massive freeway pile up. This
    week.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-20 20:05:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">yourself are not listening to me at all\r\n\r\nWrong. I just don't agree,
    and gave good reasons why. I did fuse Peter's praise of Patria with your response.
    Sorry about that. But if insults are your only response to carefully considered
    arguments, the fruits of hard work on type, then I can't be bothered to discuss
    type with you further, as I have probably unwisely tried in this thread. \r\n\r\n>And
    that the white & black do not shift \u2018evenly\u2019 hence a crack in the concept
    of Notan.\r\n\r\nI think it is a bit off too call it a 'crack in the concept of
    notan', as if notan in type design were a very clear and established concept and
    doctrine--which it is not. I wouldn't say 'crack' because that would be conceding
    that the concept of 'notan' is already a success in explaining a great many things.
    But I think it can only usefully explain some aspects of type design. I would
    say rather that you are trying to stretch the concept of notan to phenemona it
    can't really explain--including the greater impact in variation of hairlines vs
    of whites.\r\n\r\nWhat exactly about type design do you think 'notan' supposed
    to explain? All good design? Part of it? What part or aspect? \r\n\r\nI like the
    notion of 'notan' as describing what Chris called 'locking together' the whites
    and blacks. Or Cyrus Highsmith's description of 'becoming part of the paper instead
    of sitting on it.' It is indeed a very important part of good type design.  \r\n\r\nBut
    as a general theory of type design what does it tell us? You seem to be advocating,
    if I don't misread you, that balancing black and white is pretty much the whole
    story. \r\n\r\nMy arguments were to the point that evenness of color is another
    important consideration. The point I made about small changes in hairlines having
    a big impact on color is only one point. There are many more concerning color
    that I don't see how it is reasonable to explain by 'notan'. \r\n\r\nFirst of
    all there is the issue of consistency of blacks. The eye will pick up much more
    readily a variation in thickness of blacks from character to character than it
    will a variation in eg width of counters between the b and the d.       \r\n\r\nSecond,
    there are all kinds of things done with terminals to give balance to a seriffed
    font. These are quite understandable in terms of balancing of the black of a character,
    but I don't see how you can 'get there from here' using 'notan'.\r\n\r\nAs an
    example, look at a typical E--here from Caslon 540--with serifs cut off and then
    with serifs:  \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/E Caslon 540 w and wo
    serifs_5457.png]\r\n\r\nIf you use considerations of 'color' then the function
    of the heavy vertical serifs (much heavier than the horizontal) is easy to explain:
    they balance the character within its side bearings, so the black is distributed
    more evenly left and right, up and down. Without the serifs it is obviously unbalanced,
    as you can see. \r\n\r\nNow in the abstract, every time you change the black you
    change the white, so that theoretically you could give equivalent explanations
    with only the black, only the white, or both. But in practice the eye  feels the
    weight of the blacks more powerfully than the whites, so looking to that balance--even
    a physical balance as if they had real weight--is natural and I think likely reflects
    the way the brain works. And no, I am not saying that this balance excludes notan,
    it is just that notan cannot do all the work. \r\n\r\nSo how do you explain why
    the serifs on the E help by comparing black and white, with no other concept?
    And if other concepts are needed what is wrong with 'even color' as one of them?
    \r\n\r\nI don't have any problem with notan as an important concept in type design.
    My problem is with 'notan imperialism', which wants to replace other traditional
    and valuable ideas, such as even color.\r\n\r\nAs I said, within Chinese philosophy
    of art n\xF3ng d\xE0n is only one of at least four balances; it seems to me that
    trying to make 'notan' do too much work in explaining good type design either
    broadens the concept to where nobody knows what is means, or pushes out other
    useful concepts."
  created: '2006-11-20 21:33:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> carefully considered arguments\r\n\r\nYou do yourself too much credit.
    For an argument to be carefully\r\nconsidered it must consider the other arguments
    carefully.\r\n\r\n> as if notan in type design were a very clear and established
    concept and doctrine\r\n\r\nHmmm, you wanna start with this one? No you don't.\r\nI
    know because we tried, and it was a non-starter.\r\n\r\n> in practice the eye
    feels the weight of the blacks more powerfully than the whites\r\n\r\nOr maybe
    we should start with this pure illogic? Nope, not that either.\r\n\r\nOh, I know,
    let's start by not talking about notan at all! Because that's the only thing that
    would really satisfy you. Because your world is fixed, and there's no room left.
    \"Traditional Values\", hear, hear!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-20 22:22:40'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"I might talk about how that fact might be a notch against your theory of
    boumas being picked up in the fovea (as well).\"\r\n\r\nIt might be, but what
    you attribute to me is not an adequate characterization of what I claim. My theory
    is that boumas (bounded maps) are indexed in parafoveal vision and some ensemble
    statistics gathered about them there, with foveal vision detecting selective criterial
    specifying information essential to visual wordform resolution. In most cases
    sense-context cannot narrow down the field of possible next boumas sufficiently
    for just those ensemble statistics to push the probability summation to good enough
    certainty about identity to support sense following. Exceptions are the 60 most
    skipped words, which are mostly syntactically highly probable from context. 'Picking
    up' of boumas in immersive reading is a two-step operation--unless by picking
    up you mean what I've called indexing. Probability summation is by definition
    not an algorithmic thing. \r\n\r\nAnd, by the way, rods and cones are not 'street'
    terms for large-cell and small-cell neuro-transmitters, that is for 'magnocellular'
    and 'parvocellular' transmitters. The <em>retina</em> is a mosaic of rods and
    cones with different distributions and densities at different retinal locations.
    The <em>visual cortex</em> is a mosaic of large-cell and small-cell neuro-transmitters,
    existing in different layers of the brain, with different connectivities at different
    locations. Clusters of rods and cones project to clusters of neurotransmitters
    once they have passed through a ganglion cell layer, where they are summed and
    averaged. The mechanics and ratios of how many rods and cones project to how many
    and which neurotransmitters is a rapidly emerging area of research. How supportable
    your schematisms are is in large part dependant on what such research uncovers.
    \r\n\r\nThis is tangential to the notan issue but not irrelevant to the perspectival
    issues predisposing you to a certain 'take' on notan."
  created: '2006-11-21 00:20:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Peter, I was simplifying your theory [as well], sorry.\r\n\r\n> Exceptions
    are the 60 most skipped words\r\n\r\nIt makes no sense for there to be a limit
    of 60. And it makes no sense for there not to be a mechanism (like the one I describe)
    that reads things in the parafovea. Even if the limit of words is low, there has
    to be something else going on.\r\n\r\n> a rapidly emerging area of research.\r\n\r\nLet's
    hope it's rapid enough so it helps before we're too old.  :-)\r\nCould MS maybe
    speed it up?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-21 00:51:22'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"And it makes no sense for there not to be a mechanism (like the one I describe)
    that reads things in the parafovea. Even if the limit of words is low, there has
    to be something else going on.\"\r\n\r\nMaybe not to you.\r\n\r\nThe mechanism
    you sum up as 'heuristic guess-work\u2019 needs to be formalized or operationalized
    or elaborated in perceptual processing terms that take into account the mechanisms
    known or thought to exist inside the visual cortex. Unless you think the heuristic
    guesswork happens beyond the visual cortex in some higher area of the brain. Then
    you need to specify what perceptual features the cerebral cortex works from, how
    they are assembled in the visual cortex, and what guessing looks like in neuromechanical
    terms in the cerebral cortex, and where it occurs.\r\n\r\nThe limitations you
    like to believe are not hardwired are imposed by the constraints placed upon parafoveal
    detection due to what Denis Pelli calls 'crowding' and others call 'contour interactions'
    or lateral 'interference.' Study for yourself the literature on lateral interference,
    and study the literature on neuro-mechanical stimulus information pooling and
    relative receptive field densities as information moves through the visual cortex,
    and I believe the functional anatomical contstraints that make the limitations
    make sense will become apparent to you.\r\n\r\nI've claimed--in contrast to most
    of vision science--that the crowding in the parafovea that is anatgonistic to
    letter recognition in the parafoveal field serves a critical function in reading,
    because it biases the response of the visual cortex towards the whole, and provides
    some critical pre-recognitional information about it: just enough to make the
    selective activation of criterial letter-featural information provided by foveal
    vision at and around the point of fixation massively effective. The criterial
    featural information is set up by the black and white in concert, as is the pre-recognitional
    information that the parafoveal viewing extracts."
  created: '2006-11-21 01:29:32'
date: '2006-11-08 00:13:44'
title: The good ship Notanic

---
