---
author:
  name: lapiak
  picture: 111789
body: "I recently bought the Adobe Type Collection, OpenType Edition from Monotype
  Imaging <a href=\"http://www.fonts.com/FindFonts/RecentReleases/2006/Adobe-Type-Coll-OT-Edition.htm\">here</a>
  for $3999, when it was on sale for a limited time before it went back up to $4999.
  It did cut a big hole in my savings since I'm a starving student.\r\n\r\nI was wondering
  what other people's opinions are, since some like to build a small collection over
  time rather than buy a huge collection. Personally, I thought it was a steal for
  a graduating student, but nowadays, I'm drooling over some more newer typefaces
  from Hoefler + Frere-Jones, Emigre, Underware, and Storm that I could've used the
  $4000 on, though I'll end up with a small collection of families. In some ways,
  I feel a bit of regret, but in other ways, I feel like I'm taking the collection
  I have now for granted.\r\n\r\nDid I make a bad move by purchasing a large collection
  of classics but not so much on the fresh, distinctive, contemporary side? Or did
  I just start a typical library where future expansion is inevitable?\r\n\r\nThanks
  for your thoughts and opinions."
comments:
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "$3999?! This is twice my annual income, Starving student?!\r\nWhat a Crazy
    World!\r\nA Font Bomb in one place and Car Bomb in another!"
  created: '2006-11-09 06:49:47'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> Did I make a bad move by purchasing a large collection of classics \r\n\r\nYou
    tell us, has the investment paid for itself yet? Are your clients happy? Are their
    customers happy? Would they be happier with fresher fonts? Tell us more about
    the type of work you're doing, and the type of clients you're doing it for?"
  created: '2006-11-09 07:01:51'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Personally, I -- after a thorough preliminary research, of course -- would
    pick a flexible family or a couple fonts from each category. I'm not saying that
    you should limit yourself, but, on the contrary, that limiting yourself would
    result in type usage mastery -- over time, of course.\r\n\r\nHmm, let me reword
    that. More choice is good, but only if you know what you're doing."
  created: '2006-11-09 07:06:01'
- author:
    name: Matt Squire
  body: "Brampitoyo is right, \r\n\r\nI am by no means an expert but I have been around
    a little while and I still limit myself to few typefaces, I have my favourites
    that I know how to use. \r\n\r\nI feel that what you have done is a bit of a waste
    of money, it is good to have a good selection of fonts but you may be digging
    yourself a big hole. You have given yourself so much choice that it may be more
    damaging rather than offering you more options. \r\n\r\nClich\xE9 but true, quality
    not quantity. \r\n\r\nM"
  created: '2006-11-09 08:37:35'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I could understand buying Adobe's massive collection for use at a huge firm
    with enough clients that most of those fonts will inevitably be needed, but for
    a student to buy it for freelancing seems insane. \r\n\r\nYou could have bought
    Bitstream's Type odyssey for a lot less and then picked up a huge number of fonts
    from other foundries to round stuff out. But hey, at least you'll always be able
    to design with the most cliche fonts of the previous century. And Myriad."
  created: '2006-11-09 14:26:00'
- author:
    name: lapiak
    picture: 111789
  body: "sii: I'm interested in starting up my own small business after graduation,
    so after spending hours on Typophile, I thought that the Adobe collection offers
    some of the top classic and well designed fonts for the best bang for the buck.
    It would be more than enough for my clients, but I agree, a lot of the type, although
    well designed, are overused. I bought this CD 6 months ago, but this sudden feeling
    just came to me yesterday.\r\n\r\nI could've used the money to buy a couple families
    from H+FJ, Emigre, and Underware but I might end up with only 7 families, and
    a client may want something completely different from the 7 families that I have
    that wouldn't be a problem with the Adobe package.\r\n\r\nI don't know, there's
    pros and cons, but I even though I have a wide range of flexibility, I am going
    to limit myself to some families to master, while having additional type that
    can be used as display when the occasion rises. Even if it's overused, it still
    looks great."
  created: '2006-11-09 16:29:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'Please come back in a year and tell us how it worked out. Maybe having all
    those options right at your fingers will end up being a big advantage in terms
    of time and flexibility. '
  created: '2006-11-09 17:55:04'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "With that $ , you could tour one of the Copywrong countries (the list on
    the rise) for 2 weeks with a fonty <a href=\"http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/magazine/6122072.stm\">Hinglish</a>-speaking
    guide then go back home with that and more CD Collections!\r\nThinking of setting
    up a tour company exclusively for some Typophiles?!\r\nMore income-generating
    than designing <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/19348\">Fonts</a> and making
    <a href=\"http://www.crAUSwords.com/flowers/WFlowers.htm\">Flowers</a>?"
  created: '2006-11-09 17:56:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '<a href="http://www.adobe.com/education/products/typeclassics.html">Adobe
    Type Classics for Learning</a> (I think about $100) and Bitstream ''s <a href="http://www.myfonts.com/products/bitstream/cambridge/">Cambridge
    Collection</a> ($199) would give you a core of excellent fonts at less than a
    tenth the price. It wouldn''t be as complete, but then you would be free to get
    more things from other foundries as the need arose.  '
  created: '2006-11-09 18:10:41'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I think, over time, the investment will pay off. Most large investments don't
    have instant returns. However, for future font licensing I would suggest focusing
    and paying attention to what your clients needs are and license accordingly. I'd
    guess you'll license more current designs and the pay-off will be instant as the
    client will love what you've done. :^)
  created: '2006-11-09 18:47:15'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I agree with Tiffany. If I had been in your position I would have spent the
    money on a combination of fewer fonts, a new laptop and top-shelf liquor. However,
    as you have spent the money (selling them would incur a substantial loss) you
    should put buyers remorse aside and look at the best way to make a return on the
    investment. '
  created: '2006-11-09 19:32:03'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "i've never purchased a full library. i spec new type for most jobs and then
    have my clients buy me a license, and sometimes buy themselves a license.\r\n\r\nmy
    employer, however, has bought libraries but would never shell out that kind of
    cash (we bought the Adobe library several years ago when it was much less expensive,
    and a bit smaller).\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt : http://www.hewnandhammered.com : rnrmf!"
  created: '2006-11-09 20:54:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>i spec new type for most jobs and then have my clients buy me a license,
    and sometimes buy themselves a license.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf you don't mind my asking,
    how well does that usually go (do you have to do a lot of convincing?) and what
    sort of clients do you have? I'm always interesting in finding out how designers
    are passing on the cost of type to clients. "
  created: '2006-11-09 21:06:04'
- author:
    name: lapiak
    picture: 111789
  body: "Miss Tiffany: I think that was my initial thought; that this is a lifetime
    investment. A big reason why I bought the collection was from the research that
    I've done, looking up what are \"the best\" serif and sans serif fonts, as well
    as referring to Bringhurst, I found that the type collection has most of the well
    known classics. It just dawned upon me the more I hung out here, the more I'm
    realizing that most of the well-known ones are overused. Even if they are beautiful,
    I should, as a young designer, go more contemporary.\r\n\r\nHaving the idea that
    it's an investment that will pay off is a little reassuring, since I will be charging
    the clients for typeface licensing. Considering that 3/4th of the payment I made
    toward this were from scholarships, I shouldn't feel too bad. I can always add
    Verlag to my collection one day ;)"
  created: '2006-11-09 23:13:46'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "One sidenote. Although looking at what is considered as \"the best\" serif
    or sans is a great idea, you shouldn't base your buying decision off a review
    alone. This may be the web age, but looking at catalogues \u2013 and, perhaps
    more importantly, specimen prints \u2013 are no less important."
  created: '2006-11-10 00:27:37'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "I don't think it's a bad decision at all. As typophiles, some of us (myself
    especially) get a bit jaded about the classics, and addicted to the novelty of
    new releases. But the Adobe collection has a huge number of very usable and versatile
    faces, not all of them staid workhorses, either. You could put together a very
    contemporary publication using Warnock Pro and PMN Caecilia, both of which are
    part of the the collection.\r\n\r\nYou've got a solid base to build from; as the
    opportunity arises, build on it with newer releases from more adventurous foundries."
  created: '2006-11-10 02:54:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Knowing that most of the money came from scholarships the purchase makes a
    lot more sense. My scholarships only make a small dent in tuition, but if I had
    an extra $3,000 laying around in scholarship funds, I'd be pretty tempted to spend
    a lot of it on fonts. Especially if I was planning to do freelance work later.
  created: '2006-11-10 04:21:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Type Odyssey 2 from Bitstream at $1500 would have been a less expensive way
    to acquaint yourself with the "canon" of typefaces. '
  created: '2006-11-10 04:47:50'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Shoulda coulda woulda\r\n\r\nPeople, don't be gross. Joachim already has
    buyers' remorse.\r\n\r\nThat collection is very solid and substantial. Caslon,
    Minion, Jenson, Chaparral, Dante, Meridien, Perpetua, Galliard, Officina Sans,
    Joanna, Bickham Script Pro, Sava, Silentium, several Garamonds including the new
    Premier, etc. all in OT format isn't shabby at all. \r\n\r\nIts true there is
    a \"look\" to work done with only Adobe fonts. Avoid it by strategic purchases
    of other versatile families from other foundries. Adobe's OT library doesn't have
    anything like Dolly, Dalliance, Prensa, Neutraface, Quagmire, Luxury, or Neo Sans.
    As long as you're smart about how you use it, you're in good shape. Learning to
    expertly combine type will help you avoid that \"90's\" look.\r\n\r\nThe type
    you bought should last a long time. And no matter what collection you get, you'll
    still have to add to it. Just don't expect to never buy new typefaces again. That's
    something I'd say to any designer. "
  created: '2006-11-10 05:34:38'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "If you have to make a big investment, this one makes the most sense. Adobe
    OpenType versions give you access to old style figures (though, maddeningly, not
    in all cases), alternative weights, Central European accents, etc., that other
    issues do not. Your new collection deserves to be the center of any type library,
    and now you have it. It's certainly the center of mine.\r\n\r\nHaving said that,
    you can now move to gradual purchases averaging around $200 for complete families.
    The major exception is ITC Galliard Pro, issued only by ITC for $315, in which,
    at long last, Carter has authorized oldstyle figures for all the fonts/weights
    in Galliard, which the Adobe OpenType version does NOT offer! But after that,
    Storm's Regent II for $55, everything from JoshuaDarden.com or Hoefler-FJ, plus
    individual picks like Zingha from FontShop--these are your best future buys at
    more modest prices. And don't forget MyFonts.com sales: the Portguese family Esta
    for $12 per font now! Giddyup!"
  created: '2006-11-10 10:58:01'
- author:
    name: lapiak
    picture: 111789
  body: "<cite>The type you bought should last a long time. And no matter what collection
    you get, you\u2019ll still have to add to it. Just don\u2019t expect to never
    buy new typefaces again.</cite>\r\n\r\nI agree with that. With too many amazing
    contemporary ones from other foundries, I just can't stop there. I'm sure with
    what I have now would benefit me a lot when it comes to book design, something
    I hope to do in the future.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>Having said that, you can now move
    to gradual purchases averaging around $200 for complete families.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    don't know if it's just me, but it's hard to find complete families for $200.
    The Neutraface family seems like a really nice deal, but the ones I want from
    Hoefler+FJ are at least $500."
  children:
  - author:
      name: mondoB
    body: "Quote: it\u2019s hard to find complete families for $200.\r\n\r\n--At Hoefler-FJ:
      Requiem, Verlag, Gotham 1, Hoefler Titling, and Whitney Basic are $200 each
      family\r\n--At joshuadarden.com, all families are around $200, and all are top
      values\r\n--Via FontShop: Pocketype is $79 (5 fonts), Clifford 18 is two fonts
      for $40 each, Zingha family can be bought as four fonts for $40 each, ditto
      FF Maiola and Reminga; Richard Beatty's version of Kennerley, the best and most
      complete on the market, is $200 for the family\r\n--Via MyFonts: Whitman family
      is $140 or $17.50 per font, plus a score of sale-priced items, like Esta at
      $12 for each of four marvelous fonts\r\nand so on and so on...\r\n\r\nplenty
      of great buys out there if you spend the time surfing and shopping!\r\n"
    created: '2006-11-10 17:41:32'
  created: '2006-11-10 15:49:36'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: <em>Zingha from</em> [[Font Bureau]].
  created: '2006-11-10 16:04:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">That collection is very solid and substantial.\r\n\r\nWhile in your position,
    I probably would not have made the same choice, I absolutely agree with Carl.
    There are three great things about the Adobe Type library: 1. Adobe has set the
    standard as far as technical excellence. 2. Their own originals, with optical
    sizes and open type features are some of the most complete and flexible text faces
    around. 3. Slimbach, who has got to be one of the handful of best designers of
    text types in the world. "
  created: '2006-11-10 16:12:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It depends what you mean by a complete family.\r\n-Weight\r\n-Scaling\r\n-Optical
    sizes\r\n-Small caps and OSF\r\n-Monowidth\r\n-CE, Greek, Cyrillic etc. language
    support\r\n\r\nGenerally speaking, sans faces have more weights and scaling variants,
    while serif faces will have stuff like optical sizes and SC&osf.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-10 19:37:48'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Cyanide\r\n\r\nYou could have just gone to [yes, you are going to be censored
    by a moderator]. Oops. I'm going to be censored.\r\n\r\nI suppose one could wonder
    why every commercial type foundries library is available there for free for what,
    about a year now, but hush, let's not talk about that.\r\n\r\nAnd so it remains."
  created: '2006-11-13 05:50:58'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Gerald, what are you doing? With acts like that I'd think you want people
    to illegally download fonts. Yes, before you say it, with a little googling things
    can be found. But people won't find them through Typophile, not on my watch.
  created: '2006-11-13 06:36:31'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Tiffany\r\n\r\nI'd think a better approach would be to point out that it
    is unethical and illegal to copy fonts in such a manner. In California, violators
    face a $10,000 fine and jail time. At least, that is my understanding of the law
    that is supposedly in place. Also, anyone using bit torrent technology is putting
    their computer at extreme risk. Maybe pointing out the dangers of copying will
    prevent copying. Places like Pirates aren't going to be found easily, as they
    move around quite a bit, they have to. This is poisoned water, better to point
    that out to folks than ignore that it exists."
  created: '2006-11-13 16:42:54'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: The people to talk about it with are the type foundries. They'll be interested.
  created: '2006-11-13 17:13:16'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Gerald, I agree. Let's start a new thread and talk about it. \r\n\r\nHowever,
    I do not agree with posting links to sites which have software illegally made
    available for download to prove the point."
  created: '2006-11-13 17:44:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Just don\u2019t expect to never buy new typefaces again.\"\r\n\r\nYou've
    already spent the money so don't worry about it. Concentrate new purchases on
    specific client and project needs and mark up your bills to cover the expense
    just like the rest of your overhead.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-13 17:47:27'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: From a graphic design standpoint, you gotta start with the classics. I was
    just in charge of some major font purchases at my job and I opted to go with a
    full classics package, and a full modern family. The classics/originals package
    has really come in handy. There's always a need to have faces like Univers and
    Garamond lying around.
  created: '2006-11-13 18:36:47'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Tiffany\r\n\r\nI did not post a link, nor would I have, nor do I know what
    that link would be. But I have seen how the technology works and on that site.
    The bit torrent technology itself is not in anyway illegal and it is a valid instrument
    for transferring massive quantities of information.\r\n\r\nI walked away from
    that demonstration with vivid thoughts. First, that the illegal activity seems
    a generational thing. The participants act under the guise of \"sharing\" and
    I suspect that is what they think they are doing. It is also very game-like, with
    massive amounts of statistics and graphs, along with denigration for those who
    do not readily share back and applauds for those who willing overshare. The concept
    of theft isn't a consideration for the participants, they are scoring points and
    gathering virtual rewards, whether it be a music library, a film library, a type
    library. \r\n\r\nSecond, it would seem apparent that folks like this DO NOT buy
    fonts. Thus, I suspect this is less a threat to the type market than folks make
    it out to be, or, here, refuse to talk about. Ethical responsibility and respect
    for intellectual property are not a part of this scene. I doubt anyone who has
    actually ever paid for a font collection would put it up in a bit torrent scheme,
    more likely they illegally copied it in the first place. Another consideration
    is, would you actually want to trust the integrity of a font gathered in this
    manner? You get what you pay for?"
  created: '2006-11-14 06:52:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Article 27.2, UN Declaration of Human Rights:\r\n\r\n\"Everyone has the right
    to the protection of the moral and material interests resulting from any scientific,
    literary or artistic production of which he is the author.\"\r\n\r\nBut the UN,
    and that document, don't carry much weight with governments East and West these
    days, on far more serious issues than software piracy, setting the tone for the
    general population. At least the Enron crooks got their just desserts."
  created: '2006-11-14 07:24:18'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Gerald\r\n\r\nI agree with you. The people, in general, on those forums aren't
    those who make up the customers of foundries. I suppose you could also say that
    the majority of Typophile readers aren't the sort to download fonts illegally
    either. But, that wasn't my point. My point was (and is) that people, anyone,
    should not be able to find even information about finding illegally shared fonts
    here on Typophile. \r\n\r\nNo, I wouldn't trust the integrity of those fonts,
    and yes, they get what they <em>don't</em> pay for. "
  created: '2006-11-14 18:28:03'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Treat it like carpentars do. You buy a tool when you need one. Then you have
    it. \r\n\r\nI think collections like the ATL are really targetted at huge design/ad
    firms and print shops.\r\n\r\nFor most designers, we ultimately end up with a
    nice set of 6-12 typefaces that we reliably use all the time, and augment it with
    the occasional new face for a specific project."
  created: '2006-11-14 18:41:55'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> In California, violators face a $10,000 fine and jail time. \r\n\r\nI don't
    support font piracy, but statements like this are misleading. Those are maximum
    fines. I was once charged with careless driving, and found out that in Ontario
    this could lead to a five year jail sentence. Found out later that almost never
    would anyone do a week in jail, it was only a fine (mine was about $100). If you
    killed someone, you might get jail time, but the charge was almost raised to dangerous
    driving.\r\n\r\nSo while you might be able to get a four digit fine and jail time
    for type piracy in Calif, what is the actual level of punishment that is handed
    out. I suspect it is probation, and probably loss of the computer."
  created: '2006-11-14 19:48:04'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"Treat it like carpentars do. You buy a tool when you need one.\"\r\n\r\nIf
    only designers could ever break or lose their tools. Then they'd be compelled
    to get new ones. As it is, designers don't always realize it when their tools
    aren't useful anymore. "
  created: '2006-11-14 19:56:00'
- author:
    name: adnix
    picture: 109591
  body: "<cite>So while you might be able to get a four digit fine and jail time for
    type piracy in Calif, what is the actual level of punishment that is handed out.
    I suspect it is probation, and probably loss of the computer.</cite>\r\n\r\nActually,
    I believe the punishment in California for font piracy is a mandatory 1 week solitary
    confinement where they are forced to listen to the audiobook version of <cite>The
    Elements of Typographic Style (unabridged)</cite> as read by Governor Schwarzenegger.
    By the time Arnold finishes the \"Golden Section\" chapter, most offenders are
    completely reformed.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-14 21:49:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-14 22:34:49'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Cyanide, as long as you are a graphic designer for years to come, having
    a solid type library is never a bad thing.\r\n\r\nIn my own case, I used the $$$
    I had from jobs to get hardware and Adobe apps (which come with a little type
    library on their own), then licensed fonts on a job-b(u)y-job basis. I must admit
    though, people expect designers to have fonts, and if you're picking up work from
    someone who's already got a style guide, they would often rather hear \"yeah,
    I have Univers\" than \"so, I'm billing you for the fonts\". I've hit some snags
    that you won't with all the standards in your toolbox.\r\n\r\nDon't regret it.
    Everyone's got a cousin who knows a guy who can get X product for 50% less, or
    thinks that X product is a waste when you could get Y. All choices open and close
    doors. As long as you consider which are opening and closing, who cares? It's
    not what all of us would do, but I bet a lot of us would if we could..."
  created: '2006-11-16 15:55:40'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "I bought years ago the Adobe Type basics (65) set, for the reasons Chris
    Rugen mentioned, I can't always admit not owning a certain common(ish) font. I
    wouldn't have minded the whole library, but it was way too expensive for me.\r\nI've
    been buying fonts as needed, and last month accepted a very good offer for a Linotype
    Essentials 1+2 packet, so I should be sorted in some basic level for the time
    being. "
  created: '2006-11-16 17:25:38'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "jpad: i often ask for spec copies of the type from the designer or vendor,
    and once the clients are in love with the type and see the value added that the
    right typeface offers, i just make them understand that the cost of the type is
    part of the cost of doing business - it's not negotiable. but all of my clients
    are my clients because they understand that typography is what i do; i'm not an
    illustrator, or even a graphic designer; i'm a typographer.\r\n\r\nand gerald:
    where do you get the idea that bittorrent is dangerous? how so? there are lots
    and lots and lots of legitimate uses for it, and many software developers use
    it to make enormous files downloadable; open source projects like Democracy use
    it to take advantage of the hundreds of (legal) streaming media channels that
    are out there available without putting enormous strain on any one server.\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt
    : http://www.hewnandhammered.com : rnrmf!"
  created: '2006-11-20 03:50:43'
date: '2006-11-09 06:23:06'
node_type: forum
title: To buy or not to buy? (Adobe Type Library)

---
