---
author:
  name: missgiggles
  picture: 111889
body: why will it/ won't it?
comments:
- author:
    name: noftus
    picture: 111246
  body: I honestly can't think of a single reason why it would or should..
  created: '2006-11-11 15:13:25'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I agree. It won't, at least not in our lifetime.\r\n\r\nPhilosphically, I
    would think that use of the Roman alphabet will inevitably <i>eventually</i> die
    out, and be replaced with some other means of communication. This may take hundreds
    or thousands of more years, though."
  created: '2006-11-11 15:17:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Only organisms die out. Concepts just go dormant.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-11 15:28:54'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "We don't know exactly why, but for books and long magazine articles, the
    eye rebels at endless ribbons of sans serif type...it wants the contrasts and
    kinks of serif fonts, the more complex the better actually...a paradox, perhaps,
    but well established by many studies and, of course, our own personal experience
    reading. Remember the recent bio of Paul Renner set not in his creation Futura
    but in Celeste, and the better for it? \r\n\r\nPlus, how many bases are there
    for readable sans? All the new entrants derive from either Syntax, Gill, or Trade
    Gothic whereas serifs can derive from many more models with much more leeway for
    oddities to delight the eye. If anything's going to fade, it's the sans."
  created: '2006-11-11 15:50:49'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "I'll second Hrant with this quote I've just heard from Play Classical UK
    :\r\n\"Only paper flowers are afraid of the rain.\""
  created: '2006-11-11 16:42:30'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "I have a somewhat crazy theory of why serifs are better for readability:
    it's because the perceived spacing between letters stays similar at different
    scales. For readability (as opposed to legibility), the importance of the appearance
    at different scales comes from the imaging of a fixation point (bouma if you will)
    onto different areas of the retina, especially the fovea and parafovea.\r\n\r\nIn
    sans serif type, the gap between two letters becomes larger in direct proportion
    to the scale. If it's .5mm at 12pt, it will be 3mm at 72pt. But for type with
    serifs, the situation is different. At 12pt, the eye sees primarily the space
    between the stems, say .5mm again. But as the scale goes up, the eye is drawn
    more to the gap between the ends of the serifs, which is much smaller.\r\n\r\nProving
    this theory right or wrong is not an easy task, but if it does hold up, it would
    strongly suggest that serifs help readability at the level of deep visual processes,
    and are not just an quaint artifact that should be abandoned in modern times.\r\n\r\nWouldn't
    it be shocking if high-tech research on readability were to determine that the
    most optimum letterforms are essentially those of [[Nicholas Jenson]] from over
    500 years ago?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: michael_r
    body: I'll second Raph's comment. I've thought about this many times and raph's
      theory is one of the most intriguing explanations I have read. Maybe we can
      consider the eye to be like a flying scanner which has the physiological ability
      to "lock-on" to objects - even moving objects. The serifs could subtly prevent
      (or reduce occurances of) the eye targeting system from slipping out of the
      gaps between the characters.
    created: '2006-11-12 04:29:23'
  created: '2006-11-11 16:56:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it\u2019s because the perceived spacing between letters stays similar at
    different scales.\r\n\r\nInteresting. But I don't get why consistency across sizes
    would be important. When we get immersed into a given text it's at one size -
    in fact most text we read immersively is about the same size.\r\n\r\n> Wouldn\u2019t
    it be shocking if high-tech research on readability were\r\n> to determine that
    the most optimum letterforms are essentially\r\n> those of Nicholas Jenson from
    over 500 years ago?\r\n\r\nIt wouldn't be shocking to discover they're the most
    readable of what's already been designed. But considering how little progress
    we've made it's very unlikely to be true of what's possible in the future.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-11 17:39:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Sweet; salty. People like variety on the menu.
  created: '2006-11-11 17:59:19'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"We don\u2019t know exactly why, but for books and long magazine articles,
    the eye rebels at endless ribbons of sans serif type\"\r\n\r\nJohn, we don't know
    it at all. Go find the research that proves this. It's just the latest gobbledygook
    to explain preferences. \r\n\r\n\"All the new entrants derive from either Syntax,
    Gill, or Trade Gothic whereas serifs can derive from many more models with much
    more leeway for oddities to delight the eye.\"\r\n\r\n?!?!  The nicest way I can
    respond to this is to say it's simplistic.  I'm sorry you imagine the history
    of type design to be so impoverished.\r\n\r\nCiting Burke's use of a serif font
    for a book about Renner ignores the fact that Celeste is by Burke, and that Renner
    never fully realized a serifed book face. "
  created: '2006-11-12 06:26:03'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "Carl, if you know of any new sans serifs intended for editorial use, not
    just display or novelty, that do *not* derive from Syntax, Gill Sans, or Trade
    Gothic, I would be very interested in seeing them. For a while the market was
    flooded with copycat Syntax-derived faces; now the pendulum has swung to Gill-derived.
    I suppose the next phase will be to revisit Trade Gothic, especially plugging
    in oldstyle figures, which now seem to be offered that way only by FF Bau. I would
    love to see any new text-use sans-serif that breaks out of this tight three-model
    box.\r\n\r\nAs for studies on sans vs serif for reading, I remember typesetting,
    in the annual journal of my client the National Center for Learning Disabilities,
    articles that surveyed such studies going back 30 years, so without being a reading
    specialist as they were, I know it's all out there. But the simplest answer is
    given by the marketplace: how many books, or magazines with long articles, are
    set in sans-serifs? Isn't it curious that a biography of its designer was not
    set in Futura?"
  created: '2006-11-12 15:44:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There are many sans fonts that are (sufficiently) original.\r\nTwo that spring
    to mind are Beorcana and Legato.\r\n\r\nI agree that a serif is nominally better
    for long text, but:\r\n\r\n> I know it\u2019s all out there.\r\n\r\nNo, virtually
    all studies have been flawed.\r\n\r\n> the simplest answer is given by the marketplace\r\n\r\nNot
    the simplest, the most simplistic.\r\n\r\n> Isn\u2019t it curious that a biography
    of its designer was not set in Futura?\r\n\r\nNot really. A book isn't typeset
    by humanity (certainly not by humanity's subconscious), it's typeset by a person,
    who necessarily has his personal views on the matter, and not necessarily good
    ones.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-12 15:57:44'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Isn\u2019t it curious that a biography of its designer was not set in
    Futura?</em>\r\n\r\nwhat's worse is the Goudy biography set in Bodoni. Ick!"
  created: '2006-11-12 16:53:01'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "John, \r\n\r\nI can see that you have decided how you will see any typeface
    set before you, so I doubt I can convince you. However.... \r\n\r\nGill and Syntax
    are both part of the same category. There are a lot of other new types that fit
    that category, and a lot that don't. Saying that various types derive from one
    or the other is ignorant of how typefaces are developed. Syntax is partially derived
    from Gill, but also derived from Garamond. Gill was partially derived from other
    faces not in the Humanist sans category. The categories themselves aren't that
    useful, as too many faces lie on the margins. New categories have to be invented
    to house them (as in music).\r\n\r\nHave you not noticed a new category of sans
    proliferating lately? It's not specifically \"derived\" from any of your three.
    It's a new category, and some of the entries are useful for text, some not. Try
    to guess what I mean.\r\n\r\nThen there's the category Frutiger invented with
    his eponymous design. It's related to Gill and Syntax but clearly different. And
    it's derived from a lot more than a single previous typeface. \r\n\r\nOh that
    reminds me, there are a bunch of new Geometric sans designs (also not one of your
    three) that are being used for editorial matter.... \r\n\r\nJohn I fear you are
    taking things too much at face value. If you swallow whole reading studies done
    by groups that completely ignore all typographic factors in preparing their test
    materials, then you can conveniently believe the answers are all out there. They
    aren't; far from it. Don't confuse the result with the cause. \r\n\r\nI'm not
    curious that a bio of Renner isn't set in Futura; book typographers generally
    know better than that. When the book typographer is also a type designer there's
    more to the picture. \r\n\r\nI have to go back to your earlier comment: do you
    really think, at this juncture, the Sans is going to fade before the Serif?"
  created: '2006-11-12 16:55:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: It's not at all strange to set a book that includes showings of Futura in
    a face other than Futura. In fact, it would be strange to use Futura, because
    that would muddle the distinction between subject (illustrative specimens) and
    text.
  created: '2006-11-12 17:44:27'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>if you know of any new sans serifs intended for editorial use, not just
    display or novelty, that do *not* derive from Syntax, Gill Sans, or Trade Gothic,
    I would be very interested in seeing them</em>\r\n\r\nI think Carl covered this
    pretty well. As I see it, there tends to be more of a shift to explorations of
    the geometric sans as opposed to the humanist sans. I second the influence of
    Frutiger. \r\n\r\nAnd bringing the original thread question back...nope. The serif
    will never die out. That is until mankind discovers how to use mental telepathy,
    and that's when written language as we know it will die. But, we'll probably figure
    out a way to destroy each other long before either of those happens."
  created: '2006-11-12 19:16:01'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "Oh, nothing is in danger of fading--all typography exploded after Postscript
    like a Big Bang, but my designer friends and I inhabit this brave new world as
    type consumers, not type designers, and we have our own perceptions--perceptions
    with a shopping logic. For us, if new face A looks too much like classic B we
    already own and use, we don't buy. For us, typography breaks down into distinct
    looks which may have little to do with historical and technical categories. We
    are not being \"ignorant\" when we prefer our own shopping logic. \r\n\r\nWhen
    you use Syntax, Gill, and Trade Gothic regularly, you become acutely conscious
    of how many NEW issues orbit around each look without breaking free. Of course,
    I'm aware of exceptions because I'm testing them out myself. My current fav is
    Emigre's Cholla, which seems to be working in long texts in a way that FF DIN
    doesn't always. Since I own so many sans, my buying standard has drifted higher.
    For me the standard is Avenir, at once a familiar yet a totally fresh fusion of
    looks, and totally right everywhere from its first use. Let a thousand sans bloom,
    as long as I don't have to sniff them all! "
  created: '2006-11-12 22:49:48'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'There is certainly room in the type market for those with conservative taste.
    But one can''t see what advantages one design offers over others, however similar,
    until one actually uses them both. For instance, Univers and Helvetica seem nearly
    identical to some. If you have Helvetica, is there a point to having Univers?
    I think Univers is better, because it''s more subtly drawn, has more contrast,
    is spaced better and successfully updates the Grotesk genre of types for the 20th
    century. The overall effect is actually quite different, and Univers works at
    more sizes than Helvetica. If I had to choose one family it would be Univers,
    but I wouldn''t know that from a single online GIF file. However that leads me
    back to my point: it''s 2006. I don''t find as many uses for Univers as I used
    to in the 80''s and 90''s. Many designers want to take advantage not only of <a
    href="http://www.fontshop.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=catalog.fontpackage&displayfontid=C.113530.0.0">types
    that do more</a> but also <a href="http://typographi.com/001045.php">types that
    are fresher.</a> '
  created: '2006-11-12 23:47:39'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"why will it/ won\u2019t it?\r\n\r\nThe only pressure on serifs is applied
    by low resolution. Otherwise, I think they are safe."
  created: '2006-11-13 16:18:39'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "\"There is certainly room in the type market for those with conservative
    taste. \"\r\n\r\nWe're not conservative, thank you, just very picky and tough
    to please...your type, our wallets."
  created: '2006-11-13 18:50:56'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "This could turn into another thread about who should pay for new fonts. Instead
    of that, could Tiff look up some of the existing threads on that topic?\r\n\r\nI
    realize, John, that you work for nonprofits, but in general, I think it should
    be the clients' wallets. By making budget allowances for new type, designers can
    help improve the general perception of the value of type, especially if designers
    appreciate good type as you seem to. "
  created: '2006-11-13 19:25:36'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: I don't even know what we're talking about anymore.
  created: '2006-11-14 13:55:36'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: Best flavor of toothpick?
  created: '2006-11-14 15:55:07'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: What did you want me to look for Carl?
  created: '2006-11-14 18:00:17'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Nevermind, Tiff, I was hoping to point John to some of the lengthy threads
    about who should pay for fonts. That may be a dead horse, and one we shouldn't
    kick on this thread anyway. \r\n"
  created: '2006-11-14 18:50:28'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Hard drives get bigger. Computers and connections get faster. Databases get
    more relational. Data trends towards openness and ubiquity. The world's media
    libraries grow vaster yet faster to cull. Nothing is getting forgotten. Sans aren't
    going anywhere. Neither are serifs. No ideas can die, they just move in and out
    of fashion. Until the next major fall of civilization, there will just be more
    and more and more.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">C.</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!ETF</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">.~?</a>"
  created: '2006-11-14 23:33:33'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "From Carl: I think it should be the clients\u2019 wallets. \r\n\r\nIf only!
    Actually, Carl, I'm getting pretty cagey in my old age, especially with book publishers
    who profess to be typophiles: as soon as they say that, I include a new typeface
    from my hit list among their job font choices--fortunately, one can set relevant
    samples on-screen and then copy a screen snap to the client. If they're nuts about
    Galliard (they all own shelves of Bruce Campbell's Galliard-infested Library of
    America titles), I point out that oldstyle figures are now available, in an OpenType
    ITC family package for only $315 that they can also use in their systems. Even
    for nonprofits, that's not even a box of pencils. Nobody's bit yet, but hope springs
    eternal! I've read our threads about who should pay. As Dorothy Parker said: you
    can lead a ho to culture, but you can't make him buy type!"
  created: '2006-11-17 07:42:33'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Serif glyphs are more recognizable than sans glyphs (especially geometric
    sans) because they provide the viewer/reader with more visual clues. Eg d, b and
    p are examples of that. \r\n\r\nDon't forget that the human brain is programmed
    to recognize shapes in any orientation. That's what's evolution is for\u2026 recognizing
    a dangerous snake whether it's hanging from a branch or slithering on the ground
    does make a difference ; ). \r\n\r\nIMO this whole existing (western?) tradition
    of using (lowercase!) sans for teaching kids to read is totally of the mark. It
    has even been suggested that starting with all caps would improve learning to
    read, because the glyphs are far more recognizabele than lc ones.\r\n\r\nAnother
    important feature is that serifs help the eye to follow the stream of letterforms.
    Some sans typefaces emulate this by a specific orientation of the contrast, eg
    FF Balance. \r\n\r\nAnd I think that the point made before, that serifs help to
    define the shape between glyphs, is really important too. And also one that hasn't
    been researched enough\u2026"
  created: '2006-11-17 09:55:20'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "Bloody hell mondo there you go again.\r\n\r\nMuzz"
  created: '2006-11-17 10:19:26'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "And miss giggles I really think you get these threads cracking by pretending
    to be silly but you are actually clever.\r\n\r\nMuzz"
  created: '2006-11-17 10:20:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> That\u2019s what\u2019s evolution is for\u2026\r\n\r\nWell said.\r\n\r\nBut:\r\n1)
    The reason to teach lc first/primarily is simple: it's 95% of text.\r\n2) We don't
    \"follow\" letterforms, serifs or no.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-17 14:19:18'
- author:
    name: Geo Ben
    picture: 111945
  body: ">>It wouldn\u2019t be shocking to discover they\u2019re the most readable
    of what\u2019s already been designed. \r\n\r\n'twould be a lot more shocking to
    discover they're the most readable of what hasn't yet been designed.\r\n\r\ngeo."
  created: '2006-11-17 16:32:48'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'You can read faster with serifs too cuz they''re like little feet to carry
    your eyes along!! Its a fact! Sans doesn''t have the feet. '
  created: '2006-11-17 18:26:26'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Hence \"running text\". :)\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2006-11-17 18:31:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Silly, it's train tracks! Everybody knows that you're not reading\r\nimmersively
    unless you hear CHOOOOOO-CHOOOOOO in your\r\nhead at each linebreak.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-17 20:12:29'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Huh. That must be why it''s so hard to remember what I read with serif fonts.
    You can''t slow down between stations. '
  created: '2006-11-17 21:48:24'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Serifs die when <cite>Sus Domestica</cite> take to the air.\r\n\r\n><cite>For
    instance, Univers and Helvetica seem nearly identical to some. If you have Helvetica,
    is there a point to having Univers? I think Univers is better, because it\u2019s
    more subtly drawn, has more contrast, is spaced better and successfully updates
    the Grotesk genre of types for the 20th century. The overall effect is actually
    quite different, and Univers works at more sizes than Helvetica.</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks!
    I was actually going to post this question. Plus, the condensed versions of Univers
    are awesome."
  created: '2006-11-18 03:05:11'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "\"Sans Serif\" won't die as long as it remains petting the never-changing
    eye.\r\nLet a thousand Sans and <a href=\"http://www.crAUSwords.com/flowers/WFlowers.htm\">Flowers</a>
    bloom, I will sniff them all!"
  created: '2006-11-18 07:46:07'
date: '2006-11-11 14:53:46'
title: will the serif ever die out in the future?

---
