---
author:
  name: missgiggles
  picture: 111889
body: what evidence is there? has it been researched before?
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Evidence: as usual in matters typographic, nothing good. So we're left with
    thought, and it seems to indicate that serifs help because they provide more info,
    including directional info (think of the tops of \"b\" and \"d\" for example).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-11 15:15:17'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: "You might get something from http://www.readregular.com/english/intro.html
    .\r\nAlso, the HHRC might be able to help too. http://www.hhrc.rca.ac.uk/programmes/ra/2003/natascha.html"
  created: '2006-11-11 17:03:12'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "You might, but then... The thing to remember about dyslexia is it can't be
    \"solved\" by making a new typeface or by using a specific typeface in one place.
    I certainly have sympathy for people with extreme dyslexia, but you can't re-make
    the world, with all its magazines, fine print, illuminated signs, motion graphics,
    airport and city navigations, in a way that resolves the difficulty dyslexics
    have in reading. \r\n\r\nWhich is more useful to a dyslexic: a typeface used in
    2 places, or new methods for reading they can apply everywhere? "
  created: '2006-11-11 17:22:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you can\u2019t re-make the world, with all its magazines\r\n\r\nWhat about
    e-Ink?  :-)\r\n\r\n> new methods for reading they can apply everywhere?\r\n\r\n?\r\nWhat
    do you have in mind?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-11 17:35:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's probably a mistake to draw a line between them and us.\r\nAll one can
    say is that there are varying kinds of reading ability, and varying degrees.\r\n\r\nGo
    to your local library or bookstore and look in the large print section, and see
    what kinds of typefaces are being used. This shows what people who have some difficulty
    reading prefer. Of course, being short-sighted and being dyslexic are different,
    but it can be argued that large print helps both -- in particular because large
    print is also used for another group of people who don't read fluently: children
    learning.\r\n\r\nFor young reader books, the practice changed from serif to sans
    serif during the second half of the 20th century. Has this had any effect on overall
    literacy? Probably not.\r\n\r\nAt the RNIB website, they don't have a preference
    between sans or serif. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: aluminum
      picture: 110335
    body: "\"Go to your local library or bookstore and look in the large print section,
      and see what kinds of typefaces are being used. This shows what people who have
      some difficulty reading prefer.\"\r\n\r\nI know it's been said, but I think
      it's worth repeating...what is in widespread use is simply indicative of what's
      in widespread use...not necessarily what people PREFER. We live in a society
      where user preferences are not necessarily a sign of market penetration.\r\n\r\nI
      think the only viable text-research I've heard was the statement 'we read best
      what we read most' implying that as humans, we're comfortable with what we're
      most familiar with. That rings true for pretty much anything...not just type
      design.\r\n\r\nOf course, the problem is that everyone is different, so it somewhat
      prevents us from making viable broad generalizations."
    created: '2006-11-13 21:32:12'
  created: '2006-11-11 17:44:31'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: 'For years I designed for the National Center for Learning Disabilities, and
    their counsel was: serif, large point size, and draw a vertical line between medium-wide
    columns (2-col format on 8.5x11" pages). Challenged eyes don''t like sans for
    long any more than other eyes.'
  created: '2006-11-11 18:09:19'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: opps
  created: '2006-11-11 20:02:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> It\u2019s probably a mistake to draw a line between them and us.\r\n\r\nIn
    a way yes, but it's also probably a mistake to lump different groups together!
    The problems that dyslexics have are pretty specific, so it's different than people
    who simply have blurry vision, or children who have yet to move from deliberative
    to immersive reading.\r\n\r\n> Has this had any effect on overall literacy?\r\n\r\nEverything
    has an effect, all of the time, on everybody.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-11 21:17:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I was refering to the rate of literacy.\r\nIn other words, people who learned
    with sans aren't any less or more literate than those who learned with serif --
    if indeed there were any way to make a measurable connection between sans/serif
    and the literacy rate."
  created: '2006-11-11 21:32:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just because something hasn't been counted, or even if it can't be counted,
    doesn't mean it doesn't count. There's no reason to believe that \"people who
    learned with sans aren\u2019t any less or more literate than those who learned
    with serif\", and there is in fact reason to believe the opposite. We can argue
    about which is better, sans or serif, but they could never be equally good/bad
    at everything, or really anything.\r\n\r\nEverything Matters\u2122\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-11 21:45:08'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'Keep in mind that dyslexia is a term that encompasses multiple learning/reading
    disorders, so what improves readability for one dyslexic individual may be of
    no use, or even baneful, to another. '
  created: '2006-11-12 04:21:12'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"What do you have in mind?\"\r\n\r\nI'm completely ignorant on the topic,
    but I imagine someone is focusing on aiding dyslexics to improve their reading
    performance. If nobody is studying this, yet there are untrained students developing
    special typefaces for dyslexics, then something's not working. \r\n\r\n\"This
    shows what people who have some difficulty reading prefer.\"\r\n\r\nWe've been
    over this already. This shows what designers or publishers <strong>think</strong>
    children or the elderly prefer. The jury's still out on what they actually prefer.
    And their stated preference isn't the same as what they read most easily."
  created: '2006-11-12 06:34:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> something\u2019s not working.\r\n\r\nNo sh*t sherlock.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-12 07:05:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The jury\u2019s still out on what they actually prefer.</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    let me rephrase \"readers' preference\": The type in large-print books shows what
    works in the marketplace, as with any publishing genre. I would imagine that publishers
    conduct focus groups from time to time, try out a sans serif, get negative feedback,
    and stick with the old workhorses."
  created: '2006-11-12 08:01:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '[Double post]'
  created: '2006-11-12 08:10:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>We can argue about which is better, sans or serif, but they could never
    be equally good/bad at everything, or really anything.</em>\r\n\r\nI would say
    that in this case, as it's impossible to measure, the difference is meaningless.\r\nAnd
    if it were possible to measure, I would guess that the differenece would be statistically
    negligible.\r\n\r\nBut I'm strangely attracted to your chaos-theory existentialism,
    Mr Everything Matters."
  created: '2006-11-12 08:10:17'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: ">\t<cite>I\u2019m completely ignorant on the topic.</cite>\r\n\r\n'nuff said."
  created: '2006-11-12 08:10:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> .\r\n\r\nThink -> Type\r\n\r\n> as it\u2019s impossible to measure, the
    difference is meaningless.\r\n\r\nNo, no, it wouldn't be impossible to measure
    because the difference is too small, but because not everything can be measured,
    or at least not everything will be.\r\n\r\nIt's ironic how apparently empiricism
    is good or bad depending on how well it guards the shores of Shinnistan.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-12 14:42:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Note on large print books. These were developed to help adults with vision
    problems. Some people with limited vision can't get the visual information except
    from large print. This is a different matter from dyslexia, which is a matter
    of how visual information is processed. \r\n\r\n>shores of Shinnistan\r\n\r\n--located
    in a galaxy far, far away from Planethrant :)"
  created: '2006-11-12 15:09:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think it's in another dimension.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-12 15:16:54'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"\u2018nuff said.\"\r\n\r\nMr./Mrs./Ms. T. Bones, definitely not. I was
    hoping someone here might chime in with information about what is being done to
    help dyslexics on the behavioral/practical side. Got anything? "
  created: '2006-11-12 20:34:34'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: "Mr. Carl Crossgrove, \r\nBehavioural? In what context?\r\nFor what it's worth,
    I posted links to those who are/were researching the topic in question. If your're
    really desperate for information perhaps you could email them and find out more
    about how they are sourcing and verifying their research. "
  created: '2006-11-12 20:45:36'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'The Read Regular material is what I''m talking about. I''m too busy to look
    up dyslexia psychology today but I''m imagining, because Typophile is global,
    that someone would be curious enough to find out what else <strong>besides this
    project</strong> people are doing. By behavioral I mean: what is being done to
    assist retrain, adapt or otherwise interactively aid dyslexics in reading what''s
    all around them. It seems to me that would be more helpful to them, than trying
    to have everything in the visual environment translated into Read Regular. That
    wouldn''t help anyway. The a looks like an o, negating the entire thesis of the
    project. '
  created: '2006-11-12 21:11:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>it wouldn\u2019t be impossible to measure because the difference is too
    small, but because not everything can be measured, or at least not everything
    will be.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's what I said: It's impossible to measure whether learning
    to read with serif faces in the first half of the 20th century, or learning to
    read with sans serifs in the second half, would have had made any difference to
    the rate of literacy. "
  created: '2006-11-12 21:36:42'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: "I'm unsure whether or not Ms. Frensch's work is supported by hard evidence.
    I'm equally unsure if any fellow typophiles might know the answers to what is
    a very grey area. Particularly as the 'experts' are seemingly unable to agree
    upon, \"what it [dyslexia] is or how to treat it.\"\r\n\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/4205932.stm\r\n\r\nNot
    that I see the BBC as providers of the absolute truth!"
  created: '2006-11-12 21:44:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">if any fellow typophiles might know the answers to what is a very grey area\r\n\r\nThis
    issue has come up regularly on Typophile. None of the claims to fonts that are
    better for those with reading difficulties have stood up to even mild scrutiny. "
  created: '2006-11-12 21:52:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "If only English were more like <a href=\"http://www.4therapy.com/consumer/conditions/article/6487/500/Dyslexia+Poses+Bigger+Challenge+For+English+Speakers\">Italian.</a>\r\n\r\nThe
    assumption seems to be that English spelling and grammar is too tricky, but alphabetic
    distribution in Italian might also be a factor.\r\n\r\nLuc de Groot has figured
    out the most common character pairs for different languages. It would be interesting
    to compare English and Italian in that light, with regard to reading difficulty.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-12 22:09:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> That\u2019s what I said\r\n\r\nNo it's not - and you know it.\r\n\r\n>
    Luc de Groot has figured out the most common\r\n> character pairs for different
    languages.\r\n\r\nThat's a mischaracterization of the situation.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-13 00:02:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>No it\u2019s not - and you know it.</em>\r\n\r\nI thought we were discussing
    the rate of literacy, i.e. what percentage of the population is considered literate.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\n<em>That\u2019s
    a mischaracterization of the situation</em>\r\n\r\nWell, that's what he demonstrated
    in a talk in Montreal last month that I attended, so perhpas he was mischaracterizing
    himself? (As usual, you seem to know more about people than they do themselves,
    even when you weren't even there.)\r\n\r\nLuc has been looking into removing automatically
    generated kern pairs from font tables, where the characters don't appear in the
    same language, and has analyzed the frequency of character combinations in different
    languages, with software that trolls texts -- he takes a variety from newspapers,
    magazines and books -- to record that information. This is a subject which you,
    he, and I discussed (if my memory serves me) at the Boston AtypI conference many
    years ago, and he has followed through."
  created: '2006-11-13 02:37:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I thought we were discussing the rate of literacy\r\n\r\nI don't believe
    you.\r\n\r\n> perhpas he was mischaracterizing himself?\r\n\r\nPossibly, but my
    bets are on the skew coming from your end - sorry.\r\n\r\nAnd yes, it was in Boston
    (in 1999). Live and learn I guess.\r\n\r\nAnyway, here's something from my end:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/5097
    _\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/5106 _\r\nNot remotely as significant as Luc[as]'s
    efforts, but still better than navel-gazing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-13 03:34:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t believe you.</em>\r\n\r\nHrant, all you have to do is read
    the thread again.\r\nI said \"I was refering to the rate of literacy. In other
    words ,,,\"\r\nYou then quoted my \"other words\" and debated them, \"No, no,\"\r\nWhy
    do I have to engage in this nit-picking just to answer your accusations that I
    am lying and deceiving?\r\n\r\n<em>Possibly, but my bets are on the skew coming
    from your end - sorry.</em>\r\n\r\nNot exactly an apology.\r\nHow on Earth could
    \"Luc de Groot has figured out the most common character pairs for different languages\"
    be considered skewing? What in the Hrantiverse did you think he was doing?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-13 04:01:19'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Wow: 2 parallel threads. I had thought we were discussing reading abilities
    of dyslexics. \r\n\r\n\"This is a different matter from dyslexia\":  Thank you
    William, this is an important point ignored in the Read Regular project. Issues
    such as \"infant\" characters, mirroring, and a host of hopeful hyperbole are
    conflated in the thesis to support the results, which I find simply fail to satisfy
    basic criteria for type for even general readers. Since the [also presumed] advantage
    of infant characters is based on a developmental stage in learning to read, and
    dyslexics might just as easily not be at that developmental stage, it's of questionable
    use there. From the website:\r\n\r\n\"The characters have been stripped down from
    all unnecessary details \u2013such as a two storey a and a two eyed g.\"\r\n\r\nBut
    what about those helpful feet on the bottom that carry the eye along like a wheelbarrow?
    \ ; )"
  created: '2006-11-13 04:02:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> all you have to do is read the thread again.\r\n\r\nI was thinking the
    same thing about you! But re-reading stuff\r\nsomebody wrote still won't reveal
    what's really in his head.\r\n\r\n> Why do I have to engage in this nit-picking\r\n\r\nI
    think I know why.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-13 04:17:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Well, I guess if you want to stay at the top of the posting board it's easier
    to engage phantoms than deal with what people actually say.
  created: '2006-11-13 06:25:27'
- author:
    name: pica pusher
    picture: 111287
  body: I'm a bit late to this party, but I just wanted to interject that I have a
    friend who is a designer and dyslexic, and according to him he reads almost entirely
    by wordshapes - he has a really difficult time reading all-caps, for instance.
    To me, this would seem to support the idea that serifs would be better, since
    they theoretically assist in linking letterforms into wordshapes.
  created: '2006-11-13 20:00:05'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "You could argue the opposite as well, thanks to the absence of real data....
    And in fact, lots of people do. Now, you could actually get some useful data by
    testing your friend to see if he has a preference. Preparing your test materials
    is the crucial part. I have suggestions, if you're interested.\r\n\r\nI think
    everyone has more difficulty reading all caps. We all use word shapes to some
    degree. \r\n\r\nI hope your designer/dyslexic friend has someone to help with
    proofreading?  ;)"
  created: '2006-11-13 20:31:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">he has a really difficult time reading all-caps\r\n\r\nNow I'm worried that
    maybe I'm dyslexic?  "
  created: '2006-11-13 21:10:36'
- author:
    name: pica pusher
    picture: 111287
  body: "I'd say that a graphic designer would make a poor candidate for such a test,
    actually, as he would be much more aware of the font than a layman.\r\n\r\nThere
    certainly is an absence of real data; all I know of is anecdotal evidence. It
    should be noted, too, that just because this one guy picks up on wordshapes doesn't
    mean that's how all dyslexic people operate.\r\n\r\nAs an aside, I've noticed
    that my dyslexic friends seem to be better at three-dimensional spatial tasks
    than two-dimensional. Again, purely anecdotal. Might the two ideas be interrelated
    though?"
  created: '2006-11-13 21:21:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "> \"large print section ... shows what people who have some difficulty reading
    prefer.\"\r\n\r\n>I know it\u2019s been said, but I think it\u2019s worth repeating\r\n\r\nI
    don't, because it's not correct. As I noted above, large print editions are for
    people who have difficulty seeing, not difficulty reading. Vision impairment and
    dyslexia are two different things. \r\n\r\nIs it worth repeating again?   :) "
  children:
  - author:
      name: aluminum
      picture: 110335
    body: ">>I know it\u2019s been said, but I think it\u2019s worth repeating\r\n\r\n>I
      don\u2019t, because it\u2019s not correct. \r\n\r\nThat's not the part I was
      repeating. I understand your point that large type is not in any way a fix for
      dyslexia.\r\n\r\nThe point I was repeating was the common assumption we often
      make that market share somehow is an indicator of end-user preferences.\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2006-11-14 18:43:55'
  created: '2006-11-13 21:48:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I think the only viable text-research I\u2019ve heard\r\n> was the statement
    \u2018we read best what we read most\u2019\r\n\r\nYou know, we can talk about
    that (like I could explain how\r\nit's basically misleading) but let's not call
    some self-serving\r\nrabble-rousing artsy mantra \"research\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-13 22:00:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Is it worth repeating again? :)</em>\r\n\r\nWell, if you're going to
    get all repetitious, may I draw your attention to a comment I made at the top
    of this thread:\r\n\r\n\"being short-sighted and being dyslexic are different,
    but it can be argued that large print helps both \u2014 in particular because
    large print is also used for another group of people who don\u2019t read fluently:
    children learning.\"\r\n\r\nAnd also:\r\n\r\n\"there are varying kinds of reading
    ability, and varying degrees.\"\r\n\r\nIf you can read fluently, you can read
    \"normal\" or small text (say, 8 to 12 pt). If you can't, <em>for whatever reason,</em>
    then you need something larger. "
  created: '2006-11-13 22:35:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">it can be argued that large print helps both\r\n\r\nYeah, you \"can argue\"
    anything whatsover. If there is any good evidence, please give us the reference
    and after confirming that it looks solid it I will gladly withdraw my comment.
    \r\n\r\nedit: I'm wrong. You're right, Nick. Here's an article with solid research:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.pubmedcentral.nih.gov/articlerender.fcgi?artid=1427019\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-13 22:53:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Looking on the internet I also found this interesting article reporting on
    research on the link between rhythm and reading ability:\r\n\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/education/2144790.stm\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-13 23:12:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I\u2019m wrong. You\u2019re right, Nick.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks for the empirical
    corroboration, William. However, I can't claim any credit for divining that, as
    my hypothesis was based on assumptions about the marketplace. I just found it
    inconceivable that in a competitive segment of the publishing industry, that publishers
    would not conduct focus groups, or be aware of the reading issues, or not try
    different type treatments, in an attempt to sell more product. And so the standard
    that has become established -- as with news text -- may be considered to represent
    the kind of product that readers prefer, and is not just a style foisted on them
    by a monolithic industry. In that sense, it's similar to newspaper text type,
    extremely conservative in its adherence to certain sizes and styles, and woebetide
    any typographer who deviates too greatly from the norm.\r\n\r\nA scenario I'm
    familiar with is where a newspaper is redesigned and a focus group (or the readers
    in the letters page) say a particular type spec is too small. Of course, the type
    is not smaller, the readers just don't like it, or aren't prepared to make the
    adjustment to become familiar with it.\r\n\r\nOne interesting aspect of large
    print is book size: it seems that readers like a normal-sized book (although it
    will, of course, be thicker). I suspect this is for social and cultural reasons,
    or maybe even the size in their hands for ease of page turning. In the study you
    cite, participants were kept at a distance of 40 cm from the text -- so I wonder,
    what if they had used smaller text, but a closer distance?! In other words, the
    typographic factors -- numner of words per line and page -- may be quite significant."
  created: '2006-11-14 03:31:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If you can\u2019t, for whatever reason, then you need something larger.\r\n\r\nFalse.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-14 05:58:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "True.\r\n\r\nnws"
  created: '2006-11-14 07:28:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "As well as a deep connection of reading and rhythm, the research seems to
    indicate that tactile experience, such as writing and molding letters out of clay
    helps dyslexics to read. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.dyslexia-parent.com/mag30.html\r\n\r\nhere
    is a method used by teachers:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dyslexia-parent.com/VAKT.html\r\n\r\nHrant,
    this research really casts doubt on your claims that rhythm and writing have nothing
    to do with good type design.  "
  created: '2006-11-14 13:40:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Only if you were already predisposed to that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-14 15:50:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">if you were already predisposed to that\r\n\r\nFrom the wikipedia:\r\n\r\n\"A
    (fallacious) ad hominem argument has the basic form:\r\n\r\n   1. A makes claim
    X.\r\n   2. There is something objectionable about A.\r\n   3. Therefore claim
    X is false.\r\n\r\n\"The first statement is called a 'factual claim' and is the
    pivot point of much debate. The last statement is referred to as an 'inferential
    claim' and represents the reasoning process. There are two types of inferential
    claim, explicit and implicit.\r\n\r\n\"Ad hominem is one of the best-known of
    the logical fallacies usually enumerated in introductory logic and critical thinking
    textbooks. Both the fallacy itself, and accusations of having committed it, are
    often brandished in actual discourse (see also Argument from fallacy). As a technique
    of rhetoric, it is powerful and used often, despite its inherent incorrectness.\r\n\r\n\"In
    contrast, an argument that instead relies (fallaciously) on the positive aspects
    of the person arguing the case is known as appeal to authority.\"\r\n\r\nAnd also
    your personal accusation is untrue. As you can see from this very thread, I change
    my mind in response to new evidence. And, as you can see here, I do seek out evidence
    that might contradict my views--as my teacher Popper urged.\r\n\r\nIt's called
    being open minded. "
  created: '2006-11-14 16:10:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I wasn't pretending to be engaging in Hermetic Logical Discourse (as if anything
    in life is ever Consistent). It's not that I'm against that - but I am against
    talking to walls. Some people have one solid wall, others can have a number of
    softer walls protecting the inner solid one. The most one can hope to do is overcome
    somebody's outer walls; because we are only truly open to influence in early childhood;
    after that it's too late.\r\n\r\n> It\u2019s called being open minded.\r\n\r\nAnd
    grasping why that story has nothing to do with\r\nimmersive reading is called
    actually knowing the topic.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-14 17:11:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Darrel, I shouldn't have repeated my point about large type not being a fix
    for dyslexia because I was wrong, as found out above--it apparently is helpful.
    I do agree with you about the imperfection of the market, in spite of Nick's being
    right about this one. (Based on evidence in other fields.)\r\n\r\n>that story
    has nothing to do with\r\nimmersive reading\r\n\r\nHow do you know? \r\n\r\nTo
    me, the state of knowledge of the mechanics of the reading process is so sketchy
    that everything is more by way of hints than a comprehensive understanding--including
    such issues as rhythm and influence of kinesthetic factors. This research is hints
    that they are important. How they affect learning to read and expert readers I
    don't know, but I don't see why they would affect both. \r\n\r\n>after that it\u2019s
    too late.\r\n\r\nSpeak for youself, not others. "
  created: '2006-11-14 18:59:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> How do you know?\r\n\r\nI don't know, I think.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-14 19:04:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the common assumption we often make that market share somehow is an indicator
    of end-user preferences.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, that seems axiomatic enough (although
    historical determinists may disagree).\r\nI would assume you exercise your free
    will in making purchasing decisions?\r\nAn act of choice is, ipso facto, a demonstration
    of preference!\r\n\r\nOf course, the choice may be limited (by oligopoly for instance)
    or skewed (e.g. by advertising, or industry standards). But I don't think that's
    the case with the market for easy-to-read books and large, serifed typefaces.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-14 19:46:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">axiomatic\r\n\r\nWhat I was thinking about as a counter example is the music
    industry. I saw a bumper sticker: \"You're not getting older, the music really
    sucks\".\r\n\r\nThe music industry has been taken over by lawyers with little
    musical taste, and promote those whom they imagine to be good. This doesn't get
    the best people promoted, in my view, or the best music to the public. \r\n\r\nThe
    point is that the internal forces of the music industry don't necessarily result
    in the external market for music working efficiently. 'Market imperfections' are
    a subject of study in Economics. One of the factors is the concentration of ownership,
    which distorts the market. Another is lack of information. And judging by the
    bogus claims to fonts good for dyslexia, there is a communication problem. "
  created: '2006-11-14 19:57:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I would assume you exercise your free will in making purchasing decisions?\r\n\r\nSignificantly
    however one place you don't exercise your free will* is in immersive reading.
    You consistently ignore that, and as long as you do we'll get nowhere.\r\n\r\n*
    As if brainwashing doesn't exist, btw.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-14 20:03:30'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"But I don\u2019t think that\u2019s the case with the market for easy-to-read
    books and large, serifed typefaces.\"\r\n\r\nWhy would that market be any different
    than any other?"
  created: '2006-11-14 20:38:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Large print books in fact have a very unusual market history. My friend and
    neighbor was a librarian for the handicaped, and told me the story. A wealthy
    English philanthropist started funding large print books for those with limited
    vision. He did this on a pretty massive scale, I believe, and it succeeded in
    getting into libraries all over. Obviously the people responded by using the large
    print books, but the market, I believe is still mainly libraries. And it may well
    be that it is still a philanthropic enterprise, not profit driven, and so not
    market at all in the traditional sense.  \r\n\r\nIt seems that only recently have
    people found that large print can help in teaching those with dyslexia. So I suppose
    that market is growing.  "
  created: '2006-11-14 20:47:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>One of the factors is the concentration of ownership, which distorts
    the market. Another is lack of information.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's what I said Bill,
    oligopoly and ad skew. Of course the market is imperfect, and always has been,
    but it's the best thing available for choice and preference, the notion of which
    probably wouldn't exist without it, at least not to such an extent. As for the
    bogus claims to fonts good for dyslexia, I offer the market, imperfect though
    it may be, as a corrective to misinformation. If you look at the promotion of
    large print books, they don't hype the fonts on pro-dyslexic claims. They don't
    hype the fonts, period. It will be intereting to see what happens if and when
    the publishers get a little more of the readability BS in their arsenal, whether
    people will buy books set in some of the dubious pro-dyslexia fonts. I expect
    they will be foisted on children first.\r\n\r\n<em>immersive reading</em>\r\n\r\nAs
    long as you continue to consistently promote the fallacy of immersive reading,
    we'll get nowhere. ALL reading is immersive. Readability is just fast legibility.
    Readability is just another term for good typography.\r\n\r\n<em>As if brainwashing
    doesn\u2019t exist, btw</em>\r\n\r\nBut only for other people, present company
    excluded :-)"
  created: '2006-11-14 20:53:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Why would that market be any different than any other?</em>\r\n\r\nEvery
    market is different with regards to the factors of corporate concentration (oligopoly)
    and ad skew. And also the degree of product testing. "
  created: '2006-11-14 21:05:15'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "trust a pretty face:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dyslexic.com/fonts\r\n\r\nhttp://www.bdadyslexia.org.uk/extra352.html"
  created: '2006-11-14 21:16:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it\u2019s the best thing available for choice and preference\r\n\r\nNo,
    thought is.\r\n\r\n> ... the fallacy of immersive reading ...\r\n\r\nGreat. Just
    so people know where you stand, so they -like me- can hopefully put your opinions
    about reading in the context of this basic ignorance. And this is of course why
    you couldn't design a functional Eunoia-Text; because the confusion between display
    and text fonts is part of this ignorance. The -drastic, pragmatic- mods necessary
    to make a text version from the display were beyond your understanding.\r\n\r\nSo
    Eben, Peter, everybody: please pay attention to where given\r\nopinions are coming
    from, not just where they pretend to be headed.\r\n\r\n> But only for other people,
    present company excluded :-)\r\n\r\n(Always with the fake smile[ys].)\r\nNo, everybody
    is brainwashed to some extent, just some of us more, and  most importantly: in
    different directions. These directions are what need to be considered in weighing
    the opinions of people about a topic, in filtering their advice, sometimes in
    fact leaving only a faint mist, not any usable water.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-14 21:17:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '{Duplicate}'
  created: '2006-11-14 21:17:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "On the distortion, I see you acknowledge some of the factors, but you seemed
    to discount the huge impact they might have. \r\n\r\nAs I noted, it seems that
    the large print movement doesn't reflect market forces so much as philanthropy
    and demands, but not monetized demands. So other forces are critical here other
    than the market economy. "
  created: '2006-11-14 21:20:27'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: 'CS strikes again.. '
  created: '2006-11-14 21:23:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Personally, I think your Comic Sans is one of the more readable screen fonts.
    And I can see that its off-the-vertical strokes might even help dyslexics--though
    I think the 'a' might give them problems, as noted. \r\n\r\nBut as a general matter,
    all of these sites recommend a series of fonts based on no research, i.e. systematic
    checking, as to whether their uninformed and unprofessional opinions actually
    have any basis. (Arial--no way.)\r\n\r\nFor example, here is a debunking of the
    'research' on Tiresias:\r\n\r\nhttp://screenfont.ca/fonts/today/Tiresias/\r\n\r\nSome
    good research on this issue would be great. But it doesn't seem to have been done. "
  created: '2006-11-14 21:41:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, what do you know about Joe Clark?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-14 21:43:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: I don't know much about Joe Clark, but the evidence he cites on Tiresias'
    lack of research is cogent, and when I looked into this earlier, I didn't find
    any response, so I'm taking it as valid argument. Shouldn't I?
  created: '2006-11-14 21:45:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Discard no insight. But always have handy a battery\r\nof pinches of salt.
    And sometimes large bags of it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-14 21:50:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Just so people know where you stand</em>\r\n\r\n...you'll let them know
    that I'm an ignorant liar."
  created: '2006-11-14 22:19:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the large print movement doesn\u2019t reflect market forces</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    I don't have any friends in libraries to fill me in.\r\nI had a superficial look
    around online and found a variety of publishers, with links to Amazon, so I'm
    assuming a competitive retail market, as well as the institutional one you mention,
    which may well be the mainstay.\r\n\r\nBest sellers such as Potter and Da Vinci
    Code are part of the large print market. \r\n\r\nThe large-print market breaks
    down into:\r\n\r\nPublic Libraries\r\nEducators and School Libraries\r\nConsumers
    (eg via Amazon)\r\nBookstores\r\n\r\nAlthough I don't know the percentage split."
  created: '2006-11-14 22:40:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">a competitive retail market\r\n\r\nGoody. I think I know just the font for
    them, in a couple of months :)"
  created: '2006-11-14 23:06:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \u2026you\u2019ll let them know that I\u2019m an ignorant liar.\r\n\r\nOne
    shot of irrelevant, three shots of false.\r\n\r\nhhp"
  created: '2006-11-15 00:27:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant, your mention of Eunoia Text prompted me to revisit this thread:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/13926\r\n\r\nMade
    me realize how much I miss John Hudson's presence here.\r\nI wonder why he doesn't
    post any more."
  created: '2006-11-15 04:46:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Revisit to your heart's content.\r\n\r\n> Made me realize how much I miss
    John Hudson\u2019s presence here.\r\n\r\nI would miss people from my tight demographic
    too, except none of\r\nthem have ever been here to begin with (except Levon's
    short stint).\r\n\r\n> I wonder why he doesn\u2019t post any more.\r\n\r\nNo need
    to wonder, just ask him. Except wondering certainly works\r\nbetter for you, since
    his answer wouldn't be the one you'd like.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-15 05:15:02'
- author:
    name: gfmueden
  body: "I Googled \"legibility readability research\" and it took me to university
    psychology departments that deal with it as a part of cognition.  I think they
    might have had our question put to them, but I don't know anybody in the field
    to ask.  Perhaps the American Printinghouse for the Blind would know.  They have
    produced their own font, I think they call it APHont.\r\n===gm==="
  created: '2006-11-15 06:54:00'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I think the answer to missgigles' question 'which is easily read' has to
    be neither. Neither seriffed type nor sanserif type is easily read by dyslexic
    persons.\r\n\r\nIt is tempting to take results such as those about type-size cited
    in the O'Brien, Mansfield, Legge paper linked by Bill, and simply make them parts
    of a piece-meal (and blindly scientistic) typographic response to dyslexia. I
    think this approach would be unfortunate.\r\n\r\nTo make progress, though, I think
    typophiles might benefit from critical engaement of discussions of reading difficulties
    <em>at the level the OM&L paper does</em>. \r\n\r\nThe OM&L paper explores the
    print size effect in terms of magnocellullar deficits and their impact, and then
    cites a <em>position coding deficit</em> as a possible cause for the size effect,
    bringing into the discussion, spatial frequency and lateral interference issues
    along the way. The paper is the most thorough exploration of these issues that
    I've seen to date.\r\n\r\nI wasn't aware of the OM&L paper until I noticed William's
    link to it., but I had been exploring the possibility that the magnocellullar
    deficit which is typical of some dyslexics <em>impacts the perceptual learning
    necessary</em> for adult-level skilled reading to emerge. I've previously talked
    about this on typophile in terms of 'unitization' or in terms of the formation
    of an alternative to 'slot-processing' by letter identities, or in terms of adult
    level processing being 'bouma-based'. By contrast, what I've described as slot-processing
    relies on the 'what / where' letter identity + position coding referenced by OM&L
    as the crucial factor. \r\n\r\nIn my 'typographical-craft-knowledge derived' scheme,
    perceptual learning puts in place a coding of the whole pattern of blacks and
    whites inside the bounded map of the word at a level more primitive than that
    of whole letters. So for me the magnocellullar deficit impacts the consolidation
    of a supercessionary perceptual processing routine reliant on these whole-word
    maps of sub-letter features. In the abscence of this perceptual processing skill,
    the reader with a magnocellullar deficit is thus forced to <em>rely</em> on a
    more error prone and slower slot-processing, with it's letter-identity + position
    encoding, and as OM&L suggest, this might indeed be more managable or less susceptible
    to lateral interference effects at larger sizes.\r\n\r\nThis might help us realize
    that, while larger print sizes might accommodate a perceptual processing deficit,
    they don't solve the underlying problem."
  created: '2006-11-15 14:53:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Peter, I think the information you cite in the paper increases the chance
    that a crucial test I suggested earlier would actually be telling. \r\n\r\nI had
    suggested that in learning to read fluently there might be a transition from slot
    processing to whole word (or at least part word) pattern recognition. And this
    transition might be blocked in some dyslexics. So the test I suggested is to increase
    letter space to the point of word break-down, and then gradually tighten it. The
    idea is that for the beginning reader and dyslexic, the tighter letter space would
    be neutral or as you suggest actually detrimental. But for the expert reader the
    normally tight spacing would increase reading speed. \r\n\r\nPerhaps one of the
    authors of the dyslexia paper might be interested in doing this?"
  created: '2006-11-15 15:28:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> there might be a transition from slot processing to whole word\r\n\r\nThis
    is already known to be the case. The typical age being 10.\r\n\r\n> this transition
    might be blocked in some dyslexics.\r\n\r\nI think this is a safe assumption,
    but a primitive one.\r\nThe trick is figuring out why.\r\n\r\n> the test I suggested
    is to increase letter space ...\r\n\r\nSuch tests were suggested to Kevin in Thessaloniki
    for the purposes of testing general readability. But, for the nth time, the results
    will be irrelevant as long as lab conditions do not foster true immersion.\r\n\r\nOnce
    you have tests good enough to establish that \"binding\" letterspacing does have
    an effect on \"normal\" adult readers, you can then show that it has no/reduced
    effect on dyslexics. But you're still stuck with the Why.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-15 15:43:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">he results will be irrelevant as long as lab conditions do not foster true
    immersion.\r\n\r\n1. What operationally is 'true immerison'?\r\n\r\n2. Why would
    the results be irrelevant without it?\r\n\r\n>stuck with the Why\r\n\r\nThe way
    science works is that each new step forward raises new questions. It is not being
    'stuck' to moot a new important problem. If the experiment establishes that there
    is a new phenomenon to be explained, that is a step forward. You've discovered
    an important new fact, even if the theory is not settled.  "
  created: '2006-11-15 18:52:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"True\" wasn't the best word here - I should call it \"deep\" immersion.
    And the difference between light and deep will seem strange, although I think
    it's necessarily pragmatic: the difference is what it would take for formal science
    (eg Kevin) to start admitting what's really going on! The existing testing does
    lurk in the area of light immersion, which is why you might see an \"and\" saccaded
    over, etc. But such minute exceptions are too rare to need to be addressed, apparently.
    In deep immersion the boumas will start coming out of the woodwork en masse, the
    parafovea fully revealing its true role, thus making it unfeasable to deny the
    truth. For this to happen, the testing needs to be good enough. A very easy way
    to tell if/when it becomes good enough is reading speed; tellingly, speeds are
    way too low right now.\r\n\r\nTest results are irrelevant (at least towards marking
    improvements in text fonts) because when you're not deeply immersed, Nothing Matters.
    You just plod along, reading every letter carefully (although in parallel, so
    not as slowly as deliberative reading, like practiced by reading learners).\r\n\r\n\"Stuck\"
    was (also) not the best word to use here. What I meant was that I think we already
    know that dyslexia isn't moving to deep immersion, and to mark improvement we
    have to understand why. On the other hand, I can see how formal \"proof\" of something
    would greatly help formal science start looking in the right direction.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-15 19:19:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">speed is way too low right now.\r\n\r\nWhat speed are you talking about?
    Aren't we talking about what the average adult reader does when he or she reads?\r\n\r\nI
    am talking about testing the average non-impaired, experienced adult reader vs
    the beginning reader or dyslexic reader. \r\n\r\nI don't see why it would be that
    'nothing matters' for average competent readers; it seems to me we want to explain
    how they operate. "
  created: '2006-11-15 19:25:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Reading speed. Kevin's tests max out at about 350 wpm or so.\r\nMy view is
    that it could be twice that in an experienced reader.\r\n\r\n> I am talking about
    testing the average non-impaired, experienced\r\n> adult reader vs the beginning
    reader or dyslexic reader.\r\n\r\nAnd if you don't facilitate deep immersion,
    the difference you will see will not reflect what's really going on - or I should
    say what really could be going on. Without deep immersion, Kevin's model holds
    95% (which apparently is good enough). But Kevin's model is only half the story;
    the other half containing -among other things- the justification for serifs in
    readability.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-15 19:31:25'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "In stressful conditions the parafovea doesn't operate, tunnel vision comes
    into play.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-11-15 19:39:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">it could be twice that in an experienced reader\r\n\r\nYou can't test now
    what 'could be' but isn't. That's ineffectual fantasy land. \r\n\r\n>if you don\u2019t
    facilitate deep immersion, the difference you will see will not reflect what\u2019s
    really going on - or I should say what really could be going on. \r\n\r\nWhy don't
    you think it is possible to test without big speeds? Good tests magnify small
    effects--the Michelson-Morley experiment being a famous example. Lasers, including
    those in laser printers, magnify quantuum effects that you could never see otherwise...\r\n\r\nIn
    my suggested test, increasing spacing to breakdown and using beginning readers
    and dyslexics is intended to put a magnifying glass on the effects. If the idea
    that normally tight spacing helps the practice normal reader is correct, the differences
    should show up there.\r\n\r\nOnce verified that the difference exists, then further
    theory and tests could get deeper.      "
  created: '2006-11-15 20:43:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> You can\u2019t test now what \u2018could be\u2019 but isn\u2019t. That\u2019s
    ineffectual fantasy land.\r\n\r\nYou've misunderstood me.\r\nI'm saying that if
    tests were good enough they would reveal much higher speeds, speeds at which experienced
    readers DO read when the lab coats aren't around.\r\n\r\n> Why don\u2019t you
    think it is possible to test without big speeds?\r\n\r\nBecause immersive reading,
    being essentially a subconsious activity, is primarily concerned with <cite>efficiency</cite>.
    It's like a wild animal looking for food - it doesn't pause to admire the flowers.
    If it's not going very fast, it's because it's hiding from hunters.\r\n\r\nAsking
    people to \"read normally\" is a lot like asking people to\r\n\"breathe normally\",
    which never results in normal breathing!  :-)\r\n\r\n> Good tests magnify small
    effects\r\n\r\nSure, but you have to be crossing over into the promised land first.\r\nIt's
    not all linear.\r\n\r\n> In my suggested test, increasing spacing to breakdown
    and using\r\n> beginning readers and dyslexics is intended to put a magnifying\r\n>
    glass on the effects.\r\n\r\nThe wrong effect.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-15 20:53:37'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Bill, I think a spacing test such as you describe could be especially telling
    in the O'Brien, Mansfield & Legge context of (partial mis-)interpretation, if
    it were shown that the developmental point at which the spacing stops being neutral,
    or rhythmic spacing stops becoming detrimental, is the point at which a Word Superiority
    Effect emerges.\r\n\r\nHrant is right that many tests knock out parafoveal processing,
    a key component in immersive reading. However tests I've seen that try to gauge
    the contribution of parafoveal pre-processing set it at about 19% in terms of
    the benefit to reading speed, when reading speed is at what we find in people's
    casual, everday reading of everyday texts. The supercessionary routine I try to
    specify operates in foveal vision and is partially set up by parafoveal preview.
    Because my presumed perceptual processing routine pertains to material in foveal
    vision at and around the point of fixation I see the problem with the studies
    as a problem of interpretive framework or paradigm, rather than mainly one of
    ecological validity. I think that the supercessionary perceptual processing response
    bias established in learning to read is the first line of attack even in the artificial
    conditions that examine spacing, speed and degradation thresholds. And I think
    it is unseated by threshold conditions such as alternating case, etc. \r\n\r\nIt's
    my impression that Hrant's non-slot-processing routine is, unlike mine, entirely
    parafoveal. Hrant, correct me if I'm wrong. Relative to this, I also think Hrant
    has to take the problem of neuro-biological specification in the visual cortex
    of his scheme much much more seriously if he wants to make a compelling case to
    me for his claims about processing. It might interest Hrant to know that anatomically
    the parafovea projects to the magnocelluller stream mentioned in the paper you,
    Bill, unearthed. So it's not like the basis for effective exploration and specification
    isn't there. Otherwise it's an issue of posting volume, rhetorical strategies,
    personalities, susceptibilities and who'll break first. \r\n\r\nTypophile probably
    isn't the place for this level of engagement, so I think a research institute
    under a type-school umbrella is a better venue. But I have no bites yet."
  created: '2006-11-15 21:00:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "They've measured 19%. It can be over 60%.\r\n\r\n> Hrant\u2019s non-slot-processing
    routine is, unlike mine, entirely parafoveal.\r\n\r\nIt could be foveal too, but
    typically is not needed there because foveal clarity and parallelism power combine
    to make letterwise certainty generally faster than cognition.\r\n\r\n> Hrant has
    to take the problem of neuro-biological specification\r\n> in the visual cortex
    of his scheme much much more seriously\r\n\r\nAnd I have to take my home mortgage
    even more seriously than that.\r\n\r\n> that anatomically the parafovea projects
    to the magnocelluller stream\r\n\r\nThis sounds interesting, but I don't really
    know what it means. Yes, it would be great for me to find out. There are massive
    holes in my understanding - there's no question about that. But I'm not going
    anywhere without you guys.\r\n\r\n> who\u2019ll break first.\r\n\r\nNo, who'll
    build first.\r\nAnd Typophile is just a means, not an end.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-15 21:32:08'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"It could be foveal too, but typically is not needed there because foveal
    clarity and parallelism power combine to make letterwise certainty generally faster
    than cognition.\"\r\n\r\nSo you're not willing to entertain the first principles
    and central point of what I've been attempting to put forth?\r\n\r\n\r\n\"No,
    who\u2019ll build first.\"\r\n\r\nLet me rephrase the point to which that was
    a reply. Unless we build (explore / specify) together, it's just a question of
    who will break first.\r\n\r\n[You should slow back down to 340 wpm, where accurate
    sense-following is more robust.]"
  created: '2006-11-15 22:19:14'
- author:
    name: Geo Ben
    picture: 111945
  body: "I think I see the problem.\r\n\r\nIn answer to the initial question, no...
    In all likelihood, letterfom features play little or no part in improving readability
    for dyslexics.\r\n\r\nBefore continuing, I should mention that I am (very slightly)
    dyslexic myself. And that \"dyslexia\" is less a disorder in itself than  a common
    term for a variety of symptoms that have much the same result; i.e. an impaired
    reading ability despite apparent intellectual capacity. As Vijai P. Sharma, Ph.D
    \ put it over to mindpub, 'we can conclude that instead of dyslexia, there are
    \"dyslexias,\" and all dyslexias are not created equal'.,\r\n\r\nThe first two
    orders of classification likely would be 'phonological' and 'surface'. Although
    the latter has to do with 'misinterpreting' the shapes of letters and/or an inability
    to recognize words as composed of letters, both appear to be occuring at the synaptic/cognitive
    level. That is to say, it would seem to be a problem within the brain's processing
    of abstract associations rather than the eye's ability to follow and relate letters.
    It can get a lil strange, betimes.\r\n\r\nI will write a \"5\" for an \"S\", for
    instance. This seems simple, there is a certain similarity in shape. I will also
    sometimes write \"F\" for \"5\". That seems to be working on an entirely different
    level. They also have a certain similarity of shape and of course, pronounced,
    \"5\" starts with \"f'. but....  i will also type \"f\" for \"5\". this defies
    all reason as I am not making the shape and they have no relationship to one another
    on the kb.\r\n\r\nSerifed or non-.... ain't gonna change nuthin'. But please carry
    on. It is an entertaining squabble.\r\n\r\ngeo."
  created: '2006-11-16 02:40:22'
date: '2006-11-11 14:51:25'
title: 'which is easily read by dyslexic people: serif or san serif'

---
