---
author:
  name: TBiddy
  picture: 110666
body: Hello all. This is a typeface I've been working on as of late called Bizzle-Chizzle.
  Since this is handdrawn, inconsistencies are part of the fun. I just need to know
  what can be considered charming, and what simply does not work. Let me know what
  you think! <a href=http://www.terrybiddle.com/?page_id=13>Click here to view</a>[img:sites/default/files/old-images/biz_chiz_5637.gif]
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Terry,\r\n\r\nI think there is a market in the Graphic Novel arena for this
    kind of work. I think you should persue it.\r\n\r\nKeep the hand-drawn charm going!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-12 17:33:44'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: Mmmmm tasty... no seriously. it's cake!
  created: '2006-11-12 19:57:15'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I does look like cake. But that might be because it is pink. Maybe Sophia
    Coppola should have used this for Marie Antoinette\u2026\r\n\r\nI like the typeface
    a lot. I don't think that I would change much. It is so personal that I don't
    know how my viewpoint could possible improve it. I wouldn't say this too often."
  created: '2006-11-12 20:26:35'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Thanks all! Dan, I appreciate that. Personal? Not too personal, the only thing
    personal about it is that I drew it. But, drawing like design can always be improved
    upon. If you have any suggestions...I'm certainly open to them. :)
  created: '2006-11-12 20:38:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Terry, three things I notice:\r\n\r\n1. The shadow in the top terminals of
    the CcGSs seems to be a different angle than the e etc. Might it work better if
    it were more consistent?  \r\n\r\n2. The staight lines eg in the right of the
    a, the left of the B D are straight whereas the circular lines and other of the
    verticals have a more hand-drawn feel. These seem like they need more of the hand
    drawn feel, as they are a little stiff compared to the rest, which has the friendly,
    hand drawn feel. \r\n\r\n3. I wonder about the 'upside down' H, since your E and
    F follow the traditional model. \r\n\r\nOverall, my feeling is that if you liberate
    this a bit more from the rigidity of a usual sans and make it a bit more playful,
    it will more fully realize the design.  \r\n\r\nAs a model in this 'formal informal',
    \ you might want to look at<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/tempus-sans-itc/tempus-sans-itc/\">Tempus
    Sans</a> and other Phil Grimshaw fonts, if you haven't already.    "
  created: '2006-11-12 21:07:50'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "Nice one Biddy. I've got a special fondness of hand rendered fonts they have
    such charm (when done well). can't wait to see wher eyou might take it.\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com/print.htm\">Graphic Design, Melbourne</a>\r\n----------\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.littlemischief.com\">Little Mischief</a>"
  created: '2006-11-12 21:46:20'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "I'm not sure if you want to preserve this, but to me, the e, m, t, and u
    seem to leaning forward as if they're about to tip, and the D, L, M, and S seem
    to be tilting backward. Especially with the e, I find it distracting from the
    rhythm of the type. And the \xF1's tilde seems a bit high to me. Even with those
    (quite minor) things, though, it looks really great! I like the \"schoolboy-grafitti\"
    feeling I get from it. And I just noticed the daggers, which really pop out from
    the page."
  created: '2006-11-13 10:41:04'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: Just one thing to my point of view. I reduce the a or I increase the e a bit.
    Nice work btw.
  created: '2006-11-13 12:57:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Maybe it is just me but I think all of the inconsistancies in this kind of
    face add to the funk and make it work better.  If it were too clean, it would
    loose that in-your-face fun and charm. I wouldn't change it just like I would
    never tell Roz Chaste to change her funky cartoon lettering.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-13 14:07:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">all of the inconsistancies in this kind of face add to the funk and make
    it work better.\r\n\r\nChris, I agree that this kind of face needs a lot more
    freedom and variety in its letter forms. But the question is: which inconsistencies
    work? I think it is as hard or perhaps much harder to get this free hand-drawn
    look to work really well. And I think Terry has gone far toward the final result,
    but my feeling is that he isn't quite there yet. \r\n\r\nI don't know how the
    heck Phil Grimshaw did it, but in the case of Tempus Sans, even with all the lively
    and varied angles of strokes, splashing over baselines and x heights etc., it
    manages to have beautiful balance and color anyway. To me that is a worthy goal... "
  created: '2006-11-13 14:20:19'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Thanks all for the comments. Good points about the e, m, t. The \"e\" is
    a bit narrow, and some letterforms do seem to lean. All this can cleaned up by
    a little tweaky-tweak here, and a tweaky-tweak there.\r\n\r\nMy \"m\" should I
    widen it a bit? \r\n\r\nBill, nice observation with the \"c\" I didn't notice
    that 'til you pointed it out. I think I need to redraw it."
  created: '2006-11-13 14:22:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "\u201Cm\u201D should I widen it a bit?\r\n\r\nI think the second arch could
    be widened a bit, but the clear difference from the first arch I think helps with
    the hand-drawn feel. \r\n\r\nAs I said my feeling is that it would help to be
    a bit freer in the sides of the straight letter forms. I like the treatment of
    the top of your h, for example, and would like to see more of that kind of taper
    and dynamism in the lines of your stems.\r\n\r\nBut I feel it would be good to
    be boringly consistent in your shadow--so the diagonal lines connecting the corners
    of the face to the corners of the shadows would all have the same angle. The hash
    marks on the side of the shadow could still keep your hand-drawn freedom and variety
    as they do now, so you would kind of get the best of both worlds..."
  created: '2006-11-13 14:48:09'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: Caaaaaaaaake.
  created: '2006-11-13 23:47:02'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Fun! Love it! Beware of too much thinking, I think (ehe) that will kill this.
  created: '2006-11-14 00:04:38'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Thanks Tiff! Alas, that's the hard part...balancing between fun and just plain
    wrong. At what point do you know when you're over thinking?
  created: '2006-11-14 01:16:56'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "the moment you wonder whether you're over-thinking something!\r\n;)\r\n<br
    />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul Ducco</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com/print.htm\">Graphic Design, Melbourne</a>\r\n----------\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.littlemischief.com\">Little Mischief</a>"
  created: '2006-11-14 01:44:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">At what point do you know when you\u2019re over thinking?\r\n\r\nThere's
    productive thinking and unproductive thinking. Here's my effort to sort it out:\r\n\r\n1.
    Trying to figure what can be changed to make it better when you feel something
    is not right is generally productive, I think. \r\n\r\n2. Imaginatively trying
    to think up new ways to resolve the problems you see is generally productive.
    \r\n\r\n3. Second guessing yourself is, alas, part of type design! When Matthew
    Carter critiqued the typeface I'm working on, he said: 'If you're like some of
    us, you change a point one or two units, and then change your mind the next day
    and put it back. That's what will make the difference as to whether you really
    achieve a fine typeface.'\r\n\r\n4. After a while it gets ridiculous. Then you
    are overdoing it. I remember James Montalbano wrote one time on Typophile: 'Warning:
    being a perfectionist and a type designer will cause your head to explode.'\r\n\r\nStop
    well before that! \r\n\r\nSo basically I think it is a matter of having a standard
    for that particular project, a standard short of perfection. That's what will
    tell you to say: this is finished, publish it, and move on to the next project."
  created: '2006-11-14 02:28:56'
- author:
    name: NigellaL
    picture: 111493
  body: This is tops! I think the spacing is too loose but I grew up in the 70s. How
    does it look in other colours? The 'a' looks like Gotham, which is one of my favourites.
    Nice choice to base it on that one!
  created: '2006-11-14 15:16:47'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>The \u2018a\u2019 looks like Gotham, which is one of my favourites. Nice
    choice to base it on that one!</em>\r\n\r\nThanks, but its actually not really
    based on anything. When I sit down to draw, I don't like to look at any reference
    material. I rely only on my own memory. When I was drawing it I was thinking \"geometric
    grotesque\", old school, with a new school twist. If it looks like anything, its
    probably because it is back there in my memory bank. I look at a lot of type,
    so its possible Gotham snuck in there. :)"
  created: '2006-11-14 16:25:33'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "William -- all good points.\r\n\r\nTerry -- if this is a fun, loose-style,
    hand-lettered font (it is, just humor me), then perfection shouldn't be the goal.
    Maintaining the quirkiness should be. I look at the letters and see a few things
    I <em>might</em> change, but then wonder if those changes would regularize it
    too much. For instance:\r\n\r\n- the crotch of the \"a\" seems too high\r\n- the
    shadow of the 'g' seems too heavy, same with the 'k'\r\n- the shadow on you the
    '\u0111' seems backwards on the top curve. \r\n- the shadow on the 'AE', 'D',
    'Q', 'O' slash, 'o' slash all seem a bit heavy too\r\n- the bowl on the 'b' is
    squashed\r\n\r\nBut you know what, I think the style allows for imperfections,
    heck, it even needs them."
  created: '2006-11-14 18:39:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think Tiff is right. What this font needs is MORE irregularities-- Perhaps
    using opentype substitutions to get contextual alternates working? I like that
    the 3d effects are different and that the stems are varied. The greatest danger
    I see in this font is making it to much like a normal font and not just in-your-face
    fun.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-14 18:46:04'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Contextual alternates...hmmm. That could be fun.
  created: '2006-11-14 19:09:01'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Yes my son, contextual altrenates is what you need.... (Sesame St. Count
    style laugh) heh heh heh heeeh!\r\n\r\nActually I think it would help you add
    an even greater spontinaity to the face. Which would make it EVEN COOLER. :-)
    Feel free to contact me if you want to chat about it. I have been thinking about
    it a lot.\r\n\r\nMy only comment is watch out for shadows that close glyphs. The
    'e' is what I am thinking of. It;s the shape of the terminal. And in the overthinking
    category. The e is rotated right where most characters are rotated left a bit.
    This makes for a nice rhythm but I would dink with it to see what I thought if
    it was me. If you are using contextual altrenates one thing you could do is make
    sure the tilts change contextually so maybe one letter tilts this way the next
    will be this way & so on.\r\n\r\nCongradulations!\r\n\r\nSome crazy ideas: What
    if you did a companion that looked cartoonishly chiseled out of rock?\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    this will be a Fontesque for the Aughties? It's usually in the 6th year of decade
    that defining culture for that decade emerges...\r\n\r\n-e."
  created: '2006-11-14 20:14:04'
- author:
    name: duncan
    picture: 111159
  body: "Very nice!\r\n\r\nContextual alternates is a great idea for a face like this.
    Especially with the hand lettering style alternates could provide allow more of
    the indispensable irregulatities that make the style appreciable and appealing.\r\n\r\nTake
    'em or leave 'em, but these are some things I noticed.\r\n\r\n- e, m, t and w
    seem to tip forward \r\n- the / and \\ seem to tilt at different angles\r\n- amongst
    the capitals, the R seems to bow down making it feel inferior to the letters around
    it to me.\r\n\r\nDuncan"
  created: '2006-11-15 15:59:35'
- author:
    name: cabbage
    picture: 112029
  body: "I think the complete face looks fantastic and, like the above comments, I'm
    sure there's room to improve parts of it, though I would lean towards understated
    changes as I think you've captured something great as-is.\r\n\r\nAside from that,
    the comment I wanted to make was about the Solo version. I was flipping through
    the .pdf at a relatively small size on the desktop and while all the Complete
    samples read well at smaller sizes, when I flipped to the Solo page it looked
    distinctly darker and more muddy. I'm not imagining that you would be setting
    pages of 10pt text in this - but while Solo looks great at larger titling sizes
    (where you can really see the detail), the thin lines of the shadow seem to close
    up pretty fast as it goes down in size. I'm sure it's the light/dark contrast
    of the Compete cut that helps it read so well - and without that contrast the
    Solo letter and shadow seem to blur together. Increasing the thickness of the
    white lines would seem to be away around that - but certainly not a quick or easy
    way around it."
  created: '2006-11-15 16:11:06'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Some crazy ideas: What if you did a companion that looked cartoonishly
    chiseled out of rock?</em>\r\n\r\nEben, what do you mean exactly? Could you go
    into a little more detail?\r\n\r\nThanks all for the comments. I am making a note
    of all these suggestions and readying them next time I sit down in front of FontLab.\r\n\r\nDonnal,
    thanks for the Solo comment. I will certainly keep an eye on this and try to make
    a clearer break between the letter and shadow.\r\n\r\nHas anyone made a layered
    typeface before? My next big concern is going to be on spacing all of the layers
    properly. Any tips or tricks?"
  created: '2006-11-15 18:27:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I don't know how to do a layered typeface, but two examples you might look
    at, if you haven't already, are \r\n\r\nfrom Hoefler & Frere-Jones:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typography.com/catalog/knox/index.html\r\n\r\nAnd
    from Letterror:\r\n\r\nhttp://letterror.com/catalog/fed/index.html\r\n\r\nI don't
    know about getting into contextual alternates at this point, as you've got a full
    plate already. I fear you will be making too much trouble for yourself and delay
    completion to your detriment. You could always add these at a later date if there
    is a demand. \r\n\r\nIf you want to vary the angle of the shadow: one way you
    could do it and get a rhythm in words is to do the vowels and consonants at different
    angles. Personally I am doubtful about this idea of different perspectives, but
    of course I don't know what will work.   \r\n"
  created: '2006-11-15 19:11:12'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Eben, what do you mean exactly? Could you go into a little more detail?
    </cite> \r\n\r\nI mean that the typeface you have here here is a little like a
    very fun version of the 20th century fox letters ( extrududed stone ) - which
    is mocked by Monty Python here:\r\n\r\nhttp://ec1.images-amazon.com/images/P/6305388458.01._AA240_SCLZZZZZZZ_.jpg\r\n\r\nI
    meant that it would be cool to make a face where the style was cartoony like this
    one but applied to a face chiseled into the surface of a stone like so:\r\n\r\nhttp://static.flickr.com/90/274160613_3e1db5af00.jpg?v=0\r\n\r\nIt's
    just a hybrid I have never seen before & working with the niche theory of type
    design...\r\n\r\nAbout the contextual thing. I agree with William that you are
    better off getting the thing out ASAP as long as you feel good about it's being
    solid etc. But I also think that an enhanced version ( costing a bit more perhaps?
    ) With the altrenates would be WICKED. Or you could send it on for free later
    when it's done as an additional inducement to Buy NOW!\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2006-11-15 20:07:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben, do you mean kind of a Flintstones titles lettering as cut from stone?
    That might be fun.  Terry could do a whole series based on different materials
    from old wooden boards to brick, to junkyard scrap metal.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-15 20:19:03'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: And it's alternates could have palimpsest.
  created: '2006-11-15 20:45:59'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Ho ho ho. Yes, I guess there was stuff like that in the Flitstones... Anybody
    got a screen capture? Watch out Terry you could be making fonts out of plumbing
    bits next... not sure how much of a market there is for that...\r\n\r\n<cite>palimpsest</cite>\r\n\r\nZing-o!
    You have been on Flicker no?"
  created: '2006-11-15 21:05:44'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Watch out Terry you could be making fonts out of plumbing bits next\u2026
    not sure how much of a market there is for that\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nLOL! These are
    some interesting ideas though, Chris and Eben! I am also working on a serif face
    similar to this (more metallic than chiseled) which will have a lot of fun classic
    ligatures. (I'm still debating on matching italics.) That's after I finish Bizzle
    though. I still gotta lotta work to do! :)\r\n\r\n<em>palimpsest</em>\r\n\r\nWhassat?"
  created: '2006-11-15 21:48:44'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "It's a Word Hrant used recently - that's the context that I am guessing is
    behind Eric's comment. I think he meant it as a joke. Maybe not though. Eric?
    Did you mean it? How would it work? Why?\r\n\r\nThe word means visual echo or
    trace of what was there before. See also:\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palimpsest\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-15 22:28:53'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "Um, I missed any recent usage...I was serious...kinda...just like the big
    letters were carved out of something that already had inscription or writing on
    it. Like some inconsiderate stone carver hacked up trajan's column or somtin.
    Would work well as headline font, larger sizes so you could see the detail.\r\n\r\nSince
    his system already layers, it would just be another option.\r\n\r\nWhy not?"
  created: '2006-11-16 05:11:04'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Eric, I appreciate the suggestion. But that might make it a tad more busy
    than it already is. :)
  created: '2006-11-17 02:32:10'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Terry:\r\n\r\nWhen we made the final files for the Chromatic Woodtypes, we
    saved duplicates of the final, spaced decorative faces, then carefully deleted
    the fancy outlines from the new file, keeping only the fill outlines. That way,
    each font file had exactly identical character widths and kerning tables. I know
    your font has more layers, but maybe you could keep all your various layers in
    just 2 layers of a regular VFB, save as 4 different VFBs, then delete irrelevant
    outlines, switch Mask and Outline layers, etc. You would definitely have to have
    all the spacing etc. done before splitting it up. I don't know how else to ensure
    perfect alignment (which, you must admit, could be an interesting thing to toss
    out in a design like this). "
  created: '2006-11-17 22:41:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Carl, Thanks for the process hints!
  created: '2006-11-18 02:52:57'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Carl, Thanks for the process hints!</em>\r\n\r\nIndeed. Carl, I'll probably
    be picking your brain about this soon! ;)"
  created: '2006-11-19 19:47:57'
date: '2006-11-12 17:00:08'
node_type: forum
title: Bizzle-Chizzle? Fo' rizzle my nizzles!

---
