---
author:
  name: dezcom
  picture: 109959
body: "I have been working on a typeface called Tovarich which has several opentype
  features which used to work fine until a few days ago. I can't figure out what I
  did to screw it up but I must have done something bone-headed.\r\nFrom within FontLab
  5, my features compile properly without complaint. They show up and work as expected
  in the preview screen. When I output the font as PostScripot flavored OTF, my features
  vanish in both InDesign and Illustrator CS. There are brackets around the feature
  names in the menu indicating \"nobody home\" and the features don't work. For the
  past few days, I have been trashing my features and redoing them all to no avail.
  \ I trashed them and then imported features from one of my other fonts which is
  working fine but it still does not work! I have trashed my cashe several times,
  rebooted, resaved the font under a new name and redone the features again all with
  the same unpleasant result, terminal frustration! What the heck have I done wrong?
  Why will the exact same feature code work on one font and not another?\r\nI would
  be tearing my hair out but that ship has long sailed,\r\n\r\nAny help would be appreciated,\r\n\r\nChrisL"
comments:
- author:
    name: scruggsdesign
    picture: 128176
  body: how about trashing your adobefnt files?
  created: '2006-11-13 22:16:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Josh,\r\n\r\nHow do I do that?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-13 22:29:38'
- author:
    name: scruggsdesign
    picture: 128176
  body: "do a search for \u201Cadobefnt\u201D it should bring up a bunch of files
    ending in .lst\r\nsometimes trashing all these files fixes some problems.\r\nI\u2019m
    on a Mac\u2026 don't know if it\u2019s the same on PC."
  created: '2006-11-13 22:54:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Josh. I am on a Mac as well.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-13 23:16:18'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "are there cyrillic characters in your font?\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/18044\">This
    thread</a> may address the same problem?"
  created: '2006-11-13 23:36:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yes, there is a whole Cyrillic set in it.  But no Greek this time.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Henyk
      picture: 111038
    body: Some opentype features for cyrillic script which works in AdobeCS for Windows
      don't works in AdobeCS for MacOSX 10.4.x, f.ex. liga, howewer calt is working...
    created: '2006-11-14 07:32:27'
  created: '2006-11-14 01:53:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I remembered that thread and set only basic Roman with no help. I then added
    greek but still no help!\r\nMy font has CE Latin extended A, Cyrillic with the
    extended Cyrilic for Baltic. What I don't get is that all my other fonts that
    I have designed work just fine.  It is only this one that baffles me :-/\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-14 02:02:40'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "Do you have the language system(s) declared properly? If you only declare\r\n\r\n<code>
    languagesystem DFLT dflt;</code>\r\n\r\nyou will see no layout features in InDesign
    CS2 (and earlier, I presume). The DFLT/dflt language system is relatively new,
    and should work all by itself someday, but for now, some apps don't know about
    it. For now, you should always include some other language system declaration
    (and that usually means latn/dflt).\r\n\r\nOf course, if you really did import
    <em>all</em> features from some other font that works, including the language
    system declarations, then I guess I am stumped."
  created: '2006-11-14 02:27:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Do I declare the language system in InD or in FontLab? I assume it must be
    in the Opentype feature in FontLab because I don't know where to find it in InD.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-14 03:54:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here is my feature code:\r\n\r\nfeature tnum { #tabular numbers\r\n\tsub
    @num by @TNUM;\r\n} tnum;\r\n\r\n\r\nfeature numr { # Numerators\r\n # Latin\r\n\tsub
    @num by @numr2;\r\n\tlanguage AZE ; # Azeri\r\n\tlanguage CRT ; # Crimean Tatar\r\n\tlanguage
    DEU ; # German\r\n\tlanguage FRA ; # French\r\n\tlanguage ITA ; # Italian\r\n\tlanguage
    MOL ; # Moldavian\r\n\tlanguage ROM ; # Romanian\r\n\tlanguage SRB ; # Serbian\r\n\tlanguage
    TRK ; # Turkish\r\n\tscript cyrl; # Cyrillic\r\n\tsub @num by @numr2;\r\n\tscript
    grek; # Greek\r\n\tsub @num by @numr2;\r\n} numr;\r\n\r\n\r\nfeature sups {# superior
    figures\r\n\tsub @num by @supnum;\r\n\tsub @infnum by @supnum;\r\n\tsub @numr2
    by @supnum;\r\n\tsub @dnom1 by @supnum;\r\n} sups;\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nfeature locl
    { # Localized Forms\r\n # Latin\r\n language MOL  exclude_dflt; # Moldavian\r\n
    \   sub [Scedilla scedilla] by [Scommaaccent scommaaccent];\r\n language ROM  exclude_dflt;
    # Romanian\r\n    sub [Scedilla scedilla] by [Scommaaccent scommaaccent]; } locl;\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nfeature
    frac { # Fractions\r\nlookup frac1 {\r\n\tsub one' [slash fraction]' four' by
    onequarter;\r\n\tsub one' [slash fraction]' two' by onehalf;\r\n\tsub three' [slash
    fraction]' four' by threequarters;\r\n\tsub one' [slash fraction]' three' by onethird;\r\n\tsub
    two' [slash fraction]' three' by twothirds;\r\n\tsub one' [slash fraction]' eight'
    by oneeighth;\r\n\tsub three' [slash fraction]' eight' by threeeighths;\r\n\tsub
    five' [slash fraction]' eight' by fiveeighths;\r\n\tsub seven' [slash fraction]'
    eight' by seveneighths; } frac1;\r\n} frac;\r\n\r\n\r\nfeature liga { # Standard
    Ligatures\r\n # Latin\r\nlookup liga1 {\r\n\tsub f f i by f_f_i;\r\n\tsub f i
    by fi;\r\n} liga1;\r\nlookup liga2 {\r\n\tsub f f l by f_f_l;\r\n\tsub t t i by
    t_t_i;\r\n\tsub f l by fl;\r\n\tsub f f by f_f;\r\n\tsub t t by  t_t;\r\n\tsub
    t i by t_i;\r\n\tsub T T by T_T;\r\n} liga2;\r\n language TUR  exclude_dflt;\r\nlookup
    liga2;\r\n} liga;\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-14 04:07:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I just checked Apples \"Pages\" and \"Keynote\" applications.  Liga works
    fine with them but I don't think they support frac anyway. Liga does not work
    with Adobe aps though :-/\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-14 04:13:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Josh,\r\nI tried trashing \u201Cadobefnt\u201D but it didn't help.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-14 04:16:29'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "Ah, here we go:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/28277\r\n\r\nThere's some
    discussion about languagesystem in there. I forgot that DFLT/dflt is so new that
    FontLab doesn't yet recognize it (right?), but perhaps the language system tags
    in general are your problem."
  created: '2006-11-14 04:27:36'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "By the way, only delete AdobeFnt*.lst files, not the AdobeFnt.db file (if
    you have it).\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-11-14 06:11:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Christopher, I assume you meant:\r\n\"However, in the FDK 2.0, the
    default script is \u201CDFLT\u201D, so the effect is saying:\r\nscript DFLT;\r\nlanguage
    ROM;\r\n\r\nand the only legal language tag for the DFLT script is the \u2018dflt\u2019
    language.\r\n\r\nTo get what you want, you should put the lines:\r\nlanguagesystem
    DFLT dflt;\r\nlanguagesystem latn dflt;\r\nlanguagesystem latn ROM;\r\n\r\nat
    the beginning of the feature file; all features not registered under a specific
    language will then be registered under these three script/language pairs.\r\n\r\nIn
    features where you specify any language or script, you need to spell out all the
    script language combinations, and explicitly include the appropriate features
    under each, e.g\r\nscript DFLT;\r\nlanguage dflt;\r\nlookup LOOKUP_1 {\r\n\u2026
    lots of rules\r\n} LOOKUP_1;\r\n\r\nscript latn;\r\nlanguage ROM;\r\nlookup LOOKUP_1;
    # reference to the previously defined LOOKUP_1,\r\n# so that it will be included
    under latn-ROM as well as DFLT-dflt.\"\r\n\r\nI thought that only applied to the
    Adobe FDK2 tool? Unless you can tell me I need to put something similar in my
    FontLab5 features?\r\n\r\nWhat is weird is that it only does wrong on this font,
    not any of the others I've done the same way.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-14 13:19:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Thomas, I only deleted the .lst files but to no avail.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-14 13:20:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "To further fuel the debate, I just loaded my problematic Tovarich font here
    at the office. I do all my font development at home on a different computer. At
    home, I have my personal copy od InDesign CS suite.  Here at the office, I have
    the newer CS2. Both home and office computers are Macs running the same system
    software Mac OS 10.4.8. Both are pre-Intel G5s.\r\nAlthough the \"OSF\" icon does
    not show up on the Tovarich I loaded here at the office, ALL OF MY OTF FEATURES
    WORK HERE! Again, the for certain difference is that here I am using CS2 instead
    of CS at home. There may be more to it than that but that is a start. This would
    all make sense if all my OTF fonts behaved the same way, but they don't.  Every
    other opentype font on my system at home works on the older Adobe CS just fine
    EXCEPT Tovarich--go figure.\r\nHas Adobe heard any other CS vs. CS2 font issues
    with opentype?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-14 13:34:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here is a PNG file showing working OTF features in CS2.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Tovarich-Test-_3473.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-14 14:06:25'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "I was hoping a FontLab expert would chime in with some guidance about the
    languagesystem declarations. I am not sure if FontLab allows you to just put those
    statements in the OpenType panel, or if FontLab is generating its own language
    system tags using something in the font info.\r\n\r\nTry putting the line\r\n<code>languagesystem
    latn dflt;</code>\r\nin the \"global\" part of the OpenType panel."
  created: '2006-11-14 18:31:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Christopher, I will give it a try.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-14 18:34:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I was hoping a FontLab expert would chime in with some guidance about the
    languagesystem declarations.\"\r\n\r\nMe too.  Maybe Adam Twardoch will see this
    thread and set me straight :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: Have there been any complaints
    to Adobe about this kind of thing with CS before?"
  created: '2006-11-14 18:50:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Another issue: Now the font has moved down the list to the foreign script
    area at the bottom, Even though I don't have anything other than basic Latin checked?
    Is there a fix for this too?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-14 22:40:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hereis a PNG of the font menu in CS:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fontlist_3526.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-14 23:04:54'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Chris, \r\n\r\nyour OpenType code looks like a result of some wild grab-and-paste
    action, randomly collected from other people\u2019s fonts. In short, your OpenType
    code doesn\u2019t make any sense at all. \r\n\r\n1. In the lower-right part of
    the OpenType panel, declare *all* the languagesystems that your OT code uses.
    \r\n\r\nYou should at any case declare these two: \r\n\r\nlanguagesystem DFLT
    dflt;\r\nlanguagesystem latn dflt;\r\n\r\nThen, you should declare all the languages
    that use the Latin script for which you have some special handling. For the Scedilla->Scommaaccent
    \"locl\" behavior, declare Moldavian (MOL) and Romanian (ROM). For the special
    \"i\" casing and ligature treatment, declare Azeri (AZE), Crimean Tatar (CRT)
    and Turkish (TRK, *not* TUR!): \r\n\r\nlanguagesystem latn AZE;\r\nlanguagesystem
    latn CRT;\r\nlanguagesystem latn MOL;\r\nlanguagesystem latn ROM;\r\nlanguagesystem
    latn TRK;\r\n\r\nIf your font includes any Cyrillic glyphs, you should also declare
    the Cyrillic script: \r\n\r\nlanguagesystem cyrl dflt;\r\n\r\nIf you want to include
    special Serbian glyphs in locl, declare Serbian as well: \r\n\r\nlanguagesystem
    cyrl SRB;\r\n\r\nIf your font includes any Greek language glyphs (i.e. not mathematical
    Greek), you should also declare the Greek script: \r\n\r\nlanguagesystem grek
    dflt;\r\n\r\n\r\nSo your lower-right part of the OpenType panel may look like
    this: \r\n\r\nlanguagesystem DFLT dflt;\r\nlanguagesystem latn dflt;\r\nlanguagesystem
    latn AZE;\r\nlanguagesystem latn CRT;\r\nlanguagesystem latn MOL;\r\nlanguagesystem
    latn ROM;\r\nlanguagesystem latn TRK;\r\nlanguagesystem cyrl dflt;\r\nlanguagesystem
    cyrl SRB;\r\nlanguagesystem grek dflt;\r\n\r\nThis provides a map for all the
    languagesystems that will be included in your font. If a feature definition does
    not use any exceptions, it will be automatically assigned to all the languagesystems
    defined there. \r\n\r\nIf a feature definition defines any exceptional handling
    for any of the languagesystems, you must enumerate all of these languagesystems
    once again, inside of the feature definition, and you must specify for each of
    them the appropriate action (i.e. \"exclude_dflt\" or \"include_dflt\" plus some
    lookups if necessary). \r\n\r\nAs for \"smcp\", \"c2sc\" and \"liga\" handling
    of Turkish \"i\", I recommend using the new Adobe approach. That is, \r\n\r\nfeature
    locl { # Localized Forms\r\n script latn; \r\n # Handling of Turkish i\r\n language
    TRK exclude_dflt;\r\n lookup locl_TRK { \r\n   sub [i I.smcp] by [i.TRK Idotaccent.smcp];\r\n
    \  # The \"i.TRK\" glyph should be an identical copy of \"i\"\r\n } locl_TRK;
    \r\n language AZE exclude_dflt;\r\n lookup locl_TRK; \r\n language CRT exclude_dflt;\r\n
    lookup locl_TRK; \r\n # Handling of Romanian Scommaaccent \r\n language ROM exclude_dflt;\r\n
    lookup locl_ROM {\r\n    sub [Scedilla scedilla] by [Scommaaccent scommaaccent];\r\n
    \   sub Scedilla.smcp by Scommaaccent.smcp;\r\n } locl_ROM; \r\n language MOL
    exclude_dflt;\r\n lookup locl_ROM; \r\n} locl;\r\n\r\n(You may also want to include
    the Serbian glyph handling there). \r\n\r\nThis way, you will avoid the need to
    deal with \"script\" and \"language\" in ANY other OpenType feature definition.
    \r\n\r\nSimply make sure that in the feature definition of \"smcp\" (or in the
    appropriate classes), \"i\" gets replaced by \"I.smcp\" and \"i.TRK\" by \"Idotaccent.smcp\".
    Of course \"dotlessi\" should be replaced by \"I.smcp\" as well. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2006-11-15 01:19:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Adam! I will try and digest all of that in my feeble way :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-15 01:35:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Adam,\r\nI did what you suggested and IT WORKED! I knew I had done something
    boneheaded! \r\nTHANKS for figuring it out!\r\n\r\nNow I wonder why it works in
    CS2 messed up as it was originally?  Maybe CS2 has a bonehead debugger built right
    in :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-15 02:00:51'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Adam, are you sure that the 'exclude_dflt' statements need to be used inside
    'locl', as in your example?\r\n\r\nAFAIK they don't, because:\r\n1. In 'locl'
    we want to define language specific behavior, so neither 'script DFLT;' or 'language
    dflt;' commands should ever be used there, and\r\n2. Since 'language dflt;' is
    not used, there's no default behavior specified, so there's no reason for using
    'exclude_dflt;'.\r\n\r\nAm I missing something?"
  created: '2006-11-15 09:54:16'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>You should at any case declare these two:\r\n\r\nlanguagesystem DFLT
    dflt;\r\nlanguagesystem latn dflt;</em>\r\n\r\nAdam, will the DFLT tag cause any
    problems with the current version of FLS5?"
  created: '2006-11-15 14:15:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"# The \u201Ci.TRK\u201D glyph should be an identical copy of \u201Ci\u201D\"\r\n\r\nNot
    the dotless i Adam? If it is exactly the same, why not just point to the Latin
    \"i\"?  I am really missing something here. Itmay be that I just don't understand
    the contexts in Turkish which need a substitution( or lack there of).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-15 14:50:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think I see it now Adam. If, in Turkish, I substitute \"i.trk\" for \"i\"
    before I apply the liga feature, then the liga feature will only be applied to
    the Latin i in non-Turkish usage. This would eliminate the repetition of locl
    exclusions for multiple ligatures.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-15 15:17:22'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> If, in Turkish, I substitute \u201Ci.trk\u201D for \u201Ci\u201D \r\n>
    before I apply the liga feature, then the liga \r\n> feature will only be applied
    to the Latin i in \r\n> non-Turkish usage. This would eliminate the \r\n> repetition
    of locl exclusions for multiple \r\n> ligatures.\r\n\r\nExactly. This is the technique
    Adobe adopted in Garamond Premier Pro and later releases. In \"locl\", you chage
    the \"identity\" of the letter i without changing its appearance, and then the
    rest of your code is clean and easy, without the necessity of dealing with various
    exceptions, and without the need to think about it in all the OpenType features
    you may think of. \r\n\r\n> will the DFLT tag cause any problems with the \r\n>
    current version of FLS5?\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, yes. Inside the font file, a script
    tag \"    \" (four spaces) rather than \"DFLT\" will be produced. This is an unregistered
    tag, so I don\u2019t think it will break anything, but it\u2019s not optimal.
    As soon as we upgrade FontLab Studio to make use of AFDKO 2, the feature syntax
    will automatically produce the correct result. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-11-15 18:00:14'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Unfortunately, yes. Inside the font file, a script tag \u201D \u201D
    (four spaces) rather than \u201CDFLT\u201D will be produced.</em>\r\n\r\nis this
    something can be fixed simply with TTX?\r\n\r\ncan i just replace the line\r\n<code>&#60;ScriptTag
    value=\"    \"/&#62;</a></code>\r\nwith\r\n<code>&#60;ScriptTag value=\"DFLT\"/&#62;</a></code>\r\n?"
  created: '2006-11-15 18:02:31'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Yes. I\u2019ve just compared the output of AFDKO 2 and FontLab Studio 5,
    and the GSUB table was the same except for that very difference. You can do the
    replacement manually. But I have just written a Python script that will perform
    the fix on an arbitrary number of fonts automatically: \r\n\r\nhttp://www.silesian.com/software/FixDFLTScriptTagSL.zip\r\n\r\nFrom
    the README.TXT: \r\n\r\n   FixDFLTScriptTagSL 1.0 (061115)\r\n\r\n   Changes invalid
    default OT Layout script tag '    ' to 'DFLT'\r\n   in all OpenType fonts found
    in a folder (current or specified).\r\n   Keeps a backup copy of the original
    font file (.bak extension).\r\n   \r\n   Copyright (c) 2006 by Silesian Letters,
    http://www.silesian.com/\r\n   Written in Python 2.4 by Adam Twardoch. FREEWARE.\r\n\r\n
    \  usage: python FixDFLTScriptTagSL.py [folder]\r\n\r\n   Requires the Python
    source version of FontTools/TTX: \r\n   http://www.font.org/software/ttx/\r\n\r\n
    \  The OpenType Layout feature definition statements such as\r\n   'languagesystem
    DFLT dflt;' or 'script DFLT;' errorneously \r\n   produce a script tag '    '
    instead of the intended 'DFLT' \r\n   inside of the font file when the font is
    produced using \r\n   Adobe FDK for OpenType (AFDKO) version 1.6, FontLab 4.x,
    \r\n   or FontLab Studio version up to 5.0.2. Using AFDKO 2.0 \r\n   produces
    correct results. This Python script corrects \r\n   the errorneous entries in
    existing OpenType fonts. \r\n\r\nEnjoy,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-15 19:58:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am assuming your script is for P{C only, correct Adam?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-15 20:01:03'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "The script runs on both Mac OS X and Windows. I have just uploaded a revised
    version 1.1 of the script to\r\n\r\nhttp://www.silesian.com/software/FixDFLTScriptTagSL.zip\r\n\r\nthat
    can run conveniently inside of FontLab Studio 5 as well as from the commandline.
    \r\n\r\nINSTALLATION  \r\n\r\n1. Make sure you have Python installed. \r\n\r\n
    \  On Mac OS X 10.4, Python 2.3 is installed by default. It will work fine, but
    installing Python 2.4 is recommended. On Windows, install Python 2.4 from http://www.python.org/\r\n\r\n2.
    Install the source Python version of FontTools/TTX. \r\n\r\n   Download and unzip
    the file\r\n   http://fonttools.sourceforge.net/cvs-snapshots/zip/fonttools-current-snapshot.zip\r\n
    \  \r\n   Open the Terminal (Mac OS X) or the command-line window (Windows)\r\n
    \  \r\n   Go to the folder where you unzipped FontTools (using the '<code>cd</code>'
    command). If you unzipped the file on your Mac OS X Desktop, you will probably
    need to type in <code>cd Desktop/fontTools</code>. Then, type in, on Mac OS X:
    \r\n\r\n<code>sudo python setup.py install</code>\r\n\r\n   or on Windows: \r\n\r\n<code>python
    setup.py install</code>\r\n\r\n3. To test if the installation was correct, open
    FontLab Studio 5, open the Edit Macro panel, type in: \r\n\r\n<code>import fontTools.ttLib</code>\r\n\r\n
    \  and click on \"Run macro\". If an error message appears, your installation
    of FontTools/TTX failed. If nothing appears, you have a correct installation of
    the source Python version of FontTools/TTX. \r\n\r\n4. Locate your FontLab Studio
    5 data folder using Windows Explorer/Finder. \r\n\r\n   Go to Options/Preferences
    / General Options / Folders and paths, \r\n   and check the \"FontLab Studio 5
    files\" textfield. \r\n   If the textfield is empty, and you're on Mac OS X, go
    to \r\n   <code>%yourusername%/Library/Application Support/FontLab/Studio 5/</code>\r\n
    \  Otherwise, go to the folder specified in that textfield. This is your FontLab
    Studio 5 data folder. \r\n\r\n5. Inside of your FontLab Studio 5 data folder,
    there should be a folder named \"<code>Macros</code>\". If it is not there, create
    one. \r\n\r\n6. Inside of the Macros folder, create a folder named \"<code>Silesian</code>\".\r\n
    \ \r\n7. Unzip FixDFLTScriptTagSL.zip and put the file <code>FixDFLTScriptTagSL.py</code>
    into the Silesian folder. \r\n   \r\n8. Restart FontLab Studio and in the Macro
    toolbar, choose <code>Silesian</code> from the Macro folders list, and then choose
    <code>Fix DFLT OT Script Tags [SL]</code> from the Macro programs list. Click
    on the Run button. \r\n\r\n(It is also possible to run this macro from the commandline
    outside of FontLab Studio)."
  created: '2006-11-15 20:56:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Adam, do you have any idea when the version of FontLab with AFDKO 2 incorporated
    will be released? '
  created: '2006-11-15 21:01:41'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> do you have any idea when the version of FontLab \r\n> with AFDKO 2 incorporated
    will be released\r\n\r\nWe don\u2019t currently have anything to announce about
    this. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-11-15 21:03:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks for the update Adam!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-15 22:25:56'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: Adam, what about <a href="node/29469#comment-168582">my question</a> ?
  created: '2006-11-16 04:02:02'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Miguel, \r\n\r\nyou are right, it\u2019s not necessary but it doesn\u2019t
    harm -- the output is identical. I like to include it just to make sure just for
    the sake of good coding practice and consistency. Whenever I write code, I like
    to make sure that my snippets are always \"cut-and-pastable\" without paying attention
    to modality/context too much. I prefer explicit vs. implied, so I always specify
    either the \"exclude_dflt\" or the \"include_dlft\" statement whenever I do language-specific
    processing. \r\n\r\nIndeed, in \"locl\", there usually is no \"language dflt\"
    statement so the exclude_dflt statement is not required. However, had this kind
    of processing been done in a different feature, one would need to use exclude_dflt,
    so I simply include it as a means to make sure that I know where I am. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-11-16 05:04:30'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: "Also, for whatever it may be worth, in the PDF of slides used for Christopher
    Slye's talk on OpenType feature files (at the ATypI 2006 Lisbon conference) one
    finds this snippet:\r\n\r\n\r\n<strong>Saving the i-dot</strong>\r\n<code>\r\nfeature
    liga {\r\n  script DFLT;\r\n  language dflt;\r\n  sub f i by f_i;\r\n  script
    latn;\r\n  language dflt include_dflt;\r\n  language TRK exclude_dflt;\r\n} liga;\r\n</code>\r\nSaid
    PDF is available at:\r\nhttp://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/atypi2006/slye_lisbon-05.pdf\r\n\r\nSeems
    to me it can't hurt.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-16 05:45:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "@RC--Thanks for posting that! The pdf of Christopher's presentation is something
    I wish I had seen before.\r\n\r\n@Christopher Slye--Your pdf goes a long way in
    showing the \"why\" and \"how: of feature code. Prior to this, I was just trying
    to decipher what I had seen and make some sense of it. As you can see from my
    code above, I was fishing in the dark and trying to teach myself how to do it
    (a blind-man fishing in the dark).  I also didn't realize until now that you worked
    for Adobe, the collective pronouns you used now make sense to me :-) a very big
    THANK YOU for your help! The fog is starting to lift and I can now at least see
    the water :-)\r\n\r\n@Punchcut gang--What a wonderful place Typophile is to get
    real help and expert Advice from people like Christopher, Adam, Miguel, and Paul.
    KEEP UP THE GOOD WORK!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-16 13:03:41'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "rcc, \r\n\r\nyou don\u2019t need to do this kind of treatment if your \"locl\"
    feature replaced i with i.TRK for Turkish. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-11-16 13:47:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "One of the other slides in Christopher's presentation shows the \"i.dot\"
    solution Adam mentioned.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/trkdot_4081.png]"
  created: '2006-11-16 13:58:51'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: "<em>you don't need to do this kind of treatment if your \"locl\" feature
    replaced i with i.TRK for Turkish.</em>\r\n\r\nAdam, \r\n\r\nRight... I suspected
    someone might call me on this bit. (Mere newcomer's angst, that?)\r\n\r\nHowever,
    being mindful of the current scarcity of 'locl' support and suchlike, I raised
    the issue for its 'belt-and-braces' potential, reckoning thus: if one as-yet-unimplemented
    feature doesn't execute the intended substitution, the other one ought to do so,
    yes? And later, if one projects a few months/years down the chronological road,
    such coding redundancies ought to be smoothly ignored when applications do in
    fact support the anticipated feature(s). (Though by that time, one would likely
    wish to amend and update one's feature code and issue revised versions anyway.)\r\n\r\nOr
    is that dreadfully wrongheaded? What, if one can state them, are 'best practices'
    on such issues? Wiser counsel won't be disregarded. \r\n\r\nThank you."
  created: '2006-11-16 16:38:16'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "rcc, \r\n\r\nin theory, you\u2019re right. It is possible that an OpenType
    Layout engine would do language-sensitive OpenType processing (i.e. process OpenType
    features assigned to languages other than \"dflt\"), but it would not automatically
    apply the \"locl\" feature. But this is *very* unlikely. Currently, major applications
    do not use the language-sensitive processing. Adobe applications currenly only
    apply features assigned to \"latn dflt\" while Microsoft applications apply features
    for complex scripts assigned to the dflt language in the respective scripts (arab,
    hebr etc.). \r\n\r\nEspecially for the non-complex scripts, I think it is safe
    to assume that if an application processes language-sensitive lookups, it will
    also apply \"locl\". \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-16 17:05:18'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: "Thanks for the additional insight, Adam. It's truly appreciated.\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nrcc"
  created: '2006-11-16 17:48:03'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Adam\r\n\r\n<cite>lookup locl_TRK {\r\nsub [i I.smcp] by [i.TRK Idotaccent.smcp];</cite>\r\n\r\nEven
    in Turkish it should be allowed to set an dotless I.smcp. Your code requires an
    additional character \"dotlessi.smcp\".\r\n\r\nIn http://typophile.com/node/69063
    I propose to either keep the font absolutely symmetrically with regard to dotlessi
    and i or to break the symmetry of the dotlessi.\r\n\r\nE I T H E R\r\nDotlessi,
    Dotlessi.smcp, dotlessi, Idotaccent, Idotaccent.smcp, idotaccent, I, I.smcp and
    i. (Please, symmetrie also with regard to the names \u2013 not i.trk and Idotaccent
    or idotaccent and I.trk!)\r\n\r\nO R\r\nsame as above, but without Dotlessi and
    without Dotlessi.smcp\r\n\r\n-------------------\r\n\r\nEveryone is cooking his
    own soup there. In Athelas (TypeTogether) only i.smcp is substituted by idotaccent.smcp
    in the locl feature, but not i by idotaccent."
  created: '2010-04-03 11:06:18'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Adam\r\n\r\n<cite>Dotlessi and idotaccent are not PDF-compatible glyphnames.
    They resolve to an unknown character. Instead of \"idotaccent\", Adobe recommends
    using \"i\" with a suffix, and FontLab recommends \"i.TRK\", specifically.</cite>\r\n\r\nNow
    I am totally confused. This shocks me. I thought, that the only important thing
    is, that the characters have the correct Unicode and if you search for a string
    \"Adam\" in a PDF, the characters are first translated to Unicode. I thought,
    that the character names are totally unimportant for the user in case of OpenType
    fonts. I thought for example, that I could name the letter b \"barbarella\", as
    long as the Unicode is correct."
  created: '2010-04-03 12:01:39'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "<cite>Now I am totally confused. This shocks me. I thought, that the only
    important thing is, that the characters have the correct Unicode and if you search
    for a string \u201CAdam\u201D in a PDF, the characters are first translated to
    Unicode. </cite>\r\n\r\nCiting the FontLab Studio manual, published in 2006. The
    chapter \u201CGlyph Naming and Character Encoding\u201D (which I have written),
    page 145, says: \r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\n<dd>When
    fonts are embedded in electronic documents or sent to a printer, under some circumstances
    only the information about the glyphs (their glyph indexes, names and outlines)
    are retained, while the encoding information (the associated Unicode codepoints)
    is lost. The electronic document \u201Clooks right\u201D but the underlying text
    streams are obscured or not available. In such cases, meaningfully constructed
    glyph names can be used as a help to rebuild or at least approximate the original
    text. A practical example: the user creates a text document that uses an OpenType
    PS font. The document is printed to a PostScript file. Since PostScript does not
    support OpenType PS, the font is embedded in the print stream as Type 1. The OpenType
    information such as layout tables or Unicode codepoints is lost. If Acrobat Distiller
    is used to convert the PostScript file to a PDF document, the application first
    tries to locate the original OpenType PS font on the user\u2019s system: if the
    font is found, Distiller is able to use its original Unicode codepoints and embed
    them in the PDF document. But if the original OpenType PS font is not available
    to Distiller (for example because the PS-to-PDF conversion happens on a different
    machine), Distiller embeds the Type 1 font found in the PostScript stream, with
    no Unicode information. Now, when the text in the PDF document is being searched,
    copy-pasted or otherwise extracted by an application such as Acrobat or Google,
    the application can attempt to rebuild the Unicode codepoints basing on glyph
    names included in the embedded Type 1 font. For Latin or Cyrillic scripts, the
    recreated text will likely be a very close match of the original; for Thai or
    Hindi, the text recreated that way will probably be only a crude approximation,
    with letters arranged in incorrect sequence, and some information missing. But
    yet, some is often better than nothing.</dd>\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\n\r\nApart
    from Distiller, there are many other PDF creation applications, and only some
    embed the Unicode codepoints in the PDF file. The backup option is always the
    glyphnames, which is why they need to be \u201Cmeaningful\u201D. \r\n\r\nThis
    mechanism has also been described in several other locations, including here on
    Typophile. I recommend reading the section \u201CAdvanced Glyph Naming and Encoding\u201D
    (p. 145 ff.) of the FontLab Studio manual, which is quite essential reading on
    this topic. \r\n\r\nAdobe has also published about this: \r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/devnet/opentype/archives/glyph.html\r\n\r\nThis
    information has been up for a long time now, and still is relevant."
  created: '2010-04-03 12:23:31'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Arno, \r\n\r\n<code>\u201CDotlessi\u201D</code> and <code>\u201Cidotaccent\u201D</code>
    are not PDF-compatible glyphnames. They resolve to an unknown character. Instead
    of <code>\u201Cidotaccent\u201D</code>, Adobe recommends using <code>\u201Ci\u201D</code>
    with any suffix (after a dot), and FontLab recommends <code>\u201Ci.TRK\u201D</code>,
    specifically. \r\n\r\nI\u2019m not sure what you mean by \u201Csymmetry in glyphnames\u201D.
    Adobe and FontLab publish extensive guidelines on glyphname naming, and there
    is nothing in there about symmetry. The fact that the name <code>\u201CAacute\u201D</code>
    is used for the glyph which represents the Unicode character U+00C1 (\xC1, LATIN
    CAPITAL LETTER A WITH ACUTE), and <code>\u201Caacute\u201D</code> is used for
    U+00E1 (\xE1, LATIN SMALL LETTER A WITH ACUTE). \r\n\r\nAs it happens, <code>\u201CAacute\u201D</code>
    is the uppercase variant of <code>\u201Caacute\u201D</code> does not mean that
    all uppercase variants have the same glyphname as the lowercase letters except
    that the first letter of the glyphname is uppercase. The fact that it works for
    some glyphnames is just incidental. \r\n\r\nThe glyphname for the character U+01F5
    (\u01F5, LATIN SMALL LETTER G WITH ACUTE) is <code>\u201Cuni01F5\u201D</code>,
    but the glyphname for its uppercase counterpart, U+01F4 (\u01F4, LATIN CAPITAL
    LETTER G WITH ACUTE) is *not* <code>\u201CUni01F5\u201D</code> but is <code>\u201Cuni01F6\u201D</code>.
    \r\n\r\nThe glyphname <code>\u201CIdotaccent\u201D</code> is used for the character
    U+0130 (\u0130, LATIN CAPITAL LETTER I WITH DOT ABOVE), and the glyphname <code>\u201CI\u201D</code>
    is used for the character U+0049 (I, LATIN CAPITAL LETTER I). The lowercase variant
    for both of them is U+0069 (i, LATIN SMALL LETTER I). There is no LATIN SMALL
    LETTER I WITH DOT ABOVE in Unicode, and the name <code>\u201Cidotaccent\u201D</code>
    doesn\u2019t mean anything. It may look \u201Cpretty\u201D according to your symmetry
    rules, but it doesn\u2019t work. \r\n\r\nSame thing for <code>\u201Cdotlessi\u201D</code>.
    It\u2019s a glyphname for U+0131 (\u0131, LATIN SMALL LETTER DOTLESS I) but its
    uppercase counterpart is U+0049 (I, LATIN CAPITAL LETTER I). There is no LATIN
    CAPITAL LETTER DOTLESS I in Unicode, so there is no such thing as <code>\u201CDotlessi\u201D</code>.
    \r\n\r\nOf course everyone is cooking his own soup. But some people\u2019s soup
    may contribute to a stomach pain. Font developers are free to use invented, non-PDF-compatible
    glyphnames \u2014 but this will result in less usable fonts. PDFs produced with
    such glyphnames may not be searchable, and copy-paste may not work properly. \r\n\r\nWe
    at Fontlab Ltd. agree with Adobe that it\u2019s a good idea to duplicate the small
    cap glyphs, though we recommend naming the glyphs <code>\u201CA.c2sc\u201D</code>
    and <code>\u201Ca.smcp\u201D</code>, which makes clear what their purpose is.
    Since PDF applications often need to parsing glyphnames to recreate the original
    text string (when searching or copy-pasting), keeping separate glyphname prefixes
    for glyphs that semantically represent uppercase or lowercase letters allows better
    text accessibility. \r\n\r\nPDF readers will know that <code>\u201CA.c2sc\u201D</code>
    stands for a smallcap version of the <em>\u201CA\u201D</em> character, while <code>\u201Ca.smcp\u201D</code>
    stands for a smallcap version of the <em>\u201Ca\u201D</em> character. This way,
    copy-paste and searching will still work properly even if the text is set in smallcaps.
    \r\n\r\nThis is the code that I recommend using:  \r\n\r\n<code># This goes into
    the lower-right section of the FLS OpenType panel.</code>\r\n\r\n<code>languagesystem
    DFLT dflt;\r\nlanguagesystem latn dflt;\r\nlanguagesystem latn AZE;\r\nlanguagesystem
    latn TRK;</code>\r\n\r\n<code># This goes into the features list in the FLS OpenType
    panel.</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature locl {\r\nlanguage TRK;\r\nsub i by i.TRK;\r\nlanguage
    AZE;\r\n} locl;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature c2sc {\r\nsub I by I.c2sc;\r\nsub
    Idotaccent by Idotaccent.smcp;\r\n} c2sc;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature smcp {\r\nsub
    i by i.smcp;\r\nsub i.TRK by i.TRK.smcp;\r\nsub dotlessi by dotlessi.smcp;\r\n}
    smcp;</code>\r\n\r\nThis requires the following glyphs to be present in the font:
    <code>\u201CI\u201D</code>, <code>\u201CIdotaccent\u201D</code>, <code>\u201Ci\u201D</code>,
    <code>\u201Ci.TRK\u201D</code>, <code>\u201Cdotlessi\u201D</code>, <code>\u201CI.c2sc\u201D</code>,
    <code>\u201CIdotaccent.c2sc\u201D</code>, <code>\u201Ci.smcp\u201D</code>, <code>\u201Ci.TRK.smcp\u201D</code>,
    <code>\u201Cdotlessi.smcp\u201D</code>.\r\n\r\nThe feature code above presumes
    that the <code>\u201Clocl\u201D</code> lookups are written before the <code>\u201Csmcp\u201D</code>
    lookups. If you put <code>\u201Clocl\u201D</code> after <code>\u201Csmcp\u201D</code>,
    then the <code>\u201Clocl\u201D</code> would need to exchange the smallcap glyphs.
    But this makes less sense: the <code>\u201Clocl\u201D</code> lookup for Turkish
    should be defined early in the font because it should influence other features
    such as <code>\u201Cliga\u201D</code>. \r\n\r\nSure thing however, every font
    vendor is free to make fonts that don\u2019t work. ;)\r\n\r\nA.\r\n\r\nPs. I\u2019m
    including a link to the related discussion: \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/69063#comment-404694"
  created: '2010-04-03 12:26:23'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Adam\r\n\r\nWith regard to the names I begin to understand, but why do
    you recommend having small capitals two times in the font, alphabet.smcp and Alphabet.c2sc?\r\n\r\n<cite>Dotlessi
    and idotaccent are not PDF-compatible glyphnames</cite>\r\n\r\nBecause of the
    missing suffixes \u2013 would I.dotless and i.dotaccent work? Why is i.TRK PDF-compatible?
    What are \"meaningfully constructed glyph names\"? I will read that chapter of
    the FontLab manual.\r\n\r\nThanks."
  created: '2010-04-03 12:26:59'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Adam\r\n\r\n<cite>I thought I explained it already twice</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    am so shocked, that I could not imagine, that you also were regarding to the doubling
    of the whole alphabet, which I will not do for the OTF that I build, because \u2013
    compressing or not \u2013 somehow it is unaesthetic. Thanks for clarifying.\r\n\r\nHave
    as nice weekend, I must buy nourishments now. And later I must feed a rabbit (no
    joke)."
  created: '2010-04-03 13:10:10'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Arno, \r\n\r\n1. I thought I explained it already twice: \r\n\r\n<dd>PDF
    readers will know that <code>\u201CA.c2sc\u201D</code> stands for a smallcap version
    of the <em>\u201CA\u201D</em> character, while <code>\u201Ca.smcp\u201D</code>
    stands for a smallcap version of the <em>\u201Ca\u201D</em> character. This way,
    copy-paste and searching will still work properly even if the text is set in smallcaps.</dd>\r\n\r\nIn
    other words: if you want to preserve the case difference of the original text
    in the typeset PDF even if the text is set is smallcaps, you would duplicate the
    glyphs. Specifically: the searchability and copy-paste of the PDF will work the
    same regardless of whether the PDF was created with Unicode codepoints included
    or without them. \r\n\r\nIf you include just one set of smallcap glyphs, let\u2019s
    say <code>\u201CA.sc\u201D</code>, and use them in both the <code>\u201Csmcp\u201D</code>
    and <code>\u201Cc2sc\u201D</code> features, then copy-pasting smallcap text from
    one PDF may result in the text \u201CArno Enslin\u201D (if the Unicode codepoints
    were embedded in the PDF) while doing it from other PDFs (where the Unicode codepoints
    were not embedded) would produce \u201CARNO ENSLIN\u201D. \r\n\r\nDuplicating
    the smallcap glyphs is Adobe\u2019s practice, very sensible in my opinion. Using
    kerning classes and CFF subroutinization will cause the font be only minimally
    larger than if you don\u2019t duplicate them, but the functionality of the font
    will be more consistent. \r\n\r\nAdobe recommends including separate glyphs if
    the Unicode character information should be maintained separately. This also means
    that Adobe includes separate glyphs for U+002D (-, HYPHEN OR MINUS SIGN) called
    <code>\u201Chyphen\u201D</code> and for U+00AD (DISCRETIONARY HYPHEN) called <code>\u201Cuni00AD\u201D</code>,
    and also separate glyphs for U+2126 (\u2126, OHM SIGN) called <code>\u201COmega\u201D</code>
    and for U+03A9 (\u03A9, GREEK CAPITAL LETTER OMEGA) called <code>\u201Cuni03A9\u201D</code>.
    \r\n\r\nSome font vendors tend to assign multiple Unicode codepoints to one glyph
    if the glyph looks the same for several Unicode characters, and they use the same
    glyph in OpenType Layout features even if the underlying text character is different.
    This is a matter of policy and practice. At FontLab, we recommend following Adobe\u2019s
    policy because it has important technical reasons (which I detailed above) and
    results in fonts that behave more consistently and provide better functionality
    for the end-user \u2014 even if producing such fonts (with duplicated glyphs)
    is a bit more tedious. \r\n\r\n2. \u201CMeaningful\u201D glyphnames are glyphnames
    in which the basename (i.e. anything up to the optional suffix which is separate
    by a dot) can be resolved to a Unicode string. Each component of the basename
    (i.e. either a single portion or several portions separated by underscores in
    case of ligatures) should follow the Adobe glyphname conventions, i.e. they should
    either be in the Adobe Glyph List for New Fonts (AGLFN) or have a <code>\u201CuniXXXX\u201D</code>
    form for four-digit Unicodes and a <code>\u201CuXXXXX\u201D</code> form for five-digit
    Unicodes. This means that names such as <code>\u201Caacute\u201D</code>, <code>\u201Caacute.smcp\u201D</code>,
    <code>\u201Caacute.whatever\u201D</code>, <code>\u201Cs_t\u201D</code>, <code>\u201Csacute_t\u201D</code>
    or <code>\u201Cs_t.dlig\u201D</code> are all meaningful, but <code>\u201Caacutesmall\u201D</code>,
    <code>\u201Cst\u201D</code> or <code>\u201Csacutet\u201D</code> are not. \r\n\r\nPlease
    read the FontLab Studio manual chapter for more information as well as the Adobe
    document that I linked in my earlier post. \r\n\r\nI recommend reading the manual
    in general, anyway (not just the \u201DGlyph Naming and Character Encoding\u201D
    chapter), because it *does* include important information on various topics related
    to font development. \r\n\r\nThe suffix after the dot doesn't matter. <code>\u201Ci.TRK\u201D</code>
    and <code>\u201Ci.dotless\u201D</code> are equally meaningful. The advantage of
    using <code>\u201Ci.TRK\u201D</code> is that future FontLab applications such
    as Fontographer 5.1 will recognize this name and build the <code>\u201Clocl\u201D</code>
    OpenType Layout feature automatically. \r\n\r\nSimilarly, using <code>\u201CA.c2sc\u201D</code>
    and <code>\u201Ca.smcp\u201D</code> rather than, say, <code>\u201CA.sc\u201D</code>
    and <code>\u201Ca.sc\u201D</code> will allow Fontographer 5.1, TransType 4 and
    FontLab Studio 6 to build the <code>\u201Cc2sc\u201D</code> and <code>\u201Csmcp\u201D</code>
    features automatically since the suffix will indicate which OpenType Layout feature
    the glyph \u201Cbelongs to\u201D. \r\n\r\nBTW, the reason why the OHM SIGN and
    not GREEK CAPITAL LETTER OMEGA carries the glyphname <code>\u201COmega\u201D</code>
    is historical and clearly looks somewhat inconsistent. But it\u2019s just a glyphname,
    which, as I indicated, is primarily intended to allow the glyph being identified
    properly in the PostScript and PDF formats. This is why the glyphnames in an OpenType
    TT font is stored in the <code>\u201Cpost\u201D</code> table. Since glyphnames
    are for PostScript and PDF, they should primarily conform with recommendations
    developed by the creators of PostScript and PDF \u2014 which happens to be Adobe.
    \r\n\r\nFontLab\u2019s glyphname conventions and recommendations are compatible
    with Adobe\u2019s, but are a bit more specific: they provide additional guidance
    which will help font developers get additional functionality (i.e. automatic OpenType
    Layout generation in our upcoming applications). Since our applications will soon
    ship with an additional set of new encoding files, adhering to FontLab\u2019s
    conventions will allow developers to use those encodings. \r\n\r\nOf course, font
    developers can use different glyphname suffixes which are not compatible with
    FontLab\u2019s recommendations, as long as they follow Adobe\u2019s recommendations
    for glyph basenames. This will result in PDF-compatible glyphnames but may not
    leverage the full functionality in our new applications. \r\n"
  created: '2010-04-03 13:29:07'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Arno, \r\n\r\nthere are tons of aspects of the OpenType font format or the
    Unicode Standard which are \u201Csomehow unaesthetic\u201D. Both OpenType and
    Unicode are technical standards which try to make a compromise between the \u201Ctheoretical
    models\u201D of how text encoding and digital fonts could be made in an idealized
    world, and the \u201Cpragmatic technical implications\u201D which result from
    decades of software development. \r\n\r\nOutline font formats (OpenType), text
    encoding formats (Unicode), and printable file formats (PDF) have a long history.
    They originated years ago, in very limited environments. They usually emerged
    from older formats (OpenType from TrueType and Type 1, PDF from PostScript, Unicode
    from a variety of different text encoding standards). \r\n\r\nAll of those formats
    have the one or another \u201Coriginal sin\u201D which has been carried on over
    those decades. Some of them are \u201Cburied deep\u201D in the formats and can
    no longer be changed without breaking backwards compatibility. So we\u2019re stuck
    with them for good \u2014 at least until completely new, fresh formats emerge
    that are developed from scratch. Plus, well, there is no guarantee that the \u201Cnew
    fresh formats\u201D will be free of any problems. They may solve some problems
    for good, but they are likely to introduce other limitations that will become
    cumbersome in 20 years. \r\n\r\nIt\u2019s evolution. \r\n\r\nAs I said \u2014
    every font developer is free to make the fonts in any way they like. It\u2019s
    your discretion. I\u2019m trying to plot out the consequences for each choice
    a font developer makes, and I\u2019m recommending the solutions which I believe
    are beneficial for the end-users. But some aspects are, of course, less debatable
    than others. This particular aspect we\u2019re discussing is certainly one of
    the more debatable ones. There is no single clearly prescribed solution \u2014
    but there are good reasons to consider the consequences of doing it one way or
    another. "
  created: '2010-04-03 13:35:29'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Of course in the code sample in a few posts above: \r\n\r\n<code>sub Idotaccent
    by Idotaccent.smcp;</code>\r\n\r\nit should say: \r\n\r\n<code>sub Idotaccent
    by Idotaccent.c2sc;</code>\r\n\r\nSorry for the typo. \r\nAdam"
  created: '2010-04-03 13:39:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Adam: <em>If you include just one set of smallcap glyphs, let\u2019s say
    \u201CA.sc\u201D, and use them in both the \u201Csmcp\u201D and \u201Cc2sc\u201D
    features, then copy-pasting smallcap text from one PDF may result in the text
    \u201CArno Enslin\u201D (if the Unicode codepoints were embedded in the PDF) while
    doing it from other PDFs (where the Unicode codepoints were not embedded) would
    produce \u201CARNO ENSLIN\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nWhy is it not preferable to always
    use \"A.smcp\"-method glyphs in both c2sc and smcp features?\r\nIf text from a
    pdf file with small caps is then imported into an unsmart application which does
    not support small caps, or is set in an unsmart font which doesn't include small
    caps, then both \"c2sc\" and \"smcp\" features will result in ARNO ENSLIN, which
    is a best practice, IMO.\r\n\r\nIf a pdf document has text set in the \"smcp\"
    feature with \"a.smcp\" method, then importing its text into an \"unsmart\" document
    will result in the U&lc \"Arno Enslin\", which offers no distinction from normal
    U&lc setting, which is its likely environment. Surely the point of setting small
    caps mixed in with U&lc is to provide a meaningful distinction, which gets lost
    with fonts that have the \"smcp\" feature implemented with \"a.smcp\" glyphs! "
  created: '2010-04-06 18:45:51'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "These questions regarding search and copy-and-paste in/from PDFs apply to
    every PDF 'taste'? PDF X/1, X/3 or XML-structured does not handle this? Is there
    any option in PDF generation to avoid these problems?\r\n\r\nI'm developing a
    font with more than 2500 glyphs and <em>really</em> want to avoid duplexing a
    whole set of characters (due to language support, each group of lowercase, uppercase,
    small caps, petite caps and swashes goes over to 300 glyphs).\r\n\r\nAnother question:
    if text copied from a PDF loses Unicode information, glyphs built with combining
    diacritics will be come unreadable in the destination? The name (say uni01230a011e00)
    is enough to a smart applcation rebuild these complex glyphs with diacritics?\r\n\r\n(Actually,
    the search question seems more important to me as OT smart applications are <em>very</em>
    few by now)."
  created: '2010-04-06 22:33:29'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Freiberger, \r\n\r\nthere can be a /ToUnicode resource in the PDF which stores
    the true glyph-to-Unicode mapping, and there can be Tagged PDF structures that
    give a parallel true text contents. Thomas Merz of PDFlib explained this here:
    \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/2994#comment-140541\r\nand more recently, Adobe's
    Miguel Sousa talked about this: \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/34108#comment-304550\r\n\r\nBut
    the main point is that both PDF tags and the /ToUnicode resource are optional.
    There are and will be PDFs around that come without it, just with plain strings
    of glyphs in the page contents. For those, extracting the text contents from glyphnames
    is the only option. (For example, if /ToUnicode is missing, Acrobat will analyse
    the document add it when the document is resaved as PDF/X or when tags are added.
    That analysis is based on glyphnames).  \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2010-04-07 23:12:44'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@Nick:\r\n\r\nIf the underlying text should be all-caps, then the user should
    set it that way and apply c2sc. If the underlying text is upper-and-lowercase,
    as in say the opening line of a book, then the user should set it that way and
    apply smcp.\r\n\r\nThe idea that the font shouldn't change the underlying text
    is fairly basic to the character/glyph model of Unicode and OpenType. This principle
    that led to the ill-formed \"crcy\" and \"dpng\" features being deprecated and
    later dropped from the OpenType spec. What you are suggesting would be to go against
    that principle. Of course, you're welcome to do what you want in your own fonts,
    but in this case it's counter to the philosophy of the standards involved.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-04-08 00:04:49'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\nthe intention of electronic text is to preserve the characters
    that are input. If the Unicode codepoints are natively embedded in the PDF, then
    the application will recreate the input as it was done. If I input \"Arno Enslin\",
    apply smcp and c2sc, I will still get Arno Enslin back. If I input \"arno enslin\",
    I will get \"arno enslin\". If I input \"ARNO ENSLIN\", I will get \"ARNO ENSLIN\".
    \r\n\r\nIf the Unicode codepoints are not natively embedded and need to be recreated
    using glyphnames, you have two options: \r\n\r\n1. To still behave the same way
    as above, i.e. you get out what you put in. But this can be only done if you provide
    separate \"identities\" for the glyphs, i.e. dupe them as \"A.c2sc\" and \"a.smcp\".
    This approach will give you CONSISTENT behavior. \r\n\r\n2. To behave DIFFERENTLY,
    INCONSISTENTLY, i.e. no matter what you input (\"Arno Enslin\", \"arno enslin\",
    \"ARNO ENSLIN\", you'll always get \"ARNO ENSLIN\" back). This is what you get
    if you only put \"A.sc\" or \"A.smcp\" or whatever glyphs into the font. This
    approach means: in half the cases (where the Unicode codepoints have been natively
    embedded), you'll get one result, in other half of cases (where they need to be
    recreated using glyphnames), you'll get another result. In fact, you may get two
    different results using the same app depending on whether the OpenType font was
    PostScript- or TrueType-flavored. \r\n\r\nI for one am for predictable and consistent
    behavior for the user. Inconsistent behavior will result in user's confusion,
    uncertainty and disappointment. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-08 00:30:11'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Many thanks, Adam. So the best practice is to duplicate the small caps set
    as any workaround causes problems. Hope a font with almost 3,000 glyphs does not
    cause any performance issue.\r\n\r\nI know this is off-topic, but I cannot find
    the answer: after copy-and-append a set of glyphs in FLS5, how can I change the
    suffix of the whole set in an automatic way? Is this posible?"
  created: '2010-04-08 01:40:27'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "<cite> after copy-and-append a set of glyphs in FLS5, how can I change the
    suffix of the whole set in an automatic way? Is this posible? </cite>\r\n\r\ncommand
    click on the glyph.\r\nFrom the 'more' submenu choose 'add suffix to name' and
    check the first checkbox in the resulting dialog box.\r\n\r\nI recommend also
    checking the second box so you are presented with the dialog box by default when
    you append glyphs.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-04-08 01:46:35'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Great, Andr\xE9! Many thanks."
  created: '2010-04-08 01:59:28'
- author:
    name: andi aw masry
    picture: 115681
  body: "This thread is really enlightening. Thank you.\r\n\r\nBy the way, I've read
    an explanation of the [[http://www.adobe.com/devnet/opentype/archives/glyph.html
    | Adobe Glyph]] and some info related. I understand haphazardly as follows:\r\n<ol>\r\n<li>
    That all the glyphs should be mapped back into the map table and encoding based
    AGL AGLFN last ver for OT fonts today.</li>\r\n<li> PDF is a sort of \"catalyst\"
    to determine the quality of an OT font, so the naming and coding of glyphs absolutely
    must meet the standards on above (number 1).</li>\r\n<li> Glyphs which included
    into the range as wide as any, remain to be defined into unicode which will only
    lead to - at least - 31 characters. So I tried to make an example of naming \"A\"
    glyphs an the related alternate, as follows:</li>\r\n</ol>\r\n\r\n0x0041 !A.alt1\r\n0x0041
    !A.alt2\r\n0x0041 !A.alt3\r\n0x0041 !A.medi1\r\n0x0041 !A.medi2\r\n0x0041 !A.ss01\r\n0x0041
    !A.ss02\r\n0x0041 A\r\n\r\nWill they be defined as \"A\" and the glyphs variant
    of ?\r\n\r\nPlease verify and explanation, if I've being lost? :-) Thanks\r\n\r\nBest
    regards\r\nAndi"
  created: '2011-07-08 07:06:24'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Andi,\r\n\r\nno, this portion of .nam will cause that A.ss01 will get the
    Unicode U+0041 if you do \"Generate Unicode\", and A will also get that Unicode,
    and you'll get conflicts. In a font, only one glyph should exist out of those
    which have the same Unicode in a .nam file. Basically, what you're showing is
    that if your font has A.ss01 and no A, and you'll do \"Generate Unicode\" and
    then \"Generate Names\", then your A.ss01 will be renamed to A. Which I don't
    think is what you want. \r\n\r\nDo not put any glyphs that should be accessed
    through OpenType Layout features into the .nam file. The .nam file specifies glyphnames
    that should have Unicodes, and glyphs that have Unicodes are accessible directly
    through the \"cmap\" table, without OpenType Layout. \r\n\r\nAll glyphs that are
    accessible though OpenType Layout features should only be specified in the OpenType
    Layout feature definitions (OpenType panel and perhaps Classes panel). \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-09 02:50:45'
- author:
    name: andi aw masry
    picture: 115681
  body: "Thanks Adam, it really opened my horizons\r\n\r\nAfter testing generated,
    indeed this way it produces .NULL on alternate ss01 (opened via indesign). Does
    that mean any alternates glyphs to be accessed via OTLF its codepoint should be
    blank? \r\n\r\nAt this time, my understanding of your explanation is A.ss01 not
    require codepoint, and let the features OTLF do the rest. In other words, alternate
    glyphs do not need to be placed inside .NAM file and will be accessible via OTLF,
    despite having no codepoint. Is this true?\r\n\r\nWould you be more specific in
    the handling of codepoint -- for instance -- A.alt, A.ss01, A.medi, A.fina ....
    and also how about f_j, f_j.alt1, f_j.alt2 ? \r\n\r\nThis is to ensure that I
    was on the right path :-)\r\n\r\nYour explanation certainly will make this problem
    does not drag on. (I found a similar problem on many threads on this site)\r\n\r\nThanks
    in advance\r\nBest regards"
  created: '2011-07-09 18:57:37'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> At this time, my understanding of your explanation is A.ss01 not require
    \r\n> codepoint, and let the features OTLF do the rest. In other words, \r\n>
    alternate glyphs do not need to be placed inside .NAM file and will \r\n> be accessible
    via OTLF, despite having no codepoint. Is this true?\r\n\r\nYes. The typesetting
    process, when OpenType Layout is involved, works like the following: \r\n\r\n1.
    The application has a Unicode text string, i.e. a series of Unicode codepoints
    \u2014 the entire text of a document, or a text thread or frame. The application
    splits the text string into \"text runs\", i.e. a series of Unicode codepoints
    which belong to the same writing system (script), have the same directionality
    (LTR or RTL), and should be rendered using the same font and size. So an English
    word inserted into Arabic text would be put into a separate text run, and also
    a word set in italic font within text set in a roman font would be put into a
    separate text run. \r\n\r\n2. For every text run, the application looks up the
    font which should be used, and reads its \"cmap\" table, which contains a mapping
    of Unicode codepoints to the \"default glyphs\" for each codepoint. Therefore,
    each Unicode codepoint which your font supports must have one default glyph \u2014
    and that's the glyph which you assign the Unicode codepoint to. So you'd have
    Unicode codepoints assigned to \"A\", \"f\", \"j\" etc. \r\n\r\n3. The application
    stores the glyph ID (the numerical index of a glyph, visible in FLS in the Index
    mode of the Font Window) of the default glyphs for every codepoint in the text
    run. In other words, a text run is internally \"replaced\" by a glyph ID run.
    At this point, the Unicode codepoint no longer matter. Everything from now on
    is performed on glyph IDs. (So obviously, each glyph in your font has a glyph
    ID \u2014 but there is no way for it not to have it. All glyphs in a font are
    just a list, and the first glyph in the list has the ID 0, the second glyph has
    the ID 1 etc.) \r\n\r\n4. The application reads the font's \"GSUB\" table, and
    replaces the default glyphs' IDs with the glyph IDs of the alternate glyphs \u2014
    depending on which OpenType Layout features are applied to the glyph ID run (Those
    features can be either specified by the user, such as \"liga\" or \"smcp\" or
    \"ss01\", or they can be demanded by the script shaping engine, such as \"init\",
    \"medi\", \"fina\" or \"isol\" for Arabic). So if the \"ss01\" feature is applied,
    and the font's GSUB table specifies that the glyph \"A\" (with a certain glyph
    ID) is to be replaced by the glyph \"A.ss01\" (with a different glyph ID), then
    those glyph IDs are replaced. In some cases, multiple glyphs are replaced by one
    glyph (e.g. if \"liga\" is applied, the glyphs \"f\" and \"j\" are replaced by
    the glyph \"f_j\" \u2014 again, we're using glyph names here for human-readability,
    but in the process actually the numerical glyph IDs are used). \r\n\r\n5. For
    every feature that should apply to the glyph ID run, and every lookup specified
    in the \"GSUB\" table, the replacements are being performed again and again until
    a final glyph ID run is produced (so at some point, if the user has specified
    both \"liga\" and \"ss01\", then first \"f\" \"j\" are replaced by \"f_j\", and
    in a later lookup, \"f_j\" is replaced by \"f_j.ss01\" \u2014 this process is
    iterative). Again: in all this, the app only tracks the glyph IDs. Unicode codepoints
    no longer matter at this point, they only matter at the beginning. And the glyph
    names actually don't matter at all \u2014 they're only there for font developers
    to make the glyphs a bit more \"accessible\". Well, actually, the glyph names
    are also used by some PDF readers to reconstruct the Unicode codepoints of a glyph
    ID run once it has been exported to PDF, but that's a totally different story.
    \r\n\r\n6. Typically, the application keeps track somehow of the mapping between
    the original Unicode text run and the final glyph ID run in order to enable the
    user to use the text cursor, perform text selection etc. But if the application
    is not interactive (e.g. it's a server app that generates PNGs or PDFs), this
    doesn't necessarily happen. \r\n\r\n7. At this stage, the application needs to
    know not only the glyph IDs but also the sizes of the \"box\" in which each glyph
    will be placed, measured in font units. The height of the box is determined by
    the font's linespacing values (ascender and descender in the \"hhea\" or \"OS/2\"
    table, depending on the OS and app), and the width is the distance between the
    left and right sidebearing. So these are \"metric boxes\", not \"bounding boxes\"
    (which are determined by the actual glyph's outlines). At this stage, the app
    does not need to know anything about the glyphs' outlines at all. The application
    reads the font's \"GPOS\" table, and adjusts the positioning of each glyph in
    the final glyph ID run accordingly (using the \"kern\", \"mark\", \"mkmk\" and
    other features). In other words, the application \"moves around\" those boxes.
    \r\n\r\n8. After the \"moving around\" of the boxes has happened, the application
    knows the final width of the entire box that encompasses the glyph ID run. It
    scales each \"glyph ID run box\" to the point size in which the glyph ID run will
    be rendered, and then glues together all the processed glyph ID runs until the
    width of the text frame or page is reached, and then breaks the line if necessary.
    In this case, it will often need to perform the whole above process again (or
    even several times), because it needs to insert some hyphens if there's hyphenation,
    or it needs change the way contextual alternates work (because now the text run
    is truncated to a certain line length). Linebreaking is performed differently
    by different applications: e.g. in InDesign the \"single-line composer\" basically
    just breaks each line at the point where the next glyph would not fit into the
    frame width, and then, if the text is set to be full-justified, it stretches the
    word spaces to fill up the entire width of the frame, but the \"paragraph composer\"
    makes several (approximately 7-8) different approaches on how to distribute the
    space, and chooses the \"most optimal\" version according to some internal criteria.
    In this process, depending on the app and the linebreaking algorithm, the entire
    process described above is performed several or even many times. The more lookups,
    especially contextual lookups, the font uses, the longer the process takes. But
    in general, this process is very fast on today's computers. \r\n\r\n9. Only after
    the app has a final set of glyph IDs, their \"boxes\" and their positions for
    a given line, it calls the rasterizer which reads the font's \"CFF\" or \"glyf\"
    table and \"paints\" the glyph images into the boxes, at the given point size.
    So only at this final stage, the actual glyph outlines come into place. \r\n\r\nSo,
    that's the entire \"typesetting process using OpenType Layout features\" in a
    nutshell. The steps 1-8 describe the process of \"line layout and linebreaking\",
    and step 9 describes \"rendering\" or \"rasterization\". As you may have notices,
    the actual line layout and linebreaking is actually a much more complex process
    from the rendering or rasterization itself. Of course in real life, those processes
    interact a bit, because, for example, TrueType hinting programs can modify the
    width of the glyphs (and the width is needed to determine the size of the \"boxes\"),
    so in reality, the rasterization of the glyphs may happen earlier. But conceptually,
    those processes are separate. \r\n\r\nA more extensive description of the process
    has been written by John Hudson: <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/Glyph%20Processing/intro.mspx\"><strong>Windows
    Glyph Processing: an OpenType Primer</strong></a>. \r\n\r\nI hope this is helpful.
    \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-10 14:44:21'
- author:
    name: andi aw masry
    picture: 115681
  body: "Thanks Adam, for the philosophical explanation and your time. You really
    took us wandered (banc) into a \"The typesetting process\". Of course this is
    a very valuable lesson. (I beg permission to publish the translated version on
    our website sometime in the future). A lesson best will always come from the best
    teachers.\r\n\r\nAlthough I can say that I now understand what you explain word
    by word, but I am ashamed to say that I've fully understood in its application.
    Proved with the a dizzying following cases:\r\n\r\nIn case of revision of a font,
    a change commonly done by moving the entire codepoint of glyph alternates from
    the PUA to blank. The result is a font OT-PS which was normal in the running  text,
    especially on the Adobe InDesign application. It also runs (partly) in MSWord
    2010, but  the OT is not supported at all on the Corel Draw application.\r\n\r\nThe
    entire script OTLF work well on text runs. But the gaffe occurred when \"insert
    glyph\" is performed (InDesign). I can show a little description:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/enc01_4445.jpg]\r\n\r\n<ol>\r\n<li>Some
    alternates glyphs get the right reference from the main glyph codepoint assigned,
    while others not at all, for example on the frame of the InDesign user interface,
    the GID 644 reads as the Null. But if the \"Insert glyph\" is applied it will
    produce the appropriate glyph, although it is .Null. \r\n\r\nConversely, the GID
    617 are referenced from the ligature f_f (0066 + 0066), but if the \"Insert glyph\"
    is applied it will produce inaccurate glyphs. Application of this yields only
    f + f (normal) and not ligature alternate as the proper purpose.</li>\r\n\r\n<li>In
    other cases, the scenario of naming glyphs like this: L, L.alt1, L.alt2, L.end1.
    L.end2 L.sso1, L.ss02. But strangely, L.end2 and L.ss02 referenced as the Null.
    However OTLF in applications has gone well. Does this indicating a laying false
    \ OTLF's script?\r\n\r\nI've tried to track down this problem by trying to put
    the script OTLF into best possible place as is ligature into the LIGA and  contextual
    ligature into CLIG. Although a ligature tags it turn out can also be placed inside
    sso1 (Because it is work well?). But the result remains the same, some glyphs
    as NULL. So temporary conclusion, not the source of the problem are OTLF script.
    Can you tell me something that I do not know in this case?</li>\r\n<li>Actually,
    it has been done \"sort glyphs by index\" before generating the font. But the
    case no. 1 and 2 may shows that the process had no relation at all with the order
    and position in the glyph index.</li>\r\n</ol>\r\n\r\nthanks\r\nTake a great weekend\r\nBest
    Regards\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-23 10:49:13'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "This alternate ligature bit seems to be a bug in InDesign. \r\n\r\nI've been
    working on a font that has alternate forms for the \"f\" ligatures. If the alternate
    ligature is inserted using the Glyph palette, the result is individual glyphs
    (in some cases, alternate forms of the \"f\" or \"l\", which are also present
    in the font). If I select the incorrect glyphs and look at the OpenType popup
    menu, ligatures will have been disabled. If I re-enable it, the proper alternate
    ligature is displayed.\r\n\r\nIt seems that inserting an alternate ligature (or
    alternate discretionary ligature) causes InDesign to disable ligatures (and/or
    discretionary ligatures). I haven't done extensive testing in other apps, but
    the alternate ligatures work correctly in other apps so far, such as Illustrator
    and QuarkXPress. I've tried everything I can think of to rewrite the OT features
    to get it to work properly in InDesign with no success. Adobe fonts, such as Poetica,
    are similarly affected.\r\n\r\nGiven all that, I can only conclude that it's a
    bug in InDesign and it's not possible to fix it in feature code. I'm not looking
    forward to writing instructions for users on how to work around it. It may be
    that the best solution is to abandon single-glyph ligatures in favor of contextual
    alternates."
  created: '2011-07-23 16:44:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Thanks, Mark!
  created: '2011-07-23 17:10:34'
- author:
    name: andi aw masry
    picture: 115681
  body: "Thanks <strong>Mark</strong>, <em>I was not feel alone</em> :) \r\n\r\nIf
    it's a bug may indeed be prudent with your solution. But this is certainly not
    reducing our efforts to find the best solution in the future.\r\n\r\n<strong>@Dezzcom</strong>,
    Thanks for letting me write in your thread.\r\n\r\nBest regards"
  created: '2011-07-24 14:21:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: No problem, Andi, t would have been Threadbare lately without you ;-)
  created: '2011-07-24 16:19:02'
date: '2006-11-13 20:22:44'
title: Opentype features take a vacation with one font using FL5 Mac

---
