---
author:
  name: free_tibet
body: "Good afternoon.\r\nHas read on your site that you can help convert a font.\r\nWhether
  can you transfer OpenType a font for InDesign in a format\r\nFor Word? In a font
  250 substitutions <liga> are used.\r\nThe font is made in FontLab. We are tried
  to transfer font file in VOLT-\r\nANY of ligatures does not work. Have tried all
  helps and examples \r\nDoes not help. The font Tibetan and very much is necessary
  for all of us.\r\nWe shall be grateful for any help.\r\n\r\nabout font \r\nhttp://www.buddism.ru/DHARMA_text/_Yagpo/\r\nfont
  file \r\nhttp://www.buddism.ru//DHARMA_text/_Yagpo/Yagpo!_5.3.ttf\r\nwww.buddism.ru\r\nfree_tibet@mail.ru\r\nAlexander"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Your font appears to have a hack encoding - ie you map charatcters to the
    positions of basic latin code-points. I suppose you need this hack for InDesign,
    but this isn't going to work in Word. \r\n\r\nYour font compared to the Microsoft
    Himalaya in Vista...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Capture_3500.JPG]\r\n\r\nI
    know the letter d, I work with the letter d, letter d is a friend of mine, but
    you Yagpo!_Wylie letter d are no letter d ;-) "
  created: '2006-11-14 16:21:36'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Alexander,\r\nHere are a couple of resources that might be useful.\r\nhttp://www.xenotypetech.com/\r\nhttp://www.thdl.org/\r\n\r\nSimon,\r\n>
    <em>I suppose you need this hack for InDesign</em>\r\n\r\nDon't know what makes
    you believe that, but I'm glad to say your supposition is far from the truth.
    InDesign is fully Unicode compliant, so there's no reason for hacks. It's true
    that its text engine might not have all the shaping rules necessary for Tibetan
    (does Uniscribe?), but having a Unicode encoded Tibetan font and a proper keyboard
    layout, is all you need to do some Tibetan typesetting in InDesign."
  created: '2006-11-15 10:40:18'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "This font is indeed a hack, because it is using Latin characters to represent
    Tibetan. It will work in NotePad and InDesign. But why is it done this way? Because
    there were legacy texts from pre-Unicode era or because InDesign does not support
    non-simple scripts?\r\n\r\n<cite>InDesign is fully Unicode compliant, so there\u2019s
    no reason for hacks. It\u2019s true that its text engine might not have all the
    shaping rules necessary for Tibetan (does Uniscribe?), </cite>\r\n\r\nWhat exactly
    \"Unicode compliance\" is in your understanding? It is not the same as OpenType
    compliance, if people need hacks like that. I just do not know, do you execute
    OpenType features for Tibetan characters with Tibetan script tag?\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-15 18:09:28'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>What exactly \u201CUnicode compliance\u201D is in your understanding?</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    can mean a lot of things. In this case I was alluding to the fact that InDesign
    is aware of all the necessary Unicode codepoints. This means that the font can
    use the codepoints that Unicode defined for Tibetan. There's no need for hacking
    it to use the first 256 codepoints that are assigned to Latin. People had to do
    that in the pre-Unicode era.\r\n\r\n> <em>It is not the same as OpenType compliance</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    I know that. I didn't mention OpenType, you did.\r\n\r\n> <em>, if people need
    hacks like that.</em>\r\n\r\nAlexander never explicitly said that he's hacking
    his font to overcome an InDesign flaw. And what I said in my previous post was
    that, if he definitely needs to hack his font, that shouldn't be because of InDesign
    (since InDesign can perfectly use a properly encoded Tibetan font).\r\n\r\n> <em>I
    just do not know, do you execute OpenType features for Tibetan characters with
    Tibetan script tag?</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think so. That's what I meant when I said
    <em>\"It\u2019s true that its text engine might not have all the shaping rules
    necessary for Tibetan\"</em>\r\n\r\nSergey, have you tried to use InDesign? If
    so, which version?"
  created: '2006-11-15 20:26:05'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> InDesign is fully Unicode compliant\r\n\r\nMiguel, \r\n\r\nI think this
    is a statement that is a bit overly optimistic, or at least imprecise. InDesign
    supports the Unicode character repertoire but there are many aspects of the Unicode
    Standard that InDesign does not entirely support, for example the bidi algorithm
    (UAX #9), the normalization forms (UAX #15) or some aspects of the case conversion.
    While InDesign is an excellent product, I do hope that its Unicode support will
    continue to improve. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-15 22:24:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Don\u2019t know what makes you believe that, but I\u2019m glad to say your
    supposition is far from the truth. \r\n\r\nOh a challenge! Bring it on! Show me
    a paragraph of properly formed Unicode Tibetan text in InDesign and I'll wear
    an I Love Adobe T-shirt for two days at TypeCon - fail and you wear the I love
    Microsoft shirt - deal? :-) "
  created: '2006-11-16 03:32:34'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>I think this is a statement that is a bit overly optimistic, or at
    least imprecise.</em>\r\n\r\nAdam,\r\nYes, point well taken.\r\n\r\n\r\nSimon,\r\nWhich
    part of my posts didn't you understand? At this point it should be clear to everyone
    that it is NOT necessary to hack a font in order to access the Tibetan Unicode
    block in InDesign, as you seem to be alluding to when you say:\r\n\r\n<cite>Your
    font appears to have a hack encoding - ie you map charatcters to the positions
    of basic latin code-points. I suppose you need this hack for InDesign, but this
    isn\u2019t going to work in Word.</cite>\r\n\r\nGot it?"
  created: '2006-11-16 04:17:09'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "If you can't do Tibetan in InDesign just admit it. It's not a big deal. Tibetan
    is hard. \r\n\r\nI did say 'suppose' and I'd love you to prove me wrong. We have
    packaging guys using InDesign who have to resort to hacks like this to produce
    Hindi and other complex scripts. "
  created: '2006-11-16 04:29:13'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> We have packaging guys using InDesign \r\n> who have to resort to hacks
    like this \r\n> to produce Hindi and other complex \r\n> scripts.\r\n\r\nWhy doesn\u2019t
    Microsoft produce a plugin for InDesign that renders some text into a desired
    column width using RichEdit (i.e. Uniscribe), and then converts the result into
    outlines and passes it back to Indy as a graphic object? Something a la the DecoType
    OLE server that ships with the Arabic versions of Office, buz allowing the user
    to set some lines or even a few paragraphs of text? \r\n\r\nOr, why doesn\u2019t
    someone else do it? It should actually be relatively trivial ;)\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-16 04:56:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'The workflow is quite complex, but that might be worth looking into. Know
    any good InDesign plugin writers who might be able to pull this off? The other
    suggestion which seems to work well for one-offs is to do the text in Publisher
    and export it as a PDF that can be placed in the Indy doc. '
  created: '2006-11-16 05:28:13'
- author:
    name: jodb
    picture: 109555
  body: "The main issue with typesetting a Tibetan font is that there does not exist
    a uniform keyboard layout (palette) that can be installed on your computer. I
    suggest that this should get the first priority in the digital development of
    typesetting Tibetan. \r\n\r\nEach Tibetan font uses their own methodology in mapping
    the Tibetan characters to the Latin ones on the keyboard (phonetically or QWERTY-method),
    and special software (such as Wylie) was developped to convert the transliterated
    text into Tibetan. This means that the user of this software (i.e. Wylie) first
    inputs the text in Latin characters. The whole text is afterwards converted in
    the Tibetan font, embedded in the software.\r\n\r\nThe Tibetan Unicode chart only
    relates to the base characters, vowel signs, diacritical marks, some of the subscripted
    characters and punctuation signs (and a few unnecessary symbols). \r\nHowever,
    the Tibetan conjuncts (the 'ligatures' that Alexander was referring to) do not
    have an indivual Unicode number (although some of the 'half forms' do). Each font
    developer has to use his/her own creativity in organizing these stackings of the
    Tibetan consonants to form the 'ligatures' within their fonts and the OpenType
    features provide reasonable solutions for achieving this. \r\n\r\nI have not yet
    studied Vista, nor Microsoft Himalaya, so I can not provide info on which keyboard
    layout or input system is used with this font.\r\n\r\nAlexander, I was wondering
    whether you created the OpenType features in Fontlab or in VOLT. When you import
    your .vfb file into VOLT, then all embedded OpenType features will be lost and
    you need to create them all over again in VOLT."
  children:
  - author:
      name: cfynn
      picture: 112122
    body: "Jo\r\n\r\nYou can create all OT features needed for Tibetan in VOLT. Fontlab
      currently does not support creation of one to many lookups (decomposition) required
      under ccmp feature necessary to handle characters U+0F73, U+0F76, U+0F77, U+0F78,
      U+0F79, and U+0F81. \r\n\r\nUnlike with previous <em>\"un-intelligent\"</em>
      Tibetan fonts with non-standard glyph based encodings which did require <em>\"smart\"</em>
      input methods designed to work with particular fonts - a keyboard or input method
      for Unicode Tibetan only has to generate the simple base Unicode Tibetan characters
      as the complex conjuncts or ligatures are formed by the OpenType rendering engine
      applying the OpenType lookups in the font to get from the underlying simple
      basic characters to the conjunct glyphs. In other words, since the <em>\"smarts\"</em>
      are now built into the font (giving the type designer far more flexibility)
      they are no longer required in the input method. \r\n\r\nIf you want to use
      a Wylie (transliterated Tibetan) input method to enter Unicode Tibetan in Windows
      see: <a href=\"http://www.thdl.org/tools/tise.html\" >TISE: Tibetan Wylie Input
      Utility</a> - also available at: http://byak.sinp.msu.ru/tise/. This type of
      input method does still require some built in <em>\"smarts\"</em> - since you
      are going from one script to another and there is not a straightforward one-to-one
      relationship between the characters typed and the Unicode Tibetan characters
      that need to be generated.\r\n\r\nAn example of a simple one-to-one keyboard
      for Tibetan script is the  <a href=\"http://www.thdl.org/tools/dzkeylayout.html\">Dzongkha
      Keyboard </a> layout.  \r\n\r\nAny properly made OpenType font for Tibetan script
      should work fine to render Unicode Tibetan text entered using either of these
      input methods.   \r\n\r\n\r\n- Chris \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-01-10 16:27:15'
  created: '2006-11-16 08:09:18'
- author:
    name: cfynn
    picture: 112122
  body: "In order to support Tibetan OpenType fonts a rendering engine or application
    needs to support and apply the following OpenType features for Tibetan script:
    ccmp, blws, abvs, blwm, abvm, calt, and kern.\r\n\r\n(These are the features used
    in Microsoft's \"Himalaya\" font and in several other OpenType fonts for Tibetan
    script).\r\n\r\nInDesign and other Adobe applications currently *do not* support
    these features for Tibetan script. Without that support you may be able to enter
    glyphs for basic Tibetan characters but the complex conjunct stacks (ligatures)
    absolutely necessary for proper rendering of Tibetan will not be formed.\r\n\r\nMicrosoft's
    Uniscribe does support these features - and Unicode Tibetan has worked pretty
    well for several years in MS Word & MS Publisher - and in IE, Notepad, OpenOffice
    2.x, Firefox,  Thuderbird and a number of other applications if you properly install
    the Uniscribe (usp10.dll) that comes with the most recent service pack for Office
    2003 in  \\Windows\\System32\\ directory.\r\n\r\nThe main drawback in Word was
    that Tibetan line wrapping was not implemented. This meant that you sometimes
    had to insert manual line breaks in order to get lines of Tibetan text to wrap
    at the proper place. I expect this has been properly implemented in Word 2007.
    \r\n\r\nTibetan line wrapping and even Tibetan collation (sorting) work fine in
    OpenOffice 2.x\r\n\r\nOn Windows XP I have very successfully entered and formatted
    several large volumes of pecha (traditionally formatted Tibetan books) using both
    Word 2003 and OpenOffice with Unicode Tibetan and OpenType fonts.\r\n\r\nOn Linux
    operating system Pango (used by GTK) and ICU have partial support for OpenType
    Tibetan script fonts. The main thing missing is proper support for ccmp feature.
    Lack of support for this feature causes  problems if characters U+0F73, U+0F76,
    U+0F77, U+0F78, U+0F79, and U+0F81 are encountered as these need decomposing before
    any other OpenType lookups are applied. Lack of support for ccmp may also cause
    problems with characters U+0F43, U+0F4D, U+0F52, U+0F57, U+0F5C, U+0F69, U+0F93,
    U+0F9D, U+0FA2, U+0FA7, U+0FAC, and U+0FB9 as most    OT Tibetan fonts either
    decompose or compose these in a lookup under ccmp in order to simplify later lookups.\r\n\r\n(Without
    support for ccmp but support for the rest of the features everyday Tibetan and
    Dzongkha renders OK since all of the above characters are not normally found in
    common everyday words. These characters are mostly used in Tibetan transliteration
    of Sanskrit words.)\r\n\r\nThere *are* standard keyboard layouts for Tibetan script.
    One is the layout approved by the Government of Bhutan. A example of this layout
    can be found at:   http://www.thdl.org/tools/dzkeylayout.html. This layout is
    implemented in XFree86 and can easily be implemented in Windows using MSKLC.\r\n\r\nI
    understand Windows Vista also comes with a Tibetan keyboard layout approved by
    the Chinese Government.\r\n\r\n- Chris \r\n\r\n            [img:sites/default/files/old-images/OO-pecha_5995.jpg]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Harbs
      picture: 112365
    body: "Cris wrote:\r\n\r\n<cite>In order to support Tibetan OpenType fonts a rendering
      engine or application needs to support and apply the following OpenType features
      for Tibetan script: ccmp, blws, abvs, blwm, abvm, calt, and kern.</cite>\r\n\r\nForgive
      my ignorance of Indic scripts, but why can't you use ccmp instead of abvs and
      blws, and mark/mkmk instead of abvm and blwm?\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nHarbs\r\n"
    children:
    - author:
        name: cfynn
        picture: 112122
      body: "Harbs wrote:\r\n\r\n<em>Forgive my ignorance of Indic scripts, but why
        can\u2019t you use ccmp instead of abvs and blws, and mark/mkmk instead of
        abvm and blwm?</em>\r\n\r\nYou can use ccmp - though its generally cleaner
        to use all three substitution lookups:  ccmp, blws, abvs - and maybe calt
        if you need to substitute contextual forms.\r\n\r\nmark/mkmk will not be applied
        to Tibetan text by most OpenType shaping engines. Generally only a specific
        sub-set of OpenType features is applied for each particular script. \r\n\r\n-
        Chris    "
      created: '2007-04-03 15:38:35'
    created: '2007-03-22 12:59:45'
  created: '2007-01-10 15:30:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Thanks Chris, great write up! \r\n\r\n>InDesign and other Adobe applications
    currently *do not* support these features for Tibetan script ... the complex conjunct
    stacks (ligatures) absolutely necessary for proper rendering of Tibetan will not
    be formed.\r\n\r\nMiguel, the \"I love Microsoft\" shirt is in the mail. If you're
    not coming to TypeCon you can post a picture of yourself wearing it here. ;-)\r\n\r\n "
  children:
  - author:
      name: cfynn
      picture: 112122
    body: "OpenOffice.org Writer works well for Tibetan script. \r\n<ul><li>Word-breaks
      / line wraps occur in the proper place - not in the middle of a syllable</li>\r\n<li>Lists
      of Dzongkha or Tibetan words can be sorted correctly (no mean feat as the collation
      rules for these languages are exeedingly complex)</li>\r\n<li>Switching between
      Tibetan script and Roman fonts is automatic - depending on characters typed.</li>\r\n<li>Tibetan
      digits can be used in calculations, page numbering, numbered lists & headings,
      dates, etc.</li>\r\n</ul>\r\nNone of these things worked in Office 2003 - though
      I'm told they  are fixed in Office 2007  \r\n\r\nsee: <a href=\"https://collab.itc.virginia.edu/access/wiki/site/26a34146-33a6-48ce-001e-f16ce7908a6a/openoffice%20writer.html\">How
      to use Unicode Tibetan in OpenOffice.org Writer</a>"
    created: '2007-04-03 15:28:28'
  created: '2007-01-11 04:27:47'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Si, you surgically removed an important part of the quote:\r\n\r\n<cite>InDesign
    and other Adobe applications currently *do not* support these features for Tibetan
    script. Without that support <strong>you may be able to enter glyphs for basic
    Tibetan characters</strong> but the complex conjunct stacks (ligatures) absolutely
    necessary for proper rendering of Tibetan will not be formed.</cite>\r\n\r\nTherefore,
    what I said before still holds true: the encoding of the font doesn't need to
    be hacked, and InDesign doesn't yet support the necessary OpenType instructions
    to fully handle Tibetan.\r\n\r\n> <em>the \u201CI love Microsoft\u201D shirt is
    in the mail</em>\r\n\r\nI'm waiting to see that... It better NOT be set in Comic
    Sans!!"
  children:
  - author:
      name: cfynn
      picture: 112122
    body: "Miguel \r\n\r\nWhile you may be able to enter the basic Tibetan characters,
      since complex conjuncts are very frequent in Tibetan, for anything useful or
      readable in Tibetan an application such as InDesign needs to have OpenType shaping
      support for the Tbetan script. \r\n\r\n- C"
    created: '2015-03-15 10:13:22'
  created: '2007-01-11 11:31:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: So according to Adobe you support a language even if the parts that are "absolutely
    necessary" are not supported? In all seriousness I think this is the reason why
    customers get frustrated by companies claims that they fully support Unicode when
    that "full support" does not allow them to set their language.
  created: '2007-01-11 14:23:28'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Si, \r\n\r\nthis is why I prefer to say that an application supports the
    Unicode character set, rather than saying it supports \u201CUnicode\u201D. The
    latter is an ambiguous expression, people may read different things under that
    label. \r\n\r\nAn even more difficult question is when it comes to \u201COpenType
    support\u201D. Being able to render fonts in both OpenType flavors at all, being
    able to enter and display the full encoded character sets, or the full glyph repertoires
    in OpenType fonts, supporting some or all advanced typographic layout features
    for some or all scripts and languages, supporting the layout features necessary
    to correctly render some languages including directional support, supporting different
    GSUB and GPOS lookup types -- all this are different \u201Cshades\u201D of possible
    OpenType support. \r\n\r\nUnfortunately, the makers of the OpenType font format
    do not seem to be interested in documenting this publicly, which leaves us with
    obviously incomplete resources maintained by interested 3rd parties, such as the
    <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/info/opentype/\">MyFonts OpenType</a> page (authored
    by Laurence and myself) or the <a href=\"http://www.typotheque.com/fonts/opentype_feature_support/\">Typotheque
    OpenType</a> created by Peter Bi\u013Eak. \r\n\r\nRegards, \r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-17 15:58:48'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "BTW, a Microsoft veteran Raymond Chen wrote an excellent posting about the
    ambiguity of the word \u201Csupport\u201D: \r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://blogs.msdn.com/oldnewthing/archive/2005/11/18/494442.aspx\">http://blogs.msdn.com/oldnewthing/archive/2005/11/18/494442.aspx</a>\r\n\r\nMy
    favorite incarnation of the blurry meaning of the word \u201Csupport\u201D in
    the OpenType domain is the quotation from the OpenType specification: <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/OpenType/OTSpec/kern.htm\">\u201COpenType\u2122
    fonts containing CFF outlines are not supported by the \u2018kern\u2019 table\u201D</a>.
    It is a liguistic equivalent to the acrobatic splits, trying to say that while
    the makers of the OpenType specification do not \u201Clike\u201D people putting
    the \u201Ckern\u201D table into fonts that use CFF outlines, there is really no
    penalty for including that table anyway. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-17 16:05:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Thanks Adam, I prefer Michael Kaplans response (which I can't find) which
    basically says \"Do you support Unicode is a non-question, so deserves a non answer\"
    - more Kaplanisms here... \r\n\r\nhttp://blogs.msdn.com/michkap/archive/2005/12/23/506887.aspx\r\n\r\n>Unfortunately,
    the makers of the OpenType font format do not seem to be interested in documenting
    this publicly\r\n\r\nI'm interested, just don't have the time. It\u2019s more
    the maintenance than the initial set-up that worries me. However I'd be happy
    to contribute to a wiki page if someone were to set one up, I'm sure Tom or someone
    else from Adobe would contribute too. \r\n"
  created: '2007-01-17 19:18:54'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> I prefer Michael Kaplan's response \r\n\r\nAh, everyone seems to have *his
    own* favorite Microsoft blogger ;)\r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-01-20 18:13:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: The order in which features are applied in Indic scripts is very important,
    due to staggered character and glyph processing, which is why some functions that
    one might expect to be handled in a single feature, e.g. ccmp, are split across
    multiple, Indic-specific features. Also, when Microsoft first spec'd the Indic
    features, the generic ccmp feature had not been devised.
  created: '2007-03-23 06:40:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Si wrote: <em>The other suggestion which seems to work well for one-offs
    is to do the text in Publisher and export it as a PDF that can be placed in the
    Indy doc.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is similar to what I do when I need to put e.g. Hindi
    or Thai in InDesign documents, although usually I'm working with simple text blocks
    on a white background, so Word is usually sufficient (and considerably easier
    to use than Publisher). I'm not sure how useful this approach would be for more
    complex layout, e.g. packaging."
  created: '2007-03-23 06:42:43'
- author:
    name: Harbs
    picture: 112365
  body: "<cite>Also, when Microsoft first spec\u2019d the Indic features, the generic
    ccmp feature had not been devised.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe order in which they're applied
    is set by the order of the lookups, not the feature set. So you're basically saying
    that there's no reason why one can't use ccmp and mark. If the general features
    are used, InDesign ME should support these fonts!"
  created: '2007-03-23 07:39:39'
- author:
    name: DavidD
  body: "Now that CS3 is out, does anyone know if it supports the GSUB and GPOS tables
    needed for Tibetan or Indic languages?\r\nAlso, for cfinn: your sample of Tibetan
    pecha layout in OpenOffice is quite intriguing. Are you able to layout in OpenOffice
    in a way that prints two sides which flip vertically as opposed to the usual horizontal?
    We currently use a legacy font to print 3 folios per legal page in InDesign CS2.
    We thread from the top folio in front to the bottom folio on the back, then to
    the middle folio in front, middle back, bottom front, top back. Working from templates,
    we can thread a long text this way in little time. The resulting double-sided
    pages then just need to be cut in thirds. How does your OpenOffice method work?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: cfynn
      picture: 112122
    body: "DavidD wrote:\r\n\r\n<em>Are you able to layout in OpenOffice in a way
      that prints two sides which flip vertically as opposed to the usual horizontal?
      We currently use a legacy font to print 3 folios per legal page in InDesign
      CS2. We thread from the top folio in front to the bottom folio on the back,
      then to the middle folio in front, middle back, bottom front, top back. Working
      from templates, we can thread a long text this way in little time. The resulting
      double-sided pages then just need to be cut in thirds. How does your OpenOffice
      method work?</em>\r\n\r\nIn OpenOffice the best way is to make a template formatted
      for the final cut size - and there is a way of printing these folio sides so
      that they will come out two up or three up on a4 or legal paper in the correct
      order back to front.  You can \"print\" like this to a PDF file so that the
      folio sides are pre-assembled to make printing at any time easier. \r\n\r\nI
      intend to write a document describing how to do this in detail which I will
      post on my website.\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-04-03 15:57:03'
  created: '2007-03-28 15:29:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Now that CS3 is out, does anyone know if it supports the GSUB and GPOS tables
    needed for Tibetan or Indic languages?\r\n\r\n;-)"
  created: '2007-03-28 22:18:33'
- author:
    name: cfynn
    picture: 112122
  body: "There is now an article <em><a href= \"http://rywiki.tsadra.org/index.php/Platform_Independent_Tibetan_Unicode_Font\">
    Platform Independent Tibetan Unicode Font</a></em> posted on the <a href=\"http://rywiki.tsadra.org/index.php/Main_Page\">Dharma
    Dictionary</a> site.  \r\n\r\nThe method described essentially entails reduplicating
    the lookups under blws and abvs features under the rlig feature as well.\r\n\r\n-
    Chris  "
  created: '2007-04-03 16:15:32'
- author:
    name: DavidD
  body: "Chris,\r\nJust want to say THANKS! You are a wealth of valuable and accurate
    information!\r\nI look forward to seeing the article on pecha layout in OpenOffice
    on your website.\r\nDavid"
  created: '2007-04-04 03:29:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The order in which they\u2019re applied is set by the order of the lookups,
    not the feature set.</em>\r\n\r\nThat was the origial intention of OpenType, but
    complex script handling led Microsoft to modify its approach and the Uniscribe
    script engines apply certain features in a fixed order, regardless of the lookup
    order in the font. So far as I know, the first two features to be applied for
    any script are 'locl' and 'ccmp'; after that, the order is determined by the layout
    needs of the script."
  created: '2007-04-04 06:33:10'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "It still seems that the relation between OT specs and layout engines needs
    improved documentation.\r\n(1) One part would describe how this or that current
    application or layout engine works. For backward compatibility, if desired. To
    be done by applications' developers.\r\n(2) The more important part would be more
    instructive/imperative: How <cite>should</cite> layout engines do it? (This seems
    most important for complex scripts, but even Latin raises questions regarding
    typographic features like, which features to be called by an application's 'All
    Caps' option -- with or without 'lnum'?) This would establish a stable ground
    for both font and application developers, and make sure users can expect the same
    font behavior across platforms and applications.\r\n\r\nGreat thread.\r\n\r\nP.S.
    -- <cite>The method described essentially entails reduplicating the lookups under
    blws and abvs features under the rlig feature as well.</cite> -- Reminds me of
    the 'ssXX'/'salt' thread ..."
  created: '2007-04-04 11:22:48'
date: '2006-11-14 14:40:07'
node_type: forum
title: Tibetan font in VOLT and FontLab need some advice

---
