---
author:
  name: dezcom
  picture: 109959
body: "I have just spoken to an NPR Radio producer who is soon doing a program on
  the useage of [[script]] type in our era. She called to ask me to participate from
  the point of view of a designer. I would like to gather more than just my perspective
  so I am posing the question here in hopes other graphic designers and typographers
  would contribute their input as well. Some of the questions/concepts she posed:\r\n\r\n1.
  Is script dead and should we do away with it?\r\n2. What are particularly good and
  bad uses of script?\r\n3. Has our society tended to use script more or less during
  difficult economic times?\r\n4. How has the computer affected the use of script?\r\n5.
  How do you feel about mail that you get which is really handwritten? Do you read
  it first?\r\n6. How about junk mail that is faked to look like handwritten just
  to make you think it is personal mail?\r\n7. Where is script going in the future?\r\n\r\nI
  would also say that you can add whatever comments you mighjt have regarding script
  that don't fit the above questions.  I am just trying to get a feel for the \"word
  on the street\" as well.\r\n\r\nAny helpful comments welcomed,\r\n\r\nChrisL"
comments:
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "All-in-one word:\r\nAs the fish dies out of water, the script dies inside
    Computer.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-15 19:12:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/script_5331.png]'
  created: '2006-11-15 19:33:31'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<em>1. Is script dead and should we do away with it?</em> No and no (unless
    we're making emoticons in Zapfino)\r\n<em>2. What are particularly good and bad
    uses of script?</em> See above:) I don't think script is any worse or better for
    its abuse than any other form of type, except for all caps use.\r\n<em>3. Has
    our society tended to use script more or less during difficult economic times?</em>
    I suspect yes.\r\n<em>4. How has the computer affected the use of script?</em>
    It has allowed Tom, Dick and Harry to fontify their own handwriting.\r\n<em>5.
    How do you feel about mail that you get which is really handwritten? Do you read
    it first?</em> Yes, every time.\r\n<em>6. How about junk mail that is faked to
    look like handwritten just to make you think it is personal mail?</em> I recently
    had something from Sky TV which was very well faked, but on the whole it gets
    binned almost as fast as anything else, especially if the names of sender or sendee
    are the only ones rendered in script.\r\n<em>7. Where is script going in the future?</em>
    Technologies like OpenType will allow handwriting to have an infinite variety
    of contextual pairs so it will be harder to detect computer generated script.
    \r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-11-15 19:57:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Tim! I see you picked up on my little emoticon joke ;-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-15 20:04:31'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "I don't see any branch of type dying ... if so, it would be textura and the
    like. (Although we can always dream of Comic Sans dying). Script will always hold
    a place where the \"formal announcement\" effect is desired.\r\n\r\nThat said,
    creating a newspaper or direct mail advertisement in script that creates the look
    of an invitation, when all they are inviting me to is a chance for them to flog
    their product at me, won't work. I reject advertising and other communications
    that attempt to trick me.\r\n\r\nBad uses of script: do you mean when an amateur
    likes the capitals, so they give us Park Avenue in full caps? Good uses of script:
    I particularly like the scripts that give a wide range of options, like Shelley,
    or Poetica, which allow a designer to select from numerous intial and terminal
    characters to make a piece that says exactly what they want it to.\r\n\r\nI think
    the computer impact on script is enormous. Now everyone can create it, while 20
    years ago you hired a calligrapher, or spent years learning the skill itself.
    So script has been opened to the masses, and now is easily attainable. Fortunately,
    it has not seemed to been over used. (Unless you count oversaturation of Zapf
    Chancery Medium Italic, which is not really a script at all.)\r\n\r\nAs for the
    effect of handwriting fonts (is that the same as script?) I tend to like them
    less than formal scripts. I would limit their use greatly, to situations where
    true handwriting is needed (and that is not in advertising). It could be cool
    in movie or television credits, with the text being animated to appear to be hand
    written, but only once. The second guy to do it will appear so very derivative."
  created: '2006-11-15 20:07:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...do you mean when an amateur likes the capitals, so they give us Park
    Avenue in full caps? Good uses of script: I particularly like the scripts that
    give a wide range of options,...\"\r\n\r\nDon,\r\nI think she is after good and
    bad uses of script as a choice for a design by a graphic designer, not good or
    badly designed scripts.\r\nAn example of a bad use of a script would be for a
    highway sign. A good use might be for a wedding invitation or a baseball team
    logo--that sort of thing.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-15 20:13:45'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: "By chance, is this the show?\r\nhttp://www.radioopensource.org/curtains-for-cursive/\r\n\r\n(I'm
    a fan of this show and have been awaiting the results so I thought I might ask)"
  created: '2006-11-16 08:33:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yes Eric, that is it!\r\nAny comments you would like to contribute?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-16 13:07:46'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Wait a second, you mean my auto-insurance guy didn't hand-write that little
    note to me?
  created: '2006-11-16 14:38:48'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Chris, post a link and tell us what time so we can catch you when you're on!
  created: '2006-11-16 14:53:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Terry,\r\nI will as soon as I find out. She said she was planning on doing
    the recording of the interviews whithin a couple of weeks but did not say when
    it might air.\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\nPS: Isn't it bad enough to see my missplaced
    ramblings in ascii text, do you need to hear me stumble audibly as well? :-)"
  created: '2006-11-16 15:31:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Craig, I hate to break it to you all at once but: a) there is no Santa Claus;
    b) Clark Kent didn't need glasses; and c) your auto-insurance guy didn't handwrite
    that note on your junkmail :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-16 15:34:17'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "1. No and No\r\n2. I'll go with more no-nos tracking out connecting scripts,
    setting conneting scripts on a circle (although i've done this! it takes some
    work to get it right). Script is bad in the same way any other typestyle is bad:
    when it's inappropriate.\r\n3. no idea\r\n4. it's made good penmanship available
    to the computer-using masses.\r\n5. love it. yes. it means it's from a real person
    and they're thinking about you particularly as they write (none of this form letter
    stuff)\r\n6. doesn't work\r\n7. i think the script genre especially lends itself
    to taking advantage of OT bells and whistles. the variability made possible with
    contextual substitutions means that script fonts can be more natural and more
    lively. however, i think the market for hand lettering will stay strong as discerning
    clients will appreciate the value of hand-crafted, bespoke lettering."
  created: '2006-11-16 16:00:20'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: <a href="http://typophile.com/node/29547">Vote now!</a>
  created: '2006-11-16 16:05:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks for that survey Paul.  That is a better way to gather information.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-16 16:46:22'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: not really, but hopefully it can drive more discussion this direction.
  created: '2006-11-18 02:47:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hopefully so Paul, thanks for the effort.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-18 04:48:49'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: ">>Yes Eric, that is it!\r\n>>Any comments you would like to contribute?\r\n\r\nI
    can't help but think 'script' and 'cursive' are misplaced here - largely by the
    show OpenSource. Chris, you're talking about handwriting right? If I'm to follow
    the summary on the OpenSource website, I'd say they're interested in the erosion
    of handwriting and the rise email and blogging as a primary means of 'written'
    communication. But that's just a guess..."
  created: '2006-11-18 09:40:41'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "That was my impression too after following your link, which was what stopped
    me going back and editing my comments, because, on further thought, they were
    too related to handwriting. \r\nI think the answer to the question about economic
    conditions would, as a cynical response, be yes, with thoughts of manipulating
    the preparedness of people to open and read a handwritten communication, the slant
    of the questions seem to me to be about direct mail as much as handwriting.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-11-18 10:40:17'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'interesting, if i had followed the npr link earlier, i would have given you
    a link to this thread: <a href="http://typophile.com/node/28746">Death of Cursive</a>'
  created: '2006-11-18 14:48:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The questions I wrote at the top came out of my phone conversation with NPR.
    \ I think she was pushing beyond the handwriting only thing.  I think she saw
    that \"Death of Cursive\" thread here on Typophile and that is where she got my
    name for this \"second part\" of the broadcast. When she was asking me questions,
    it was all framed for a graphic designers perspective. I talked about people like
    Ben Shawn who used handwritten text in his design work, She specifically asked
    about Esquire Magazine and the script used for the logo.  We mostly talked about
    script in print, not handwritong in schools.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-18 16:37:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> When she was asking me questions, it was all\r\n> framed for a graphic
    designers perspective.\r\n\r\nThat's simply because [she knew] you're a graphic
    designer. Journalists work like that. The real point of public interest here can
    only really be the death of the act of writing by hand - anything else can only
    be allowed to feed into that in the end.\r\n\r\nPoint her to this:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/education/3103421.stm
    _\r\nThere is hope after all.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-18 16:44:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"That\u2019s simply because [she knew] you\u2019re a graphic designer\"\r\n\r\nOf
    course she knew I was a designer. I believe the opening line in her phone call
    to me was, \"I am looking for the perspective of a graphic designer for a piece
    I am doing; I saw your posts on Typohile and wanted to know if you would be interested
    in speaking for that point of view?\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-18 16:52:04'
- author:
    name: amyp
    picture: 109556
  body: "<em>1. Is script dead and should we do away with it?</em>\r\n\r\nNO and NO!
    I think the deluge of handwriting fonts tell us that people WANT script, but just
    don't see a big difference between handwriting/ handwriting fonts. They still
    try to say the same thing these days: AUTHENTICITY.\r\n\r\n<em>2. What are particularly
    good and bad uses of script?</em>\r\n\r\nGood Script Type: hmmm....Wedding Invites?
    \ There are plenty of examples.... but I always find myself asking, What were
    they trying to achieve and Why didn't they just write it?\r\n\r\nBad Script: Solicitations
    trying to \"look\" handwritten, but obviously aren't.\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>3. Has our
    society tended to use script more or less during difficult economic times?</em>\r\n\r\nInteresting
    question.... I think script is used now to create a sense of authenticity, nostalgia...
    Script was very popular in post-War advertising for new consumer goods...Perhaps
    as a way to connect people to these new consumer goods to connote \"affordable
    luxuries\".... \r\n\r\n<em>4. How has the computer affected the use of script?</em>\r\nHow
    HASN'T it? The compuer has eradicated the necessity of script in almost everyway.
    Now, script is used for decoration, rather than just communication. The roles
    have reversed, in a way.\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>5. How do you feel about mail that you
    get which is really handwritten? Do you read it first? </em>\r\n\r\nYes, definetly.
    I know that a handwritten piece of mail is likely from a person I actually know
    (although it is usually a thank you card from one of the myriad of weddings and
    showers I have recently attended, financially bleeding me dry... And yet, we EXPECT
    these thank you notes to be handwritten, that the person will take the \"extra
    effort\" to write it by hand.)\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>6. How about junk mail that is faked
    to look like handwritten just to make you think it is personal mail?</em>\r\n\r\nWhen
    I first started to notice this, it really fascinated me. Now, I find it patronizing.
    Do they think I actually believe this is handwriring? \r\nAnd yet, we see this
    all the time in advertising and solicitation. I think there is a blurred line
    between script and handwriting fonts that imitate script. In a sense, both signify
    authenticity.\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>7. Where is script going in the future?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think we'll continue see more sophisticated handwriting fonts. This is one of
    my personal theories, but I think the average blogger/chat room visitor/ text
    messager feels the need to express themselves with the fonts they chose, in the
    same way they could/would have previously done with their speech or with their
    handwriting. We are having written conversations now that would have previously
    been conducted verbally. This takes on a whole new meaning for the idea of typing
    and conversation....i think digital handwriting (or fonts that mimic handwriting,
    or ways that users invent to mimic personal expression) will fit into this in
    the future somehow....\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-18 19:27:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Amy! That was a well thought out response. I particularly found your
    \"blurred line\" comment thought provoking. When do we lose authenticity and when
    are we being phony? It may more be how types are used than how they are designed,\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-18 20:16:50'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: ALL CAPS SCRIPT = BAD
  created: '2006-11-18 23:06:58'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>1. Is script dead and should we do away with it?</cite>\r\nMostly yes,
    and it's no great loss. Having multiple alphabets for a single language simply
    to impart certain written documents with an air of importance is silly. The world
    has changed dramatically since script writing was developed, and we simply have
    more important things to teach kids, not to mention remember. Most people don't
    have a clue how to write\u2014or in the cases of some variants even read\u2014blackletter,
    and civilization seems to be no worse off.\r\n<cite>2. What are particularly good
    and bad uses of script?</cite>\r\nGood? Retro-1950s stuff, like Christina Aguilera's
    latest album art. Bad is all of the horrible overuse of Zapfino on rap albums,
    because it just contributes to the minstrel show that is contemporary hip-hop.\r\n<cite>3.
    Has our society tended to use script more or less during difficult economic times?</cite>\r\nI'm
    not old or expert enough to answer that one.\r\n<cite>4. How has the computer
    affected the use of script?</cite>\r\nIf it wasn't for the computer, I might not
    use it at all. I really only started using it again after being inspired by the
    some script designs from House Industries. \r\n<cite>5. How do you feel about
    mail that you get which is really handwritten? Do you read it first?</cite>\r\nI
    get handwritten mail about once every other year, so it's a moot point.\r\n<cite>6.
    How about junk mail that is faked to look like handwritten just to make you think
    it is personal mail?</cite>\r\nI'm not in the demographic that gets such mailings.\r\n<cite>7.
    Where is script going in the future?</cite>\r\nIn the short term, brush script
    is about to explode as 1950s retro design kicks in. Long term, it's going to go
    the way of Calligraphy\u2014a hobby for type nerds and wedding invitation designers\u2014and
    in the very long term it's going to disappear almost entirely."
  created: '2006-11-19 00:46:55'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "In Amyp's interesting posting, came:\r\n> Interesting question\u2026. I think
    script is used now to create a sense of authenticity, nostalgia\u2026\r\n\r\nInteresting
    Coincedence! An Arabic script that is used now to create a sense of authenticity
    is Nostalig(a).\r\n<a href=\"http://www.splart.net/forum/index.php?showtopic=11942&hl=\u0646\u0633\u062A\u0639\u0644\u064A\u0642\">Samples</a>
    with <a href=\"http://www.crAUSwords.com/flowers/WFlowers.htm\">Flowers</a>"
  created: '2006-11-19 06:10:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Jpad,\r\n\r\nSome up-front predictins there. Is this just a gut feeling or
    do you see some signs that lead you to believe \"Where script is going in the
    future\"? If so, can you share your thoughts?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-19 14:58:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hrant,\r\nThanks for that BBC link. I am sure she will find that interesting
    (if she hasn't seen it already). That aspect of it seems to fit in very well with
    her first program about handwriting.\r\n\r\nAziz,\r\nCare to elaborate on the
    Arabic script post? It looks like a Nordzig kind of thing where all the strokes
    are defined.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-19 15:04:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Terry and whomsover else might be interested,\r\n\r\nThe radio broadcast
    will take place tonight on some NPR stations at 7:00pm eastern. Broadcast times
    will vary with local stations and time zones. There may be a \"PodCast\" available
    later.  If so, I will post a link.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-30 20:11:27'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "I'll be listening. Thanks Chris!\r\n\r\nI'm surprised they could even ask
    the question, given the astounding sales figures for script faces.\r\n\r\nJLT\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt
    : http://www.hewnandhammered.com : rnrmf!"
  created: '2006-11-30 20:56:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Joshua,\r\nI told them they were hot sales items.  I think only us type geeks
    know such things :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: Thanks for listening"
  created: '2006-11-30 21:05:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here are the links from NPR for tonight's program. It will air at 7:00pm\r\n\r\nHere
    is the link to the show: http://www.radioopensource.org/curtains-for-cursive/\r\n\r\nand
    how you listen to it: http://www.radioopensource.org/be-a-source/hear-on-the-radio/\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-30 22:18:16'
date: '2006-11-15 18:59:29'
title: Script usage discussion for NPR Radio interview

---
