---
author:
  name: mondoB
body: "If you are interested in buying Font Folio, Adobe's complete OpenType library
  on CD, reading the on-site sales copy might lead you to conclude that, aside from
  higher tech quality, a new order of glyph options, especially easy access to oldstyle
  figures, is promised *across the board* in this expensive product. But customers
  found out otherwise--the hard way. Many fonts/families did indeed sport complete
  new glyphs and oldstyle figures, but others had only limited glyphs without oldstyle
  figures, and quite a few offered only the Euro symbol as the new element. \r\n\r\nLet's
  have a moment of silence for glyphs missing in: Mendoza, Giovanni, Galliard, Bell,
  Berkeley Oldstyle, Esprit, Ehrhardt, Goudy Modern, Guardi, Hadriano, Horley Oldstyle,
  Italian Oldstyle, Legacy Serif, Minister, Photina, Plantin, Raleigh, Stone Serif,
  Veljovic, Versailles, Wilke. That's just serif text families; I didn't count the
  sans text families.\r\n\r\nWhatever the reasons, surely it is in Adobe's interest
  to qualify their sales copy for this product so customers can buy with their eyes
  open. Because it's difficult to research glyph schedules for over 2,200 fonts, can
  you specify, in one place, which fonts/families have complete glyphs, which have
  limited glyphs, and which have only the Euro symbol? "
comments:
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Aren't all those licensed typefaces? In that case your rant should be adressed
    at Linotype and Monotype and ITC (all under one hood now, as it is).\r\n\r\nAs
    far as I know all Adobe Originals OTFs have extensive glyph-sets."
  created: '2006-11-17 09:58:46'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "Mondo mate have you ever even attempted to make a bloody typefacw? I doubt
    it. It is a bproblem when you get big players like adobe cos all they ever seem
    to do is suck the whiner s out of the woodowork like maggots. When you spit the
    dummy about stupid shit like this then you make me spit the dummy!!!\r\n\r\nMuzz"
  created: '2006-11-17 10:17:19'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: As I've heard they have only just started planting the trees for the oldstyle
    figures to grow on.
  created: '2006-11-17 10:29:49'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "\"...your rant should be addressed at Linotype and Monotype and ITC.\"\r\n\r\nMonotype
    and ITC are actually stepping in to fulfill OpenType's potential by converting
    their type one faces to OT with complete glyph sets. They're part of the solution."
  created: '2006-11-17 11:04:51'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "I'm pretty sure the presence of osfs has to do with what Adobe had licences
    for. \r\n\r\nMany Adobe fonts do have all the goodies, including some Monotype
    fonts like Bulmer, Dante and Fournier. It seems if Adobe had the osfs available
    in their library, they were added.\r\n\r\nI note that Adobes' EULA is more liberal
    than many, and it may be that it was difficult to come to an agreement with the
    other foundries."
  created: '2006-11-17 13:01:11'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: I like Adobe, but I have to admit...not including OSF in an OpenType font
    package is a pretty wicked surprise.
  created: '2006-11-17 14:33:05'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I think that it is easy to overlook the real, basic beniefits of OpenType
    fonts. For large foundries, the best thing OT fonts have going for them is their
    cross-platform compatability. Instead of having the worry about 20,000 fonts,
    because you have every font in Mac and PC versions, or even worse 40,000 fonts,
    because you have Mac PS, Mac TT, PC PS, and PC TT, you just have 10,000 OT fonts.
    And these 10,00 work everywhere (that supports OT\u2026)\r\n\r\nAside from this,
    OpenType can include lots of other benefits, like typographic features or support
    for more languages. But a font is still a \"real\" OpenType font, even if it has
    neither of them.\r\n\r\nThere are really already two generations of OT-fonts at
    most larger foundries. The first generation was just a conversion\u2026 cut down
    on cross-platform issues. The second generation is where the features and the
    languages came in. Many smaller foundries didn't even come to the OT table until
    generation 2. Generation 2 fonts are better, without a doubt, but they take time
    to make. They'll be there, don't worry. Even if all of them aren't there yet."
  created: '2006-11-17 14:52:18'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'OpenType is a technical standard; it doesn''t specify what characters must
    be present. It''s something of a marketing issue: you can''t tell by the name
    ''OpenType'' whether the font will have 256 characters or 3400. "Pro" is usually
    a good indicator there''s more included, but foundries should provide showings
    of the specific character set of a particular design. Otherwise there''s no guarantee
    of small caps or anything else. Producing OpenType Pro (or other advanced, enhanced
    OT fonts) is <strong>much</strong> more labor-intensive than simply converting
    the format of an existing PS or TT font. Check the character set before you buy,
    and look for a specific designation like "Pro". '
  created: '2006-11-17 18:19:38'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "The licensed (non-Adobe) OpenType fonts in the Adobe Type Library are all
    produced from the Type 1 versions which preceded them. If you look at a pre-OpenType
    catalog of the ATL, you'll see that whatever was or wasn't present there is the
    same for the OpenType versions. Of course we took all the supplemental fonts we
    had and combined them into a single OTF and made the alternates accessible through
    layout features as best we could. It was, essentially, a conversion project.\r\n\r\nSo
    yes, the OpenType versions of these fonts were not expanded, but neither were
    they reduced or limited. Licensing issues aside, I assure you we had our hands
    full expanding the Adobe Originals.\r\n\r\nAs for why the various expert glyphs
    (oldstyle figures, smallcaps) weren't available in the first place, that <em>is</em>
    probably a licensing issue in most cases, and such things are not trivial. That's
    some history I don't know much about, but maybe Thomas or someone else might have
    more to say about it.\r\n\r\nThanks for being so obnoxious. We really don't get
    much of that on the Internet and it is just so refreshing and enjoyable."
  created: '2006-11-17 18:28:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Thanks for being so obnoxious. We really don\u2019t get much of that on
    the Internet and it is just so refreshing and enjoyable.\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-17 19:02:47'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Eheh, it's interesting to see how Adobe has helped raised the typographic
    bar so much, that now people take all the typographic niceties* for granted in
    every font :^)\r\n\r\n* Small Caps, superiors, inferiors, ligatures, oldstyle
    figures, alternates, and the list goes on..."
  created: '2006-11-17 20:41:55'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: The complaint here is valid; let's talk remedies.
  created: '2006-11-17 21:12:58'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "John, \r\n\r\nRefuge from what? Could it be your thread title? Chris has
    shared useful information, as have others. If you have a product request, frame
    it as such. If you want to influence Adobe's actions, I would try a different
    tone. "
  created: '2006-11-17 21:45:54'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "\"If you have a product request, frame it as such.\"\r\n\r\nSee above."
  created: '2006-11-18 01:41:16'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "It's far more complicated that simply \"retrieving\" old style figures. The
    font data you're talking about are owned by someone else, and are not presently
    (and have never been) part of any licensing agreement with Adobe. It is far from
    trivial to negotiate such things. Sometime it is not possible. Remember, Adobe
    and Monotype have their respective businesses to run, and there are perfectly
    legitimate business reasons why you might never see this material in a font sold
    by Adobe. I don't know where you got the idea that the supplements for Plantin,
    et al., are so easily available to Adobe. That's simply not true.\r\n\r\nIt is
    even more fantastic to suggest Adobe commission such additions. We are not at
    liberty to create and sell additions to a typeface we're licensing from another
    foundry any more than, say, Monotype is at liberty to commission and sell additions
    for Minion.\r\n\r\n<cite>I read Chris' post with interest, but it did not seem
    to answer anything or exhibit much concern. Perhaps that's why we rant.</cite>\r\n\r\nAmazing.
    You post a simplistic, insulting message and complain about the quality of the
    response you get."
  created: '2006-11-18 08:52:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\"Amazing\" \r\n\r\nNo, the word is \"Trolltastic\" :-)"
  created: '2006-11-18 14:34:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What I find amazing is the restraint by Christopher in his replies. He remained
    a gentleman and proceded to be helpful even though the opening volley question
    from MondoB (and all his others) were insulting and untrue. Christopher should
    be applauded.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-18 16:46:01'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "\"You...complain about the quality of the response you get.\"\r\n\r\nOf course
    I do. Aside from gains in tech quality, one of the key selling points for buying
    OpenType is that the user's favorite glyphs, which in type one format were placed
    in expert fonts, will now be accessed more easily if the customer re-buys their
    favorites in this new format. And then, by my count, 21 serif families fail to
    deliver that key glyph option, and the user is left in the dark as to why. Monotype
    Bembo and Dante get full glyph coverage by Adobe in OT, while Bell, Photina, Plantin
    and others do not. Same company; what's the problem?  These are not small discrepancies,
    but a glaring industrial problem, and I want typophiles to be aware of it in its
    true scale. With 435 reads the first day, this rant post serves that useful function.
    \r\n\r\nBringing about completions through collaboration is not a fantasy but
    rather a business opportunity not to be scoffed at. Take, for instance, Guardi,
    designed by Reinhard Haus of Linotype in 1986 before oldstyle figures became as
    prominent as they are now. This stylish Venetian face would get a completely new
    lease on life, in coordinated OT release, by being completed with OSFs and other
    glyphs in partnership with the licensor. Would the original designer and Linotype
    simply say no to that? We would love some answers, but more important, we would
    love creative, collaborative action to bring full glyphs to every text family
    where it is possible, particularly when each remedy means a fresh opportunity
    to sell. You feel insulted...what about the Adobe customers who still want to
    roll out Plantin with loaded OSFs?"
  created: '2006-11-18 16:55:25'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "For Plantin Pro see:\r\nhttp://www.fonts.com/findfonts/detail.htm?pid=433209\r\n\r\nand\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fonts.com/findfonts/detail.htm?pid=433194"
  created: '2006-11-18 18:04:04'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>and the user is left in the dark about it.</em>\r\n\r\ni don't think
    this is true. i believe adobe and many reseller sites enumerate which features
    are available in which fonts. it take doing your homework to see if the options
    you want are available, but i think this is going to be inevitable with new OpenType
    Pro fonts: you have to check the list of ingredients.\r\nnow on another note.
    John, i think we've all gotten your memo about the importance of OSFs. can you
    stop harping on it for a while? it's kind of like listening to a one-note piano
    concerto."
  created: '2006-11-18 18:57:38'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "Thanks John Nolan...exactly what I mean...those who bought the Adobe OT library
    thinking they would get Plantin with OSFs discovered they have now to RE-BUY elsewhere
    to get the complete glyph coverage they thought Adobe would offer as a matter
    of course. Older example: Stone Serif, released thru both Adobe and ITC in the
    early 90s...ITC offered OSFs for it years ago, but when Adobe converted Stone
    Serif to OT, OSFs were still missing. Why?\r\n\r\nThe status quo is hardly in
    Adobe's interest. Competitors are now plugging the gaps in their library for them.
    Why buy Adobe's incomplete Plantin (or others) when Monotype or ITC offer complete
    versions? "
  created: '2006-11-18 19:00:49'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>Why buy Adobe\u2019s incomplete Plantin</cite>\r\n\r\nAdobe's Plantin?\r\nI
    think Mr Slye made it clear that Adobe's library consists of different typefaces
    from different sources. Adobe is originator of some, but kind of distributor of
    others.* (I hope this is plain enough yet still not too far from the truth.)\r\nWhen
    complaining about \"Adobe's\" \"incomplete\" OT fonts, please remember that other
    foundries/resellers, including LT, MT and ITC, came out with their first OT fonts
    very late; MT and ITC were the last ones if I remember correctly. So there's a
    certain irony to it if you put all blame on Adobe ...\r\n\r\nIndeed it is wise
    to compare different versions before licensing a particular one, or to find out
    which foundry is the originator of a typeface because they may offer the most
    complete family or latest version or whatever else. At least this is what I do."
  created: '2006-11-18 22:04:45'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "@ John Stahle (a.k.a. mondoB)\r\n\r\nHow many times it needs to be said that
    ADOBE DOES _NOT_ HAVE THE LICENSE/AUTHORIZATION TO INCLUDE ANY ADDITIONAL GLYPHS
    IN THE FONTS YOU'VE MENTIONED."
  created: '2006-11-19 10:05:31'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "We know that, Miguel...instead of waiting for licensors to update their faces
    at their own pace, Adobe could collaborate to complete glyphs on a typeface, then
    market the result jointly, exactly as two opera houses might co-produce an opera.
    So if Guardi, languishing with only lining figures, becomes Guardi Pro with OSFs
    and other glyphs, it might attract new well-merited attention it never got before.\r\n\r\nWe're
    also raising the far more intriguing possibility of concerted action, across the
    industry, whereby every font released in OT by anybody has uniformly complete
    glyph coverage as a new industrial standard of benefit to everyone. That way,
    stubborn holdouts like Monotype's Horley Oldstyle might find new popularity when
    given complete glyphs, esp the OSFs implied in the name. \r\n\r\nBut in the meantime,
    smart shoppers, as KL mentions, can find what they want elsewhere--Monotype's
    complete OT version of Plantin is sold on their site right alongside Adobe's incomplete
    version, which of course is also acquired from Monotype. And yes, they distinguish
    each by its \"source\" exactly that way: in their view, it IS \"Adobe's Plantin.\"\r\n\r\nWell,
    we've had a lovely visit to the Adobe suggestion box...my sincere thanks to Typophile
    for letting me air my heretical views in some detail...everybody, enjoy your holiday
    bird--served with oldstyle figures!!"
  created: '2006-11-19 16:58:27'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "T Bones: Sorry to dissapoint you mate, but is a photo of old Chopper Reid,
    an Aussie hero! I find him bloody funny, but nothing to do with typefaces!!\r\n\r\nDo
    you feel better now Mondo? Had a good rant and got it all out of your system??
    Maybe you could just take it easy and have a beer or two with your mates. it might
    be better to \"put things in perspective\" as me dear old mum would say. You're
    acting like its a scandal or something. \r\n\r\nMuzz"
  created: '2006-11-19 19:43:30'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "John, I think part of the problem is although I think your complaint is valid\u2014
    how you choose to convey your points are often a bit extreme. Instead of accusations,
    perhaps inquire about why this exists, instead of going on a tirade. Shock tactics
    often work to get attention, but once you've gotten the attention the tactics
    can be called into question.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, while it is the buyer's
    responsibility, to investigate the features in large font packages...what is included
    with each family can also be misleading. In addition to going through a line item
    on every font in a package (which can number in thousands) the user is also expected
    to check every feature associated with every single font in a package? Let's get
    real people, spending thousands of dollars on a font package and finding a surprise
    like this might get you a little miffed. No disrespect to the people who worked
    hard on putting packages like this together\u2014 but we can't forget about the
    consumer, this can be considered misleading."
  created: '2006-11-19 19:44:19'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Of course I wish we had all those extra goodies in the OpenType versions
    of the third-party licensed typefaces in our library. And I can understand some
    folks' frustration at the face that those goodies existed (if not ever in Adobe's
    type library) but were not included in Adobe's OpenType versions of the fonts.\r\n\r\nIt
    might help people to rewind the clock to round about late 2001, when Adobe was
    doing planning to convert its entire library to OpenType.\r\n\r\nIt was clear
    to us then that the rest of the type industry needed a indication of commitment
    from Adobe, that this OpenType thing was more than just a flirtation. Converting
    our entire type library to OpenType seemed like the strongest measure of that
    (along with increased OpenType support in our applications, which we were also
    working on at that time).\r\n\r\nMy take is that negotiating new contracts with
    Linotype and Monotype/ITC, and then integrating additional materials, would have
    delayed things a couple of years if it was even successful. \r\n\r\nI can't know
    for sure, but I wouldn't want to bet either way on whether Lino and Mono would
    have agreed at the time. Heck, Linotype hasn't even given Adobe the rights to
    resell any of the fancy new OpenType fonts they've made over the last few years.
    Clearly they feel there is value in keeping some goodies to themselves.\r\n\r\nBut
    even if it had been a viable option, delaying our OpenType conversion for, say,
    two years to incorporate more goodies would not have been a wise move, IMO. In
    those first few years of OpenType it was not a foregone conclusion that OpenType
    would become the new standard and other type foundries would flock to it. Had
    we taken too long to get our library converted, it would have raised serious questions
    about commitment to the format, and quite possibly cost us the momentum we needed
    - I'm not sure we would have reached \"escape velocity\" with that delay.\r\n\r\nAt
    *best*, I believe it would have slowed the rest of the industry's conversion to
    OpenType by about two years as well. I can imagine us being in this alternate
    universe, wherein QuarkXPress 7 doesn't have any OpenType layout support, and
    the rest of the type foundries would be now at the point they were at two years
    ago - and that's my *best* outcome.\r\n\r\nIf we'd had to tell Adobe's own applications
    that we wouldn't have a converted font library until 2005, I don't know if we'd
    have gotten their full buy-in when we did, either. Being able to promise that
    the fonts were coming and quickly was an important part of why our own applications
    bought into the feature support. So at worst, OpenType might have been relegated
    to the same status as AAT or multiple masters... ack.\r\n\r\nThat's all speculation,
    of course. That being said, I've watched this very carefully from the inside for
    9.5 years now, and have been involved in a lot of discussions about OpenType support
    with our own applications, third parties, and OS vendors over the years. \r\n\r\nSo,
    I wish that we had more typographic goodies in the third party fonts, but even
    if we could revisit that decision, I don't know that I for one would be arguing
    for us to so it differently.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\nThomas Phinney\r\nProduct
    Manager\r\nFonts & Global Typography\r\nAdobe Systems"
  created: '2006-11-19 22:32:06'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Oh, and as a side note, one can accuse people of whatever you like, but calling
    the type group at Adobe lazy is just plain hogwash. You have no idea how hard
    this team works, and how many hours a week they put in.\r\n\r\nI was down in San
    Jose Monday through Wednesday last week. I vividly remember sticking my head out
    of my borrowed office at about 6:30 or 7 one evening as I started to think about
    dinnertime. The majority of the entire group was still in their offices, cranking
    away.\r\n\r\nAnd this is nothing compared to the hours people were putting in
    during the library conversion....\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-11-19 22:39:27'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Mondo, \r\n\r\nI think you should understand a simple thing: it was not a
    matter of Adobe \"collaborating\" with Linotype, Monotype or ITC. My guess is
    that when Adobe released the \"Std\" versions of the Linotype, Monotype and ITC
    fonts, the LinoMonoITC conglomerate (as it is now) were interested in releasing
    \"Pro\" versions of these faces later. So it was quite obvious that neither Linotype
    nor Monotype/ITC were particularly fond of giving the data to Adobe on a \"good
    will\" basis. Also, adding new glyphs requires new kerning etc. With the sheer
    number of typefaces in the Adobe Type Library, this would surely delay the production
    considerably. \r\n\r\nBut there is a simple key to the naming in the Adobe Type
    Library. \"Std\" and \"Pro\". You can simply assume that the Adobe \"Std\" fonts
    are simply a sum of the previously existing Adobe Type 1 fonts while the \"Pro\"
    fonts have been reworked and expanded. \r\n\r\nThe Plantin Type 1 versions with
    OsF you're referring to were the Monotype versions, not the Adobe versions, as
    far as I can tell. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-11-19 23:08:13'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Figuring out what is available in a type family isn't that difficult. Yes,
    some sites do not offer enough information. However, if you know what it is that
    you need, why is it so difficult to find out. Most foundries can be reached by
    phone or e-mail, or even here on Typophile. \r\n\r\nIf you took the time to look
    on the pages at Adobe you'd notice they tell you right there on the page what
    you are getting with the font. A little comparison can go a long way.\r\n\r\nExhibit
    A: <a href=\"http://www.adobe.com/type/browser/P/P_1250.html\">Plantin STD</a>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/plantin-duh_3935.png]\r\n\r\nExhibit
    B: <a href=\"http://www.adobe.com/type/browser/F/GRPP/F_GRPP-10010010.html\">Garamond
    Premier Pro</a>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/garamondpremierpro-duh_4311.png]"
  created: '2006-11-20 00:56:43'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "I wonder if mondo will have the balls to say sorry.\r\n\r\nMuzz"
  created: '2006-11-20 01:19:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mostly I wonder who the rest of \"we\" is?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-20 01:54:05'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Figuring out what is available in a type family isn\u2019t that difficult.
    Yes, some sites do not offer enough information. However, if you know what it
    is that you need, why is it so difficult to find out.</em>\r\n\r\nTiff, I think
    it is often more difficult than it needs to be. While your example is an \"ideal\"
    situation, if you're starting from scratch building a type library from the ground
    up and you need for example ALL of the classics\u2014 line item searching takes
    a long time. Time you may not have when you've got a lot of clients and a lot
    of work piling up.\r\n\r\nExample. I did some research to get the most cost effective
    package(s) to get the company I work for up and running. I found a few fonts in
    the package were bits and pieces of complete families. Huh? What am I going to
    do with just the bold weights of some well known families? A consumer can feel
    like (at least I do) that if I can't have it all there...don't give it to me at
    all. \r\n\r\nIt's like buying a bicycle and finding out there's no wheels in the
    box. I'm not saying I'm not partially at fault\u2014 but buying font bundles can
    get a little tricky."
  created: '2006-11-20 04:45:40'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I guess I am idealizing, I'm sorry for that Terry. Yes, this example I've
    posted above is probably a best case scenario.\r\n\r\nPerhaps this is the downside
    of buying (in) bundles. That being you might miss something that you would have
    caught had you only been licensing a single family. \r\n\r\nI suppose my reaction
    comes from my own experiences. That's not to say I haven't had my own fiasco.
    I've licensed a large family after realizing (remembering) that it was bundled
    with the software. (Long store, don't ask.)\r\n\r\nBut I think, perhaps, that
    when you are buying in bundles it is enough of an investment that someone should
    be involving the foundry more. Telling them exactly what your needs/hopes are.
    It sounds like your situation was rushed, that is unforunate. "
  created: '2006-11-20 05:40:28'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Muzz,\r\n\r\nI wouldn't go so far as to call the 'ol chop chop an aussie
    hero... \r\n\r\n--N"
  created: '2006-11-20 07:31:38'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "Many thanks to Thomas for an illuminating post. Launching OpenType was a\r\nhigh-wire
    act, for which Adobe deserves all kinds of credit. But we also see\r\nthis work
    is far from finished. The initiative for transforming type\r\nclassics into full-glyph
    OpenType has passed to others, notably Monotype and\r\nITC. That's where the OT
    action is now: the new issues at fonts.com and\r\nitcfonts.com.\r\n\r\nI voiced
    my complaint on behalf of the many customers who spent thousands on\r\nAdobe's
    complete OpenType library expecting to enjoy a new world of options\r\nacross
    the board. Then, in a dismaying number of faces, they got nothing of\r\nthe sort.
    For quite a few, literally the only new thing was the Euro\r\nsymbol. Those who
    still wanted full-glyph versions of faces left incomplete by Adobe now had to
    BUY THEM AGAIN elsewhere, if they could. For these burned customers, my complaint
    would seem understated.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-23 14:17:54'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Mondo, \r\n\r\nI'm not sure why it is so that you or other customers believed
    that the new OpenType library contains something that it doesn't contain. I remember
    Adobe advertising the OpenType library as offering a cross-platform font solution
    (the same font file for different operating systems), easier access to various
    extra glyphs such as ligatures, Unicode compatibility, the presence of the euro
    character, and -- for the \"Pro\" fonts -- expanded character sets. This actually
    already accounts for a \"new world of options\". \r\n\r\nHowever, if some computer
    magazine journalist or whoever else this might be made you or some other customers
    that \"everything is new\" in the Adobe OpenType library, I'd seriously go and
    complain to that very journalist or the other person. \r\n\r\nOtherwise, I would
    be interested to hear how you arrived at that very \"expectation\" that you describe.
    I don't recollect hearing anybody at Adobe lying about the contents of the Std
    fonts -- therefore I'd be curious to know. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-24 20:10:11'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "Adam, if you go to their website sales copy for Adobe Font Folio OpenType
    edition, under Key Benefits of buying the CD, it promises:\r\n\r\n--Revive fine
    typography with expanded glyph sets containing swashes, small caps, and old-style
    figures...\r\n\r\n--Take advantage of multiple font packages with merged character
    sets, allowing easy access to expert set characters \u2014 such as small capitals
    and old-style figures \u2014 when using OpenType savvy applications...\r\n\r\nNowhere
    on that page does it say \"except for families we could not complete this way\"
    or words to that effect. The customer finds that out the hard way. Basically Adobe's
    response to this complaint comes down to \"you should have read the fine print\"
    or rather checked out each font or family's glyph schedule. But as Terry Biddle
    said above, this is completely impractical--there are \"more than 2,200 fonts.\"
    \r\n\r\nIf you read the Key Benefits, you will see that a customer would be easily
    misled into thinking full glyphs are promised across the board. I've heard exactly
    this lament from plenty of NYC type buyers who are usually tough customers. The
    helpful thing would be for Adobe to list faces/families by their glyph coverage
    in one place; nothing of the sort appears in the sales section now. Thomas, in
    his post above, admits the validity of our complaint while pleading extenuating
    circumstances. For those burned, that's very cold comfort, and for the retailer,
    worse PR."
  created: '2006-11-26 02:57:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John, I sympathize -- up to a point.\r\nI think your expectations have been
    fluffed by Adobe's largesse, which has also made them somewhat indiscriminate.\r\nSo
    it's good that you have raised this issue, so that reality can set in.\r\nThe
    fact is, as the foot soldiers are pointing out, OpenType is a huge job of work.\r\nWith
    the bernefits it offers also comes the responsibility, and the onus, for end users
    to become more informed about the differences between font features -- better
    typographers, even. Because there is no longer a standard font format, if there
    ever was. Even with Adobe's offerings, which do a good job of being consistent,
    there are still internal discrepencies, such as the Adobe Caslon Pro Small Caps
    issue (when you select small caps in InDesign, you get vrai for the Roman, but
    faux for the Italic). I mention this not to castigate Adobe, but to draw a line
    that is hopefully helpful.\r\n\r\nNow mix into the equation the different feature
    sets that independent foundries will implement in their OpenType fonts, and I
    think what will emerge is a cultural environment where the expertise of typographers
    will come to the fore, in discriminating between not just the aesthetic quality
    of typefaces and fonts, but also their functional capabilites, based on their
    differing feature sets. So mass bundling won't be an easy option, for seller or
    buyer.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-26 04:09:28'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: Thanks Nick...you second a point I made, that we type lovers have to become
    very tough type shoppers. As I mentioned, the OT initiative has passed to other
    sources, like Monotype and ITC. From ITC, at long last, we can now get Berkeley
    Oldstyle with the oldstyle figures they had originally, pre-Postscript. And who
    ever thought we would see oldstyle figures for ITC Franklin Gothic? These options
    have emerged only in the past year. And, after the period of exclusivity I presume
    the licensors want, Adobe could acquire these completed versions in place of the
    incomplete versions they sell now.
  created: '2006-11-26 06:13:54'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Mondo, \r\n\r\nif I were to buy a library of 2,200 fonts, I'd seriously ask
    myself \"did they actually extend all of those 2,200 fonts with additional glyphs\"?
    Now, I agree, this skepticism would mean that the potential buyer knew the original
    Type 1 offerings of Adobe (which often were without OsF). But I don't see how
    a reasonable buyer should be disappointed by finding out that the 2,200 fonts
    he got are not \"all noo\" (\"noo\" being a New York pronunciation of \"new\",
    btw ;) \r\n\r\nThis really almost boils down to the popular belief that fonts
    grow on trees. The fact is that now, due to OpenType, companies such as Linotype,
    Monotype, ITC start extending their fonts with additional glyphs -- but this is
    done *one family at a time*. Anybody who even remotely understands type design
    would realize that the Adobe OpenType library could not realistically be extended
    in their entirety. \r\n\r\nI simply cannot agree that it is fair to call Adobe
    \"lazy\". \r\n\r\nFortunately enough, the naming key (\"Std\" vs. \"Pro\") should
    be a good indication on what is going on. "
  created: '2006-11-26 09:04:00'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "\"the naming key ('Std' vs. 'Pro') should be a good indication on what is
    going on.\"\r\n\r\nexcept it isn't. \"Std\" means a lot of things, discoverable
    only by researching each font's glyph schedule. Monotype Dante and Bembo \"Std\"
    have been converted impeccably, with full glyph coverage and beautiful, easily
    accessed oldstyle figures, but Monotype Photina Std contains no new glyphs at
    all, just the Euro symbol. "
  created: '2006-11-26 16:37:03'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>Monotype Photina Std contains no new glyphs at all, just the euro symbol,
    even though the type one version had expert fonts with glyphs.</cite>\r\n\r\nAdobe
    did <em>not</em> sell any Type 1 expert fonts for Photina. Adobe converted its
    library from Type 1 to OpenType, and it's safe to say that if it's a non-Adobe
    font, the OpenType-format font has the same glyphs as the Type 1 font(s) (aside
    from some marginal additions like Euro). I know of no cases where anything was
    removed.\r\n\r\nAt Adobe, the name \"Pro\" means that the character set supports
    Central European languages. Anything else is \"Std\". Other font vendors have
    chosen to use those suffixes and assign different meanings -- but Adobe was the
    first to use them as far as I know.\r\n\r\n<cite>Whether Adobe was lazy or just
    impatient, sweeping the incomplete into the same bundle with the complete, we
    don\u2019t know and they\u2019re not saying ...</cite>\r\n\r\nThe concept could
    not have been more simple: convert our Type 1 font library into OpenType format.
    I think Thomas's description of the process and decisions and reasoning was detailed
    and accurate. (Thanks, Thomas!)"
  created: '2006-11-26 18:22:16'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: Thanks Chris...I meant to cite Plantin as carrying expert fonts in type one;
    Photina, as you say, did not. According to the Precision Type Font Reference Guide
    Version 5.0 (1995), p. 305, Monotype Plantin 1 and 2 expert sets were offered
    by Adobe in type one, which makes their absence in Adobe's OT quite puzzling.
  created: '2006-11-26 19:16:42'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: Hmm, I see that. It looks like Precision Type's choice of format is misleading
    there, since they have their foundry codes next to the family name and don't seem
    to have a way to specify the extent of each particular foundry's offering. Despite
    what the PT guide (unfortunately) implies, Adobe never had the Type 1 Plantin
    expert fonts in its library.
  created: '2006-11-26 21:13:22'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: 'I just dug up my old type one Plantin Expert fonts, and under the screen
    fonts suitcase file "more info" in OSX it says they carry a 1991 copyright from
    Adobe. So I must have acquired them from Adobe. But thank you for checking at
    your end. Maybe Adobe somehow lost the rights to the expert sets after the mid-90s
    and before OT conversions, because in your Adobe type library reference book dated
    Oct. 2000, they don''t appear under Plantin, although other Monotypes still had
    their expert sets. A puzzle. '
  created: '2006-11-27 06:16:54'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "That's <em>really</em> weird. I have the Adobe 1991 type catalog here and
    there are no expert Plantin fonts listed there. (The 1990 Adobe catalog doesn't
    list <em>any</em> Plantin, so Adobe must have been added just after.)\r\n\r\nI'll
    ask around the office."
  created: '2006-11-27 07:06:13'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: '...and a "creation" date of June 1992, presumably followed by release. These
    are the Adobe-copyrighted Plantin expert fonts I''ve been using ever since. I
    tried to upload a screen snap of the file data, but it wouldn''t take.'
  created: '2006-11-27 08:04:56'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Thanks to whoever renamed the thread to a less offensive title.\r\n\r\nAh,
    David Lemon was good enough to explain it to us. Monotype licensed Adobe's Type
    1 font production tools to produce their own Type 1 versions of their fonts around
    1991, and that resulted in Adobe copyrights in the font files.\r\n\r\nMost of
    those same fonts were later licensed to Adobe and rebuilt by Adobe to our technical
    standards, but Plantin Expert was not among them. I can't say why.\r\n\r\nBut
    the rule of thumb is still simple: we converted everything that we had the rights
    to convert from Type 1 to OpenType, merging all supplemental fonts that were available
    to us at the time. We continue to sell the Type 1 versions, although they're a
    little harder to find on our Web site. So you can tell we didn't have Plantin
    Expert by seeing that we don't have it now. Go to the appropriate page for Plantin
    Std and click on the \"More Info\" tab at lower right, and you can find the Type
    1 fonts listed.\r\n\r\nOf course, if you want to know what's in the OpenType font,
    all you have to do is look at the cyan blue icons right on the main page for each
    font or family. Or you can download the PDF that shows every glyph in the font.
    It's not like we make it hard.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-11-27 22:17:15'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "Thanks Thomas for digging up what happened with Plantin. I revised the thread,
    not wishing to offend. We are still interested in what can be done in two areas,
    and would love your comments on:\r\n\r\n--can Adobe qualify their sales copy for
    the complete OT library Font Folio so customers have a clearer sense of what is
    and what isn't there in the way of glyph coverage? Specfically, can you summarize
    hundreds of glyph schedules in one place by listing which fonts/families offer
    complete glyphs, especially oldstyle figures; which offer limited glyphs; and
    which offer only the new Euro symbol? Helpful for buyers, good PR for Adobe, I
    should think.\r\n\r\n--longer term, what can be done by Adobe to acquire complete-glyph
    OT versions as they appear from licensors like Monotype or ITC? I presume they
    want a period of exclusivity, yet it is still a cherished wish of many here that
    Adobe's incomplete versions would in time all be replaced by completed versions,
    so that your OT library eventually can offer uniformly complete glyphs across
    the board."
  created: '2006-11-28 06:55:12'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Mondo, \r\n\r\n\"uniformly complete glyphs across the board\" is wishful
    thinking. Does having oldstyle numerals qualify as \"complete\"? Small caps? Central
    European diacritics? Case-sensitive forms? Ligatures? Basic Cyrillic? Extended
    (Central Asian) Cyrillic? Basic Greek? Polytonic Greek? Cyrillic and Greek smallcaps?
    \r\n\r\nWhat exactly is \"uniformly complete\"? For whom? For customers from USA?
    Canada? Brazil? Germany? France? Wales? Estonia? Poland? Greece? Turkey? Romania?
    Russia? Serbia and Montenegro? Kazakhstan? \r\n\r\nHow complete is *your* \"uniformly
    complete\"? \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nA.\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: mondoB
    body: twardoch, "complete" will always be a relative term. Since my usage stops
      at the Cyrillic border, I can't help you with many of these issues; Adobe meets
      my language needs now. I am concerned, however, to help the western-language
      designer conveniently get a clear idea of what he's buying with his thousands.
      Our needs center on style options, which for us are anything but frivolous.
      Maybe we just want oldstyle figures for our Meridien, and can't get them.
    created: '2006-11-29 18:44:44'
  created: '2006-11-28 15:52:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The architects of OpenType made the OpenType format inherently non-standard,
    by trying to cram as much as possible into a single font.\r\n\r\nIn particular,
    by mixing language features (encoding) with typographic features (\"expert\" sets).
    Expert features are inherently non-standard, whereas it is certainly possible
    to standardize language encodings.\r\n\r\nPerhaps the situation would be more
    \"standard\" if there were FOUR flavours of OpenType:\r\n\r\n1. Basic Language
    encoding -Std\r\n2. Basic Language encoding with Expert features - Pro\r\n3. Multiple
    language encodings - Multi-std\r\n4. Multiple language encodings with Expert features
    - Super Pro\r\n\r\nFrom a needs perspective, and from a cost-of-production perspective,
    this makes more sense -- for specialist foundries, and for users."
  created: '2006-11-28 21:38:25'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'd suggest that #4 would then be \"Multi-Pro\" in this system.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    saying \"Multi-Std\" and \"Multi-Pro\" equals \"multiple language encodings\"
    really tells any given user nothing useful. They don't know whether their particular
    language needs are met. At least with Adobe's system there is a guarantee, that
    \"Pro\" fonts have support for a defined central European character set, as well
    as the usual western one.\r\n\r\nI'll be the first to say that using \"Pro\" to
    designate language support rather than typographic goodies wasn't the best choice
    Adobe ever made. But with many hundreds of fonts out there, we are rather stuck
    with it. Other folks can do what they like, of course, though one rather thinks
    some consistent naming schemes would be good.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-11-29 03:28:57'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Thomas, \r\n\r\nI'd say the choice was good. The Adobe naming suggests that
    fonts without characters supporting *all* of EU's Latin-script language are less
    valuable than those that include all of them -- regardless of the fact how many
    small caps or ligatures they try to offer in exchange. \r\n\r\nLanguage coverage
    is like good nutrition and healthy style of living. Swashes and small caps are
    like make-up and nail polish. \r\n\r\nI have another naming scheme to offer: the
    fonts with just the Western character set are \"Minimal\", the ones with EU-wide
    Latin-script support are \"Standard\", and those that include all of Standard
    but offer something beyond that (small caps, swashes, Cyrillic, Greek) would be
    \"Pro\". \r\n\r\nUsing these terms, all of Adobe's Std fonts would be \"Min\",
    Linotype's \"Helvetica Neue Pro\" would actually be \"Std\", while I think all
    of Adobe's \"Pro\" fonts would keep the \"Pro\" label. \r\n\r\nI wish at some
    point, Adobe would at least leverage their \"Min\" character set support to my
    \"Std\" (or even better, \"Pro\"). \r\n\r\nPlease start with Utopia and Kepler,
    then Poetica :D\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-29 15:48:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Language coverage is like good nutrition and healthy style of living.
    Swashes and small caps are like make-up and nail polish.</em>\r\n\r\nYes to the
    first part.\r\nBut Swashes and small caps are the seasoning that make nourishment
    a pleasure."
  created: '2006-11-29 20:45:59'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "mondo, \r\n\r\nmy point exactly. Your \"complete\" is not my \"complete\".
    Therefore, it's pretty obvious that your hope for Adobe or some other foundry
    to offer \"uniformly complete glyphs across the board\" cannot be fulfilled, since
    there always will be natural differences: there will be a small number of fonts
    with a large, extensive character set, and a large number of fonts with a moderate
    or small character set. \r\n\r\nWe'll also differ in priorities: if Adobe ever
    has the capacities to extend the character sets of some of their fonts, your plea
    will be for old-style figures and mine will be for Central European characters.
    You could make a point that fonts without old-style figures are no better than
    Arial or Times New Roman, while I could make a point that fonts without CE characters
    are simply not usable at all in 40% of the European countries. Either way Adobe
    choses, one of us would be unhappy. It's not possible to please everyone. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: mondoB
    body: "\"It\u2019s not possible to please everyone.\"\r\n\r\nthey can sure get
      closer to that goal than they are now! Good place to start: what Adobe promises
      to OpenType customers in their English-language sales copy on-site--with fewer
      exceptions. In Adobe's OpenType library now, \"Std\" may mean a lot in one family,
      but just the Euro symbol in another. Just fulfilling their sales copy would
      be a notable step forward.\r\n\r\nI recently bought Storm Foundry's Regent II
      in PS type one, and they show a lot of CE accents in their glyph layout alongside
      the loaded OSFs...I wonder if their new OpenType version goes even further,
      to the point of satisfying both of us? An intriguing possibility.  \r\n\r\nIf
      I get a Czech or Estonian text, I do have options now from Adobe in my system.
      If some very sophisticated client wants oldstyle figures with Meridien, I don't
      have options."
    created: '2006-11-30 02:09:44'
  created: '2006-11-29 22:07:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>It\u2019s not possible to please everyone.</em>\r\n\r\nBut Cyrillic small
    caps shouldn't be too much trouble :-)\r\nThe trick is to make your Cyrillic lower
    case the same x-height as your Latin small caps. Then, if you keep the Cyrillic
    small caps the same x-height as the Cyrillic lower case, you only need to make
    three new glyphs. Still, there's kerning too, to do it right, but as it's an OT
    font, class kerning makes that easy."
  created: '2006-11-29 22:27:51'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Mondo, \r\n\r\nthe thing is, in Estonia, 99.9% of the text published is in
    Estonian. That doesn't have anything to do with \"client sophistication\", it
    simply limits the options down to 20% of the library or so. In other words, CE
    support is a *basic* requirement for many markets -- without it, the font is completely
    useless. Oldstyle figures always will remain a *sophisticated* extra. People will
    do without them, albeit they will complain. But this will not stop them from using
    the font on another occasion. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-11-30 11:31:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The devil is in all the legacy typefaces and all of the legal entanglements
    they bring.  This is a huge headache for old and very large foundries like Adobe,
    Linotype/Monotype that have bartered brides and prenuptual agreements with more
    parties than caterers dream of. Once the big foundries can step out of that quagmire
    and do new opentype faces from scratch, it becomes easier. All the \"new\" Adobe
    original post opentype era faces take language differences and support as well
    as features like OSF hand in hand.  I guess if you can get beyond the lawyers
    and brokered business deals all is well for the future. Until then, we are in
    litigation purgatory.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-30 17:08:58'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Mondo wrote a while back: \"The initiative for transforming type\r\nclassics
    into full-glyph OpenType has passed to others, notably Monotype and ITC. That\u2019s
    where the OT action is now: the new issues at fonts.com and itcfonts.com.\"\r\n\r\nThe
    first sentence is true, because those foundries (and Linotype) own most of the
    classic typefaces, and they are the only ones in a position to extend them further.\r\n\r\nThe
    second sentence is a matter of opinion, but what Chris wrote just above is very
    true - if you look at recent Adobe releases such as Garamond Premier and Bickham
    Script Pro (or our upcoming ones, Arno and Hypatia Sans), we have moved to a model
    where a typical new Adobe typeface comprises 12-50 fonts with 2500-3500 glyphs
    per font, language support including CE, Greek, Cyrillic and Vietnamese, and very
    extensive typographic features. I believe that Adobe continues to set and raise
    the bar for design and technical quality, language support and typographic features
    in new type releases.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-11-30 23:46:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">typical new Adobe typeface comprises 12-50 fonts with 2500-3500 glyphs per
    font\r\n\r\nHoly guacamole! How many folks does it take to produce a font like
    that? "
  created: '2006-11-30 23:57:49'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Well, at a minimum: one to design, one to do production work, and one to
    test. That's not including the external beta testers.\r\n\r\nBut the real question
    is *how long* does it take to produce a typeface like that. To which the answer
    is, a long time indeed (years, not months, usually). If we were doing more basic
    families, we'd be pumping out quite a few more typefaces per year.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-12-02 17:36:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"(or our upcoming ones, Arno and Hypatia Sans)\"\r\n\r\nHypatia is nudging
    its way to the finish line Thomas?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-02 21:05:32'
- author:
    name: ffetish
  body: 'Apart from cross-platform compatibility, what is the advantage of OpenType
    as far as the END USER is concerned, if the typeface doesn''t boast OT''s nifty
    accessibility to an expanded glyph pallette? None that I can see; might as well
    keep on using the Type 1 version of Photina, for example. Currently, as far as
    I can tell, one simply can''t obtain Photina''s oldstyle figures or small caps
    in any OTF version from any vendor (including Monotype, the font''s original publisher).
    This might be a special case, since Photina''s OsF''s and SC''s were pretty much
    design afterthoughts. But it sure puts a damper on the upbeat promotional guff
    coming from the OpenType vendors. '
  created: '2007-02-14 04:03:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't know anything about the character set in Photina but OpenType fonts
    which have a full feature set have much to offer the end user. The qualifier is
    that you must be using an application which supports opentype features. Right
    now, that is pretty much the Adobe Suite CS apps and to some degree the current
    version of Quark. Most apps will run the font but may not be coded to use all
    the features in it. What applications are you using and do you have any fullfeatured
    opentype fonts along the linesa of Adobe Garamond Premier Pro?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-14 04:22:09'
- author:
    name: ffetish
  body: "\"The qualifier is that you must be using an application which supports opentype
    features.\" \r\n\r\nAny current text editor application within Mac OS X supports
    the use of ligatures, etc.; how difficult would it be for Microsoft (ironically,
    one of the developers of OpenType) to implement the advanced typographic features
    promised by the format?  One suspects that, as with the development & distribution
    of OT font technology, commercial interests have limited the typographic capabilities
    of Microsoft Word - that particularly bloated white elephant. As for Photina,
    it has a very limited glyph set, at least by OpenType standards: no international
    alphabets or expert features. Such limitations are in no way overcome by the use
    of more sophisticated software applications; even if purchasing the most up-to-date
    font version, what is needed above all is a program that will support 'legacy'
    formats, such as PS-Type1 or TrueType (thankfully, neither Adobe nor Apple have
    yet deemed it profitable to phase out either). \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-14 06:33:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Si can give you a much better take on the Microsoft OTF development story.
    The only thing I can take from it is that it is far more complicated than it may
    seem to us on the outside. I think that developing the new font engine for Vista
    has something to do with it and deciding if it is the operating system or the
    application that will handle the load.\r\n\r\nSi, bail me out here, I am treading
    on a thin layer of conjecture!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-14 15:15:46'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Microsoft has implemented a very complete support for OpenType Layout features
    in WPF (Windows Presentation Foundation aka Avalon), the new graphic subsystem
    used by Windows Vista which uses an XML dialect called XAML to formulate user
    interfaces. Any application using WPF can make full use of OpenType Layout features.
    \r\n\r\nMicrosoft Word is far too complex an application to be rewritten completely
    to use WPF. So currently, it uses GDI as it did for years. But I think soon other
    applications will apear that will support OpenType Layout through WPF, which is
    no different than TextEdit supporting OpenType Layout through AAT. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-02-15 18:36:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Microsoft Word is far too complex an application ...\"\r\n\r\nYup.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-15 19:03:44'
- author:
    name: ffetish
  body: "\"Microsoft has implemented a very complete support for OpenType Layout features
    in WPF (Windows Presentation Foundation aka Avalon), the new graphic subsystem
    used by Windows Vista which uses an XML dialect called XAML to formulate user
    interfaces. Any application using WPF can make full use of OpenType Layout features.\"\r\n\r\nThat
    doesn't apply, then, to users of Microsoft Word in Mac OS X? Even the new version
    of Office still in development makes no mention of advanced OTF support. Could
    there be a commercial reason underlying such a curious absence? Just as, commercial
    interest underlie the decision to merely convert existing type libraries to OTF,
    rather than utilise the technology to its much-vaunted capacity? \r\n\r\nAdmittedly,
    Adobe's new fonts do make full use of the OT feature set. The more attention Adobe
    devotes to these new releases, the less it spends on fine-tuning typefaces from
    an earlier era - Photina, again, being a case in point. Admittedly, my own interest
    in the font is primarily historical; but then, the same could be said for, say,
    Adobe Garamond Premier Pro (or thousands of other digital fonts). "
  created: '2007-02-16 06:09:22'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "ffetish, \r\n\r\nthis doesn't apply to any Microsoft Office version, Windows
    or Mac. Microsoft Office for Windows supports OpenType Layout features but only
    for \"complex scripts\" (Hebrew, Arabic, Indic etc.) Microsoft Office for Mac
    does not support any OpenType Layout features at all. WPF and XAML are completely
    unrelated to Office. \r\n\r\nIf you're interested in XAML, check out the free
    beta versions of two Microsoft Expression applications: \r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/products/expression/en/Expression-Design/\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/products/expression/en/expression-blend/\r\n\r\nThey'll
    allow you to build XAML documents to which you can manually add styling code to
    enable various OpenType features. \r\n\r\nSee: \r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/links/news.aspx?NID=5759\r\n\r\n(Note
    that unfortunately, neither Expression Design nor Expression Blend allows you
    to author text using OpenType Layout features directly). \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2007-02-21 19:12:45'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Could there be a commercial reason underlying \r\n> such a curious absence?\r\n\r\nIn
    a healthy company, most reasons are commercial. \r\n\r\nIt seems that the benefit
    of having advanced typographic fireworks in Office application was not so far
    able to outweigh the cost of inducing uncertainties into such complex applications
    that need to deal with billions of legacy documents, and where text re-flow due
    to kerning changes or ligation would cause a lot of trouble. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-02-21 19:20:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...the benefit of having advanced typographic fireworks in Office application
    was not so far able to outweigh the cost of inducing uncertainties into such complex
    applications that need to deal with billions of legacy documents, and where text
    re-flow due to kerning changes or ligation would cause a lot of trouble.\"\r\n\r\nVery
    diplomatically put Adam :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-21 19:42:11'
- author:
    name: ffetish
  body: "I won't be holding my breath for Microsoft to come to the OpenType party
    - insofar as advanced typography (as opposed to international alphabet support)
    is concerned. There are an increasing number of wordprocessing competitors out
    there that can (1) alphabetically sort my huge list of fonts (for all its bells
    and whistles, Office 2004 for Mac just gives up!); and (2) automatically implement
    so-called 'advanced' typographic features, such as common ligatures. The disadvantage
    would seem to be that in sending .doc or .rtf to another user with Office, such
    features are automatically removed!\r\n\r\nBut since this thread was initially
    about the lack of typographic features being implemented by OT font developers,
    I might as well resume that thought here. I mentioned already Photina (a font
    for which small caps and text figures were added as an afterthought). But what
    about Esprit? To my knowledge, no current OT version of Esprit contains the expert
    features which are, as Robert Bringhurst suggests, integral to its design. In
    the case of these fonts, Type 1 (legacy) support is far more important than OpenType
    support at the application level. \r\n\r\nNo doubt further examples of certain
    gaps in the OT font development/conversion/licensing process could be adduced.
    \r\n\r\nOh, and just for the record - healthy companies don't always make for
    healthy consumers!"
  created: '2007-02-27 21:28:04'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite> Linotype/Monotype that have bartered brides and prenuptual agreements
    with more parties than caterers dream of. [\u2026] Once the big foundries can
    step out of that quagmire and do new opentype faces from scratch, it becomes easier.
    [\u2026]\r\nUntil then, we are in litigation purgatory. </cite>\r\n\r\nI like
    this\u2026 :=|"
  created: '2008-11-13 15:39:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, Claudio!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-11-13 16:22:30'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: '[Edit]'
  created: '2012-08-05 16:49:19'
date: '2006-11-17 09:45:16'
node_type: forum
title: ADOBE, WHAT HAPPENED? OTs released without OSFs

---
