---
author:
  name: jlt
  picture: 110270
body: "Can anyone tell me why so many of the new \"all inclusive\" pro [[opentype]]
  faces from a variety of foundries are being released with [[text figures|old-style
  numerals]] as part of the [[small capitals|small-caps]] set?\r\n\r\nI understand
  that there is a certain stylistic flair to using non-lining numerals with old style
  caps on title pages and in other decorative settings. However, it seems to me that
  small-cap heigh lining numerals are far more useful as part of the sc set/selection;
  9 times out of 10, those will be what a typesetter wants when he or she is setting
  small cap text.\r\n\r\nThe most ironic part is that a few of these faces HAVE such
  numerals in the font, but just not assigned to the small cap set!\r\n\r\nI assume
  I am missing something and everybody else in the world works very differently than
  I or any of the typesetters and designers I know. That's the only explanation I
  can come up with.\r\n\r\nJLT"
comments:
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: How would the features be named? If the SC feature has OSFs as default, how
    to get the lining SC figs to be included? One of them has to be default with small
    caps....
  created: '2006-11-17 18:30:52'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "I think it's ridiculous that SC has OsF as default. We only think it makes
    sense, I think, because they've been packaged that way for so long - many decades.
    But I think that was a marketing decision; certainly, even the metal typesetters
    I know pick those numerals and the SC apart when they distribute the type into
    a case, and don't use them side by side very often - especially not at text sizes.\r\n\r\nI'm
    assuming that the current custom to attach OsF to SC is simply a carryover from
    this, and from here it seems somewhat ridiculous - OTF sets should be organized
    around use, not arbitrary convention.\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt : http://www.hewnandhammered.com
    : rnrmf!"
  created: '2006-11-17 18:47:21'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "From a design point of view I agree with you Josh. I don't know the technical
    side well enough to understand the limitations. \r\n\r\nI'll second the desire
    to have smallcap height figures. Dolly, for instance, has gorgeous smallcap lining
    figures. (Although it isn't opentype so it is off-topic.)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-17 19:03:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Old style figures are near the small cap height normally. So they would suit
    the small caps better than lining figures. \r\n\r\nAren't small cap height lining
    numerals a new thing? \r\n\r\nAlso are they actually useful? How often do you
    need to set numerals with small caps outside of lower case text, where the OSF
    should work well?  "
  created: '2006-11-17 19:08:17'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "William: I am constantly called upon to use numerals with small caps in technical
    manuals, textbooks and government documents. I would say that I need them perhaps
    50% as often as I need OsF, and just as often as I need full-height lining numerals.\r\n\r\nI
    do not think they are necessarily a new invention, as some of the first Italian
    faces to have small caps as part of the metal family included them (as far as
    I remember; I think several cuts of Bodoni included them). They are fantastically
    useful, imho, but even more than that, not having them when you need them is tremendously
    disruptive.\r\n\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt : http://www.hewnandhammered.com : rnrmf!"
  created: '2006-11-17 19:12:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ok, let me ask another question then. Are OSF that are monospaced actually
    useful? \r\n\r\nMaybe sticking monospaced lining figures at smallcap height in
    that slot--which exists in InDesign--would work and serve all practical needs.
    Then you could just formulate a character style with both small caps and lining
    cap-height figures. How does that sound? "
  created: '2006-11-17 19:21:11'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: So replace monospaced OSFs with the preferred lining SC figs? Is there anyone
    on here who uses tabular OSFs?
  created: '2006-11-17 19:33:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have never heard of using tabular small caps figures.  If I were to do
    tabular work, I would just use the standard figures in a smaller point size if
    needed--but I have never needed.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-17 19:52:45'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Linotype's done a few type families with these. Avenir Next has them. A small
    display family I'm finishing up also has them. Most of the time, whether these
    are designed comes from whether the designer sees them as important or not. I
    also think that this is sort of a \"new\" (but good) thing. I seem to remember
    old, \"classic\" typography mixing SC with OsFs all the time. In fact, I never
    had even heard about SC figures before I came to Linotype. But maybe I was just
    living under a tree or something\u2026"
  created: '2006-11-17 19:53:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Yes, Carl put my question it more succinctly. \r\n\r\nAs Chris has never
    heard of it, Joshua, can you show us come examples of where the lining small cap
    height numerals are much better?"
  created: '2006-11-17 19:55:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Paul Rand used tabular OSF in some old Westinghouse annual reports.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-17 19:55:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Lining smallcap height proportional is different than lining smallcap height
    tabular.  It's the tabular that I have not seen. I have actually designed 2 faces
    with smallcap height proportional figures.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-17 19:58:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">It\u2019s the tabular that I have not seen.\r\n\r\nOh, I see. The question
    is really: What is useful? and Can you fit it into the existing programs so it
    is accessible? "
  created: '2006-11-17 20:44:31'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Here's the Adobe insight on this one:\r\n-- (You're right that) oldstyle
    figures are the traditional form to be used with small caps, and that's what Adobe
    does in our fonts' small-cap layout features.\r\n-- Any font developer who wishes
    to can easily add lining figures of small-cap height to their fonts' small-cap
    layout features\r\n-- Font developers can also add such figures as a stand-alone
    feature (a stylistic set)*. Both approaches are well-supported in InDesign & Illustrator.\r\n\r\n*
    or \"hook\" the glyphs directly to the features 'smcp' and 'c2sc'"
  created: '2006-11-17 21:12:46'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Clearly a lot of us are unfamiliar with small-cap tabular (monospaced) figs.
    But Tiff''s question, and one I would like to pursue is: Does anyone use <strong>tabular
    Oldstyle figures?</strong> Because it would be convenient to put the "new" tabular
    small cap figures in those slots, if nobody''s using them.'
  created: '2006-11-17 21:33:08'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "Sorry, need to be more specific. I do not need tabular sc-height figures!
    In the books and government reports I usually set, proportional but lining small
    cap height numerals would be fine.\r\n\r\nYes, if you like, I can find some examples
    of work I've done that would have benefited from such figures. And Carl, please
    do not delay anything you are working on because of me! I'm thinking out loud
    about little things that might take advantage of the OTF technology and make my
    work a bit easier.\r\n\r\nMiguel, is there a way for a USER to override the stylistic
    sets? Custom sets, maybe? That way, one face I work with regularly, which does
    indeed have small cap height proportional lining numerals (from here on referred
    to at SCHPLN, pronounced \"askdjadlkjhsdkjfh\") but which does not have them as
    the default character set for small caps, would be able to be used in the way
    I'm wishing for.\r\n\r\nWow, that was a good run-on sentence.\r\n\r\nAnyway. Basically,
    here's all I wanted to say:\r\n\r\nI would like to see more lining small cap proportional
    numerals in text faces, and I would like to see them as the default figure style
    in the small cap stylistic set, and barring that I'd like a way to customize stylistic
    sets so that I can use them with small caps without changing sets/fonts/whatever.\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt
    : http://www.hewnandhammered.com : rnrmf!"
  created: '2006-11-17 22:21:46'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "A couple of things:\r\n\r\n- people do use tabular OsF. I've used them in
    real work. They're not as common as the other permutations. More importantly,
    hijacking a feature for some other usage is generally a dubious choice, IMO. \r\n\r\n-
    although InDesign supports stylistic sets, AFAIK neither Illustrator nor QuarkXPress
    does, as yet.\r\n\r\n- jlt: No stylistic sets are on by default. The way you override
    a stylistic set is to turn it (back) off. Stylistic sets are a group of 20 features,
    numbered 1-20. Small caps are not a stylistic set (unless you wish to make them
    so, but I can't see why).\r\n\r\nOops, gotta run and go get some stitches out.
    Maybe somebody else can explain stylistic sets better to Joshua. Or maybe just
    reading the right section of the OpenType spec will help: http://www.microsoft.com/typography/OTSPEC/features_pt.htm#ssxx\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-17 22:42:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Are OSF that are monospaced actually useful?\r\n\r\nAll kinds of things
    are useful.\r\nAnd fixed-width OS numerals can certainly look awesome:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OSFmono_5845.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-17 23:01:34'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Miguel, is there a way for a USER to override the stylistic sets? Custom
    sets, maybe?</em>\r\n\r\nYou mean, as a user you want to change the behavior of
    a particular stylistic set of a given released font?* The answer is no.\r\n\r\n*
    let's suppose that a font's stylistic set 1 changes the double-story 'a' to a
    single-story 'a', and open 'g' to a binocular 'g'; and you only want 'a' to change."
  created: '2006-11-17 23:02:38'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"And fixed-width OS numerals can certainly look awesome:\"\r\n\r\nBut what
    about the USER's needs, Hrant?  This is design, not art! ; )"
  created: '2006-11-17 23:20:42'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "I just want lining numerals that match my small caps, that's all. nothing
    fancy... not OsF, not tabular. Just lining numerals that don't look out of place
    with small caps.\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt : http://www.hewnandhammered.com : rnrmf!"
  created: '2006-11-18 00:04:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My wishlist would be for OTF sets to have names defined by the type designer
    instead of numbers. This would make what the set does be more apparent to the
    user. There could be a stylistic set called \"Small Cap Lining figures\" or what
    vere descrptive name.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-18 01:01:24'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>My wishlist would be for OTF sets to have names defined by the type designer
    instead of numbers. This would make what the set does be more apparent to the
    user. There could be a stylistic set called \u201CSmall Cap Lining figures\u201D
    or what vere descrptive name.</em>\r\n\r\nI believe the thinking on this is that
    it is impractical to expect this to make any more sense to non-English users,
    unless the type designer interprets these descriptions into every language which
    the font might be used in."
  created: '2006-11-18 01:08:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Carl: Very. Funny. Ha. Ha.\r\n\r\nBTW, what's ironic about the rarity of
    fixed-width OS nums is that they're actually easier to make look nice* than proportional
    OS nums! I have to think that people naively migrated Regularity from the horizontal
    dimension (where it can very often make sense) to the vertical dimension (where
    it typically backfires, except for all-caps setting).\r\n\r\n* FYI, all your base
    are belong to us.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-18 01:24:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"designer interprets these descriptions into every language which the font
    might be used in.\"\r\n\r\nBundle Babelfish with FontLab? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-18 04:55:06'
- author:
    name: Village
  body: "To respond to something Dezcom posted above: font families' tabular figures
    should all have the same tabular width in all weights. This is very important
    when setting financials in annual reports, where font weights, underlines, and
    alignments are actually dictated by SEC standards. So, to simply use a smaller
    point size would result in a narrower setting, breaking the tabularity. (Also
    useful in timetables, listings, etc, etc.)\r\n\r\nIn my experience, it's a challenge
    to get an OsF \"2\" looking good. The other glyphs are all pretty self-evident.\r\n\r\nFWIW,
    the Apex New family has small cap lining numerals which are turned on with the
    small caps, in both proportional and tabular versions."
  created: '2006-11-18 05:47:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it\u2019s a challenge to get an OsF \u201C2\u201D looking good.\r\n\r\nI've
    long said that the OS \"2\" should ascend. And there's one font that\r\nhas actually
    has that, and it's not obscure either. Yes, this is a test.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-18 06:11:53'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>I believe the thinking on this is that it is impractical to expect this
    to make any more sense to non-English users, unless the type designer interprets
    these descriptions into every language which the font might be used in.</em>\r\n\r\nReally?
    I assumed it was an mistake. Since \"Stylistic Set 1\" doesn't mean anything in
    any language other than English, nor does \"Default Ligatures\", I'm not buying
    it.  The inability to custom-name custom-use fields is probably my very least
    favorite aspect of OpenType. It makes no sense. English is the most international
    language, and there is other components of a font that support that.There are
    not specific fields for for every language for every other aspect of a font file's
    data (although there are some, which are customizable and optional). Additionally,
    not only is English used for the default names of existing explicit OT features,
    it is used for the standard glyph names, as well other aspects of fontery.\r\n\r\nI
    think it would be a lot better idea to make the sets named (perhaps with a \"Stylistic
    Set #:\" prefix) and let the designers do the designing and naming in the file.
    \ A stylistic set being named in non-English would still assist me, speaking English,
    as I would learn to recognize foreign words if I really came across them a lot,
    and to speed up recognition of already known features of a font. Its a far more
    workable solution than expecting designers to put out a lengthy guide to each
    feature-rich font's intracacies. Then, what, translate that into several dozen
    tongues? And make the consumer track that added separate file? Yucky.\r\n\r\nI
    think more likely, this was an oversight, low priority at creation, out-of-budget
    or a mistake. Since the current folk explanation are dubious, I hope when OT grows
    up, this will be one of several small refinements. So, here's my suggestion to
    the logical successor in today's technology trends, back-compatible ExtensibleOpenType.
    Or .XOT for short. :)\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The
    Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-11-20 16:16:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...impractical to expect this to make any more sense to non-English users,
    unless the type designer interprets these descriptions into every language...\"\r\n\r\nThere
    could also be a list of common features that could be selected from a menu in
    the language of the designer. These common names could then be translated via
    lookup tables to the default language of the user's computer. This may not be
    perfect but it sure breats the hell out of vague stylistic set numbers which communicate
    nothing. There could even be a script to look at what is in the OTF feature code
    and give a rough translation into the host language. If class names were standardized,
    this would be much simpler.\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-20 18:59:33'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Currently, no names for any features are encoded in the font; only the four-letter
    code is. Because the features have static meanings, the application developer
    can translate them into whatever languages they need, along with the rest of their
    user interface.\r\n\r\nI don't have any particular objection to a system that
    would supplement the existing four-letter codes for stylistic sets with desriptive
    text. The 'name' table is in fact designed to do a range of strange things that
    would easily encompass this. It would be the responsibility of the font designer
    to decide how many languages to translate this descriptive text into, and if they
    didn't cover a given language, it would be up to the application to determine
    a fallback or simply display something generic like \"stylistic set #4\" - which
    is no worse than what we have today.\r\n\r\nIf somebody wants to go to the work
    of creating a formal proposal in the appropriate language for the OpenType and/or
    Open Font Format specs, they should feel free. That's your next step, if you want
    to do something about what you see as a problem....\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-11-20 19:14:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"If somebody wants to go to the work of creating a formal proposal in the
    appropriate language for the OpenType and/or Open Font Format specs, they should
    feel free.\"\r\n\r\nThomas, What is the appropriate language and format? Can anyone
    \ make such a proposal? To whom would I send it?\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: I started
    a new thread on feature sets to address this concept.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/29648"
  created: '2006-11-20 19:54:21'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "JLT\u2014 I have them in the regular weight of Feijoa\u2026\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2006-11-21 00:08:29'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Aside from the use of stylistic sets for this, MS says they are eager to
    hear suggestions for new tags, and will handle all the technical bits if they
    approve. Not sure of how often they do this, or if they have that all sewn up
    without interacting with Adobe. There is also a way to register features as not
    Adobe/MS; Emigre has done this. Nevertheless, to mimic the existing feature names,
    I suggest &lt;scln&gt; for Small Capitals (sized) Lining Figures. Perhaps there
    should be a &lt;sctn&gt; for Small Capitals (sized) Text Figures, as well, so
    that one or the other could be included, complimenting the default choice.\r\n\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-11-21 05:09:47'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "I just got around to reading this thread. I thought I would mention one more
    thing about tabular old style figures: One thing that has been interesting to
    watch is Robert Slimbach's evolving \"design strategy\" (to coin a phrase) for
    these glyphs.\r\n\r\nWhen we began to convert our fonts to OpenType, the Adobe
    Originals which had old style figures to begin with (which then typically had
    tabular lining and proportional old style figures) all were upgraded to the full
    set of four number styles (adding fitted lining and tabular old style figures).
    We struggled for a while to adapt the existing old style figures to the tabular
    widths, and Robert or someone else would tweak a number or two to improve their
    looks. Robert, along with everyone else, would think of old style figures as \"naturally\"
    proportional. It seemed strange and awkward to try to shoehorn them into tabular
    widths.\r\n\r\nToday, Robert simply designs all the figures in his new typefaces
    to be tabular. He's found that the numbers, both lining and old style, work with
    tabular widths quite well if they're conceived that way to begin with. It's much
    easier to design them that way and then re-fit them for their proportionally-spaced
    companions, rather than going the other direction."
  created: '2006-11-21 08:40:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> He\u2019s found that the numbers, both lining and old style, work with\r\n>
    tabular widths quite well if they\u2019re conceived that way to begin with.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    he's found what he wanted to find? Just like with his non-trapping.\r\nThe numeral
    one does not work well in a tabular scheme, period.\r\n\r\nAnyway, now that we
    know what Robert Robert Robert thinks, what do <cite>you</cite> think?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-21 14:55:38'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "Hrant, you're like one of those people who listens to a radio station they
    hate and then complains about it. If you're not interested in anything which originates
    with Robert, then just skip the post.\r\n\r\nHere's the deal: I've worked with
    Robert quite a while. He shares some of his ideas with me, and sometimes they
    make an impression. Since Robert is not one to participate in Typophile threads
    and the like, I occasionally will pass on something I've learned or observed from
    him if I think it's relevant. I can tell that you're not interested in hearing
    about it, but it's not going to stop, so what's the point of being a grouch about
    it?\r\n\r\nAnyway, back to the topic at hand:\r\n\r\n<cite>Maybe he's found what
    he wanted to find? Just like with his non-trapping. The numeral one does not work
    well in a tabular scheme, period.</cite>\r\n\r\nDuh. The point was that, if one
    has a font in which tabular numbers will be included, it saves time and effort
    to design them on tabular widths first, and then make adjustments for proportional
    versions, rather than the other way around. Obviously the 'one' will always be
    problematic, so the choice in solving that problem becomes either to not make
    tabular figures at all, or consider better ways to design them.\r\n\r\n<cite>Anyway,
    now that we know what Robert Robert Robert thinks, what do you think?</cite>\r\n\r\nRobert
    has far more experience with designing fonts than I do, so it seemed to me that
    his approach might be more valuable -- but since you asked, it makes sense to
    me. It's not that it's such an original or ingenious idea, but I find it interesting
    that one can become so accustomed to this notion that old style figures are inherently
    proportional, and exacerbate the challenge of fitting them to tabular widths.
    By changing one's habits, one can save some labor by approaching them from a different
    direction."
  created: '2006-11-22 20:08:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This is not a radio station. Which is lucky for me, since I don't listen
    to radio.\r\n\r\n> If you\u2019re not interested in anything which originates
    with Robert\r\n\r\nI'm sorry, I didn't realize you originate with Robert.\r\nSounds
    more extreme than the name of one of his fonts.\r\n\r\nI'm interested in <cite>your</cite>
    opinion, not least because you're here. I'm also interested in the opinions of
    people who are not here, but when they're not here to elaborate and/or defend,
    it's kind of annoying when it's presented as authoritative. Yes, one shouldn't
    shoot the messenger, but <cite>shouting</cite> at the messenger can be therapeutic.\r\n\r\n>
    Obviously the \u2018one\u2019 will always be problematic\r\n\r\nI'm glad you've
    now corrected \"He\u2019s found that the numbers, both lining and old style, work
    with tabular widths quite well if they\u2019re conceived that way to begin with.\"
    which is something pretty specific you claimed above, and which was specifically
    what I was countering above. The numeral one (you know, the most frequently ocurring
    numeral) does NOT end up working \"quite well\" tabularly, no matter where you
    start what.\r\n\r\nSo now I'm not sure: what does Robert -really- think again?\r\n\r\n>
    his approach might be more valuable\r\n\r\nIt is, but:\r\n1) Yours is not worthless.\r\n2)
    Again, you're here, and that's valuable.\r\n\r\n> I find it interesting that one
    can become so accustomed to\r\n> this notion that old style figures are inherently
    proportional\r\n\r\nIndeed. Please re-read my second post in this thread.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-22 22:30:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, no takers on the quiz in my third post?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-22 22:38:09'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "Hrant, I know you've been through all this with practically everyone else
    here, but just for the record, I don't think your approach enhances or enriches
    the discussion here. I do not understand why you choose to be gratuitously argumentative
    when the meaning is reasonably clear. For example:\r\n\r\n<cite>I'm sorry, I didn't
    realize you originate with Robert.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't. Obviously, the idea
    I was describing originated with Robert.\r\n\r\n<cite>The numeral one (you know,
    the most frequently occurring numeral) does NOT end up working \"quite well\"
    tabularly, no matter where you start...</cite>\r\n\r\nTo fixate on the problems
    of a particular number is a valid discussion to have, but a distraction from my
    original point. Numbers are a set, and I am talking about considering the success
    of the set overall -- just like deciding whether an alphabet works \"quite well\"
    without fixating on some particular letter, the shape of which one is stuck with.
    \"Quite well\" is relative and subjective, so despite 'one' being problematic,
    one can consider the overall set of tabular numbers successful to some degree
    or another and fairly apply that description, I believe. If you don't agree, that's
    fine.\r\n\r\n<cite>So now I'm not sure: what does Robert -really- think again?</cite>\r\n\r\nAs
    I said, I believe Robert is happier with tabular numbers when they are designed
    first for tabular widths and adapted for proportional spacing. \"Quite well\"
    is my characterization, but I believe it's fair to say he's \"satisfied\" and
    considers it an improvement over the previous practice of designing the old style
    numerals proportionally to start. I am not interested in becoming a middleman
    for Robert on this board, so I kindly ask that you consider the overall idea,
    which I believe is pretty clear without analyzing every word.\r\n\r\n<cite>...
    it's kind of annoying when it's presented as authoritative.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't
    see how it's presented as more \"authoritative\" than anything else anyone says
    here. Really, I'm just trying to pitch in and contribute an interesting idea or
    two here. That you find this all so provocative is far beyond my intention, and
    also tiring.\r\n\r\n<cite>Again, you\u2019re here, and that\u2019s valuable.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    I suppose will continue to be a problem for you is that I have spent the last
    nine years working here directly with Robert. It will be difficult for me to talk
    about type without occasionally referring to things he's said or done. If you
    are getting the impression that Robert is somehow hiding behind me or using me
    as a mouthpiece, I assure it's not so. I'm just sharing my experience."
  created: '2006-11-23 08:14:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And elaborate defense to avoid admitting a mistake\r\nis what's \"gratuitously
    argumentative\" in my book.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-25 15:26:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Christopher, as one of my pet peeves is the conflation of argument and quarrelling,
    please allow me some some definitional clarification:\r\n\r\nconversation = talk
    about any topic, often for the pleasure of it, changing topics at will. \r\n\r\ndiscussion
    = conversation that sticks to one topic\r\n\r\nargument = 1. a reason given for
    or against a claim concerning a particular topic. 2. a discussion containing such
    reasons. \r\n\r\nquarrel = a personal dispute involving the alleging faults or
    wrongdoing of the other person.\r\n\r\ninsult = attack on the other person's character.
    \r\n\r\nTo me Hrant's arguing is a positive feature of his participation, as it
    is thought-provoking and interesting. He often has interesting points to make.
    And that is a valuable contribution even when they are mistaken points--which
    I think they are half the time. \r\n\r\nIn my view, what makes Hrant's manners
    barbarous is that instead of sticking to argument proper, he regularly resorts
    to insults and turns the argument into a quarrel.\r\n\r\nThis is to the point
    where I am resolved to avoid discussion with Hrant.     \r\n\r\nHrant is a thoughtful
    and interesting fellow who is often the life of the party on Typophile. But he
    is also so relentlessly quarrelsome that he regularly spoils the party. An unusual
    combination--the one and only hhp. "
  created: '2006-11-25 15:52:06'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "You can have small-cap lining numerals in your font, but there is no need
    to hijack any feature for that. You just implement them the way they should be
    done, i.e. in the \"smcp\" feature (where else?) \r\n\r\nI've posted an appropriate
    code snippet here: \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/29648/#comment-170126\r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-25 16:27:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, only barbarians don't use press releases to manipulate people  and cover
    up the truth. To remain civilized, one must ignore the fact that one is dealing
    with actual people, and focus on dead-end theorizing, with a smile. A cocktail
    party. Or a remote-controlled war. That is what ensures the status quo, the maintaining
    of Traditional Values.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-25 16:34:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>(where else?)</em>\r\n\r\nSmall lining figures have to be made anyway,
    for arbitrary fractions, and for superior and inferior figures, so it's not much
    work to do a set that sit on the baseline and line with the small caps, and include
    them in the \"all small caps\" feature -- but the \"caps with small caps\" feature
    should use proportional OSF, shouldn't it?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/scosf2_5256.png]"
  created: '2006-11-25 22:40:09'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I thought the point of the OP was that you couldn't put small lining and
    small text figures in the same smcp?\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-11-26 00:56:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There are two separate OpenType features:\r\n\r\nc2sc -- this is in the \"third
    level\" InDesign menu, and only works for OT fonts. \r\nsmcp -- this in in the
    \"second level\" InD menu, and produces faux small caps if there are no true small
    caps in the font, and proper (caps-with-)small-caps if there is the smcp feature
    in the OT font.\r\n\r\nSo if the foundry doesn't include  any figures in the smcp
    feature, the user will get the default figures; however, the foundry may have
    lining figures as default, and include OSF figures in the smcp feature. Whatever,
    if the foundry includes small-cap-height lining figures in the c2sc feature, then
    the user will get the 3rd style I showed above."
  created: '2006-11-26 03:47:44'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>And elaborate defense to avoid admitting a mistake is what\u2019s \u201Cgratuitously
    argumentative\u201D in my book.</cite>\r\n\r\nHrant, I was trying to explain the
    substance of my original point, which you have consistently ignored in favor of
    your own tangential arguments -- the pertinence of which I have yet to be convinced.
    This is the second thread in which I have tried to do so, and by now I am fairly
    well convinced I am wasting my time."
  created: '2006-11-26 08:46:03'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\nit is indeed an interesting suggestion to associate old-style
    numerals with \"smcp\" (since this usually means mixed uppercase and smallcaps
    settings) while associating the lining smallcap figures with \"c2sc\" (because
    usually, this means that \"c2sc\"+\"smcp\" are activated together to get all-smallcap
    setting). \r\n\r\nThe code snippet I posted in the other thread could be extended
    accordingly. \r\n\r\nA. "
  created: '2006-11-26 08:55:19'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: It's an interesting idea, but personally I would be inclined to keep it simpler
    for the user and have both 'smcp' and 'c2sc' apply the small cap figures, and
    then have the various number features ('lnum', 'onum') change the style further
    if desired. It seems like it would adapt to the application UI's a little more
    naturally.
  created: '2006-11-26 18:30:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/smcp3_3564.png]\r\nChris, I wouldn't
    privilege the functionality of a UI over typographic functionality. What you are
    proposing as a default for 'smcp' (centre example) is not very useful.\r\n\r\nWith
    regards to Joshua's and Tiffany's assessments of what the standard figures for
    use with small caps should be, based on usage situations, it's debatable but certainly
    varied. IMO the primary usage of small caps, across the board, is in Caps-with-small-caps
    settings. This applies to what I consider to be the two main instances: (i) With
    extended U&lc text, either for paragraph lead-ins (see example), or for highlighted
    names. Personally, I prefer all small caps in these situations, but my taste is
    somewhat old-fashioned and probably in the minority. In these mixed settings,
    OSF is surely the norm -- although I would be interested in seeing some of Joshua's
    typography.  (ii) A complete setting in Caps-with-small caps, such as a subheading
    on a package; again, OSF seem to harmonize better in this more \"decorative\"
    situation. \r\n\r\nIn the second place, on a purely empirical analysis, surely
    caps-with-small-caps has a visual similarity with OSF -- both mainly occupy an
    \"x-height\", with the occasional extender. This is why I believe the centre setting
    above doesn't look as good as the other two, because the figures lack presence.
    So, to keep it simple for the user, it makes sense to pair the figure and SC styles
    on the basis of formal harmony, rather than arbitrarily assign one figure style
    to both SC variants. \r\n\r\nIn the third place, both the OpenType feature code,
    smcp, and Adobe's UI implementation of it, \"small caps\" are incorrect and misleading,
    They would be more accurately named as \"cwsc\" and \"caps with small caps\".
    By the same token c2sc should be \"alsc\" (all small caps). \r\n\r\nAlso, Adobe's
    UI implementation of the four OT figure styles (lnum, pnum, onum, tnum) is problematic,
    presupposing a set of four combinations of these. But what if a font has only
    lining figures? The OSF options still appear in the OT menu. (Quark does a more
    logical job of implementing figure styles in its UI.) So again, it's not a good
    idea to put a less than perfect UI in the driver's seat. And I hope that Thomas
    will agree, as his philosophy of \"the fonts will survive\" is part of my reasoning
    here."
  created: '2006-11-26 21:57:54'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\n\"c2sc\" is *NOT* all small caps. \"c2sc\" is small caps from
    capitals. It only transforms uppercase to small caps, leaving the lowercase untouched.
    The Adobe UI checkbox \"All small caps\" turns on \"c2sc\" and \"smcp\" at the
    same time. \r\n\r\nOpenType Layout features can specify what gets substituted
    but they cannot necessarily specify what does NOT get substituted by the means
    of other features being applied at the same time. Therefore, a name such as \"cwsc\"
    (\"caps with small caps\") would promise something it couldn't deliver. It would
    promise the user that he gets both caps and small caps. However, if the user applies
    \"c2sc\" and \"smcp\"/\"cwsc\" at the same time (as the Adobe UI element \"All
    small caps\" does), then the result would be all small caps. So the caps wouldn't
    be there anymore though one of the feature names would suggest that they are there.
    \r\n\r\nShort: each feature should mind its own field. \r\n\r\nThe only reasonable
    alternative for \"smcp\" would be \"l2sc\" (lowercase to small caps), but it doesn't
    really matter much since the four-letter OpenType Layout feature codes are not
    actually designed to be exposed in user interfaces. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-27 00:09:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks for the clarification Adam.\r\n\r\n<em>each feature should mind its
    own field.</em>\r\n\r\nI agree, and applications should also, with appropriate
    naming.\r\n\r\nHere's my ideal menu format for figures:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OTmenu_4930.png]\r\n\r\nAnd
    here's the menu for small caps:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Menu2_5425.png]\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-27 04:28:29'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\n1. A separate \"small caps lining\" switch for figures would
    presume that there is a separate feature for small caps figures. Currently, there
    is none, and I don't think registering one would be a good idea. If you do, what
    do you do if you want to include a set of petite caps lining figures to accompany
    your petite caps (\"pcap\")? Register a yet another feature? \r\n\r\n2. I think
    \"Caps with small caps\" can be shortened to \"Small caps\", and that's what Adobe
    did. Linguistically, \"caps with small caps\" sounds awkward, especially if translated
    into other languages (German: \"Gro\xDFbuchstaben mit Kapit\xE4lchen\" or \"Versalien
    mit Kapit\xE4lchen\"). This becomes far too long for a UI entry. \r\n\r\n3. I
    do sympathize with the complaint regarding the UI for the basic figure styles.
    In Apple's UI, the alignment and the proportion are separated. On the other hand,
    having multiple selections always introduces complexity to the flow. Your UI is
    two-tier -- Adobe certainly did not want to produce a \"tree structure\". I for
    my part think Adobe did a reasonable job in compromising flexibility and usability.
    \r\n\r\n4. Your UI sketch seems to have extra checkboxes next to the categories
    and checkboxes next to the entries in the categories. What is supposed to happen
    if a user clicks on the box \"Lining\"? Will \"Tabular\" be automatically selected?
    What will happen if the user selects \"Tabular\" in the \"Lining\" group? Why
    are there two ways of selecting \"Tabular Lining\" -- through \"Lining\" and through
    \"Tabular\" in the \"Lining\" group. Or is \"Lining\" not a clickable item? If
    so, why does it have a checkbox? \r\n\r\nIn my work as FontLab product manager,
    I get to discuss and optimize user interfaces a lot, and have spent some time
    studying usability issues. I must admit that your menu is not so good, usability-wise.
    Sometimes, it's necessary to step out of the \"designer's mind\" or the \"engineer's
    mind\" and to adopt a \"user's mind\". I believe this is what Adobe did in the
    Creative Suite apps. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-27 09:10:11'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>I wouldn\u2019t privilege the functionality of a UI over typographic
    functionality.</cite>\r\n\r\nSorry, I didn't mean to say that -- and I wasn't
    thinking of any particular UI (e.g. InDesign). I only meant that it made more
    sense to me to have numbers which are designed to match the small caps <em>in</em>
    both small caps features, and that that would benefit the interface by being a
    natural place for the user to look for them (since there is not a feature specifically
    for such numbers). So, in other words, putting glyphs in the appropriate feature
    should make finding and using them easier.\r\n\r\nHaving such numbers in <em>both</em>
    smcp and c2sc doesn't seem so important to me (maybe just c2sc is enough), but
    I wouldn't want to put one kind of number in c2sc and another in smcp. I think
    that would be getting a little complicated.\r\n\r\nNotice, by the way, that in
    my suggestion, if you had some text to which you had already applied old style
    figures, applying small caps to some text containing numbers would get you small
    caps and old style figures (because the onum feature would be superceding smcp).\r\n\r\nIn
    any case, I am still not so sure it's a good idea in general to have number substitutions
    happening in small caps features. (And by \"not so sure,\" I mean that I think
    there are decent arguments on both sides of the issue.)"
  created: '2006-11-27 19:14:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>1. A separate \u201Csmall caps lining\u201D switch for figures would
    presume that there is a separate feature for small caps figures. </em>\r\n\r\nNot
    necessarily. This would simply activate the smcp feature, and presumably the foundry
    would have placed lining small cap figures in the feature. If they had not put
    any figures in the feature, the default figures, or whatever other figures had
    been previously specified, would remain, and no change would occur. There are
    many precedents for clicking on a feature and nothing happening. However, if the
    foundry had put OSF in the small caps feature, it wouldn't work properly -- but
    why would they, if they were familiar with a UI implementation like this? \r\n\r\nBut
    a separate feature for small cap lining figures is a great idea, and would probably
    please Joshua, Tiffany, et al.\r\n\r\n<em>2. I think \u201CCaps with small caps\u201D
    can be shortened to \u201CSmall caps\u201D,</em>\r\n\r\nSure, the full \"Caps
    with small caps\" is cumbersome, but it is correct, and makes perfect sense as
    the alternative to \"All small caps\".\r\n\r\n<em>Your UI is two-tier \u2014 Adobe
    certainly did not want to produce a \u201Ctree structure\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    don't think having a two-tier implementation is bad, in fact, it exposes the logic
    behind the choices the user can make. Anyway, both tiers are visible on the same
    palette, and the default would be \"pre-selected\", which I don't show in my diagram.\r\n\r\n<em>What
    is supposed to happen if a user clicks on the box \u201CLining\u201D? Will \u201CTabular\u201D
    be automatically selected? </em>\r\n\r\nWhatever is the default will already be
    showing. So for a standard font, \"Lining\" will be checked, and \"Tabular\" underneath
    it. Then if the user wants proportional OSF, click on Old Style, and Proportional
    under that, and the previous selections toggle off.\r\n\r\n<em>Sometimes, it\u2019s
    necessary to step out of the \u201Cdesigner\u2019s mind\u201D or the \u201Cengineer\u2019s
    mind\u201D and to adopt a \u201Cuser\u2019s mind\u201D. I believe this is what
    Adobe did in the Creative Suite apps. </em>\r\n\r\nAdam, I know it's hard to imagine
    how an interface works from a static diagram, but my scheme is perfectly viable,
    usability-wise. As an art director who has been a page-layout application user
    for 18 years, both Quark and now InDesign for 4 years, I would say I qualify for
    \"user's mind\".\r\n\r\nI agree with you that the CS apps are in general user-friendly,
    but with the exception of OpenType implementation, which is a dog's breakfast
    -- inconsistent across applications, and split between two buried levels of palette
    in InDesign. Consider that on the first level there are both \"small caps\" and
    \"superscript\" -- one implements the correct OT feature if it's in the font (but
    doesn't let you know whether or not), the other gives you faux, and also doesn't
    tell you. By trying to please too hard, the UI design is compromised. \r\n\r\nReally,
    a warning should pop up when users click on faux effects. You know, like the ones
    in FontLab that say \"You are trying to apply a dangerous operation...\" in bold
    face every time I import metrics into a font.\r\n\r\n\"Warning: you are attempting
    to apply a faux typographic effect that may cause discerning readers to wince.\""
  created: '2006-11-27 21:16:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">OpenType implementation ...is a dog\u2019s breakfast \u2014 inconsistent
    across applications, and split between two buried levels of palette in InDesign.\r\n\r\nRight
    on, Nick. Everything on one layer, with defaults checked. \r\n\r\nIf we had the
    whole of open type formatting options on one dialogue box similar to the one he
    shows above it would be a definite improvement. Dialogue boxes can be big, if
    they are clear. "
  created: '2006-11-27 21:28:38'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>Whatever is the default will already be showing. So for a standard
    font, \u201CLining\u201D will be checked, and \u201CTabular\u201D underneath it.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut
    the app isn't going to know what the default is (unless it's picking something
    for itself). The so-called default figures are whatever glyph is named \"one,\"
    \"two,\" etc. If a font has proportional old style figures with these names, the
    app will see these as \"default,\" but has no way of knowing if they are tabular,
    proportional, or whatever. It has to apply a layout feature before it can \"know\"
    what it has."
  created: '2006-11-27 22:22:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, you guys should stop using \"tabular\" to mean fixed-width, because
    some people use \"tabular\" to mean lining, and it's best to stay away from such
    people.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-27 22:35:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Chris, couldn't the app figure out what the default is (tab/prop, lining/osf)
    from the information in the lnum, pnum, onum, and tnum classes?\r\n\r\nIf \"one\"
    appears in both the tnum and lnum classes, then the default figures must be tabular
    lining."
  created: '2006-11-27 22:39:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant, \"tabular\" is the term used in the OpenType feature code definitions,
    and in the CS interfaces.\r\nIt is the standard usage, whether we like it or not. "
  created: '2006-11-27 22:46:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OT is one thing, personal communication among people who should know better
    is another. \"Latin serif\" is also a \"standard term\", for wedge serifs, but
    anybody using it (like Jim Parkinson, in the description for Azuza*) is asking
    for trouble.\r\n\r\n* http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/parkinson/azuza/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-27 22:50:06'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>Chris, couldn\u2019t the app figure out what the default is (tab/prop,
    lining/osf) from the information in the lnum, pnum, onum, and tnum classes?\r\nIf
    \u201Cone\u201D appears in both the tnum and lnum classes, then the default figures
    must be tabular lining.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's asking a lot of the app and the font,
    I think. The font would have to use particular numbers (e.g. 'one') in those features
    (which it often will, but isn't required to), and the app would have to figure
    it all out and hope the features are configured in a predictable way.\r\n\r\nConstraining
    the features to satisfy the app's UI is bad, right?"
  created: '2006-11-28 01:11:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't see the problem.\r\nIf a font has OpenType figure features, then
    the basice figures \"zero\", \"one\", etc., will be included in the appropriate
    figure classes, and the app should be able to determine the default from that.
    It's the definitions of the classes which are calling the shots, not the application.
    The categorization of figures into OpenType classes becomes the issue, not the
    application's interpretation. \r\n\r\nIn fact, why can't InDesign do this already,
    so that the default figure style is accurately signified, rather than just called
    \"default figure style\"?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "<em>In fact, why can\u2019t InDesign do this already, so that the default
      figure style is accurately signified, rather than just called \u201Cdefault
      figure style\u201D?</em>\r\n\r\nI imagine the answer has something to do with
      backwards compatibility. Anything like you suggest should probably be incorporated
      manually at design time.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
      Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type
      Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
    created: '2006-11-28 11:57:59'
  created: '2006-11-28 05:13:08'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\n> Not necessarily. This would simply activate the smcp \r\n>
    feature, and presumably the foundry would have \r\n> placed lining smallcap figures
    in the feature. \r\n\r\nBut this would be absurd: I check on the \"smallcap figures\"
    switch and all my text (including numbers) turns into smallcaps. Since this is
    how the feature typically works, its place is under \"smallcaps\" and not \"smallcap
    figures\". \r\n\r\nHowever, for the Latin or Default languagesystems, the principle
    of OpenType is that lookups associated with a certain feature are executed on
    the entire portion of text that is in the scope of the operation, period (e.g.
    on the entire selection or on all the text covered by a style that employs a feature).
    \r\n\r\nThis is why the format is simple and successful, and why there are many
    implementations of it. If you start asking for special behaviors, guessing around
    and artificial intelligence being applied, you're asking for trouble. \r\n\r\n\r\nChristopher,
    \r\n\r\n> In any case, I am still not so sure it\u2019s a good idea in \r\n> general
    to have number substitutions happening in small \r\n> caps features. (And by \u201Cnot
    so sure,\u201D I mean that \r\n> I think there are decent arguments on both sides
    of the \r\n> issue.)\r\n\r\nWhat exactly are the arguments against? \r\n\r\nGlyph
    case conversion features (\"case\", \"smcp\", \"c2sc\", \"pcap\", \"c2pc\") have
    their own specifics. The general idea is to allow conversion between different
    cases of letters and supporting glyphs. The cases envisioned by OpenType are:
    lowercase, uppercase, smallcaps, petite caps. \r\n\r\nThere are several kinds
    of glyphs that are subject to case conversion. They all exist in various scripts,
    such as Latin, Cyrillic, Greek and other writing systems that differentiate letter
    cases. \r\n\r\nThere are four classes of letters: \r\n\r\n* LC: \"text letters\",
    i.e. lowercase letters (including accented letters of various kinds), \r\n* UC:
    uppercase letters, \r\n* SC: smallcap letters, \r\n* PC: petite cap letters (rather
    uncommon, of course), \r\n\r\nThere are also -- at least potentially -- other
    kinds of supplementary characters that may have different glyph forms depending
    on which letter case they are used with:\r\n\r\n* punctuation characters (hyphens,
    parantheses, brackets, dashes, exclamation marks, question marks, apostrophes,
    quotation marks etc.), \r\n* free-standing diacritic marks (spacing and combining),
    \r\n* numerals, \r\n* currency symbols, \r\n* mathematical operators and other
    characters. \r\n\r\nEach of the supplementary characters can, potentially, have
    separate glyph forms (or at least positioning) that correspond to each of the
    aforementioned case classes (LC, UC, SC, PC). \r\n\r\nFor lowercase-to-uppercase
    conversion, the general agreement is that the conversion of *letter* case should
    be done by the application itself, based on Unicode case conversion information.
    \r\n\r\nTherefore, the \"case\" feature should only involve supplementary glyphs
    that differ in appearance depending on whether they're used in uppercase-only
    or in mixed-case (i.e. primarily lowercase) text. However, it is up to the type
    designer to include or not include specific glyphs in that conversion. In other
    words, an \"All uppercase\" or \"All capitals\" UI operation should perform the
    Unicode case conversion (on the visual level) *and* should apply the \"case\"
    feature -- this is in fact what happens in Adobe InDesign. \r\n\r\nIn most fonts,
    the default type of numbers (numerals, figures), associated with the Unicode codepoints
    for European numerals, is lining. Usually, lining numerals are suitable for setting
    UC, and to some extent, LC. Traditionally, \"oldstyle\" numerals were used for
    LC setting but these days, it is no longer so. Therefore, the \"onum\" feature
    allows the user to switch from the default (typically lining) figures to oldstyle
    numerals. \r\n\r\nHowever, in some fonts such as the Microsoft ClearType fonts
    (e.g. Constantia), the default form of the numerals is oldstyle. These numerals
    go well with the default text case (which is LC) but don't work at all with UC
    text. Of course there is an \"lnum\" feature that allows the user to switch from
    oldstyle numerals to lining numerals on a discretionary basis, but in a well-made
    font, switching the case from lowercase to uppercase should also automatically
    trigger the switch of numerals to corresponding forms (just like it would for
    parantheses, hyphens, dashes, currency symbols etc.) Therefore, a substitution
    of the default (oldstyle) numerals with uppercase (lining) numerals should happen
    not only in the \"lnum\" feature (which is for the user's *discretionary* choice)
    but also in the \"case\" feature (which governs the more general case change).
    Microsoft has not done it and when I pointed this out to John Hudson and Geraldine
    Wade, they agreed that this is something at least to be considered in a revision.
    \r\n\r\noldstyle and lining figures are both two kinds of text figures that go
    along lowercase or mixed-case text. We agree on that. To choose between these
    two kinds of figures, we have \"onum\" and \"lnum\". Fine. The lining figures
    *may happen* to be a suitable set to go along all-caps setting, but do not necessarily
    have to. In most typefaces, lining numerals are shorter than caps. In an OpenType
    font, one could imagine having a yet separate set of lining figures, taller than
    the text lining figures and truly aligned to the top of uppercase letters. This
    set would be inserted through the \"case\" feature. Even a typeface like Matthew
    Carter's Georgia that only has one set of unified hybrid (semi-oldstyle) text
    figures could use a second set of uppercase figures. These would be substituted
    using the \"case\" feature, just like other case-sensitive supplementary characters.
    \ \r\n\r\nI firmly believe that visual case conversion *must* involve numerals
    as well -- there is no reason to exclude them, just like you wouldn't exclude
    the endash, the parantheses or the dollar sign. \r\n\r\nFor the two cases: smallcaps
    and petite caps, the case conversion is only performed on the glyph level and
    there is no external reference material (such as the Unicode case conversion rules).
    Therefore, both the conversion of letters and the supplementary characters must
    happen in the font. In the \"smcp\" and \"pcap\" features, only the lowercase
    letters should be converted to the small or petite caps, respectively, while uppercase
    letters should be left untouched. Conversely, in the \"c2sc\" and \"p2sc\" features,
    only uppercase letters should be converted while the lowercase letters should
    be untouched. \r\n\r\nBut what about the supplementary characters? Of course,
    all of them (punctuation, currency symbols, *and* numerals) should be covered
    if they are designed, and that regardless of whether the feature converts lowercase
    or uppercase into the smallcaps or petite caps. This means that both \"smcp\"
    and \"c2sc\" should convert lowercase numerals into numerals suitable for smallcaps
    setting. \r\n\r\nHere, we come to the conclusion. The type designer should not
    think in terms \"Do I include hybrid or lining or oldstyle numerals in my font?\"
    This is the wrong question to ask yourself. The right question is: what kinds
    of numerals (and other supplementary characters) do I need to include in my font
    *depending on their function*? The visual appearance of the figures is a secondary
    question, and a design question only. \r\n\r\nI would classify figures into five
    *functional* categories: \r\n* LCF: Text / lowercase figures -- figures to be
    used in running text, i.e. typically appearing in all-lowercase or mixed-case
    context. \r\n* UCF: All-caps / Uppercase figures -- figures to be used in all-caps
    settings such as headlines. \r\n* SCF: (If your font contains smallcaps) smallcaps
    figures -- figures to be used in smallcaps settings. \r\n* PCF: (If your font
    contains petite caps) Petite-caps figures -- figures to be used in petite-caps
    settings. \r\n* MTF: Mathematical and tabular figures -- figures to be used in
    mathematical / scientific / financial context, without letters. \r\n\r\n*Each*
    of these groups may have one or several stylistic variants. All figures to be
    used in text can be proportional. There can be two sets of LCF (lining and oldstyle)
    or just one (hybrid). SCF and PCF can also come in two kinds, lining and oldstyle
    (lining for all-smallcaps setting while oldstyle for caps-and-smallcaps setting),
    or just in one kind (either hybrid or lining). MTF are usually monospace but can
    be just lining or also have an oldstyle set. Finally, UCF are typically lining
    and proportional. \r\n\r\nThe actual question of how many figure sets do I need
    to design for my font only comes after this analysis. Leaving PCF aside for the
    time being, let's concentrate on the four functional categories of figures: LCF,
    UCF, SCF and MTF. Let's imagine that you want to have both lining and oldstyle
    flavors of proportional LCF. And let's imagine that for SCF you want two kinds
    of figures, one that works in all-smallcap settings (lining) and the other that
    works in mixed caps-and-smallcaps settings (oldstyle). For MTF, you want a lining
    and an oldstyle set. \r\n\r\nSo you might end up having: \r\n\r\n* TWO SETS OF
    LCF: \r\n\r\nthree.lnum_tnum (monospaced lining) -- gets inserted in the features:
    \"lnum\" and \"tnum\":\r\n-- feature lnum { sub three.onum_pnum by three.lnum_pnum;
    } lnum;\r\n-- feature pnum { sub three.lnum_tnum by three.lnum_pnum; } pnum;\r\n\r\nthree.onum_pnum
    (proportional oldstyle) -- gets inserted in the features: \"onum\" and \"pnum\":\r\n--
    feature onum { sub three.lnum_pnum by three.onum_pnum; } onum;\r\n-- feature pnum
    { sub three.onum_tnum by three.onum_pnum; } pnum;\r\n\r\n* TWO SETS OF SCF: \r\n\r\nthree.lnum_smcp
    (smallcap lining) -- gets inserted in the features: \"lnum\" and \"c2sc\":\r\n--
    feature lnum { sub three.onum_smcp by three.lnum_smcp; } lnum;\r\n-- feature c2sc
    { sub [three.lnum_tnum three.lnum_pnum three.onum_tnum three.onum_pnum] by three.lnum_smcp;
    } c2sc;\r\n\r\nthree.onum_smcp (smallcap oldstyle) -- gets inserted in the features:
    \"onum\" and \"smcp\":\r\n-- feature onum { sub three.lnum_smcp by three.onum_smcp;
    } onum;\r\n-- feature smcp { sub [three.lnum_tnum three.lnum_pnum three.onum_tnum
    three.onum_pnum] by three.onum_smcp; } smcp;\r\n\r\n* ONE SET OF UCF: \r\n\r\nthree.case
    (uppercase) -- gets inserted in the feature \"case\", replacing most or all other
    figure kinds\r\n\r\n* TWO SETS OF MTF: \r\n\r\nthree.lnum_tnum (monospaced lining)
    -- gets inserted in the features: \"lnum\" and \"tnum\":\r\n-- feature lnum {
    sub three.onum_tnum by three.lnum_tnum; } lnum;\r\n-- feature tnum { sub three.lnum_pnum
    by three.lnum_tnum; } tnum;\r\n\r\nthree.onum_tnum (monospaced oldstyle) -- gets
    inserted in the features: \"onum\" and \"tnum\":\r\n-- feature onum { sub three.lnum_tnum
    by three.onum_tnum; } onum;\r\n-- feature tnum { sub three.onum_pnum by three.onum_tnum;
    } tnum;\r\n\r\nNow, it is up to you to decide if you want to rationalize some
    of the sets away. For example, you could decide not to have monospaced oldstyle
    figures (three.onum_tnum). You could decide not to have oldstyle smallcap figures
    (three.onum_smcp). This leaves you with: \r\n\r\nthree.lnum_pnum (proportional
    lining) -- gets inserted in the features: \"lnum\" and \"pnum\"\r\nthree.onum_pnum
    (proportional oldstyle) -- gets inserted in the feature \"onum\" only\r\nthree.lnum_smcp
    (smallcap lining) -- gets inserted in the features: \"c2sc\" and \"smcp\"\r\nthree.case
    (uppercase) -- gets inserted in the feature \"case\"\r\nthree.lnum_tnum (monospaced
    lining) -- gets inserted in the features: \"lnum\" and \"tnum\"\r\n\r\nFurther
    on, you could decide that you don't need an extra set of smallcap figures but
    instead, smallcap settings will always be associated with your proportional oldstyle
    LCF. This does away with three.lnum_smcp. You could also decide that your proportional
    lining LCF are good enough to serve as UCF. This leaves you with: \r\n\r\nthree.lnum_pnum
    (proportional lining) -- gets inserted in the features: \"lnum\", \"pnum\" and
    \"case\"\r\nthree.onum_pnum (proportional oldstyle) -- gets inserted in the features:
    \"onum\", \"c2sc\" and \"smcp\"\r\nthree.lnum_tnum (monospaced lining) -- gets
    inserted in the features: \"lnum\" and \"tnum\"\r\n\r\nYou might also decide that
    you only need two sets of figures: lining tabular (that serve as lining LCF, as
    UCF and as MTF) and proportional oldstyle (that serve as oldstyle LCF and as SCF).
    Hence: \r\n\r\nthree.onum_pnum (proportional oldstyle) -- gets inserted in the
    features: \"onum\", \"pnum\", \"c2sc\" and \"smcp\"\r\nthree.lnum_tnum (monospaced
    lining) -- gets inserted in the features: \"lnum\", \"tnum\" and \"case\"\r\n\r\nFinally,
    you could decide to have just one set of figures only, monospaced hybrid, and
    use them everywhere: LCF, UCF, SCF and MTF. But regardless of which degree of
    the design simplification you choose, you should always be aware of the various
    *functions* that your figures should serve. The more different kinds of figures
    you include in your font, the more their design can be custom-tailored to those
    specific functions. The less figure sets you include, the more compromise you
    need to work into your design. \r\n\r\nOf course, in the cases elaborated above,
    \"three\" is only used as an example, I'm talking about the whole zero-nine set.
    Also, one of the sets (typically lnum_tnum or onum_tnum or onum_pnum or lnum_pnum)
    would serve as the default set of glyphs for the European figures. That particular
    set would not use any glyphname suffix, i.e. it'd be just \"three\", and would
    be associated with the appropriate Unicode codepoints). \r\n\r\nThe bottomline
    is, figures should be associated with both the figure style selection features
    (lnum, onum, pnum, tnum), as well as with case conversion features (case, c2sc,
    smcp, pcap, p2sc), appropriately. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2006-11-28 15:46:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>But this would be absurd: I check on the \u201Csmallcap figures\u201D
    switch and all my text (including numbers) turns into smallcaps.</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    if you are going to use small cap figures, you probably intend to use them with
    small caps! Surely the absurdity would be to use small cap figures with upper
    or lower case.\r\n\r\nIn any event, \"special behaviour\" (selecting only the
    characters you want changed, not the entire text block) is not as you say an anomaly
    within OpenType, as many figure features require it -- fractions and superiors/inferiors
    for instance. And the Ordinals feature does in fact require \"artificial intelligence\",
    in the form of contextual rules, to make it apply correctly.\r\n\r\n<em>This means
    that both \u201Csmcp\u201D and \u201Cc2sc\u201D should convert lowercase numerals
    into numerals suitable for smallcaps setting.</em>\r\n\r\nRight. I like the way
    you have assigned \"Small cap lining figures\" to the \"c2sc\" feature, a brilliant
    solution to the problem! It depends on the application applying both c2sc and
    smcp to implement \"all small caps\", which is quite logical.\r\n\r\n<em>In an
    OpenType font, one could imagine having a yet separate set of lining figures,
    taller than the text lining figures and truly aligned to the top of uppercase
    letters.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's what I've done in Austin. Here are the figure sets,
    as per your scheme, Adam. One day I may yet finish the typeface and release it...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/figs_6304.png]"
  created: '2006-11-28 19:06:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "An ascending OS \"2\"! Awesome. Where did you get the idea?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-28 19:37:08'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Well, if you are going to use small cap figures, \r\n> you probably intend
    to use them with small caps! \r\n> Surely the absurdity would be to use small
    cap \r\n> figures with upper or lower case.\r\n\r\nWhat I meant is that the user
    would not expect that an UI operation in the figures section would do anything
    to the letters. :)\r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-11-28 20:13:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Where did you get the idea?</em>\r\n\r\nI'd seen it in Perpetua many
    years ago, and first appropriated it for Fontesque in 1993. I subsequently tried
    it on several types, but it never really worked, so I didn't implement it again
    until Austin, where it seemed OK--and necessary, given the large ball terminal
    in the Scotch Modern genre, which wouldn't fit comfortably into a two with OSF
    \"x-height\".\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FontFigs_3960.png]"
  created: '2006-11-28 20:31:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, Gill's work is the only (other) place I've seen it.* It's great to see
    a\r\ncontemporary designer do it - I myself have been a fan of the idea since\r\nthe
    late 90s (before noticing Gill's stuff actually).\r\n\r\n* And that of course
    is the answer to my quiz\r\nin this thread (see my last post of 11/17).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-28 20:44:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Thanks Hrant, props for championing the idea.
  created: '2006-11-28 21:06:55'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>What exactly are the arguments against [putting figure substitutions
    in small cap features]?</cite>\r\n\r\nHere's one: Both lining and old style figures
    have a history of being used with small caps. One can argue for one's own preferences,
    but I don't think that any particular style can be considered objectively correct.
    Since there are a number of OpenType features to handle (popular) figure styles,
    one could say that a user can use one of those features to access the figure style
    they want, rather than having the small cap feature do it for them. (Smallcap-style
    punctuation is a little different, since there is no separate layout feature for
    it -- so it seems appropriate to include these non-alphabetic glyphs along with
    the letters.)\r\n\r\nWhat vexes me about the small cap figure style is that the
    above argument doesn't apply so convincingly. Still, I am left with the overarching
    idea that figure style, whatever it might be, should be handled as a separate
    choice.\r\n\r\nFor Garamond Premier Pro, we changed our approach a little from
    preceding fonts and drifted slightly toward this idea. Only alphabetic substitutions
    are made in 'smcp', whereas 'c2sc' changes letters, punctuation, and numbers (to
    old style). The idea with this is that in mixed-case settings (e.g. 'smcp'), old
    style figures do not necessarily work better, and smallcap punctuation (e.g. questiondown.sc,
    ampersand.sc) can actually look strange. Of course there's nothing preventing
    a user from applying old style figures to a mixed-case setting if that's what
    they want.\r\n\r\nAdam, I think your treatise makes a convincing case for its
    position, and at the very least is a thorough illustration of its ideas. It doesn't
    yet convince me that there are no alternative philosophies.\r\n\r\nOne of the
    things I like about OpenType features is that they allow much latitude for a designer
    to express their ideas and preferences through the choices they make in the features
    while still remaining \"legal\" in the OpenType sense. I think this thread is
    exposing a lot of choices that many might not have been thinking about, so I am
    glad we're talking about it!"
  created: '2006-11-28 21:33:52'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Christopher, \r\n\r\nby no means I'd say my view is the only one valid --
    of course I do consider my view a very good one ;) The design of OpenType Layout
    features involves both technical and usability considerations. My personal view
    is always to optimize/maximize usability (which is a subjective criterion, of
    course) without invalidating the technical considerations. So while I'm against
    \"hacking\" features, I'm all for pushing the boundaries to the greatest extent.
    \r\n\r\nThe case conversion features are usually more accessible in application
    UIs (e.g. in InDesign \"all caps\" and \"small caps\" are right in the Character
    palette rather than in the OpenType submenu) and more comprehensible to users,
    while the figure style selection features are much more specialty-oriented. Things
    like \"all caps\" or \"small caps\" are understandable to a large number of users
    while \"oldstyle tabular\" is not necessarily so. I think upon selecting the letter
    case, the typeface should present itself in the \"most optimal\" way to the user,
    including selecting the best figure style. The user should always have the ability
    to override that preset. \r\n\r\nIf case conversion lookups (case, smcp, c2sc,
    pcap, c2pc) are placed earlier in the font than the discretionary figure style
    selection lookups (lnum, onum, pnum, tnum), the user always will have the ability
    to override the \"case-default\" figure style. But I think it's still useful to
    have different figure styles become default depending on the letter case. This
    is basically where my \"treatise\" leads. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-29 15:36:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>upon selecting the letter case, the typeface should present itself in
    the \u201Cmost optimal\u201D way</em>\r\n\r\nYes, because, the optimality of any
    figure style for a particular feature depends to an extent on the typeface. One
    key factor in this suitability is the role of \"x\"-height. Consider that the
    height of small caps varies with typeface; usually it is slightly larger than
    lower case x-height, sometimes the same size or quite a bit larger. Between the
    different x-heights of Sc and lc, the old-style figures may correspond to either,
    which certainly affects how they perform in an all-small cap setting. In some
    faces where there is a noticeable difference between Sc height and OSF x-height,
    such as Caslon (above), that creates a quaint effect which may be desirable in
    the type designer's opinion, or perhaps not, which has a bearing on what is considered
    to be the best choice for default SC figures--OSF or lining. At any rate, that
    kind of decision should, I feel, reside with the foundry.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/casjen_3929.png]"
  created: '2006-11-29 18:10:58'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "A list of typefaces with small-cap height numerals:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/70865"
  created: '2010-05-30 13:58:35'
date: '2006-11-17 18:03:58'
node_type: forum
title: lack of small-cap height lining numerals

---
