---
author:
  name: Goran Soderstrom
  picture: 111361
body: "I must be on top of the list now, regarding asking questions about FL, but
  all you guys are so great in helping me along the way so I go on ;-)\r\n\r\nThis
  time I have two questions:\r\n\r\n1. Start Points.\r\nIf you look at this image,
  this particurlary letter contains only smooth connection nodes. However, the need
  for start points automatically converts them to corner nodes instead. Is this OK?
  If not, how to achieve the letter?\r\n\r\n2. Extreme points.\r\nBy looking at this
  image where the red arrows are, do I <cite>have to</cite> put points there? What
  are the recommendations? I would prefer _not_ to put nodes there to make the curve
  smoother. An insert of an nod there will attach to the \"grid\" and mess upp the
  curve a little bit (shift it to the nearest grid that is) \u2013 and make the curve
  a little bit distorted.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/twoquestions_5327.png]\r\n\r\nThanks
  in advance."
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> do I have to put points there?\r\n\r\nIf you want to be safe (like with
    some RIPs) and/or you need to hint robustly, yes.\r\n\r\n> ... to make the curve
    smoother.\r\n\r\nIf you mean to avoid grid coarseness, this is a classic conundrum
    (resulting from an em of 1000 often being too coarse, especially for italics).
    One trick (that I learned from Gary Munch) is to slightly move the tangent point
    below to get a smooth \"total\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-19 17:04:05'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"do I have to put points there?\"\r\n\r\nIf you are planning on using this
    primarily in high resolution environments, no.\r\nIn fact, it's probably better
    if you leave it as it is."
  created: '2006-11-19 19:36:51'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Thanks for those two different answers ;-)\r\n\r\nHow about these start points?
    The funny think is that if I make the start points into smooth tangents \u2014
    they anyway get converted into corner points the next time I open the font, by
    them selves.\r\n\r\nIt seems that a start point can\u2019t be a tangent. (?)"
  created: '2006-11-19 21:23:24'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Goran, \r\n\r\n> The funny think is that if I make the start points \r\n>
    into smooth tangents \u2014 they anyway get converted \r\n> into corner points
    the next time I open the font, \r\n> by them selves.\r\n\r\nObviously, this is
    a bug. Thank you for reporting it here, I have notified our developers. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-11-19 22:52:30'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: '[edit]'
  created: '2006-11-19 23:07:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Adam,\r\nThat conversion seems to happen most often when an outline is copied
    and pasted or scaled if that is of any help.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-20 00:48:38'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Other point types also change when you add a component and then decompose
    it. I can''t think of a reason for this, and I hate it. '
  created: '2006-11-20 18:40:16'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: this type of point scheme is foreign to me (and most likely any FL users who
    didn't start with Fontographer). I don't ever get any problems like this using
    the Options>Glyph Window>Appearance>unchecked "node shape shows point and connection
    type" configuration. why would anyone prefer the old FOG point scheme? I don't
    get it.
  created: '2006-11-20 18:49:05'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: Because apparently it's beyond crucial to interpolation what the point type
    is. More so than in FOG.
  created: '2006-11-20 18:54:21'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "<cite> Other point types also change when you add a component and then decompose
    it. I can\u2019t think of a reason for this, and I hate it.</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve
    noticed that tangents sometimes convert themselves to \"corner nodes\" if they
    are not really smooth when decomposing OR if I merge countours. That is, if I
    have moved another nod or enlarged the glyph or something \u2014 and not double
    clicked on the tangent to correct the angle of the handle. For me it seems to
    follow this pattern anyway.\r\n\r\n<cite> I don\u2019t ever get any problems like
    this using the Options>Glyph Window>Appearance>unchecked \u201Cnode shape shows
    point and connection type\u201D configuration. why would anyone prefer the old
    FOG point scheme? I don\u2019t get it.</cite>\r\n\r\nAh, I turned it off now to
    see what happened, and suddenly there was only two types of nodes. A smooth (with
    or without a handle on both sides) and a straight. Didn\u2019t know of that one.
    Now I just have to figure out what is best for me to work with. Are there any
    big differences in the behaviours with these two types of point handling compared
    to the tangent, or is the circle just replacing the tangent? \r\n\r\nSomething
    new to learn, everyday \u2014 I like it!\r\n\r\n<cite>Because apparently it\u2019s
    beyond crucial to interpolation what the point type is. More so than in FOG.</cite>\r\n\r\nCan
    you explain more why this is so? Since you both are two established type designer
    with two different opinions, I would very much like to listen your thoughts on
    this."
  created: '2006-11-20 19:25:55'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Other point types also change when \r\n> you add a component and then decompose
    it.\r\n\r\nAs always, we appreciate specific sample files that illustrate this
    kind of behavior and can help us replicate it on a particular example. Please
    send them to adam at fontlab dot com, with a step-by-step description on how to
    replicate the problem. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-23 10:43:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "1. Start Points.\r\n    a. FL handles them \"specially\", i.e. You cannot
    edit them exactly the same as all other points, so you frequently have to move
    the start point just to be able to correctly move a \"curve point\" along a \"curve\",
    e.g. The Start point is needed by the format but it should be totally and completely
    transparent to the user in the editing process, (ala Fontographer), and the point
    type the designer defines should be an inviolate choice though the cycle of storage,
    but in don't work that way, and so far, making the point has not had an effect.
    \r\n    b. whatever niceties are brought by having \"curve\" \"tangent\" and \"corner\"
    points are controlled by the user interface and database of FL, (something they
    refuse to add to their TT editing it seems, so all points can only behave as \"corners\"
    \ ;-o\\\\\\\\\\  )  These \"point types\" do not exist in the PS or TT format,
    only the start point does.\r\n\r\nI think I've got that right, but maybe I'll
    be proven wrong, soon. "
  created: '2006-11-27 16:00:30'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> (something they refuse to add to their TT editing \r\n> it seems, so all
    points can only behave as \u201Ccorners\u201D \r\n> ;-o\\\\\\ )\r\n\r\nDavid,
    \r\n\r\nI'm sorry to realize that your memory seems to be rather flaky, sometimes.
    Only a few weeks ago, you and I corresponded about the TrueType points directly,
    and based on this, we had an internal discussion at Fontlab Ltd. I told you that
    you will likely see some improvements in TrueType point handling in the next release
    of FontLab Studio. This is actually the opposite of \"refusing\", at least where
    I live. \r\n\r\nI agree that the startpoint issue is a very problematic one. There
    have been some improvements along the way but still not sufficient. I have reported
    the \"losing of tangent type\" problem to our developers. Please direct other
    specific problems related to startpoints directly to me (adam at fontlab dot com),
    ideally with samples illustrating the problem. I will try to exercise some pressure
    on Yuri about this -- well-documented test cases showing what exactly is wrong
    are always helpful in such situations. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam Twardoch\r\nFontlab
    Ltd.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-27 16:58:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Dear Adam, \r\n\r\nI began my sentence on this forum with a list of FL \"bugs\",
    a year or two ago? Start point was there I believe, and I was told it was fixed
    when I purchased 5. I have not complained that it still sucks time and effort
    from my work. I'm just wondering how patient you'd be if your Mac came with a
    restart button on the bottom of the mouse or your car came with an ignition switch
    located in the Congo? \r\n\r\nAs for the TT situation: This is the first I've
    heard that you received my \"HELP QUICK!\" mail and illustration from...July 24th.
    If that is the memory problem you're referring to \"sorry, I forgot\"! There are
    BRAVE FONTS AND DESIGNERS DYING OUT THERE \u2014 Anti-aliasing is spreading under
    the black wing of totalitarian typographic ignorance, and independent designers
    should be able to fix it before the public pukes, (subconsciously of course, both
    fix and puke).\r\n\r\nJust exactly how many useless functions should we be rooting
    for before the fundamental ones are available? I don't know, I don't care and
    I've lost interest in making these points opaquely and without alienation. If
    this is not better done in the transparent light of day, so others might layer
    their opinions on to mine, yours or whoever's, sorry. How exactly is it that you
    think FL got into a situation where numerous basic functions are broken? Exactly!
    Listening in dark corners to bad ideas from typographically incomplete minds.
    \r\n\r\nTime's up, there are clients at the door, and the hinges are not installed.\r\n\r\nKindest
    regards, \r\n\r\nDavid Berlow\r\nThe Font Bureau, Inc. "
  created: '2006-11-28 14:49:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Anti-aliasing is spreading under the black\r\n> wing of totalitarian typographic
    ignorance\r\n\r\n<cite>Automatic</cite> anti-aliasing, not the good kind.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-28 15:56:54'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "David,  \r\n\r\n> a list of FL \u201Cbugs\u201D, a year or two ago? Start
    point \r\n> was there I believe, and I was told it was fixed when \r\n> I purchased
    5. \r\n\r\nI know that the startpoint behavior was improved in 5 vs. 4.6, but
    there are still some problems with it. However, the roughest problems like doubling
    outline points upon outline conversion were fixed. Our main engineer Yuri promised
    some further improvement in the next release of FontLab Studio. \r\n\r\n> I\u2019m
    just wondering how patient you\u2019d be if \r\n> your Mac came with a restart
    button on the \r\n> bottom of the mouse or your car came with \r\n> an ignition
    switch located in the Congo? \r\n\r\nWell, actually, my PowerBook came with a
    power button that, when the computer was put to sleep, does not work every 4th
    or 5th time, requiring me to take the battery out. \r\n\r\n> As for the TT situation:
    This is the first \r\n> I\u2019ve heard that you received my\u201CHELP QUICK!\u201Dmail\r\n\r\nThere
    are some situations where there is no immediate solution to a problem. However,
    I have forwarded all your TrueType-related comments to our developers and they
    promised some improvement in the next version. This is all I can say -- for sure
    I cannot agree this is \"refusal\", though it most certainly not always is immediate
    relief. \r\n\r\n> How exactly is it that you think FL got into \r\n> a situation
    where numerous basic functions \r\n> are broken? Exactly! Listening in dark corners
    \r\n> to bad ideas from typographically incomplete minds. \r\n\r\nWe listen to
    those who dare to speak. Where have you been in, say, 1998 or 2000? (Probably
    still trying to give Macromedia Fontographer a mouth-to-mouth.)\r\n\r\nThis was
    when my typographically incomplete mind was infusing my bad ideas into the FontLab
    creators' minds, and they were listening. I think I am responsible for dozens
    of potentially useless (though I do think otherwise) functions in FontLab Studio,
    so is Luc(as) de Groot, John Hudson, Gary Munch and countless other typographic
    ignorants who have kept a dialogue with \"the Russkis\" ever since the inception
    of FontLab. But it is not too late to join in :) You're most cordially invited!
    \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-28 18:58:17'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> Our main engineer Yuri promised some further improvement in the next release
    \r\n> of FontLab Studio.\r\nJust make it like any other point. And thank him for
    getting rid of the double point nonsense, that was really not helpful.\r\n\r\n>We
    listen to those who dare to speak. Where have you been in, say, 1998 or 2000?\r\nI,
    unlike others, have spoken out on This Tool, since I started using it in 04, and
    never before that. I know of no one who is adept with both tools who disagrees
    with me, I being one of the few trying to do so. If you want proof that Fog is
    a superior drawing tool, look at how far FL has come towards it since 00, when
    Yuri told me they were just going to copy it's UI. \r\n\r\n>(Probably still trying
    to give Macromedia Fontographer a mouth-to-mouth.)\r\n:), and now that you can
    be eye-to-source with Fontographer, why don't you just get them to finish copying
    it. \r\n\r\n> I think I am responsible for dozens of potentially useless functions
    in FontLab Studio, \r\nDid someone ask for start point psychosis then?\r\n\r\nAnd
    thanks for the invitation to join in, but there seems no proper triage to get
    the basic drawing functions up to speed, (and keep them there) for who, I guess
    you'd call, Typographic Completes, (including teaching). In the end, it reads
    PS and TT fonts at least, so I don't have to worry, it just makes ya wonder for
    starters, how do they get it...?"
  created: '2006-11-28 22:57:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "On a completely unrelated note, I just copied a tif file in Photoshop and
    pasted it into the mask layer of Fontlab. Brilliant. [edit: actually, I used to
    do that in Fog. I'm getting confused. The worst is when you bang out some keyboard
    shortcut from Fog that doesn't work in Flab, and banging it out again doesn't
    undo it, and you have to go figure what it was you made happen.)\r\n\r\nI have
    gotten used to the FontLab drawing tools after a couple years; the thing that
    is preferable about them, which is directly related to the question at the head
    of this thread, is that the points always snap to the one unit grid, which makes
    it possible to insert a node on the curve, and then tweak the adjacent paths as
    per Mr Munch, at a much higher magnification than Fontographer, to get the curve
    nice, and anti-aliased too. So I would score those three factors -- snap to one-unit
    grid, greater magnification, and smooth curve -- as an improvement over Fontographer.
    Although, of course, its drawing tools were simpler and more intuitive. Such is
    progress, slick and tricky."
  created: '2006-11-29 02:46:55'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"a much higher magnification than Fontographer\" Really?\r\n\r\nThe magnification
    of Fog went to the max, that being 1:1 with the UPM of the font. You can't go
    any higher than that Nick. If you think so, I've got a bridge in Brooklyn for
    ya. If you need more magnification, you can make the UPM 2048 instead of 1000,
    but otherwise fog 'n FL are the same. "
  created: '2006-11-29 13:13:18'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "I always found it hard to understand that people preferred the Fontographer
    interface to FL, already with FL 3.0.\r\n\r\nThere is only one exception: The
    node deletion in Fontographer is much better. And integer coordinates are not
    an excuse. It would be great if node deletion could be improved, you would not
    believe how useful really good node deletion is.\r\n\r\nChanging the UPM for zooming
    purposes is obviously a ridiculous suggestion. I wonder what you would say if
    this was necessary in FL?"
  created: '2006-11-29 13:54:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"There is only one exception:\"\r\nReally? Someday, I'll sit down with you
    and design type and be done with the S, while you'll still be fumbling around
    in the flea hair tolerances of FL to close the contour of the K. \r\n\r\n\"Changing
    the UPM for zooming purposes is obviously a ridiculous suggestion\" \r\n...said
    by someone who's never designed an ultra black extra compressed, I'll bet.\r\nI
    would say the same thing about FL, because it is precisely the same truth. All
    digital design programs come with a snap to grid at the base resolution of the
    data. It is only when you need to go into tiny detail that you know what effect
    that can have on your design, (assuming the product of the effort is being used
    at high resolution of course). "
  created: '2006-11-29 15:05:14'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "David, \r\n\r\nthe screen zoom needs to be higher than what Fontographer
    gives you because these days, pixels got tinier on the screen. The zoom in FontLab
    Studio is not infinite but is higher than in FOG. \r\n\r\nOne very effective way
    to show why one tool is better over another, especially regarding the user *experience*,
    is record-and-tell. \r\n\r\nOne of the following tools: \r\nhttp://www.ambrosiasw.com/utilities/snapzprox/\r\nhttp://www.miensoftware.com/screenrecord.html\r\nhttp://shinywhitebox.com/home/home.html\r\nshould
    give you a kickstart ;) \r\n\r\nReally, give it a try. It would be funny, at least
    :> \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-29 15:23:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I'll surely get back to those links as soon as I can ;)\r\n\r\nThe tool's
    zoom has nothing to do for you after the units per em are overwhelmed by screen
    resolution. This doesn't mean that you can't look at it zoomed to where 1 upm
    = 10 screen pixels, but there turns out to be little reason as this enlargement
    gives you little true perspective on even the smallest curves and then the screen
    movement of a point by a single pixel is too huge to see the effct of, I think.
    I'll leave it there but to say there'd be an interesting comparison with lens
    crafting for punch cutting. I think enlargement ends with the molecule, in the
    best possible world, and so does the tool, but if you think it ends with the Adam...;\r\n\r\nI
    wonder how many people have designed or edited a significant number fonts on upms
    of 2048, or 256, e.g.? 16? How about 8? :-)\r\n\r\nThe other point I made goes
    to the fact that I want to make screen fonts. Since the most optimization enabled
    multiple-size-from-a-single-master format for screen fonts is TT, then that is
    what I must make. I don't have 7 years and an unlimited budget to make 7 families
    by drawing Beziers at 1000 upm, using FL's conversion (2.048 x input upm?) and
    then manually or semi-automatically convert to an optimized TT contour, which
    is a specialized waste of time that all the CT Collection probably went through
    without the knowledge of those designers. So I'm just asking, can we get Back
    To A Tool that allows us to draw in either format and save the all the same point
    types or not?\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2006-11-30 16:13:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Resolution is one thing David, but I think what I appreciate most about the
    larger zoom of FontLab is the room it gives me to co-ordinate what I'm seeing
    on the screen with my hand movements on the tablet. It's working at a larger scale,
    which is more comfortable and I would hazard an explanation -- because it requires
    less concentration, and is therefore less stressful.\r\n\r\nActually, this zoom
    is very necessary, with all the tablets that are crammed onto the FL interface,
    so the other HUGE improvement in my working condition in recent years has been
    moving from a convex CRT (which distorted glyphs if you didn't view them bang
    in the middle of the screen) to a flat \"cinema\" screen with way more real estate. "
  created: '2006-11-30 16:58:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I wonder how many people have designed or edited a significant\r\n> number
    fonts on upms of 2048, or 256, e.g.? 16? How about 8?\r\n\r\nMaybe what you're
    getting at is not opposed to these, but:\r\n1) TT fonts have an ideal/official
    UPM of 2048.\r\n2) AFAIK, many (most?) CJK fonts use smaller UPMs, I think 256.\r\n3)
    Hmmm, now I'm thinking really small UPMs might be perfect for pixelfonts!  :-)\r\n\r\n>
    the most optimization enabled multiple-size-from-a-single-master\r\n> format for
    screen fonts is TT\r\n\r\nAlso only TT, but I don't think we should forget the
    option of embedded bitmaps, which can be of many sizes in a single font file.
    The big question is, do embedded bitmaps (and the tools to embed them) properly
    support Unicode, and grayscale?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-30 17:34:28'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I've made some pixelfonts where the UPM size was equal to the ppem size,
    i.e. each virtual pixel was just one font unit large. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-11-30 17:53:05'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Any news when FontLab will fix the bug with startpoints?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-27 08:03:33'
date: '2006-11-19 13:58:11'
node_type: forum
title: Two more questions about nodes.

---
