---
author:
  name: missgiggles
  picture: 111889
body: Times Roman? is it known who decided to have the serif for a neater, clear cut
  line in stone?
comments:
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "What??? Times New Roman was designed by Monotype in ca. 1930 for the Times
    of London. Times Roman is the Linotype version of this same face. Therefore, Times
    Roman cannot be the first serif typeface!\r\n\r\nThe first typeface with serifs
    on it would have been cut in Italy sometime after 1460. Remember, before Gutenberg
    invented printing in the west in ca. 1450, there were no typefaces or fonts in
    Europe! (In China and Korea, movable metal type seems to have been invented earlier;
    Gutenberg probably had no knowledge of these things, though).\r\n\r\nLettering
    and calligraphy predate typefaces by about several thousand years. But lettering
    or calligraphic styles are just that; they are styles, not typefaces.\r\n\r\nSo,
    now that we've got that straight, the first serif typefaces may have been cut
    by Conrad Sweynheim and Arnold Pannartz, two German printers who left Mainz for
    Italy, openning the first printing press there. But it is debatable whether their
    typefaces are really serifed. Nicholas Jenson's typefaces (ca. 1470 in Venice)
    are often considered the world's first serif types.\r\n\r\nBut these typefaces
    didn't really have names. Names became attached to typefaces later, when typefounders
    began marketing their fonts to other printers.\r\n\r\nThe first letters with serifs
    on them were probably carved into stone by the Romans. Again, these letters don't
    really have names either. There are sometimes refered to now as Capitalis Monumentalis,
    or just monumental Roman lettering. The stone-carved letters on the Trajan Column
    in Rome are probably the most famous examples of these.\r\n\r\nBut I have no idea
    what you are really asking! "
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: thanks Dan for that info but i'm still confused over lowercase serif fonts.
      were they invented during the Capitalis Monumentalis? i mean, was it only uppercase
      during that time? what about small caps? whst is curvise and semi cursive lettering?
      please explain. Thanks for your time, very highly appreciated :)
    created: '2006-11-25 15:39:05'
  created: '2006-11-20 12:17:53'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Although names is what last after a person or a city dies, you should know
    that the invention of the typophile scroll bar is as old as the papyrus roll ;
    this because to form the long strip that a scroll required, a number of such sheets
    of papyrus were united, placed so that all the horizontal fibres parallel with
    the roll's length were on one side only. So, for your interest, one modern book
    you can flip the pages is "The Nymph and the Grot" by James Mosley (1999).
  created: '2006-11-20 12:47:06'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Duh, Times New Roman was invented by the Romans. ;o)
  created: '2006-11-20 14:55:44'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Is that squooshed ?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.vannacalzature.it/Storia_italiano/romani.htm\r\n\r\nJust
    learnt the acronym ROLF"
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: sorry Alessandro. i cant read that language on http://www.vannacalzature.it/Storia_italiano/romani.htm
    created: '2006-11-25 14:21:14'
  created: '2006-11-20 16:15:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Rolling On <strong>L</strong>inoleum <strong>F</strong>ainting?\r\n\r\nDan,
    why do you think those diamonds in Gutenberg's font don't count as serifs?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-20 19:36:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: I think the question was asked when the first Roman typeface was made. I think
    the answer is that sometime just before it was used in 1470, Nicolas Jenson or
    someone working for him made one. Then, depending what you meant by serif, font
    and first, people can argue.
  created: '2006-11-20 20:10:34'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: That is opening up a whole new can of worms.
  created: '2006-11-20 20:18:30'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I'd disagree with you on Nicholas Jensen ... if I had all my notes with me.
    But then again, this is interesting enough to make a point of looking through
    my notes. \r\n\r\n\r\n( Edit: Make that, I'd \"kindly\" disagree with you. )\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-20 20:30:04'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "See, I told you that giggles is pulling our tits!\r\n\r\nMuzz"
  created: '2006-11-20 20:43:57'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Do you disagree with me because you don't think that Jensen's letters had
    serifs,* or because he wasn't the first? If he wasn't the first, were Sweynheim
    & Pannartz first, or did someone else do them first in the intervening seven years
    or so?\r\n\r\n* Do your reasons for Jensen's serifs not being serifs match any
    of the Jensen diamond ideas in The Stroke?\r\n\r\nP.S.: Hrant, if the Jensen cut-off
    diamonds aren't serifs, then the Textura diamonds, a la Gutenberg's letters, certainly
    aren't :-)"
  created: '2006-11-20 20:54:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"See, I told you that giggles is pulling our tits!\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!! That
    must have a whole different meaning down under Muzz :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-20 20:54:40'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "> <em>See, I told you that giggles is pulling our tits!</em>\r\n\r\nHere,
    here. I agree!"
  created: '2006-11-20 20:55:31'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I was kindly disagreeing the David, not you Dan. '
  created: '2006-11-20 20:57:23'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Oh.
  created: '2006-11-20 21:01:50'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: '*Laughing  my head off and rolling on floor laughing so hard* i am not ''pulling
    tits'' here and definately not pulling my own :D just shows how much i''ve learnt
    in my typography lessons at university and how hard the tutors work to get that
    knowledge to us :D i''m in my 2nd yr but not of a typographic course but graphics
    and please dont say ''how the hell did you pass your 1st yr?'' i did even though
    i dont know what the 1st ever serif font to be designed is called let alone who
    even attempted the neat cuts, making them into serifs. sorry guys and thats why
    i''m on here to learn more than what my tutor gives. I AM interested in type and
    want to be as good as you all one day so can''t i have a 2nd chance on here. please
    dont throw me out :D and NO, i''m not pulling my tits on this one ;)'
  created: '2006-11-20 21:13:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "missgiggles,\r\n\r\nRead the book \"Origin of the Serif\" for a very good
    an readable explanation of the serif.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Origin-Serif-Edward-M-Catich/dp/0962974005/sr=1-1/qid=1164060998/ref=sr_1_1/102-2875130-0673765?ie=UTF8&s=books\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-20 22:15:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You probably passed your first year because you're not afraid to\r\nask questions.
    For a teacher, that is an increasingly rare delight.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-20 22:27:23'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: I find the idea that Times Roman predated the printing press an amusing balance
    to the idea that Times Roman didn't exist before Microsoft Word (as Republican
    bloggers claimed in 2004).
  created: '2006-11-21 03:45:39'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "How about the Korean type used here \r\n\r\nhttp://www.jikjiworld.net/content/english/jikji/index.jsp?top=01&sub=2&left=01&url=mn010/mn010_030.jsp
    \r\n\r\nit's a bit serify from 1337 \r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jikji"
  created: '2006-11-21 05:21:10'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.wsu.edu/~dee/GLOSSARY/CUNEI.HTM\">Cuneiform</a> although
    cut in clay originally not stone.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-11-21 12:00:40'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Eve.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-11-21 16:02:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Some might say Adam had the serif:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-21 16:08:18'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: When the Word was made flesh, was it originally serif or sans serif?
  created: '2006-11-21 16:38:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Aye, there is the rib :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-21 16:45:22'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I thought Adam was a ligature - at least when he was in action\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-11-23 01:39:29'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Though many historians attribute the development of serifs to the ancient
    Romans, it was in fact of Egyptian origin, particularly \"slabs\".\r\n\r\nThe
    association of the term \"feet\" as being synomonous with the typographic term
    \"serif\" was due to the fact that these terminals were originally depicted in
    hieroglyph (see below):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hieroglyph2_5694.jpg]\r\n\r\nFrequently
    these \"feet\" were situated on a rendered baseline (especially on bird feet):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hieroglyph_birdfeet_5494.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    illustration below shows the direct correlation between bird feet and serifs used
    for the lowercase \"i\" --\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/turkey_diag_4257.jpg]\r\n\r\nIn
    addition to the development of formalized serifs, early hieroglyphs of birds suggest
    that the Egyptians invented the flared terminal and semi-sans as clearly shown
    below:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/turkey_sans_6337.jpg]\r\n\r\nWhich
    is a long about way of wishing you all a Happy Thanksgiving!\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: 'OMG! wow, that is amazing Norbert Florendo! i shall keep that  in mind
      :D '
    created: '2006-11-25 15:41:08'
  - author:
      name: Norbert Florendo
      picture: 110725
    body: "---------------------------------------------------------\r\nWARNING!!!!
      THE \"EGYPTIAN TURKEY SERIFS\"\r\nREFERENCES ABOVE WAS ONLY A \"JOKE\"!\r\n---------------------------------------------------------\r\n\r\nMy
      examples of hieroglyphic \"feet\" being the origins of serifs had been taken
      seriously by some readers, and for that I apologize.\r\nSince I am a strong
      supporter of typographic education, I will be more cautious when presenting
      information \"tongue-in-cheek\".\r\n\r\n-- Norbert Florendo"
    created: '2006-11-28 18:51:37'
  created: '2006-11-23 04:34:58'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<strong>speechless...</strong>\r\n\r\n\r\nGod. It's 11 PM. I was trying to
    relax and wind down. Then I see this. Thanks. Now I'll never get to sleep.\r\n\r\n<cite>So
    here's a question:</cite>\r\nEven though there were no \"typefaces\" proper, by
    the 15th century the alphabets were pretty much standardized, weren't they? I
    mean, the early puch cutters weren't really \"designing\" new types, they were
    copying standard types in use by the scribes of that era.\r\n\r\nIt's a technology
    thing. Would we say that typefaces were never designed before Postscript just
    because no one had done so yet?"
  created: '2006-11-23 07:19:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I mean, the early puch cutters weren\u2019t really \u201Cdesigning\u201D
    new types, they were copying standard types in use by the scribes of that era.\r\n\r\nJenson
    and Griffo based their types on existing letter forms from scribes. However, they
    figured out how to give the letters and words more even color than hand-written
    letters, and so made type more readable than hand writing. This sculpting of letters
    for even color was a huge advance--which we still arguably haven't improved upon
    significantly. Also each scribe to some extent would have their own hand--and
    type designer his own style. "
  created: '2006-11-23 14:00:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> we still arguably haven\u2019t improved upon significantly.\r\n\r\nExactly
    because we're stuck on the succubus that\r\nis even color, and have yet to truly
    leverage notan.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-24 18:57:52'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">but i\u2019m still confused over lowercase serif fonts. \r\n>were they invented
    during the Capitalis Monumentalis?\r\n\r\nYou still do not seem to understand!
    Before Gutenberg (or whoever else might have been first, perhaps someone in China
    or Korea) cast his first fonts, there weren't any typefaces and there weren't
    any fonts. Their were many different ways to write or carve the alphabet, but
    none of these were types or fonts. Fonts are means of mechanically reproducing
    a specific design over and over again.\r\n\r\nLowercase letters were codified
    centuries after the Romans settled on the forms of what we now call uppercase
    letters. An argument could be made that lowercase letters first appeared before
    300 AD, but a good simple answer is that they didn't arise until the early middle
    ages.\r\n\r\n>i mean, was it only uppercase during that time? \r\n\r\nYep. Well,
    only sort of. You see, since there was no \"lower\"case, there could not be any
    \"upper\"case, now could there? There was only one case. It looked a lot like
    what we call uppercase today. But even when the first \"lowercase\" letters were
    written, they weren't quite seen as an addition to uppercase letters, but rather
    as a totally separate style, entity, or evolution. Some scribe wrote all in \"uppercase\",
    some all in \"lowercase\"\u2014but they saw the two as different independent styles.
    The mixing of upper and lowercase letters together would only came later, probably
    in the high middle ages.\r\n\r\n>what about small caps? \r\n\r\nSmall Caps are
    really a typographic invention in my opinion. That is, they weren't invented until
    \"typography\" was already around, that is, after the invention of typefaces in
    1450 and thereafter. If I recall correctly, Aldus Manutius (Venice, ca. 1500)
    made use of small caps in his books. But I can't verify that, nor do I know if
    other printers before him used them or not. So, no exact date here from me!\r\n\r\n>whst
    is curvise and semi cursive lettering? please explain. \r\n>Thanks for your time,
    very highly appreciated :)\r\n\r\nThis is a bit too many questions ;-)\r\nPerhaps
    someone else will step in and answer this one for. But if I were you (and I was
    in your situation once, not all that many years ago\u2026) I would go to your
    University library and read some old books about the development of the alphabet,
    of writing, and of printing. Then you'll know the answers to these questions inside
    and out."
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: thankyou so much Dan. i have been reading too many books and so much information
      to take in and havent been able to digest anything because theres just too much
      to understand and i keep getting muddled up and cant remember things and order
      of it all but anyway thankyou for sharing your knowledge. i'm very greatful.
    created: '2006-11-25 16:14:09'
  created: '2006-11-25 16:00:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Great stuff Norbert!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-25 16:37:41'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Maybe it would help to define "font" or "fount" and exactly where the terms
    Upper and Lower <cite>case</cite> came from.
  created: '2006-11-25 21:05:41'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "David Bolten of <a herf=\"http://www.alembicpress.co.uk/\" target=\"new\">Alembic
    Press</a> presents wonderfully in depth references to type job cases:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/california_typecase_6492.jpg]\r\n<strong>Case
    (Typecase)</strong>\r\na wooden drawer partitioned into many small boxes, used
    to store the separate type characters. The cases are held in a frame or rack,
    often with a bracket on the top to allow two cases (eg an <strong>upper</strong>
    and <strong>lower</strong>) to be held open one above the other, and in front
    of which the compositor stands whilst setting the job. Some cases have no internal
    partitions, and are used to store wood letter (or blocks, dingbats, etc.). Over
    200 different styles of case are shown here, but there are many others. \r\n\r\n<strong><a
    href=\"http://members.aol.com/alembicprs/uppcase.htm\" target=\"new\">English
    Upper Case</a></strong>\r\n\r\n<strong><a href=\"http://members.aol.com/alembicprs/selindx.htm\"
    target=\"new\">Typecase Index</a></strong>"
  created: '2006-11-26 17:11:44'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>OMG! wow, that is amazing Norbert Florendo! i shall keep that in mind</em>
    :D\r\n\r\nBTW -- Miss Giggles, I'm glad you enjoyed the humor, but I hope you
    understand I was just pulling the turkey's leg, lest you quote me as a reference.
    ;-)"
  created: '2006-11-26 17:36:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Nice links on the cases, Norbert! Your graphic is of the California Job Case.
    This combined upper and lowers cases into one. '
  created: '2006-11-26 19:04:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> combined\r\n\r\nCombine<strong>s</strong>.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-26 19:26:28'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Thanks, William,\r\n\r\nI couldn't find a graphic of the <a href=\"http://members.aol.com/alembicprs/uppcase.htm\"
    target=\"new\">English Upper Case</a> since the linked illustration is actually
    constructed from html special characters placed over an \"empty case\" illustration.
    I hope Miss Giggles follows the link for a more detailed explanation and illustration."
  created: '2006-11-26 19:28:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Happy Gobble Day Norbert!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-27 13:50:24'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "&2u2, Chris.\r\nI'm surprized you haven't made a reference to \"Happy Feet\"
    in response to my bird illustrations :-)"
  created: '2006-11-27 20:45:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am not familiar with it so I just Googled it. A new movie eh, now I get
    it. I wasn't birdbrained enough topeck through the logic until now :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-28 02:28:45'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: OMG! i am soooo MAD at you Mr Norbert! students like me are really going to
    take your word. I think you need a spanking for being a naughty boy. bring back
    the cane lol :D only messing, WARNING! DON'T TAKE THIS SERIOUS! hahaha. but please
    dont do it again NF. it really confused me :D
  created: '2006-11-29 00:00:36'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "IIIIIII got it. IIIIIII'm a student. \r\n\r\nSo there."
  created: '2006-11-29 01:03:41'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: Not to revive this dead thread, but you might want to look up Adolf Rusch,
    Miss Giggles. From what I've seen, his roman predates even Sweynheym and Pannartz's.
    Odd, since he printed in Germany.
  created: '2006-12-18 19:02:25'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Norbert, just found this thread and your comment about feet and serifs is
    the best! A hearty and belated thanks for the laugh!
  created: '2006-12-19 14:24:26'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Not to exclude fraktur I hope (last time I looked they had \"serifs\"),I
    believe the first acknowledged typeface name (posthumous) is the DK-Type used
    prior to B42 (42-line Bible, aka the Gutenberg Bible) but also in the later B36
    (36-line Bible). \r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-12-23 07:02:09'
- author:
    name: bokkah
    picture: 111697
  body: "let's be pragmatic about this and simple,\r\nmost will agree that the 1st
    serif would be after Guttenburg invented movable type. Before, it wouldn't be
    a rational way to create type. It was all done by hand up til then, starting with
    picographs on caves over 30,000 years ago, then the persian cuneforms, after the
    egyptians hieroglyphics at around 2500 BC. The 1st alphabet was created by the
    phonecians at around 1300Bc and then everyone jumped in.\r\n\r\nPreceding the
    use of the 1st serif you'd see a various amount of written blackletter on manuscripts
    using the roman alphabet. in 1456 when guttenburg created a machine to print with
    movable type, he was printing blackletter at first until nicholas jenson designed
    the 1st serif. There is no offical name but a few popular recreations or fonts
    based on the 1st serif from original pages printed at the time are available from
    today's foundries. Ex: Adobe Jenson by robert Slimback or Centaur by Bruce Rogers
    and an original italic by Frederick warde.  \r\n\r\nObviously, there are possibiliies
    that someone else made a serif before Jenson or was the original designer and
    Jenson got credit, but   what does that have to do with dating or naming the 1st
    serif that we  know about so far. Nothing."
  created: '2006-12-26 18:43:40'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: I thought it was Gutenberg (not Guttenburg). Shall we stick to Gutenberg?
  created: '2006-12-26 19:56:57'
- author:
    name: bokkah
    picture: 111697
  body: "Hehe typos on typophile are a plenty :)\r\nI also caught picograph=pictograph
    on my previous spread.\r\n\r\nI'd like to add that the 1st serif lower/uppercase
    by nicholas jenson was a mix of written humanistic style and also there is influence
    of the  roman cap from the romans. trajan is based on Roman lettering and you
    can see serifs. So, is the 1st serif from Roman cap lettering that does not have
    any lower case or is it nicholas jenson's lower case serif post Gutenburg? "
  created: '2006-12-26 22:42:10'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I don't know Mac_D. I haven't been following this thread but I think there
    were some earlier serif faces in France, I think I read it somewhere... but now
    I'm in my parent's house and left all of my books home.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-12-27 05:05:15'
- author:
    name: bokkah
    picture: 111697
  body: "I'm much more curious about the fact that Nicholas Jenson's serif type is
    derived partly from roman capital lettering pre-dating the 15th century. Does
    this mean the romans invented the 1st serif type? There is in fact serifs on lettering
    found on roman architecture.\r\n\r\nas to your comment about earlier serif faces
    found in France rather than Italy, could be true but I'm sure it's very close
    in date and the romans are much more earlier than either your mysterious french
    type or Nicholas well-know serif. so the question is really about the romans and
    the fact that the 1st serif type used is actually from the roman empire or even
    greek empire. It might only be uppercase and only have certain characters from
    that era, but the serifs are there."
  created: '2006-12-27 15:09:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"mysterious French type\" indeed, \r\nIt may be so mysterious no people
    have ever seen it. Maybe they mean that Jenson was originally French.\r\n\"1st
    serif type used is actually from the roman empire or even greek empire\"\r\nThe
    original question was \"first serif font\", the font of which implied metal type
    and the rest of the letterpress process, which brought out the original Jenson
    answer, though Tiffany and others seem to have notes, and books that state otherwise.
    And, while Greeks and Romans might have had templates for the drawing their serif
    bearing type, they didn't make fonts. \r\n\r\nSo, maybe the Jenson answer is to
    the question \"Who cut the first serif font that was useful and well marketed
    enough that it was used and/or copied quickly all over Europe and in the new world
    for hundreds of years.\" On the other hand, I'd be fascinated to find anything
    different, or specific documentation that Jenson was influenced by another type
    or type maker."
  created: '2006-12-27 15:57:15'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Much of what I've been able to find related to incunabula tends to support
    Nicholas Jenson's cutting and printing of the first known \"Roman typeface\" ca.
    1470.\r\n\r\nBUT -- <strong><a href=\"http://www.ndl.go.jp/incunabula/e/glossary/glo_30.html\"
    target=\"new\">this reference</a></strong> from the \"Dawn of Western Printing\"
    Incunabula site is very specific on the \"first Roman type\" used in 1465!\r\n\r\n<em>Roman
    script is one of the two major scripts in the Roman alphabet. Roman script started
    and spread from Italian humanists' attempt to revive the style of handwriting
    used in ancient Roman inscriptions and to imitate the Carolingian style of handwriting
    used at the end of the 8th century. C. Sweynheym and A. Pannartz first used Roman
    type in 1465, and its use later spread to Germany. These Roman typefaces, however,
    retained a slightly Gothic flavor compared with today's Roman type. The present-day
    Roman type is based on the one first used by N. Jenson in 1470, which is said
    to be the most beautiful of all Roman typefaces.</em>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/first_roman_type1_4577.gif]\r\n\r\nBTW
    -- these are great sites for research on types used in early printing:\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.ndl.go.jp/incunabula/e/chapter2/index.html\" target=\"new\">Dawn
    of Western Printing -- Various Typefaces</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://sunsite.berkeley.edu/incunabula/incu_srch.html\"
    target=\"new\">Incunabula Database -- Berkeley</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bl.uk/collections/hoinc.html\"
    target=\"new\">Incunabula Collections -- The British Library</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.italnet.nd.edu/Dante/text/1472.foligno.html\"
    target=\"new\">Dante Incunabula -- 1472, Foligno: JOHANN NEUMEISTER</a>\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-27 16:28:26'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: This page from <a href="http://www.ndl.go.jp/incunabula/e/font/index_01.html"
    target='new">Collection of Images of GfT Founts</a> displays incunabula "founts"
    used by authors, by styles, by country.
  created: '2006-12-27 16:59:40'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Norbert, excellent link.\r\n\r\nWithout having the proper amount of time
    to formulate a well though out response, I'd like to add the question:\r\n\r\n<ol>If
    the first so-called \"serif\" typefaces were simply mimicking what the humanists
    had found in early manuscripts were they really serifs?</ol>\r\n\r\nA lot of this
    depends upon your definitions. "
  created: '2006-12-27 17:44:53'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Ok, I found it. Frutiger shows a couple of roman type samples dated september
    1470, printed in \"La Sorbonne\", France. Jenson's contemporary but no earlier.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PC270026
    CH_4628.jpg]\r\n\r\nFRUTIGUER, Adrian. \r\nEn torno a la tipograf\xEDa.\r\nGustavo
    Gili.\r\nBarcelona, 2002.\r\n\r\n\r\nAnyway Norbert has the oldest serif roman
    sample now.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-12-27 21:42:31'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: But that isn't what I would call a serif font as it is mimicking the lettering
    style of the incunabula which are in turn mimicking the hand-lettered books found
    previously.
  created: '2006-12-27 22:30:41'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Well it's printed with the characters of a metal font and it has serifs,
    I don't think it's relevant if the intention of the punchcutter was to mimick
    actual handwriting (according to Bringhurst type is idealized writing). Are Griffo
    italics or Gutemberg's textura not considered acual italic or textura fonts because
    they mimicked handwriting?\r\n\r\nMaybe the serifs on these samples are not structured
    and systematic as today ones but they exist, what other name could we give to
    the horizontal apendices on the stroke endings of letters?\r\n\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-12-27 22:53:25'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Good points. I did say definition is key. I wouldn't define this as roman,
    because there are still traces of half-uncial in many of the characters.
  created: '2006-12-27 23:06:43'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "If the question is regarding the first Roman type produced. I believe it
    to be the type of Nicolas Jensen about 1470. At least that is what we were told
    in our printing lesson books back in the 50's. (That's 1950's!) As most know,
    true Roman capitals had been in existance for centuries as inscriptional work
    in stone.\r\n\r\nJenson's use of a lowercase that matched in style the caps was
    the first. A hint of things to come, was as has been posted here, the first shift
    towards a complete roman typeface. In my old lesson books these type of Sweynheim
    and Pannartz were classifies as a semi or half roman becuase of the flaring of
    the stems which gave a hint of a serif.\r\n\r\nIn this post I am not taking into
    consideration the terminations of textura letters, although I can certainly see
    why some consider these to be serifs. I am thinking the question was in regards
    to Romans as we know them. \r\n\r\nAbout twenty-five years ago I cut a metal version
    of the S&P semi-roman from drawings that I did, not referring directly to the
    original type. I had taken a damned good look at the type before I attempted my
    own drawings just to get it into my brain. The result is an 18 point type which
    I hand-cut and electroplated into matrix form and cast here at my foundry. I've
    used it no more than three or four times in the intervening years; mostly because
    I have found little use for a type of this archaic nature. I got a chance just
    in the last few months to print with it in completing my book: \"Leaves From The
    Pie Tree\".\r\n\r\nBacks to Jenson's type: a great many feel that it has never
    been bested by any other roman, and all of the major typesetting machine companies
    and type foundries took a whack at making their versions of it.\r\n\r\nI've enjoyed
    reading this thread.\r\n\r\nJim[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-12-27 23:10:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...back in the 50\u2019s. (That\u2019s 1950\u2019s!)\"\r\n\r\nSome of us
    well remember the 1950s too :-)\r\n\r\nThanks for that wonderful anecdote Jim,
    and for your work over the years. Could we twist your arm enough for you to post
    a scan of a sample of your S&P semi roman?\r\nAlso, is your book \u201CLeaves
    From The Pie Tree\u201D on the market yet? If so, where might an old geezer purchase
    it?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-28 01:10:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "In the book 'Letterletter,' by G. Noordzij, Chapter 11 is entitled \"The
    Truth about the Serif.\" \r\n\r\nIt traces the development of the roman-style
    serif by scribes--before the invention of printing--but also says that the style
    we as we know it is a product of punch cutting. I don't know how accurate his
    account is, but it certainly worth reading if you want to understand the evolution
    of the serif. "
  created: '2006-12-28 01:58:18'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "Hi Chris\r\n\r\nI'd be happy to make a scan, but believe it or not I don't
    have a scanner. Maybe I can get a friend to scan it for me. Meantime, P22 has
    a very small scanned image of one of the pages from \"Leaves\" in the RTF section
    of their site, which doesn't show much other than a fuzzy representation of the
    Quill type which I designed and cut for the printing of the book.\r\n\r\nI have
    about a dozen copies of Leaves still unsold.\r\n\r\nJim\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-12-28 02:06:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Jim,\r\nCare to sell me a copy?\r\nContact me at: chrisL at dezcom dot com\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS:
    I would be happy to scan a sample for you."
  created: '2006-12-28 03:33:34'
- author:
    name: bokkah
    picture: 111697
  body: "Yes, the roman caps had serifs, so did the Unical letters used by the european
    scripes starting from the 4th century to the 9th century. the earlier ones are
    sometimes serifed. But do we take these into account? If so then we will never
    find the 1st serif font. \r\n\r\nIf the original poster is looking for the 1st
    serif font that has had the most dramatic impact after Gutenburg then it goes
    to Nicholas Jenson. Now as to which font available digitally today is the best-know
    recreation on offset press... that's another issue."
  created: '2006-12-28 20:11:34'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I would argue that what the scribes had were not serifs so much as the pen/brush
    leaving the page.\r\n\r\nI'm not arguing or disagreeing that Nicolas Jenson didn't
    have the first typeface (not font, as technically that refers to software and
    we know that isn't so)."
  created: '2006-12-28 21:20:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">font, as technically that refers to software\r\n\r\nUm, IIRC...\r\n\r\nFont
    or Fount is related to the word 'foundry', which comes from the latin for 'pouring'.
    A foundry melts metal and pours it into moulds.  One complete pouring of a bowl
    of melted lead at a printer's foundry shop filled one size of one design of an
    alphabet with repeated characters in proportion to usage--hence one fount or font
    (pouring) of type. \r\n\r\nAll other meanings of 'a font of type' are an extension
    of this original one. So yes, Jenson made punches, matrices, and poured fonts
    of type.  "
  created: '2006-12-28 21:53:02'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Gah. OK OK. I'm in over my head. Or rather this cold is rendering me stupid.
    The word font is used in EULAs to refer to the software. My bad. Mea culpa. So
    we <strong>should</strong> be using the word font/fount in this thread. I'll go
    away now.
  created: '2006-12-28 21:58:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hope you feel better soon Tiffany!\r\n\r\nps. While you're recovering, you
    might read the great story, 'The Know It All', by Somerset Maughm. It's about
    a very annoying guy. I kept thinking of it while typing my post, feeling guilty
    :) "
  created: '2006-12-28 22:04:59'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: "\"The first typeface to be fully Roman is, I think, the one that the R-Printer
    [Adolf Rusch] was using at Strasburg by 1467 (Fig. 35). It has classical capitals
    of rather a rough kind and the characters of the lower case have been given serifs
    to match them and are widened and rounded so that their curves are consistent
    with those of the capitals. \r\n\r\n[...]\r\n\r\nThere were typefaces reproducing
    the Italian humanists' calligraphy before 1467. At  Subiaco, Sweynheym and Pannartz
    began using the first of them in 1464 or 1465.\"\r\n\r\nFrom Harry Carter's A
    View of Early Typography, p.47.\r\n\r\nWhen I can get some time, if anyone is
    at all interested, I can look at the dates on the Rusch and Mentelin books at
    the Newberry here in Chicago. They have several. My memory tells me that one of
    them is dated 1464 and uses the typeface that Carter mentions above. But both
    librarians and my memory can be wrong."
  created: '2007-01-04 19:59:57'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Scans please!\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2007-01-04 21:36:50'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: "If I'm not mistaken, and the books at the Newberry are actually from 1464,
    I'll probably pay for their reproductive services to take some photos. If IP allows,
    I'll post a link to them here.\r\n\r\nThe date I have in mind may not come from
    documents at the Newberry, but from D B Updike. Page 65, volume I, of <em>Printing
    Types</em> says: \"But the font of the \"R Bizarre\", as it is often called, was
    the first roman letter used by Adolf Rusch of Ingweiden (\"the R Printer\"), who
    printed it in an edition of the <em>Rationale</em> of Durandus, at Strassburg,
    as early as 1464.\"\r\n\r\nThe image below is a detail of Figure 22 from <em>Printing
    Types</em>. The caption is: \"First Roman Type used in Germany: Rusch, Strassburg,
    c. 1464\". Sweynheym and Pannartz's first type follows as Fig. 24 and is dated
    1465. This is, of course, not to suggest that Updike is flawless in his research.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Rusch_1464_Roman_3525.gif]"
  created: '2007-01-05 17:39:27'
date: '2006-11-20 11:52:07'
node_type: forum
title: what is the name of the 1st ever serif font?

---
