---
author:
  name: dezcom
  picture: 109959
body: "If as a user, you could have whatever [[stylistic set|stylistic sets]] to choose
  from in an [[opentype]] font, what would they be? [[Oldstyle figures]], [[ligature|ligatures]],
  all caps and [[small capitals|small caps]] are already available so what else would
  you dream of having?\r\nI am hoping to gather information to first send as a request
  for inclusion in the spec (if I understand Thomas correctly) or at least give type
  designers an idea what the market wants in the way of features.\r\n\r\nI am posting
  this as a direct result of some of the dialogue in a thread on \"Smallcap lining
  figures\".\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/29580\r\n\r\nChrisL"
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Any takers?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-20 22:08:37'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: '<em>Mathematics and Punctuation sets</em> I''m not entirely sure that this
    is an Opentype issue, but it''s something that I think matters. In big fonts its
    important that I can access punctuation and mathematical characters from the glyphs
    menu of whatever software I''m using. Right now its faster to get out a book of
    keyboard commands and find the right chord to get to this stuff than it is to
    find it in the glyphs menu of a massive font. '
  created: '2006-11-20 22:19:35'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "I'm wrestling with this myself as I fumble to build my first OpenType font:
    I have a variety of replacement glyphs (liga, dlig, calt, salt, etc.) and, as
    you say, there are already \"switches\" for liga, dlig, calt, but when it comes
    to salt glyphs things get more complicated.\r\n\r\nFor instance, I have K & R
    with long tails, an extra tall T, an o_f, an I_O_U & O_U, a C_E, etc. Yet each
    of these would be complete overkill if they were \"turned on,\" thus setting any/each/all
    of them into a sset doesn't make a lot of sense. I'm not quite up on the coding
    to randomly insert these things, but if such randomization is possible (say, every
    3rd IOU would get I_O_U), that's what I'd like to build into a sset.\r\n\r\nNot
    sure at all if this counts as a response to your query, but these are the things
    I'm considering as I continue to fumble along."
  created: '2006-11-20 22:22:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Which kind of math glyphs do you mean? Complex stuff for calculus or simple
    stuff like fractions and inferior/superior figures?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-20 22:24:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Jason,\r\nThat is not quite what I was after but it would be nice to know.
    My guess is that you could do what you want with contextual alternates and make
    a set called \"K and R tails\".\r\n\r\n I am looking from a users perspective
    more than from a type designers point of view. Do you put anything into the stylistic
    sets now or just make the features and not put them in sets?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-20 22:30:35'
- author:
    name: ultrasparky
    picture: 109750
  body: Jpad, are you thinking of alternate glyphs for certain math characters that
    could be specified under certain conditions? For instance, applying a stylistic
    set for math could give you slightly oversized parentheses and brackets instead
    of the standard ones, or letters that default to italic while the numerals remain
    roman. Or are you just wishing for an easier way to get to the math characters
    included in a font?
  created: '2006-11-20 22:38:35'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>I am looking from a users perspective more than from a type designers
    point of view. Do you put anything into the stylistic sets now or just make the
    features and not put them in sets?</em>\r\n\r\nI am not understanding, don't the
    type designers place things in the sets when building the OT tables, not the end
    users?\r\n\r\nAnyway, I can't wait to get the place to add \"Noisy\", \"Longtail\",
    \"Crooked Caps\", \"Faux Cyrillic\" and more to some particular fonts, and have
    the OT menus reflect that. The default language fields should be related to the
    -dflt- tag, maybe?\r\n\r\nThomas, is there a way I can already build compliance
    to this proposed feature, documented on the web? So that if/when there is support,everything
    will be ready? And could you get Chris more info on how to forward this cause?
    \r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">.~</a>"
  created: '2006-11-20 23:05:43'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "I suppose I posted my current dilemma in order to supply an example of what
    I'm working with on the development side; that is, I'm curious how users might
    prefer I arrange alternates such as those I mentioned. I'm certainly no type designer
    (this is my first attempt at building rather than using), so, hopefully without
    hijacking your thread, my intention was to provide others with a point of reference
    to discuss these sorts of replacements, & thereby address your query (while also
    getting some input on my own situation).\r\n\r\nps. Already part-jacked so I may
    as well ask: can anyone point me in the direction of how to code randomized replacements?"
  created: '2006-11-21 03:17:41'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "If I understand correctly, you would detail a glyph substitution set for
    each character you wanted to randomize, using the &lt;rand&gt; feature. If you
    are using VOLT, and you have the alternates in the same sequence as the primaries,
    you can do this more easily with glyph groups. However, last I heard, there are
    no OpenType applications that support this yet. That was from some website, some
    time ago, so it may not be the case now. If it is still the case, perhaps you
    might use any other OpenType feature that defaults to 'on', and just make explicit
    substitutions that compliment your general design. Like, make  K+N always use
    K#3 and N#1, and K+n always use K#2 and n#2?\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-11-21 04:57:40'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "I don't think the rand feature actually works. From what I know, most fonts
    made with \"randomization\" actually use the trick discussed in this <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/19625\">typophile
    thread</a>, which, as I understand, was first posted by Thomas Phinney. See also
    <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/17177\">here</a>.\r\n\r\nI've always thought
    of stylistic sets as a way to select variant glyphs, such as alternative designs
    for the @-sign. One other thing I can imagine using it for is to select between
    a dotted zero and one without dot. The numbers in Inconsolata are quite narrow
    to distinguish 0 from O, but perhaps if I had a stylistic set for dotted zero,
    I could widen them up with no risk of confusion.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-21 06:12:02'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Raph, \r\n\r\nit's a good idea to include the dotted zero in a stylistic
    set but if your font does include such a zero, please *also* specify a \"zero\"
    feature, which is the semantically correct place to do such a substitution. Of
    course, by all means, this substitution can be in both \"zero\" and \"ssXX\" (e.g.
    ss01). \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-11-21 06:43:36'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "As I understand it, it's not really appropriate to put a single alternate
    in 'ss**'. A stylistic set should be a set of stylistically-related alternates
    to be activated all at once (as the name implies).\r\n\r\nThe problem, I think,
    is that if one wants to apply a single alternate to appear throughout all their
    text, one cannot just select everything and apply 'salt' (without getting alternates
    of a bunch of other letters at the same time). There've been some abstract hallway
    discussions about how applications should offer a user a way to make such a setting
    \u2013 saying essentially, \"Apply 'salt' to just the letter 'a' everywhere.\"
    This is part of the difficult problem of deciding what is rightly handled inside
    the font, and what's rightly handled by the application UI. (And then maybe we
    have to wait around for an app which does it!)"
  created: '2006-11-21 08:56:30'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I assumed the most leeway was given for stylistic sets, as that was where
    you could do \"whatever\". My preference is to only include a slash zero in the
    -zero- feature, saving the SS's for things not codified elsewhere.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-11-21 12:16:22'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "I\u2019m currently designing a font where the Stylistic Set 01 has capitals
    with a discrete little \u201Cswash\u201D on the upper left side (Like in the letters
    B D E F R P etc). This makes the whole font look a little bit different, it\u2019s
    like another cut of the typeface, so therefor it feels just like a Stylistic set.\r\n\r\nOn
    stylistic set 02 I have put Unicase letters.\r\n\r\nOn another font I decided
    to make some of the stems thinner in the Stylistic Set 01.\r\n\r\nSo for me, the
    Stylistic Sets are a very nice place to include something that effects the whole
    font in a way or another.\r\n\r\nAnother thing that could be included is bold
    and italic. I mean, why not? Of course it gives a hell of big document, but maybe
    it would be nice for the user? Just an idea."
  created: '2006-11-21 12:43:20'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Based on what I've dug up on Typophile & what this thread has discussed I've
    just used a simple calt replacement that Thomas suggested in another thread (which
    of course I can't find now). This is giving me some control over the replacements
    without getting into a bunch of code that, at the moment, makes me nervous.\r\n\r\nFor
    instance, I've set up my \"o_f\" glyph as a calt that is only triggered if preceded
    and followed by \"space\", so that the combined glyph only kicks in for the word
    \"of\". Same sort of thing for long \"R\" and \"K\"; I've selected specific letters
    to follow, and if those letters are entered the long alternates are trigged. Of
    course, the user can always go into the glyph palette and insert any of the glyphs
    anywhere they want, but this is providing a certain amount of functionality without
    having to go into the glyph palette constantly.\r\n\r\nAs for stylistic sets (which
    is, of course, the topic of this thread), I'm still not quite sure if/how I'll
    implement them. As above, the problem is that turning them on and off for key
    strings of text (rather than to a huge selection and thus \"over-doing\" the alternates)
    doesn't seem much better than simply adding alternates manually.\r\n\r\nMy next
    task is to find out if there's a simple way to work with GPOS in FontLab so that
    I can move some of my alternates around in the replacement process."
  created: '2006-11-21 17:41:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "In an effort to try and get this thread back on topic, I think I should try
    to clarify my reason for starting it a bit more.\r\n\r\n(1) I am trying to establish
    a set of \"user\" wishes for what \"they\" might want in a stylistic set so that
    type designers might respond with some things that fit \"users\" needs.  \r\n(2)
    I would take these established \"wishes\" or \"needs\" and create a common table
    of repeated words which could then be translated into many languages. Here is
    a sample:\r\n\r\n\"Substitute\" \"glyphs\" [a, g] with \"alternates\" \"single
    story\".\r\n\r\nAll the words in quotes would be words that need translation into
    other languages. Items in brackets would be common to the languages that might
    use them like glyph names.\r\nWith this system, a language translation table could
    be constructed that would change the Stylistic set named in English, \"Substitute
    glyphs a and g with single story alternates\" into French, German, or whatever
    language is needed on the users system.\r\n\r\nI would then propose to the \"Proper
    Authorities\" of the Opentype consortium and developers like FontLab and Adobe,
    that the stylistic set numbers be replaced with names that fit what they do and
    are easily constructable from a given set of translation variable terms.\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-21 18:02:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There are already terms in feature code like \"sub\" for example that could
    be used as part of the translation table and create \"on the fly\" stylistic sets
    from feature code.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-21 18:06:31'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Chris, if you are looking for codification of the major stylistic sets sought/in
    use, I don't think that is what the stylistic sets are intended for. Or, to be
    precise, I don't think those things should be considered stylistic sets at that
    point.\r\n\r\nThe OpenType feature tags themselves are not a finite set. According
    to MS Typography, \"Microsoft expects the list of registered tags and features
    to expand over time. The most recent version of the registry will be available
    on Microsoft's ftp and World Wide Web sites.\" <em>(I can't find a record of version
    changes, proposed features, a system for proposal submission, or the like, but
    then MS has never been the world leader in open-collaboration tech. I think they
    mostly consider open to be the companies they are in established relationships
    with.)</em>\r\n\r\nFrom this perspective, the question arises, \"What do users/designers
    keep putting in the stylistic sets so repeatedly that that might be better promoted
    to static, official OpenType feature tags?\"\r\n\r\nDoing that would keep the
    stylistic sets open as a testbed for new ideas and one-offs, which I think there
    should be. Of course, I'm still not sure how the feature tag registry is supposed
    to be expanded, but somewhere, someone knows. And I bet they read Typophile. :)\r\n\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-11-22 20:00:58'
- author:
    name: track and kern
  body: "I really like a font to have a set of pre-made superiors and inferiors, or
    nut/em fractions. Maybe I am just lazy, but every font is different, and there
    is no real formula for making fractions if you need to. Projects that involve
    lots of fractions are a nightmare sometimes, simply for this reason. I hate having
    to sit and optically adjust the size of each number, the kerning between it and
    the solidus, and typically, the size of the solidus itself.\r\n\r\nFeminine and
    Masculine ordinals are nice to have, even though I have myself never had to make
    use of any. These seem to be becoming more popular today.\r\n\r\nOff the top of
    my head, I like to think of Whitney by H&FJ as one of the most complete fonts,
    in terms of it's plethora of typographic elements. Certainly, it was designed
    with specific parameters in mind, and absolute necessities for the Whitney Museum,
    but can none of these more obscure features become more standard in OT fonts?"
  created: '2006-11-22 23:58:56'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"Track\": All the things that you mentioned explicitly already have OpenType
    layout features defined and supported - no need for stylistic sets for them.\r\n\r\nChoz:
    Although the OpenType layout features may continue to expand, I expect that the
    remaining expansion of typographic (as opposed to linguistic) features will be
    minimal. For a lot of things that are relatively uncommon, stylistic sets take
    away the impetus to cover them with their own separate features.\r\n\r\nThe OpenType
    feature tag registry can be expanded by Microsoft and Adobe. All you need to do
    is write up a formal proposal in the same format as the other feature tags, and
    maybe some backing explanation for why you think this feature is important. Post
    it to the OpenType list.\r\n\r\nAlternatively, you can go through the Open Font
    Format, which is under ISO. It's under the MPEG spec, and you'd go through your
    national body, either working with somebody who's a member of the MPEG working
    group, or joining the group yourself. This all gets a bit more complicated, and
    I must admit that I don't know all the ins and outs.\r\n\r\nChris: You may indeed
    have misunderstood what I was suggesting. I was suggesting that you put together
    a proposal for *how* in any given font the stylistic sets would relate to user-friendly
    UI name strings. I wasn't particularly suggesting that there be a central registry
    of UI strings. Heck, the spec doesn't even do that for the *existing* layout features!\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-23 06:21:24'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "My own practice of codifying \"salt\" vs. \"ssXX\" is that I completely duplicate
    those two. However, I put one-to-one-from-many substitutions into \"salt\" and
    \"one-to-one\" substitutions into \"ss01\"-\"ss20\". For example, if a font has
    two variant \"a\"s, one variant \"b\" and three variant \"c\"s, I'd define the
    features as follows: \r\n\r\nfeature salt {\r\n  sub a from [a.1 a.2]; \r\n  sub
    b from [b.1]; \r\n  sub c from [c.1 c.2 c.3]; \r\n} salt; \r\n\r\nfeature ss01
    {\r\n  sub a by a.1; \r\n  sub b by b.1; \r\n  sub c by c.1; \r\n} ss01; \r\n\r\nfeature
    ss02 {\r\n  sub a by a.2; \r\n  sub c by c.2; \r\n} ss02; \r\n\r\nfeature ss03
    {\r\n  sub c by c.3; \r\n} ss03; \r\n\r\nI also don't think there is nothing conceptually
    wrong in associating the same substitutions with different features -- if a substitution
    can serve both a semantic and a stylistic purpose, or if a certain feature is
    not really widely supported. \r\n\r\nFor example, if I have a swash \"R\" glyph
    with a really long tail that is mostly suitable to be put at the end of words,
    I'd associate it with both the \"fina\" and the \"swsh\" feature. Similarly, if
    I have two set of small caps in my font, I'd associate the first one with \"smcp\",
    while I'd put the second one into \"pcap\" but also as \"ss01\" of the normal
    small caps: \r\n\r\nfeature smcp {\r\n  sub a by A.smcp; \r\n  ...\r\n} smcp;
    \r\n\r\nfeature pcap {\r\n  sub a by A.pcap; \r\n  ...\r\n} pcap; \r\n\r\nfeature
    ss01 {\r\n  sub A.smcp by A.pcap; \r\n  ...\r\n} ss01; \r\n\r\n(And of course
    if there is a \"ss01\" feature, I'd also place this into \"salt\" because ssXX
    and salt are to me really just different ways of organizing the same information.)
    \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-23 10:26:03'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Christopher writes: \"As I understand it, it\u2019s not really appropriate
    to put a single alternate in \u2018ss**\u2019. A stylistic set should be a set
    of stylistically-related alternates to be activated all at once (as the name implies).\"\r\n\r\nHow
    many does a \"set\" constitute? Is two enough? :> \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-11-23 10:56:34'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Also, Christopher, please note that the Adobe InDesign UI for selecting stylistic
    sets is additive, not mutually exclusive (checkboxes rather than radio buttons).
    This suggests that each ssXX feature may very well operate on a very small set
    of glyphs (even single ones) rather than always referring to an entire alphabet.
    \r\n\r\nIn Zapfino Extra Pro, ss01-ss04 indeed exchange entire alphabets, switching
    between the four basic sets of Zapfino, but ss05-ss10 give access to alternates
    for those glyphs that have more than four alternate forms, which are, of course,
    less and less for the latter sets. For example \"ss09\" only gives access to three
    glyph alternates (\"d\", \"e\" and \"t\") as these are the glyphs with the highest
    number of variants in the font. \r\n\r\nI don't see anything inherently wrong
    with that approach especially that there is no really plausible way for the OpenType
    spec to specify what the minimal size of a \"set\" should be for ssXX. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-23 11:03:19'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Tom Phinney writes: \"I was suggesting that you put together a proposal for
    *how* in any given font the stylistic sets would relate to user-friendly UI name
    strings.\"\r\n\r\nI myself don't really think that this is a particularly good
    idea, especially for the reasons I have written here before: the localization
    of those names will only be incidental. One font vendor may supply set names for
    English only, some other vendor may supply set names for English, German and French,
    and yet another for 12 different languages. Obviously, the larger for vendors
    will be in favor here, but still, what should a user of, say, the Polish language
    version of InDesign see in the menu if the name of the \"Feminine\" set in a given
    font was not localized into Polish? Should he see \"Feminine\" or \"zestaw stylistyczny
    3\"? I don't think the English set name (or Greek, or Chinese, or whatever the
    default set name will be in the font) will say much to a non-English speaker,
    so sticking with the localized stub names (\"zestaw stylistyczny 3\" etc.) will
    probably be a better idea. But this again introduces complications for documentation
    writers (they cannot rely that \"Feminine\" or a translation thereof will always
    be available to users in the UI). \r\n\r\nHowever, *if* people feel having human-readable
    names for stylistic sets in OpenType fonts would be a good idea, I'd recommend
    using a simple scheme: the human-readable names for the ss01-ss20 features should
    be stored in the \"name\" table, using name ids 101-120. For example, name ids
    102.3.1.1033 and 102.1.0.0 would hold the U.S. English names for ss02, and the
    name ids 102.3.1.1045 and 102.1.29.25 (or 102.1.0.25?) would hold the Polish names
    for that feature. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-23 11:15:54'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Descriptive names for ssXX features:\r\n\r\nA (whose?) suggestion in an earlier
    post was good -- the applications' menu should show Set number followed by the
    descriptive name:\r\n\r\n\"Stylistic Sets\" --> \"Set 1: Swash R and K\"\r\n\r\nwhere
    \"Swash R and K\" is the name defined in the font.\r\nIt is important that Set
    1 is shown too, because it makes it clear to the typographer that if he applies
    \"Set 1: Swash R and K\" in one font, he may get \"Set 1: Swash Z\" in another
    font which covers swash R and K in \"Set 3: Swash R and K\".\r\n\r\nLocalization
    of descriptive names:\r\n\r\nI know that you are not fond of English-only descriptive
    names. It is true that to a German or Polish user, the English term may not be
    of much use for he doesn't know what it means.\r\nBut it <cite>does</cite> have
    advantages: Though of no descriptive use for some, it identifies a feature uniquely.
    A Spanish typographer can tell his German collegue to use <cite>this particular
    feature</cite>. With localized versions (of which they see only their own), they
    would have some trouble translating the term such that both will refer to <cite>the
    same</cite> thing!\r\nExample: I wanted to make a little manual showing graphically
    which buttons to press to access a certain style. Thanks to localization of applications
    I ended up with a column of button pairs for 'B' and 'I' (English), 'G' and 'I'
    (French), 'F' and 'K' (German), &c.\r\nAnother example, more OpenType related:
    I tend to speak of InDesign's \"Stylistic Set\" features. But some German typographer
    collegues didn't understand what I was talking about. Finally I recognized that
    in the localized German InDesign \"Stylistic Sets\" are translated as \"Formats\xE4tze\".
    Without access to a German ID version, I would have been lost in finding a translation
    letting me point to them.\r\n\r\nSo, for me, identification is much more important
    than meaning. The average user doesn't know what a (German) typograpic term \"Kursiv\"
    means either, but knows what happens if he clicks the 'K' button ('I' for Americans).&nbsp;&nbsp;:)\r\nIn
    applications that support them to date, Stylistic Set features are offered in
    their own submenu. So users might understand a language switch, and that it's
    due to the font, not the application.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2006-11-23 12:40:09'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> A Spanish typographer can tell his German collegue \r\n> to use this particular
    feature\r\n\r\nBut using this argument, the only logical consequence would be
    to use English-only names for ALL OpenType features, including Swash, Old-Style
    Figures etc. My point is that you should localize all or none -- having half-translated
    and half-foreign menus is something from the 20th century. \r\n\r\nBut bad translations
    should be fixed there where they are broken: by fixing the translations, not by
    introducing some additional complication to the system. \r\n\r\nI know that some
    translations for the OpenType Layout features in Adobe applications are nonsense.
    I've consulted with Winsoft (who did the localization of Adobe Creative Suite
    applications into Polish) on the translation of the typographic terminology in
    these apps. They used some, though not all, of my suggestions. \r\n\r\nThe question
    that you need to ask yourself is: what is the purpose for these human-readable
    names to be included in OpenType fonts. If this is to just provide \"some labels\"
    for the features, fine, but let's be clear about it. Then they can be completely
    arbitrary, not necessarily localized. The sets can be then called \"Blue\", \"Green\",
    \"Orange\" or \"Chicago\", \"New York\" and \"Paris\". It's fancy, but I don't
    think it's significantly better than \"Set 1\", \"Set 2\", \"Set 3\" -- though
    some mnemotechnic can help users differentiate them. \r\n\r\nHowever, if the names
    are, indeed, to tell to the user what the set actually contains, then, logically
    speaking, they should be localized. But here all my doubts creep in -- will these
    localizations really do any good? \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-23 13:25:57'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Ok, I'll be clear about it. The stylistic sets' names will always vary from
    foundry to foundry, and often from font to font. If things were regularized, it
    would hinder the use of the Sets. Since what they look like, what they do, and
    all that is up to the designer, it makes sense that the names are, too. I specifically
    included oddball set names as an example to show why it might be good not to translate
    them, but use them only as mnemonic devices. Perhaps funkier names would have
    been a better example; \"Baldwin Bros.\" \"Supadupa\" and \"Sqoooshed\u2122\".\r\n\r\nIf
    a designer wants them to have a valid meaning in one language, or encode translations
    of them for several, fine. To be clear, the few applications that support sets
    show them now as numbers. <strong>This should remain, regardless of name</strong>.
    The names should be mere additions, not replacements. Since Thomas is reading
    this, and (I think) has a profound impact on those developing the only cutting-edge
    applicans using OT, I suspect that it is a non-issue, anyway.\r\n\r\nOf course,
    if the creator doesn't see a benefit to the us of the names, they could always
    leave them blank. So this is a win-win situation.\r\n\r\nIf a stylistic set simply
    alters a few specific characters, it might be a best practice to comma delineate
    them in the set's name field, since that is inherently international. But that
    would be a designer's choice, or custom, like using the set-names in the first
    place.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The
    Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-11-23 14:05:36'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>For a lot of things that are relatively uncommon, stylistic sets take
    away the impetus to cover them with their own separate features.</em>\r\n\r\nThen
    they are doing what I think they were intended to do very well. If some feature,
    particularly typographic, becomes so common that users/creators expect it in the
    font, it seems that would be the time to \"graduate\" that feature to its own
    tag. The first thing I've heard of is this small-caps-lining-figures, and while
    that may be worthy, I leave it to someone else to care more for now.\r\n\r\nIt
    is suggested at wikipedia that AAT, and here that Metafont offer more typographic
    flexibility than OpenType does. Since OT can be expanded, are there a few specific
    simple things that could be added as permanent features that would change this
    perception? I don't think  it could or should develop to the complexity of metafont,
    but perhaps a standardized space should be made for a few more \"goodies\"?\r\n\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-11-23 14:20:49'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> The first thing I\u2019ve heard of is this small-caps-lining-figures,\r\n>
    and while that may be worthy, I leave it to someone else \r\n> to care more for
    now.\r\n\r\nIs there a reason why you would not simply associate the small-caps-lining
    figures with \"smcp\"? \r\n\r\n> It is suggested at wikipedia that AAT, and here
    that Metafont \r\n> offer more typographic flexibility than OpenType does. \r\n\r\nYes,
    and this is exactly the reason why AAT and Metafont only have one implementation
    and are therefore proprietary insular solutions, while OpenType has many implementations
    and is widespread. It is much easier for engineers to implement simple things
    than to implement \"flexible\" things. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-11-24 20:02:06'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "Hi Adam. Yes, I think two in a set is enough. The point is to communicate
    a shared style among more than one glyph.\r\n\r\nAnd I did indeed choose the word
    \"appropriate\" deliberately, because I don't think anyone wants to characterize
    a one-substitution set as \"illegal\" -- it's just that it seems to violate the
    spirit of the feature. If one has just one subsitution, then I think one should
    put it in 'salt'."
  created: '2006-11-24 20:10:03'
- author:
    name: track and kern
  body: well, i apologize, i think that this question has more to do with the coding
    behind the fonts then the characters themselves. I know very little about this,
    so don't mind me. However, I was thinking that we might be approaching this problem
    the wrong way around. Instead of asking people to rattle off what they "want",
    why not make a list of what we "have" (typically available in any well designed/programmed
    font), and then go from there?
  created: '2006-11-24 22:03:14'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Adam Twardoch wrote: <cite>But using this argument, the only logical consequence
    would be to use English-only names for ALL OpenType features, including Swash,
    Old-Style Figures etc. My point is that you should localize all or none [...]\r\nBut
    here all my doubts creep in \u2014 will these localizations really do any good?</cite>\r\n\r\nFully
    agreed.\r\n\r\n<cite>The question that you need to ask yourself is: what is the
    purpose for these human-readable names to be included in OpenType fonts. [...]
    The sets can be then called \u201CBlue\u201D, \u201CGreen\u201D, \u201COrange\u201D
    or \u201CChicago\u201D, \u201CNew York\u201D and \u201CParis\u201D. It\u2019s
    fancy, but I don\u2019t think it\u2019s significantly better than \u201CSet 1\u201D,
    \u201CSet 2\u201D, \u201CSet 3\u201D \u2014 though some mnemotechnic can help
    users differentiate them.</cite>\r\n\r\nI did ask myself the question.\r\nThe
    last point you make is not to be underestimated. For those who can read English
    names, great; those who cannot may still guess at the meaning because of similarity
    of terms in both languages; and the rest may remember the sound or look of the
    words.\r\nIn a syntax like \"Set 1: Human-readable name\", the colon should make
    clear that what follows is an attempt at describing the content, nothing more.\r\nSo
    I'd say, add English names, but no further localization. I'd be happy to do this.
    With 1-2-3 I am lost even in my own fonts.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2006-11-24 22:04:36'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>Is there a reason why you would not simply associate the small-caps-lining
    figures with \u201Csmcp\u201D?</em>\r\n\r\nBecause this thread spawned from a
    thread about how the Small Caps commonly come with SC-sized Text Figures, and
    the other Lining Figures don't match. While it might make sense to turn on Small
    Caps and Lining Numerals, that doesn't always mean that you will get small-caps-lining-numerals;
    in fact you will probably get something very different.\r\n\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\nStylistic
    Sets are highly discretionary things. While I think best practice would to be
    to place a single alt in &lt;salt&gt;, and matching alts :gt;1 in a s. set, I
    would hardly begrudge anyone for doing otherwise, that's their free-space to play
    a bit. (And OpenType is young.)\r\n\r\nPerhaps we should choose to think of the
    whole issue differently. The <em>name</em> of stylistic set no. 1 is <strong>&lt;ss01&gt;
    </strong>. The personal appellation describing it is something else; a label,
    subtitle, whatever you please. So if one is compelled to wonder what an application
    developer will do with the <em>name</em>, that's about their implementation of
    OpenType, not the type designer's choice of label. Let's use label. \r\n\r\nOn
    another note, where are &lt;21&gt; through &lt;99&gt;? :)\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-11-24 23:57:25'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<strong>Here's one:</strong>\r\nI just bought LTC Metropolitan and the README
    says:\r\n \r\n<cite>Metropolitan Italic Pro (Opentype) combines two of Frederic
    Wardes versions of Arrighi. Accessible in the contextual alternates feature, the
    alternate ascenders, g, y, and ampersand were found in the original version of
    Arrighi from 1925. \r\nThe only difference is that the upright caps that were
    originally paired with the type have not been included. There is also a swash
    'e' added in the swash feature, as well as all standard ligatures.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    would prevent them from adding the upright caps as a stylistic set? I myself think
    that it is a pretty cool idea. One of my favorite italics is Celestia Antiqua
    Italic, and it DOES have the Roman caps."
  created: '2006-11-25 00:09:04'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Choz, \r\n\r\nif the user wants small-cap-sized lining numerals, the most
    likely way he'd want to access them would be through the smcp feature, I think.
    Consider that you have six sets of figures in your font: \r\none -- uppercase
    lining proportional\r\none.lnum_tnum -- uppercase lining tabular\r\none.onum_pnum
    -- text oldstyle proportional\r\none.onum_tnum -- text oldstyle tabular\r\none.pnum_smcp
    -- small-caps lining proportional\r\none.smcp_tnum -- small-caps lining tabular\r\n\r\nIn
    this case, a thorough approach for implementing the OpenType Layout features could
    be as follows (of course, instead of \"one\", the real implementation would take
    care of entire classes): \r\n\r\nfeature smcp { \r\n  sub one by one.pnum_smcp;\r\n
    \ sub one.onum_pnum by one.pnum_smcp;\r\n  sub one.onum_tnum by one.smcp_tnum;\r\n
    \ sub one.lnum_tnum by one.smcp_tnum;\r\n} smcp; \r\nfeature lnum { \r\n  sub
    one.onum_pnum by one;\r\n  sub one.onum_tnum by one.lnum_tnum;\r\n} lnum; \r\nfeature
    onum { \r\n  sub one by one.onum_pnum;\r\n  sub one.lnum_tnum by one.onum_tnum;\r\n
    \ sub one.pnum_smcp by one.onum_pnum;\r\n  sub one.smcp_tnum by one.onum_tnum;\r\n}
    onum; \r\nfeature pnum { \r\n  sub one.lnum_tnum by one;\r\n  sub one.onum_tnum
    by one.onum_pnum;\r\n  sub one.smcp_tnum by one.pnum_smcp;\r\n} pnum; \r\nfeature
    tnum { \r\n  sub one by one.lnum_tnum;\r\n  sub one.onum_pnum by one.onum_tnum;\r\n
    \ sub one.pnum_smcp by one.smcp_tnum;\r\n} tnum; \r\n\r\nUsing this approach,
    in InDesign, the user would get the small cap lining proportional figures by selecting
    \"Small Caps\" combined with \"Default Figure Style\" or with \"Proportional Lining\",
    while he'd get the small cap lining tabular figures by selecting \"Small Caps\"
    combined with \"Tabular Lining\". Selecting \"Small Caps\" in combination with
    \"Proportional Oldstyle\" or with \"Tabular Oldstyle\" would give the user small
    cap letters mixed with the text oldstyle figures (proportional or tabular, respectively).
    \r\n\r\nI don't quite see the reason why anyone would need a new feature for small-cap
    figures only. \r\n\r\n(Edit: This post is really more appropriate for this thread:
    http://typophile.com/node/29580 so I apologize for cross-posting.)\r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-11-25 14:47:53'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Choz > On another note, where are <21> through <99>? :)\r\n\r\nOpenType Layout
    feature tags \"ss21\" to \"ss99\" are not registered by Microsoft. However, font
    developers are free to include unregistered OpenType Layout feature tags in their
    fonts. Most applications will not support these but those applications that give
    the user direct access to all OpenType Layout feature tags included in the font
    will (e.g. XeTeX, GlyphGate, the Glyph Palette in InDesign CS2 or Illustrator
    CS2).  \r\n\r\nKarsten > add English names, but no further localization\r\n\r\nWhy
    only English and not only Japanese or only Arabic? \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-11-25 14:54:01'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Christopher, \r\n\r\nof course, the practical problem is that InDesign gives
    the user access to \"ssXX\" but not \"salt\", while Illustrator gives the user
    access to \"salt\" but not \"ssXX\". \r\n\r\nIn Zapfino Extra Pro, I chose a following
    method (given that a a.2 a.3 a.4 are the four basic styles): \r\n\r\n# For Illustrator\r\nfeature
    salt { \r\n  sub a from [a.2 a.3 a.4]; \r\n} salt; \r\nfeature swsh {\r\n  sub
    a from [a.3 a.4];\r\n  sub a.2 from [a.4];\r\n} swsh; \r\n# For InDesign\r\nfeature
    ss01 {\r\n  sub [a.2 a.3 a.4] by [a a a]; \r\n} ss01; \r\nfeature ss02 {\r\n  sub
    [a a.3 a.4] by [a.2 a.2 a.2]; \r\n} ss02; \r\nfeature ss03 {\r\n  sub [a a.2 a.4]
    by [a.3 a.3 a.3]; \r\n} ss03; \r\nfeature ss04 {\r\n  sub [a a.2 a.3] by [a.4
    a.4 a.4]; \r\n} ss04; \r\n\r\nIn InDesign, the access to the basic four sets is
    through ss01-ss04 (while the first set is also visible when no Stylistic Set is
    chosen). In Illustrator, the access to the first basic set is with no formatting
    applied and to the three further sets is through salt, swsh and salt+swsh (which
    can be conveniently toggled in the OpenType palette). \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-11-25 15:05:28'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>Using this approach, in InDesign, the user would get the small cap lining
    p...</em>\r\n\r\nFor the non-coding designers thats a beefy bit of text. Now that
    you've explained, its clear why you were saying that a new feature tag would be
    unneeded. Just makes we wish there was friendlier dev tools already out there.
    \r\n\r\n<em>Karsten > add English names, but no further localization\r\nWhy only
    English and not only Japanese or only Arabic? </em>\r\nCall them labels, and allow
    them in whatever languages the designer pleases! Leave the names as SSxx.\r\n\r\n<em>However,
    font developers are free to include unregistered OpenType Layout feature tags
    in their fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nShould I ever find 20 sets not enough, I'll just move
    attempt to register them, makes more sense than not doing so when it is extensible.
    Or, if I have more than 20 S. Sets, I'll just shoot myself.\r\n\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-11-26 01:08:43'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Choz, \r\n\r\nif you ever find yourself in a need of more than 20 stylistic
    sets, it may make just as much sense to split them into separate fonts :) \r\n\r\n>
    Just makes we wish there was friendlier dev tools \r\n> already out there.\r\n\r\nYou
    have a choice of two: Microsoft VOLT (which is WYSIWYG and pretty friendly for
    the simple stuff, although it has some rough edges for the more complicated tasks)
    and AFDKO/FontLab Studio which uses the text-based notation developed by Adobe.
    It is not entirely WYSIWYG but allows pretty rapid development and easy re-use
    of the code. \r\n\r\nIn general, if you feel that design is your strength but
    not development, it's often easier to hire a font developer to do the technical
    mastering of your fonts. Font production is not just all about design, there are
    some technical aspects involved which require slightly different skills than those
    of a designer. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nA.\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "I use VOLT. It's utilitarian and stable, but what I would love to see is
      virtually the same thing, with a fully drag and drop, select from menus type
      thing. However, it is far beyond my resources to pursue that at this time.\r\n\r\nI
      am a bit geeky for a designer, and the same I suspect is true of most people
      interested in type today. Even if I were to out-source the code side of  a font,
      I like to know how things work enough to not ask for something impossible. Knowing
      the rules also creates new ideas. Besides, how would one know what the going
      rate was for such things? \r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
      Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type
      Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
    created: '2006-11-27 05:04:55'
  created: '2006-11-26 09:09:51'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "It depends on the project but you can find people who'll charge $200-$300
    for a fairly straightforward font family up to $2000-$3000 if the font involves
    complex contextual substitutions. If you want additional consulting on things
    like character sets, glyph naming, font naming etc., the amount will likely double.
    If extra work needs to be done on the font (merging of character sets, copying
    of kerning information, hinting etc.), this of course adds up, too. \r\n\r\nThese
    amounts are usually per a unique set of fonts. If your regular, your light and
    your bold have the same character set, you'll be able to split the price between
    them, arriving at a price of $50-$100 (for as simple font), and that's a price
    that is compensated after 2-3 sales of the font. If your italics have the same
    character set, that's also included -- if they're different (e.g. extra ligatures),
    some 50% more would apply. \r\n\r\nThere may be some colleagues out there who
    are slightly cheaper. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-27 08:58:44'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "Would it be appropriate to put Optical Sizes into the Stylistic Sets, like\r\n\r\n<code>ss01:
    Body Text\r\nss02: Caption\r\nss03: Subhead\r\nss04: Display\r\nss05: Poster</code>\r\n\r\nand
    so on? Adobe uses different fonts for those, properly style-linked so that they
    appear in the font panel's dropdown menu. Apart from a cluttered menu, the big
    issue with this approach is that switching between optical sizes (styles), disorders
    the weight, width and style (!) formatting within the text. When, for example,
    a certain string was marked as italic and the overall formatting of the text bloc
    that holds the string has Caption applied, one is forced to do the italic formatting
    over at every single instance, if suddenly the text bloc needed to be set in Subhead.
    (That is, if no character and/or paragraph styles are used.)\r\n\r\nStylistic
    Sets might offer a solution to this problem, although it would imply that the
    actual font would hold twice, thrice or too many more glyph sets. Is there a better
    solution to handle optical sizes? (Suppose, in addition, that one might want to
    create a family with optical sizes for every single point size\u2026)\r\n\r\nStylistic
    Sets could perhaps more effectively be used for width and style (!) styles proper,
    e.g.\r\n\r\n<code>ss01: Book\r\nss02: Bold\r\nss03: Light\r\nss04: SemiBold\r\nss05:
    Black\r\nss06: ExtraBlack</code>\r\n\r\nor similarly:\r\n\r\n<code>ss07: RegularWidth\r\nss08:
    Condensed\r\nss09: Extended</code>\r\n\r\nand, taking advance of the fact that
    Stylist Sets are additive:\r\n\r\n<code>[\xD7] ss04: SemiBold\r\n[\xD7] ss08:
    Condensed</code>"
  created: '2006-12-04 02:06:47'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Ludwig, \r\n\r\n1. Optical sizes, different weights or different widths usually
    imply different ascender, descender or x-height lines in fonts. However, you can
    only have one such information per font so that for the additional \"stylistic
    sets\", the font would contain false information. \r\n\r\n2. Fonts have classification
    information in them, e.g. the PANOSE classification numbers, information about
    width, weight etc. This information, combined with the information about ascenders,
    descenders or the x-height, allows font matching systems to substitute a close
    matching font when the original is unavailable. If you stuff all the glyphs into
    one font, this systems will no longer work. \r\n\r\n4. Many applications that
    are not intended for professional page layout (e.g. Excel) do not and never will
    support OpenType Layout features such as stylistic sets. \r\n\r\n5. OpenType fonts
    have a physical glyph limit of 65,536 glyphs per font. Having 5x as many glyphs
    as you currently do for European fonts is typically not a problem (currently,
    you have around 1000-2000 glyphs, so you'd have 5000-10,000) but for large multilingual
    fonts, especially Asian fonts, it would be a problem. \r\n\r\n6. There is no cross-platform
    or even cross-application standard for OpenType Layout feature tagging when exchanging
    formatted text (through the clipboard or through text files e.g. RTF files). If
    you apply a combination of stylistic sets in InDesign and copy-paste the text
    into Word, it will come in as plain text -- all the formatting will be lost. If
    you use different fonts to denote different weights or styles, the information
    is typically preserved. \r\n\r\n7. It is easier to charge users per font. You
    can sell single fonts for $20 each and entire families for $200 or $400. Users
    will be less likely to pay $200 for just one font even if it contained an unlimited
    number of styles -- this is the experience that Adobe made with Multiple Master
    fonts. Also, with such monster all-in-one fonts, it's less possible to differentiate
    the offerings: currently, you can sell a complete family for $400 to more professional
    users while you only sell one or two styles, $20 each, for less demanding users
    who are on a smaller budget. The monster fonts would only allow you to do \"all
    or nothing\", or you'd have to produce different subsets of fonts, but then you
    run into family naming conflicts etc. \r\n\r\nTherefore, I don't think your idea
    will ever work. The only situation where I think it might make sense would be
    with italic glyphs. Italics are often mixed with roman styles and currently, there
    is no way to devise spacing/kerning in character pairs when the font is switched.
    If upright and italic glyphs were placed in one font, this would be easier to
    implement. Actually, there is an \"ital\" feature but it is only used in Asian
    fonts. \r\n\r\nThe problem however is again that there is only one set of metric
    information per font. Italic fonts usually contain information about the slope
    angle, which is used by text editing applications to draw a sloped text cursor
    on the screen. If the italic glyphs were stored as variants in an upright font,
    this information would not be available. \r\n\r\nIn short: I think the system
    does make sense the way it is now. I don't think you can expect revolutionary
    changes anytime soon. "
  created: '2006-12-04 19:28:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Is there a better solution to handle optical sizes?</em>\r\n\r\nIt should
    be handled by the application, in a similar manner to Quark's \"Tracking Utility\",
    which enables the user to set different tracking values for a font, according
    to the size it is used.\r\n\r\nThe Optical Scale utility would say:\r\n\r\nFont
    Family: Harmony\r\n72+ pt: Harmony Poster\r\n36-72pt; Harmony Display\r\n18-36pt:
    Harmony Subhead\r\n12-18pt: Harmony Caption\r\n9-12pt; Harmony Text\r\nless than
    9pt: Harmony Small\r\n\r\nThis is an example for a family with six optical sizes,
    if such a thing exists.\r\nThe user would determine which sizes are appropriate
    for the different optical sizes.\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-04 20:12:01'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\nthe Adobe OpenType fonts include the information about optical
    sizes. Adobe InDesign has a mechanism for automatically selecting optical sizes
    depending on the point size but... this mechanism in the current version of Adobe
    InDesign only works with old Multiple Master fonts that have an optical size axis
    (that Adobe announced obsolete 7 years ago), while the mechanism does not work
    with new OpenType fonts (that Adobe have been promoting for the last 7 years).
    \r\n\r\nI hope that this will change. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-04 20:21:43'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "BTW, I recommend everyone interested in the topic (Adobe support for automatic
    selection of optical sizes in OpenType fonts) to file a product feature request
    at: \r\n\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/support/feature.html\r\n\r\nThe more different
    people submit this, the more likely a feature will be actually implemented. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2006-12-04 20:31:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Who all would I lobby for support for logically named feature sets instead
    of meaningless numbers?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-04 20:34:37'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I have submitted the following message to the OpenType list. All interested
    parties who are not subscribed to the OpenType list are invited to join at: opentype-migration-sub@indx.co.uk\r\n\r\n==\r\n\r\nA
    set of twenty new name IDs is reserved in the \"name\" table to represent user-friendly
    labels for OpenType stylistic sets. \r\n\r\nThe new name IDs range from 31 to
    50, corresponding to the OpenType Layout feature tags ss01-ss20 (name ID 31 represents
    a label for the \"ss01\" feature, name ID 45 represents a label for the \"ss15\"
    feature etc.) \r\n\r\nWhen an OpenType-savvy application examines an OpenType
    font and finds a user-friendly label for a stylistic set included in a font, that
    label should be displayed instead of a generic label such as \"Stylistic Set 4\".
    \r\n\r\nThe new name IDs need only to be specified for platform \"3\" and encoding
    \"1\". Typically, a font developer specifies the user-friendly label in the 1033
    (U.S. English) language, but any valid Microsoft Language ID can be used. If the
    font does not contain a label in the language of the application user interface
    but contains a U.S. English label, the application may choose to display that
    name; alternatively, it may choose to display a localized generic label (e.g.
    \"Zestaw stylistyczny 4\" for Polish). \r\n\r\nFor a given Microsoft Language
    ID, a particular name ID represents the user-friendly label for the corresponding
    ssXX feature across all writing systems and language systems defined in the font.
    If a stylistic set feature is implemented differently across scripts and language
    systems (e.g. one substitution is done in the ss01 feature for the Arabic script,
    and another, visually unrelated substitution is done in the ss01 feature for the
    Latin script), the font developer should pick a user-friendly label that adequately
    describes all these behaviors collectively, or should not specify user-friendly
    labels for such font. \r\n\r\n==\r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-04 21:25:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Adam!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-04 21:51:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Adam,\r\nIs it possible for me to second the motion on your posted request?
    I assume the more people who agree with it will make it have greater weight.\r\n\r\nMy
    whole point for starting this thread was to try to get user-friendly labels for
    OpenType SS.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-04 21:57:42'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "A feature that would substitute the word \"and\" by an ampersand (in all
    languages to which this is appropriate). It could be placed as a lookup into one
    of the Stylistic Sets and/or in the swsh feature.\r\n\r\nFor example:\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    AMPS { # Substitutes the word \"and\" by an ampersand (&).\r\n\tscript latn;\r\n\tlanguage
    ENG;\r\n\t\tsub space a' n' d' space by ampersand;\r\n\t\tsub space e' t' c [space
    period] by ampersand;\r\n\tlanguage NLD;\r\n\t\tsub space e' n' space by ampersand;\r\n\t\tsub
    space e' n' z [space period] by ampersand;\r\n\tlanguage DEU;\r\n\t\tsub space
    u' n' d' space by ampersand;\r\n\t\tsub space u' s w [space period] by ampersand;\r\n}</code>\r\n\r\nIn
    the past I have spent hours, time & again, to do this manually for a magazine."
  created: '2006-12-05 14:32:34'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "BTW, as I understand it correctly, these kind of customised wish-features
    shouldn't necessarily be filed to the registries at MS/Adobe, for they will not
    and cannot all be implemented in the user applications (for that would result
    in too many options and an almost infinite list of checkboxes in the UI palettes).\r\n\r\nTherefore
    I think Chris's suggestion is very useful, in that the Stylistic Sets (are intended
    to) offer a resort for these customised discretionary features, and hence should
    have clear and unambiguous name flags, in the way Adam proposed.\r\n\r\nNevertheless,
    and additionally, I think it would be a great thing, would a default feature (DFLT)
    be implemented at all levels. This default feature would include all the lookups
    the font designer deems necessary and would \u2013 if it were to be implemented
    as a standard feature \u2013 give access (at once, without partial deselecting
    options that is) to all the features that are otherwise not accessible\u2014with
    the exception of lookup types that are not yet supported. The user application
    should, of course, apply this DFLT feature by default, but must offer the possibilty
    to turn it of. Too, the DFLT feature might be overruled by the functions of other
    features, if they are selected."
  created: '2006-12-05 14:52:43'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Ludwig, \r\n\r\nampersand is a separate character, a semantic entity on its
    own. Replacing \"and\" or \"und\" with \"&\" is like replacing the word \"brother\"
    with the word \"bro\". This involves changing the actual encoding of the text,
    and therefore should not be done on the glyph level (within the OpenType Layout
    features) but on the character level (through copy-paste). \r\n\r\nOf course,
    you're free to create unregistered features in your fonts, but a feature that
    does what *you* propose will never be registered at Adobe/Microsoft, and therefore
    very unlikely to be exposed in a user interface of any GUI applications. \r\n\r\nI
    don't understand the purpose of your DFLT feature. If you associate all the lookups
    in your font into it, then letters will be replaced by ligatures and those will
    be replaced by small caps and those will be replaced by swashes and the numbers
    will be replaced by oldstyle figures and those by superscript figures and those
    by yet something else. What's the point? The final effect will likely be nonsense.
    I really can't follow. \r\n\r\nThere are dozens and dozens of features available
    in the OpenType specification. Rather than adding new like crazy, I think type
    designers should concentrate on implementing the existing ones in their fonts.
    There really are provisions for most cases already there. And if a large group
    of designers really finds that a particular new feature or two need to be added,
    then the specification owners may consider it. But certainly not some \"universal\",
    \"flexible\", \"access to anything possible\" kind of features. This is the GX
    trap that the type industry tripped over 15 years ago. Apple wanted to produce
    a typographic machine that was able to do \"everything\", and I mean really \"everything\".
    The result was so complex that nobody except Apple produced fonts that supported
    it. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-05 18:45:21'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "Adam \u2014 I guess I must have explained it not too well. The DFLT feature
    would *not* make faulty substitution and/or position changes. All it would do
    is apply the functions the font developer means should be the default settings
    for his particular font. If he wants that his font should be displayed with small
    caps, he should take care the DFLT feature of his font would substitute strings
    of uppercases only. If he wants ligatures are applied, he should take care the
    coding of his DFLT feature would be such that the substitutions take place after
    everything else he means should be substituted by default. In short: it al depends
    on the font developer, and of the liability of his coding, no more no less.\r\n\r\nAs
    for a possible AMPS feature(*), I explicitly wrote that these kind of custom wish-features
    should and cannot be implemented by user applications, precisely because of the
    reason you rehearsed. I also said that it is unlikely that they would ever be
    registered all, and that this is for the best. In fact, I gave the AMPS feature
    as an example to illustrate that an infinite list of features that will never
    be implemented in the user apps, and neither should (there are indeed already
    too many dozens of them), is nothing but a theoretical list of desiderata, or
    a source of inspiration for font developers.\r\n\r\nI therefore concluded that
    in order to solve this, a DFLT feature might take care of all features that have
    and never will have place within the user apps. To-date font developers must hijack
    registered features to do this, and even then, not all of those are implemented
    across applications and platforms; most prominent examples are LIGA in MS Office
    and the SS## features that, as I understand it, were precisely intended for this
    purpose (custom features). The SS## features, however, offer no real solution,
    since, no-way Word, for instance, will have checkboxes for them soon, if ever.
    Just one checkbox for one DFLT feature would solve all this.\r\n\r\n(*) I know
    the ampersand has a Unicode codepoint (U+0026). So have fi (U+FB01), ff (U+FB00),
    fl (U+FB02), ffi (U+FB03, ffl (U+FB04), and even longs_t (U+FB05) and rounds_t.swsh
    (U+FB06). Does this imply these are all semantic entities, as you suggest? Sure,
    ampersand is a separate character, but according to Unicode, so is \uFB01. Now,
    could you point out one language in which ampersand is a semantic unit? True,
    ampersand is used in programming languages and the like, but this is precisely
    why ampersand should be the result of a swash sub-feature substitution, i.e. at
    the glyph level, rather than the level of the character encoding of the text,
    so that text still remains searchable and editable (spell check, hyphenation).
    Historically ampersand is a ligature; it was exhaustively used, e.g. in British
    typography, as a ligature and still being a ligature, it could still serve the
    same typographical purpose.\r\n\r\n{EDIT: Ampersand is used as a separate, though
    not strictly semantic unit, in corporate names. Nevertheless an ampersand substitution
    lookup would not affect this use, and still remains useful in some circumstances,
    as explained above.}"
  created: '2006-12-05 22:37:18'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Ludwig, \r\n\r\nthe U+FBxx codepoints have a \"presentational\" status, just
    like many presentational codepoints for Arabic. They do not constitute separate
    semantic entities and are encoded in Unicode mainly because they existes as separate
    codepoints in some old 8-bit codepages. \r\n\r\nAs for your DFLT feature, if you
    mean a feature that should be always applied to the text without any additional
    user intervention -- there is actually such a provision in the OpenType specification.
    There is a \"required processing\" flag that any feature may have. However, I
    believe no actual clients support this and I believe that Adobe and Microsoft
    intend to drop this mechanism from the spec (for various reasons). \r\n\r\nIf
    you want a particular glyph appear by default when a particular Unicode codepoint
    is keyed in, the easiest way to achieve this is to simply assign that Unicode
    codepoint to that glyph. No extra OpenType features need to be applied then. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-06 00:26:22'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Historically ampersand is a ligature\r\n\r\nYes, of the Latin word \"et\",
    not of \"and\", \"und\" or anything else. Historically, \"\xE4\" is also a ligature,
    as are countless other characters. That itself does not make a point. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-12-06 00:28:56'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "Well, at least the author who devised the following lookup, obviously must
    have thought the same about the typographical viability of my ampersand proposal.\r\n\r\n\xBB<strong>Example
    3.</strong> This calls a <cite>ligature substitution</cite> lookup. The rule below
    means: in sequences \"e t c\" or \"e.init t c\", substitute the first two glyphs
    by\r\nthe ampersand.\r\n\r\n<code>substitute [e e.init]' t' c by ampersand;</code>\xAB\r\n\r\n(From
    the FontLab Studio 5 User's Manual for Windows, release 5.2 [5/2006], p.861)"
  created: '2006-12-06 00:53:46'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I apologize for that passage. It is based on very early concepts of the OpenType
    spec (1999 or so), which have since then been revoked. We will edit the manual
    and replace the example with something more reasonable. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam
    Twardoch\r\nFontlab Ltd. \r\n"
  created: '2006-12-06 18:55:27'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "\r\nIf you want to show support for the idea that I posted (about extending
    the \"name\" table to allow user-friendly labels for the ssXX features), please
    subscribe to the OpenType list (I posted an address in my earlier posting) and
    voice your support there. \r\n\r\nA."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Rhythmus.be
      picture: 111885
    body: "Adam \u2014 I did send a message (on monday) to the mail address you posted,
      but got no approval so far. I like to subscribe to the OT list indeed, and will
      strongly support your proposal for those name flags on the SSXX features."
    created: '2006-12-06 23:40:41'
  created: '2006-12-06 18:57:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Adam,\r\nI did submit a request and got a reply back saying: \"Your subscription
    request to the list is awaiting approval by a moderator.\"\r\n\r\nI don't know
    how long the moderator takes to allow me in the list but I certainly will support
    your proposal as soon as they do. (assuming I am accepted)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-07 00:24:25'
- body: "Mathematics and Punctuation sets I\u2019m not entirely sure that this is
    an Opentype issue, but it\u2019s something that I think matters. In big fonts
    its important that I can access punctuation and mathematical characters from the
    glyphs menu of whatever software I\u2019m using. Right now its faster to get out
    a book of keyboard commands and find the right chord to get to this stuff than
    it is to find it in the glyphs menu of a massive font.\r\n----------------\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.wowgoldbest.com/\">wow gold</a>"
  created: '2007-03-10 05:28:27'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "For some reason having to do with some sort of past problem, to get in to
    the OT Big Boys list (called OpenType Migration), you need to send a short request
    with who you are and why you would like to join. This is read by a human, and
    then you are approved, or not, by them.\r\n\r\nOne of the problems with an public
    yet proprietary spec, I guess. I hate mailing lists, as internet technology goes,
    but if thats where the discussion is at..."
  created: '2007-03-10 07:30:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Choz,\r\nI have since been admitted to the list and voiced my support for
    labeled stylistic sets. I have not heard a peep about it though so my guess is
    that it has either been discussed already or there is not much interest.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-10 14:14:26'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I'm on there, too, but I missed the chance to voice my support behind what
    I would consider a real improvement. Its been a ton of grief switching host/email
    providers. Now, I would hesitate to bring it up again until I knew Ludwig was
    on the list, too.\r\n\r\nI wish there was some sort of system like the Unicode
    organization has, where it could be proposed and officially approved, denied or
    what not, with a record. If there was enough support, how long would it take for
    inclusion in the next version? Who knows.\r\n\r\nEven then, it doesn't mean that
    applications will support the named fields, even if it was easy. CS3, for example,
    is probably feature-locked, or close, today. It will take a long time, for SS
    names to make progress."
  created: '2007-03-10 16:03:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My understanding is that a recent poll of graphic designers showed that few
    of them even know what opentype is. That is part of the problem as well. Perhaps
    we need a campaign to push the concept or at least a spot on \"Are You as Smart
    as a 5th Grader\" to get the message out. Maybe there might be enough interest
    at TypeCon to have a session on \"Open up to Opentype\". If there is any interest
    in this topic, I would offer to be a moderator of a panel session on this with
    a panel of type designers and foundries there to push the message out. \"Take
    an Opentype to Lunch Today\". \"Opentype isn't Just for Breakfast Anymore\"\r\n\r\n
    ChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-10 17:07:51'
date: '2006-11-20 20:19:52'
node_type: forum
title: Opentype Stylistic Sets--what would "users" like to see in them?

---
