---
author:
  name: charles ellertson
body: "When you guys make new fonts -- or revisit older ones -- can you remember to
  kern quotedblleft quoteleft, so \"'He said'\" doesn't look so bad? And quotedblleft
  quoteright, for \"'Tis of thee I mutter . . .\" I suppose those in the UK would
  prefer the reverse, and it couldn't hurt, along with the right/dblright.\r\n\r\nAnd
  for the two or three of us who still use type for book printing, kerning with superscript
  numbers would be very helpful. Footnote calls usually follow periods, commas, and
  quotemarks. If those could be kerned, we could struggle on & kern the other superscripts
  by hand.\r\n\r\nAnother wish would be a set of long descenders for type designs
  where they would be appropriate."
comments:
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "How long are the long descenders you yearn for? On all fonts, or just those
    with regularly rather short ones?\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  children:
  - author:
      name: charles ellertson
    body: "\"Just how big was it, Johnny?\"\r\n\r\nActually, if you look at some of
      the hot-metal fonts, they were offered with optional long descenders. Traditionally,
      \"short\" descenders were used by newspapers, so they could pack in more copy.
      Linotype wasn't dumb, since more machines were bought by newspaper publishers
      than book printers, the short descenders became standard, and \"long\" descenders
      became an extra-cost option.\r\n\r\nAnd I can't resist, what are usually termed
      \"modern\" figures came about to support advertising, which used a lot of full
      caps. \"Old style\" numbers are better termed \"lower case\" figures, as that
      would indicate their use rather than date of origin. There is always a problem
      with date-of-origin: \"modern\" figures, for example, are just as up-to-date
      as corsets. Not really a \"build\" issue, though . . ."
    created: '2006-11-21 14:29:51'
  created: '2006-11-20 23:09:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">a set of long descenders for type designs where they would be appropriate.\r\n\r\nI
    am coming to the conclusion that this is a matter of optical scaling, with small
    sizes calling for shorter extenders, normal for a bit longer, and headings still
    longer. I think Garamond Premier does this, though I don't have it so I'm not
    sure. \r\n\r\nWith true display sizes, you can go either way, depending on the
    'look' you want. \r\n\r\nDoes this make sense to you from your work on books? "
  created: '2006-11-21 14:43:09'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: '[[Frederic_W_Goudy|Goudy]] felt that the shortening of the decenders on several
    of his faces marred the overal effect of the typefaces. i don''t think it''s an
    optical scaling thing, it''s a matter of what effect you''re shooting for: short
    for space-saving and long for text that breathes a bit more.'
  created: '2006-11-21 15:05:53'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "In the mythical font format I'm designing, there will be a slider that interactively
    dials in the ascender and descender lengths desired. The capability actually exists
    in Knuth's [[Metafont]] system, but it's all but impossible to use in practice.\r\n\r\nBut
    I'm more than a bit intrigued by the kerning suggestion above. I can see how it
    would help a lot in extended article and book setting, but it's not exactly the
    sort of thing that would be obvious to a designer. I wonder if we could start
    a wiki page for \"best practices\" of basic, easy things to do that make the fonts
    that much more usable."
  created: '2006-11-21 17:11:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> can you remember to kern quotedblleft quoteleft\r\n\r\nOr better yet, make
    both double quotes point up, and\r\nboth single quotes (and the apostrophe) point
    down.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/quotes_mine2_6568.gif]\r\n\r\n>
    I am coming to the conclusion that this is a matter of optical\r\n> scaling, with
    small sizes calling for shorter extenders\r\n\r\nI assume it helped that <cite>this
    is in fact a long-established truth.</cite>\r\n\r\nSpecifically concerning the
    shortening of descenders more than the ascenders, it makes sense (up to a point
    of course) for a good reason: relative frequencies. When you give as much room
    to the descenders as the ascenders(see for example Ruse) you're in effect wasting
    apparent size. In fact one indication of a good text font is the \"g\": if it
    doesn't look slightly cramped vertically, there's something wrong. That said,
    aesthetics can of course be allowed to alter the course of efficiency, when it
    makes sense.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-21 17:17:35'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Hrant, thats the ugliest thing I've seen since I got my fingers caught in
    the mangle. A \"close quote\" or an \"apostrophe\" is, historically, a raised
    comma. An \"open quote\" a turned comma. If you're going to redesign them, feel
    free. If I have to use the font, I'll just turn them over & kern them.\r\n\r\nAs
    to the long descenders, you're right about the \"g\" -- it & to some extent the
    \"y\" basically determine how long the descenders can be. I'm rather less convinced
    about the wasting of apparent size; you can't be a book designer these days with
    out specifying type 10/15 or so.\r\n\r\nBill:\r\n\r\nNo, not a matter of optical
    scaling. Frequently footnotes look better with shorter descenders, but ultimately
    I think it depends on the leading. There are book designers today who use the
    text leading with footnotes. In fact, I just finished setting a small book where
    the footnotes were specified 8/14. Conversely, display type usually looks better
    (to my eye) with short descenders. But as always, much depends on the design of
    the letters, and the design of the book."
  created: '2006-11-22 22:02:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So it's ugly because it's ahistorical? And isn't the conventional scheme
    \"ugly\" because it throws a wrench in reading? Formal beauty is for the catwalk.\r\n\r\n>
    you can\u2019t be a book designer these days with out ...\r\n\r\nBut we're talking
    about the type itself, not a possible usage preference. A bad font, or something
    bad about a font, can sometimes be used to good effect (like when people use Bell
    Centennial large). Also, to clarify my position: sometimes waste is exactly what's
    needed.\r\n\r\n> not a matter of optical scaling.\r\n> ... look better ...\r\n\r\nWe're
    -still- not talking about looks.\r\nNews fonts have short extenders not because
    that looks better.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-22 22:47:31'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Hrant I can''t agree with your example less. What''s good about ink traps
    blown up that''s bad at the intended size? '
  created: '2006-11-23 00:34:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK, I was sloppy.\r\n(But your question isn't the tidiest thing on the planet
    either...  :-)\r\n\r\nWhat I meant was that intent is not portable from font to
    usage (except in special cases). So if you make a font with wastefully long descenders
    it doesn't totally preclude good typography with it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-23 00:57:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">No, not a matter of optical scaling. Frequently footnotes look better with
    shorter descenders, but ultimately I think it depends on the leading. There are
    book designers today who use the text leading with footnotes. In fact, I just
    finished setting a small book where the footnotes were specified 8/14.\r\n\r\nYou
    are of course right that shorter extenders are not a requirement. But the practical
    constraint here is that if you have longer descenders at small size then you are
    more or less required to do more leading, and so the publisher has to pay more
    for paper. \r\n\r\nIt seems like whenever economy is a prime consideration (eg
    newspapers), then publications both historically and now generally go for relatively
    small type sizes with large x-heights. That way you still get decent readability
    with economy. \r\n\r\nSo as a designer, if you are going to do optical sizes--which
    I think are a good idea for readability--you have the question of what demands
    to serve. \r\n\r\nI really wonder how much demand there is for 8 point type with
    a small x-height with 14 point leading. I must admit it sounds weird to me. I
    would think that it is going to be more readable with a larger x-height than is
    ideal for an 11 or 12 point font. And then if you want to make the 8 point type
    still more readable you can give it some more space between the lines. \r\n\r\nNow
    you could design with three different extenders, like Trinite, and combine that
    with optical sizes, like Minion. But the question becomes whether you are making
    a huge amount of pointless work for yourself. \r\n\r\nI guess what I am saying
    is that I can see that larger x-height at 8 point is an advantage for many uses,
    and I am having a hard time figuring out when a small x-height at 8 point would
    be an advantage. \r\n\r\nYou tell me: Is there a demand for such a creature? \r\n\r\nOn
    display sizes: I already acknowledged that all bets are off there. It is mainly
    an aesthetic choice, and would depend on the design. For example the much-maligned
    ITC Garamond, with its large x-height, actually works at display sizes. "
  created: '2006-11-23 01:30:04'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"ITC Garamond, with its large x-height, actually works at display sizes.\"\r\n\r\nI
    might even say: Works ONLY at display sizes. It's odd, ITC Garamond is like Mrs.
    Eaves, in that its finish and details are at fatal odds with its proportions.
    Here are two examples of typefaces that don't work quite right at any size; both
    derived from absolute pillars of the typographic establishment."
  created: '2006-11-23 02:02:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">finish and details are at fatal odds with its proportions\r\n\r\nNice insight,
    Carl. "
  created: '2006-11-23 02:26:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Nice insight, Carl.\r\n\r\nIndeed, Aziz!\r\n(I've only been repeating the
    exact same thing for like 7 years.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-23 02:29:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Indeed, Aziz!\r\n\r\nAziz is a fine name, but my mother gave me the name
    William. My friends call me Bill :)\r\n\r\n>(I\u2019ve only been repeating the
    exact same thing for like 7 years.)\r\n\r\nGuess I missed it. \r\n\r\nOh Carl--or
    Hrant--could you expand on your analysis? What features do you think contradict
    the proportions? "
  created: '2006-11-23 02:33:17'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Hrant,\r\nI agree with you about a lot of things (ITC Garamond & Mrs. Eaves,
    for example). Maybe we're having a terminological debate rather than one of substance,
    but I doubt it. I once heard a designer (book interior, not type) say something
    to the effect that it was the designer's job to challange the reader. To which
    I replied, \"NO. It is the author's perogative to challenge the reader. If you
    want to challenge the reader, write a book.\" The parallel is, unless you're an
    advovate of grunge typography, of course looks matter. And an aesthetic is perforce
    cultural; a part of that means it is developed over time, that history counts.
    If a designer (of any sort) wants to be experiemental, feel free, but don't think
    experiementation leads surely to acceptance. It fails far more often than it succeeds.\r\n\r\nBill,\r\n\r\nI'm
    a bit of a dinosaur, I still think in terms of the page, not an element like leading.
    But fashion changes, and paper has dropped in price relative to total (book) printing
    costs. And since (1) chapters usually begin a new page, and (2) book printing
    is purchased in terms of signatures, there really isn't too much cost increase
    for a lot of leading, unless the book has over 1,000,000 characters. What usually
    suffers is the foot margin, due to a publisher's requirement for, say, 2,800 characters
    per page, and a designer's insistance on 14-15 points lead.\r\n\r\nIf anyone wants
    to take a serious look at long descenders, they have only to look at, say, Monotype
    metal Bembo versus Monotype PostScript Bembo. Same with Monotype metal Baskerville
    versus Monotype PostScript Baskerville. And you're right, it is ascenders too.
    I allow that type for book texts isn't a hot item, but one of the plusses of OpenType
    is that it doesn't take that much more effort to address two markets; print where
    packing in the characters is important, and print where the look of the page (really,
    the spread) is still considered important.\r\n\r\nActually, the book I mentioned
    with 8/14 leading was a poor exaple, in that the leading works for this book.
    The book was a rememberance of Richard Eckersley, and the only piece with notes
    was by Richard's son, Sam. There were only a few notes, and they were as important
    as the text. Would that more designers paid attention to just what is in the notes.\r\n\r\nAnd
    please kern the quotes. Changing the class kerning where \"quoteleft\" has another
    member in it's class, namely \"quotedblleft\" is beyond me, since I don't want
    to have a positive kern between two single quotes, & can't figure out how to add
    the exception. I'm a comp, not a computer programmer."
  created: '2006-11-23 03:59:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I still think in terms of the page\r\n\r\nNo doubt you're right as a designer
    and compositor to think in terms of the page--or page spread.\r\n\r\nWhat I am
    thinking about in terms of x-height and descenders is readability and aesthetics,
    first and foremost. I need you and your colleagues to tell me what your needs
    are. \r\n\r\nRecently in one of the (interminable) threads on readablity, Kevin
    Larson quoted some research saying that 11 point type (I assume a relatively normal
    x-height, seriffed book face) is the most readable, and that bigger and smaller
    type people read more slowly. David Berlow cited research that newspaper readers
    prefer between 8 and 11 point. \r\n\r\nBooks and newspapers have different demands,
    and I don't have the knowledge to give numbers on what works best. I just observe
    two things: \r\n\r\n1. Aesthetically, as well as for readability, a variation
    in the same design seems to work better with a bigger x-height at smaller sizes.
    Personally, I think a lot of type today goes too far in chopping the extenders,
    but some reduction is traditional. I know it is for Caslon, and I believe also
    for Garamond, and probably many others.\r\n\r\n2. Reducing descenders only, as
    was the rule in the early 20th century, is aesthetically a problem. The ascenders
    and descenders should have some balance. It seems like it works best with the
    descenders somewhat shorter, but not massively. For example, what the short descenders
    forced on Goudy were pretty bad--at least in some versions I have seen--and P22's
    full extender version is a definite improvement, I think. However, MF Benton designed
    Goudy Catalogue, also with short descenders. But it is intended for small sizes,
    and much heavier, and I think Benton pulled off the design of the short descenders
    pretty well, for the purpose of the type.\r\n\r\nI'll kern the \"'___'\" Message
    received, thanks.  "
  created: '2006-11-23 04:35:19'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Thank you for this thread, its nice to hear from some one who sets type,
    on such specific topics with firsthand details to illuminate.\r\n\r\n<em>unless
    you\u2019re an advocate of grunge typography, of course looks matter</em>\r\n\r\nEven
    then, they matter. The goals are different, the tastes intentionally contrary,
    but looks always matter. I wouldn't compare grunge type to experimental type anymore
    than I would compare Experimental Electronic to Madonna's last electronic-influenced
    album.\r\n\r\n<em>Would that more designers paid attention to just what is in
    the notes.</em>\r\n\r\nNext you'll be wishing that the cover artist ever opened
    the book at all. Or read the title.~\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-11-23 04:55:27'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Please remember that you're talking about the use of quotation marks in English,
    but practically every language uses a different set of quotation marks. In many
    European languages, the opening quotation mark is \u201E and the closing mark
    is \u201D or \u201C. I recommend not to deviate from the commonly-accepted shapes
    of quotation marks too much as they may turn out unusable for languages other
    than English. \r\n\r\nAnd as usual, I recommend thinking of English just happening
    to be one particular language among many that use the Latin script. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-11-23 10:31:30'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Cant the choice of glyph be tuned to the language in use?\r\n\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-11-23 14:15:52'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Choz, \r\n\r\nit can, using the \"locl\" feature. But the default glyph shapes
    should be the ones usable universally, i.e. across all languages, in case that
    an application does not support \"locl\" (none of the currently shipping popular
    applications does, yet). \r\n\r\nA."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "Adam, would you be interested in this? http://typophile.com/node/29673\r\n\r\nYour
      knowledge on how applications support (or not) OpenType could really benefit
      us all.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A
      HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The
      Snark</a>"
    created: '2006-11-25 00:02:08'
  created: '2006-11-24 20:13:40'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "For Mrs. Eaves, it was someone else who pointed out how the serifs are so
    long and thick, and the contrast so low, they look geared to tiny sizes, but the
    x-height is tiny with long extenders, implying display, or at least larger-size
    use. It can't decide what size it's for. With ITC Garamond, the conventions that
    led to it developed in advertising; hand-lettered headlines tended to be based
    on the text type used in small sizes, but adapted for display, with tighter fit,
    more delicate serifs, more contrast. As the decades ticked by and standards dropped,
    all that was left of those conventions was the urge to space everything tightly
    and fuss over serif shapes, so ITC Garamond was essentially a display variant
    of Garamond 3, except that other inescapable trend in the 70s was to make x-heights
    gargantuan, so the result was a typeface with detailing appropriate for about
    120 points and up, with x-height and other proportions suitable for about 5 point.
    And now we get to look at miles of it in 9 point on glossy paper in grey ink.
    Puke. \r\n\r\nThe original topic: Kern uncommon pairs, is a perpetual issue in
    designing type. Thanks for providing some real uses. That topic alone would be
    worth sticking to.... ;)   Anyone have others they always look for? "
  created: '2006-11-25 10:05:05'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"intent is not portable from font to usage\"\r\n\r\nNo kidding. Hence the
    recent term \"font crime\". "
  created: '2006-11-25 10:13:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Carl, interesting analysis. I agree with you about using Mrs. Eaves or ITC
    Garamond at small sizes--that they don't work for the reasons you say. \r\n\r\nBut
    at display sizes they do have a certain eye appeal. I think at display sizes there
    is no rule about extender lengths, and both typefaces both pull off their designs
    with a certain eye-appeal. \r\n\r\nMy problem is that both have a stylishness
    and glamour that turns to distaste after a while. They are like exaggerated styles
    in fashion that look great for two months and then you look back and think: why
    did we ever think that looked good?  \r\n\r\nMaybe, though, both the appeal and
    the distaste is because of the incongruousness of detailing vs proportion that
    you point out. --So they work on one level, but the lack of balance makes them
    wear out their welcome. "
  created: '2006-11-25 14:04:11'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: ">The original topic: Kern uncommon pairs, is a perpetual issue in designing
    type. Thanks for providing some real uses. That topic alone would be worth sticking
    to\u2026. ;) Anyone have others they always look for?>\r\n\r\nI'd be happy to
    discuss more on \"real world kerning,\" but wonder if it shouldn't be a different
    thread, and maybe not in the \"Build\" forum?"
  created: '2006-11-27 16:39:49'
date: '2006-11-20 22:31:04'
title: Some wishes

---
