---
author:
  name: Jaddie
body: "Dear Friends\r\n\r\nI'm looking for a face along the lines of Adobe Garamond,
  Jenson, or Centaur that features an <em>at</em> ligature. Would any of you know
  of such a face?\r\n\r\nSpecifically, I'm trying to do a masterful job in setting
  the name \"Beatrice,\" so I'm very interested in any ideas you may have for setting
  this name. The client is a marriage and family therapist.\r\n\r\nThanks to Christopher
  Lewis from myfonts.com for tuning me into this fontastic resource of typographic
  knowledge and exploration!\r\n\r\n&mdash;Jaddie"
comments:
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "I looked at <a href=http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/dstype/esta/>Esta</a> and
    <a href=http://www.emigre.com/fontpage.php?PMEJLigR.html>Mrs Eaves</a>, two with
    lots of ligatures that I knew off the top of my head, but neither had it. Mrs
    Eaves is known as the \"ligature queen\" and it doesn't have one, so I'm not sure
    if you're going to have much luck. But I hope I'm wrong.\r\n\r\nIf you can't find
    one but are still wedded to the idea of an at ligature, you may need to do it
    yourself in Illustrator or FontLab. You could either take a ct ligature and move
    the join to the at, or take the tail of the a and attach it to the t. Actually,
    looking at the Mrs Eaves ligatures font, you could switch an e for a t in the
    ae ligature, but you'd probably either have to lower the crossbar of the t or
    raise the bowl of the a to make a straight horizontal connection."
  created: '2006-11-24 18:48:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "At first I thought you meant something to do with '@'. Silly. \r\n\r\nNow
    that I get you, here's the thing: ligatures are there to solve typgraphic problems
    and the cobination 'at' isn't one of these classic problems. So I don't think
    you will find a face with that ligature already made. \r\n\r\nYou can make your
    own but unless you do it carefully it will jump out like a sore thumb. \r\n\r\nThis
    'Beatrice', will it be in running text or is it a logo? If it's in running text
    it might be more 'masterful' to loose the ligature. ;-) If it's a logo or something
    else then that might make more sense. \r\n\r\nMaybe you should look at the ligatures
    that made for KPN by Pieter van Rosmalen. They walk the line between decoration/embelishment
    & success in semi-running text. Maybe he would make your ligature for you. Or
    you could ask around here. \r\n\r\nHere is a link http://www.caketype.com/custom_kpn.html\r\n\r\nMaybe
    you should sketch what you have in mind & post an image."
  created: '2006-11-24 19:09:10'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: Though no <em>at</em> is included, <a href=http://www.typography.net/info/fonts/Aspect2L_Sample.pdf>Aspect</a>
    has a delicious range of ligs. Moving far away from your goal of Centaur and Jenson,
    though.
  created: '2006-11-24 19:39:46'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Do you mean something like this :\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/be-at-rice_6705.gif]"
  created: '2006-11-24 20:38:56'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "Now <em> there's</em> an at lig! But my guess is that Jaddie means a lowercase
    at lig, not uppercase. \r\n\r\nAlessandro, is that from a Trajan-esque font, or
    did you just make that? I found an AT lig in <a href=http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/wiescherdesign/imperium/>Imperium</a>,
    but it doesn't look to be the same."
  created: '2006-11-24 21:04:22'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Forget about 'at' ligature in Renaissance, now, and in roman lowercase letters
    (yes, that shows a typeface I designed, not on the market yet). But you can have
    'at' ligature here :\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/beatrice_hand_6329.gif]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Jaddie
    body: "Dear Alessandro\r\n\r\nThat's so very, very cool! Wow!\r\n\r\n&mdash;Jaddie"
    children:
    - author:
        name: Jaddie
      body: "Dear Friends\r\n\r\nThank all of you for commenting and giving me suggestions
        about what I might be able to do.\r\n\r\nEben, it's going to be a logo that
        will appear on the person's business card and perhaps a future Web site.\r\n\r\nHere's
        Throhand Regular. I think I swiped the connector from an <em>st</em> ligature.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/at_ligature_4838.jpg]\r\n\r\nAgain,
        thank you all!\r\n\r\n&mdash;Jaddie"
      created: '2006-11-25 19:38:53'
    created: '2006-11-25 19:23:23'
  created: '2006-11-24 22:58:27'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Alessandro, I see you are a subscriber to the broad definition of a ligature...
    ;-).
  created: '2006-11-24 23:51:10'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Yes !
  created: '2006-11-24 23:58:46'
- author:
    name: tina
    picture: 109693
  body: "LettError's \"Salmiak\" has some and as well Emigre's \"Brothers\", \r\nalthough
    these font styles might be too playful for your intended use? \r\nAlternatively
    you could google for \"catchwords\"."
  created: '2006-11-25 01:22:09'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Do you mean something like this? (I know, it's a hack job.)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Beatrice_3538.jpg]"
  created: '2006-11-25 02:46:52'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: There is no REASON for an a-t lig.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ringo
      picture: 111223
    body: "<cite>There is no REASON for an a-t lig.</cite>\r\n\r\nThen you should
      create one. "
    created: '2006-11-25 16:04:43'
  created: '2006-11-25 05:46:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<CITE>REASON </cite>\r\n\r\nI agree. However I don't think that it CANNOT
    be done well. But it will be hard. Very hard.\r\n\r\nBrian, good for you for giving
    it a shot! Here's my crit. I think the crossbar on the t & the tail below need
    to be exagerated a bit more. You have lost half th 't' so you need to compensate
    for it a little to make sure it reads as immediately as possible. Also there are
    some spacing issues with the other letters but that's probably how the font came.
    Yes?\r\n\r\nI won't promise that you will ever get there. But I don't think it's
    a good idea to say 'never'. "
  created: '2006-11-25 08:01:48'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I agree that there's no <em>reason</em>, and I've personally never used ligatures
    myself other than the 'standard' ones like fi, fl, and the like. In modern use,
    there is no real reason to use ligatures besides that of clashing shapes. I find
    the ct and st ligatures for example way too distracting and too culture-specific.\r\n\r\nBut
    it's fun to look at mediaeval texts using ligatures where adjacent letters share
    stems or bowls as space-savers and to try to decipher them. There's no clash between
    the a and the t, but I tried playing the mediaeval scribe for fun.\r\n\r\nEben,
    thanks for the crit. I actually drew the letters from scratch just to set 'Beatrice';
    they don't come from an existing design. As you probably suspected, I drew the
    a and the t separately and just hacked and sewed them up. I have now modified
    the letters a bit following your suggestion.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Beatrice2_5180.jpg]\r\nI
    think it does read better, although it still demonstrates how foreign the mediaeval
    conjoined-at-the-stem ligature is to the modern eye."
  created: '2006-11-25 08:44:01'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Brian, that's nice, bravo. Eben, I do agree, it\u2019s not a good idea to
    say \u2018never\u2019, sometimes is good to be at rice \u2014\u2014 I guess I've
    been too lazy to ask Jaddie Dodd about the concept of having it."
  created: '2006-11-25 12:08:52'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: 'Only mildly off-topic -- I''ve always wanted to know: Why <em>are</em> there
    ct and st ligs? It''s always seemed to me that adding the loop connecting the
    two letters doesn''t solve any problems, but maybe I''m wrong.'
  created: '2006-11-25 13:21:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> ligatures are there to solve typgraphic problems\r\n\r\nOnly in the short-sighted
    view of type.\r\nThere's no REASON to be chickenshit afraid of ligation.\r\n\r\nEric
    Olson and Thierry Puyfoulhoux make great ligs.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-25 19:14:32'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'any reason not to ligate from the tail of the a? It can just flow right into
    the t. '
  created: '2006-11-25 20:32:41'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">any reason not to ligate from the tail of the a? It can just flow right
    into the t.\r\n\r\nBut then the tail of the t should flow into the r as well!\r\nSo
    maybe this top-side solution is good."
  created: '2006-11-25 20:38:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>Why are there ct and st ligs? </cite> As far as I can tell the long
    s used to need a connection. When the s sharnk to x height it kept it's connection
    in some cases. If you look in an old book with long s' you will see it's quite
    natural. I don't know about the ct ligature.  But before you write it off go look
    at some good ones. You may find yourself changing your mind.\r\n\r\n<cite> any
    reason not to ligate from the tail of the a </cite>\r\n\r\nIndeed. That seems
    more natural. But they alook like Be AT rice to me that way.\r\n\r\nI had a quick
    go at it - but I actually like Allessandro's Caps best.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/junk_3962.gif]\r\n\r\n<cite>
    There\u2019s no REASON to be chickenshit afraid of ligation. </cite>\r\n\r\nExcept
    fear of abject failure. Doing it well is tough. If you have a deadline or some
    other reason that makes it impractical it maybe isn't the best plan. On the other
    hand if you have time to play in - you can't do anything well unless you do it
    alot. So I say ligate to your hearts' content. Upsetting the apple cart ( and
    then fixing it) is a good way of finding out how the apple cart works."
  created: '2006-11-26 01:49:14'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Nice improvements Brian!
  created: '2006-11-26 01:50:18'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: 'That makes a lot of sense about the st lig; I never thought of that before.
    But looking at the ct lig (from Minion Pro, for example), it still doesn''t make
    much sense to me (although it''s not aesthetically unpleasing). For that matter,
    Minion has sp, ss, and ck ligs, too. I know some (like ij, fj, and ch) are for
    languages other than English, but these also strike me as odd. '
  created: '2006-11-26 02:11:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: If you look back in time you may be able to discover the origin of the others
    as well. Also, not all ligatures are created equal. It may be that you need to
    find a good example to get the idea behind a given combination. One possible reason
    for a ss ligature would be to create an alternative way of writing the german
    'double s' glyph.
  created: '2006-11-26 07:58:31'
- author:
    name: Jaddie
  body: "Dear Eben\r\n\r\nI really love your first iteration. \r\n\r\nI think it'd
    be absolutely perfect if the <em>a</em> had just a touch of a stem on it (just
    before the connector begins its ascent to the <em>t</em>.\r\n\r\nAlessandro, how
    much would you charge me for an EPS version of your script <em>Beatrice</em>?
    I don't think it'd work for a marriage therapist, but if my wife and I have a
    daughter, we're considering naming her Beatrice. For the main logo of my (perhaps
    future) daughter's photos (Web) pages, I cannot imagine her name being better
    expressed. That's real art there, fine sir!\r\n\r\nI see a \"dberlow\" online.
    Could that be <em>the</em> David Berlow, the one who designed Throhand?\r\n\r\n&mdash;Jaddie"
  created: '2006-11-26 16:50:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey guys, why not ligate from the top of the bowl of the \"a\"?\r\n\r\nAnd
    yes, it is the Berlow. (Although there's two of them you know.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-26 17:00:20'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Hrant: Show us the bowl ligation! \r\n\r\nJaddie: I agree. But when you do
    3 ideas in 3 minutes... :-) Feel free to muck about in that direction if you want. "
  created: '2006-11-26 21:28:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Something expected on the left, and something\r\nless expected (with an ascending
    \"a\") on the right:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/at-lig_4891.gif]\r\n\r\n(BTW,
    image upload has been acting funny lately...}\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Jaddie
    body: "Dear Hrant & Friends\r\n\r\nWouldn't this design call for a tall x-height?\r\n\r\nIn
      Berlow's Throhand it'd take one heck of a steep connector to get from the top
      of the bowl of the <em>a</em> to the <em>t</em>'s crossbar. (By the way, if
      <em>crossbar</em> isn't the correct term, please enlighten me.)\r\n\r\nI want
      the base font on which this logo is based to have the Victorian discipline and
      prissiness of Adobe Garamond, Jenson, Centaur, or Throhand, none of which features
      a tall x-height.\r\n\r\n&mdash;Jaddie"
    created: '2006-11-26 23:34:19'
  created: '2006-11-26 22:53:36'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Hrant: Bravo! I like this solution because it changes both letters completely
    and unifies them utterly - so the ligature isn''t just a ''pasted'' on compromise.
    That''s the way I would go if it were up to me. '
  created: '2006-11-26 23:01:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, nothing works all of the time.\r\nBut I think more of an x-height issue
    it's a widths and bowl-proportion issue.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-27 00:37:16'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "The problem with your critique is not that you are somehow 'wrong'. I just
    think one of the the assumptions you seem to be making may inhibit the optimal
    success of this kind of ligature: the assumption being that whole parts of the
    letters may be able to stay rigid or intact. in the process. In order to make
    my rough samples look even sorta kinda okay, I had to give the crossbar more weight
    so it could better compete for attention with the arcs, and I had to shorten the
    tail of the t. Better still to put all the elements in play! If you leave the
    bowl on the way to the t at an angle you may be able to straigten it out by the
    end. Or you might find an arc shape works better. \r\n\r\nBut if there is one
    thing I keep bumping into over & over again as I design type it's the reality
    that every part relates and has to be seen in the context of every other part,
    feature or aspect. So it stands to reason that you might have to rethink the whole
    thing. Who knows maybe the over shoot in the top of the a will look good if it's
    made a bit taller to make room for the arc <cite>in the context of the rest of
    it...</cite>"
  created: '2006-11-27 01:09:46'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "That's really interesting, Eben, about how you made those tweaks to the sample
    aside from adding the arc. I didn't notice them before, but now I see them. That's
    something for me to keep in mind should I ever make a typeface of my own.\r\n\r\nOn
    a slightly unrelated note, Jaddie, I've been wondering why the tittle (I've never
    used that word before) of the i is so high. When I looked at the sample of Throhand
    of the Font Bureau site, the reason became clear: it's because the x-height is
    low, and the high tittle balances the i when it is near ascending letters. But
    in this sample, because the only ascending letter is the B, the high tittle seems
    out of place. I'd suggest lowering it to a less evident spot. "
  created: '2006-11-27 02:46:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A more general reason to make the tittle high is\r\nthat it can thereby contribute
    more to readability.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-27 02:55:29'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: But I would think that having it high in a typical typeface would make it
    be less associated with the i it floats above. As I said, in the case of Throhand,
    it is correct to have the high tittle to offset the low x-height, but I find it
    more distracting than helpful in the case of setting "Beatrice."
  created: '2006-11-27 03:02:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Paradoxically, it's when letters become less themselves and more parts of
    larger wholes (that are read faster than the compiling of the individual letters)
    that readability (as opposed to letterwise legibility) is promoted; and looking
    deliberatively at the individual letters does not reveal this necessity.\r\n\r\nFor
    example, I've tried to make the tittle in my Patria <cite>slightly</cite> too
    large. When a person tells me that it's slightly too large (and it's happened
    a few times already) I know (well, at lease I think) I've succeeded.  :->\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-27 03:43:26'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "I'm not knowledgeable enough to discuss readability, but what you said sounds
    right. Concerning Patria's tittle, though, it would seem to me that having someone
    comment on it when it's supposed to be a text face would be undesirable, that
    if the slightly larger tittle were useful in improving word recognition then it
    shouldn't be noticeable. But reading your post again, maybe you meant that it's
    only noticed when someone looks at the letters out of context.\r\n\r\nReturning
    to Jaddie's case, Hrant, wouldn't you agree that in this case, setting \"Beatrice,\"
    the tittle should be lowered? Visually, to me, it jumps out as distracting."
  created: '2006-11-27 03:58:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> having someone comment on it when it\u2019s\r\n> supposed to be a text
    face would be undesirable\r\n\r\nYou're right - I was unclear: only other type
    designers are expected\r\nto comment (and only they have actually commented).
    If a layman\r\ncomments on it, then the tittle must be huge.\r\n\r\nYes, I think
    in this case (mostly because it's a single word, and in essence\r\nno longer glyphs
    of a font) the tittle should be lower, and also larger.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-27 04:12:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thinking about this more deeply:\r\nI don't know if anybody has brought this
    up, but the important question is why have an \"at\" ligature? A question not
    based on a general dislike of ligatures, but one based on a like of focused purpose.\r\n\r\nI
    presume it's because of some sort of separation/joining between the two parts
    of the name, both in terms of syllabification as well as the fact that \"Bea\"
    is the common short form. So maybe a ligation is not the only way to mark this;
    maybe a flourished \"a\" would be better - something like this:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/a_6255.gif]\r\n\r\nSort
    of like a subtle, engrained hyphen.\r\nBTW, in such a scheme I might abridge the
    left part of the crossbar of the \"t\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-27 04:32:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Maybe. I have to admit to being more skeptical about this one. But then the
    devil is in the details.
  created: '2006-11-27 09:15:27'
- author:
    name: fallenartist
    picture: 111868
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Beatrice_4494.gif]\r\n\r\nmaybe?\r\n\r\n_______\r\nAL\r\n<a
    href=http://www.lenart.pl>lenart.pl</a>"
  created: '2006-11-28 09:10:03'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'NICE. this would be fabulous in a logo, but no good for immersive reading
    for the same reason: it really draws attention! For Jaddie''s purpose it might
    be nearly perfect.'
  created: '2006-11-28 21:16:10'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: That's a really great idea, Aleksander. I'm wondering if it is best to leave
    the part of the a created by the t's swash as similar to the actual a's stroke,
    or if it might be preferable to make the swash more "swash-like." A concern would
    be hurting the legibility of the word, but maybe that's not a big deal since so
    much of the a remains unaltered by the edit.
  created: '2006-11-28 21:58:02'
- author:
    name: Jaddie
  body: "Dear Eben, hrant, auricfuzz, & aleksander\r\n\r\nThank you very much for
    your help! I'll experiment a bit more and do my best to incorporate your thoughts
    and ideas into a semi-final design. Beatrice herself might have some sort of idea
    that I haven't thought of.\r\n\r\naleksander, I really like your two suggestions
    and prefer the second because it seems to have a little bit more flow and looks
    a little more feminine.\r\n\r\nThanks, all! I can't believe I got into such a
    high-brow discussion with my first post in this forum.\r\n\r\nThanks again!\r\n\r\n&mdash;Jaddie"
  created: '2006-11-30 02:14:36'
date: '2006-11-23 14:41:52'
node_type: forum
title: Need "at" Ligature

---
