---
author:
  name: missgiggles
  picture: 111889
body: 'i mean in the way that we have a huge responsibily for all our actions may
  iit be ethical, political etc. designers in advertising etc influence people and
  have great impact on them? have you recently heard about the packaging dilemma and
  the fact that designers should be responsiblle in creating packaging from materials
  that can be recycled or are environment friendly because of all thye global warming
  and pollution and gree house gases we produce everyday but mind you, war and bombs
  tend to cause the most pollution and have the worst effects on green house gases.
  what are the government talking about? what else should a designer keep in mind
  in regards to helping the world and society in ethical, political, economical forms? '
comments:
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "\"A series of different representations, using ultrasound scans and computer
    graphics, have been created for a documentary called Animals in the Womb that
    will be screened in the UK on Channel 4 over Christmas.\"\r\n(Channel 4/PA)\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/shared/spl/hi/pop_ups/06/sci_nat_animals_in_the_womb/html/1.stm"
  created: '2006-11-25 14:22:17'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: We have a HUGE roll to play in capitalism! I've never heard the 'war and bombs'
    slant.
  created: '2006-11-25 15:41:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The only people who play a big role in politics are politicians and\r\nthe
    people who pay them. The rest of us are pretty much peons.\r\n\r\nPlease read
    my mail in Emigre issue... I forget what number.  :-/\r\n\r\n> I\u2019ve never
    heard the \u2018war and bombs\u2019 slant.\r\n\r\nYeah, but you probably haven't
    heard about this either:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/programmes/newsnight/6169006.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-25 18:43:07'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: Deleted
  created: '2006-11-25 19:26:03'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Come on guys...\r\n\r\nSeriously, I believe that designers, and AD REPS damn
    them! need to be more congizant of their actions. It comes as a part of being
    a human being. It takes half a second to spec more environmentally friendly papers,
    inks, etc.\r\n\r\nThe main drawback is quality and cost. But if you can beat it
    into the Money's head that saying \"environmentally friendly\" on the packaging
    helps improve their product's image, you might just get your point across.\r\n\r\nAs
    to the war aspect, consider this: The US government washes their tanks with GASOLINE.
    'Nuff said."
  created: '2006-11-25 21:16:04'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Re: Original question.\r\n\r\nNo.\r\n\r\nIf you want to be a concerned citizen,
    become a politician, and then please stay as far away as you can from me."
  created: '2006-11-26 05:03:59'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Designers <em>can</em> play a huge role in society; most don't. Those designing
    for products that have a massive impact on the lives of people around the world,
    or those who get into the world of politics\u2014which they often don't now, as
    the 24-hour news cycle has wiped out the time needed to work good design into
    politics\u2014have to be careful about the ethical lines they might be crossing;
    I believe that most designers are doing quite well when it comes to ethical decision
    making. I think that this is in large part due to the glaring examples of what
    happens when designers go bad that we have left over from the twentieth century:
    all the great designers who worked tirelessly designing propaganda for the Nazi
    and Communist parties which then committed unconscionable acts against humanity
    that overshadow all other great evils of history. \r\n\r\nSo as designers have
    to be vigilant, and be sure that none of us is designing the next <em>Mein Kampf</em>
    or <em>Little Red Book</em>. Designers need to be well aware of the world around
    them; the last thing western civilization needs is a new crop of great propagandists
    working for groups like ANSWER/The World Workers Party, Hamas, the Muslim Brotherhood,
    etc. We must also learn from the mistakes of the past, from artists like Paul
    Renner and El Lizzitsky whose work on behalf of communism helped condemn hundreds
    of millions of people to tyranny and  suffering, or worst of all, Leni Reifenstahl,
    whose Nazi propaganda work made her the the most influential filmmaker in history,
    in respect both to cinematic techniques and the millions her work condemned to
    gas chambers. By studying the ideologies of tyranny\u2014fascism, communism, socialism,
    jihad, etc.\u2014we can learn to recognize them and their methods, and ensure
    that we do not lend our efforts to their causes. "
  created: '2006-11-26 06:24:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> ... the last thing western civilization needs is a new crop of\r\n> great
    propagandists working for groups like ANSWER/The World\r\n> Workers Party, Hamas,
    the Muslim Brotherhood, etc. ...\r\n\r\nI don't know where to start explaining
    how misguided,\r\nmisleading and just plain vile your viewpoint is. Sick.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-26 06:29:55'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I'm not exactly sure how it's sick to not want creative people aiding in more
    of Mao and Stalin's mass murders, Hitler's genocides, or Islamist terrorism in
    the world... but to avoid starting a flame war, I won't ask, either.
  created: '2006-11-26 06:43:26'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Interesting this year: Haj, Christmas and Hanukkah all happen so close together.\r\nWouldn't
    it be great if they could all be incorporated in some way into a combined festival?\r\nIt
    might lead to a degree of understanding which is sorely lacking at the moment.\r\nThanking
    All for Exchanging <a href=\"http://www.crAUSwords.com/flowers/WFlowers.htm\">Flowers</a>,
    not flaming more wars.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-26 07:38:24'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Being high minded about advertising is hypocrisy.\r\n\r\nEverything is propaganda,
    including this post.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-11-26 13:29:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Being high minded about advertising is hypocrisy.\r\n\r\n>Everything is
    propaganda, including this post.\r\n\r\nThese read like excuses for working for
    anybody, no matter how harmful they or their products are to others. \r\n\r\nI
    think that's probably not what you want do say. Can you clarify what you mean?
    \r\n"
  created: '2006-11-26 13:48:52'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "The Taoists state that making people want things they don't need is harmful.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-11-26 14:55:09'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: "Last week there was an interesting forum about this topic in London:\r\neye
    magazine organised a panel discussion called \u2018Burning Issues\u2019.\r\nhttp://eyeburningissues1.typepad.com/forum/\r\n\r\nOne
    of the four participants in this panel, the designer Lucienne Roberts, said that
    of course she is thinking very carefully for which clients she is working for
    (and for which ones she certainly doesn\u2019t), but she didn\u2019t forget to
    add that she was in the fortunate position to choose.\r\n\r\nI think, this is
    a very important point she made \u2013 a lot of designers, especially if they
    are just out of college simply do not have the choice. They are lucky if they
    can get any work at all. But that doesn\u2019t mean that it has to stay like this
    throughout one\u2019s carrier. The more experience we gain, the more this enables
    us to make choices \u2013 some people choose to go with the stream, some don\u2019t.
    It is a certain luxury to be able to make choices, and this doesn\u2019t develop
    by chance \u2013 it is the result of a deliberate effort. Responsibility grows
    with the freedom of choice. \r\n\r\nDesign is taking place not in a vacuum or
    in an ivory tower, but in a certain social and economic environment, largely determined
    by politics. \r\n\r\nWhereas it would be very na\xEFve to think that design can
    \u2018change things\u2019 and it is quite safe to say that the notion of the designer
    as some sort of self-declared saviour is undoubtedly the result of delusion nourished
    by vanity, it is also quite irresponsible if we designers prefer to think not
    about what the effects of our daily work are.\r\n\r\nThe designer has a responsibility
    \u2013 a professional one to one\u2019s client (to deliver excellent, good or
    at least decent work in time and on the previously agreed terms) as well as an
    ethical one (do we think that the result of what we are doing is helping to promote
    ideas that we think are worth to be promoted or at least do not cause harm?) \u2013
    in the same way as any other profession has. It is up to anyone of us to make
    decisions how we want to deal with this responsibility and how far we want to
    take this responsibility serious or not.\r\n\r\nThe best way to increase the effect
    of what we are doing is to work on our qualification, the best way to increase
    our judgement on ethical questions is trying to be informed about the political
    and economic framework in which we are working (which is easier said than done,
    especially if we live in states that are quite actively engaged in conflicts).\r\n\r\nBTW:\r\nPaul
    Renner was never a communist, he never promoted revolutionary ideals (and therefore
    was harshly denounced by Tschichold \u2013 behind his back, which was probably
    not very fair by Tschichold, since it was Renner who invited Tschichold to teach
    at the Meisterschule in Munich). In fact, he was a conservative liberal who just
    cared about social issues."
  created: '2006-11-26 14:57:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Whereas it would be very na\xEFve to think that design can \u2018change\r\n>
    things\u2019 and it is quite safe to say that the notion of the designer\r\n>
    as some sort of self-declared saviour is undoubtedly the result of\r\n> delusion
    nourished by vanity, it is also quite irresponsible if we\r\n> designers prefer
    to think not about what the effects of our daily\r\n> work are.\r\n\r\nSuperbly
    expressed.\r\nAnd this really applies to everybody, not just designers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-26 15:08:11'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: but hey wait guys, what about NIKE? they use slave labour in 3rd world countries
    and what about that? should designers support them? NO! why? becuase they arent
    humane enough for using poor little children for thier work and paying them hardly
    anything for thier efforts and making millions out of it. now is that humane?
    NO it isnt! they're off thier heads. why would anyone want to advertise thier
    products if MONEY is all  they think about. what about issues surrounding it all?
    would you advertise for them? i certainly wouldnt!
  created: '2006-11-26 15:26:59'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Agreed Wolfgang. But I think I make a much bigger difference in my interpersonal
    relationships - which are my interface with society.\r\n\r\nMy career is by nature
    - flawed - since I would not be doing it given a choice.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-11-26 16:10:59'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "I believe there's a position open at the CIA for a graphic designer:\r\nhttps://www.cia.gov/careers/jobs/graphic_designer.html"
  created: '2006-11-26 19:06:22'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "interesting discussion again.\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul
    Ducco</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.solid-creative.com/print.htm\">Design,
    Melbourne</a>\r\n----------\r\n<a href=\"http://www.littlemischief.com\">Little
    Mischief</a>"
  created: '2006-11-26 20:12:26'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>but hey wait guys, what about NIKE? they use slave labour in 3rd world
    countries and what about that?</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's essentially the point of many
    previous posts: if a designer feels that a potential client's behavior is unethical,
    he or she should not take on the job. And when it comes to companies like Nike
    there are a lot of designers out there who don't take the work. There are design
    firms out there that do nothing but non-profit work for this reason.\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    think, this is a very important point she made \u2013 a lot of designers, especially
    if they are just out of college simply do not have the choice.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    sounds more like an excuse than a well-reasoned maxim. In free nations, if a designer
    runs into ethical complications, he has the option to just not do the work. That
    might mean not working in a great design job, or even not getting paid to work
    in design, but a designer still has the option of not doing work he finds reprehensible.\r\n\r\n<cite>Paul
    Renner was never a communist...</cite>\r\nIn retrospect I should never have mentioned
    Renner. What I know of him is what's popped up in passing in survey texts, in
    which I have seen him painted as a socialist, communist, and other things.\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    believe there\u2019s a position open at the CIA for a graphic designer...</cite>\r\n\r\nI've
    talked to people who had those jobs. The work is mostly internal document layout,
    although if you're really lucky, you get a job \u201Cdesigning\u201D fake IDs."
  created: '2006-11-26 20:27:56'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Miss Giggles (it'll be nice to know your real name one day) I strongly recommend
    a book called \"The Green Imperative\" by Victor Papanek. To start with.\r\nIt
    might answer some of your questions. Enjoy.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.co-design.co.uk/victor.htm\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-26 20:30:48'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Prawns, let us fry!\r\nWhy was I born and will die?\r\nHow should I dive
    and fly?\r\n\r\nWinner if I know how and why?!\r\nLoser If do not know how and
    why?!\r\nExploited if I know how but not why?!\r\n\r\nWait! why I was given ear
    and eye?\r\nGuided to the how only if I know why\r\nTo make a hole in the dry\r\nOr
    a ladder in the sky?!"
  created: '2006-11-26 21:12:16'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: "Renner was an interesting figure. One generation older than the modernists,
    he started as a traditionalist, but later he incorporated some of the views of
    the modernists into his work without sharing their political ideas. Nevertheless,
    the fact that he defended the ideas of the modernists against attacks from the
    Nazis made him loose his job as head of the Meisterschule in Munich. \r\n\r\nChristopher
    Burke: Paul Renner. The Art of Typography, published by Hyphen Press, is the best
    account of his life and work available in English."
  created: '2006-11-26 21:21:55'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Here's some interesting environmentally friendly advertising:\r\nThese guys
    in Vancouver have been cycling for over 4 days. The ad not only promotes the LED
    lights, but it also promotes the cycling team that is taking part. Everyone at
    the site is having fun, the campaign doesn't harm the environment, and everyone
    benefits.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMGP9484_6367.jpg]\r\nBut as
    to promoting hatred of any form, reasonable people aren't going to promote Nazism.
    People whose sense of reason is based on the almighty dollar might. \r\n\r\nSo
    the arguement boils down to \"what can we do individually, ethically and conscienciously?\""
  created: '2006-11-26 21:50:58'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: 'Dan, this is brilliant. It had to come from Vancouver. '
  created: '2006-11-26 21:53:54'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Thank you Wolfgang Homola, I enjoyed your writing.\r\n\r\nBecause of the
    circumstances in which they encounter it, children tend to misunderstand wealth.
    They confuse it with money. They think that there is a fixed amount of it. And
    they think of it as something that's distributed by authorities (and so should
    be distributed equally), rather than something that has to be created (and might
    be created unequally).\r\n\r\nThe difference between design and research seems
    to be a question of new versus good. Design doesn't have to be new, but it has
    to be good. Research doesn't have to be good, but it has to be new. I think these
    two paths converge at the top : the best design surpasses its predecessors by
    using new ideas, and the best research solves problems that are not only new,
    but actually worth solving. So ultimately we're aiming for the same destination,
    just approaching it from different directions.\r\n\r\nDesign begins by asking,
    who is this for and what do they need from it ?\r\nA good architect, for example,
    does not begin by creating a design that he then imposes on the users, but by
    studying the intended users and figuring out what they need, not \"what they want.\"
    This may vary from field to field in the arts, but I don't think there is any
    field in which the best work is done by the people who just make exactly what
    the customers tell them to.\r\n\r\nIt's hard to design something for an unsophisticated
    user. It's hard to stay interested in something you don't like yourself. To make
    something good, you have to be thinking, \"wow, this is really great,\" not \"what
    a piece of sh** ; those fools will love it.\"\r\nDesign means making things for
    humans. But it's not just the user who's human. The designer is human too."
  created: '2006-11-26 23:42:50'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<em>But as to promoting hatred of any form, reasonable people aren\u2019t
    going to promote Nazism.</em>\r\n\r\nMaybe not now, but in the 1920s and 1930s
    a lot of reasonable people jumped on to the Nazi bandwagon. That's why designers
    must be aware of  happenings past and present at local, national, and international
    levels. We must be able to spot the evil in the world, and at a minimum, not become
    a part of it.\r\n\r\nPersonally I think that all accredited design education entities
    should be required to include instruction in ethical philosophy to ensure that
    students develop the mental faculties required make solid ethical decisions. Many
    business degrees now do so, and I feel that it's just as important for design
    professionals to understand ethics as it is for middle management to."
  created: '2006-11-27 02:09:48'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Bad graphic design is to blame for most of the world's problems over the last
    6 years - anybody remember the butterfly ballot? 3000 Jews in Palm Beach who voted
    (NOT) for Pat Buchanan...
  created: '2006-11-27 03:01:04'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Hats off to Wolfgang and Alessandro for raising the level of this post! Thankyou
    gentlemen.\r\n\r\nAs for MissG's original question \u2013 \"what else should a
    designer keep in mind...\", I'd say that the chief requirement is to keep that
    mind <em>open</em>.\r\n\r\nI worked for a couple of non-profits when I was a student;
    in hindsight it was an absolute luxury, and one that I could afford at the time.
    Lots of people simply don't have the choice. These days I occasionally use Papanek's
    blistering condemnation of the design and advertising industries (Design for The
    Real World, Paladin, 1972) as the raw text for typesetting exercises.\r\n\r\nSome
    long-held convictions of mine about design and ethical conduct got recently overturned
    by reading both the article and ensuing comments on Michael Bierut's designobserver
    blog about how five American 'star' designers boycotted a national design awards
    function at the White House in July of this year. It's at\r\n\r\nhttp://www.designobserver.com/archives/015742.html\r\n\r\nand
    perhaps more importantly, James Victore's panelled discussion between Crye Associates
    and The 62, published by the AIGA, entitled <a h/ref=\"http://www.amazon.com/Fresh-Dialogue-Friendly-Voices-Graphic/dp/1568985827/sr=1-1/qid=1164600615/ref=pd_bbs_sr_1/104-0486363-1791103?ie=UTF8&s=books\">Fresh
    Dialogue 6: Friendly Fire</a> was a bold move to highlight some of these issues.
    It gave me the chance to reconsider what professionalism might really constitute
    in this context.\r\n\r\nIf this kind of stuff genuinely interests you, MissG,
    keep reading and keep questioning (yourself as much as anyone else).\r\n\r\nJames
    Puckett, you know I've told you before \u2013 on other threads here at typophile
    \u2013 to read the literature on Paul Renner before you go blackballing him as
    either a Nazi or a Communist. He wasn't either of those things. That other people
    on this thread are <em>still</em> telling you to read Christopher Burke's book
    shouldn't suprise me, but it does disapoint me. Likewise to shrug off your bias
    as originating in uncited texts that 'popped up in passing' does you no favours
    either. Doubtless you think you're 'reasonable people' too; after all you're on
    talking terms with CIA employees."
  children:
  - author:
      name: blank
    body: "<cite>you know I\u2019ve told you before \u2013 on other threads here at
      typophile \u2013 to read the literature on Paul Renner before you go blackballing
      him as either a Nazi or a Communist...</cite>\r\n\r\nHonestly, I believed Paul
      Renner was a communist (specifically a Bolshevist) because I actually spent
      some time reading about him last year after I had earlier read some poorly translated
      texts that tied the design of Futura to the Nazis. I'm not attempting to shrug
      off my mistake, it's just that I've read so many design texts that mention Renner
      that I can't keep track of them; his name pops up more often than Tschischold's
      in design books, and at this point I realize I'm quite confused about the man.
      Regardless, I'm happy to be proven wrong, so I've ordered the book and when
      it arrives I'll read it and get back to you."
    created: '2006-11-27 06:06:37'
  created: '2006-11-27 04:36:26'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Thanks for sharing that info about the National Design Awards. I couldn't
    have attended an awards ceremony at the White House either (not that I was invited
    lol) and that makes me respect those designers and their ethics.\r\n\r\nPart of
    Buddhism's eight-fold path is \"right livelihood\". I could beat myself up for
    not being a doctor or teaching inner city youth or volunteering to rebuild villages
    destroyed in awar. We can't fool ourselves that design makes that kind of difference
    in the world. One reason I've chosen to work in book publishing rather than, say,
    advertising or branding is that I find it easier to live with myself - I think
    the world needs more books.\r\n\r\nTo quote Jimmy Ernst: \r\nArtists and poets
    are the raw nerve ends of humanity.\r\nBy themselves they can do little to save
    humanity.\r\nWithout them there would be little worth saving."
  created: '2006-11-27 05:31:28'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>One reason I\u2019ve chosen to work in book publishing rather than,
    say, advertising or branding is that I find it easier to live with myself - I
    think the world needs more books.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think that the world has too
    many books. At least, too many worthless piles of trash that pass themselves off
    as books. It's a shame that so many people can't tell the difference between something
    worthwile to read and something that atrophies their minds. \r\n\r\nOur real ethical
    challenge as Designers for Humanity\u2122 is that there is so much STUFF bombarding
    people's eyes that it is hard to tell what is truly beautiful anymore. People
    hardly have any frames of reference to make sound judgements. Things are so muddy
    that there isn't a Yin or a Yang. There is only Gray chaos with a few bright spots
    here and there.\r\n\r\nThe least we can do is try to be those bright spots by
    being dedicated to the traditions of our craft and continuously trying to make
    it even more useful and beautiful."
  created: '2006-11-27 06:49:22'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>At least, too many worthless piles of trash that pass themselves off
    as books.</cite>\r\n\r\nHey, some of us need a rest from the serious stuff now
    and then, and even pulp is better for the mind than most television! I had to
    read a pile of crap from BL publishing to recover after I finished <em>House of
    Leaves.</em> \r\n\r\n<cite>there is so much STUFF bombarding people\u2019s eyes
    that it is hard to tell what is truly beautiful anymore. People hardly have any
    frames of reference to make sound judgements.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't think so.
    I just spent a few days playing with my toddler niece and driving around in the
    desert, which is always a reminder that if smiling kids and rugged landscapes
    aren't great frames of reference, nothing is. When art or design contains barely
    a tiny shade of the beauty we can find in the undesigned world, the ugliness stands
    out just as much as it ever has, and we eventually learn to see through it all
    and appreciate the good stuff even more."
  created: '2006-11-27 07:16:12'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "So far, all are thinking within one or more systems!\r\nIt is the Systems
    that have to be changed, not changing items!\r\nNeed a system changed? Email the
    Designer of our systems?\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-27 07:47:44'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Missgiggles\r\n\r\nStarting from your post and ignoring all the rest (though
    I like Paul Cutler's remarks), graphic designers do whatever they are paid to
    do. There is no ethics involved in this. If there were, some of them might starve.
    Never heard of that happening. Mainly, some of them just quit. Those are the good
    folk. But nobody knows who they were.\r\n\r\nGerald "
  created: '2006-11-27 08:07:12'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>even pulp is better for the mind than most television!</cite>\r\nHere
    Here! I certainly agree. It's just so easy to get angry at the ignorant/lazy design
    flooding the senses perpetually.\r\n\r\n<cite>There is no ethics involved in this</cite>\r\nWhat
    kind of a thing is that to say? There is ethics in every single action we make.
    Yes, we are paid as visual communicators, and yes, we mostly turn a blind eye
    on the banal. But when it comes to being socially and humanely responsible <cite>as
    it purtains to our limited scope of design</cite>, then we must do whatever is
    ethically correct, regardless of the compensation."
  created: '2006-11-27 08:25:45'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Ben Archer, thank you.\r\nAziz, what ?\r\n\r\n\u2026 this vision is also
    described by Dante in the <em>Divina Commedia</em>. Resonantor sympathetic nets
    formed interconnections through the whole system so that no event occurred alone.
    In this cosmos significant coincidences were naturals.\r\n\r\nJust pay attention,
    the intellect has little to do with the road to discovery, so innovation does
    not require starting from scratch. This is good, because you can\u2019t start
    from scratch : the universe has been here for a while.\r\n\r\nIn fact, successful
    innovation often happens simply because a curious person paid careful attention
    to how something in the world works. And once they really understood how people
    use that thing, they could see what was both good and bad about its value to those
    people.  With that understanding, a creator can apply their imagination towards
    new ideas that eliminate the bad and expand on, or leap-frog, the good. Technical
    brilliance may be the only way to realize that imagination, but it\u2019s the
    ability to generate or recognize those meaningful ideas that drives the best kinds
    of innovation.\r\n\r\nGerald Lange, it\u2019s a pity you ignored the rest of the
    posts here, since you might have some good hints related to the hands-on nature
    of the creative typographic job for the book arts, I prefer to think you didn\u2019t
    have got the time.\r\n\r\nIndeed time is fleeting, for the ambiguous, time is
    ambiguous ; for the hero the time is heroic ; for the whore, the time is just
    another game. If you are gentle, your time is gentle ; if you are in a hurry,
    time blows away ; time is a servant if you are his chief ; time is your god, if
    you are his dog. We are the creators of the time, the dupes of the time and the
    murderers of the time. Time is without time."
  created: '2006-11-27 12:00:21'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Which one what?\r\nYour last posting is far away from what I mean in my 2
    earlier postings."
  created: '2006-11-27 12:15:55'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Aziz, for example I didn't understand the "systems" issue.
  created: '2006-11-27 12:48:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Time is god.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-27 15:43:11'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Alessandro Segalini,  Systems mentioned in the earlier posting are respectively:\r\n1
    political 2. engineering (example for 1) 3. our ins+outs\r\nElaborating:\r\nTill
    when we allow Kapi+ Soci play their demo game. \r\nFlipping and Rotating us with
    parties shame.\r\nNeither has solutions 4 problems as they claim.\r\nWhere, when,
    how and by who they came?\r\nWho gave them the  right to speak in my name?\r\nHow
    do they know Man's ins+outs and aim.\r\nSo be not a tool in either hands, they
    are same.\r\nA role we have to play or people will blame."
  created: '2006-11-27 18:53:38'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Okay, okay... While topics like this bring up very good points, they can
    also border on being a bit too self-important.\r\n\r\nDo designers play a huge
    role in society? Sure. Let's back up a minute, because, so do custodial workers.
    Take a stroll through the streets of New York City on any given trash collection
    day to see just how big the role of custodial workers are on society as a whole.\r\n\r\n<em>That
    might mean not working in a great design job, or even not getting paid to work
    in design, but a designer still has the option of not doing work he finds reprehensible.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    comment can be made ONLY by a person who is not living in poverty. Too many people
    often forget that living in the United States, or even being a student affords
    you luxuries that other people around the world don't have the luxury of. Like
    eating daily for example.\r\n\r\nAs a side note, on the Nike issue. Let me paint
    for you two pictures that I think are very similar, though they don't appear to
    be on the outside. Taking on Nike as a client is a lifestyle choice. Much like
    people in ghettos who choose to sell drugs. While one obviously appears to be
    more reprehensible on the surface, everyone has their own state of normal. Both
    households have mouths to feed. Both have a desire to attain material possessions.\r\n\r\nDifferent
    people from different financial brackets are presented with different options
    in life. So, before we all start pointing fingers about what is right and wrong\u2014
    realize that many of us have a CHOICE in sitting down to eat our vegan meals.
    Most of us in this thread don't have to sell illegal drugs to feed our families.
    I challenge anyone here to spend two weeks in Afghanistan without a dollar in
    your pocket. Let's see what you do then."
  created: '2006-11-27 19:43:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Terry, right on.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-27 20:34:24'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: 'What a coincidence, I just received this, check out : http://www.worldonfire.ca/'
  created: '2006-11-27 21:03:59'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Miss Giggles, No. As <em>human beings</em> we have a huge role to play in
    society. As designers, very few of us will possess an immense enough cultural
    impact to affect the world as designer. The beautiful advertising for the most
    vile corporations and causes shows that there is no shortage of capable designers
    willing to do dirty work. \r\n\r\nSome people are more bothered by working for
    and promoting Nikesque businesses than others are. Those of us most bothered will
    always try to find a way out. Unfortunately, its simply not easy. Even those who
    hold the most liberal beliefs in America are usually walking hypocritical nexuses,
    as they benefit from what they claim to despise, even indirectly. Want to free
    Tibet? Boycott China; good luck. Want organic foods? How do you think it arrived
    fresh at the Wal-mart that is bankrupting your home town?\r\n\r\nI am looking
    for the right charity to donate a portion of !Exclamachine sales to. To me, this
    is essential to the process of moving from just free toys to trying to make income
    from it. Interestingly, every person I've mentioned this to thinks it is a bad
    idea. I can't imagine it any other way. This is part of getting to be my own boss,
    no? It wont make a huge difference in big picture, but it will do something, I
    hope.\r\n\r\nThese sort of struggles have nothing to do with being a designer,
    but with being alive.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The
    Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-11-27 22:12:18'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>This comment can be made ONLY by a person who is not living in poverty.
    Too many people often forget that living in the United States, or even being a
    student affords you luxuries that other people around the world don\u2019t have
    the luxury of. Like eating daily for example.</cite>\r\n\r\nOn the contrary, I
    know exactly how privileged Americans are. And I appreciate that I'm lucky enough
    to be among the tiny minority of people who live in free nations and have the
    option of living by principles should we choose to do so. That's why I consider
    ethical behavior to be of great importance to those of us who have the option.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-28 01:42:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Except for some reason your freedom (which in effect is mostly a carefully\r\ncrafted
    illusion) seems to result in extremely unethical aggregate behavior...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-28 03:20:21'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "The freedom need only be enough that you don't know what to do with it, It
    is not about illusion, but that nobody wants absolute freedom for everyone, no
    matter who they quote, or what they claim.\r\n\r\nThe extremely unethical behavior
    I imagine you are referring to is likely that typical of any empowered group.
    Or, in my suspicions, any potentially empowered group. People corrupt, power illuminates.\r\n\r\n\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-11-28 04:20:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "People are peons, and the ones who don't know that are the most dangerous.
    It's not that some groups are Good and some are Evil, it's that some are more
    aware and others are more deluded. When somebody is sitting at the epicenter of
    world misery and thinks he's actually doing the world a favor, then that's a problem.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-28 04:28:16'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "><em>Whereas it would be very na\xEFve to think that design can \u2018change
    things\u2019 and it is quite safe to say that the notion of the designer as some
    sort of self-declared saviour is undoubtedly the result of delusion nourished
    by vanity, it is also quite irresponsible if we designers prefer to think not
    about what the effects of our daily work are.</em><\r\n\r\nWith all due respect,
    you couldn't be more wrong if you tried.  \r\n\r\nMissgiggles, when you use the
    word - designer - does that include the architect?\r\n\r\n__________\r\nHiro\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-28 04:39:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's not what you make, but why you make it that makes you to varying\r\ndegrees
    a designer, or an artist. Buildings, fonts, shoes is not the point.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-28 04:51:23'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "If you think small, there's a chance you won't become a jailer.\r\n\r\nIf
    you think big you will build the cells with glee\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-11-28 04:56:12'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: Deleted
  created: '2006-11-28 05:40:31'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Aziz - with all due respect - what planet are you on? I really have trouble
    making any sense out of your posts... Comments like the above just add to the
    amount of web page we have to scroll through - pushing the thread onto more than
    one page - without making (imho) any substantive contribution to the dialogue.
    Yes, flowers, we get it already.\r\n\r\nI should add - if I sound grumpy it's
    in part because this site has been so buggy lately."
  created: '2006-11-28 16:02:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Tellingly, he's from the same planet.\r\nArab poets have a long history of
    being radically lyrical.  :-)\r\n\r\nBut the animated butterfly - now <cite>that's</cite>
    annoying.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-28 16:22:55'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: Earlier Posting and Butterfly removed to make Friends happy.
  created: '2006-11-28 18:41:44'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "How many other professions do you know of that have frequent conversations
    trying to convince themselves that they are important? I think it stems from the
    fact that most designers think that they should be important because their stuff
    can be seen everywhere. But deep down they know that they aren't really important
    at all, because it's xyz corp that is talking, not them.\r\n\r\nIf you want to
    say something profound, don't be a door to door salesman, be a preacher, teacher
    or philosopher. But you'll have to find your own audience, not the one that xyz
    corp buys for you."
  created: '2006-11-28 19:46:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And a \"Right on!\" to you as well, Christian.\r\n(I love this place - it
    really enjoys an exceptional degree of lucid candor.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-28 19:57:09'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I don't know about teacher part of this - my fianc\xE9e is a lecturer at
    USC and from what she tells me - it doesn't get much more corporate than that
    - they're the largest private employer in Los Angeles.\r\n\r\nGranted teachers
    can play important roles in peoples lives but they also aren't free - most of
    them work for the state for instance.\r\n\r\nIt reminds me of when John Cage called
    Karlheinz Stockhausen a puppet of the state for taking West German money to finance
    his compositions\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-11-28 21:48:14'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>I think it stems from the fact that most designers think that they
    should be important because their stuff can be seen everywhere. But deep down
    they know that they aren\u2019t really important at all</cite>\r\n\r\nThat cuts,
    doesn't it? XYZ Corporation would rather use Billy from Accounting, who once used
    Photoshop, if they thought they could get away with it. Not one of us isn't replaceable,
    and that's the hard part about trying to be ethical and having clean consciences."
  created: '2006-11-28 21:58:01'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"How many other professions do you know of that have frequent conversations
    trying to convince themselves that they are important?\"\r\n\r\nMany of them do.
    Pick up any trade journal. ;o)\r\n\r\n\"I think it stems from the fact that most
    designers think that they should be important because their stuff can be seen
    everywhere. But deep down they know that they aren\u2019t really important at
    all, because it\u2019s xyz corp that is talking, not them.\"\r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I now tend to call myself a 'graphic designer who has come to the conclusion that
    graphic design isn't as important as we graphic designers like to think it is'.
    Alas, I can't figure out how to fit that on my business card. ;o)\r\n\r\n\"what
    else should a designer keep in mind in regards to helping the world and society
    in ethical, political, economical forms?\"\r\n\r\nThe same things anyone else
    in any other profession should be keeping in mind."
  created: '2006-11-28 22:09:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">many other professions do you know of that have frequent conversations trying
    to convince themselves that they are important?\r\n\r\nBasically, all of them
    :)  \r\n\r\nEverybody wants to feel important. The truth is that we don't know
    our impact much beyond our family and work colleagues, with whom we have daily
    interaction. \r\n\r\nIn the 19th century the idea that grew up that artists were
    somehow the avant garde of social change, and that socially conscious art could
    change the world. \r\n\r\nThis idea is mainly laugable. And yet... I forget who
    it was, but someone who was a very intelligent observer, and there at the time,
    who said that it was the Beatles who really finished off the Soviet Communism.
    And this wasn't the 'power to the people, right on' rubbish that John later wrote,
    but the joy and happiness that radiated from their music. It was obvious that
    you could be really happy in London of the 60's. (I was there, and I was happy
    :) And there wasn't a lot of joy in the Soviet Union of the 60's evidently. \r\n\r\nThe
    basic thing is that if we live according to high ideals and ethical conduct we
    radiate good influence. How far it goes is not in our hands. "
  created: '2006-11-28 22:10:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Judging reality via celebrities generally backfires. Rich rock stars tend
    to be happy pretty much anywhere with people who adulate rich rock stars. And
    watching US television/movies misleads billions worldwide daily.\r\n\r\nBut I
    certainly agree that behavior is contagious, and living well is inspirational.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-28 22:29:28'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Agreed. Personal interactions are the only hope. Drop the rock in the pond
    and let it reverberate. The people who want to reach out and \"touch someone\"
    are the truly scary ones.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-11-28 22:38:52'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>And this wasn\u2019t the \u2018power to the people, right on\u2019
    rubbish that John later wrote</cite>\r\n\r\nName that Rock Star ego:\r\n<li>\"Music
    can change the world because it can change people.\"</li>\r\n<li>\"The future
    is not fixed, it's fluid. The world is more malleable than you think and it's
    waiting for you to hammer it into shape.\"</li>\r\n<li>\"As a rock star, I have
    two instincts, I want to have fun, and I want to change the world. I have a chance
    to do both.\"</li>\r\n\r\nAnswer:\r\nEDIT: (Removed answer... It's more fun to
    guess...)\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-28 23:56:31'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Unfortunately I forget who it was that came up with my favourite quote in
    the circumstance...\r\n\r\n<em>\"Graphic design will save the world \u2013 right
    after rock'n'roll.\"</em>"
  created: '2006-11-29 00:12:28'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "\"We don't see things as they are, we see them as we are.\" - Anais Nin\r\n\r\nOne
    persons large solution often becomes anothers large dilemma\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-11-29 00:27:30'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Ben, it was <a href="http://www.google.com/search?client=safari&rls=en&q=%22graphic+design+will+save+the+world%22&ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8">David
    Carson</a>.
  created: '2006-11-29 00:42:14'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>\u201CAs a rock star, I have two instincts, I want to have fun, and I
    want to change the world. I have a chance to do both.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nFirst
    guess: Bono?"
  created: '2006-11-29 02:32:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Those who strive to be important the hardest are most likely to become important.
    They are also most likely to be self-centered and deluded. \r\nJust do the best
    you can do in your daily life both at home and at work with whatever means you
    have. Let others judge \"importance\" if they crave it. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-30 01:56:22'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Saving the world isn't easy, and isn't anything any one designer is going
    to do. But there's nothing wrong with making a point to not screw things up any
    more than they already are.
  created: '2006-11-30 02:17:34'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: <em>...it was David Carson. </em>  Oooooh! <a href="http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&q=Schadenfreud&btnG=Google+Search">Schadenfreud
    </a>(sic) no?! Especially when I consider what I've just been saying about his
    work on <a href="http://typophile.com/node/29768#comment-171040">another thread.</a>
    At least I credited him his due there. Maybe the guy is a better theorist than
    he was a practitioner; but then, y'know, he <em>was</em> a sociology lecturer
    first.
  created: '2006-11-30 08:03:35'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Who's the biggest Bono of the graphic design world? (Not a hypothetical)
  created: '2006-11-30 09:34:49'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Maybe the guy is a better theorist than he was a practitioner; but then,
    y\u2019know, he was a sociology lecturer first.\"\r\n\r\nAnd likely more applicable...he
    was a surfer, dude.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-30 15:06:14'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Who\u2019s the biggest Bono of the graphic design world? (Not a hypothetical)</em>\r\nI
    don't know the answer to this, because I actually think this is subjective. I've
    got my own heroes. :)"
  created: '2006-11-30 18:29:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What is a \"Bono\"?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-30 18:34:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "!\r\nYou must be doing that on purpose*. For one thing, there's Google.\r\n\r\n*
    And no, that's not an excuse for any dolphin puns.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-30 18:37:10'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"Who\u2019s the biggest Bono of the graphic design world?\"\r\n\r\nOoh tempting...
    Careful there.  ;)"
  created: '2006-11-30 18:51:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"You must be doing that on purpose*\"\r\n\r\nActually, I don't know.  Is
    it  Sonny Bono or Pro Bono?\r\nWhat do dolphins have to do with it?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-30 20:37:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hrant,\r\nI just Googled it. Do you mean some guy from the rock group U2?
    I didn't see any dolphin references. I don't get it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-30 20:43:30'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Chris, U2's been around for over 20 years. I agree with Hrant, no excuse.
    Shame on you! I'd slap your wrist with a ruler if you were here! Bad punmaster!
    :)
  created: '2006-11-30 21:56:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The only time I heard of them was in an Apple iPod commercial. Twenty years
    ago, I was in my 40s with young children and didn't pay attention to the pop music
    scene--I still don't. I listen to old 50s-60s R&B and opera, not much else.\r\n\r\nI
    still don't get the Bono thing though? What is a Bono in this context?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-30 22:38:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't listen to U2 either. But I do listen. And I bet Flipper does to.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-30 22:47:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I started an environmental marketing agency in 1988. That was the year the
    Mississippi dried up, the Brundlandt Report coined the term \"sustainable development\",
    and the planet was Man of the Year on Time's cover.\r\n\r\nIt lasted a couple
    of years, but it didn't really fit into marketing culture, and I came to the conclusion
    that you can't position marketing services on anything but the traditional premises
    of speed, price, and quality -- quality being understood as \"creativity\" in
    this context.\r\n\r\nOur philosophy was hard-core, which created two main difficulties,
    Firstly, we tried to get clients to take out smaller ads, print fewer, smaller
    brochures, still hoping to make them as effective of course. But advertisers balked.
    Especially the large corporations who buy lots of space at a good rate, and run
    big ads with lots of white space, which suits their status.\r\n\r\nMore problematic
    was the role of creativity itself, relating to the \"stretched benefit\". To be
    truly responsible, advertising has to offer an environmental audit of the product/service,
    but that results in straight talk about tangible product qualities, like B2B industrial
    advertising. Boring, eh?! That's not the way retail and consumer advertising works,
    where the norm is to attach some benefit to the product that has no connection
    (like a celebrity testimonial), or to stretch the benefit, eg use this and get
    sexy -- but it's a car or a detergent. As Marcuse said \"products...are made into
    objects of the libido\". Design creativity is, per se, all about stretching benefits.
    Let's face it, it's getting people to buy stuff they don't need, that damages
    the environment -- and that goes for environmentally friendlier products too.\r\n\r\nSo
    I came to the conclusion that you can't change the system from within, better
    to play the game, make some money, and put your reform efforts directly into political
    action designed to effect legislation that will curb excess directly. It was just
    too difficult to make a living working with the few companies that had really
    good environmental products, because there wasn't enough money there.\r\n\r\nDon't
    get me started on cause marketing :-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-30 23:00:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> better to play the game, make some money, and put your reform\r\n> efforts
    directly into political action designed to effect legislation\r\n\r\nIf that worked,
    it would be illegal.\r\n\r\nMaterialism is entirely human.\r\nBut making materialism
    the <cite>system</cite> can only lead to misery.\r\n\r\nFew of us are strong enough
    to act on that, but most\r\nof us should be strong enough to at least admit it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-30 23:08:09'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<strong>From SomethingAwful.com</strong>\r\n\r\nhttp://www.somethingawful.com/index.php?a=2291\r\n\r\n<strong>The
    Worst Rock Stars Ever</strong>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dannymanic~bono_6605.jpg]\r\n<cite>Let
    me help you!</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\n2. Bono \u2013 When people in this day and age
    think \u201Crock star,\u201D they probably think Bono. Bono, on stage in his big
    sunglasses and his flowing shirt. Bono, with that wry little smile of his, talking
    to some politician about matters in the third world with a barely-detectable hint
    of condescension in his voice, the kind that says \u201Cwe both know that I am
    right, but you are a fatcat and I am the voice of the people.\u201D Bono\u2019s
    impeccable hair, and Bono\u2019s resolute chin. If we held elections for \u201Crock
    star,\u201D Bono would win. While Bono was once just the leader of a post-punk
    band with political pretensions, he now seems to view himself as the ambassador
    between rock and roll and the real world. The problem is, rock and roll does not
    need an ambassador to the real world, nor does it want one. Those familiar with
    the BBC sitcom \u201CThe Office,\u201D which has been released on DVD in America
    to great popularity recently, might draw a parallel between Bono and Gareth Keenan:
    If being a rock star is a job, Bono thinks he is assistant regional manager, but
    he is just assistant to the regional manager. He is rock and roll\u2019s most
    sycophantic, detestable toadie, trying to worm his way into the world of management
    without getting hired. For those of you who have no idea what I just said, I will
    provide an alternate explanation: Bono is a twat. Stop making records and go save
    the world off camera.\r\n\r\nLowest Point - The winking, self-referential failure
    that was \u201CPop.\u201D\r\n\r\nMitigating Factor \u2013 Probably brings attention
    to some good causes, the smug bastard."
  created: '2006-11-30 23:29:44'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> The problem is, rock and roll does not need an ambassador to the real world,
    nor does it want one\r\n\r\nYes? No? Let's go to Poll\r\nDoes on that rotate your
    goal and role?\r\n----------------------------\r\nRock and Roll\r\nDrive and Stroll\r\nGo
    shopping Stalls and Mall\r\nJuggle 1001 and One ball\r\nGet installed and Install\r\nClick
    and Scroll\r\n...\r\n...\r\n...\r\nAs long as there's soul!\r\nBefore going to
    a windowless hole,\r\nDoes on that rotate your goal and role?\r\nLet's go to Poll\r\nAnd
    hang it up the pole!"
  created: '2006-12-01 11:19:16'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Bono may be a self-important twat but he has raised a ton of money for Africa
    and drawn a lot of the world's attention to the crisis there. Whatever his motives
    are, I think ultimately he'll be judged more for his actions - and considering
    all the press given to truly self-important, untalented twats like Britney Spears,
    I don't really have a problem with Bono's grandstanding. Plus some of his music
    is kinda good...\r\n\r\nDo any of us actually ever do anything for purely altruistic
    reasons? Think about it. If improving the world didn't actually gratify some impulse
    in us, who'd bother. And most of the truly dedicated bleeding hearts are a bit
    unbearable in person anyway. The point is to do the best you can whether you're
    a designer, a teacher, a corporate raider (Bill Gates comes to mind) or a stay
    at home mom. It all comes around.\r\n\r\nChris L you should know who he is."
  created: '2006-12-01 15:32:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I hope he is doing some good work. Actions do speak louder than words.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-01 15:38:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have just read this Patty:\r\n\r\nhttp://news.ninemsn.com.au/article.aspx?id=164482\r\n\r\nHe
    seems like a good meaning guy after all.\r\nI still don't get the Dolphin thing
    though.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-01 15:44:25'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'At least he''s trying. You don''t get nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize
    by sitting around making comments in a type forum. '
  children:
  - author:
      name: eliason
      picture: 109936
    body: "<em>At least he\u2019s trying. You don\u2019t get nominated for the Nobel
      Peace Prize by sitting around making comments in a type forum.</em>\r\n\r\nYou
      might if you <a href=\"http://www.latimes.com/news/printedition/opinion/la-op-tookienobel4dec04,1,1344488.story\">know
      a professor friend</a>..."
    created: '2006-12-01 21:09:07'
  created: '2006-12-01 15:48:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I wish creating peace in the world were that easy. We would have done it
    by now for sure.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-01 15:54:47'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "Chris L\r\n\r\nWith regard to dolphin puns, I think Hrant was thinking purpose/porpoise."
  created: '2006-12-01 16:07:44'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "> You don\u2019t get nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize by sitting around
    making comments in a type forum.\r\n\r\nThen he can join these fine men who were
    all nominated:\r\n\r\nMussolini, Stalin, Kaiser Wilhelm II, Hitler\r\n\r\nDynamite!\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-12-01 16:20:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If improving the world didn\u2019t actually\r\n> gratify some impulse in
    us, who\u2019d bother.\r\n\r\nThis is a very humbling fact that I've come to realize
    myself, triggered by a friend's admission that she gives money to the homeless
    purely because it makes her feel better. I guess it's better to have impulses
    like that instead of the opposite.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-01 16:43:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>If that worked, it would be illegal.</em>\r\n\r\nLOL!\r\n\r\nBut seriously,
    it does work, and there are many ways for people to organize to \"effect legislation\",
    ranging from supporting democratic candidates who, if elected, will pass new laws,
    through working for NGOs who influence government policy, to various forms of
    civil disturbance -- ranging from awareness campaigns that shame governments into
    legislative action, to violent revolution, which results in a new government with
    new laws.\r\n\r\nThe Kyoto Protocol is actually legally binding; but the problem
    is that there is no penalty, so governments such as Canada's, which has signed
    the agreement, can ignore their committment with impunity. \r\n\r\n<em>but most
    of us should be strong enough to at least admit it.</em>\r\n\r\nActions speak
    louder than words. Unless a celebrity is involved, in which case any good results
    can't be disentagled from the self-serving publicity. In that sense, the celebrity
    who speaks out on an issue is involved in cause marketing, promoting both the
    cause and him/herself as product. \r\n"
  created: '2006-12-01 16:55:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, dude, it doesn't work. Peons don't get to decide. And if there's ever
    a glimmer of hope, that's what martial law is for. Or they assassinate the president.
    Democracy? That's part of the illusion - which is why all the nasties up top are
    now so eager to spread it, and consolidate it.\r\n\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/6197422.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-01 16:59:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Peons don\u2019t get to decide.</em>\r\n\r\n\"A small group of thoughtful
    people could change the world. Indeed, it's the only thing that ever has.\" -
    Margaret Read"
  created: '2006-12-01 17:24:26'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>Actions speak louder than words. Unless a celebrity is involved, in
    which case any good results can\u2019t be disentagled from the self-serving publicity.
    In that sense, the celebrity who speaks out on an issue is involved in cause marketing,
    promoting both the cause and him/herself as product.</cite>\r\n\r\nAgreed, Nick,
    but if the results are good and the byproduct is positive publicity for the celebrity
    (or not so positive, c.f. Madonna) then who loses? The cult of celebrity is at
    a fever pitch right now and that's a shame, but the few that use their celebrity
    to promote a worthy cause - Bono, George Clooney, Tim Robbins to name a few -
    should still receive some credit for the results. If that's how people want to
    take their medicine, so be it.\r\n\r\nI'm also not ready to give up on the idea
    that a small committed group can effect a change, the civil rights movement came
    from the ground up, not from the government down."
  created: '2006-12-01 18:26:34'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "I agree with Nick's philosophy. I was trying to articulate that point without
    being too specific. The other point I want to make is...in regards to pointing
    fingers about ethics...\r\n\r\nIt's all bullsh!t. I don't have anything to prove
    to anyone but myself, and neither does anyone else. Its hard enough to live by
    my own code of ethics, I'm not going to even try to live by anyone elses. So I'll
    eat my bloody steak thank you, and try to save the world as much as I can. I also
    might wear a Gap sweat-shirt if its on sale. :)"
  created: '2006-12-01 18:31:23'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: I'll wear a Gap shirt if I find it at Goodwill. But does someone in the third
    world get a choice? Doubtful. Since we DO have a choice as fat Americans/Canadians/Western
    Europeans, we should by all means make that choice that benefits not only ourselves,
    but those that have no choice.
  created: '2006-12-01 21:18:56'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: 'This conversation has strayed far from defining the influence that designers
    actually hold. But it does illustrate a point. Most people who "want to change
    the world" don''t know "how" it should change. Or worse, they know the changes
    they want to see, but can''t see the side effects of said changes. '
  created: '2006-12-01 21:34:59'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Most people who \u201Cwant to change the world\u201D don\u2019t know
    \u201Chow\u201D it should change. Or worse, they know the changes they want to
    see, but can\u2019t see the side effects of said changes.</em>\r\n\r\nAgreed.
    That's why all that can be asked of anyone is to do what you can\u2014 that is
    if you choose to.\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019ll wear a Gap shirt if I find it at Goodwill.
    But does someone in the third world get a choice? Doubtful. Since we DO have a
    choice as fat Americans/Canadians/Western Europeans, we should by all means make
    that choice that benefits not only ourselves, but those that have no choice.</em>\r\n\r\nWhile
    I agree with this to a point, it illustrates the code of ethics point I was trying
    to make. There's a trail of blood leading from many things...more than we all
    know. I highly doubt there's not at least one item in our closet, apartment or
    home that doesn't. I can own up to liking and wanting material posessions and
    I don't think I have to apologize for it. (BTW, Dan the tone of that reads WAY
    harsher than it is intended to be. I'm not making accusations because I refuse
    to purchase certain things for similar reasons.)\r\n\r\nI just think it is almost
    pointless to pick and choose how far to go with it. We can only do what we can
    all live with, and we can't ask people to research every decision they choose
    to make. How each of us choose to help society or help ourselves is only up to
    us as individuals."
  created: '2006-12-01 22:05:14'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I should have put a smiley :)\r\n\r\n<cite>Most people who \u201Cwant to
    change the world\u201D don\u2019t know \u201Chow\u201D it should change.</cite>\r\n\r\nWe
    all know how we want things to BE, the <cite>answer</cite> if you will, we just
    don't know the questions to ask to get there...\r\n\r\nAnd by the way, the answer
    is 42 :)"
  created: '2006-12-01 23:26:29'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> Most people who \u201Cwant to change the world\u201D don\u2019t know \u201Chow\u201D
    it should change.\r\nThe Experts who \u201Cwant to change the world\u201D don\u2019t
    know \u201Chow\u201D it should change.\r\n\r\n> Or worse, they know the changes
    they want to see, but can\u2019t see the side effects of said changes.\r\nOf course,
    they need the changes to be mouse-experimented to see the side effects of said
    changes.\r\n\r\nHow ignorant and unjust Man is?!"
  created: '2006-12-02 19:15:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">This conversation has strayed far from defining the influence that designers
    actually hold. \r\n\r\nGood point Christian. Someone said (did I read it here?)
    that artists and poets can't make society more just, but they can make it worth
    living in. I think this is the case also with designers. In their work, designers
    can make our world more agreeable to live in, and that's pretty wonderful in itself. "
  created: '2006-12-02 19:29:21'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Played AC+DC\r\nFrom Sky+Sea\r\nWithout Mercy!\r\n\r\nHere is AC\r\nIn need
    of PC+WC\r\nBut wanted to be DC!\r\n\r\nThere is DC\r\nIn need of PC+WC\r\nBut
    wanted to be AC!\r\n\r\nAC or DC?\r\nJust want to see\r\n\r\nFor those who know
    ABC\r\nWhere is the fallacy?"
  created: '2006-12-03 09:50:21'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: 'Aziz: compared to you, Eminem is a charlatan.'
  created: '2006-12-03 15:21:33'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Civilized2_4047.GIF]'
  created: '2006-12-03 18:37:31'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>I should have put a smiley :)</em>\r\n\r\nMe too! \r\n\r\nAziz? I think
    I understand roughly 23% of your posts. Whatever you're smoking, at least be kind
    and pass it along to the rest of us. :)"
  created: '2006-12-05 18:49:16'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> Whatever you\u2019re smoking, at least be kind and pass it along to the
    rest of us.\r\nWell Biddy , do you suspect what DanGayle has said earlier:\r\n>
    But does someone in the third world get a choice? Doubtful.\r\nAgreeing wholeheartedly
    with this addition: \r\nAs long as the Heads of the third world Governments are
    backed by the FirstClass world.\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-06 11:39:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Backed? You mean created.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-06 17:03:22'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Biddy - I'm impressed you understand 23%...\r\n\r\nCharitably, I suppose
    that if my city was having the bejesus bombed out of it like Baghdad I might retreat
    into a fantasy world myself. Or smoke something strong (perhaps imported from
    Afghanistan?)"
  created: '2006-12-06 17:52:44'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Created, bankrolled and sustained.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-12-06 18:38:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nah, the Afghan stuff is meant for the West. When the papers said \"Anti-Taleban
    forces advance in Afghanistan\" back in 2001, what they really meant was \"Poppy
    seed fields advance in Afghanistan\".\r\n\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/south_asia/6174854.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-06 18:38:57'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Aziz, that butterfly is still flying in that other page !
  created: '2006-12-06 18:45:19'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> Biddy - I\u2019m impressed you understand 23%\u2026\r\nCharitably, I suppose
    that if my city was having the bejesus bombed out of it like Baghdad I might retreat
    into a fantasy world myself. Or smoke something strong (perhaps imported from
    Afghanistan?)\r\n_______________\r\nShort-circuiting the system,\r\nWho supplied
    Saddam with the weapons of mass destruction?\r\nWhy did the West cover up Saddam's
    crimes when he used them?\r\nWhy was Saddam endlessly assisted when he suppressed
    his own people and invaded Iran, but crushed when invaded Kuwait?\r\n\r\nAdvanced
    Weapons from US, UK and France were brought generously to Iraq and the Iraqi engineers
    were sent east and west to go under Technical training. Advanced Communication
    Systems were supplied to the Iraqi army just days before the war started. I was
    doing my National service then.\r\n\r\nAlmost all the so called Muslim and Arab
    countries stood by saddam. I counted more than 100 advanced Russian Tanks entering
    Ar-Rasheed Military Camp (now in ruins) which were gifted by KING(?) Fahad of
    Arab Saudi to the Iraqi army as they considered Saddam was fighting the Fire-Worshippers!
    on behalf of the Muslim and Arab world. That was just few days before the Iraq-Iran
    war.... I will never forget as long as I live what I had eyewitnessed. \r\n\r\nIs
    Bush a Christian or Saddam a  Muslim?\r\nReligion was and is always exploited
    by the Crooks to justify their crimes.\r\n\r\nI was granted a visa early 1986
    to enter Malaysia. But when I applied for a residence there, I was asked to go
    and fight Iran first. One year before the invasion of Kuwait, I reported to the
    UNHCR in Malaysia to protect me from Saddam Intelligence following my unsuccessful
    assassination, but they replied that they would sponsor my trip to Iraq and take
    me out of Iraq if I could not make it there. When Saddam invaded Kuwait, I wrote
    to the News Straits times(Malaysia) to publish my Article \"Fighting among the
    Crooks\", they rejected it saying that they would publish any article that defends
    Saddam or Bush, the father, i.e I had to take side. When I told them that one
    had taken the right step in the wrong direction and the other the wrong step in
    the right direction, they laughed at me...\r\nWhen I was jailed for overstaying,
    prisoners from all Malaysian races (Malay, Chinees, Indians) and religions (Islam,
    Buddisim, Hindu, and Seikh) used to shout at me alternately \"Saddam\" and \"Bush\".
    My thumb was always pointing down. Police as well prisoners were confused.\r\n\r\nFor
    your information, US invaded Iraq only when it made sure that Saddam was completely
    stripped off weapons of mass destruction and even off guns capable of hitting
    more than 50 Kilometers target. Rules of the Jungle: The lion does not attack
    save the weak or sick.\r\n\r\nYou will see the end of Saddam-Makers and Breakers.\r\n\r\nStill
    have questions? All are welcome!"
  created: '2006-12-06 20:44:48'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Aziz, I wish more of your posts were as interesting and thought-provoking
    as this one. \r\n\r\nI hate this war. And I don't even like to call it a war because
    there is in fact no 'enemy'. It's an invasion, an occupation. But it looks like
    things are changing - slowly -here in the U.S. and maybe a little reality is creeping
    in. Progress perhaps?"
  created: '2006-12-06 20:53:38'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Damn. Makes me think twice about complaining about my latt\xE9 in the morning.
    \r\n\r\nBut seriously, do you recall how the graphic designers for newspapers,
    magazines, etc., reacted? In Seattle, the graphic designers at the Times call
    themselves \"Visual Journalists,\" basically implying that they have some say
    in the content. But do they really? \r\n\r\nYour comments about the Maylasian
    newspaper hit the mark. Many newspapers pander to what their audience wants to
    hear, tickling their ears so to speak. \r\n\r\nAs cynical as this sounds, no matter
    how \"open minded\" or \"objective\" a publication is, nine times out of ten it
    ends up pushing some form of government supported propaganda. As a matter of conscience,
    I have the choice of refusing, but I'm in a posh American city. How about Iraq?
    Do they, or did they, have a choice?"
  created: '2006-12-06 21:02:08'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Here is the truth that will set you free and endanger my life.\r\nIt seems
    that it is time to leave this worthless world.\r\nIt should be noted that:\r\n\r\nInspite
    of the unsuccessful attempt on my life by agents of Saddam, I did not go to the
    UNHCR AGAIN to protect me after Saddam suppression to the Shia uprising (which
    I disapproved). Iraqis were and are still confused. They relied on America to
    solve their problems not on themselves. Most Iraqi freedom-fighters were happy
    when they were taken and looked after by the UNHCR to Arabia Saudi, but they soon
    realized that they were taken Prisoners of War?! Some were taken as refugees to
    countries like Australia, Canada and some spent more than more than 14 Years.\r\n\r\n>
    Will the Americans get their way in the long run, and establish a fully democratic
    Iraq?\r\nFirst, is democracy what the Americans and/or Iraqis are after?\r\nToday,
    there are more than three hundred (300) parties in Iraq. More than 20 parties
    are Islamic!!! Every party is happy with its centres, \r\npublications and free-thinkers.
    As long as America is in Power...\r\nIs this Democracy? We need Managers and Engineers
    to build Iraq, not useless quarrelling power thirsty parties...\r\n\r\nBelieve
    me or not, the American will try to destroy God when the Sincere Iraqis (excluding
    all the parties on the surface now) begin to emphasize this point:\r\n\u2022 Since
    God creates us, then He better knows our ins and outs. Consequently, He Alone
    does set laws and rules for us to run smoothly on earth. Man knows save little.
    Otherwise, He is unjust to create and leave us unguided or to be misguided by
    Capitalism, Communism, \r\nSocialism or Democracy. UnGodly systems are the fruits
    of unGodly men. To Him we belong and to Him We return...\r\n\r\nThe Americans
    wanted  a similar situation to be carried out in Iran with the help of ex-president
    Khatami. Fortunately, the true Shia Scholars tackle this problem intelligently
    without bloodshed. However, Slow Development was the high price the Iranians paid.\r\n\r\n>
    Will I have the option of returning to Basra?\r\nWill the Americans let me live
    there? By now, I have so many Iraqi enemies, because I stood from the very beginning
    against them including Abdul Aziz Al-Hakeem, Ibraheem Ja'fari and those of the
    same length. These so-called Shia are brought by the very smart Americans... Why?
    Remember that the Shia of Iraq fought the Shia of Iran under Saddam leadership
    for eight, emphasizing for 8 years,\r\nwith the (proof) of the American-made Grand
    Ayatollah Khoi(before Sestani). These 2 Ayatollah are Iranians, nevertheless,
    they were allowed to practice their activities when Saddam was in power whereas
    the first Iraqi scholar As-Sadr was executed and many Iraqis (of Iraqi Grandfathers)
    were deported to Iran on the pretext that they were Iranians after executeing
    their men. My family was imprisoned for one year including my little brother Firas
    (9 years old then) after my escape, then deported sick and empty-handed to Iran.
    Why were my brothers not excueted? Saddam wanted me to be in a suspicious position
    in the eyes of the Iranians who never stopped questioning me \r\nbecause of that...\r\nI
    hope you come to understand why Bush thanked Ali Sestani and how the Christians
    Top Leaders in Vatican/Italy have recently discovered that the Jews were not responsible
    for Jesus crossing!\r\n\r\nI went to my home town beginning of 2005 to get the
    documents I was stripped off. There, I was introduced by my cousin who was a high-rank
    military officer in the Iraqi army to a British of Indian Origin named Shindi
    in charge of recruiting Iraqi Engineers to the American Company \"Floor\". He
    proudly showed me his diary book that was carrying the signatures of Margret Tacher
    and Others. When I asked him what for he came to Iraq. He answered that he came
    to further his study on Gilgamish 7000-years old Manuscripts! To make him understand
    to which place he has come, I gifted him the translation of the book \"Peak of
    Eloquence\" comprising the words of our Prophet \r\nSuccessor Who ruled Iraq for
    4 years 1400 years ago, ... It is a comprehensive book about the Iraqi People
    (rich of embarrassments)...\r\nMy next step was \"Twist\" and turn back to Iran
    after spending 3 months in the hell of Democracy...\r\n\r\nThird, will the Americans
    get out of Iraq???\r\nIn short, it is not Democracy what the Americans want, but
    smashing the Head in Iran with the head here!\r\nThis is the lesson they cunningly
    input and fedback by Saddam.\r\nAs the American capitalized on the Iranian MKO
    to topple the Iranian government, they are capitalizing on their tools there.\r\nAs
    I see it, God has dragged the Americans to a place where they can neither make
    it nor leave...\r\nThat's how God destroys the Arrogants...\r\n\r\n>Will the end
    result be a good one, despite the undesirable means by which it came to be?<\r\nWell-established
    countries are complaining with rising  economic and social and other problems.\r\nHow
    to build a country with thousands of war-disabled and mentally off (my brother
    Ahmad included), and millions left without education. \r\n40% of Iraqis do not
    know even how to read or write their own language. Iraqis had no choice but to
    fix Saddam's picture on their chests and carry guns in one hand and Saddam's publications
    in the other. From Cradle to  mass graves....\r\n\r\nPhilippine and Cuba in the
    time of their Dictators are paradises of freedom when compared to the Republic
    of fear.\r\n\r\nThe destruction was not the result of Gulf-warII only but if it
    was systematic and long. So, it takes more than 2 generations to recover, if the
    Americans allow...\r\nUndesirable means end up with Undesirable results. Miscalculations?!
    God never stops calculations.\r\n\r\n> What do you get from the media?\r\nGulf
    war I and II were fighting among the Crooks, as I clarified in my earlier email.
    Here I would like to add that the book tilted \" The Republic of fear\" which
    was written in the eighties by the Sameer Al-khalili was allowed to be circulated
    only in the state where he was living (in US) but this very book was sponsored
    by the Pentagon and Arabia Saudi to be translated into Arabic and circulated free
    of charge even in the far east. I got my Arabic copy in Malaysia!\r\n\r\nMore
    later!"
  created: '2006-12-06 21:33:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks for sharing your expriences, Aziz. '
  created: '2006-12-06 23:09:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it looks like things are changing\r\n\r\nPart of the illusion - a leveraging
    of the cult of personality that allows the choice of replacing puppets to replace
    real choices for change. As long as the following story doesn't REALLY sink in,
    the future will remain one where the richer peons vote for systems to rape, pillage
    and murder the poorer peons, but of course not show any of that on TV.\r\n\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/business/6211250.stm\r\n\r\nNote:
    not too long ago it was 5%. So don't give us this bullshit about the West improving
    the world, not least gradually through democracy. In fact, replacing Rumsfeld
    with Robert Gates only makes your game harder to expose and defeat.\r\n\r\nChina
    has now become the world's main hope, and ironically\r\nonly because of the centrality
    of materialism in the West.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-07 04:36:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">centrality of materialism in the West\r\n\r\nSo the Chinese are not materialistic.
    Good joke, Hrant. "
  created: '2006-12-07 04:50:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Every human is materialistic. But when you make materialism the driving force
    of a political system (as in the US) you become vulnerable to anybody who becomes
    richer than you (China). Basically China will own you, because you're for sale.\r\n\r\nFurthermore:
    every society has a materialistic element, but the ones (like China) that reserve
    their highest and deepest pride for their history and culture are more in tune
    with what humanity needs, I feel. When people point out the rampant materialism
    in China's new middle class, it is because it's such a contrast to the rest of
    the Chinese mindframe. In the West in general and the US in particular, there's
    nothing to contrast materialism against - everything else has been made secondary,
    and in fact subservient.\r\n\r\nThe fact that China is not democratic is what
    makes it so promising.\r\nContrast it to India, the other Eastern giant, which
    is falling behind.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-07 05:07:33'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Re: the original questions\r\n\r\nDesigners (graphic and industrial) have
    a large impact in a few specific ways, but I would hardly hold us up as a bastion
    of the greater good. These ways are:\r\n\r\n1) Our ability to communicate informtion
    and ideas effectively, speak to the world via the mouth of large institutions,
    and to use visual voice to cajole, deceive, encourage, and perhaps inform people
    without their conscious understanding. For good or ill.\r\n\r\n2) We are often
    directing the actions of mass production. If I choose to use soy ink on a run
    of 100,000 brochures, my tiny decision is multiplied outward. Now apply that to,
    say, the designer of the iPod or its packaging. I wouldn't say that we're masters
    of industry, but we do shape large-scale consumption to a point. But we're often
    focused on the appearance and the client's opinion, so we rarely fight for the
    larger picture.\r\n\r\n3) Our role in moving popular visual culture. Trends in
    design are often reflections of other practices, but also influence them. But
    we're hardly at the top of the food chain.\r\n\r\nI agree with Terry's original
    post. It's easy to be high-minded, but that usually comes from being middle-class
    and ignorant (I include myself in this group). Not buying Nike is a statement,
    but it's hardly the pinnacle of social responsibility. Try not buying anything
    from Procter & Gamble, or Monsanto. It's nearly impossible and those companies
    have their hands in far more questionable endeavours than Nike. Wage slaves in
    your sweatshops is a pretty minor offense in the grand scheme. Unfortunately.\r\n\r\nI
    believe that we, as designers, should strive to keep our own houses in order and
    tell each other to do so. I find that trying to design The Poster That Changed
    the World is pretty ridiculous, as it usually takes a large institution behind
    it to make any difference. Designers are usually too cute/witty for their own
    good to be real movers of social change. Though there are certainly exceptions.
    Real change is typically unglamorous and unlauded. Few make it big in design being
    either of those things."
  created: '2006-12-07 15:06:26'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: Having now caught up with the posts, I'm finding the discussions of the Middle
    East by those who live(d) there fascinating. It's no wonder that most Americans
    cannot understand the Middle East. Americans have such a hard time reconciling
    long-standing, pervasive, intense, violent conflict and the presence of human
    beings with minds, hearts, and modernity. There's a tendency to diminish the people
    of a region to a caricature of their government and extremists. Then just throw
    the word "tribal" in there...such a mental disconnect for people in over here.
  created: '2006-12-07 15:17:53'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "AzizMostafa - Thank you so much for posting your point of view.\r\n\r\nHrant
    - I agree that China is next in line but do not agree with your rosy assessment
    of that fact. Homogenous nations have scary track records as super powers.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-12-07 16:15:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Homogenous nations have scary track records as super powers.\r\n\r\nChina
    is less homogenous than many think. It is autocratic in structure, though, which
    is dangerous. The future of the world will depend a lot on the wisdom of US and
    Chinese leaders in creating effective cooperation rather than conflict. I wonder
    whether both sides will be up to the challenge. "
  created: '2006-12-07 16:38:29'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"The Poster That Changed the World\"\r\n\r\nInteresting phrase in this typophile
    blogging environment!\r\n\r\n_______________\r\n\r\n\r\nHere are some quotations
    and phrases from Abraham A. Moles, \"The Legibility of the World: A Project of
    Graphic Design,\" (<em>Design Discourse: History / Theory / Criticism</em>:\r\n\r\n\"Humans
    wander through space-time whether of the city or the printed page--where the graphic
    messages of the visualist appear. They encounter them, accept them, or reject
    them. On that contingency is based all the talent of the creative person, the
    user of fleeting moments, salvager of an interstitial availability of the individual
    in the spaces and times in which he or she acts and lives.\"\r\n\r\n\"\u2026strategist
    of the miniscule in our relationship with things\u2026\"\r\n\r\n\"\u2026graphic
    design acts as a social amplifier of the messages, attempting to tell well what
    someone has to say: \"go to such and such a place,\" \"do such and such,\" \"understand
    such and such a process,\" \"accept such and such a value.\"\r\n\r\n\"\u2026the
    world is a labyrinth that must be unravelled, a text that must be deciphered [\u2026]
    The function of the designer is to increase the legibility of the world\u2026\"\r\n\r\n\"Graphic
    design [\u2026] adresses itself to the glance the individual casts on the world,
    a glance that precedes the action performed\u2026\"\r\n\r\n\"\u2026the languages
    of writing [\u2026] are indefinitely sequential and present themselves as a series
    of signs on a line, instead of a heirarchy of elements on an ideogram or on the
    surface of the page. [\u2026] It is by the ability to master this (heirarchical)
    language that the graphic designer can impose on the world an educational value.\"[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-12-07 16:43:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Paul, I don't see China's impending domination as rosy. It is simply a desire,
    in fact a need, for change, for a correction of this horrible, precipitous downward
    spiral engineered by the West, where the spiritual (by which I categorically don't
    mean religious) half of the human reality has been subverted to the material half*.
    You know, I wouldn't even half mind <cite>that</cite> if everybody would simply
    admit it. All I'm really professing is awareness. With awareness, things become
    as good as possible.\r\n\r\n* To draw a typographic parallel, I would say it's\r\nlike
    only having display fonts and no text fonts.\r\n\r\nAnd China, just like the US
    now, will be in no mood for negotiation when the time comes. Things happen in
    cycles, and one day, yes, we will need to get rid of China too. William's view:
    now <cite>that's</cite> rosy!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-07 17:11:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/No16b_4417.jpg]\r\nManufacturing #16,
    Bird Mobile, Ningbo, Zhejiang Province, China; photo by Edward Burtynsky."
  created: '2006-12-07 18:56:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And who's paying for it?\r\n\r\nBTW, does Burtynsky have any photos of New
    Orleans?\r\n\r\nOr maybe democratic India?\r\nhttp://www.voanews.com/armenian/images/nunan_india_slums_children_210.jpg\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-07 19:05:51'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Aziz, now <em>that</em> I understood, and in the process I also understand
    you much better. \r\n\r\nThis thread has taken a very interesting turn, and inadvertently
    illustrated my original point. What some of us consider pressing matters, may
    not be to another.\r\n\r\nTake note people, and I will highlight this so an administrator
    sees this: \r\n\r\n<strong>There needs to be a printed record of this thread.
    Many if possible.</strong>\r\n\r\nWhat has been written here is unprecedented
    (at least to me). I have found out more here today than I have in any of the news
    media for several years. I expect this thread to disappear in the not too distant
    future.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-07 19:25:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Shipbreaking_3469.jpg]\r\nShipbreaking
    #49, Chittagong, Bangladesh; photo by Edward Burtynsky."
  created: '2006-12-07 19:27:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "India + Ship = http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/south_asia/4796221.stm _\r\nPoor
    peon health for sale.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-07 19:58:07'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Change is inevitable Hrant.\r\n\r\nOne day you and I will be living in the
    Peoples Republic of California (I hope).\r\n\r\nIt will be very interesting when
    this empire finally falls.\r\n\r\nWill it go relatively quietly, like Russian
    communism?\r\n\r\nOr will it be catastrophic, like German national socialism?\r\n\r\nI
    suspect the latter.\r\n\r\nI don't think people will easily give up the economic
    system that is closest to human nature.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-12-07 20:09:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If humans are not just animals, materialism cannot be enough. It can even
    be argued that animals aren't that simple either. Consider for example that a
    Dalmatian will physically go berserk if it's the only pet in the household, no
    matter how good the food and shelter that it has. Anyway, no matter what we're
    really made of, awareness is our best hope, and we have very little of it now.
    We have tons of <cite>information</cite>, but clearly that's not translating to
    awareness. In fact maybe the deluge of information is meant to impede awareness.\r\n\r\nYes,
    it is interesting to speculate how the current empire will go. Will it implode
    gracefully and be left with a viable core, or will it be another Rome? I think
    it's dependent mostly on age, on heritage. China for example I can picture imploding
    gracefully when the time comes (in fact one could argue it's already done that
    once) but Rome was apparently too young, too arrogant, to really survive at all;
    and the US is even younger, and almost as arrogant.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-07 23:40:57'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I fully agree.\r\n\r\nMaterialism does not fulfill, yet we have seen a serious
    rise in it, especially amongst the young, who are supposed to be our idealists.
    That has been my experience at least.\r\n\r\nThe flood of information is carefully
    constructed, one pitch at a time, by the millions of PT Barnums that marketing
    has unleashed. That's why I was so negative about the original question, because
    I know that designers at this point are underlings of the marketing department.\r\n\r\nAnd
    if your stream of information is constructed by marketers, then what other conclusion
    can you come to?\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-12-07 23:52:59'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Nick, I have that photo too - I loved that show!
  created: '2006-12-08 00:37:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Right Patty, I bought the poster, cut out the picture and framed it. Bit
    of a cheat, but I was more into enjoying the shot than making an investment. '
  created: '2006-12-08 05:03:03'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: You're one up on me, I just have the postcard!
  created: '2006-12-09 15:21:17'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Out of What Politicians take advantage?!\r\n___________________________________\r\nA
    3rd world PM listening to VIP in his middle age:\r\nIn politics, I am not supposed
    to engage\r\nThough everything in wreckage+garbage\r\nNever stop giving you White
    Image\r\n\r\n\u2014 President: Have you received the Package?\r\nMore important
    now is to whiten my image!\r\n\r\n\u2014 President: Any Leakage?\r\nHave been
    re-flipping the Same Books page by page\r\nMine, I am supposed to suppress to
    a single usage\r\nBut, thanks to the free time and high wage\r\nmmmmm,  I have
    been trapped by Underage\r\n...\r\nNext morning, this story on every Frontpage\r\nThe
    Opposition has taken Underage hostage!\r\nAnd the people stage a protest of Outrage\r\n....\r\nDay
    after next, 3 images on every Frontpage\r\nThe hostage in bandage!\r\nA Deaf and
    Dumb in cage!\r\nVIP waving to huge Crowd down the stage!\r\n____________________________________\r\nJust
    a lesson from the Dark Age!"
  created: '2006-12-11 07:54:08'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Maybe it's just me but I don't mind Aziz's poetry every now and then, if
    that's Aziz's way of expressing himself, so be it. Diversity is a good thing and
    in my opinion it should be welcomed. As far as animated gifs are concerned they
    are annoying, especially animated avatars (although some of them are brilliant).
    \r\nI certainly don't think Aziz's poems are a waste of bandwidth. Speaking of
    bandwidth...it's the 2nd time this week people have been calling others a \"a
    waste of bandwidth\". It's becoming a very trendy insult! \"Look at you! You are
    such a waste of bandwidth!\". \r\nI remember at school we had a friend who was
    a pain in the arse, he always had this silly wolly hat on so we called him a waste
    of wool. Sorry for the digression.\r\n\r\nAnother cool insult is \"you are such
    a Renuisance!\". We should definetely keep a printed record of that one!"
  created: '2006-12-11 13:14:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ah, the good old days when you could just call someone an SOB and be done
    with it :-)\r\n\r\nOfcourse in the good old days, you had to be a King to invade
    a country, now any idiot can do it.\r\n\r\nSome of Aziz's poetry is quite good.
    The rest may be as well but I don't understand enough of it to say.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-11 13:48:18'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Here is one of my experiences that I would like to share here:\r\n__________________________________________________________\r\nIn
    1987, Henry Kesenger visited Malaysia for 2 weeks to meet the 9 Sultans (Kings)...
    Needless to say, the  visit could outrage Malays. On that day, to divert the Malays
    attention, \"Berita Harian\" \u2014 the Ruling Party newspaper\u2014 came out
    reading:\r\n\"Kesenger in Malaysia\" in a dying font inside a small square at
    the top left hand corner, and the lower half of the frontpage and in eye-catching
    font was covered with what translates into \"Disappearance of the Verses of the
    Holy Book\". \r\n\r\nThe newspaper claimed that one of the religious teacher in
    one of the villages eyewitnessed the lines of the Holy Book flying away (never
    explained how) as she was scan-reading them. \r\nAnd the Opposition Muslim Party
    began their Religious/Political campaign...\r\nFor 14 successive days, newspapers
    were pouring oil on fire...\r\nWas teaching Arabic Language then at Al-Taufiqqya
    Private School in a village in Kedah/North. \r\n\r\nA member of the State Assembly
    named Ustaz (Scholar) Zahari came to see me in companion with a number of PAS
    Islamic Party followers... \r\nUstaz asked: \"Do you see what happened a sign
    of the ereafter?\" \"What is your opinion?\" \r\nHe reiterated verses of the Holy
    Book and began interpreting them as he (mis)understood and insisted on reply.
    \r\n\r\nReplied questioning: \r\n\u2022 Has All the 30-parts of Holy Book disappeared
    or a part of it? \r\n\u2022 Have the same pages disappeared from the same edition
    or different editions? \r\n\u2022 Is there any possibility of misprinting? \r\n\u2022
    How many countries witnessed this Miracle beside Malaysia? \r\n\u2022 What is
    God's Wisdom behind taking the Holy Book back to him? \r\n\u2022 Why this happens
    now, not before? What is special in this day? \r\n\r\nBefore finishing my last
    question, one of Scholar's followers jumped to finish me for being ungodly. Fortunately,
    I was saved in time by other followers.\r\n\r\nAfterwards, when Henry Kesenger
    finished his task with the 9 Malaysia Kings and the issue went out of control,
    the PM, Mahateer Mohammed, ordered an investigating committee to be formed for
    the matter... \r\n\r\nTwo months later, the committee discovered the Misprinting!!!\r\n______________________________________________________\r\nInteresting?
    Or should I stop posting out-of-question matters."
  created: '2006-12-11 15:29:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Two months later, the committee discovered the Misprinting!!!\"\r\n\r\nAmazing
    how a printing mistake can be used in a crisis. In your case the price for such
    a mistake could have been higher than what a reprint would cost.\r\n\r\nThe World
    is an insane place to search for sanity.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-11 15:50:36'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "This kind of slight of hand is disgusting. It's a disgrace.\r\n\r\nDo we
    as designers have a role to play in society? I think Bringhurst said it better
    than I ever could:\r\n\r\n<strong><cite>Elements of Typographic Style</cite></strong>\r\n<strong><cite>First
    Principles \xA7 1.1.3</cite></strong>\r\n<cite>The same alphabets and page designs
    can be used for a biography of Mohandas Gandhi and for a manual on the use and
    deployment of biological weapons. Writing can be used both for love letters and
    for hate mail, and love letters themselves can be used for manipulation and extortion
    as well as to bring delight to body and soul. Evidently there is nothing inherently
    noble and trustworthy in the written or printed word. Yet generations of men and
    women have turned to writing and printing to house and share their deepest hopes,
    perceptions, dreams and fears. It is to them, not the extortionist \u2013 nor
    to the opportunist or the profiteer \u2013 that the typographer must answer.</cite>\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-11 17:58:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I have found out more here today than I have in any of the news media
    for several years.</em>\r\n\r\nTerry, you may like <a href=\"http://www.coldtype.net\">Cold
    Type.</a>\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-12 05:22:35'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> ... and love letters themselves can be used for manipulation and extortion
    as well as to bring delight to body and soul. \r\n\r\nLove-making letters themselves
    can also be used for manipulation and extortion as well as to bring delight to
    body and soul?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-12 05:32:21'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: What happened when Pharoah's wife tries to seduce Joseph, son of Jacob, son
    of Issaac, son of Abraham? Was that love? What if she had written him a love letter?
    Would that have been a letter to bring delight to the body and soul of Joseph,
    or to manipulate him?
  created: '2006-12-12 07:59:43'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> Was that love?\r\nOne way love. She loved his mighty moral, mighty body
    as well his handsomeness.\r\n\r\n> What if she had written him a love letter?\r\nThere
    was no alternative to body language!\r\n\r\n> Would that have been a letter to
    bring delight to the body and soul of Joseph, or to manipulate him?\r\nNeither!
    Matters are judged by their ends!"
  created: '2006-12-12 12:22:10'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Terry, you may like Cold Type.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks Nick, I'll give 'er
    a read."
  created: '2006-12-14 20:44:16'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "\"To be or not to be\"\r\n<em>Shakespeare</em>\r\n\r\n\"To be is to do\"\r\n<em>Sartre</em>\r\n\r\n\"Do
    be do be do...\"\r\n<em>Sinatra</em>"
  created: '2006-12-17 12:39:38'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "True creative expression should never be censored...\r\n\r\nDid you not learn
    from impressionism - no matter how many paintings did not get the official French
    government stamp -- it didn't matter. Artists have always struggled -- a government
    not allowing them to sell their art - only helped them to be more creative...
    There was something motivating these great painters - and here - more than 100
    years later - we are still enjoying them.\r\n\r\nIf you are talking about advertisers
    - ah, that's a whole 'nother story."
  created: '2006-12-17 15:07:09'
date: '2006-11-25 14:03:36'
title: am i right in saying that we, as designers have a huge role to play in society.

---
