---
author:
  name: vank
body: "Hi everybody,  \r\nI suspect i don't need to say much about the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DejaVu_fonts\">
  open source DejaVu project</a>. The link speaks for itself. \"The\" DejaVu \"fonts
  are free as in freedom, and may thus freely be embedded\". \r\n\r\nWhat i 'm posting
  below is a recent attempt to design Greek glyphs for the serif version from scratch,
  initially for my very personal use (i guess i liked too much typesetting in the
  Latin version). The idea of including these glyphs in the original DejaVu Serif
  is currently under consideration by the team running the project, so, your feedback
  on the way the glyphs look and any ideas for their potential improvement are more
  than welcomed.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: '[<em>comments elided</em>] '
  created: '2006-11-25 17:38:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Funny, I was gearing up to soften things up when I read that last bit!\r\nBefore
    I forget: RCC, what's your actual name?\r\n\r\nMy problem is I'm not even close
    to being an expert in Greek...\r\nBut I can offer the following, based on my general
    ideas about type:\r\n1) It's too latinized. Too many serifs for one thing, and
    I'm guessing you've matched up the vertical proportions WRT the Latin. Please
    read my article in the 2005 edition of Hyphen (the Greek typographic journal).
    Or for starters: http://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_rome1.html _\r\nSpecifically
    in the lc for example, the eta and chi are fully Latinized. They're not Greeks,
    they're tourists.\r\n2) There is a general malformation of curves. A quick look
    at the alpha indicates there's a lot of work to be done...\r\n\r\nAll this said,
    I think with research, thought, sensitivity and persistence you can and will arrive
    at something good enough. And try to be happy even for the negative opinions:
    it means people care. Also, you have something very valuable going for you: nativity.
    The fact that you've been (I presume) exposed to Greek since childhood means you
    have the invaluable but elusive cultural sensitivity in you - you just have to
    get to it, by effort, but also by knowing what elements from Latin type to throw
    away instead of blindly replicate.\r\n\r\nBTW, I noticed that* DejaVu has an Armenian
    component.\r\nI'd be curious to see that, and there I could help you guys for
    real.\r\n\r\n* I'm asssuming it's the \"Arev\" set mentioned in that wiki - which
    is\r\npretty clever, since it's the reverse of \"Vera\", and it means \"sun\"!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-25 19:10:22'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "vank \u2014 Really not bad at all. And the fact that you're designing for
    an OpenSource project has my full sympathy. I also strongly support your choice
    in favour of letter shapes that comply to what a typographical typeface should
    be, i.e. that what some consider \"latinocentric\". That choice is seconded by
    authorities in type design such as Jan van Krimpen and Eric Gill. However, some
    suggestions:\r\n\r\n\u0391: cross bar too low\r\n\u0392: too wide; cross bar too
    low\r\n\u0393: too wide (= arm too long)\r\n\u0394: foot stroke too thin (match
    it with the left slanted stroke)\r\n\u0395: cross bar too high\r\n\u0397: cross
    bar too high\r\n\u0398: cross bar too high; serifs too big (long), which clutters
    the counter\r\n\u039E: cross bar too high and too thin, serifs to big (cfr \u0398)\r\n\u03A1:
    (bowl) too wide\r\n\u03A3: the diagonals shouldn't have the same thickness; either
    the upper one is the thicker (following the translation of the pen), or the lower
    one (as in Z)\r\n\u03B3: you should choose between these alternates (I prefer
    the first one)\r\n\u03B6: you should choose between these alternates (I prefer
    the second one)\r\n\u03B7:  perhaps making a descender from the second stroke
    would be one concession you could make to the misolatinists (and would better
    match the \u03BC)\r\n\u03BD: you should choose between these alternates (I prefer
    the second one)\r\n\u03BE: you should choose between these alternates (I prefer
    the first one while is the most latinised)\r\n\u03C2: you should choose between
    these alternates (I prefer the first one)\r\n\u03C5: you should choose between
    these alternates (I prefer the second one)\r\n\u03B0: acutus too low in regard
    to the trema\r\n\r\nDid you plan to add polytonic glyphs as well? (Having been
    a classical philologist, I deem this ablosutely necessary for a Greek font.)"
  created: '2006-11-25 23:51:27'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Don't call Eric Gill an authority in type design. He was nothing of the sort.
    He was a lettercarver with occasional forays into type design. I don't think he
    was the designer of the Greek sets to his own types. \r\n\r\nVangelis, you might
    want to get Gerry Leonidas' document on Greek Type Design. It's very thorough
    in explaining various conventions of Greek type design. Though you might want
    more sources, this is a valuable document for what you are doing."
  created: '2006-11-26 01:41:14'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: '[<em>comments elided</em>] '
  created: '2006-11-26 04:03:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> authorities in type design such as Jan van Krimpen and Eric Gill.\r\n\r\nTwo
    people who made some of the most horrid Greek type ever seen.\r\nAnd I really
    like Gill!\r\n\r\nLatinization is generally dysfunctional, and almost always disrespectful.\r\nEspecially
    in a text face, superficial formal harmony is for little children.\r\n\r\n> Unwind
    a bit.\r\n\r\nI'm sorry if I seemed wound up - I wasn't.\r\nI really am just curious
    to know your name.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-26 06:20:45'
- author:
    name: vank
  body: "...had a bad day \"rcc\"? \r\nI can take all the criticism in the world,
    I LOVE constructive criticism. But i can hardly see any real criticism on your
    posts nor do i feel that you essentially offered any real input. I shall therefore
    not consider these posts any more seriously than \r\nyou considered mine. Just
    for the record, without being a \"self-respecting typographer\", but definitely
    considering myself a self-respecting reader, you need to be reminded that we do
    need to typeset other texts as well rather than...the Bible or the Battle of Marathon,
    in Greece. Regardless of your nationality then, your stay for as much as a quarter
    of a century in the country should have offered you a couple of looks on some
    newspapers at least. Garamond's or Didot's designs were wonderful, the Slimbach
    and the Greek Font Society's revivals are magnificent, still there are people
    who need to typeset texts that simply do not look OK with the \"retrospective
    touches\" typefaces like these have. Oh, and by the way, my sincere apologies
    for hurting your eyes. \r\n\r\nDear Hrant, Ludwig M. Solzen and crossgrove sincere
    thanks for your comments. Now, that's real food for thought. Indeed, i still have
    a lot of work on the curves and lots of research to carry out. To be honest, i
    was expecting to hear that it looks too latinized and was more than sure that
    the remarks about the latin \"chi\" and \"eta\" would immediately pop-up. I've
    kept these glyphs like that after some consideration though. I'm not sure whether
    it's just a trend or whether the real reasons behind it are more practical (e.g.
    saving up some space and simplifying letterforms when typesetting in very small
    sizes etc.), but chi's and eta's without descenders are something that more and
    more appears in contemporary Greek typefaces (a big percentage of typefaces designed
    and used inside Greece); you might want to consider that. Also, you might not
    be aware of that or like it, but another \"trend\" is a latinized zeta or final
    sigma and I'm not speaking about just a couple of typefaces for specific uses
    here. I'm speaking about typefaces used by the biggest newspaper/magazine publishing
    companies. The only contemporary typeface that managed to be a real exception
    to all these \"trends\" without looking \"old-fashioned\" (don't misunderstand
    my point here, please) is, to my eyes, P. Bilak's \"Fedra\". Now, it was after
    some thought that i chose my pathway; i wanted to attempt a design that, while
    it might not be so academically consistent, it might actually turn out usable
    by people who simply don't want the classical touches of already existing, beautiful
    serif typefaces, some of which are already offered as freeware. Moreover, to my
    eyes, an overall too curvy and \"calligraphic\", too-\"traditional\" (e.g. Garamond-like
    since \"rcc\" mentioned it) design of the Greek glyphs could easily end up leading
    DejaVu to a \"typeface-within-a-typeface\" problem, namely, Greek glyphs side
    by side with Latin glyphs looking as if they actually belonged to different typefaces.
    A too-Latinized version, as you nicely pointed out for my design, is on the other
    edge, though. And upon this i should do some more research indeed. \r\n\r\nFor
    the Armenian component of the DejaVu you might want to contact the team running
    the project? \r\n\r\nAll the best, \r\n\r\nVangelis\r\n\r\n\r\nPS: Dear Ludwig,
    yes, polytonic support is going to be added as soon as the glyphs forms are finalized. "
  created: '2006-11-26 07:28:08'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "The concept of latinisation is wrong. Western script originates from its
    Greek ancestry, which in its turn derives from the Phoenician alphabet, which
    in turn, &c. Alphabetical script forms one insoluble whole, as opposed to syllabic
    or pictographic scripts. The differences between the diverse sets (Latin, Greek,
    Cyrillic) are in the letterforms, their skeletons that is, not in the way they
    are stylistically rendered. This derives from the tools and the intended use.\r\n\r\nPrinted
    scripts are formalised because of the way in which they were and are produced,
    and because of their use with composing and printing machines. Printing was invented
    in Western Europe (forget about the Chinese and Koreans for a moment), where Latin
    script dominated. The letter forms that were taken as a model were already heavily
    formalised, becoming even more so as printing faces. So, what one considers latinocentric
    (formalised in stead of chirographic forms), really is the essence of type (printing
    type, that is), not an exclusive particularity of Latin script.\r\n\r\nGreek script
    never came loose from chirography, likely because it was introduced already too
    late in print, or because those who commissioned the first Greek types attached
    too heavily to the exotic Greek manuscripts of their days. Anyhow, the fact that
    for centuries Greek has been set with cursive types, makes that all Greek fonts
    look the same, i.e. there is but one style that is deemed proper for it, while
    Latin script has evolved over the centuries and can look back at a rich variety
    of styles. I strongly support type designers to give Greek (and Cyrillic) script
    a similar richness of style. This doesn't mean that proper glyph shapes are to
    be rejected (such as in Serbian or Bulgarian); chirographic idiosyncrasies (such
    as the pleade of Greek script ligatures), though, should be removed as unnecessary
    redundancies."
  created: '2006-11-26 14:16:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I\u2019m not sure whether it\u2019s just a trend or whether the real reasons\r\n>
    behind it are more practical (e.g. saving up some space and\r\n> simplifying letterforms
    when typesetting in very small sizes etc.)\r\n\r\nTrends happen. Yes, it's important
    to be aware of them, but even more important is: recognizing and supporting the
    ones that are actually good; and seeing the limits of style in the domain of text
    faces.\r\n\r\nSaving space is a good thing, usually. It's just another factor.\r\n\r\nSimplfying:
    now there's the bugbear. Way too often it ends up resulting in empoverishment,
    and not much else. I wish it was just another factor, but usually it's too dominant.
    A symptom of Modernism.\r\n\r\nAnd what usually gets dropped from the equation
    is cultural and functional insight and sensitivity. This can only lead to an icrease
    in the size of the pointless gray blob consuming (intentional choice of  term,
    that) the world.\r\n\r\n> what one considers latinocentric (formalised in stead\r\n>
    of chirographic forms), really is the essence of type\r\n\r\nThis is exactly the
    sort of cultural hubris that leads to the demotion of minorities. And it is the
    disease of Modernism that has drawn a veil over the former and made the latter
    actually seem like a <cite>positive</cite>!  :-/\r\n\r\nIn essence, anything not
    part of the dominant\r\nculture is an \"unnecessary redundancy\"...\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nSeeing
    chirography and latinization as opposites may seem historically\r\nvalid, but
    in essence it's an illusion. I for one am firmly against both.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-26 15:28:59'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: "Sorry, Vangelis. After solemn reflection, you're quite right. I was dreadfully
    mistaken to have supposed your wish was to create something durable. So, by all
    means, kick out those inconvenient mainstays of legibility and readability, demolish
    those ornery notions of underlying structural unity, string things together higgledy-piggledy
    if you like, and then foist your results upon masses of incognoscenti. (You've
    got nothing to lose. Most users will never know better anyway. Besides that, it's
    freeware, for God's sake, so they'll receive apposite quality and value for sums
    suitably unpaid.) \r\n\r\nAs a gesture of good will, I've even elided my previous
    posts. That's neither retreat nor retraction, mind you, but an attempt to assuage
    any perturbations triggered by the frictions of reality. I certainly shan't trouble
    you again.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-26 15:29:07'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "Hrant \u2014 I suppose, you consider rational argument as belonging to the
    hybris of dominant Western culture, too? Claiming that latinisation and chirography
    aren't opposites, merely while you are both against them, suggests that either
    you suffer from hybris yourself, or that you're an inconsequent schizo. If you
    consent that my statement at least <cite>seems</cite> \"historically valid\",
    then could you please also explain <cite>why</cite> you think it's an illusion?\r\n\r\nRationality,
    formalisation and economic use are assets of progress, not the privilege of one
    particular culture. If Modernist Western culture has been the pioneer of progress
    and has spend numerous efforts in promulgating civilisation (amongst the fruits
    of which are print and type design), that sure is no reason to disdain it as being
    imperialistic. Can't one just acknowledge that at least a few things are universal
    goods, belonging to mankind in general, apart from whom invented or discovered
    them first?"
  created: '2006-11-26 16:37:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) Seems can mean not really.\r\n2) Historical validity can only ever be
    a means, not an end.\r\n\r\n> ... apart from whom invented or discovered them
    first?\r\n\r\n?\r\nWeren't you just relying on things like \"Printing was invented
    in Western Europe\"? As if that's even true however. \"Forget about the Chinese\",
    he says. Pretty soon it's the Chinese who will be having us forget about you.\r\n\r\nRationality,
    formalization etc. are things that can have good or bad results, depending most
    of all on <cite>intent</cite>. And so-called \"western civilization\" can't be
    accused of having good intentions, <cite>historically</cite> speaking. Much of
    what you consider progress I consider not.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-26 16:55:40'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "> Pretty soon it\u2019s the Chinese who will be having us forget about you.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I contentedly wait for that day when the Chinese will surpass our decadent culture,
    by being even more modernist. Still, they didn't invent printing as it is understood
    generally, and as it was (re)invented, refined, used and promulgated by the Europeans.
    The endeavours of the Chinese and the Koreans in printing with moveable types
    is an interesting anecdote of history, but nevertheless remains marginal in regard
    to the history of print and of present evolutions. The technology which the Chinese
    so eagerly are copying today (so that they soon will flood our markets) is the
    fruit of Western inventions.\r\n\r\n> \u201Cwestern civilization\u201D can\u2019t
    be accused of having good intentions, historically speaking\r\n\r\nBy what standard
    do you measure the \"goodness\" of an intention? History and morality are two
    different things\u2014and I am both against them ;-) I know, Western civilisation
    is but a euphemism for the pursuits of a bunch of capitalistic, macho warmongers.
    Nevertheless, and perhaps despite its intentions, it has brought us science without
    which most of the world's population would be starving even more, global communication,
    the abolishment of slavery and torture &c. You are free to not consider this as
    progress, of course.\r\n\r\nAnyhow, as for type design, either you stay with tradition
    and the historical particularities of a given script, and so choose for calligraphy
    and chirography. Or you comply to the universal standards of a script system which
    uses moveable and reusable type forms that in order to set well must be economic
    and formal. In that case you will be designing type."
  created: '2006-11-26 17:25:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The Koreans first invented printing with movable metal types. Period. And
    it's not impossible that Gutenberg (or whoever) got the idea from them. If that's
    true, should we start mostly making Latin type that looks Korean? Even if (or
    actually, especially) if Korea was trying to dominate the world, that would be
    stupid.\r\n\r\n> it has brought us science\r\n\r\nYou did not invent science.
    You were living in trees when that happened.\r\n\r\n> perhaps despite its intentions\r\n\r\nIn
    the end, nothing really happens <cite>despite</cite> intentions. World misery
    (you abolished slavery?! give me a break) is increasing under your watch. Under
    your directions. For most people the 20th century, your century, was the worst
    in human history.\r\n\r\n> as for type design, either ... or\r\n\r\nYou should
    work for the White House.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-26 18:18:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Western civilisation ...it has brought us science\r\n\r\nModern science,
    correct. \r\n\r\nThe 'scientific revolution' (Copernicus, Galileo, Newton) drew
    on ideas particularly from ancient Greece (part of Western civilization) and Arabic
    mathematics (also part of Western civilization) which in turn drew from Indian
    mathematics (ideas developed before much Western influence, I believe). However,
    it was decisively new and different, advancing far beyond any of its antecedents. "
  created: '2006-11-26 18:41:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The Romans were the first true westerners.\r\nThe others, such as the Ancient
    Greeks and Arabs, were not western.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-26 19:34:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "In history of ideas, the Greeks are normally and correctly viewed as one
    of the founders of Western civilization. \r\n\r\nThis is particularly true in
    history of science. Archimedes is the closest to modern science of any thinker
    prior to the scientific revolution, and the translation of his works into Latin
    was a key ingredient in the new ideas of Galileo--who as I remember called him
    'the divine Archimedes'--and Newton.  "
  created: '2006-11-26 20:00:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, you've simply co-opted the Ancient Greeks to make yourselves look better*.
    Referring to your own corrupt souces does not change the truth that the Ancient
    Greeks were fundamentally different in core philosophy than the Romans, and the
    Romans were fundamentally the same in that respect as the contemporary West.\r\n\r\n*
    Just like you personally just tried to do with the medieval Arabs. Puhleez.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-26 20:09:59'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "Hrant \u2014 What do you mean by continually referring to us as 'you'? Do
    you, US citizen from the west coast, not consider yourself as a westerner?"
  created: '2006-11-26 21:24:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm an Armenian mongrel.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-26 21:26:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">personally just tried to do with the medieval Arabs\r\n\r\nYeah it's part
    of my personal plot against you to claim that our numerals are Arabic and that
    Algebra is Arabic. That's all a big lie I invented. And that Descartes combined
    the Arabic algebra and Greek geometry. And that Newton applied them both to Archimedes'
    problem of squaring the parabola and so invented the calculus. All part of my
    hopelessly Roman way of thinking. \r\n\r\nAnd pigs fly. "
  created: '2006-11-26 22:23:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You tried to make the Arab's development of Math seem like part of western\r\ncivilization
    (go read what you wrote). Pigs don't fly, but they do try to tell\r\nus what to
    think. You've chosen to believe them, because it validates you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-26 22:40:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">You tried to make the Arab\u2019s development of Math seem like part of
    western civilization\r\n\r\nIt wasn't me; it's in every history of science. The
    development of Algebra from Hindu and *Greek* roots is during the Islamic era.
    And Islamic culture is Western. Islam itself was heavily influenced by Judaism
    and Christianity. And Islamic scholars studied and developed the ancient Greek
    philosophers when Europe had lost most of their writings. Those who don't understand
    history of ideas, like you, think that Islamic cultures are not part of Western
    tradition, but they are--they drew from both the Greek and Hebraic traditions
    in their earlier years, and in turn they heavily influenced Europe during the
    Renaissance. \r\n\r\nIslam didn't participate in the European Renaissance, and
    so Islamic and European cultures started to diverge, but that's another story. "
  created: '2006-11-26 23:06:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "History is written by the winners, and yours is written by you.\r\nNeither
    Islam, nor Judaism, nor Christianity are Western.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-26 23:35:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW William, any opinions on uuuh... <cite>Vangelis's font</cite> maybe?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-27 00:25:59'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Vangelis, first of all it is great that you are contributing to the DejaVu
    project. A lot has been said in this thread that I could comment on, but let me
    just add my opinions about the font for now.\r\n\r\nFirst the lowercase letters:\r\n\r\nOf
    the variant forms of letters (gamma, zeta, nu, ksi, finial sigma, upsilon), I
    like the first ones in all the cases. Breaking the symmetry helps letter differentiation.
    I agree that the curves have to be touched up in alpha, and also in the zeta,
    ksi, and finial sigma. The upper-left serif of eta needs thinning.\r\n\r\nI think
    I might prefer the theta opened up on the left, although it might be a challenge
    to keep a clean look in that form. The chi might work better with semi-serifs
    for the thicker diagonal. I am curious about the decision to shape the tau like
    you did, with the foot slightly dipping below the baseline and diverging from
    the forms of iota and pi.\r\n\r\nMaybe you could make the angle of the acutos
    steeper when it combines with the trema. Right now the combination isn't completely
    happy.\r\n\r\nAs for the uppercase:\r\n\r\nI agree that the crossbar of the alpha
    is too low, but I'm guessing that comes from the latin cognate forms from DejaVu
    Serif. Still, you could make the Greek forms subtly different from the latin.
    The serifs of the middle horizontal strokes of the theta and the ksi are a bit
    too prominent.\r\n\r\nOverall, the text setting looks good, though I'll have to
    print it out to form a better opinion. Please keep posting improvements."
  created: '2006-11-27 06:35:09'
- author:
    name: vank
  body: "Good morning everybody,\r\n\r\nmany thanks for the great input Brian :-)
    This is just a fast post; I'll be back posting more later on. I just wanted to
    show you the already existing glyphs in the DejaVu Serif, designed sometime ago
    by another member of the project. The link is here, i've typeset exactly the same
    text for easier comparison and discussion: \r\nhttp://osmosisnet.com/vkarag/DejaVuSerif_existing.pdf\r\n\r\ngreetings,
    \r\n\r\nVangelis"
  created: '2006-11-27 06:48:29'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I've been thinking about the existing and new versions of Greek glyphs. Putting
    aside the issue of their design merits for a moment, I'm curious whether you (Vangelis)
    intend the new version to complement the existing one or to replace it.\r\n\r\nI
    think both styles of Greek have their uses. In fact, I think maybe three different
    styles of Greek glyphs are necessary for full versatility.\r\n\r\nLet me explain.
    Who needs the Greek glyphs in a multilingual open source font like DejaVu Serif?
    I think most users will fall under one of three categories:\r\n\r\n1. Greek speakers.\r\n2.
    Scholars who deal with Ancient or Mediaeval Greek.\r\n3. Those who need the odd
    Greek glyphs now and then for technical symbols.\r\n\r\nAs you implicitly suggested,
    each category has its own rules of what is acceptable in the design of the Greek
    glyphs. It is possible to have a single set of Greek glyphs for all those purposes,
    but perhaps what is needed is a different approach in designing the glyphs for
    each case.\r\n\r\nMany of the glyphs you designed will be inappropriate for use
    as symbols in technical contexts. In an English-language mathematics book , it
    would be useless to have an alpha that can be confused with a single-storey a,
    or a chi that is identical to x. International readers who have been taught just
    those canonical Greek letterforms (in most cases just a subset of the whole alphabet)
    will surely be left confused and clueless.\r\n\r\nAnd as you mentioned, different
    styles of Greeks are appropriate for setting something like the Septuagint and
    the latest Greek newsmagazine.\r\n\r\nSo my thinking is that a multiscript font
    that aims for full versatility should offer up to three different styles of Greek
    to suit each need, maybe as Opentype stylistic sets."
  created: '2006-12-01 10:53:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I think both styles of Greek have their uses.\r\n\r\nExactly - and that
    applies to any non-Latin script. This is why Nour&Patria is a multilateral system,
    with a master design for each script, each with a subordinate in the other script
    (causing Modernists to consistently claim that it's \"too complicated\"...) On
    the other hand, it remains important to realize and admit which styles are better
    at what - for example that a Latinized Greek style is unsuitable for the dignified
    setting of a Greek book for example.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-01 16:38:56'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I've been sketching a Latin lc set that is subordinate to Greek lc, trying
    (from my limited Latin POV) to reverse the approach. I'm pretending Greek is the
    standard and that I'm unfamiliar with Latin. Hrant, I wish I could see Nour/Patria
    (I can't find it on your foundry pages).\r\n\r\nAs Brian points out, there are
    different uses for Greek glyphs. There are different applications for type; if
    a Greek newspaper or book needs to refer to some Latin-based text, of course you
    don't want the Latin to visually clash with the Greek, but visual harmony is not
    the same as identical texture, color, etc. in every detail.  Why would we consider
    it important to harmonize different scripts unless there were technical constraints?
    Hopefully we try to overcome those constraints whenever possible? \r\n\r\nIn setting
    multilingual documents in multiple Latin-based languages, the challenge is always
    to differentiate the material in the different languages, or at least organize
    the layout so a reader can follow one or the other language. Doesn't the different
    look of different languages, and different scripts, help this? \r\n\r\nI can't
    think of a real functional reason to latinize a Greek typeface. "
  created: '2006-12-01 19:40:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I\u2019ve been sketching a Latin lc set that is subordinate to Greek lc\r\n\r\nCool.\r\nThere
    are two (and really not any others that I\r\ncan think of right now) precedents
    I'd check out:\r\n1) Cadmus, by Carter, from the 70s - on the left, with Skia,
    it's Latin:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cadmuskia_6641.gif]\r\n2) Don't
    know the name, but Michail Semoglou's font. http://www.cannotnot.net/ _\r\n_\r\nI
    might also talk to Victor Gaultney, who has designed\r\nmultiple Greeks of the
    same design for different uses.\r\n_\r\nHere's something on N&P:\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/ad/CR.pdf
    _\r\nBTW, William, if you're here, you might want\r\nto read the bit about even
    color there...\r\n_\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-01 20:10:20'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Oh, excellent, thanks for the PDF. I hadn't seen that before. I had seen
    Carter's earlier Greek, which I think he now has reservations about. \r\n\r\n\"In
    my desire to make a Greek face that was free of Latin influence, I succeeded in
    giving it an archaic look, unwelcomed in the westward-looking Greece of the '70s.\"\r\n\r\nI
    suppose this is less a concern now. Clearly non-native readers should tread cautiously
    when attempting unfamiliar scripts. My attempts to adapt Latin to Greek conventions
    are pretty gratuitous; I'm just flipping the cultural [mis]appropriation, and
    probably not very well either; I'm too familiar with Latin. But it might have
    value elsewhere. "
  created: '2006-12-02 00:10:03'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>I\u2019ve been sketching a Latin lc set that is subordinate to Greek
    lc</cite>\r\n\r\nI have toyed around with the idea. In fact, I've thought about
    a <em>Greek uppercase</em> set that is subordinate to Greek lowercase. No matter
    the weight of tradition and the lack of alternatives, I find the combination of
    latinate Greek uppercase and fully traditional Greek lowercase forms too strange
    to belong to the same script.\r\n\r\n<cite>I can\u2019t think of a real functional
    reason to latinize a Greek typeface.</cite>\r\n\r\nOne practical reason I've encountered
    for making Greek glyphs that are essentially part of the extended Latin alphabet
    is the International Phonetic Alphabet. Instead of having independent Latin and
    Greek scripts, one has a single script that uses Latin and Greek glyphs among
    others side by side. The question might then become whether that counts as designing
    Greek glyphs or extended Latin glyphs, but either way, one should make a 'latinized'
    Greek for the purpose."
  created: '2006-12-02 02:34:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I find the combination of latinate Greek uppercase and fully\r\n> traditional
    Greek lowercase forms too strange to belong to\r\n> the same script.\r\n\r\nBut
    this applies (almost as much) to Latin as well!\r\n\r\nOne key to this puzzle
    however might be... uncial.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-02 04:39:21'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "At least in Latin, the lowercase letters were given uppercase-style serifs,
    giving the two cases some visual harmony despite the disparity in letterforms.\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, I am still not fully comfortable with seeing Greek lowercase letters
    with added serifs, although this is exactly the kind of change that the Latin
    lowercase went through to be matched with the uppercase.\r\n\r\n<cite>One key
    to this puzzle however might be\u2026 uncial.</cite>\r\nThat makes sense. As a
    theoretical exercise, we could go back to the point when the combining of combining
    uncial-derived minuscules with the traditional Roman majuscules was introduced,
    and think of a different solution to making the cases harmonize. Maybe I would
    have preferred that the minuscule letterforms dictate the combining majuscule
    forms, not vice versa, so that the resulting alphabet would have more of an uncial
    flavour."
  created: '2006-12-02 05:43:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Concerning serifs:\r\n1) Why not reduce them in the Greek UC?\r\n2) Does
    \"this is exactly the kind of change that the Latin lowercase went through to
    be matched with the uppercase\" really make sense? The lowercase arose by writing
    the UC forms more quickly; the two cases didn't exist in parallel until much later,
    and the lc had serifs all along.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-02 06:28:03'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>1) Why not reduce them in the Greek UC?</cite>\r\nAn idea I had as
    well, and probably lots of others who have thought about this. I just wonder why
    we don't see that type of a solution more\r\n\r\n<cite>2) Does \u201Cthis is exactly
    the kind of change that the Latin lowercase went through to be matched with the
    uppercase\u201D really make sense? The lowercase arose by writing the UC forms
    more quickly; the two cases didn\u2019t exist in parallel until much later, and
    the lc had serifs all along.</cite>\r\nThe Latin minuscule had serifs, that is,
    in strokes and exit strokes that made sense when writing the forms quickly. But
    it gained inscriptional-style symmetric serifs to harmonize with majuscule forms.
    An uncial-based m might have just the in stroke and the one exit stroke, but an
    m with majuscule-style serifs has those foot serifs on all three feet. That's
    what I meant."
  created: '2006-12-02 07:32:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I just wonder why we don\u2019t see that type of a solution more\r\n\r\nMost
    non-Latin type development seems to be either highly Latinized or highly conservative.
    It's rare to see any understated innovation (which is actually the case with Latin
    as well).\r\n\r\nYour serif history (Missgiggles, correct me if I'm wrong ;-)
    isn't exactly right, I don't think. Although one-sided serifs can be said to be
    more chirographic, two-sided serifs were also pretty much a result of writing.
    You're right that serifs later became \"formalized\" into totally symmetrical
    shapes, but that applies to the UC as well.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-02 14:57:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">William, if you\u2019re here, you might want\r\nto read the bit about even
    color there\u2026\r\n\r\nHrant, as you may remember, I do like your Harrier--which
    I believe is the latin component of Nour here, right?\r\n\r\nPatria itself I think
    has problems. I believe you have written that you developed it by straightening
    Harrier, and I see you also greatly shortened the descenders. I think this approach
    created problems in Patria which were not fully solved, eg with the hook of the
    j crowding the baseline. \r\n\r\nAbout the evenness of color of the two parts
    of each design I can't comment, not knowing Armenian script. As to color of the
    latin of Patria on its own, I would have to see text set at some length to judge
    it properly. But my impression looking just at the alphabet is, as I said, that
    there are unresolved problems.\r\n\r\nHow this relates to vank's effort on Greek,
    I'm not sure, but I think it does relate to the perils of two scripts--which in
    the case of Nour & Patria my impression is that one half of your project worked,
    and the other not so well, at least on the latin side.    "
  created: '2006-12-02 15:38:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Harrier is the subordinate of Nour. Patria (which was indeed derived from
    Nour, but I admit has more issues) is the main Latin style shown in that PDF.
    I was just pointing out that at least some highly accomplished type designers
    have noted Patria's virtues with respect to even color, contrary to what you said
    about that yourself recently. But now you suddenly say \"I would have to see text
    set at some length to judge it properly.\" As I've said before, your personal
    dislike of me causes you to lash out with semi-random negative criticisms, apparently
    not even bothering to remember them, as needed. This is not mensch.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-02 15:59:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">But now you suddenly say \u201CI would have to see text set at some length
    to judge it properly.\u201D \r\n\r\nI have said in the past both that I like Harrier
    and that I think Patria has a lot of problems with color. Since for once you actually
    addressed me as a human being instead of viciously attacking a bogy man of your
    own creation, I was responding in kind in a more gracious manner. Honestly I don't
    think I am going to change my view of Harrier and Patria by seeing more, but I
    am happy to see more text set in it, and am open to changing my mind.\r\n\r\nNeither
    my admiration for Harrier nor my distaste for Patria have anything to do with
    my problems with your lack of civility on Typophile. I was just honestly reporting
    what my eyes tell me. Since you yourself think it has some issues, even though
    you may not use the same terminology, our eyes may be not that different ;) "
  created: '2006-12-02 17:21:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I think Patria has a lot of problems with color.\r\n\r\nAnd I was saying
    that the combination of you not really having seen it (by your own admission)
    and the positive opinion of the likes of Bruno Maag means that the integrity of
    your opinion on the color is suspect, especially in light of your obvious and
    often-stated personal problem with me, which has in fact caused lapses of judgement
    on your part in the past (again by your own admission, if not extending to the
    actual cause). It's OK, you're just a human being, like me - but your claim to
    mensch is arrogant.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-02 18:05:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Furthermore:\r\nThe main problem I myself see in Patria concerns certain
    UC serifs. There are others, like some of the spacing (although it's still better
    than average), the Pilcrow, etc. but the color I'm pretty happy with. Things like
    the weak top-right of the \"k\" and the crowded descender on the \"j\" are intentional,
    and I think -and the CR jury seemed to agree- mild enough. In contrast, your criticism
    of the color, especially in light of the fact that there's really no way to judge
    it without \"really looking at it\"*, is a self-validating reaction motivated
    by the fact that you don't like my opinions about even color. I see your stance
    as highly insular in the overall, so when you say \"I don\u2019t think I am going
    to change my view of Harrier and Patria by seeing more\", you have no idea how
    much I believe you.\r\n\r\n* Which is why type designers value super-hi-res output.\r\n\r\nBut,
    hope against hope, I still hope you see enough logic in my argument to let this
    thread get back on track. You could even offer opinions about Vangelis's design
    since, contrary to what you implied, it's very much possible to have useful opinions
    about fonts is unfamiliar writing systems (certainly in the realm of color for
    example).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-02 18:36:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">you not really having seen it (by your own admission)\r\n\r\nHave you forgotten
    that you sent me, at my request, the PDF you have now posted on Typophile? To
    me this sample is not enough to give a full and fair test, but as I said I doubt
    I will change my mind, especially as you yourself have problems with Patria.\r\n\r\nI
    don't understand why you have to be so defensive. You got an award for Nour &
    Patria, and as I have said for a long time, I like Harrier. You said that J-F
    Porchez also has problems with Patria. So I agree with him and disagree with Bruno
    Maag. So what? \r\n\r\nWhy don't you make up your own mind, and finish the thing
    to your satisfaction and release it? \r\n\r\n>but your claim to mensch is arrogant.\r\n\r\nHrant,
    when did I ever claim to be a 'mentsh'? I aspire to be a mentsh, and strive to
    be. It is up to others to judge how well I succeed. \r\n\r\nPart of being a mentsh
    is what is called 'derech eretz', meaning having skill in personal relationships,
    including good manners and kindness. I don't claim to be a model in either respect.
    I don't know you, but frankly judging by your conduct on Typophile you are not
    the first person I would think of to consult about my progress in these matters.
    \ \r\n\r\nedit: we cross-posted, Hrant. I'll just add that unfortunately I don't
    feel I know Greek script well enough to comment on vank's effort. "
  created: '2006-12-02 18:42:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I don\u2019t understand why you have to be so defensive.\r\n\r\nIt's annoying
    when I'm trying to focus on the untenability of your comments concerning color
    and you try to distract people with things like \"I doubt I will change my mind,
    especially as you yourself have problems with Patria\", even after I've stated
    that I think color is not one of the issues for me. You're weaseling.\r\n\r\n>
    when did I ever claim to be a \u2018mentsh\u2019?\r\n\r\nDunno - when you bought
    the domain name?\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t feel I know Greek script well enough to
    comment on vank\u2019s effort.\r\n\r\nBut for some strange reason not knowing
    enough about Patria hasn't stopped you from commenting on its color, which also
    just happens to be one of the hardest thing to comment on confidently (or I should
    say capably, since self-confidence is not something you lack) in type design.\r\n\r\nI
    remain unfooled.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-02 20:10:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Dunno - when you bought the domain name?\r\n\r\nThe first words on the <a
    href=\"http://www.mentsh.com\">site</a> are \"Welcome to Mentsh.com the site for
    those who aspire to be a 'mentsh' and to raise their children as 'mentshen'\"
    \ \r\n\r\nIt is about ideals, with no claim that I personally always live up to
    them. It implies that I endorse these ideals and strive to live up to them, and
    that is true. \r\n\r\n>for some strange reason not knowing enough about Patria
    hasn\u2019t stopped you from commenting on its color\r\n\r\nThe latin part of
    Patria is a latin script, just as Harrier, the latin part of Nour is. I am not
    commenting on the Armenian, as I don't know Armenian script. I have seen both
    latin alphabets and as I have said like one and not the other. Get over it already. "
  created: '2006-12-02 20:25:11'
- author:
    name: vank
  body: "Hi everybody and thank you for your contributions. \r\n\r\nHrant I totally
    agree with you, one should be aware of the trends and recognize and support the
    ones that actually are good. That\u2019s why I did not choose a Latinized zeta
    or a Latinized final sigma on the design. Many thanks anyway. :-) \r\n\r\nBrian,
    my sole intention has been to design a version for use as is. Whether the project
    members will eventually decide upon the replacement of the existing version or
    not is a whole other subject, yet I am definitely not designing something from
    which certain glyphs would be taken and compiled with existing to constitute the
    Greek version of DejaVu. \r\n\r\n>Let me explain. Who needs the Greek glyphs in
    a multilingual open >source font like DejaVu Serif? I think most users will fall
    under one >of three categories:\r\n>1. Greek speakers.\r\n>2. Scholars who deal
    with Ancient or Mediaeval Greek.\r\n>3. Those who need the odd Greek glyphs now
    and then for technical >symbols.\r\n\r\nNow that\u2019s great input! Sincere thanks
    for it. I have to admit that, so far, I was considering mainly the first category.
    It was good being reminded I should consider the third as well. Still, Greek glyphs
    to be used as technical symbols should almost always be italics, hence they should
    be separately designed. It's on purpose that I don\u2019t refer to the second
    category by the way. There are already wonderful, freeware typefaces that perfectly
    serve such needs; the releases of the Greek Font Society. On the other hand, I,
    myself, was aiming on a general purpose contemporary Greek design that would be
    to some extend usable in a variety of applications, from on-screen reading to
    typesetting one\u2019s thesis.  \r\n\r\nRegarding some other posts on the thread,
    I feel that there\u2019s a tendency to forget that Greek language is not a museum
    exhibit; it\u2019s a \u201Cliving language\u201D and, as such, subject to changes
    and novelties. Discussion on whether Greek glyphs should have serifs or not, is,
    to my eyes, equivalent to asking whether glyphs with accentuation marks (\u201Ctonos\u201D)
    or lc should be included; were they used in classical Greece? No. Why use them
    now then, they were \u201Cnovelties\u201D introduced later on. In a similar manner,
    what\u2019s the point of discussing on whether \u201Ceta\u201D should have a descender?
    It could have yes, it could as well not have. Both forms can be seen in Greece
    nowadays with the latter (no descender) being way more common in typefaces designed
    by Greek designers. So, who knows if both alternatives will still be used in 30
    or 50 years (I bet they will be)! So what? Today, is a an eta without descender
    equally or even more usable than an eta with descender in Greece? Most probably
    yes. Do we have open type? Can we include both etas? Why don't we and let one
    choose what they like?\r\n\r\nThe current version is the one shown \r\n<a href=\"http://osmosisnet.com/vkarag/DejaVuSerif_new2.pdf\">here</a>\r\n
    \r\nQuite some changes have taken place. I might have displeased someones with
    my \"xi\". I eventually chose a more \"consistent\" form, compared to the previous
    version. Some other glyphs have changed as well. The result is definitely far
    from being considered all smooth and fine-tuned, but i think it starts getting
    there.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-03 08:44:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The Greek script is very much a living thing, and so is Latin. I myself have
    proposed reforms to the Latin script. So at least for me it's not about conservatism.
    But it is about sensitivity, to things beyond the whims of personal expression
    and mere style. So for example when you ask \"what's the point of discussing on
    whether 'eta' should have a descender?\" I would say that the point is to know
    the effects of such a decision, not least concerning the health of Greek culture
    as well as the readability of the resultant design. Also, you can't blindly do
    to Greek what people typically do to Latin - not just because there are structural
    differences but because the users of Greek and Latin need different things, hence
    the scripts need different things. The case with Greek isn't so dramatic, but
    for some scripts -like Armenian- the danger of eventual total assimilation into
    larger cultures is a very good reason to be extra careful and not give in to expressive
    whims, instead channeling one's expression to help one's culture, not to mention
    make something functional, not just abstractly pretty.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-03 16:58:08'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Vangelis, I like the changes you made. Specifically in the lowercase, the
    chi is more dynamic, the descenders look better without serifs, and the letterform
    for beta is more in accordance with the rest of the alphabet.\r\n\r\nThe lowercase
    theta needs to resolve some dark spot issues, perhaps by making the middle stroke
    a touch thinner.\r\n\r\nHrant, you say it's not about conservatism but sensitivity.
    I share those reasons, so I guess our differences in opinion (I don't find the
    supposed latinization in the design of Greek minuscules as offensive) come from
    different ideas of cultural authenticity.\r\n\r\nAttending to cultural needs is
    important, but most often such an intention finds the easy expression in the avoidance
    of any similarity with the product of another 'threatening' culture. A good topic
    that gives many fascinating examples is orthography reforms in European alphabets,
    for example in Czech where differences from Polish orthography were deliberately
    introduced to emphasize cultural difference. This tendancy is not a bad thing
    in itself, but if it becomes prescriptive so that any resemblance to a product
    from a threatening culture becomes reason enough for its rejection, then you're
    overdoing it.\r\n\r\nI think Hrant won't accept what he perceives as latinization
    to be culturally authentic. For me, the fact that such a style of Greek type is
    widely accepted as standard for Greek speakers is enough to accept it as culturally
    authentic.\r\n\r\nBy the way, I've seen Greeks who don't like the 'latinized'
    style (especially oversees Greeks), but have never found a non-Greek who approved
    of it (not that I've seen that many people express an opinion on this matter).
    I think it just goes to show that Westerners judge Modern Greek culture with the
    huge expectations coming from idealized notions of Classical glory, and tend to
    label anything that fails to conform to such notions as devaluations. This is
    an unfair burden for Greeks. I'd rather trust them to do what they choose to do
    with what is in fact <em>their</em> culture and not hold them to unreasonable
    expectations based on what we think they should do."
  created: '2006-12-04 06:07:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The issue of cultural authenticity is hyper-complex, and it's not surprising
    to find large differences of opinion even among people who care about nurturing
    it. In my book simply caring about it is already a big deal. Even people who violate
    it aren't necessarily bad, as long as they know they're doing it - it's the total
    oblivion to it, which is sadly very common, that makes me angry. For example in
    type design when somebody copies formalistic attributes from one script to another
    for the sake of \"consistency\" with no regard -or even disdain- for much else,
    that's Bad.\r\n\r\n> most often such an intention finds the easy expression in\r\n>
    the avoidance of any similarity with the product of another\r\n> \u2018threatening\u2019
    culture.\r\n\r\nIndeed, and this is a poor substitute for the intelligent preservation
    of cultural identity. But your placing of \"threatening\" in quotes can be seen
    as dismissive of very real threats out there, sometimes in fact documented (such
    as with Benjamin Franklin, who actively thought of ways to assimilate Jews into
    US culture) but much more often covertly, or \"subliminally\".\r\n\r\n> the fact
    that such a style of Greek type is widely\r\n> accepted as standard for Greek
    speakers is enough\r\n> to accept it as culturally authentic.\r\n\r\nConscious
    public perception is undoubtedly a huge element in cultural autheticity, but since
    so much (I would say half) of our reality is subconscious I think this attitude
    is superficial. It's really much more complex than that, and we shouldn't succumb
    to the allure of over-simplifying it.\r\n\r\nAlso, I personally think that authenticity
    can be over-played. As I said I'm not a conservative, so to me more important
    that what's been authentic is what should be authentic. Anything out there plays
    a part in the future - and that's where we're headed! In the end it's not a culture
    itself that's important, it's the users of that culture, and the richness they
    contribute to life.\r\n\r\n> have never found a non-Greek who approved of it\r\n\r\nAlthough
    I certainly agree that the \"classical burden\" is out there (especially for Greeks)
    and is unjust, this is still no excuse for knee-jerk reactions (e.g. blind Latinization)
    like we saw in the 90s against Modernism (reminding here that I can't stand Modernism).
    Also, there certainly are non-natives who approve of Latinization, like Ludwig
    right here and Jan van Krimpen more famously. And if you read Morison's intro
    to Schonfield's book about reforming Hebrew, you might share the shiver in the
    spine that I felt.\r\n\r\nI also don't agree with the them-us dichotomy. We're
    all part of this world, and everybody is at least a tiny bit Greek. We should
    all care what happens.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-04 18:06:32'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: ">  I also don\u2019t agree with the them-us dichotomy. We\u2019re all part\r\n>
    of this world, and everybody is at least a tiny bit Greek.\r\n\r\nAnd this is
    precisely why I think there is no such thing as latinisation, but, instead, as
    I explained above, one common characteristic of type, deriving from its use as
    moveable, printable and reusable letterforms. The more a typeface design has this
    formal characteristic, the more it is type in the true sense. The Latin alphabet
    has this characteristic more than any other alphabet, not because Western culture
    is superior, but simply because the development of the Latin alphabet was influenced
    by its use in print more than any other alphabet.\r\n\r\nI feel a bit Greek, yes.
    Because I may happily take part in the inheritance of the great and universal
    contributions Greek culture has made to mankind's culture\u2014amongst which\u2026
    the alphabet.\r\n\r\nI have the impression you postmodernists are the ones who
    continually hammer on the them\u2013us dichotomy: them, the bad, imperialistic
    Westerners, with their holistic ideology, against us, the oppressed minorities
    whose culture is taken from them."
  created: '2006-12-04 23:07:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There are entire rich worlds between false\r\ndichotomies and the large gray
    Modernist blob.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-05 00:10:09'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Just a note: I'm almost sure Monotype Gill Sans Dual Greek is not by Eric
    Gill. Maybe Gill can't be considered an \"authority\" as a \"sophisticate\" text
    type designer. Surely he did know what he was doing. A thing a good 50% of people
    doing \"fonts\" today don't. :)\r\n\r\nThe more recent Gill Sans Hellenic was
    designed by Cannibal Fonts' Hector Haralambous.\r\n\r\nLudwing: Hrant may have
    a taste for provocative words, but surely he's not acting as a stereotype. Plus,
    he's quite lovable, more or less like Astro Boy (\u9244\u8155\u30A2\u30C8\u30E0
    a.k.a. Tetsuwan Atomu for cultural purists). :)"
  created: '2006-12-10 22:02:55'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "piccic \u2014 Yes, he is. I do like his clear-cut opinions, and he seems
    to be one of the few to have opinions for his own at all. But they do are stereotypes
    sometimes, especially when he conforms to capitalist logic and pomo rhetorics
    about cultural identity (which perfectly fit together, by the way).\r\n\r\nThanks
    for seconding me on Gill being an authority. Read the man, learn to know his life
    as an artist and thinker. Look at the several ingenious features of his typefaces.
    And then dare to not call him an authority again. I'll look if I can find something
    on his authorship of the Greek sorts."
  created: '2006-12-11 00:50:52'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Well, I fear everyone of us falls victim of stereotyping here and there,
    if we are not careful. I agree with you that maybe the cultural considerations
    over type design are carried to an excessive extent, when people argue about \"autenticity\",
    because we can't deny what historically has been the development of typography.
    The first Greek and Arabic types were cut in Italy. Most of Arabic typography
    is still strongly tied to calligraphy. It would have happened probably in a similar
    way with Latin letters if Arabic had been the language spoken all over Europe
    during all these centuries.\r\nOf course, Hrant is entirely right about this way
    of applying serifs to greek capitals (and even the weight modulation): it seems
    arbitrary but is adopted often by Greek designers as well.\r\n\r\nSo, while I
    understand and agree with Hrant's defense of cultures preserved throughout work,
    I can only remember that what survives is not always the best, and if a language
    has to die, it dies.\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-11 13:35:46'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"Thanks for seconding me on Gill being an authority. Read the man, learn
    to know his life as an artist and thinker. Look at the several ingenious features
    of his typefaces. And then dare to not call him an authority again. I\u2019ll
    look if I can find something on his authorship of the Greek sorts.\"\r\n\r\nLudwig,
    you may want to read up on the actual genesis of Gill Sans. You can call Gill
    an authority on many things, but not on type design (which was your original statement). "
  created: '2006-12-12 07:24:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> conforms to capitalist logic\r\n\r\n?!\r\n\r\nGill: what Carl seems to
    be alluding to (for example the fact that he <cite>never did any of the spacing)</cite>
    has great relevance. But I still think he had a supreme talent applicable to type
    design which put him above most every \"de facto\" type designer. Nonetheless,
    we're talking about non-Latin type here, and there's a qualitative difference:
    you either have nativity, or you need to develop it, and many people don't (even
    if they realize its importance, which I think Gill did). Others, like JvK, simply
    can't develop it because they're cultural bigots (and maybe worse), and no matter
    how nice their \"native\" type designs are they can never get over producing non-Latin
    fonts that are essentially crap.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-12 17:13:41'
date: '2006-11-25 16:43:38'
files:
- filename: DejaVuSerif.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/DejaVuSerif.pdf
node_type: forum
title: A proposal for new version of Greek glyphs for DejaVu Serif

---
