---
author:
  name: Jared Benson
  picture: 109417
body: "We're starting up a new \"To Do\" list for 2007 for Typophile, and want to
  make sure we've got your input. What improvements or enhancements would you like
  to see that would make Typophile a better experience? \r\n\r\n//jb\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Is there a way to prevent it from disappearing for days on end, on a regular
    basis?
  created: '2006-11-27 07:31:25'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'Gulp. Here''s an easier one: include the names of posters in the RSS feeds.'
  created: '2006-11-27 07:33:21'
- author:
    name: noftus
    picture: 111246
  body: "fundamental:\r\n- reduce website downtime!\r\n\r\nnice to have:\r\n- database
    of typeface pairings: eg \"what goes well with X\""
  created: '2006-11-27 07:55:41'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: Make Navigation easier by adding "?from=00" to the created node as explained
    <a href="http://typophile.com/node/28383?from=24&comments_per_page=50">here</a>
  created: '2006-11-27 08:29:07'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Put the 'next page' 'last page' navigation items on top of the page too.
    Now we always have to scroll to the very bottom of the page to access those.\r\n\r\nMight
    there be a possibility to add a button which allows you to switch from \"first
    post on top of the page\" to \"last post on top of the page\"?\r\n\r\n> <em>database
    of typeface pairings: eg \u201Cwhat goes well with X\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nErrr...
    this hasn't got anything to do with website functionality. It's up to us users
    to provide this kind of content, not Typophile. Please stick to functionality
    issues or this thread is going to become <em>very</em> messy."
  children:
  - author:
      name: noftus
      picture: 111246
    body: "<cite> > Errr\u2026 this hasn\u2019t got anything to do with website functionality.
      It\u2019s up to us users to provide this kind of content, not Typophile. Please
      stick to functionality issues or this thread is going to become very messy.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes
      we are fully aware users provide this content. It is up to a website to provide
      functionality to manage this user knowledge- just like a wiki manages knowledge.\r\n\r\nI'm
      sorry, the original post did not and does not mention the word functionality,
      and appears to invite \"improvements and enhancements\". Why shoot down ideas
      in a thread which invites ideas? If the original thread is worded incorrectly,
      please moderate or ammend it."
    created: '2006-11-27 10:14:50'
  created: '2006-11-27 08:38:06'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Oh, do you still have my list for the Type ID Board?
  created: '2006-11-27 08:39:02'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture-1_5051.gif]\r\n\r\nWhy does the
    critique section get the red-headed step-child treatment? Plus, there's a little
    section in there on \"Typography\" that has nothing to do with \"typefaces on
    the chopping block.\"\r\n\r\nJust a question..."
  created: '2006-11-27 08:51:40'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Put the \u2018next page\u2019 \u2018last page\u2019 navigation items
    on top of the page too. Now we always have to scroll to the very bottom of the
    page to access those. & \u201Cfirst post on top of the page\u201D to \u201Clast
    post on top of the page\u201D?</cite>\r\n\r\nExactly! \r\n\r\nMore links around
    to each of the heavily used areas too. eg:\r\n\r\nUnder \"Home \xBB forums \xBB
    General Discussions\" we could have:\r\n [ Post a new topic | My topics | Active
    topics ] and General Discussions, Design, Critique, Build, Release, Type ID Board,
    Special Interest Groups and to make it the BOMB you could have text links to the
    critique areas too. I know it seems like alot but it would cut the number of page
    loads I give the site by 1/2 to 2/3. And it would make me so happy!\r\n\r\nOh!
    And thank you very much for asking!\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-27 08:52:38'
- author:
    name: AnalogSystm
    picture: 111143
  body: "Maybe stop using Flash for the 3 columns on the fontpage.\r\nHottest, Newest,
    Handpicked.\r\n\r\nWould be grest to be able to Apple+Click links for us using
    browsertabs\r\nNot to mention that the use of Flash here is pointless ;) \r\n\r\n\r\n---\r\nOscar
    Bjarna\r\nhttp://analog.sys.is"
  created: '2006-11-27 09:22:19'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "<strong>Improve the Search feature</strong> \u2014 I have the impression
    only the first page of a thread is searched after when searching at a given keyword
    or string.The Search function is the only way to access the Archives in a precise
    way and hence is of crucial importance.\r\n\r\n<strong>Direct access to ongoing
    discussion</strong> \u2014 It might be useful to give direct access to the latest
    post on Typophile, i.e. the post(s) that is (are) showing in the background of
    the homepage (behind the three columns)."
  created: '2006-11-27 11:11:05'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>I\u2019m sorry, the original post did not and does not mention the
    word functionality, and appears to invite \u201Cimprovements and enhancements\u201D.
    Why shoot down ideas in a thread which invites ideas? If the original thread is
    worded incorrectly, please moderate or ammend it.</em>\r\n\r\nWe clearly understood
    the original question differently. Maybe start up a new thread in General Discussions
    with your request about typeface pairings, so we can follow up on that? :^)"
  created: '2006-11-27 14:21:51'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I still can't see any of the thread titles when viewing the actual thread.
    This can make navigating the site confusing when one uses tabs.\r\n\r\nI assume
    it's either a Flash or Firefox issue (or combination thereof).\r\n\r\nSmall bug,
    but when URLs are listed on multiple lines right after each other, only the last
    one is clickable.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-27 14:36:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "There are a number of suggestions not yet implemented that were in the 'bug'
    thread when Typophile 5 was in Beta. \r\n\r\nSome that I remember, in two categories:\r\n\r\nNAVIGATION
    TO NEW POSTS\r\n\r\n1. Have the page navigation at the top as well as the bottom.
    Many suggested this earlier including me; it is renewed above. I would think this
    would be easy to implement. \r\n\r\n2. Mark Simonson suggested to include in the
    'all recent' results the categorization of posts by menu area. Addicts like me
    frequently use this as a button on our browser bar, and that category information
    would be helpful. \r\n\r\n3. Someone recently pointed out that clicking on the
    'new' highlight on the right brings one to new posts--almost. It brings you to
    the last new post if there is only one page. Otherwise it brings you to the first
    page. If this were fully functional--bringing you to the first new posting in
    a thread--it would be a big improvement for the frequent visitor.\r\n\r\nMENU
    IMPROVEMENT     \r\n\r\n1. Eliminate sub-menus, so the all menu items show updates.
    How to do this while keeping the same number of menu items: \r\n\r\n1A. Combine
    the Build and Release categories into one top-level. (Release is much less active
    than Build.)\r\n\r\n1B. Put all the Critiques into two categories: Type Design
    and Logo/Corporate ID. --The latter has many more postings than the other critique
    categories.\r\nThis would put everything on one menu level, and then show updates.
    \r\n\r\n2. (New suggestion) The 'special interest' area seems to have little activity.
    A possible better use is to make it one category: 'Typographic Education: Teachers
    and Students.'  \r\n\r\n2A This category could have a 'Frequently asked novice
    questions' with answers at the top. Eg: what are best books and web sites for
    beginners to learn about typography and type design. \r\n\r\n2B This category
    could also have at the top list of 'Resources for teachers' list, eg links to
    the sites of teacher Mark Jamra, James Craig, Ellen Lupton. \r\n\r\nOf course,
    it would be good to have a mechanism for updates of both the novice student and
    teacher lists. Edit: perhaps the Wiki would be  a good device for both lists,
    and keeping them updated.  \r\n\r\nI am not saying that all student questions
    should be shunted to this category, but those that are clearly asking for homework
    and term project help could be shifted to this category by moderators. They would
    still get help, but people could then choose whether they want to be involved
    in this--there have been complaints on this score before on a number of threads.
    \r\n\r\nCONTRAST\r\n\r\nOh, and one more. My pet peeve: put white or at least
    a lighter grey behind the text on the postings. Contrast (short of dazzle) increases
    readability. \r\n\r\nPS\r\n\r\nIf you have to prioritize to one or two improvements,
    in another week  you might put up a survey question what changes people most want.
    \r\n\r\nOh, and Typophile is great. Yay hooray!"
  created: '2006-11-27 15:29:31'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite>but people could then chose whether they want to be involved in this</cite>\r\nAre
    you saying that people don't have the choice now?"
  created: '2006-11-27 15:50:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Are you saying that people don\u2019t have the choice now?\r\n\r\nNo, of
    course they have a choice. I didn't put it well. What I meant is that people who
    don't even want to look at these novice questions--and several have written to
    this effect--would be free to ignore the whole category and spend not time on
    it. Those who want to help students could navigate there. "
  created: '2006-11-27 15:58:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "First: thanks.\r\n\r\nThe big -and I mean BIG- two:\r\n1) Please fix the
    search/archives. Please. It's very discouraging\r\nto type gobs for years and
    then not be able to access any of it.\r\n2) Revive emailing of posts. If you don't
    want to (liability issues? I understand\r\nI guess) then please make the RSS work
    for real real. If you don't do that either,\r\nthen in the Tracker please mark
    the section (like \"Type ID\") the thread is in.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-27 16:33:22'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> please make the RSS work for real real.\r\n\r\nCan you elaborate? It's
    doing fine for me, except for a few additions like the poster's name and an RSS
    feed for the user tracker page."
  created: '2006-11-27 18:36:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Frankly I haven't fooled with it enough to be sure, but:\r\nDo you get a
    RSS item* for every single post made?\r\n\r\n* I'm sure that's not the term, but
    you know what I mean.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-27 19:10:10'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "A couple of stickers for me:\r\n\r\n1) Regarding search, allow us to sort
    the results by recency. I often want to find the latest posts regarding an ongoing
    topic or theme.\r\n\r\n2) Nuke the on-page Instant Messenger. Unless the duplicated
    messages and post-back page loads can be eliminated. I think a site-wide shout
    box (private and/or public) is a much better implementation of this. Perhaps some
    AJAX-iness could be applied to this feature?"
  created: '2006-11-27 19:26:14'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Do you get a RSS item* for every single post made?</em>\r\n\r\nif i understand
    correctly, you can if you subscribe to the rss feed to a particular thread. to
    do so, just click on the rss link at the bottom of the initial post."
  created: '2006-11-27 19:29:05'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: Also the input field for the Instant Messenger is way too small. The people
    demand a textfield!
  created: '2006-11-27 19:32:31'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "Include a proper <code>&lt;link&gt;</code> declaration for the RSS feed in
    the header of every page. This way you can easily navigate, view and bookmark
    the feed version of any thread in browsers that support integrated feed readers.\r\n\r\n<code>&lt;link
    rel=\"alternate\" type=\"application/rss+xml\" title=\"RSS\" href=\"http://typophile.com/threadrss/29729\"
    /&gt;</code>"
  created: '2006-11-27 19:39:12'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Oh, I'd also like to echo the comments regarding 'bubbling up' the critique
    section to the top level.
  created: '2006-11-27 20:04:22'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>1B. Put all the Critiques into two categories: Type Design and Logo/Corporate
    ID. \u2014The latter has many more postings than the other critique categories.\r\nThis
    would put everything on one menu level, and then show updates.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think the \"typography\" section of Critiques would be used more if it were given
    more space. Currently, a lot of people post designs and things into <code>Forums>Design</code>
    for critique, rather than the <code>Forums > Critique > Typography / Composition</code>
    section.\r\n\r\nNow, if you were to break off an entire forum just for typographic
    education, that might be a place to put it. I personally think it should be integrated
    more into the Design Forum, but hey, whatever."
  created: '2006-11-27 20:17:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you can if you subscribe to the rss feed to a particular thread.\r\n\r\nToo
    much work/attention required.\r\n\r\nBTW, I've found the IM to be quite useful.\r\nThe
    shoutbox can be (in fact was) pretty\r\nuseful too, but in a totally different
    way.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-27 20:37:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Currently, a lot of people post designs and things into Forums>Design for
    critique, rather than the Forums > Critique > Typography / Composition section.\r\n\r\nYes,
    my proposal just reflects the reality of what is going on, and puts it upfront
    in the menu structure.  \r\n\r\nThe basic thing is that the forum sub-menus should
    be eliminated--it seems from the low traffic that they are an extraneous layer--one
    layer too many for navigation. "
  created: '2006-11-27 20:40:56'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "The RSS feed for all new threads in every category (as far as I know) is:
    http://typophile.com/rss\r\n\r\nThis, combined one's <a href=\"http://typophile.com/user/103/track\">User
    Tracking page</a> (which needs a feed, as I mentioned before), is all one needs
    to thoroughly stalk all Typophile activity.\r\n\r\nIf you'd like to track a thread
    to which you haven't contributed, you can subscribe to it's specific RSS feed
    at the bottom of the first post:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SafariScreenSnapz004_6048.png]"
  created: '2006-11-27 20:52:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> http://typophile.com/rss\r\n\r\nI tried to get RSS working in the past,
    and the net result was having to install new apps that I never used, something
    that annoys me no end, so allow me to make sure by asking: is that a \"master\"
    feed that I can subscribe to once and get everything \"delivered\"? But if so,
    why would I still need the tracking page?\r\n\r\nAlso: is there a way to exclude
    certain subfeeds (like Type ID) from the master feed?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-27 20:59:43'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> But if so, why would you then need the tracking page?\r\n\r\nThe general
    RSS only tracks new threads (that is: the first post in each new topic). RSS that
    tracks every post would be very hefty indeed, but I understand the desire for
    completeness."
  created: '2006-11-27 21:07:59'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: Some sort of RSS feed management tool within your profile setting might be
    a handy addition. For example, blending multiple feeds into a single aggregated
    feed. Or simply viewing at a glance which feeds you've subscribed to. Wish lists
    are for wishes, right?
  created: '2006-11-27 21:10:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There you go. Basically it doesn't work.\r\n\r\nMore than completeness (I
    no longer read everything) it's a matter of efficiency: it's a pain to manually
    subscribe to things when all I need to do is gloss over a given post (with its
    section name and subject heading) and decide if it's worth enough. Since interesting
    digressions are the norm here, individual posts are worth more than where they
    are.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-27 21:12:58'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I apologize if this isn't what you are soliciting, but I belive it is an
    issue that will have to be addressed eventually: Typophile has become a major
    information hub for type-related topics (Bravo!). In that role, it has to evolve
    to continue providing so much to so many. It's clear from other posts that some
    topics or threads are buried, and some are too prominent. It's also clear that
    some topics or headings are trafficked much more heavily than others. \r\n\r\nMy
    suggestion is basically: re-organize the front page and \"Forums\" page to accomodate
    the changing uses we've discovered for Typophile. For example; I'd put Type ID,
    Free Fonts, Student Topics, Critiques, Designing Typefaces, and Using Type* at
    the top, most prominent, since they are the busiest areas that receive the most
    repeat questions. All critique areas should be handled the same, and it should
    be structurally clear that a critique posting should not go in any other area.
    Essentially I am saying: analyze how Typophile is used, and re-org it to make
    those pathways most intuitive, immediate, clear and distinguishable to everyone,
    not just lifer type nerds.\r\n\r\n\"Hottest\", \"Wettest\", \"Meanest\" \"Handpicked\"
    or whatever could be underneath those basic categories, since they represent digested
    versions of all the different areas. Right now, there's some opacity in those
    lists since the latest poster and time aren't shown, so I find them less crucial
    to show at the top. \r\n\r\nI wouldn't suggest this if I didn't think Typophile
    was worth the effort, and again, I think this kind of evolution is inescapable.
    \r\n\r\n*Notice my simpler, clearer laymens' terms. Though they aren't considered
    industry terms, they clarify distinctions that we've all noticed aren't intuitive
    to all users of Typophile. For additional clarity, the taglines under each section
    can be more informative, literal, specific:\r\n\r\nCRITIQUE\r\nSubmit in-progress
    designs for feedback\r\n\r\nA chopping block might not mean the same thing in
    Romania, Greece, Venezuela and France.  ;)\r\n\r\nThe one thing I would add In
    a prominent place: \"Type Selection Help\", which could be everything from our
    lists of condensed sans, Garamond versions, Book types, Superfamilies, or whatever
    comparison tools people need to help them select type. There is a steady stream
    of posts asking for type recommendations, and it deserves its own area, complete
    with some methods of showing or linking to samples."
  created: '2006-11-27 23:05:52'
- author:
    name: duncan
    picture: 111159
  body: "What if there were some sort of automated way to title posts? Perhaps it
    should be optional, but that could be a way to cut down on post-title-ambiguity.\r\n\r\nJust
    throwing the idea out there.\r\n\r\nDuncan"
  created: '2006-11-27 23:11:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "My post above (9:29 am), also made suggestions like Carl's for reorganizing
    the menu list, with the same goal: reflect the actual use of typophile in the
    structure.\r\n\r\nIf others also like the idea of renovating the menu, and it
    is technically feasable and within the time Christian Robertson or whomever works
    on it is willing to put in, you could maybe solict brainstorming suggestions on
    the best items for the menu. "
  created: '2006-11-27 23:16:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Reflecting actual use is great.\r\nPromoting certain uses might be even greater.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-28 01:34:56'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: Like some others have mentioned, more links would be good. I would especially
    like some at the bottom of each page, as right now, to click "Home," the forum
    that I'm in, or to check my account, I have to scroll all the way back to the
    top of the page. It actually wouldn't be bad if there were a few blocks of links
    at intervals right of the posts in a thread, so that the need to scroll to go
    somewhere else would be minimized. Hope I'm being more or less clear.
  created: '2006-11-28 01:49:34'
- author:
    name: Manlio Napoli
    picture: 111362
  body: Fix internal broken links in old threads (I'm asking too much, I know)
  created: '2006-11-28 08:19:22'
- author:
    name: brew
    picture: 109673
  body: "Add a persistent menu for the forums on each page. Like this:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/typophile_menu_5225.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\n(for
    those interested, I've written a <a href=\"http://greasemonkey.mozdev.org/\">Greasemonkey</a>
    for the Firefox browser that adds this menu. You can get it here: <a href=\"http://times-new-roman.com/dreamless/typophile-menu.user.js\">typophile-menu.user.js</a>.)\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-28 09:27:56'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "how about have a non-flash alternative to the frontpage for those who can't
    view flash. Like me on my 8525 phone trying to read posts :P\r\n\r\nOh and using
    a different method for flash to get rid of the click to activate.\r\n\r\nOh and
    changing the search filter for tracking my account so it doesn't take forever
    to come up with all of the results. Maybe it would only track like the latest
    15 or something.\r\n\r\n*That's pretty sweet Brew. Too bad im on IE :S"
  created: '2006-11-28 10:49:24'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Agree with put navigation (for multiple pages) at the top. Furthermore, if
    you add a post to any page other than the first, it currently takes you back to
    the first page of the thread. I think you should be returned to where you left
    off.\r\n\r\nFor IM's - first of all there should be a way to reply to the IM without
    having to go to the bottom of the page. Second, they crop up 2, 3 or 4 times at
    the top of the page. Third, when you delete them it takes you to the Typophile
    homepage rather than the page you were on. Fourth, the space for typing is absurdly
    small.\r\n\r\nI also think the \"Logos/Corporate ID Design\" and \"Typography/Composition\"
    don't belong in Critique - at least not as it is currently described (typefaces
    on the chopping block). For years I thought that section was only for feedback
    on fonts. I had no idea until recently that there were designs up there as well.
    I think this needs to be at least clarified if not changed."
  created: '2006-11-28 17:44:48'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "Also: http://typophile.com/node/20445\r\n\r\nI forgot about the italics one
    for instance."
  created: '2006-11-28 20:21:11'
- author:
    name: Pierre-Luc Auclair
  body: "Make threads easy to print. \r\n\r\nLike a CSS spreadsheet just for paper.
    Remove the menubar/sponsor thing (or send it where it's not in the way)it's useless
    information. Also the text at print is <strong>way</strong> too small, and not
    wide enough. I know you'll say too wide hinders reading but it's not a book, and
    I don't wanna spend 10 pages where I could just use 5."
  created: '2006-11-29 03:07:22'
- author:
    name: skeetone
    picture: 111380
  body: "I think that all that needed to be said has now been said by everyone above...I
    would just like to ask you people something that is kindof related to this perhaps..\r\n\r\nMy
    typophile widget shows errors most of the times when I want to check it....is
    that something with the code, or something with the link to the site?\r\nCan I
    fix that myself somehow?\r\n\r\nJust curious, because I have a new iMac 20\" and
    was just wondering if it was a typophile error or my iMac not being able to properly
    handle the widget for some reason..\r\n\r\ndav."
  created: '2006-11-29 09:48:25'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Dav.\r\nThe Typophile widget keeps crashing or showing errors in my mac,
    too, so I suppose it's not a local problem with your iMac. My guess is, that the
    widget is somehow faulty, since it's the only one crashing."
  created: '2006-11-29 10:08:01'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "a couple suggestions/comments:\r\nmaybe since navigation is an issue, the
    bar on the right can have a floating div so that it stays put even when the rest
    of the page is scrolled up or down.\r\ni miss the old front page and how dynamic
    it was in terms of typography with the type gallery. I mean Mercury is REALLY
    nice, but i'd love to see something fresh each time i visit the home page. i also
    don't like that i can't right-click links on the front page so in my bookmarks
    i link right to the tracker page.\r\nRe answers to Frequently Asked Questions:
    There is already a [[FAQs]] section in the wiki, which i believe is a better place
    to house this type of information than a thread. There is no wiki page for [[Typeface
    Pairings]] (yet), but I feel that the wiki format is best for massing this type
    of info in a concise manner instead of having to dig through multiple threads,
    or even one monster thread to find relavent info."
  created: '2006-11-29 13:39:18'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "It would be nice if the sub forum was visible on Recent Posts. Especially
    the id threads have strange subjects quite often. What if the left column read
    \u201CIdentification topic\u201D, \u201CCritique topic\u201D or \u201CGeneral
    topic\u201D instead of \u201CForum topic\u201D?\r\n\r\nGenerally, navigating around
    Typophile takes too many clicks at the moment."
  created: '2006-11-29 19:57:35'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Would it be possible to make the next forum topic option stay within the
    forum? Currently a topic that has been moved is still accessed by the next topic
    option so you jump to another forum, which can be interesting in a magical mystery
    tour kind of way but can be a little annoying.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-11-30 14:54:01'
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: 'Regarding the widget: I coded that myself, and I''m a designer, not a developer.
    If any savvy widget-mongers among us can isolate the bug and fix it, we''ll happily
    post the new version for all to download. Thanks-'
  created: '2006-11-30 15:38:14'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: About the widget, still. I haven't checked if the crashes occure only when
    Typophile is down. That could explane it, couldn't it?
  created: '2006-11-30 18:14:22'
- author:
    name: wnf
  body: "Please, can you work the forum to provide \"alerts/email automatic notification\"
    when someone replies to your thread.\r\n\r\nBig thanks!"
  created: '2006-11-30 22:51:52'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I don't know if this is possible, but it might be nice to have a little time
    stamp at the corner - Yahoo does this - so you know when you last refreshed the
    page. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/yahoo_6638.jpg]
  created: '2006-12-01 19:35:38'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Quoting should be easier. At least blockquote should be enabled.\r\n\r\nPost
    numbers could be visible for easier reference. Now people refer to the date of
    the post. Additionally, every post could have an html id, which would make it
    possible to link to a specific post in a thread (http://typophile.com/node/29729#comment-53).
    It would be nice if these links could take you to the right page automatically."
  created: '2006-12-01 19:58:11'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: as for html that should be available, i'd push for the breaking return to
    work!
  created: '2006-12-01 21:06:46'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Here's a good one:\r\nMarking edited posts as <strong>\"EDIT\"</strong>.\r\n\r\nThat
    should keep people honest.\r\n\r\nMaybe even divide it: \r\n\"Edited by moderator\"
    or \"Edited by poster\" or whatever."
  created: '2006-12-01 21:48:20'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I think for the most part moderators have let people know whey they did the
    deed.
  created: '2006-12-01 21:56:39'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Editing your own posts isn't dishonest.
  created: '2006-12-02 15:32:05'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "<cite>Put the \u2018next page\u2019 \u2018last page\u2019 navigation items
    on top of the page too. Now we always have to scroll to the very bottom of the
    page to access those. & \u201Cfirst post on top of the page\u201D to \u201Clast
    post on top of the page\u201D?</cite>\r\n\r\nGreat suggestion, will make reading
    through long threads much faster. \r\n\r\nI would propose additional thing that
    I used to on some other sites. Right now, \"Last reply\" column on forum page
    contains a link to user's profile. It will be much beter to change this to have
    a link to this last post itself. \r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey"
  created: '2006-12-02 23:19:27'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>Editing your own posts isn\u2019t dishonest.</cite>\r\nNo, it's not.
    I edit spelling and such all the time. But some people will say something jackass,
    have a ton of people reply to that effect, then change the original post so that
    the repliers seem way out of line. \r\n\r\nRecanting and apologising are different
    than making it seem that you never said anything dumb to begin with. I think it
    kills the spirit of some threads, that's all.\r\n \r\nI meant honest more as a
    courtesy thing. We should each do it anyway when we edit for anything other than
    speling(sic), but some don't.\r\n\r\nIt's just an idea.\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-03 17:04:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dan, have you noticed cover-up editing happening a lot? I never check, so
    I don't know. And that one time Simon caught mondoB editing his criticism of Carter
    concerning the Yale font is the only significant recent case I can remember.\r\n\r\nTo
    me -quickly- changing your mind about something you've written is OK,\r\nbut cover-up
    editing should really result in some virtual public flogging.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-03 17:38:33'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>that one time Simon caught mondoB editing his criticism of Carter concerning
    the Yale font</cite>\r\nYeah, there's that one specifically that I was thinking
    of. There's also that one recently about adding Greek glyphs to Deja Vu. Those
    points, however valid, were essential to the following discussions.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    a time limit should be implemented for edits?"
  created: '2006-12-03 21:44:48'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Editing your own posts isn\u2019t dishonest.\"\r\n\r\nNot necessarily,
    but it's still good form to automatically mark edited posts as such."
  created: '2006-12-04 16:08:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'If I correct spelling and other mistakes, I don''t label it as edited. If
    I change content after the first few minutes, or after someone responds with reference
    to my post, I put in the ''edit'' note. This seems to me a reasonable way to proceed. '
  created: '2006-12-04 16:52:04'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: I didn't read the entire thread, but if it hasn't been mentioned, I'd like
    to see the Typographic Education forum moved out of the "Special Interest" ghetto
    to the main board. I think it might get a bit more traffic that way.
  created: '2006-12-04 20:57:04'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Question to the moderator on duty (sorry I'm late and I'm not even sure this
    is the best place): \r\n\r\nIs it a copyright breach to reproduce an article from
    a journal/magazine (or part of it) or part of a book (say, part of a chapter)?
    Even if I reference it, would that be ok? \r\n\r\nThe same for photos: I notice
    people post photos from other website (I've done it myself a couple of times).
    Shouldn't we add the name of the photographer and the source everytime we do it
    or is that not necessary? I notices people upload other people's stuff a lot but
    I'm not sure this is a good thing. Maybe Typophile should advise on that? Sorry
    if this is not relevant."
  created: '2006-12-08 16:14:03'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I think that is good common sense and people should make a point of always
    adding that information. '
  created: '2006-12-08 16:54:42'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Fair Use laws allow images, text or whatever to be used for commentary and
    criticism, education, etc. Profiting from someone's work or claiming someone else's
    work as one's own is clearly wrong, but posting a photo or citing a text for discussion
    is not. Since this is clearly a forum for discussion by its very nature, there
    is very little danger legally or ethically in posting materials.\r\n\r\nIt is
    good form to cite sources or authors though."
  created: '2006-12-09 01:01:39'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: Thanks!
  created: '2006-12-09 18:20:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But there are still quantity/proportion limits in Fair Use.\r\nLike you can't
    copy the whole thing, or even most of it.\r\n\r\nAnd some authors will make trouble
    for much less. Like I remember encountering strong if civil resistance from Maxim
    Zhukov for the idea of sending somebody* a copy of a single table from an article
    he'd written for Typography Papers; this, even though it was from an issue no
    longer available for [direct] sale.\r\n\r\n* I think it was Chris.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-09 18:23:43'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Yeah, the limiting factor is that you cannot cite so much that the original
    source is no longer needed, which would be unfairly impeding trade.\r\n\r\nI don't
    off the top of my head remember the limitations on making direct copies under
    Fair Usage laws like you mentioned, but as I recall most of it comes down to common
    sense. Are you unfairly impeding someone's right to make a profit or to obscure
    an author's moral rights? Then don't do it.\r\n\r\nThis is a wierd part, because
    no matter what a person says in their copyright, or shall we say EULA?, others
    still have legally protected rights to directly quote or discuss a person's work,
    or to display an image of the object under discussion as long as it cannot be
    mistaken as the original source.\r\n\r\nThis might be ruffling some people's feathers,
    but I'm curious how that plays out in Fontland?"
  created: '2006-12-10 03:18:55'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: Have links at the bottom of topics that are related to other topics in some
    way to you have a broad view of knowledge and one that i must include is a junior
    typophile section for students because they (hint hint to some people on here)
    get bullied for not knowing as much as the rest on here!
  created: '2006-12-10 14:05:11'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: As wnf says above, would like to see email notifications of replies to threads
    - automatic for those you start and an option for others - this is pretty much
    standard feature of forums (fora). Usual practice these days seems to be to send
    a single mail, however many replies follow, until you revist the thread, which
    prevents your mailbox getting crowded.
  created: '2006-12-10 14:37:21'
- author:
    name: Frank Finnegan
  body: "My 2\xA2. I'm fairly new to Typophile, so please take my comments with a
    grain of salt.\r\n\r\nMy first impressions of the bulletin board were that it
    was very user-unfriendly, had minimal navigation, and no ability to follow (subscribe)
    threads that interested me. As a result, I would read the first few posts of an
    interesting thread and then forget to follow up on the the next day.\r\n\r\nI
    belong to another online community called <a href=\"http://www.flyertalk.com/\">FlyerTalk</a>.
    They use a great bulletin board in their fora that has many of the features requested
    by other users in this thread. IIRC the software house that created it is <a href=\"http://www.vbulletin.com/\">vBulletin</a>.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    you'd like to look at the features it has to offer.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nFrank.\r\n\r\nDisclaimer:
    I have no association with vBulletin."
  created: '2006-12-11 02:02:10'
- author:
    name: Frank Finnegan
  body: "Just found another irritating feature on this site...\r\n\r\nWhy, when I
    post a comment, must I be taken back to the <em>beginning</em> of the thread?\r\n\r\nI've
    already read the previous posts before replying; I'd much rather be taken to the
    thread's <em>last</em> post."
  created: '2006-12-11 02:05:59'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: I second that last comment.
  created: '2007-01-04 11:26:48'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "I think that has something to do with the \u201Cnew\u201D links not working,
    no?"
  created: '2007-01-04 11:38:32'
date: '2006-11-27 07:21:20'
node_type: forum
title: Typophile "To Do" 2007

---
