---
author:
  name: ruthmetro
body: "Hi,\r\nI am currently researching for my dissertation which is about how David
  Carson has influenced publishing since the 1990\u2019s with Raygun. \r\nI just wondered
  if anyone would be kind enough to answer a few questions for me...\r\n\r\n\r\nQuestion
  1. \r\nHave you been influenced by Carson? Are there any elements of his work that
  you have been inspired by?\r\n\r\nQuestion 2.\r\nWhat did you think of Raygun at
  the time? (if applicable)\r\n\r\nQuestion 3.\r\nWhat do you think of the many amateur
  designers that try to copy his work? \r\n\r\nQuestion 4. \r\nHow do you think publishing
  in general has changed/been influenced since Raygun?\r\n\r\nThank you "
comments:
- author:
    name: Duckworth
  body: "Q1> I have - Carson's work 'got me into' graphic design... I got addicted
    to the End of Print, it was THE book when I started college. I was definately
    inspired by his work, but in a different way to a lot of people, I think - I liked
    the little quirky touches he applied to things. The one example that immediately
    comes to mind is the design he did for Speak magazine. Interesting concepts such
    as having the contents page on the centre spread and having plus and minus page
    numbering, pages preceding the centre were negative numbers; also, having an article
    which stopped abruptly in the magzine - the rest of it appeared online. It's easy
    to dismiss things like that as gimmicky, but it kept really well with the tone
    of the magazine and I still like the lateral thought behind them!\r\n\r\nQ2> I
    got into RG just after Carson left : ( but in the UK we had BlahBlahBlah magazine
    which kind of took off where he left off.\r\n\r\nQ3> It's inevitable that his
    deconstructivist approach would be emulated because I remember it stood out so
    much at the time - people pick up on that.\r\n\r\nQ4> I mentioned BlahBlahBlah
    above, I remember that had a direct link with RG. I think there was a real backlash
    against the deconstructive style around '98 onwards.\r\n\r\nSorry it's difficult
    to write too much at the moment because I haven't got much time, but I hope this
    helps you a little bit.\r\n\r\nIt's worth checking out TypeRadio, there's a recent
    interview with DC."
  created: '2006-11-28 14:32:15'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Q1: I think Carson's influence on design has been huge and I credit him for
    that. He busted it wide open. However, I am NOT a fan either of his work or of
    the direction he has moved design in. Call me an old fogy but I like to actually
    read type and don't consider it just another design element. I design in a way
    that is pretty diametrically opposite to his aesthetic. I'm much more of a minimalist
    - I believe good design says more with less.\r\n\r\nQ2: As for Raygun specifically
    I really didn't do much more than glance through it. I truly hated his book Cyclops,
    both for the photography (the awful Albert Watson) and the egregious type design.
    \r\n\r\nQ3&4: I have much railed and lamented at the way all of a sudden book
    designers thought it was cool to have the type all squashed together and bleeding
    off the page and impossible to decipher. Or the above-mentioned TOC in the middle
    of the book. I think it's calming down now.\r\n\r\nSo to me he's the design equivalent
    of rap music - generally kinda hate it, do my best to ignore it, but occasionally
    there's something that makes me go WOW and I have to grudgingly acknowledge his
    spot in the pantheon. He is certainly a valid subject for a dissertation."
  created: '2006-11-28 14:49:12'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Raygun followed any formal education I had. Carson's freedom in breaking
    rules reflected trends that had been part of fine art for a whle. I had seen these
    trends and remember being happy in a way to see print explode the way it did.\r\n\r\nBeing
    a bit older now, I see the key being that we focus on the craft and the information.
    If the writer takes a deconstructed approach the design might follow. But, if
    the writer is formally trying to communicate I feel the design should respect
    and enhance the effort."
  created: '2006-11-28 16:12:54'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "To sort of echo what jupitorboy said, when in school, he was all the rage,
    and we all saw him as an amazing designer.\r\n\r\nLater, looking back, I see him
    more as an amazing stylist. Subtle difference, perhaps."
  created: '2006-11-28 22:04:56'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Hi Ruth\r\n\r\nWhere I come from, Carson is a dirty word. Here's why. The
    seventh form school program in NZ asks students to research a famous designer
    as an 'artist model' \u2013 and design their work according to the aesthetic of
    that designer. Many of them pick David Carson. The school leavers then apply for
    places on the graphics undergraduate programs that I teach on. Every year I am
    confronted with hundreds of pieces of 'rip-off' Carson-esque work produced by
    impressionable young people who think it's great without ever questioning why
    it exists in the first place...\r\n\r\nTo answer your questions\r\n\r\n<em>Question
    1.\r\nHave you been influenced by Carson? Are there any elements of his work that
    you have been inspired by?</em>\r\n\r\nIn terms of style and understanding, Carson's
    influence on me has been as polarising and negative as his own Swiss School experience
    was on him. Like James above, I completed my formal training before the advent
    of 'The End of Print'. The caption that the book contains under two identical
    pictures run side by side <em>\"...this picture was so great we had to run it
    twice\"</em> is inspiring in it's idiocy; I use it to illustrate to my students
    what not finishing your studies in visual literacy will do to you. \r\n\r\nBy
    the same token, Jessica Helfand's foreword is the only thing worth taking seriously
    about 'The End of Print'.\r\n\r\n<em>Question 2.\r\nWhat did you think of Raygun
    at the time? (if applicable)</em>\r\n\r\nUnreadable and ugly-looking hyperbole.
    Which makes me sound just like Massimo Vignelli talking about Emigre. The difference
    was, Emigre had a point \u2013 so it's possible to see their editorial design
    as a function of their agenda. With Carson's agenda of 'how can I make this a
    frustrating (or, with the Bryan Ferry spread, an <em>irrelevant</em>) experience
    for the viewer?' that output is not so much design as fine art posturing pretending
    to be something else. \r\n\r\nThere is a back story, detailed by Rudy VanderLans
    in Emigre No. 69 'The End', about the critical difference between Carson's earlier
    Beach Culture and Emigre, which might be worth reading.\r\n\r\nIt's worth noting
    that the review pages and the adverts in the back section of RG (i.e. those parts
    that the publication derived <em>revenue</em> from) were as conventionally-designed
    as any other magazine of the time.\r\n\r\n<em>Question 3.\r\nWhat do you think
    of the many amateur designers that try to copy his work?</em>\r\n\r\nSee above.
    In that Carson never matriculated, what's the actual distinction between him and
    the amateurs? If you look at the big-ticket work post RG, such as the Pepsi campaign,
    you'll see how amateurish he could be.\r\n\r\n<em>Question 4.\r\nHow do you think
    publishing in general has changed/been influenced since Raygun?</em>\r\n\r\nIf
    this is really a question about 'publishing in general' don't talk to the (hired)
    hand \u2013 ask the publishers. If you mean it as a question about changes in
    magazine editorial design since Raygun, then arguably the design (like the English
    language in general), has gotten a lot more self-conscious, but actually less
    precise in its ability to communicate, and it's correspondingly perceived as being
    more disposable by its consumers.\r\n\r\nGood luck with your dissertation."
  created: '2006-11-28 23:45:30'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Thanks, Ben, for saying what I feel in a much more eloquent manner than I
    could.
  created: '2006-11-29 03:54:15'
- author:
    name: Duckworth
  body: "---\u2026\u2018The End of Print\u2019. The caption that the book contains
    under two identical pictures run side by side \u201C\u2026this picture was so
    great we had to run it twice\u201D is inspiring in it\u2019s idiocy; I use it
    to illustrate to my students what not finishing your studies in visual literacy
    will do to you.---\r\n\r\nI can see that, but aren't many design-books-for-designers
    full of that kind of thing? It's really no different from other offerings in principle,
    such as Attik's 'Noise' series, or Tomato's 'Bareback'. It's experimentation,
    playing about and self-indulgent - but it's certainly not limited to a single
    designer.\r\n\r\nNo one has mentioned that David Carson's work was (and to an
    extent) still is, exciting. I think graphic design would have been poorer if he
    hadn't appeared on the design scene and done what he did. It got me (and I'm sure
    countless others) into design and injected some excitement and enthusiasm into
    design at the same time.\r\n\r\nI actually think that he opened the door to a
    lot of people in what can be a very pretentious industry, by the very fact that
    he didn't get into design through the perceived 'proper' route.\r\n\r\nAlthough
    it might sound otherwise, I'm not particularly into his way of doing things (especially
    the questionable legibility issue, I could never swallow the 'if you have to dechipher
    it, it'll sink in better' line); ultimately the fact that this question was raised
    shows that he's left an indelible mark on graphic design (especially mid 90s design).
    Things have moved on, the backlash happened (and continues), but above all I remember
    being blown away by the designs at the time."
  created: '2006-11-29 14:15:29'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I think one point that needs to be made is that David Carson''s goal was
    never legibility. Ever. He was being provocative and challenging the status quo. '
  created: '2006-11-29 19:13:42'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Yes, and for that I give him credit. But the original post asked for comments
    both on his influence on design and publishing in general and also on our personal
    opinions and reactions to this influence. In the right context Carson has done
    some amazing groundbreaking work (whether or not I like it) however his approach
    has unfortunately been applied somewhat indiscriminately to poor effect. There
    were some really hideous Type Directors Club Annuals back in the day. But that's
    the problem with trends in general, they can't avoid getting diluted and kitschy
    after awhile. When your client starts asking for a "David Carson" kind of look
    you know it's probably time to try something new.
  created: '2006-11-29 19:28:19'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Right, that is true and I still need to anser the questions. I was an impressionable
    design student at the time RayGun hit and try as I might I never could quite \"do\"
    grunge. \r\n\r\nI just thought this talk of legibility really has not place as
    it is already understood. "
  created: '2006-11-29 19:33:26'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I remember seeing a magazine ad Carson did for \"The End of Print\". \r\n\r\nAll
    of the copy was set in Zapf Dingbats. All except the price and the address where
    to send the check. When the groundbreakers meet the customer, they all want the
    check."
  created: '2006-11-29 19:44:09'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I couldn't do grunge either (leave that to the kids) but it's important for
    a designer to recognize your personal design aesthetic (and thus perhaps your
    limitations) - and embrace and promote it! Not that we shouldn't push ourselves
    in new directions... I get annoyed when a potential client doesn't hire me because
    they don't see exactly what they are looking for already in my portfolio. But
    I don't like being asked to imitate another designer, especially one whose style
    runs so completely counter to my own.
  created: '2006-11-29 20:16:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the price and the address\r\n\r\nAnd when they wanted to communicate, instead
    of show off, they were legible. \r\n\r\nI find this kind of design annoying; ignoring
    the needs of the reader to me seems self-indulgent and supercilious. Maybe Carson
    and others are not that way personally, but to me the designs exude that attitude.\r\n\r\nedit:
    this is a reaction to the imitations of Carson. I don't actually know his work.
    \ "
  created: '2006-11-29 20:33:31'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: It's like a lot of contemporary architecture (or haute couture for that matter)
    - it's important to push the boundaries of the discipline and keep the dialogue
    fresh but you'd never want to live in it.
  created: '2006-11-29 20:42:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Magazines like Raygun have a very different audience than the more well known
    ones. The surferzine types probably didn't really buy the mag for reading text.
    It was a cool in-thing to have on your surfboard tabletop. David Carson was actually
    a collage artist (and good at it) not a publication designer. He made tone-poems
    with type and photo fragments.  The level of communication was all about visual
    tactile senses, not about conveying any specific information. His work was outrageous
    enough to get noticed for both good and bad reasons.  He was good at making typographic
    paintings but nowhere near as good at it as April Greiman and she also could communicate
    intended messages clearly.\r\nHas he been an influence on me in my design work?
    No, not really--to me he is an artist, not a graphic designer.\r\n\r\nRaygun is
    a collection of Carson's printmaking art and served to make the Basel school Weingart
    emulators look mainstream instead of avante garde.\r\n\r\nWanabbes have always
    been and always will be. Eventually the talented kids grow up and become themselves.
    The untalented kids just find someone else to emulate fearing their own ability.
    \r\n\r\nPublishing has not changed because of Carson. It has changed because of
    the technology.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: I am an old fart so I was too old to
    be impressed by Raygun.  When I was young, I was impressed by Gerbauchgrafik (sp?)."
  created: '2006-11-29 20:53:46'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "<em>Question 1.\LHave you been influenced by Carson? Are there any elements
    of his work that you have been inspired by?</em>\r\n\r\nWhen I was a student I
    was influenced by him. However, just like oil and water, his aesthetic and mine
    never mixed. \r\n\r\n<em>Question 2.\LWhat did you think of Raygun at the time?
    (if applicable)</em>\r\n\r\nI thought it fit the mood of the music and scene it
    was covering. Rolling Stone at the time was really struggling, IMHO, with design
    and content. I think Raygun filled a needed niche. I bought Raygun for quite a
    while. I actually wish I still had the first year or at least the first issue.
    \r\n\r\n<em>Question 3.\LWhat do you think of the many amateur designers that
    try to copy his work?</em>\r\n\r\nIt is just like anyone else trying to emulate
    someone they admire. Sometimes it is successful and sometimes it is just appropriated.\r\n\r\n<em>Question
    4.\LHow do you think publishing in general has changed/been influenced since Raygun?</em>\r\n\r\nDesign
    for the music world absorbed the style and occasionally resuscitates it when needed.
    I wouldn't say it had a long-felt influence though."
  created: '2006-11-29 21:56:57'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "At this point, it might be fair to let the work (seeing as William doesn't
    know it) speak for itself; here's a comparison of two book covers produced 24
    years apart. \r\n\r\nOn the left, the original design by Quentin Fiore, 1967 \xA9
    Bantam Books. On the right, the redesign by David Carson, 2001 \xA9 Jerome Agel.
    (BTW, I should point out that Carson was only hired to redo the cover, not the
    internal pages, which were a straight reprint of the original). \r\n\r\nFeel free
    to critique them both, perhaps starting with the question about the economy of
    means...\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/comparison-covers_3944.jpg]"
  created: '2006-11-30 05:39:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Question 1.\r\nHave you been influenced by Carson? \r\nNo, I'm not influenced
    by other designers.\r\n\r\nAre there any elements of his work that you have been
    inspired by?\r\nIt's nice to know that there are designers pushing the limits,
    doing their own thing.\r\nWhat impressed me most about Raygun and Emigre was that
    they used experimental indie-foundry fonts. That was an influence I suppose, to
    make experimental fonts, although my experiments weren't the kind that DC would
    be likely to use.\r\n\r\nQuestion 2.\r\nWhat did you think of Raygun at the time?
    (if applicable)\r\nBrilliant!\r\n\r\nQuestion 3.\r\nWhat do you think of the many
    amateur designers that try to copy his work?\r\nI think you'd have to look at
    a piece individually, and give it a thorough analysis, to know just what the designer
    is trying to do -- unless they're doing a complete rip-off of something in particular.
    But working in the manner or style associated with DC, the work must be judged
    on its own merits. Also, bear in mind that there were many other folk in the early
    90s doing similar stuff. \r\n\r\nQuestion 4.\r\nHow do you think publishing in
    general has changed/been influenced since Raygun?\r\nThere are a lot of \"post-literate\"
    publications now, and experiments with what kind of form a periodical can take.
    But again, you can't pin it all on DC.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-30 06:42:31'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Carson can't be blamed for the fact that it's absurd to redesign the cover
    of that book - the original cover is of a piece with the design of the entire
    book and IMHO should have been preserved as such. It may look a little dated but
    it fits. I love that book.\r\n\r\nCarson's redesign... I dunno - hyphenating Inventory
    is just a bit too cute for me. I guess Din is today's Helvetica. I'm also not
    a fan of the inconsistent use of caps in the authors names - to me that doesn't
    comment on the content of the book in a meaningful way. It tries too hard. But
    like I said, there's probably no way to update the original appropriately."
  created: '2006-11-30 14:46:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Right on Patty. \r\nI hate facsimiles that aren't, irrespective of the \"design
    quality\" of the new bits.\r\nBut for purists the 1967 original can easily be
    purchased for $10 (plus shipping).\r\n\r\n<em>I guess Din is today\u2019s Helvetica.</em>\r\n\r\nSomewhat
    ironic, as DIN pre-dates Helvetica, and Helvetica is today's best-selling font
    :-)"
  created: '2006-11-30 15:06:15'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I have the original, as well as \"I Seem to Be a Verb\", by Bucky Fuller,
    from 1970, also designed by Quentin Fiore - which had two covers. It's about the
    coolest book ever altho the binding does not hold up well. I buy it for all my
    friends and can't believe nobody has brought it back in print.\r\n\r\nI'm a book
    designer - and specialize in illustrated books, in which the cover is an indispensable
    part of the whole package so it pains me to see this sort of disconnect.\r\n\r\nI
    didn't know Din predated Helvetica. Fancy that. But since Helvetica is packaged
    into every computer, it's not fair to compare.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/images_6729.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/images-1_5371.jpg]"
  created: '2006-11-30 16:13:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yes, DIN was designed in Germany in the 1930s, and used for the signage of
    the autobahn system.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/306/din1451-family.html\r\n\r\nHowever,
    the Pool version is smoother, so I suppose the relationship is --\r\n\r\nDIN 1451
    : FF DIN = Akzidenz Grotesk : Helvetica"
  created: '2006-11-30 16:47:14'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "That cover by Carson looks like a collection of amateurish mistakes... lack
    of contrast, misplaced emphasis, inconsistent use of caps, weird hypentation...
    I can't see a purpose on it. It hardly makes me want to know about the contents...
    altough Carson was actually out of shape by 2001 wasn't him?\r\n\r\nI really liked
    Chri's reflextion on Carson.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-11-30 17:58:52'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "I find this topic to be ironic. Why? Because I know of some despicable things
    David Carson has done\u2014 oddly enough, to students. Long story short, he was
    paid a plane ticket to speak at a graduation\u2014 cancelled at the last minute,
    and never returned the money. That's my idea of a role model.\r\n\r\nI would recommend
    switching subjects if its not too late, because for a man who is so respected\u2014
    to blatantly disrespect students and education\u2014 if I can be so bold\u2014
    does not deserve admiration. I find the man to have exhibited self-importance
    on a grand scale. There are far too many other great designers out there who respect
    education, and other human beings in general. Please end the Carson worship.\r\n\r\n<em>No,
    I\u2019m not influenced by other designers.</em>\r\nNick, I love ya...But that
    is the most ridiculous thing I have ever heard."
  created: '2006-11-30 19:02:45'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Not to impugn the dead but I had a similar experience with Susan Sontag when
    I was a student - we invited her to speak and then to dinner and she just crapped
    on all of us. Her behavior was insulting and dismissive. I thought - why treat
    students that way? And thereafter never read another word she wrote. Probably
    to my own detriment LOL.
  created: '2006-11-30 19:10:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Delusions of grandier are sometimes invited by the egos of the famous--even
    if they only get 15 minutes of it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-30 20:31:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the most ridiculous thing I have ever heard.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, OK, I
    was influenced in that statement by Emory Douglas, former Minister of Culture
    of the Black Panthers, who was asked at TypeCon 2004 in San Francisco who his
    design influences were, and he said none, the main thing is to get the message
    out.\r\n\r\nAnd I had the privilege of working for Raymond Lee for a year in 1980,
    who I consider my mentor as a designer, and I still occasionally find myself thinking
    \"How would Ray do this?\" or \"Ray wouldn't like that!\"\r\n\r\nBut the question
    here is all about blood-sucking and hero-worship, so what I mean is I don't try
    to model my work on somebody else's, but go out of my way to try to do something
    different. So maybe that's like DC after all!"
  created: '2006-11-30 22:01:25'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I find this topic to be ironic. Why? Because I know of some despicable
    things David Carson has done\u2014 oddly enough, to students. Long story short,
    he was paid a plane ticket to speak at a graduation\u2014 cancelled at the last
    minute, and never returned the money. That\u2019s my idea of a role model.\"\r\n\r\nWe
    invited him to speak at our school too. While we got him on the plane, there were
    other aspects of the weekend that were...uh...'interesting'.\r\n\r\nHe was definitely
    playing the trash-the-hotel-room rock-star persona during that time. \r\n\r\nA
    good (designer) friend of mine shares his name. He gets some rather interesting
    emails at times addressed to the 'other' one. ;o)"
  created: '2006-12-01 16:41:59'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>We invited him to speak at our school too. While we got him on the plane,
    there were other aspects of the weekend that were\u2026uh\u2026\u2019interesting\u2019.</em>\r\n\r\nHe
    leaves a legacy of this. I've heard other similar stories. I just get so tired
    of hearing about this guy because designers like to talk about him like he's Jesus
    Christ himself. He's just a dude, and an a$$hole at that. \r\n\r\nI've had the
    pleasure of meeting some other design legends and people I have admired who were
    nothing but gracious, kind, and generous with their time\u2014 which is why the
    idolization of this guy ticks me off so much. The good work he may have done is
    tainted by his less than exemplary antics.\r\n\r\n<em>And I had the privilege
    of working for Raymond Lee for a year in 1980, who I consider my mentor as a designer</em>\r\nThanks
    for coming clean, Nick. ;)"
  created: '2006-12-01 17:24:32'
- author:
    name: LoveType
  body: "Forget About Carson please. \r\n\r\n\r\nQuestion 1.\r\nHave you been influenced
    by Carson? Are there any elements of his work that you have been inspired by?\r\n\r\nNEVER\r\nI
    am trying not to look Carson's work.\r\n\r\nQuestion 2.\r\nWhat did you think
    of Raygun at the time? (if applicable)\r\nUnreadable. \r\nDesign without function
    is dull \r\nby Willi Kunz\r\n\r\nQuestion 3.\r\nWhat do you think of the many
    amateur designers that try to copy his work?\r\nMany amateur designer think that
    he is good and try to do what he does. The result is very awfull. Remember grid
    is important into design. \r\n\r\n\r\nQuestion 4.\r\nHow do you think publishing
    in general has changed/been influenced since Raygun?\r\n\r\nits still the same.
    Publishing try to make their magazine readable and legible.\r\n\r\nGood luck "
  created: '2006-12-02 02:06:31'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "<em>I\u2019ve had the pleasure of meeting some other design legends and people
    I have admired who were nothing but gracious, kind, and generous with their time</em>
    \u2013 now that's where it's <strong>really</strong> at. Good point Terry."
  created: '2006-12-02 05:33:05'
- author:
    name: swiss dots
    picture: 111368
  body: "<cite>I\u2019ve had the pleasure of meeting some other design legends and
    people I have admired who were nothing but gracious, kind, and generous with their
    time</cite>\r\n\r\nI can't comment on any of his alleged past actions, but I just
    spent the day with Carson last week, and I found him gracious, kind, and generous
    with his time. "
  created: '2006-12-03 04:55:11'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "I'm <em>still</em> impressed by Gebrauchgraphik. Altho I haven't seen many
    around lately. But Chris, when you say <em>'He made tone-poems with type and photo
    fragments'</em> shouldn't that be '...tone poems with photos and type fragments'?\r\n\r\nAnd
    Nick, <em>'What impressed me most about Raygun and Emigre was that they used experimental
    indie-foundry fonts.'</em> \r\n\r\nAs far as I'm aware, Emigr\xE9, like the other
    indie foundries, had an open-door policy that encouraged and sponsored beginners
    like Barry Deck and many others. I think DC commissioned <a href=\"http://typophile.com/wiki/Typophile%20type%20designers\">Miles
    Newlyn</a> to make the RG fonts, rather than do them himself, but I don't believe
    that the man who once claimed 'No Emigr\xE9 fonts used in this issue!' was really
    keen on supporting other players in the indie foundry scene."
  created: '2006-12-03 21:58:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"tone poems with photos and type fragments\u2019\"\r\n\r\nBen,\r\nYou could
    certainly say that. His work always seemed like he picked up left-over slices
    of printed paper from below the paper cutter and made a collage of them. I think
    their might have been a proportion of his readership who were in chemically altered
    states and were not tuned in to actually reading the words very often :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-04 02:44:13'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "I probably found Design Writing Research, Studio Dumbar, and Martin Venezky
    more enjoyable when I was in school (and I was trying to do my own version of
    the Cranbrook system)... but I would be lying if I didn't find Carson compelling.
    \r\n\r\nI found some of the accidental haphazard mishaps that he called layouts
    intriguing and they still are to some extent interesting. It's just that I quickly
    realized that I simply didn't work that way naturally. \r\n\r\nAs for the horror
    stories, some of them are true. He abandoned a yearly course after just three
    weeks. The students, foaming at the mouth with rage, tried demanding their money
    back. He's also notorious for not returning illustrators' works.\r\n\r\nAs a guy,
    he's actually quite amiable, mild, and smart. "
  created: '2006-12-04 19:20:05'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>I can\u2019t comment on any of his alleged past actions, but I just spent
    the day with Carson last week, and I found him gracious, kind, and generous with
    his time.</em>\r\n\r\nGary, I can't wait to see your film and rather enjoyed your
    Wilco documentary...but you're featuring him in a movie. I wouldn't doubt that
    had a lot to do with your experience. ;)"
  created: '2006-12-05 18:41:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>quite amiable, mild, and smart.</em>\r\n\r\nYeah, that's what Borat said
    about all the people who are now suing him :-)"
  created: '2006-12-05 19:22:02'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: That's what the neighbors always say about serial killers too...
  created: '2006-12-05 19:36:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "On the sample book cover that was posted: I do think it is excellent as an
    abstract design, but poor as typography. I think this was Chris' point much earlier.
    If this generally true of Carson's designs, it would explain the polarized reactions--enthusiasm
    and dismissal. \r\n\r\nThe supercilliousness that I could feel exuding from this
    kind of design does seem to borne out by the stories. "
  created: '2006-12-05 19:51:47'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "'Yeah, that\u2019s what Borat said about all the people who are now suing
    him.'\r\n\r\n'That\u2019s what the neighbors always say about serial killers too\u2026'\r\n\r\nHah.
    My interactions with him were brief, so I can't say anymore. \r\n\r\nI used to
    bump into him in the Art Directors Club, NY bathroom at event openings. Haven't
    seen him since I stopped participating in these organizations, and that's a while
    ago.\r\n\r\n--------------------------------------\r\n\r\nAnyway, as pointed out
    his typography is generally bad. The Albert Watson book and the ads he did for
    Armani watches (if I recall correctly) were atrocious. \r\n\r\nHe also worked
    on the Lucent Technology commercials, where the guy is typing his thoughts out
    onscreen. Can't recall the typeface he used..."
  created: '2006-12-05 20:18:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I saw him once give a presentation on his work at our local AIGA chapter.
    He seemed a bit bored and distracted. I took it as just being travel-weary and
    having to give the same speech yet one more time. I do recall that a very attractive
    and provacative looking women came up to him as he was about to leave the stage.
    She handed him her card in that oh, so, transparent way. Carson just gave her
    card back without hesitation--along with a cold, dismissive look.\r\nHe didn't
    stick around for drinks and munchies.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-05 20:35:12'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "Wait wait... Design without function is...wait for it...wait for it...\r\n\r\nART"
  created: '2006-12-06 05:12:40'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: I believe it was Otl AIcher who said design was more difficult than art because
    at the end of the day, not only did one have to answer to oneself, but to a damn
    client as well.
  created: '2006-12-06 08:48:01'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "1. I have been influenced, but certainly not inspired. It re-affirmed my
    faith in Swiss/minimilast design. It showed me how silly over-design can be.\r\n\r\n2.
    It was crap. But I'm a hyper functionalist.\r\n\r\n3. Designers who simply copy
    designers arent really designers at all. They simply lack originality.\r\n\r\n4.
    As much as I hate deconstructivist work, he was a powerfull force at the time
    and did a lot for solidifying a certain style."
  created: '2006-12-06 13:30:20'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Wait wait\u2026 Design without function is\u2026wait for it\u2026wait for
    it\u2026\"\r\n\r\ncarsonesque?"
  created: '2006-12-06 14:33:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Carsonogenic :>-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-06 14:38:50'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: Perfect Chris. Just PERFECT. CARSONOGENIC to describe all unpleasant type
    and/or design/designer.
  created: '2006-12-07 15:47:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "I didn't groan at that one Chris.\r\n\r\nBrilliant!\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2006-12-07 16:39:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Yeah, puns are supposed to be BAD. You''re slipping Chris :) '
  created: '2006-12-07 16:53:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That is why I used my \"Holding-your-nose\" smiley above :-P\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-07 18:43:42'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Question 1.\r\nHave you been influenced by Carson? Are there any elements
    of his work that you have been inspired by?\r\n\r\n<em>Yes. the post-photographic
    treatment of type, working it into and out of the POV, I find interesting. Additionally,
    I find the fact he makes a successful living at making type \"risky\" inspiring.</em>\r\n\r\nQuestion
    2.\r\nWhat did you think of Raygun at the time? (if applicable)\r\n\r\n<em>It
    was pretty, but only occasionally was it successful in using the look to tell
    the story. However, it was fun, the few issues I've gotten to see.</em>\r\n\r\n\r\nQuestion
    3.\r\nWhat do you think of the many amateur designers that try to copy his work?\r\n\r\n<em>Ooooooh,
    I hate 'em. But not as much as the professionals that do, then claim they don't.</em>\r\n\r\n\r\nQuestion
    4.\r\nHow do you think publishing in general has changed/been influenced since
    Raygun?\r\n\r\n<em>It created a trend. Is publishing really influenced by design,
    or just a broker of it?</em>\r\n\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\nI have to say, without any
    familiarity with the book, that looks like a horrible example of Carson's work.
    <em>Perhaps</em> the superemphasis of \"marshall\" has a subtext inside the book
    that makes a clever gimmick, but overall he has much better pieces. \r\n\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-12-10 02:15:14'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Raygun pretty? It was a LOT of things, good and bad, but pretty is one of
    the last words I'd have used to describe it... nor do I think that was what Carson
    was after.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "Yes, pretty. Different people have different aesthetics. Just like rock
      n roll was once considered \"devil music\" or \"just noise\", but now its best
      examples are appreciated critically, Raygun was trying to communicate the same
      idea in print.\r\n\r\nI'm sure that my choices in fashion, art, architecture,
      while they seem pretty or pleasant to me, are grating to others. For solid sorta-recent
      examples, look at Nine Inch Nails's The Downward Spiral liner art and music
      videos, they are all excellent examples of a very pretty sort of ugly. \r\n\r\n<A
      HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine
      Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
    children:
    - author:
        name: Choz Cunningham
        picture: 111714
      body: "According to my wife, \"pretty\" is not the correct term. Based on her
        opinion of my aesthetic, \"beautiful\" is closer, but still not quite right.
        Will keep ya posted if she has more insight.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
        Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type
        Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
      created: '2006-12-10 14:19:35'
    created: '2006-12-10 13:50:52'
  created: '2006-12-10 04:56:10'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2005_08_24_carson_6430.jpg]\r\n\r\nHe
    was a lot younger looking than this photo, when I first met him."
  created: '2006-12-10 20:13:26'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: Ahhh...he's grumpy. Or his constitution has become carsonogenic.
  children:
  - author:
      name: ruthmetro
    body: "HI\r\nthanks for answering my questions they have been of great help for
      my dissertation. \r\nbut i wondered if you would be able to answer me on more
      question. \r\n\r\nFor those of you who were aware of Raygun at the time it was
      published, What did you think of it? the style? the content? did you go out
      and buy the magazine every month? and has your opinion of Carson changed over
      the last 15 years?\r\n\r\nthanks "
    created: '2006-12-18 13:47:13'
  created: '2006-12-11 12:41:47'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"For those of you who were aware of Raygun at the time it was published,
    What did you think of it? the style?\"\r\n\r\nIt was different, ergo, 'cool' and
    hip.\r\n\r\n\"the content?\"\r\n\r\nYou really couldn't read any of the content.
    ;o)\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-18 14:21:19'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I was very much aware of it (you couldn't not be) and certainly flipped thru
    an issue here or there on the newstand but it was so far from my aesthetic - however
    cool and hip it was - that I never bought it. And no, you couldn't read the content.\r\n\r\nMy
    opinion of Carson hasn't changed since those days. As stated before, I acknowledge
    his spot in the design pantheon but am largely glad design has moved on."
  created: '2006-12-18 14:54:31'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "\u201CFor those of you who were aware of Raygun at the time it was published,
    What did you think of it? the style?\u201D\r\n\r\nAt the time, I thought it was
    cool and hip, too, but I also saw it as part of an experiment with the computer
    that almost needed to happen; an irrational fever that needed to run its course.
    While everyone saw it as a style, I preferred to think of it as a philosophical
    challenge, maybe a bit haphazard and misguided, but no less valid to me now...
    A bit dated in the way when one revisits older photos and asks, what was I thinking
    and wearing at 18!..."
  created: '2006-12-18 16:50:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I thought the \"style\" was too selfcentered and didn't care about the content.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-18 17:06:21'
date: '2006-11-28 13:51:42'
node_type: forum
title: David Carson / Raygun

---
