---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: "This is a third viewing. \r\n\r\nHere is what's new: \r\n\r\n- Completely revised
  outlines\r\n- Expanded glyph set \r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The one/two pixel break is generally much better at 14-15 PPEM (especially
    with your tight spacing). Two pixel spacing is indeed generally better down to
    quite a small size, like 10 PPEM. \"I can easily add a space\" is not true when
    it comes to boundary conditions, like the right side of the \"r\".\r\n\r\nFrom
    what I know of it previously, this is a herculean effort, so almost any result
    would be encouraging! :-)  I think you're doing better than that minimum, but
    mainly it's too blurry.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-28 16:46:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> but mainly it\u2019s too blurry </cite>\r\n\r\nThat is the mac rendering
    engine in part. Partly it's the weight which is maybe too low. I will post a screen
    capture from the hinted TT on a PC soon.\r\n\r\nBTW, in order to get a one pixel
    break without hugely crazy hinting and while preventing visual shift I was forced
    to align the Glyphs to the left. Eventually I will probably offer a version with
    very little re-editing needed that has 1 extra pixel of space at 13pt mac on right.
    That version will be more similar to other monospaced fonts in terms of interletter
    spacing.\r\n\r\nBTW: here is the plan I have to finnish this project: Work out
    the UPM, spacing, & alignment issues ( done - I think ), Get the print version
    to look okay ( NOT done), Hint for Type 1 as best I can & see if it's viable at
    all ( not done at all), and last: Hint for TT. I have done some test hinting which
    is finally going fairly well so I am nearly ready to do that part. But doing it
    too seriously apart from lesson learning would be silly because the printed version
    is still too gawky. So: Would you print the PDF & comment on that too? \r\n\r\nBTW-
    Are any of the hyper expert hinters on Typophile? Glenda, Tom, Vince? Could I
    call you for 5 min? If I have missed anyone in my ignorance (VERY likely) please
    let me know.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-28 18:03:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The main reason it's blurry must be that the outlines are too\r\nprinty (and
    they don't have superhinting to warp everything\r\ntowards screen rendering).
    It's a classic -if obscure- problem.\r\n\r\nBTW, Carl is a hyperhinter too AFAIK.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-28 18:10:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Yes, You are right. outlines are 'too printy' because I want them to be sorta
    okay in print. I could match them to the pixels at one mac or PC ppem but the
    one pixel thing I was shooting for would make them almost unreadable in print.
    Or that's how it seems to me anyway. I think this is the best compromise between
    the screen & paper. Maybe not. I am open to suggestions. That said, I probably
    could move the side of the Cap J slightly for a better pixel grid match at 12
    pt on the mac & so on. But before I do I worry about that I want to be a bit more
    'print centric'. If I can get it to look better in print and loose a bit for quartz
    then so be it. \r\n\r\nThis face is basically for PC programmers who hate Cleartype,
    and Smoothing, want single pixel stems up to 19pt & want a decent looking printout.
    If other folks like it too then that's a bonus!\r\n\r\nI have a feeling that fixing
    this for print may actually solve some of the screen issues too though. "
  created: '2006-11-28 19:06:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'The spacing looks too tight to me, especially at the smaller sizes. '
  created: '2006-11-28 19:08:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It looks pretty good to me.\r\nYou could try William's suggestion, but it
    may be OK the way it is on PC.\r\n\r\nAs you say, the g might be better with the
    join between the bowls more centred.\r\n\r\nPerhaps the k could have a little
    space between the vertical and the diagonals, rather than having them all meet
    at the same point. Either by introducing a horizontal bar, or by starting the
    bottom right stroke along the top right one."
  created: '2006-11-28 21:19:37'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "\"Printy,\" eheh, must be as technical as \"squooshed.\"\r\n\r\nm / w - both
    look short and a little sqooshed \r\ng - nice solve\r\nj - seems a litte wide\r\n\r\nI
    agree about the spacing, it is a little too tight for me in the smaller showing."
  created: '2006-11-28 21:31:32'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Dear Eben, I\u2019d expect to see your 11 pt in the size of your 13 pt, why
    is that ?\r\nI agree that the spacing is too tight. The very top right of \u2018s\u2019
    has a sort of mechanical micro shift to the bottom, a think that the \u2018S\u2019
    doesn\u2019t have ; also the negative of the \u20186\u2019 presents something
    similar. The \u20182\u2019 has a bump in the center and its bottom part hasn`t
    got the same temper treatment like \u20181,5\u2019 (what about \u20184,5,7\u2019
    or \u2018Z,z\u2019). The closed negative of \u2018@\u2019 has got a point without
    smooth connection, and also \u2018&\u2019 needs some editing.\r\nI like the horizontal
    stress of the characters and I like the \u2018g\u2019. I think you are doing great.
    I've passed the link on to Fabrizio Schiavi to inform him about your work, since
    he his also a very good hinter (I am not)."
  created: '2006-11-28 21:48:01'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "The spacing being too tight for everybody but my client I will seriously
    look at pursuing a 2nd face without the imperitive to keep spacing at one pixel.
    \r\n\r\n<cite> I\u2019d expect to see your 11 pt in the size of your 13 pt, why
    is that ?</cite> Allessandro, I think may be two reasons. One is that these are
    Mac pt sizes. The other is that like Consolas or Verdana the glyphs are large
    so that you can potentially mine the smaller 'pt' sizes. \r\n\r\n<cite>  \u2018s\u2019
    has a sort of mechanical micro shift to the bottom, a think that the \u2018S\u2019
    doesn\u2019t have </cite> I think I see what you mean - do you mean that the s
    bows inwards in a way that the S does not? If so I agree. I will fix that. About
    the 2 - you are saying the stroke needs to vary and you find the bump to be uncharacteristic
    of the rest of the face. Is that right?\r\n\r\n<cite> The closed negative of \u2018@\u2019
    has got a point without smooth connection </cite>\r\nDo you mean the top of the
    lower join stroke? \r\n\r\n<cite> I like the \u2018g\u2019 </cite> <cite> g -
    nice solve </cite>\r\nI like the g too but I don't know if it can exist well in
    such a tight face. I'll keep it for another project. The next g has to resolve
    into a b/w bitmap more gracefully.\r\n\r\n<cite> Either by introducing a horizontal
    bar, or by starting the bottom right stroke along the top right one. </cite>  \r\nIf
    you look at the PDF you will see I have taken your 2nd suggestion. In the Pixels
    this is not apparent though. Perhaps I should exagerate it. Or go to The Luc(as)
    method of using an unconnected delta next to the stem...\r\n\r\nHas anybody printed
    the PDF? Should I post a different one better somehow better suited to finding
    the bits that are irregular & wonky in print?\r\n\r\nBecause I need to add some
    additional consistancy to the face I am looking now for control  glyphs which
    I would then use to iron out the others. Which glyphs ( looking at the PDF please
    ) would you keep if any? For instance I think ny 'q' & 'b' are kinda sweet ( imagine
    cartman's voice there ). My 'e' on the other hand is pretty pockmarked with tweaks.
    The o and a which should be finnished by now are not. The a needs to have a bigger
    counter I think. The o should maybe be a bit more boxy to let the counter grow.\r\n\r\nI
    have also tapered the tips of some of my glyphs like the c & j. Maybe that a bad
    idea. Maybe they should be squarish or expand like the tail of the Q...\r\n\r\nWhat
    do you think? \r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-28 23:21:42'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"Sweeet!\"\r\n\r\nI will look at the posted samples and your PDF soon Eben.
    Still a lot going on. \r\n\r\nBTW Carl is definitely not a hyperhinter, not even
    a hinter, in TT anyway. I did PS hinting years ago but I'm clueless with TT. I'm
    surrounded by expert hinters though, so maybe I'm blending in with them. Jelle
    Bosma is the MT Hinter/Designer/Programmer. "
  created: '2006-11-29 02:13:49'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sdv3_at_cp_6541.gif]'
  created: '2006-11-29 13:13:23'
- author:
    name: viko
    picture: 111740
  body: "Hi Eben, as promised some comments.\r\n\r\n- Honestly I don't think you gain
    much from tapering the serifs on i j l I 1. It's too subtle and also a bit inconsistent
    with the other letters. \r\n- Although as such the g is interesting, I don't think
    it works here. It's not very legible, esp. in small sizes. And it doesn't fit
    with the rest. \r\n- Have you tried a less curved entrance point on n m h u ?
    (more horizontal)\r\n- To improve the M, i would make the legs straight. It opens
    it up.\r\n- Generally I agree that the spacing is very tight and the word space
    too wide.\r\n- The & looks a bit cramped, perhaps a less elaborate shape would
    work better.\r\n- Do you really need the leg in a in @? I can imagine a straight
    ending without crotch would be better.\r\n- The bowl on P should be bigger than
    R\r\n- left stroke on v is too strong\r\n...\r\n\r\nYou mentioned that it should
    work in print too. Is there a possiblity to have two versions of the font, one
    for screen and one for print? The requirements are very different, and you could
    be more adventureous with the print version, e.g. use the double-storey g and
    not stick to Mono-spaced. I am not sure that combining both in one font will give
    you the best result.\r\n\r\nI hope that helps :-)\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-30 00:49:53'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Veronika & Alessandro, \r\n\r\nThank you very much! \r\n\r\n I will set to
    work trying out these ideas. They do help.\r\n\r\nVeronika, since this face is
    meant to do really well only in b/w hinted bitmaps & in print I think it will
    be okay to leave it as one font. Hinting is remarkably powerful. That means the
    greyscale in mac/Quartz, font smoothing in Windows & Cleartype in Windows will
    probably be less than optimal. But I accept that. "
  created: '2006-11-30 00:59:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben,\r\nMost of my comments are echoed elsewhere but here goes anyway.\r\nFor
    one thing, the task is a very difficult one. The dilemma of fighting with the
    pixel grid while keeping a mono-width glyph set and any feeling for even spacing
    is like untieing six Gordian knots while blindfolded.\r\nThe double bowl g is
    too complex to deliver in this context.  There are just too many strokes to fit
    without getting dark and muddy.\r\nYou definitely need to add a pixel more spacing.
    All of your straightside-to-straightside pairings of glyphs (mn, np, dh, etc)
    are too tight and make black junctures. Straight sides need another pixel sidebearing
    except for cap M which is always a bear\u2014this of course means narrowing the
    glyphs. It is all robbing Peter to pay Paul with monowidths so it can\u2019t be
    perfect and just won\u2019t look that good in print unless you do a print version
    as well. The n and u need to be narrower as does the c. The j should be narrower
    but add all the space to the right side (look at \u201Cijk\u201D and see the bond
    to the k).\r\nI don\u2019t know how you started this but IMHO it would be best
    to do a straight pixel font first and then do the curves afterwards based on it.\r\n\r\nBest
    of luck on this noble endeavor Eben!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-30 16:52:53'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Hi Eben,\r\n\r\nI notice how narrow the widths are; in very small sizes,
    i looks right and everything else looks tight. Is there any chance of getting
    the basic character width to be greater? If not, then the constraint is very limiting.
    \r\n\r\nIf you want a 2-storey g try a simplified shape like one of Rudolf Koch's,
    as in Kabel. You get a distinct shape and narrow waist, but you don't have to
    cram 4 horizontal stems into such a tight area. I notice your current g descends
    farther than your y. If vertical space is at a premium, then you really dont need
    a 2-storey g. \r\n\r\nJ and j don't need to be narrower, they do need to be more
    centered. I think for coding, while differentiation is very much the first concern,
    the next most important concern is evening out the spacing. Moving j and J to
    the left would help them, and probably not damage their identity much. J could
    have a little serif on the right. I think the same should be done for r; the ear
    is so long and r snaps to the left in text. \r\n\r\nThe tightness and these issues
    of letters appearing to drift left or right are things you deal with a lot in
    developing bitmaps. I think Chris has the right idea; if you developed a set of
    balanced bitmaps that solve the spacing issues (one more pixel would really help),
    then the outlines would resolve themselves to some degree. Some of my suggestions
    would be very obvious if this were a bitmap you were working on; try making the
    small bitmap g and then make an outline for it. If the printed version looks looser,
    I think that's the cry for help from the bitmap. If coding is the purpose of this
    font, then onscreen performance is the main criterion. "
  created: '2006-11-30 17:26:43'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Hint for Type 1 as best I can & see if it\u2019s viable at all</em>\r\n\r\nthe
    new [[AFDKO]] has an auto hinter which is supposed to be the best thing since
    sliced bread. "
  created: '2006-12-01 03:23:29'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Paul, Yes! I saw that. I am going to try it out ASAP!\r\n\r\nMy powerbook
    died ( well, it may come back eventually ) and I am just getting back up to speed
    now. Also I had a typophile accound problem which was resolved today!\r\n\r\nSo,
    sorry it's taken so long,  Carl & Chris:  Thank you !\r\n\r\nI have decided to
    use a pitch 10 model like Fedra Sans mono & Luc(as). The ten pitch will have double
    pixel spacing at most sizes. My clent has agreed to try it. I can always craft
    a custom version of the face or a custom hinted version for him later if he doesn't
    like it.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-05 19:36:50'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "</cite>Someone needed to close the \"cite\" command.\r\nedit: That didn't
    work. So, I'm very sorry for a pointless post."
  created: '2006-12-08 03:43:02'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Nathanael, it's more effective to <a href="readme#help">contact a moderator
    directly</a> to solve this type of problem.
  created: '2006-12-12 20:33:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "It's coming back around soon. Here is a teaser.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/typophile_5102.gif]"
  created: '2007-01-03 02:22:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The i and l look like they are from a slab and the other glyphs from a sans.
    It is kind of jarring from what you show. It may look better as pixels on a text
    reader though. I assume you are still thinking of this as a progarammers font?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-03 15:35:04'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> The i and l look like they are from a slab and the other glyphs from
    a sans. It is kind of jarring from what you show. </cite> \r\n\r\nHmmm yes. I
    see what you mean. I have been looking at this kiund of thing long enough now
    that it seems normal to me. Happily I am good company with Lucida console, Consolas
    and Fedra Mono all doing similar stuff. Can you think of another way of handling
    the needs of the mono? I guess I could do something more OCR-B than OCR-A. Something
    with a bent tail on the 'el'. Or something like Monaco with it's almost z like
    shapes. Certainly that would distance the l from the 1 even further. I'll consider
    the bent l maybe...\r\n\r\n<cite>  still thinking of this as a progarammers font?
    </cite>\r\n\r\nYes, definitely. But if can look nice quite big on tshirts in 2008
    a la my prediction that would be fine too. ;-)\r\n\r\nHere it is in context:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/softdevsample_3687.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    need to give it more linespace as well."
  created: '2007-01-03 21:15:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If this is mostly a programmers font, I wouldn't worry about my slab comment.
    You have enough limitations with that already.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-03 22:09:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I will probably leave it as is- but apart from style issues ( extra points
    maybe ) where I think you certainly have a point there might be some value in
    ramping up the distiction between 1 (one) and l (el). I hope to have a nice PDf
    soon. Then you can decide what you think in a broader context.
  created: '2007-01-03 23:15:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Slabs help a monospaced font greatly reduce a much bigger problem: spacing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-03 23:15:34'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: And then there is the issue of visual balance & that n word. Much of a muchness
    that. I think that's why Luc(as) runs with the slabs in Consolas & < a href= "http://www.lucasfonts.com/index_neu.html">The
    Sans Mono</a>
  created: '2007-01-03 23:21:14'
- author:
    name: rgeorge
    picture: 112097
  body: "Eben, my hat is off to you.\r\n\r\nFor the last four years or so, I have
    been attempting very nearly the same task. I program for a living, and very quickly
    got fed up with looking at Courier and friends. I banged out a first draft, got
    a copy of MS VTT (for mac os 9!), and have been polishing and tweaking the font
    ever since.\r\n\r\nI use it as my main programming, email, and web page mono font,
    at first as motivation to keep improving it, but these days, more because I don't
    think it looks half bad.\r\n\r\nBut ... only in the last month or so have I run
    across Typophile. No sooner do I get here, of course, than I discover that this
    particular windmill already has lots of broken lances stuck in it, and I'm late
    to the party.\r\n\r\nI've now read through the various threads on monospaced type
    design now. It's great to recognize problems I've fought with myself addressed
    here (and, sometimes, feels affirming to see similar solutions to my own!)\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I hope it isn't too gauche to toss my own font up for review, here, in your topic.
    For your consideration, a gif of my terminal window, antialiased and not:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bakashell_3652.gif]\r\nand
    a much more thorough pdf sample, flaunting some of the hinting tricks, is at\r\nhttp://www.visi.com/~rgeorge/bakasample.pdf\r\n\r\n--
    R."
  created: '2007-01-04 04:56:48'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Wow, where I zigged you zagged. Considering that our aims are so similar
    and the range of options available to us so narrow it is quite refreshing to see
    all that variation. So many differences! At the request of my client I am gearing
    my font to light feeling punctation for instance. You are going heavy. Your g
    is intergesting. It looks like a Cedilla in part! Your asterisk is quite fine.
    It looks like your outlines are significantly geared to getting the bitmaps you
    want. Given all the differences what are your crits of my choices? After all,
    you are my target in theory!\r\n\r\nI suggest that you go ahead & start a new
    thread for comments related to your font. I expect there is a great deal that
    people would have to say about it. It's quite interesting. \r\nBut most importantly
    - people who are looking for your design will have focused/organized information.
    When you do, will you comment on what you think about the other options: Consolas
    & Lucida Console especially? Have you seem Fabrizo's font?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: rgeorge
      picture: 112097
    body: "Thanks, I think I will take your suggestion.\r\n\r\nAs for the other usual
      mono fonts, I didn't want to come across as too harsh or hubristic with a laundry
      list of each font and its flaws. But here's the short form. The problems usually
      come down to some set of:<ul><li> bitmap only, no outline\r\n<li> bad / no hinting,
      or hinting gives up at &lt; 12px (autoconverted type-1 hints are bad)\r\n<li>
      drawn to match a bitmap, possibly without any hinting\r\n<li> only looks good
      at particular pixel sizes\r\n<li> only looks good antialiased (I am one of the
      weird people who likes both antialiased and bitmap shapes, depending on context,
      and prefer fonts that work both ways)\r\n<li> a critical shape collision:\r\n
      \ flunks the O 0 o test\r\n  flunks the l i 1 | !  test\r\n  ambiguous punctuation:
      , . : ; ' ` \" [] {} () &lt; &gt;\r\n  letters too close: e @ a o D O g j rn
      m\r\n<li> just plain fugly, or only suitable as a \"techno\" display font. (Seriously.
      <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/ingrimayne/galexicamono/\">w</a> <a href=\"http://www.fontmenu.com/site/_program.html\">t</a>
      <a href=\"http://www.arcavia.com/Software/ProgFont/\">f</a>?)\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nOf
      course, nothing gets them all right. In particular, ProFont and its many close
      relatives sadden me: they start so well-intentioned, but then get drawn on a
      rigid grid to match the 12pt bitmap, and wind up looking like a game of PipeDream
      or a pile of garden hose. Even Pragmata, which hits most of the list, has a
      little of the no-contrast, auto-traced flavor about it.\r\n\r\nConsolas and
      Lucida Console flunk the non-antialiased test. Consolas looks very nice with
      ClearType, and pretty sorry without it. The LucidaSansTypewriter (== LucidaConsole?)
      I have on my machine here has NO hinting. Very strange. Too bad; it would match
      the Apple LucidaGrande that's all over the UI nicely.\r\n\r\nTo my surprise,
      the font that comes closest to the above laundry list so far is Monotype's QuickType
      Mono (comes with TurboTax, Quicken etc.) Designed for huge expanses of numbers,
      it's kinda boring, but it's nice and narrow, and hinted down to 6 pixels. A
      slashed or dotted zero would help. I don't think it's the same as the \"quicktype
      mono\" floating around the free font sites.\r\n\r\nI'll give Software Developer
      a closer look and more in-depth comments soon. also to come: a new topic talking
      up Baka, and not talking so much smack about the competition.\r\n\r\n-- R."
    children:
    - author:
        name: rgeorge
        picture: 112097
      body: "okay, now I've given sdv3.pdf a closer eye. Most of my comments' subjects
        are so subtle as to be invisible at screen sizes, outside a hinting goof.
        It looks like none will \"jump\" into an exaggerated position, which is good.
        (e.g. exaggerated contrast at a few sizes where different stem widths get
        out of phase.)\r\n\r\n'm' is the definitive trouble spot for this kind of
        font. The trade off between 'squished', lighter weight, and trespassing on
        neighbors is a tough one with no good answer, so I'll just suggest that its
        tops could be a little more curved. As it is, with increasing size, the upper-right
        corner pixel of 'n' will disappear long before the equivalent 'm' pixel does,
        without some annoying delta hints.\r\n\r\nInteresting that you have a 'twisted'
        eight where mine is strict vertical. I might experiment with that in my font.\r\nHuh.
        While () and [] have subtle vertical axis, {} is dead horizontal! probably
        invisible, but anything to keep {} and () distinct is good. Period and comma
        are nicely distinct.\r\nI like the #. It wants to be the party character.\r\n\r\nCurve
        ends of e.g. 'a', 'f', don't taper. Similar curves on 'c', 'e' etc. do. Is
        there a criterion? it looks like on 's' one does and one doesn't. Illusion?\r\nThe
        tapered megaserifs on i, j, l, I seem out of place with (e.g.) untapered f,
        g strokes. The i, l seem topheavy, leaning left a little. The leaning effect
        actually helps the j and J though.\r\nSomething about the upper curve of 'e'
        caught my eye, and I was about to say it felt poking up to the left... then
        I scrolled up, saw the white-on-black version, and it felt like it was poking
        up and to the right. Something doesn't quite match but I can't put my finger
        on how.\r\nThe nightmare diagonals of 'vwxyz' seem well matched. It looks
        like you lightened the 'w' mostly in the outer strokes; lightening the inner
        strokes too / instead might yield a more even antialiased render, with less
        of a \"hot spot\".\r\nThe inner left curve of '6' could be smoother where
        the bowl joins it. That's a tough curve to get. Likewise the '9'.\r\n\r\nIn
        fact... (/me goes back and looks again)\r\nAre any of those curves micro-tweaked
        to get a certain bitmap pixel on or off, pre-hinting? If so, that's a lot
        of trouble you don't need to put yourself through. TT hints can more than
        handle per-pixel adjustments.\r\n\r\nAnyway, that's all mostly guessing, without
        a programming trial. Like I said, most of the above won't even be visible
        at screen resolutions.\r\n\r\n-- R."
      created: '2007-01-04 22:53:19'
    created: '2007-01-04 19:21:22'
  created: '2007-01-04 06:09:25'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: Eben, except for the lower case k and lack of Cyrillic and Greek, this looks
    like Consolas. What is gained?
  created: '2007-01-05 00:54:06'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "The really big difference is that it will be hinted for b/w bitmaps from
    10-18pt on a mac & whatever that shakes out as on PC. I will have that sorted
    soon. \r\n\r\nSome other glyphs are significantly different too. Many of them
    are things like * $ & #. Some people may prefer them - or they may not.  These
    glyphs make a bigg difference to how the code feels.\r\n\r\nAlso the (*){*}[*]
    feel quiet which is unusual. Again maybe not what everybody wants but it's a difference
    that in programming may be more ( or less ) comfortble. \r\n\r\nIn print Consolas
    will feel like it is filling the word space more that this font will. Fedra being
    the opposite pole with even more regular gap spaces. Consolas has a bigger x height.
    My Caps & ascenders differ more than they do in Consolas. Consolas is more monoline
    & mine is more humanist/contrasted.\r\n\r\nAnd I think the forms 'feel' quite
    different when they print & on screen too. But will admit I may have an exagerated
    sense of that.\r\n\r\nDo you still program in non-monospaced (variable spaced)
    fonts? What do you use these days? Or have you started using Consolas? "
  created: '2007-01-05 02:11:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Oh, and I slash my zero the other way to keep Danish programmers happy.
  created: '2007-01-05 02:13:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Those pesky Danish programmers are a tough crowd to please :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-05 16:18:47'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: "I don't program. I use my own bitmap font for the text terminal, and Lucida
    Sans for everything else.\r\n\r\nI think somebody is ought to try and make a \"programmer's
    typeface\" which is not monospaced ... Has it been done?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: rgeorge
      picture: 112097
    body: "There are good reasons for sticking with mono, like terminal windows and
      page layout, and less good ones, like tradition.\r\n\r\nUsing non-mono type
      to program would have to somehow yield an immediate benefit greater than just
      \"it looks better\". I think it could work as part of a larger integration of
      meaningful typography and autoformatting into an IDE. Apple's taken a few baby
      steps in this direction in the AppleScript Editor, although you have to hit
      \"compile\" before you see the results. IntelliJ IDEA has wonderful, extensive
      language-aware changes you can make to its editor formatting, although it limits
      you to one base type family at once for some reason.\r\n\r\nThis would be an
      interesting direction to experiment with in, e.g., Eclipse.\r\n\r\n-- R."
    created: '2007-01-05 21:11:50'
  created: '2007-01-05 18:46:48'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I don't think anyone has. Someone who wants to program and use something other
    than a mono has a TON of type to pick from. That would be a super small market
    I think. What is your bitmap font like?
  created: '2007-01-05 20:49:19'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: Reasons. Why does a terminal window have to have a fixed grid to require a
    monospaced typeface?
  created: '2007-01-14 22:06:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "One good reason I have often heard is that you can tell quickly if a line
    has too many characters in it in cases where the code is repetitive & the variance
    uses the same # of characters each time. Mono let's you spot the mistake quickly.
    I have heard other examples of 'at a glance' distictions made possible by the
    use of monospace when coding but I don't recall them in detail.\r\n\r\nI am feverishly
    working to unleash a new PDF on you guys in a few days. I have it all tested via
    laserprinter for eveness now except for some CE glypshs' diacritics and the new
    reverse 3 based ampersand which I have discovered looks fine(ish) in text but
    nearly disappears in the white foam of actual Perl code. \r\n\r\nI need a more
    distinctive form. I am going to avoid going back to the one I had because it was
    hard to hint. rgeorge: Yours is awefully clever looking I must say. Not so hard
    to hint! \r\n\r\nBTW Which is your first name? 'Rogers'?"
  created: '2007-01-30 08:07:08'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Please take a look at the PDF at the begining of the Post.\r\n\r\nHere are
    some GIf captures showing what it looks like on a Mac in a text editor at 4 sizes:
    13,12,11 & 48.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/13_4556.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/12_6164.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/11_5156.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/48_6574.gif]"
  created: '2007-02-02 01:44:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben,\r\nIs this the same PDF that you emailed me last night?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-02 15:09:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Yes.
  created: '2007-02-02 15:59:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben,\r\nIt looks much better. The lower case g is really better!\r\nMy main
    confusion is with the ligatures--why do you need them? Doesn't this defeat the
    purpose of monospace? They also just don't work visually to me. It may be impossible
    to fit double f in the space of single f and not look squashed and forced.\r\nBecause
    it is a monospace, you will always have more difficulty with glyphs like ae and
    oe. I can't think of any better solution than what you have.\r\nI really like
    the figures. They are very clean and distinguishable.\r\n\r\nGood Job!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-02 16:43:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Looking cool. Just one thing: the \"e\" is the most frequent letter in English,
    so the blur in the crossbar (in the 12 and 11 point renderings above) needs fixing!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-02 18:20:55'
- author:
    name: rgeorge
    picture: 112097
  body: "Hmm. I thought OS X turned off hinting when antialiasing, but there's a glitch
    I would normally attribute to strange hinting behavior: in the 12pt, the dots
    on 'i' and 'j' shift to the right one pixel more or less randomly.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    I should whip up a 1-char font with wacky hints that will display what the rasterizer's
    actually up to.\r\n\r\n(oh, and my first name is \"Rogers.\" Really!)\r\n\r\n--
    R."
  created: '2007-02-02 18:50:41'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Chris, about the ligatures; I agree that the ff & fl ligatures make litle
    sense in principle but it was fun to do them. And I don't want to tell a designer
    what to do. In the case of 'ij' 'ae' or 'oe' I think there is perhaps a real language
    or orthographical reason to include them. I am still looking to see how Unicode
    handles things like 'dz'\r\n\r\nHrant, thanks! Your right, I will have to check
    if the type 1 hints can help me beat that or if I am better of moving the bar
    on the e & now that I look again the 'a' to. I think 13 is the likeliest size
    to be used on a mac. \r\n\r\nRogers, OSX gives you the ability to turn smoothing
    on below 12 but not to turn it off above 12. So I can look at it both ways in
    12 but not say 13.\r\n\r\nI will post some shots of what it does at 11 & 12 with
    smoothing turned off in OSX. It isn't perfect because it's not formally hinted
    yet but when the outlines are resolved that task will be next. \r\n\r\nI just
    realized that while I think TT hinting isn't used for the smoothed rendering of
    fonts in OSX I think TT hinting is probably used for the non-smoothed B/W. Anybody
    know the answer to that? Maybe you have to include bitmaps if you want that dealt
    with in OSX.  I will find out! \r\n\r\nI know that for bw/unsmoothed text in all
    versions of Windows TT hinting is *the* relevant model. And I am 98% sure that's
    true for both flavors of smoothed text as well. However I don't think I am going
    to be hinting this for cleartype on the PC side. ;-)  Regular hints for the b/w
    will have to do I think."
  created: '2007-02-02 19:48:14'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> there\u2019s a glitch I would normally attribute to strange hinting
    behavior: in the 12pt, the dots on \u2018i\u2019 and \u2018j\u2019 shift to the
    right one pixel more or less randomly. </cite>\r\n\r\nDo you mean in general,
    or in this font's screen grabs? "
  created: '2007-02-02 19:50:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...In the case of \u2018ij\u2019 \u2018ae\u2019 or \u2018oe\u2019 I think
    there is perhaps a real language or orthographical reason to include them. I am
    still looking to see how Unicode handles things like \u2018dz\u2019\"\r\n\r\nI
    agree, those are glyphs, not ligatures. They even have a Unicode ID. By all means,
    include them. They are needed characters of languages.\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-02 20:00:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It turns out that OSX does use hinting for 1-bit rendering, and a user can
    change the threshold at which smoothing is turned off. BUT: the threshold's max
    is 12, which is not very high at all; the default setting is 8, which is tiny;
    users pretty much never change settings like that anyway.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-02 20:28:01'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Threshold: Yes, and you can decide how much smoothing to ask for as well,
    I had mine set at Medium for flat panel. It was a kind of worst case scenario
    for this font.\r\n\r\nUnicode: There are also Unicode holders for ff & fl. But
    As far as I can tell no holders for some digraphs such as sz used in Hungarian.
    In open type you could offer a contextual altrenate that is automatic or user
    selected. Have you looked at Fedra mono? His PDF is helpful. What he did for the
    Post script is to have an alternative or expert font. Choosing r and selecting
    exper will give you the digraph rr for instance. I am also confused about rr in
    spanish and or catalan. Is that a real digraph? I tried looking it up on google
    but so far no luck. Also no unicode holder yet. Google thinks it's rr fosr a start
    not a digraph. The impression I have is that under cultural pressue some digraphs
    die out. And then there are the irish letters...  In any event I will get my head
    wrapped around this properly soon.\r\n\r\nHere are some bw examples. Obviously
    on some level they are horrible because they are not tweaked at all. But I have
    to admit to being a little happy about where I am starting from. If anybody has
    opionins or suggestions about how to handle the hinting feel free to speak up.
    I noticed that many classic screen fonts end up offering the same pixels at some
    sizes say 11 & 12 for instance. This seems pragmatic to me - not because it's
    less work. It isn't - but because it means that 11 can be more useful with 12's
    x height. In means not being non-linear but I think that seems like the more user
    freindly trade off to make. What do you think? I plan to stop hinting at 9 pt.\r\n\r\n12pt\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bw12_5896.gif]\r\n\r\n11pt\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bw11_6520.gif]\r\n\r\n10pt\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bw10_6493.gif]\r\n\r\n9pt.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bw9_4870.gif]"
  created: '2007-02-02 21:48:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben,\r\nHere are the unicode listing for the two-part glyphs: uni01C4 uni01C5
    uni01C6 uni01C7 uni01C8 uni01C9 uni01CA uni01CB uni01CC"
  created: '2007-02-02 22:08:49'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Thanks very much!
  created: '2007-02-02 22:15:43'
- author:
    name: Raphael Daudelin
  body: "Dear Eben \r\nIt's such a colossal work you are into, with so many of technical
    limitations. I'm not familiar with so many of these technical issues regarding
    your font, that it's hard for me to comment. I'm designing fonts as a graphic
    designer who has an ever-lasting love for typography, mainly because I design
    lots of books, catalogues, etc. That means I'm drawing lots of glyphs for specific
    projects, but I never edited a complete font in Fontlab. \r\n\r\nFEED-Mono is
    intended for a personal use \u2013 it would be part of our studio branding \u2013
    is intended for print. It was also a good pretext to put myself into Fontlab.\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/31145\r\n\r\nBut
    after looking at your the last posts of this thread, my main concern is about
    the r. Someone already told you this, but I really think you should add a serif
    to it, the spacing would be much better."
  created: '2007-02-08 19:41:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Thanks Raphael!
  created: '2007-02-08 20:04:58'
- author:
    name: rgeorge
    picture: 112097
  body: "\"..OSX gives you the ability to turn smoothing on below 12 but not to turn
    it off above 12. So I can look at it both ways in 12 but not say 13.\"\r\n\r\nhmm,
    I'm late, but I have an answer here. Two useful tricks:\r\n\r\nTerminal.app will
    happily display type any size you like, with or without antialiasing, whatever
    the system settings. Make a sample file with textEdit, save it as plain-text in
    your home dir, let's say filename \"sample.txt\". Open up Terminal.app, size it
    conveniently, and type\r\n<code>cat sample.txt</code>\r\nPoof! Instant screenshot
    fodder. Since there are size+- hotkeys, I used Terminal extensively tweaking the
    hints of my own font.\r\n\r\nFor the slightly braver, open up Terminal.app and
    type\r\n<code>defaults write 'Apple Global Domain' AppleAntiAliasingThreshold
    14</code>\r\nThis sets the system-wide antialiasing threshold to 14pt. Any number
    from 1 to 128 will work.\r\n\r\n-- R."
  created: '2007-03-03 04:35:46'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "VERY COOL.\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\n-e."
  created: '2007-03-03 05:56:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey, that's some great trickery! I'll have to test it out. Thanks!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-04 21:03:19'
- author:
    name: Tpjam
  body: "It is old, but really looks pretty good to me, I using the latest <a href=\"http://www.softsea.com/review/FontViewer.html\">FontViewer</a>
    to browse, it is very beautiful.  \r\n, Thanks.\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-16 09:35:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I should give an update and say that the forms have all changed since this
    thread was last added to by me and it is looking a great deal better not least
    because of the improved r with a serif. I expect to push it into the world in
    a year and half or so depending on if I tinker with it here at Reading.
  created: '2008-09-29 19:35:13'
date: '2006-11-28 07:55:42'
title: Software Developer - the pleasant monospace

---
