---
author:
  name: missgiggles
  picture: 111889
body: what purpose does it convey? is there specific reasons as to why they still
  around after so many centuries? what kept them alive? who kept them alive and for
  what purpose?
comments:
- author:
    name: Ringo
    picture: 111223
  body: Is there any reason not to use it?
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: 'just wondering how and why its lasted so long? what kept it going? '
    created: '2006-12-01 13:42:36'
  created: '2006-12-01 13:29:28'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: The need of spreading old good books, for example, so that Giggles can read
    them ?
  created: '2006-12-01 14:00:36'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: what have you got against the poor serif, miss g? it seems that you've got
    a vendetta against the poor thing!
  created: '2006-12-01 14:38:06'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Paul you read my mind. Miss G seems to be on a personal mission to do away
    with the serif. And didn't she already ask this question (in one way or another)\r\n\r\nEasier
    to read, more formal, classic. Reading a novel or a newspaper in sans would make
    your eyes hurt. No matter how beautiful the font."
  created: '2006-12-01 14:45:40'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Miss G, in addition to defending the serif which you seem so eager to consign
    to the dust heap of history, I'd also like to recommend you acquaint yourself
    with another archaic throwback to an earlier era, the Shift key. It's just to
    the left of the z on your keyboard. Like the serif, it can make your text more
    reader friendly.
  created: '2006-12-01 15:36:29'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: missgiggles seems to suffer from [[seriphobia]].
  created: '2006-12-01 16:36:06'
- author:
    name: kristin
    picture: 110305
  body: "I keep wondering why I still use my voice. \r\n\r\nI type much faster than
    I speak. There are excellent synthesizers out there with much better diction and
    volume than I manage. I'd be far more effective if I sounded like that \"in a
    world\" guy from the movie trailers. Why am I still using my voice?"
  created: '2006-12-01 16:44:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Easier to read, more formal, classic. \r\n\r\nTriple bingo.\r\n\r\nOn the
    other hand:\r\n1) Some people use it out of pretension (although the same applies
    to sans).\r\n2) We should find out as much as possible concerning why it helps
    reading.\r\n\r\nLong live the serif!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-01 16:55:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Kristen,\r\nJust keep singing instead of talking :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-01 16:58:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Why am I still using my voice?</em>\r\n\r\nIt has the most unique personality?"
  created: '2006-12-01 17:00:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "On the other hand, clients and their users are not really interested in the
    designer's personality (at least not explicitly) which is fine because if they
    are I'd worry. We have enough problems with the cult of personality in the west
    without obsessing about it in the design of useful things.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-01 17:05:29'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Why do we keep taking the bait?
  created: '2006-12-01 17:27:59'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Miss Giggles, if you could articulate all of your thoughts into one cohesive
    statement -- even if it is several paragraphs long -- we might understand where
    you are coming from.\r\n\r\nThe serif isn't a problem. Heaven forbid the day when
    we only have sans to choose from. I for one, as a graphic designer and typographer,
    would lash out and rebel should this happen. I relish have choice, even if it
    is a subtle choice between serif and sans. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: "okay Tiffany, the whole point of asking thsi question was because i am
      trying to figure out the development of the serif from the Romans to the Runaissance
      and beyond to this day and trying to analyse the whole developing process ofit
      and how its been expanding etc. i have major events that i have pin pointed
      which are very important to the serif development like:\r\n- Roman inscriptions,stone
      chiselled serif letters.\r\n- Trajan column\r\n-Roman numerals\r\n-Tory Geoffory
      (student of Leonardo da Vinci and Durer) who designed serif with great precision.\r\n-Classical
      fonts like Garamond, Bembo, Caslon, Didot, Baskerville, Times, Bodoni and trying
      to understand how they expanded into the type families they are today but i'm
      missing information beyond Renaissance so i'm wondering what happened between
      then and now? What major developments took place? and why and how the serif
      is used today. thats all. i guess i should have said all this in the first place
      rather than ask separate questions. sorry people."
    created: '2006-12-01 18:12:07'
  created: '2006-12-01 17:35:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>personality</em>\r\n\r\nSometimes a cigar is just a cigar, not a bare
    neck prompting axe grinding."
  created: '2006-12-01 17:56:44'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I don't actually get from miss g. that she wants the serif gone. They are
    questions. It sounds like she wants to understand why the tradition is so strong.
    \r\n\r\nSo, Miss G, here are some clues: Tradition?, \"Who Kept Them Alive\",
    and \"For What Purpose\".... Those are your best questions to ask. Unfortunately
    none of us can rattle off textbook answers. It's easier to explain where they
    came from and how they changed over the centuries, but this question of \"why\"
    is kind of unanswerable. \r\n\r\nWorth noting: there were those in the early 20th
    century who predicted it would be the century of the sans serif. They were correct.
    Look at the type from 1900-2000. However, if they also said or implied that the
    serif would go away forever, they were wrong. Look at the type of 1950-2006. \r\n\r\nThe
    pluralism of graphic options could be seen as biodiversity; users of type tend
    to want a lot of variety once they realize they can have choices. Even if we can't
    explain the purpose of serifs, they seem to satisfy something very basic for us;
    you'd have a revolution on your hands if you tried to ban serifed type. Clearly
    they are not \"vestigial\" or unnecessary as some have proposed. If they are,
    then it's tradition keeping them alive. \r\n\r\nExpecting only the \"most functional\"
    type to survive is probably misguided."
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: 'crossgrove, i dont want a ban on serifs. why would i want that for? its
      probably the tone of voice that i have conveyed in my question that made you
      think that. is liek you said: who kept them alive and for what purpose is what
      i am really after. how come it is still living strong after so many centuries,
      tahst all. sorry for the misunderstanding.'
    created: '2006-12-01 18:36:19'
  created: '2006-12-01 18:20:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Runaissance\r\n\r\nAh, new satirical term: Renuisance Man.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-01 18:29:34'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'No, <strong>I</strong> don''t think that. Read the thread; <strong>everyone
    else</strong> seems to think that. I''m trying to answer your questions as you''ve
    asked them. Is there static on this line? '
  created: '2006-12-01 18:41:54'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Miss Giggles that is such a broad question! Simple answer: the serif still
    alive because people like it and it's easy to read. And appropriate, visually,
    to a broad range of applications. Sometimes the sans is simply too hard edged,
    cold, or modern to work properly. Why overthink?\r\n\r\nNot to mention that design
    - like everything else - is cyclical. Things fall out of fashion, get revived
    and dusted off and have a new life. The trends that endure are those that are
    timeless and not too tied to a specific era or movement. Like the good pair of
    boots that you wear year after year because they are comfortable and durable and
    go with everything.\r\n\r\nBut of course there's also room for a pair of pink
    sparkly pumps to liven things up on occasion."
  created: '2006-12-01 18:45:53'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'untested hypothesis: serifs produce better [[bouma|boumas]].'
  created: '2006-12-01 19:00:14'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Designing anything that is meant to be read is necessarily conservative.
    The reading public has little tolerance for innovation, and besides historically
    most innovations have owed as much to changes in technology as to the desires
    of type designers to express their personality, if not more.\r\n\r\nDifferent
    type styles, different letterforms, or different writing systems altogether may
    be vastly superior in readability, but the reading public comes with a strongly
    built-in bias towards what it is accustomed to.\r\n\r\nSo if serif faces have
    been used in setting Roman text for centuries, the question to ask is not why
    is it still used today, but why innovations are introduced at all. The history
    of type for immersive reading really is about these little innovations that somehow
    defy the staticity and inertia of the reading public's preferences, whatever the
    reasons behind them might be.\r\n\r\nSo in short, it is not that people have worked
    hard to keep the serif alive all this time. It would have been much, much harder
    to force people to abandon the serif."
  created: '2006-12-01 19:04:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think the conservativeness of the reading public is generally over-stated,
    and it's entirely possible to deploy innovation that \"flies under the radar\"
    of possible conscious layman rejection.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-01 19:57:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> ...type designers to express their personality...</em>\r\n\r\nWhat I
    meant was the personality of the typeface, eg its individuality.\r\n\r\nWith serifs,
    it's possible to also incorporate stroke variation in a type design, without getting
    excessive sparkle. Stroke variation, not necessarily for reading functionality,
    but as a means of providing variety of personality in at typeface.\r\n\r\nSo,
    serif faces have more personality than sans serifs, more options for variety --
    which can be use by typographers to match the variety of uses, the different personalities
    of products, of typographers, and of different media.\r\n\r\nOf course, if you're
    a really good graphic designer, you can use Helvetica for everything and make
    it look brilliant all the time.~\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-01 19:59:59'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Miss Giggles, have you happened to read any of the suggested books yet?
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: yes i have but origin of serif is on it's way but they all make me cinfused
      coz i'm reading too much and forgetting what goes where and i cant relate things
      together and link them coz there's just too much history to read. i'm trying
      my best though.i have 7 books im reading all on typography and history and they
      got different dates to somethings though so i dont know what it should be but
      i do my best. am i asking questions that are unreasonable? is that why u asking?
    created: '2006-12-01 23:29:42'
  created: '2006-12-01 21:36:18'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "<em>Renuisance Man.</em> \r\nThanks hrant, that put me into ... helpless
    giggles. "
  created: '2006-12-01 22:08:10'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Why do we keep taking the bait?</cite>\r\n\r\nBecause there's nothing
    good on TV, at least not until Inside Washington at 8:30. I can't decide what's
    funnier; Krauhammer's insanity, Totenberg's outfits, or Miss Giggles baiting people
    into a conversation about the worth of serifs.\r\n\r\n<cite>yes i have but origin
    of serif is on it\u2019s way but they all make me cinfused coz i\u2019m reading
    too much and forgetting what goes where and i cant relate things together and
    link them coz there\u2019s just too much history to read</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's
    not hard to identify with. I find reading design books one at a time has become
    a necessity.\r\n\r\n<cite>am i asking questions that are unreasonable? is that
    why u asking?</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't think it's necessarily the questions you ask,
    but the way you ask them. They tend to be written like above-average text messages,
    which makes them rather offbeat for typophile, as well as a little confusing.
    \ "
  created: '2006-12-02 00:12:15'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Miss Giggles, when I have done historical writing and I  needed to track a
    timeline I used small postcards and would write the date (year) at the top large,
    and then the event smaller underneath it. After a while I was able to see a timeline
    form because of these dates. You might try that. You can tape them to your wall,
    move them around, add more information as you find it. Very useful.
  created: '2006-12-02 00:22:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Post-it-notes work well for me with convoluted project management timelines,
    why not type history too?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-02 00:25:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Chaplin-falling-for-it_5379.png]'
  created: '2006-12-02 01:33:25'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Good answer, Dez.
  created: '2006-12-02 01:35:43'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Why do we keep taking the bait?</em>\r\n\r\nBecause some people have
    a pathological need to respond to obviously stupid questions.\r\n\r\nGiggles is
    wasting time and bandwidth, folks. Do what most of have done: ignore her....\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: "'Giggles is wasting time and bandwidth, folks. Do what most of have done:
      ignore her\u2026.' \r\nFine Miss Cunningham! If you think your so good then
      why do you even bother with my questions? Dont if you dont want to! no ones
      telling you to and it's not my fault i haven't reached your level of knowledge
      in typography so stop being so nasty. Bet you were worst than me at my level.
      Leave me alone and stop bullying! Were you never told that bullying was wrong
      and nasty? Dear me, even i know that and anyway, who said this site is ONLY
      for people at the top end of typography? i have i right to be on here just as
      much as you do no matter what level. By the way, remember- students ARE the
      future designers."
    created: '2006-12-08 22:20:32'
  created: '2006-12-02 03:47:47'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: LOL
  created: '2006-12-02 04:46:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Is she really that bad?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-02 04:46:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Sure her questions are naive, but that can be refreshing. I found "Are there
    movements..." quite thought-provoking. '
  created: '2006-12-02 05:56:07'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "For your purpose question I would suggest that you try carving some characters
    in stone, explore in a physical way why serifs might be practical to a carver,
    you don't have to be skilled to reach some conclusions. You also can't discard
    the aesthetic, it needn't be entirely practical that a character is shaped the
    way it is, despite the base shape having an established form. Also don't assume
    that all Roman writing used serifs, stone is not indestructible but it has longevity
    advantages over other mediums.\r\n\r\nPerhaps you should look at your question
    from another direction, why did sans come about; what purpose did it serve; were
    there any technological advances that might have contributed to it; also why,
    if you have a choice, would you remove one of your options &c. &c.\r\n\r\nFor
    a timeline you could look here\r\nhttp://www.xs4all.nl/~knops/timetab.html\r\n\r\nbtw
    Geofroy Tory are you sure he was a student of both da Vinci and D\xFCrer or do
    you mean he studied their work?\r\n\r\nTim "
  created: '2006-12-02 11:57:32'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">from the Romans to the Renaissance and beyond to this day\r\n\r\n>\u201CWho
    Kept Them Alive\u201D, and \u201CFor What Purpose\u201D\r\n\r\nMaybe there is
    a textbook answer, if there can be such a thing outside of the existence of said
    textbook. \r\n\r\nIt's not just the *serifs*, but the forms of serif designs which
    bring a unique thing to type. This unique thing comes from the details of designs
    of the serif -ed type which allow the differentiation of features between characters
    more broadly than most sans serif designs are capable of, (without looking like
    you just cut serifs off;). And thus, it is thought by this uniqueness in detail
    that  serif designs aid the reading process for some people in some documents.
    \r\n\r\nThe serifs in particular, and for the most part, are part of our familiarity
    with the rest of the serif forms they are attached to, so, for the most part,
    we *kept* them for reading purposes. But then, as time went by, broader uses of
    the serif style came along as signage and book work sought timeless and classical
    appearances.\r\n\r\n>Renaissance and beyond to this day\r\nMy milestones are:\r\n1.
    Design of Romans suited for letterpress.\r\n2. Design of Romans for mass and personal
    mechanical composition.\r\n3. Legibility Series by Linotype.\r\n4. Democratization
    of the Romans by PostScript/Fontographer.\r\n\r\nEr@least that's what I think.
    Cheers!"
  created: '2006-12-02 16:37:06'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Giggles is wasting time and bandwidth, folks. Do what most of have done:
    ignore her\u2026.</em>\r\n\r\nOuch, Linda! :) But as James said, its not so much
    what questions she asks, as how she asks them. However thought provoking the questions
    are, many are not complete thoughts, or complete sentences. Asking questions is
    not a stream of consciousness writing exercise in a chat room. There have been
    way too many good, intelligent well formulated questions that have been asked
    on Typophile that have been virtually ignored. \r\n\r\nI don't understand why
    many of you are so patient with someone who doesn't even attempt to capitalize
    or punctuate sentences properly, while many great questions and good portions
    of the critique section get treated like a red-headed stepchild. There are too
    many people who come on Typohpile who work hard at finding the answers, before
    they ask them."
  created: '2006-12-02 17:26:09'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "I think this is a terrific and fundamental topic. It\u2019s incurious to
    dismiss it.\r\n\r\nI agree with others that the Catich\u2019s The Origin of the
    Serif is a worthwhile book. He makes a compelling argument that serifs did not
    come from stone cutting. My two sentence summary is that serifs are a result of
    reed writing. The reeds were cut at a slant to allow a writer to have vertical
    stems that were thicker than horizontal stems (to compensate for a visual perception
    illusion). Serifs on the left side of a letter were necessary for even ink distribution
    across the reed while the right side serifs were needed to keep the ink from smudging.\r\n\r\nNo
    matter what the origin of the serif, I think it\u2019s an interesting question
    to ask why it\u2019s around today. Some propose that it improves word recognition,
    though I have not seen compelling evidence that serifs help or hinder word recognition.
    Some claim that the serifs help draw the reader\u2019s eye across a line of text.
    I agree with Nick that the most plausible explanation is to convey personality
    differences.\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-02 19:24:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">The reeds were cut at a slant to allow a writer to have vertical stems that
    were thicker than horizontal stems (to compensate for a visual perception illusion).\r\n\r\nI
    don't think this can be correct as the Aramaic script, now used for Hebrew, is
    very ancient, is pen written, and has thick horizontals and thin verticals, the
    opposite of latin script. It also has serifs, though they are generally vertical.
    I agree that serifs are a natural result of writing with a pen. "
  created: '2006-12-02 19:38:40'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: ">Some claim that the serifs help draw the reader\u2019s eye across a line
    of text. \r\n\r\nI agree with this, an important point to me.\r\n\r\n>With serifs,
    it\u2019s possible to also incorporate stroke variation in a type design, without
    getting excessive sparkle.\r\n\r\nYes! I never liked Optima that much\u2026\r\n\r\nSerifs
    can reduce the \"gap\" between the letters or in other words, helping to connect
    the different letterforms and at the same time, helping to separate the letterforms
    from eachother \u2013 don't know if somebody can follow me \u2013 ok, i'm far
    from being a scientist or typedesigner. I just love antiquas and love to read
    it! \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-02 20:57:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">if somebody can follow me\r\n\r\nYes, I have argued a similar point here
    before. My argument is that serifs can achieve adequate space between letters
    while achieving even color. With a sans, you tend to have to tighten the spacing
    to get even color--to the point that it hurts readability, expecially in faces
    with wide counters, like Helvetica. (The ratio between the space within counters
    and between letters is important to readability.)\r\n\r\nI suspect that there
    are other benefits as well, such as defining the  line of text clearly, and others.
    \r\n\r\nI "
  created: '2006-12-02 21:07:31'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"Some claim that the serifs help draw the reader\u2019s eye across a line
    of text.\"\r\n\r\nThis is what I'm calling logicalistic; It sounds like it's logical
    but it's only a convenient supposition that is generally accepted in place of
    an explanation. It isn't an explanation at all. \r\n\r\nHas it occurred to you
    that the line of text itself, the alignment of the typeface and its spacing draw
    your eye across? Look at a page of text. The letters aren't all in a jumble, equidistant
    from each other in every direction. They're in lines already. What about your
    lifetime habit of reading left to right? Could that help \"guide the eye\"? Or
    Notan, gelling letters into words? Could any of these obviously functional realities
    have any more bearing on reading than this fantasy rightward momentum? Finally,
    How about the fact (!!) that we read in saccades? If that's true, and we have
    space between lines of text, and the typeface is well-spaced, then why would we
    need serifs to \"guide\" our eyes? \r\n\r\nThis is too much like the persistent
    human tendency to anthropomorphize animal behavior, because it's convenient. Since
    an ostrich can't tell you their real motivations and impulses, you can conveniently
    project your own neuroses and blindnesses on it. Since there isn't a dazzling
    scientific factoid to replace it, we can continue to chant this silliness about
    serifs guiding the eye. \r\n\r\n\"With a sans, you tend to have to tighten the
    spacing to get even color\u2014to the point that it hurts readability, expecially
    in faces with wide counters, like Helvetica.\"\r\n\r\nBill, Helvetica is badly
    spaced. Other grotesque sans designs are not. Then there are the other categories
    of sans. The lack of serifs doesn't compel a type designer to space a typeface
    tightly. This is more paralogic, something to say that fills the space where a
    real explanation should go. When you design a sans typeface you can revisit this
    idea.  \r\n\r\n\"With serifs, it\u2019s possible to also incorporate stroke variation
    in a type design, without getting excessive sparkle\"\r\n\r\nHogwash. Optima isn't
    the only sans with contrast. Another logicalistic leap. \r\n\r\nI am perfectly
    willing to believe that serifs have a function, but hearing people parrot the
    same, logicalistic idea is just more hot air at this point. Kevin, who is a reading
    scientist, has already pointed out that nothing supports these theories. If he's
    not convinced, why are you?  I'm sorry if this sounds harsh, but people need to
    think harder about this. "
  created: '2006-12-02 22:24:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Hogwash. Optima isn\u2019t the only sans with contrast. Another logicalistic
    leap.</em>\r\n\r\nNot at all. Perhaps I should have qualified \"incorporate\"
    by \"easily\", though.  \r\n\r\nWhy there are so few sans faces with contrast,
    compared to the masses of serifed faces with contrast? The fact is, the combination
    of serifs with contrasted strokes provides a huge canvas for creating all kinds
    of stylistic variety.\r\nSure, contrasted sans faces are possible, and can be
    effective (as you have demonstrated with Beorcana), but the genre is small because
    it is problematic. It is difficult to make an effective contrasted sans, but just
    add serifs, and it makes things a lot easier. There is nothing \"logicalistic\"
    about this line of reasoning, and it has nothing to do with reading science, as
    sparkle is a phenomenon which predates that considerably (going back at least
    to Ben Franklin's Caslon-Baskerville prank). My observation is \"practicalistic\"
    and based on typology and type culture.\r\n\r\nThe smallness of the slab serif
    genre also bears this out: there is not so much design room in the genre for stroke
    contrast between the main stems and the serifs, because the serifs are already
    substantial. So again, lack of stroke contrast = small genre."
  created: '2006-12-02 23:08:08'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "[[Adrian Frutiger]] makes some interesting associations regarding the development
    and acceptance of sans serif designs in his article, <em><a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/2258-16893/thelosspart1.html\"
    target=\"new\">The History of Linear, Sans Serif Typefaces</a></em>:\r\n\r\n<em>It
    was not until the birth of modernism that architects ventured to introduce a naked
    column, made of concrete. The fear that a line without boundaries might flow on
    forever gave way to a worldview defined by rationality \u2013 heralding the beginning
    of widespread use of sans serif typefaces</em>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/feet_serifs_6284.jpg]\r\nBut
    for my part, I believe the sustained use (and further development) of serif and
    script designs have more to do about humanistic sensibilities much in the same
    way we relate to \"practical\" versus \"fashionable\" choices in clothing (or
    as Hrant would point out, shoe styles).\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fashion_faces_4926.jpg]"
  created: '2006-12-02 23:08:29'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "@crossgrove\r\n\r\nIf something displays in a horizontal direction (serifs)
    on the same line (in vertical position) over and over again \u2013 to what effect
    can it lead to?\r\n\r\n- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - is this a line?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-02 23:28:15'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'If something has a lot of horizontal direction, that doesn''t make it type.
    Type is made of more than serifs. What are you talking about? '
  created: '2006-12-02 23:33:18'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: ">Some claim that the serifs help draw the reader\u2019s eye across a line
    of text.\r\nAbout this"
  created: '2006-12-02 23:34:24'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Please explain your point clearly. It sounds as if you think a series of
    dashes is a sentence, or that horizontal serifs are more important than any other
    feature of a typeface, or than the mechanism of reading. '
  created: '2006-12-02 23:47:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ">Some claim that the serifs help draw the reader\u2019s eye across a line
    of text.\r\n\r\nBut it could just as well draw the eye in the other direction?
    I have no idea if serifs perform a readability function or if they do, how they
    might work. I have yet to see any convincing evidence one way or the other. I
    have seen conjecture and leaps in logic from counting eye movements, nothing more.\r\nI
    don't find it to be a problem though and like both sans and serif faces if they
    are well done. I don't feel a need to ether \"kill the serif\" or crown it as
    omnipotent king.\r\nI think that human perception and adaptability are quite amazing
    though. Humans can read such a broad spectrum of seemingly disparate forms and
    actually make sense of them. Multilingual readers are particularly interesting
    to me--especially when they can read different scripts, not just typefaces and
    poorly rendered handwriting. I find it hard to believe that the serif plays that
    big of a role in any of it other than they have been around for 2000 or more years.
    Before the attacks start, I might clarify that I am not saying it is not possible,
    I am just saying that I find it hard to believe and would need far, far, better
    proof than has come to light so far.  As I said in another similar thread--we
    have to look in more places than where someone has conveniently placed a light
    to find the answer.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-02 23:53:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">The lack of serifs doesn\u2019t compel a type designer to space a typeface
    tightly. This is more paralogic, something to say that fills the space where a
    real explanation should go. When you design a sans typeface you can revisit this
    idea.\r\n\r\nI don't do 'logicalistic'--whatever that is :) \r\n\r\nI make hypotheses,
    guesses. In this case they are inspired by what I have read and tried to learn
    by looking. I'm sure if and when I try a sans design, I'll learn a lot more. Also
    I think you have done new stuff with Beorcana that has helped readability, and
    I'd like to learn from you. So tell me where the following go wrong, which are
    the sources of my inspiration and guesses. \r\n\r\nIn his famous chapter on spacing,
    Walter Tracy says:\r\n\r\n\"The serifs at the four corners of the H make a linking
    effect with adjacent letters. Because they are absent in a sans-serif type the
    side-spaces of a sans-serif H have to be narrower than those in a seriffed face.\"\r\n\r\nMaybe
    Tracy is a 'paralogician', and wrong, but he did know both from his own and other's
    experience in drawing and producing both sans and seriffed types. \r\n\r\nTracy
    also recommends that the spacing be proportional to the width of the counters
    in the H and n. My observation is that narrower fonts, like Meta, seem to work
    better in text. Hence my hypothesis that the need for tighter spacing in a sans
    throws evenly spaced, wide sans faces off, as far as text goes. \r\n\r\nOn the
    issue of \"defining the line,\" I base this on the common view, confirmed by my
    own experience, that generally sans need more leading. Here for example is Bringhurst:
    \"And unserifed faces often need more lead (or a shorter line) than their seriffed
    counterparts.\"\r\n\r\nThe reason for the need for more leading or a shorter line,
    according to my hypothesis, is that the serifs help the reader more easily keep
    his eye to that line, rather than jumping to another line by mistake. The longer
    the measure and less the leading, the more likely it is that this will happen
    to the reader. Serifs, it seems, help prevent this in that you can go generally
    further with the measure and tighter with the leading without getting problems.
    \ \r\n\r\nI don't know that these are right, but they seem to have some plausability.
    There isn't yet good testing, but there will be soon, I hope. \r\n\r\nIf you counter-examples
    to my hypotheses, by all means I'd like to hear them, and learn from them. "
  created: '2006-12-03 00:00:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\u201CThe serifs at the four corners of the H make a linking effect with
    adjacent letters. Because they are agbsent in a sans-serif type the side-spaces
    of a sans-serif H have to be narrower than those in a seriffed face.\u201D\r\n\r\nThis
    is true because of the affect of proximity of the serifs to each other. The lighter
    mass of a high contrast serif face makes for less darkness, therefore gives the
    illusion of more open space. The dominant sans faces are tightly spaced more likely
    because they were developed in the tight spacing era. Also, possibly because they
    were used for situations where tight fit was neeeded and serif faces overlap when
    spaced tightly. Besides, Tracy (in your quote) did not say anything about readability,
    he was just describing the mechanics.  Think of the serif as needing overshoot
    sideways.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-03 00:19:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>serifs help the reader more easily keep his eye to that line</em>\r\n\r\nConcerning
    the serifs on extenders, this is certainly a principal that I apply to news text,
    where the leading is often tight. I find it works best when the descenders have
    wide serifs (p, q), a wide bottom (g), and a curl or ball on the y and j. This
    forms a deterrent to ascenders and descenders forming vertical quasi-ligatures
    (\"islands\" -- a similar phenomenon to \"rivers\"). With the exception of the
    f, ascenders don't have such wide serifs, which maximizes clarity in the inter-line
    region. "
  created: '2006-12-03 00:48:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> people need to think harder about this.\r\n\r\nIndeed. Like that \"guide
    the eye\" business makes no sense at all.\r\nTry making your serifs arrow-shaped
    and see how far you get...\r\n\r\nAnd some people need to get their philosophies
    straight even before they begin to think about this at all. Statements like \"I
    have yet to see any convincing evidence\" are usually trench-digging tactics,
    and symptomatic of \"you can't get there from here\" in terms of understanding
    readability.\r\n\r\n> This forms a deterrent to ascenders and\r\n> descenders
    forming vertical quasi-ligatures \r\n\r\nInteresting, and seemingly valid.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-03 00:58:19'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I'm not convinced that the most plausible explanation for why serifs are
    still in use today is the added opportunities their presence affords for gestural-atmospheric
    ('personality') variation, though they do indeed afford that, or so it seems.\r\n\r\nMy
    own feeling about why they are still around is that, in the western script tradition,
    the presence of serifs contributes significantly to the optical-grammatical integrity
    of the word-object. In Gerrit Noordzij's terms, they support the consolidation
    of the word image. Serifs, I'll suggest, make the word-object less susceptible
    to what I've called letter-level 'componential abstraction' or 'slot-processing.'
    Less susceptible to 'response-bias collapse.' \r\n\r\n(It is my theory that the
    supercession of 'slot processing' is foundational to the aquisition of fluency
    in reading.) \r\n\r\nI suspect serifs make the word-object less susceptible to
    componential abstraction by giving greater definition to the whites between the
    letters than these whites receive in sans serif contexts, and by off-setting the
    visual formal self-enclosedness of letters within themselves. Remember, from my
    perspective, the whites inside and between letters inside bounded maps--which
    is what word-object are--are not 'ground,' they have con-figural status, as information
    for the visual cortex.\r\n\r\nOn my account, sans serif typography requires greater
    attention to perfect spacing to inhibit 'slot processing.' This is not an argument
    for or against sans serifs. Just a fact, or so it seems to me. To resist the collapse
    of the integrity of the word-object, the san serif is dependant either on rhythmic
    spacing or on tight spacing. Rhythmic spacing implies a synchronicity between
    the spaces inside and the spaces between letters. Tight spacing implies areas
    of strong lateral interference or crowding between letter parts that compromises
    their proper cue value, so is counter productive. I don't think tight spacing
    produces even colour either. The serif is more forgiving of less-than-perfect
    spacing. This is my experience, and fits my theory.\r\n\r\nSo I suggest looking
    at the persistence of serifs in the western script tradition from the point of
    their practical contribution to visual wordform resolution first, and the theoretical
    opportunities for gestural-atmospheric tuning they provide as a fringe benefit.
    [img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-12-03 01:27:43'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: 'I meant to add: there is no empirical evidence for these claims--just craft
    knowledge, everyday experience with texts and my own--hopefully adequately disciplined--intuitions
    about how perceptual processing works. Studies of how the Word Superiority Effect
    plays out in different spacing contexts with and without serifs, and for begining
    and experienced motivated readers might bear this out. '
  created: '2006-12-03 01:38:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The actual quote reads; \"I have yet to see any convincing evidence one way
    or the other.\"\r\n\r\nTactical omission of parts of quotes or taking them out
    of context  \"are usually trench-digging tactics, and symptomatic of\" a very
    biased opinion.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-03 01:50:58'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I don't propose to disprove anyone's hypothesis, or show Walter Tracy to
    be wrong. I'm not saying I have answers or that I can teach you. I want you to
    reconsider comfortable assumptions, and maybe advance the study of reading. As
    I said elsewhere, my goal isn't a final, case-closed answer, it's just improved
    understanding. Our understanding of reading and the role of type in reading is
    stale and impoverished. \r\n\r\n\"With a sans, you tend to have to tighten the
    spacing to get even color\u2014to the point that it hurts readability, expecially
    in faces with wide counters, like Helvetica.\"\r\n\r\nThis is not what Walter
    Tracy is saying. He makes the excellent point that the serifs act as implied connectors,
    a sort of glue. I consider this to be an important ingredient of \"Notan\". It
    doesn't necessarily follow that any sans face has to be spaced tightly. Look at
    Legacy Sans. Very broad letterforms (based on Jenson), spaced adequately. 'Narrower'
    is a subjective thing (as is 'too tight'). What Tracy means surely isn't that
    it's impossible to space a sans correctly, just because it has no serifs. And
    the fact that Helvetica is spaced badly doesn't support Tracy's comment at all.
    Helvetica is just spaced badly. \r\n\r\nBill, I think your observation about narrower
    sans designs being more readable is a very good place to look. This idea deserves
    more attention. This might prove to be meaningful, and we should pursue it. I
    think we can agree there's an ideal width, with serif types, that's the most comfortable.
    Maybe the ideal width of Sans designs is narrower. Intriguing. Could it be connected
    to reduced contrast? We do know that bold sans lowercase looks small if the x-height
    isn't increased. Interesting to pursue.\r\n\r\nI don't think you can credit serifs
    with keeping our eyes on a line, and not also acknowledge all the other factors,
    some of which I mention above. Again, there are many, many other things at work
    when we read. I contend that serifs are a much less important factor than is generally
    thought. Or, put another way, the other factors are all, each, equally important,
    if not more important, to the function of reading. You can't discount the way
    readers are trained to read (John Hudson's 'readerability'). You can't pretend
    that the text is splattered at random across a page, and serifs are the only,
    tenuous method we have to keep our eyes following the text. \r\n\r\nit's been
    proven that we read in saccades. Whatever way you interpret this, it clearly reveals
    that we read words, even multiple words, and this is the way we're trained to
    read them, and all of that is a very, very strong habitual pattern we all use
    while reading. With all that in place, why would serifs, (the most visible of
    the variables), be more important than stroke contrast, for example. If that were
    true, digital Bodoni would be easier to read than Syntax at the same small apparent
    size. I doubt that's true.  \r\n\r\nWhat John H. calls readerability is probably
    a complex of these factors that allow us to understand a lot of different marks
    as the same thing (A=a), from serif to sans, to handwriting, to bitmaps. Surely
    serifs aren't the first, most important factor?  Since the literature doesn't
    show a very large difference between serif and sans (a conflict, in fact, between
    preference and performance), we have to assume serifs are not that crucial to
    reading. \r\n\r\nIf you step out of the bubble of the Latin alphabet, and move
    to other writing systems, you realize that humans can be trained to read a variety
    of different ways. In Arabic, or Kanji, are \"serifs\" the most important thing
    to reading? Is Greek lowercase inherently more difficult to read, since it has
    so few serifs to \"guide\" the readers' eyes? Only a native Greek reader can tell
    us. We've also discussed how capitals and lowercase were evolved together from
    disparate writing traditions. Don't we have to acknowledge that serifs on lowercase
    are pretty recent, and derive from a need to stylistically match lc with UC?\r\n\r\nThere's
    no need to feel defensive about this. I just think the standard line about serifs
    is not good enough anymore."
  created: '2006-12-03 02:06:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> visual wordform resolution first, and the theoretical opportunities
    for gestural-atmospheric tuning they provide as a fringe benefit.</em>\r\n\r\nYour
    theory makes a lot of sense to me, and it's quite good historically, because the
    variety really only began to emerge 175 years ago.\r\n\r\nHowever, few designed
    things are merely practical, and the \"gestural atmospheric\" element, viz styling,
    is loaded with meaning and a necessary part of cultural functionality, not a fringe
    benefit. In fact, I suspect it was the teutonic otherness of Sweynham & Pannartz's
    type-without-much-serifs that mitigated against it -- \"we don't write like that
    round 'ere, mate\" -- rather than any lack of integrity of word objects. So they
    produced a more serifed type, and that's how the Montane roman evolved into Jenson's
    definitive version, as I understand that part of the Incunabula.\r\n\r\nInterestingly,
    the diversification of serifed forms occured at the same time as the initial development
    of the sans serif, around the 1830s, so they are perhaps part of the same phenomenon."
  created: '2006-12-03 02:14:47'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"...the \u201Cgestural atmospheric\u201D element, viz styling, is loaded
    with meaning and a necessary part of cultural functionality, not a fringe benefit.\"
    [Nick]\r\n\r\nYou're absolutely right; my choice of the words \"fringe benefit\"
    was unfortunate.\r\n\r\n\"Our understanding of reading and the role of type in
    reading is stale and impoverished.\" [Carl]\r\n\r\nI think that's by and large
    accurate when it comes to the broader typographic community, (though I think the
    intuitive foundations of a better understanding are quite robust and widespread).
    But my sense is that the scientific community (and the pedagogical science policy
    making community it feeds) badly need a typographical-craft-attunements-inspired
    paradigm shift. There is a lot of good work and data out there, but, as I've seen
    written by a member of this community over a decade ago, the science of reading
    is still in a pre-Mendalevian state.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-03 03:15:34'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "Now the king told the boogie men:\r\n\"Serif? Don't like it\""
  created: '2006-12-03 04:32:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Carl and Chris, to clarify a couple of points:\r\n\r\n1. In general I am
    not saying that sans are poorly spaced, but just that when they are well spaced
    for even color they are more suitable for display and short passages, and less
    suitable for extended text at small sizes.   \r\n\r\n2. My theory about the ratio
    between letter spacing and counters being too low in sans with wide counters is
    mine, as is my view that sans in general are less readable as text--though I think
    the latter is common. I wasn't saying that this is Tracy's view. I was saying
    that Tracy's observation sparked my thinking on this issue. \r\n\r\nHowever Carl
    when you say of Tracy that \"It doesn\u2019t necessarily follow that any sans
    face has to be spaced tightly,\" I don't think this is correct about Tracy. He
    says point-blank that the sans HH should be tighter than a similar H with serifs.
    Whether this is a problem or not is a question I am raising; I suspect it puts
    limitations on the readability of sans faces. There may well be other causes of
    the weakness for text of sans, but I suspect it is one. The problem is that if
    you space the sans more widely words don't knit together in the same way as they
    would with a seriffed face of similar proportions. That's what I am thinking is
    an important advantage of serifs. \r\n\r\n>greater definition to the whites between
    the letters than these whites receive in sans serif contexts, and by off-setting
    the visual formal self-enclosedness of letters within themselves\r\n\r\nPeter,
    I think this is an interesting new idea about the advantage of serifs. Giving
    the inter-letter spaces more visual closure may make their shapes more readily
    identifiable by the brain. Making the inter-letter space more similar to the spaces
    within letters might also, as you say, help knit a word together, and distinguish
    it from neighboring words, which are separated by word spaces that act significantly
    differently. "
  created: '2006-12-03 12:21:57'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I think what Tracy might have said, to be more precise, is that one spaces
    a sans <strong>differently</strong> from a serif. Consider: the shapes inside
    sans letters are just as likely to be similar to their intercharacter shapes.
    That can't be a factor in what you persist in calling \"the weakness for text
    of sans\". There ought to be an ideal, or correct way to space sans designs so
    they produce the desired \"knitting\". I'm not convinced that it's categorically
    impossible, which is what I seem to be hearing. It is likely to require a different
    approach, and I think Peter put it well: \"sans serif typography requires greater
    attention to perfect spacing to inhibit \u2018slot processing.\u2019\" He, and
    I, don't say that the lack of serifs is a fatal flaw of the word-object. It's
    just more difficult. Nobody can say what the correct spacing of \"a sans-serif
    typeface\" is because the correct spacing for each sans is different, and it's
    a very delicate balance. In addition, since photo and digital type, nobody has
    been making sans faces for specific sizes. They have typically been made to be
    adequate at a range of sizes, and as soon as you see a sans (Helvetica) used at
    an inappropriate size, you see the damaging effect bad spacing has on word-image.
    This does not tell us that you can't space a sans well for small sizes. That's
    not logic.\r\n\r\nBill, your language is colored by your conviction that sans
    is less readable. I have to raise a flag if it seems we are treating our biases
    and beliefs as facts. SInce nobody has proven this conclusively, we have to treat
    it as a theory, not a baseline fact. Otherwise it's logicalistic, or \"pseudoscience\"
    if you prefer. "
  created: '2006-12-03 18:50:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">we are treating our biases and beliefs as facts\r\n\r\nCarl, you are doing
    me an injustice here.\r\n\r\nIn practically every sentence I have written, I have
    qualified it by saying 'in my view', 'my hypothesis', 'my guess', etc. \r\n\r\nAnd
    I said as a general qualifier, 'I don\u2019t know that these are right, but they
    seem to have some plausability.'\r\n\r\nAnd yet you accuse me of being dogmatic
    or 'logicalistic' or 'pseudoscience'. \r\n\r\nI don't get it :("
  created: '2006-12-03 19:10:25'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Three non-mutually exclusive theories have been proposed here for the role
    of the serif: 1) They help word recognition, 2) They help eye movements by keeping
    readers from accidentally jumping to the wrong line, 3) They allow personality
    expressiveness. \r\n\r\nSerifs help the eye move across the line\r\nWilliam has
    proposed two possibilities for testing this hypothesis. The first is to compare
    the optimal amount of leading in serif faces versus the optimal amount of leading
    in sans serif faces. William/Tracy are predicting that sans serif faces will need
    more leading in order to reach the fastest reading speed. The second proposal
    is that in a reading speed study there will be an interaction between serif/sans
    serif and the amount of tracking. Reading speed with sans serif faces will be
    faster with tighter tracking, while serif faces will be faster with looser tracking
    (there is a need with this second method to create some absolute measure of letter
    space). \r\n\r\nSerifs help word recognition\r\nI suggested that there was little
    evidence to support this because of the long history of research examining this
    topic, as reviewed in Ole Lund\u2019s dissertation. But there could be new ways
    of investigating this theory. Peter is proposing an interaction effect between
    serif/sans serif and regular/irregular letter spacing, with sans serif faces performing
    relatively poorer than serif faces with irregular letter spacing (we\u2019d have
    to either develop a good measure of regularity, or we could ask several type designers
    to rate of letter space regularity).\r\n\r\nSerifs express different personalities
    from san serifs\r\nShaikh and Chaparro demonstrated this at ATypI in Lisbon, though
    I don\u2019t think there is disagreement on this point anyway?\r\n\r\nAre there
    other theories about the role of the serif or proposals for testing these theories?
    \r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin\r\nThis is in no way an offer to take on this project. :)\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-03 19:14:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">proposals for testing these theories?\r\n\r\nYes, I think the advantages
    of serifs will show up much more clearly if they are tested using the measure
    I have suggested before: see how rapidly comprehension declines with extended
    time. \r\n\r\nI suspect we have a large capacity to compensate for less than optimal
    conditions and maintain nearly the same reading speed. But the compensation is
    taxing, and creates mental fatigue, and this will lead to a sooner decline in
    comprehension--and probably reading speed as well. Decline of reading speed will
    probably be easier to detect, so maybe that will encourage you to try this measure!
    \r\n\r\nThis hypothesis about compensation and fatigue accounts for why many common
    beliefs of those who deal with type--such as that sans need additional leading--have
    not been found in testing, and suggests a way to make the differences show up
    in testing.\r\n\r\nI suspect on the basis of Peter's and Carl's discussions here
    that sans, spaced more loosely than optimal, will break up the word images (the
    dreaded 'bouma') sooner than if you loosen serif faces similarly. It may be more
    tightly as well. In other words, it is not only robustness in the face of irregularlity
    but also of tracking. And this will show up in measuring fatigue by loss of speed
    and comprehension sooner over and extended reading period. \r\n\r\nps. Tracy doesn't
    discuss leading. The idea that sans need more leading to be optimally readable
    is pretty common; I have read it a number of places. In addition to Bringhurst,
    as noted above, it is also mentioned by G. Dowding in 'Finer Points in the Spacing
    and Arrangement of Type' (1954), p 13. It is maybe important to note also that
    there is an interaction between leading and measure: with a shorter measure you
    need less leading. So in testing it would be essential to normalize measure as
    well as, eg. x-height, among other things. "
  created: '2006-12-03 20:07:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"This is in no way an offer to take on this project. :)\"\r\n\r\nSounds
    like the typical \"i am not running for President\" comment always heard just
    prior to the primaries :-)\r\n\r\nCan we twist your arm Kevin? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-03 20:09:47'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Kevin, it might be possible to specify the notion of 'serifs helping the
    eye move across the line' in 'parafoveal preview advantage' terms, so that the
    parafoveal preview advantage interacts with leading, serifs or not, and tracking
    / regularity. It is well-known that parafoveal preview of text downstream in the
    direction of reading speeds up recognition. An advantage might be detectable using
    the boundary study protocol you recruited in your Science of Word Recognition
    paper or eye-movement studies. The theory would be that 1) indexing of the next
    item for fixation, 2) saccade planning or 3) the extraction of more criterial
    or more accurate ensemble statistics might be enhanced by serifs. How to dissociate
    these three possibilities would require greater refinements. Indexing might be
    helped by a clearer definition of the boundary of the bounded map defined by the
    word-object. In such a case less leading might be necessary to preserve this capability
    in seriffed forms for the reason Nick cited. Extraction of accurate 'ensemble
    statistics' and saccade planning might be helped by a decrease in the susceptability
    to destructive interference or crowding (at prafoveal distances) in word-objects
    created by seriffed forms.\r\n\r\nMy proposals might also be tested using a masked
    priming protocol, where a short duration 'prime' stimulus is introduced in the
    middle of a series of masks before the target word is introduced for identification
    or a word / non-word response. The prime could consist of only inter-letter shapes.
    The interletter shapes would be derived according to different serif and spacing
    conditions. This could determine two things: whether interletter shapes are 'calculated'
    in perceptual processing, and whehter their closure is  a factor.\r\n\r\nBut I
    agree with Bill, and implicitly Hrant, that the gains might not be detectable
    in simple priming and short duration boundary studies, but only become a factor
    expressing itself in fatigue and time terms over large texts with 'deep' immersion.
    Except here isolating the variable one is interested in seems much more intractable
    a problem."
  created: '2006-12-03 20:42:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Are there other theories </em>\r\n\r\n4. Finishing the stroke.\r\n\r\nAt
    the smallest level, serifs prevent bleed, or to put it another way, enhance acuity,
    by finishing the stroke.\r\n\r\nBleed occurs in all media, because perfect sharpness
    is impossible.\r\nSo serifs compensate for the attrition the image suffers during
    reproduction.\r\n\r\nIt also occurs as \"visual bleed\" within the vision system.
    There are two aspects to this. The first relates to the quality of lens, resolution
    of the retina, transparency of the aqueous humour, and other visual equipment
    in the visual system. The other is during perceptual processing, although this
    is hypothetical.\r\n\r\nQuite apart from mechanical reasons for finishing the
    stroke, there are cultural reasons, most fundamentally perhaps the traditional
    need that boundaries should be clearly marked, that pictures and doors should
    have frames, etc. There may be so many practical instances (eg, that fabric must
    be hemmed to prevent fraying) that unfinished things just don't look right. Of
    course, modernism disputes this.\r\n\r\n5. Derogating the substrate.\r\n\r\nThe
    <em>varied linearity</em> exhibited by classic roman type, with its combination
    of serifs and contrasted stroke, creates a different kind of textual image, en
    masse, on the page (or screen) than that of a linear sans or Egyptian type. The
    monolinear type image sits flat upon the page, suggesting a figure that is planar,
    forming a clear impression of the two planes of paper and type; modernist layouts
    exploit this. Varied linearity however, creates visual depth within the type image
    instead, dissipating the simple black/white, figure/ground, ink/paper duality,
    leveraging the complexities of notan.\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-03 23:18:57'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"In other words, it is not only robustness in the face of irregularlity
    but also of tracking. And this will show up in measuring fatigue by loss of speed
    and comprehension sooner over an extended reading period.\" [William]\r\n\r\nThis
    sounds right to me. \r\n\r\nNick, I like this 'varied linearity' notion. I read
    today that \"...constant stimuli produced unreliable or irreproducible spike firing
    patterns, but noisy input signals deemed to be more \"natural\" [...] yielded
    much more reproducible spike patterns...\" "
  created: '2006-12-04 22:54:58'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "William, \r\n\r\nI apologize if you feel attacked. Please don't take my comments
    personally. Consider that what I am after is greater real awareness of the dynamics
    of the different aspects of typefaces on reading performance. To that end, I like
    to think we are trying to separate what is hopeful speculation from what is true,
    measurable, real. This last we can arrive at scientifically, and with enlightened,
    aware intuition. What I fear I am reading between your every line is that you
    have decided that sans type is less readable, and that you choose to interpret
    what you read as supporting that wish. Please make an effort to read Tracy, Goudy,
    Enneson, Larson, dispassionately. It's not illegal to disagree with them or to
    acknowledge what's missing, or vague in their statements. It's also possible that
    we've surpassed their most advanced thoughts on reading. Most of what you quote
    of Tracy has to do with type design on a practical level, and for the intended
    purpose it's excellent. I don't think you can build an argument that sans is intrisically
    harder to read, based on a very general comment Tracy made about spacing type.
    Can you see how unscientific that is? You also say:\r\n\r\n\"This hypothesis about
    compensation and fatigue accounts for why many common beliefs of those who deal
    with type\u2014such as that sans need additional leading\u2014have not been found
    in testing, and suggests a way to make the differences show up in testing.\"\r\n\r\nThe
    goal of such testing, I think, is to discover whatever effect or difference there
    is, no matter your starting assumption, not to \"make differences show up\", and
    I pick that out because of your clear agenda to show serif type to be more readable.
    You presume the differences to be there, rather than considering all the possible
    results that might show up. Hoping for testing to show a specific result is not
    scientific. \r\n\r\nIf we want to make progress in discovery, it's a clear hindrance
    to start with preferences, cling to them, and insist on basing other, illogical
    suppositions on them. Again, I don't ascribe all this kind of thinking to you;
    the reason I've posted so passionately is that I'm hearing similar undisciplined
    ideas from all corners. I'm tired of going in the same circles, and for me, the
    way forward is more structured and more rigorous thinking. If you are only interested
    in approaching the matter from a philosophical point of view, that's fine, but
    I'm interested in what we might find by scientific means. I have not disagreed
    categorically with everything you've said. I've pointed out when I think your
    train of thought is interesting to pursue. Everyone can have useful insights,
    and I feel it's objective, purposeful, to examine each idea, each suggestion,
    with the same rigor. In the spirit of objective discovery, please re-read what
    I've posted, try to divorce the ideas from your ego, and consider the other factors
    I've mentioned. So far you have not addressed them.  "
  created: '2006-12-05 00:18:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">To that end, I like to think we are trying to separate what is hopeful speculation
    from what is true, measurable, real.\r\n\r\nHow do we separate 'hopeful speculation'--mine
    or yours--from what is real?\r\n\r\nAccording to the late Sir Karl Popper, under
    whom I did my PhD in History and Philosophy of Science, progress in science comes
    from bold hypotheses and severe empirical tests of these imaginative theories.
    The most enlightening enpirical tests are those which are 'crucial experiments':
    those experiments where different results are predicted by different theories.
    Then one of them is refuted, and we learn a lot from that. \r\n\r\nIn order to
    have good empirical tests, it is important to have well-developed competing theories,
    and to look for tests that might decide between them--including the possibility
    of refuting your own favored theory. \r\n\r\nJohn Eccles, who was was a colleague
    of Popper's in New Zealand tells a lovely story about what he learned from Popper.
    He had been working for years on a theory of the operation of synapses in the
    brain. One day he confessed to his friend Popper that he was really depressed,
    because it looked like the weight of evidence was going against his theory. Popper
    told him he should be happy, because refutation his how science progresses. He
    suggested that Eccles try to design an experiment that would refute his own theory.
    Then if he were to succeed in refuting his own theory, he should try to invent
    a better theory that would explain it and other data. Eccles did exactly that--and
    won the Nobel Prize for it. \r\n\r\nMy suggestions are in this spirit. My own
    hunch is indeed that seriffed type is superior for text, but what I happen to
    believe is quite unimportant to science, and I certainly may well be wrong. What
    is important is to try to test competing theories against observation. To do this
    it is important to develop the competing views sharply, and to look for where
    the differences in their predictions may appear. \r\n\r\nTherefore I have tried
    to develop a theory of in what way exactly seriffed type might be superior, in
    order that seriffed type might be objectively tested for readability against sans
    type. These tests may refute the idea that serifs are better, and show that sans
    are better--or visa versa. Or they might lead elsewhere altogether.\r\n\r\nYou
    write:\r\n\r\n\"The goal of such testing, I think, is to discover whatever effect
    or difference there is, no matter your starting assumption, not to \u201Cmake
    differences show up\u201D, and I pick that out because of your clear agenda to
    show serif type to be more readable. You presume the differences to be there,
    rather than considering all the possible results that might show up. Hoping for
    testing to show a specific result is not scientific.\"\r\n\r\nI'm sorry, but I
    think you are really misunderstanding the nature of scientific testing. The point
    of 'making differences show up' is to find evidence that will discriminate between
    theories--show which is superior, *without knowing the outcome*. The whole point
    of a good test is that you don't know which way it is going to go--it may refute
    the pro-serif view, or the equality of sans & serif view, or may lead somewhere
    else altogether. \r\n\r\nLet me emphasize that my suggestions above for empirical
    testing--which evidently Kevin Larson, a reading scientist, writing above thinks
    make sense--are not biassed in favor of proving that serifs are better. They are
    designed to find out whether OR NOT serifs are better. The result of experiments
    can go EITHER WAY. And I have been looking specifically for experiments that can
    potentially REFUTE the pro-serif view, because otherwise the tests will be quite
    uninformative. \r\n\r\nSearching for tests that might refute your own favored
    view--which is what have done--is not dogmatic and closed minded. It is the essence
    of good, open-minded scientific method. That is why I have looked for a new measure,
    and found a potential one--fatigue as assessed by decline in comprehension and
    speed--that might decide for OR AGAINST a number of different theories concerning
    readability. If my measure turns out to be a good one, it will show a number of
    differences, and then what the results on serifs will be significant. Otherwise
    experiements using it will unfortunately be just more inconclusive studies. \r\n\r\nCarl,
    your own view that serif and sans are equally readable is just as 'speculative
    and hopeful' as my view that good serif types are more readable at text size.
    Instead of making irrelevant personal accusations about my ego, why don't you
    develop your theory further, and suggest objective, crucial empirical tests, as
    I have tried to do? \r\n\r\nYou claim that I have a \"clear agenda to show serif
    type to be more readable\". My agenda is crucially different: it is to FIND OUT
    whether OR NOT serif type is more readable. "
  created: '2006-12-05 03:27:27'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I'm so glad you clarified your position, William. It's been difficult to
    see. \r\n\r\n\"your own view that serif and sans are equally readable\"\r\n\r\nis
    not my stated or implied view. And none of my views are based much in \"hopefulness\"
    at all. \r\n\r\nI have in fact discussed with Kevin specific test designs; procedures
    and controls. I'm keen to move forward with well-designed tests that advance previous
    efforts. I have never made irrelevant personal accusations to you. My criticisms
    all stem from a concern, understandably drawn from your posts, that you are not
    willing to consider evidence or concepts you do not favor. Perhaps that's not
    what you meant to convey. I'm relieved. Thus, you are free (I hope you finally
    see?) to consider my arguments and what merits they might have. Do you wish to
    engage them? Shall I restate them? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-05 03:45:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '{deleted as boring by the author}'
  created: '2006-12-05 05:51:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Carl, your main argument, I believe, is this:\r\n\r\n\"I contend that serifs
    are a much less important factor than is generally thought. Or, put another way,
    the other factors are all, each, equally important, if not more important, to
    the function of reading. You can\u2019t discount the way readers are trained to
    read (John Hudson\u2019s \u2018readerability\u2019). You can\u2019t pretend that
    the text is splattered at random across a page, and serifs are the only, tenuous
    method we have to keep our eyes following the text.\"\r\n\r\nThe two sentences
    are really an assertion, and not an argument. You say that serifs are much less
    important than is generally thought. Ok, that's your position. \r\n\r\nWhat follows
    is an attack on a straw man. I have never said that other factors are unimportant.
    On typophile I have often discussed the importance of spacing and of even color,
    and even of good notan. I never said that \"serifs are the only ...method we have
    to keep our eyes following the text.\" \r\n\r\nWhat I said is that serifs are
    one important factor, and that the lack of them will hurt readablity in a specific
    way: create fatigue in reading more closely leaded text, compared to similar seriffed
    text. In fact you do not address this specific claim of mine, or the arguments
    I have put for it--or rather for its being worth testing.\r\n\r\nAs to the point
    that sans may be more sensitive to spacing to get to an optimum--a point Peter
    and you made--I have already acknowledged it as an interesting one. However, 'optimal'
    for sans does not necessarily mean that they are equally readable as optimally
    spaced serif fonts. \r\n\r\nMy judgment as a reader is that sans are generally
    less readable as text. This is a common view, shared and forcefully put by many,
    including Dowding, whom I mentioned earlier. The question is, are those who think
    that serifs are more readable in text simply reflecting a comfort with the familiar,
    and there is in fact no objective difference? To me because so many people do
    find seriffed type more readable that is an interesting question. I would like
    to see a test found that we could be confident gives us a good answer. "
  created: '2006-12-05 06:29:49'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"My agenda is crucially different: it is to FIND OUT whether OR NOT serif
    type is more readable.\" [William]\r\n\r\nI have a resistence to this way of framing
    an agenda. I'm struggling to find a way to articulate my discomfort in ways that
    don't appear cretin. Let me try this approach:\r\n\r\nIn terms of 'knowledge construction'
    (Ole Lund / <em>Knowledge construction in typography: the case of legibility research
    and the legibility of sans serif typefaces</em> University of Reading Department
    of Design and Typography PhD thesis) in typography, I think the real value of
    your test is that it might be able to show  a negative correlation between (variable
    a) a susceptibility to componential abstraction and (variable b) the sustainability
    of immersion with effective and effortless sense-following and maximal-comprehension
    grip. But I also think there might be a positive correlation between the (a) facilitation
    of slot processing and (b) ease of use of wayfinding mechanisms in unfamiliar
    contexts, or in captioning. This is because in way-finding contexts or captioning
    a quasi-letterwise dechiperment must often occur. \r\n\r\nIt is clear from our
    everyday experience and craft knowledge that texts in both serif and sans serif
    types are eminently readable when designed and set well, and used for the uses
    they were designed for. There is also the perception that the sans serif fonts
    currently in use are less suitable than traditional seriffed fons for the setting
    of large texts  meant for immersive reading. I want to use these perceptions to
    leverage [adding later: perceptual-mechanical] knowledge construction so that
    action might be rendered more intelligent, rather than to treat [revising later]
    as a knowledge construction end, a generic statement about which is more readable.
    \r\n\r\nWhy serifs? \r\n1) Because seriffed fonts are more readable. \r\n2) Because
    seriffed fonts inhibit more effectively the slot-processing which is destructive
    of the sustainability of 'immersion with-effective sense following and good comprehensional
    grip'. \r\nWhat tells us more of what we need to know to make intelligent design
    choices or engage in responsible action?"
  created: '2006-12-05 17:06:36'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: My problem is that putatively authoritative statements about an ill-defined
    but intuitively desirable value or variable called readability--while perhaps
    of value heuristically--can lead to blind following. What's needed is intelligent
    action where perceptual processing mechanics are sufficiently understood.
  created: '2006-12-05 18:23:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>large texts meant for immersive reading.</em>\r\n\r\nWith regards to
    commonly held axioms and Carl's idea that some of them may be a little too \"logicalistic\",
    what about immersive reading? There is no scientific evidence that there are two
    kinds of reading, immersive and non-immersive, that distinguish text and display
    type. In fact, what we know is that the eye moves saccadically (not to mention
    ocular drift and ocular tremor) in both.\r\n\r\nAs far as I am concerned, we decipher
    all text the same way. In a parallel viewing mode, there is always ancillary information
    available for inspection, the so-called \"aesthetics\" of typography. And this
    too may be perceived immersively, or pondered consciously.\r\n\r\nThe privileging
    of serifed book body text as the ultimate reading mode reminds me of D.B. Updike's
    snobbery (in his \"Printing Types\" of 1922), that only classic book types were
    worthy of consideration, in the history of type, and in his recommendations for
    contemporary typographic practice.\r\n\r\nConsider this exhibit, with its typogrpahic
    hierarchy. Which parts are read \"immersively\" and which not? \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/NS_5420.jpg]"
  created: '2006-12-05 19:05:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Peter, I agree with you that in contexts such as signage and many other contexts,
    such as display, sans can be equally readable. \r\n\r\nI have been arguing for
    possible superiority of serifs only in the case of extended text at small visual
    sizes. I guess I should have repeated that context to make clear what I want to
    see tested. \r\n\r\nAlso I agree with you that many variables need to be tested--as
    I urged in another thread. \r\n\r\nYour new point here that we need to really
    try to categorize carefully what situations offer significantly different conditions,
    and not have one single category of 'readability' is a good point. \r\n\r\nIn
    terminology that some writers on type have used for more than fifty years, there
    is a distinction between 'legibility'--meaning ability to discipher single words,
    eg for signage--and 'readability'--ease of reading extended text. And of course
    sans can be equally legible, and in some contexts more so. But your point that
    there are probably more than two significantly different reading conditions is
    a good one, and should be taken into account in testing. \r\n\r\nedit: I cross
    posted with you, Nick. \r\n\r\nI do agree with Peter that there are significantly
    different conditions that put different demands on type. I don't think that Clearview
    Highway, which is proven to be excellent as signage, would score as well at 10
    point in extended text, judged against Sabon or Minion. \r\n\r\nI am not comfortable
    with talking about different kinds of reading--immersive vs others--but I do think
    there are significantly different conditions that some designs will meet better
    than others. Not all designs suit all conditions, as far as ease of conveying
    the message of the type. "
  created: '2006-12-05 19:11:30'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\nConsider reading a book set in a display cut of Bodoni. The
    difference isn't just size, or style, though clearly the style preference for
    text faces is much more conservative. If you had to choose this book set in a
    digital display cut of Bodoni, set small, for 5 hours straight, or the same book
    set in Minion, you would choose the Minion setting. Why? Well, that's the answer
    to your question. I don't think the mechanism of deciphering text at display sizes
    or in ornate styles is completely different from reading text, but I do think
    the effort of processing is very different. Fatigue doesn't figure into trying
    to understand a headline in a magazine. It is a crucial issue in 'immersive reading',
    which I think means reading long texts for long periods. "
  created: '2006-12-05 19:17:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I agree with your reasoning Carl, but if it's just a question of comfort for
    a long trip, the word "immersive" is unnecessarily loaded, with its implication
    that a long read is somehow more subconscious -- in the way that the words are
    processed -- than a short one.
  created: '2006-12-05 19:32:00'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Is it just me, or did the serifs on this board disappear recently?\r\n\r\n(Not
    that that is a bad thing.)"
  created: '2006-12-05 19:36:25'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Why do you think this extended kind of reading isn''t more subconscious?
    Hasn''t the whole Raygun thing made it apparent how uncomfortably conscious reading
    can be? '
  created: '2006-12-05 19:36:29'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Additional theories:\r\n\r\nSerifs reduce eye fatigue (William)\r\nWilliam,
    I am inclined to make this a separate theory from serifs helping word recognition.
    I would strongly argue that improvements in word recognition should show up in
    the amount of time it takes for the eye and brain to process the information.
    Eye fatigue (which is less well understood) could certainly interact with serifs,
    and I would describe your decrease in comprehension over time measure as one that
    might be a closer approximation to eye fatigue. Would you agree with this?\r\n\r\nSerifs
    improve parafoveal preview (Peter)\r\nParafoveal preview and word location identification
    are both known components of reading that could be improved by serifs. These could
    in turn be examined by the eye tracking methodologies of the boundary and moving
    window studies. It would seem to me that both parafoveal preview and word location
    identification are unlikely since, as with word recognition, we should expect
    to see improvements in overall reading speed.\r\n\r\nFinishing the stroke (Nick)\r\nDerogating
    the substrate (Nick)\r\nI don\u2019t think I understand either of these theories
    or how to test them. Any proposals on how you would test these theories?\r\n\r\nChris
    wrote \u201CCan we twist your arm Kevin? :-)\u201D\r\nI\u2019m not offering to
    do this because I already have way too many projects on my plate. I\u2019m hoping
    that by outlining a research program that someone would be interested in taking
    on this challenge. I would be willing to collaborate with an enterprising student
    who wants to take on this project.\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin"
  created: '2006-12-05 19:52:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Serifs reduce eye fatigue (William)\r\n\r\nWell, what I was theorizing above
    was that serifs reduce *mental* fatigue. In other words, less than ideal reading
    conditions are more taxing on our brain processing apparatus, so we get tired
    more quickly and our comprehension and reading speed deterioriate from this mental
    fatigue. \r\n\r\nIt may be that eye fatigue is a factor, but I wasn't thinking
    of that. By eye fatigue do you mean the same thing as eye strain, such as from
    bright light or glare, or poor focus, as in the wrong glasses? I am thinking more
    of mental fatigue, such as shows up in chess players in long games. "
  created: '2006-12-05 20:23:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...I would be willing to collaborate with an enterprising student who wants
    to take on this project.\"\r\n\r\n\r\nI hope one will come out of the ether for
    you Kevin.  Also, maybe one who can write good grant proposals.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-05 20:46:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Kevin,\r\n\r\n\"Finishing the stroke\" is, I would have thought, the most
    basic reason possible for serifs.\r\n\r\n\"Pre-emptive\" details are applied to
    type, in various media, to counteract corruption of the image during reproduction.
    This is particularly necessary with phototype, where the image is passed through
    a lens and exposed onto a surface -- a process similar to that which occurs in
    the eye. \r\n\r\nSerifs were around in scribal and lapidary times, for a reason,
    but were used by Incunabula printers to deal with their own problem. It must have
    irked typefounders that the neat and sharp image which they created on a metal
    surface became rough and sloppy when printed. Serifs became part of the Venetian
    type style because they created a neat, crisp  effect -- and you can see this
    evolution through the types of Sweynhem & Pannartz, to the definitive Jenson.\r\n\r\nBell
    Centennial is perhaps the most celebrated of the modern era \"pre-emptive\" type
    designs, but the narrowing of stems at joints has been an integral feature of
    letter design since before type, and is conveniently inherent in broad pen writing.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.nicksherman.com/articles/bellCentennial.html\r\n\r\nSerifs
    are a similar proposition to \"ink-traps\", but dealing with an excess of erosion,
    rather than accumulation.\r\n\r\nSerifs and ink-traps counteract the degradation
    of the image both in the medium, and also in the eye.\r\n\r\nTo test in a lab,
    fit subjects with eyeglasses that throw the image out of focus, or use text which
    has been photocopied several times, and see whether sans or serif holds up better.\r\n\r\nDerogating
    the substrate: this is a bit of a mind-bender, but perhaps it would be possible
    to test it by using different colours for type and background, which are tonally
    identical. I suspect that under these conditions, where the figure/ground relationship
    between type and background is problematic, serifed text would be easier to read
    than sans. Just a guess!"
  created: '2006-12-05 21:04:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Why do you think this extended kind of reading isn\u2019t more subconscious?</em>\r\n\r\nBeacause
    all fluent reading is subconscious, to the extent that reading is a global skill
    combining separate sub-skills (eg letter recognition) that have been consciously
    learned and amalgamated. When reading a headline, you read the whole phrase subconsciously,
    not letter by letter and paying special attention to the serif style. No different
    than body copy. "
  created: '2006-12-05 21:17:03'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"There is no scientific evidence that there are two kinds of reading, immersive
    and non-immersive...\" [ Nick ]\r\n\r\nYou're right, no, there isn't. \r\n\r\nThere
    is, or might be, however, an agreement--or social contract--to call the engaged,
    motivated reading of long texts by experienced readers 'immersive reading', and
    the deliberative process the reader engages in during immersive reading when an
    unfamiliar word or phrase of acronym is encountered, 'letterwise decipherment.'
    The perceptual processing routine that is the norm for each of these is hypothesized
    to be different, and there are perceptual processing reasons to think this is
    a sustainable hypothesis: when we meet an unfamiliar word during immersion we
    do something different, often involving a regressive saccade and a prolonged (in
    microsecond terms) visual search within the bounded map, as well as a deliberative
    sequential sounding out on the basis of our learned knowledge of symbol to sound
    rules, before moving on. \r\n\r\nBoth processing routines are learned, and become
    to various degrees automatic.\r\n\r\nWhat happens in captions, headlines, decks
    and way-finding? We connect with these kinds of texts in browsing or way-finding,
    or 'referential-frame establishing' situations. We automatically resort to the
    same two processing routines (sub-routines) used in immersive reading, but without
    as large a benefit perhaps of the preview and semantic context advantages that
    are maximized at text sizes with longer texts. The response biases of the perceptual
    system retain their skew to a processing routine not premised on letter-wise slot-processing,
    or so I believe. \r\n\r\nThe perceptual processing impact of serifs at display
    sizes is a different story. At display sizes their gestural-atmospheric import
    perhaps plays a more imortant role than their optical-grammatical function in
    inhibiting slot-processing.\r\n\r\nWhat doesn't make sense, to me at least, is
    aligning the binaries immersive / deliberative directly along the reference axis
    text / display. A processing routine learned (sub-attentively) during the aquisition
    of 'fluency in immersive reading' becomes the preferred line of attack whenever
    and wherever text is encountered in the life-world of the reader.\r\n\r\nBill,
    I agree that eye-fatigue is not what you are after. I think the premise of your
    'sustainability of immersion with robust comprehension' test is that there might
    be additional 'computation costs,' (or at least, costly pitfuls) in the visual
    cortex associated with the sans serif when used at text sizes. And that the force
    of these costs is such that they disturb the most effective allocation of neuronal
    resources for comprehension, so that is one area where there force is expressed."
  created: '2006-12-05 23:55:56'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Think giggles is still reading???
  created: '2006-12-06 02:48:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: :-D
  created: '2006-12-06 13:22:52'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "regarding: serifs creating a neat crisp effect  [Nick] as the <em>reason</em>
    for their introduction / assimilation into type design\r\n\r\nmy view: the serif
    in roman lower case types is, or represents, (factor#1) the formalization--in
    a new  (non-scriptorial) technology or ecology of text production, namely punchcutting--of
    scriptorial conventions of stroke termination, within (factor#2) a humanistic
    classicistic cultural sphere dispositionally oriented to the carolinian miniscule
    and its pairing with the Roman inscriptional capital. (With the formalization
    being subject to, or under, (factor#3) the countervailing pressures of constraints
    introduced by the technical requirements of sidebearings,  the trueness of the
    resultant impression, and the necessity of preserving the integrity of the word
    image.)"
  created: '2006-12-06 15:48:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Right Peter, I wasn't proposing crispness as the main or only reason. I think
    that there are always multiple reasons for design. In fact I had already posited
    factor#2 based on the Roman resistance to Sweynhem & Pannartz's northern style
    of type.\r\n\r\nIs your \"the trueness of the resultant impression\" the same
    as my \"neat crisp effect\"?"
  created: '2006-12-06 20:33:38'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "There is more detail in each character in a serif face than in a san serif
    face -- and that is why we teach our school children in \"Century Schoolbook\"
    as they learn to recognize the alphabet as they read.\r\n\r\nAmazingly, as we
    age and still read -- it is so instilled in us, we have no problem recognizing
    letter formations. Go back to Type 101 and remember - cut your serif type in half
    - and you can still read the sentences easily.\r\n\r\nWe use it for ease of recognition
    -- and therefore, we shall continue using serif faces for reading purposes. (Help
    you get through many manuscripts, books, newspapers, etc.)\r\n\r\nP.S. It doesn't
    matter what level you are on. History is important, and this is part of the history
    of typefaces. My all-time favorite face is still Goudy Old Style. Each letter
    is beautiful -- every bit of punctuation was well thought out. (I hate what digitized
    typefonts did to those \"diamonds.\") Personally, I wouldn't want to lose that
    sense of style, design or history. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: i agree that the digital versions should be as original and accurate as
      could be. It loses its originality thus its quaulity.
    created: '2006-12-15 21:07:13'
  created: '2006-12-14 13:02:09'
- author:
    name: Gutenburgz_1400
    picture: 114767
  body: Using serif in a contemporary context is so terribly postmodern. We need to
    live in our own time. The only reason serifs are 'more legible' is because we
    have become accustomed to them. May they die a fiery death. Long live Helvetica
    Neue Bold Outline!
  created: '2008-04-17 02:50:03'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Okay I know this is an old thread that was randomly resurrected, but I wasn't
    around for the original and do have something to add :)\r\n\r\nAbout a year and
    half or two ago, I attended a dinner featuring a second language education researcher
    from Florida State University (I think it was FSU, might have been UF, one of
    the two heh).  One of the parts of his research involved understanding how foreign
    language learners read and understand texts, in this case, specifically L1 English
    students learning Spanish.  While conventional wisdom would have it that students
    are most confused in Spanish by the conjugations, they found actually that students
    tend to focus the majority of their effort on word stems.  They did this by studying
    how the did various worksheets/tests/etc while in some mechanism that allowed
    eye tracking, so they could see exactly where and for how long students were studying
    different parts of the words.  IIRC, the students would read words backwards,
    that is, read the conjugation quickly, and then backtrack to study the base word,
    eg, in \"acaeci\xE9semos\", they would focus on \"-i\xE9semos\" (1st Pl. Past
    Subj. -se form) and then later spend time on \"acaec-\" (acaecer, to happen) figuring
    out what it means, rather than the other way around was would native speakers.\r\n\r\nIt
    would seem to me that a similar approach could be used to judge reading texts
    between serif and sans serif.  \r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina
    que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por
    Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-04-17 13:56:20'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: Is Spanish read from left to right or the other way round? Could that be a
    reason as to why they read that way? Why wa sit just tested on the Spanish. Should
    have tried people who read arabic. They read from right to left. Hmm...
  created: '2008-04-18 00:19:01'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: "The initial question is a fair one, but so much research over so many years
    has established that the funkiness, contrast, and sheer visual interest of serifs
    are why they are preferred for reading. Sans-serifs overall have less variety
    as a species than serifs as a species. If you collect the most beautiful examples
    of type over the years, or just since 1970, serifs will outnumber sans-serifs
    by a comfortable margin. In book and magazine design, there's a reason serifs
    have always been preferred, though some on this board deny all that empirical
    evidence whenever the question comes up. \r\n\r\nA world without serifs would
    be like a world condemned to sixties architecture with no relief! I'd rather die!\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-18 01:09:52'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"<em>so much research over so many years</em> has established that the <em>funkiness,
    contrast, and sheer visual interest</em> of serifs are why they are preferred
    for reading [my emphasis]\"\r\n\r\nYour sources?"
  created: '2008-04-18 01:21:15'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "I'll admit it - I haven't read the whole thread. But has anyone ask the question
    yet --\r\n\r\nMiss Giggles - which class is this question for?\r\n\r\nYour teachers
    always come up with some interesting questions for their students to ponder....\r\n\r\nWow
    - old thread... just saw that -- so the question would have been\r\n\r\nMiss Giggles
    - which class was this for?\r\n\r\nAnd better yet - what came out of the class
    discussion....?"
  created: '2008-04-18 01:31:50'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Like all other languages written with the Latin writing system (including
    English), Spanish is written and read left to right.\r\n\r\nIt's interesting that
    the non-native readers made this mistake, given that their native language is
    read in the same direction and has the same property of having verb conjugations
    that change the ending of the word (-ed, -ing, -s).\r\n\r\nIt would be much less
    surprising/interesting to learn that people made equivalently basic errors if
    there was a larger difference between their native language and the new language
    - as would be the case with Spanish vs Arabic or English vs Arabic.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-04-18 01:52:08'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "It's not really that it's a mistake.  The students in the study were only
    just learning Spanish, so they weren't anywhere near a fluency level, just trying
    to make sense of it (the idea was to see how students were reading and adjust
    education materials accordingly).  They weren't reading it backwards, just separating
    the two units and interpreting them internally out of order. \r\n\r\nBy reading
    the second half of the word first, it shows they're still latching on to the English
    \"I need a person before I can interpret a verb\" approach, where as in Spanish
    it's flexible and can be other SV or VS.  When you mix in object pronouns, a sentence
    can end up SOV, SVO, VOS, or OVS.  \r\n\r\nIt was just done on Spanish because
    the Unievrsity had an ample supply of L1 English students learning Spanish :)
    \ It would, of course be interesting on seeing it with Arabic.  I know the students
    at my school (kids 3-8) do get veritably confused when they are learning both
    Latin and Arabic script at the same time, they can't separate the written, but
    spoken they speak both Spanish and Arabic (well, I assume on the second) perfectly
    and are the best English students in the school.\r\n\r\nBut I would really be
    interested to see how our reading of texts changes based on a variety of factors,
    serif size, degree of contrast, size of text, spacing and kerning, etc.  Take
    a sample of 100 people an analyze how each changes their reading of things, how
    they move their eyes, what they focus on, etc.  Much like the highway font experiment
    but instead of for long-distance reading, for short distance and both for long
    and short term reading (eg, display words/titles v body text).  \r\n\r\nPerhaps
    in doing so we might find that the eye seems to track along a the base line in
    a serif font, giving weight to the idea that serifs guide the reader and make
    it easier, or we might find that they distract to an extent.  Or we might find
    they really don't make much of a difference.  Anyone wanna set up an experiment?
    \ :)\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta
    de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-04-18 12:37:55'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "One thing about a Miss Giggles question is that it brings out all my favorite
    folks to answer that question. I like that a lot. \r\n\r\nCarl your points about
    logicalistic arguments are spot on. \r\n\r\nPersonally the serifs leading the
    eye is a theory I don't buy. It's a little too much like the idea that horses
    are pulling the sun across the sky.\r\n\r\nNick, I don't agree with your idea
    that using the word \"immersive\" leading. When you read, just like when you watch
    a film you enter the processing of that media by degrees. In both cases you can
    forget anything else is going on and thus become \"immersed\" in the media. In
    film this is called suspension of disbelief. I don't think there is anything wrong
    with the idea that reading in an immersed state may be different from reading
    prior to that state might differ perhaps subtle but meaningful ways. Nick's magazine
    example is false I think because I don't know that I would become immersed in
    such a short text- and if I did I would be jolted out of it by the question headers.
    \r\n\r\nThe idea that the serif is not of our time or that the sans is more modern
    is bunk. Sheer unmitigated nonsense. If you read about this subject on Typophile
    or do any research into western letter history you will find abundant reasons
    as to why.\r\n\r\nMy pet logicalistic theory is that serifs provide extra data
    for the brain to use when recognizing either letters or word shapes as the case
    may be. The shape of a letter with serifs is more complex and there fore data
    rich. With a relative surplus of data perhaps recognition may be be accomplished
    slightly faster. If brains were really slow like a very old computer chip it would
    take longer - but that isn't the case. The mere presence of a serif is not enough
    however - it's a a matrix of factors that combine to make a text easy or hard
    to read. There are plenty of serif fonts that would be a nightmare to read long
    texts in. Maybe this idea is equivalent to but a more mushy way of saying serifs
    enhance \"slot processing\". "
  created: '2008-04-19 07:50:47'
- author:
    name: Gutenburgz_1400
    picture: 114767
  body: "<cite>The idea that the serif is not of our time or that the sans is more
    modern is bunk. Sheer unmitigated nonsense. If you read about this subject on
    Typophile or do any research into western letter history you will find abundant
    reasons as why. </cite>\r\n\r\n\r\nyou obviously need to familiarize yourself
    with modernism. "
  created: '2008-04-20 00:16:47'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Pfff!! What you have there is a true-ism. It isn't true at all, but it is
    commonly assumed to be true. So it seems \"self evident\". \r\n\r\nI will explain
    why if you want. But first, when does this \"modern\" period begin? 20's 30's
    40's 50's? Start there & we can go on.\r\n\r\nOr, as I said before, do a search
    of typophile and you will quickly find out why I say this is so.\r\n\r\n-e."
  created: '2008-04-20 01:34:39'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>I will explain why if you want. But first, when does this \u201Cmodern\u201D
    period begin? 20\u2019s 30\u2019s 40\u2019s 50\u2019s? Start there & we can go
    on.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo right. The word can hardly be pinned down. In my common usage
    it ended in 1954. What\u2019s going on now? My guess would be it isn't modernism
    or even post-modernism. And what IS up with the <cite>post</cite> thing anyway.
    I can't believe we will just be stuck adding one more <cite>post</cite> to recycled
    theory for the rest of our post-post-post-post-post historical existence. Maybe
    neo-primitive will actually just be primitive again and we can use sans not because
    it is more modern than serif but because we reinvented it."
  created: '2008-04-20 02:11:10'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Well exactly, there is the problem of the word but more crucially there is
    the problem of the supposed relationship of the Sans to the modern. That doesn't
    hold up either.
  created: '2008-04-20 02:56:20'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Long life to Miss Giggles and her shoes.\r\nI hosted <a href=\"http://homes.ieu.edu.tr/~asegalini/design/08_poster_Patur.pdf\">Mr.
    Patur</a> last Friday, a humble dedicated self-taught calligrapher, a great remind
    for why serif is still used and important today. The students were hypnotized
    and that made my day.\r\nYou can also define what is classic to decide upon what\u2019s
    modern.\r\nWe should also keep in mind that the contemporary trend (or duty) is
    to have well-thought collaborative serif/sans families.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-20 11:19:14'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "simple answer from a simple mind: Be there a practical or functional reason
    to keep or discard the serif or not, One flavour of type would be boring. \r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-04-20 17:26:34'
- author:
    name: Gutenburgz_1400
    picture: 114767
  body: If we had only one beautiful sans-serif the world would be a much prettier
    place.
  created: '2008-04-21 02:41:44'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Given the profile "Gutenburgz" has (click on the name) I think we probably
    shouldn''t take him too seriously. '
  created: '2008-04-21 07:07:49'
- author:
    name: Katharina
    picture: 112995
  body: "Quoting Eben:\r\n\"My pet logicalistic theory is that serifs provide extra
    data for the brain to use when recognizing either letters or word shapes as the
    case may be. The shape of a letter with serifs is more complex and there fore
    data rich. With a relative surplus of data perhaps recognition may be be accomplished
    slightly faster.\"\r\n\r\nJust my personal experience leads me to trust Eben.
    I find that I can read even blackletter better than sans.\r\n(No, we were not
    trained to read blackletter at school, and yes, I love grotesque and hope to see
    the day when it is politically correct to buy Akzidenz.)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fraktur_4769.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sans_3663.jpg]"
  created: '2008-04-21 10:29:31'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: Interesting ideas come out such debates but sometimes it can get very complicated
    for a student like me. It wasn't a discussion in class. It was just my thoughts,
    nothing more. I like type a lot.
  created: '2008-04-21 14:07:48'
date: '2006-12-01 11:43:19'
node_type: forum
title: why is serif still used today?

---
