---
author:
  name: Maurice Meilleur
  picture: 109643
body: "I'm looking for any and every suggestion Typophiles might have for resources
  on using and creating [[typographic ornaments]], both how-tos and examples. I mean
  both senses of \"typographic ornamentation\":\r\n\r\n -- the ornaments that come
  as glyphs in fonts (and so ideas on how to arrange them in layout programs like
  InD), and\r\n\r\n -- the use of typographic glyphs (ornaments and otherwise) as
  ornamentation or illustration, as in for example the <a href=\"http://www.typotheque.com/books/typotheque_posters\">Jigsaw
  specimen poster</a> that Typotheque released.\r\n\r\nAgain, any and every idea,
  personal favorites especially, would be welcome. Thanks!"
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Once upon a time, Lanston Type Foundry had some gorgeous examples of work
    with fleurons. Perhaps Gerald Giampa is reading and can post.
  created: '2006-12-04 21:11:54'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "BR!\r\n\r\nI don't know of any book per se, but certainly a cruise through
    the work of Bruce Rogers would give you lots of inspiration. \r\n\r\nAnother person
    who used ornaments with great skill is Fred Anthoensen, the scholarly printer
    who worked in Maine for most of the twentieth century. He did lots of work for
    the Peabody Museum of Salem, Massachusetts Historical Society, etc. Here's just
    one example of his work.\r\n\r\nBruce"
  created: '2006-12-04 21:15:39'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "Lost image! \r\n\r\nHey, folks, what do I do here? I wanted to include a
    picture with my post. After I wrote my little paragraphs, I clicked on \"insert
    image,\" browsed to the location I wanted, added the jpeg picture, and watched
    the byte counter go up to 253. Pushed \"post comment\" but when I visited the
    real deal, no picture. What am I doing wrong?\r\n\r\nBruce (so newly arrived I've
    not even unpacked my bags yet)"
  created: '2006-12-04 21:20:45'
- author:
    name: Action Hank
    picture: 111160
  body: "Probably not a useful guide, but very inspirational.\r\n\r\nhttp://uitgeverijdebuitenkant.nlware.com/boek/lijst.php?ID=124\r\n\r\nOr:
    what can you construct from one shape only? Quite a lot, it seems."
  created: '2006-12-04 21:51:10'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "http://www.octavo.com/editions/chkwks/index.html\r\n\r\nhttp://www.bilkent.edu.tr/~segalini/0506/gd2-project7_booklet.pdf"
  created: '2006-12-04 22:00:45'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "Bruce, don't give up!\r\n\r\nHank, exactly (one of) the right idea(s). De
    Does's Kaba stuff is a great example of the typographic ornamentation in which
    I'm interested, though it's a real b***h getting hold of his stuff when you aren't
    plugged into the type/design world professionally."
  created: '2006-12-04 22:39:43'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Bruce, you need to have the Flash Plug-in installed on your system. If you
    do you should see "Insert image" just below, and to the left, of the text entry
    box.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Bruce
      picture: 112056
    body: 'Okay, lemme try this again. Here''s a piece Fred did for some garden supply
      buddies in the 1940s. (He was a passionate gardener, which gives one pause:
      did the printer''s flowers come first, or the real ones?)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/plants_6483.jpg]'
    created: '2006-12-04 22:53:42'
  created: '2006-12-04 22:41:43'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "And I can't resist adding one more, even though this is not what Maurice
    was asking about. In this case, it's the title page for a novel, gotten up by
    the one and only W. A Dwiggins, but using only ornaments to compose the entire
    picture. Any of you who have worked with ornaments in metal will appreciate the
    work that went into locking up this little puppy.\r\n\r\nBruce[img:sites/default/files/old-images/enchantedvoyageTP_5554.jpg]"
  created: '2006-12-04 22:58:56'
- author:
    name: miles
    picture: 110468
  body: Exquisite. thanks for posting that Bruce.
  created: '2006-12-04 23:07:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\"Monotype\" FLOWER Decorations</em>\r\n\r\nA beautiful specimen published
    in London, 1924.\r\nI think it was written by Stanley Morison and designed by
    Frederic Warde.\r\n\r\n<em>The Manual of Linotype Typography, 1923,</em> is heavy
    on the ornament, with the \"Updikist\"(?) principal of historical allusion matching
    ornaments to typeface."
  created: '2006-12-04 23:13:07'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: <a href="http://www.illuminated-books.com/books/grammar.htm">The Grammar of
    Ornament</a>
  created: '2006-12-04 23:22:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: As a book designer, Dwiggins was the Mozart of using printer's ornaments--usually
    more sparely than in the exuberant example above. I think there is a list of books
    that Dwiggins designed--this includes emmbossed ornaments on the covers. I bet
    Tiffany can give you the reference if there is. Then you can go into the University
    library and really have some fun looking at these. If you've got a scanner handy
    post some of them for a treat for the rest of us!
  children:
  - author:
      name: Bruce
      picture: 112056
    body: "You are probably thinking of \"The Books of WAD\" put together by Dwight
      Agner (Alan Wofsy Fine Arts, 1977). The Typophile 2-vol chapbooks published
      shortly after his death are also a fine source. \r\n\r\nDorothy Abbe's (she
      was his assistant in his last years) book called \"Stencilled Ornament and Illustration\"
      (Boston Public Library, 1980) is also chockablock full of great things, although
      in this case it's his own delicious, home-made decorations rather than traditional
      metal flowers.\r\n\r\nMost of you will know the Caravan ornaments that he did
      for Linotype, as well.\r\n\r\nAnd yes, you are so right about the spine ornaments!
      Here's just a few of his books gathered together, all letterforms done by hand.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/shelfbacksfoil600_4532.jpg]"
    created: '2006-12-05 00:38:55'
  created: '2006-12-04 23:32:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "IIRC Granjon was way ahead of his time in\r\nthe design of repeating-pattern
    ornaments.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-05 00:31:19'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "A cold hard fact, Dwiggins is the shiznit when it comes to pushing fleurons
    and printer's ornaments around. I maintain the stance that he would have flourished
    in the digital world and would have fully enjoyed pushing nodes around to create.
    Don't you think Bruce? \r\n\r\nI'm not saying he'd have stopped using traditional
    methods, I'm just saying he would've been even more prolific."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Bruce
      picture: 112056
    body: Agree enthusiastically. He was an innovator and a tool-maker, whenever he
      needed to do something and no good tool for it already existed. And he was "with"
      the machinery despite his being a romantic and ardent humanist in other ways
      -- always trying to better understand how things worked so that his types could
      be manufactured well and then behave well on the linotype and on press. He'd
      have jumped right on board with digital tools.
    created: '2006-12-05 01:31:13'
  created: '2006-12-05 01:01:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Oh sweet Lord. Dwiggins was sooo good. \r\n\r\nWhat books today have such
    presence?\r\n\r\nWish I had a self of 'em!"
  created: '2006-12-05 01:47:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I admire Dwiggins - I think he had a touch of genius. Electra is amazing,
    and his M-formula stuff divine. I also love hybrid things, especially strange
    hybrid things, like mish-mashes of lines the circles. Nonetheless, to me his ornaments
    (did he call them something-broccoli, or maybe cauliflower-something?) are exceptionally
    ugly, out-of-this-world ugly. Every single time I see them I physically cringe.
    Sorry.\r\n\r\n> Dwiggins was sooo good.\r\n\r\nI think you wouldn't like him as
    much if he wasn't American.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-05 04:36:49'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "Man, it's like drinking from a fire hose . . .\r\n\r\nOkay, so I should check
    out de Does, Rogers, Dwiggins, Morison, and the Monotype and Linotype specimen
    books, as well as some of the Lanston stuff. Others?\r\n\r\nBruce, btw, besides
    posting some great images, the second piece you put up is in fact along the lines
    of what I'm looking for (note again the Typotheque Jigsaw specimen poster example
    above). "
  created: '2006-12-05 04:46:01'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: Actually, apropos Lanston, they have links on the pages for the "Fleurons"
    fonts to .pdfs showing examples of the the ornaments in use along with the associated
    keystrokes--very helpful.
  created: '2006-12-05 04:51:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> using only ornaments to compose the entire picture\r\n\r\nBTW this reminds
    of Trochut's superfunky Super-Veloz stuff:\r\nhttp://www.andreubalius.com/andreubalius/imatges/type/superveloz/superveloz-cartell.gif
    _\r\nhttp://www.tdc.org/news/2005Results/Veloz.html _\r\nNot that I like that
    either.  :->\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-05 04:52:38'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Hi Maurice.\r\n\r\nThe following comes from <em> A Suite of Fleurons </em>
    by John Ryder, Phoenix House, London 1956. \r\n\r\nIt's a small (privately published?)
    index of eleven historically significant ornaments with 'how-to' examples often
    placed on the facing page. I dunno where you might find a copy outside of the
    antiquarian booktrade or the university library interloans service. I picked up
    my copy for $10 \u2013 but then, I <em>am</em> Mr lucky-in-the-bookstore (!) \r\n\r\nThis
    material would be (as Tiffany says) the shiznit on a Flash-driven website... you
    could have the arabesques dancing all over the place.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fleurons_5066.jpg]"
  created: '2006-12-05 04:53:54'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: Ben, it's the shizzle as it is.
  created: '2006-12-05 05:30:56'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "Maurice,\r\n\r\nHere are a few more Fred-isms.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/COVAnnMtg47_5505.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/COVAnnMtg48_4863.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/snow-bound_6146.jpg]"
  created: '2006-12-05 12:24:06'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "Bruce, thanks for posting all the samples. They look great.\r\n\r\nThis question/topic
    is going to cost me; I've been able to track some of the books mentioned here
    in our library's system, and I found the ornamentation samples on Lanston's site,
    but de Does's <em>Kaba-Ornament</em> is nowhere to be found--so I wound up buying
    a copy from Nijhof and Lee's in Amsterdam, on the strength of the small bits reproduced
    in Mathieu Lommen's book. I'd be happy to return Bruce's posting favors when it
    arrives.\r\n\r\nWhy couldn't I have asked a question about something nice and
    cheap?"
  created: '2006-12-05 14:58:10'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: I'll have to dig around and see if I can find them, but I vaguely remember
    some booklets that came with an old Mac software app called Bordermaker. I seem
    to remember buying it around the time I had a Mac IIcx, maybe early 90s? I think
    it was a plug-in for Illustrator 5, if my memory serves me correctly. Anyhow,
    it showed examples of how to combine Monotype's digital Arabesque and Rococo ornaments
    in various ways. If I can put my hands on this printed literature I can either
    post some scans here or can send them privately to you, Maurice.
  created: '2006-12-05 15:28:39'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "The fall 1940 issue of <em>[[The Dolphin]]</em> has an article entitled \"Playing
    with Lead\" that shows some ornamental arrangements, including this one:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ornpdh120506_6674.gif]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Bruce
      picture: 112056
    body: "Paul,\r\n\r\nWow! That is fabulous!! Who is \"AS\" -- can you find a credit
      anywhere in T of C?"
    created: '2006-12-05 16:59:04'
  created: '2006-12-05 16:43:05'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: sorry, i guess i should have given credit above, but the A.S. is [[Albert
    Schiller]].
  created: '2006-12-05 17:34:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I can't imagine how they locked that job up on the press. They must have
    hand cut and jury-rigged some crazy stuff to get that to hold together long enough
    to pull a proof!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-05 19:02:24'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: Score another for digital, I guess. But imagine what that would feel like
    on the page . . .
  children:
  - author:
      name: Bruce
      picture: 112056
    body: For any of you who may be unfamiliar with the handling of metal ornaments,
      here's what a small unit of them looks like when assembled. This is about 4.5
      x 2 inches (11 x 5 cm). This took me several hours of work. Unlike straight
      comp, you are always having to think in two dimenions at once, measure but also
      depth. And this is an easy one because everything is square (unlike the sailing
      ship, which is almost unimaginably complicated). [img:sites/default/files/old-images/metal_ornaments_4284.jpg]
    created: '2006-12-05 20:52:58'
  created: '2006-12-05 20:37:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nice.\r\n\r\n> Unlike straight comp, you are always having to think in two
    dimenions at once\r\n\r\nIs \"straight comp\" really unlike that?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Bruce
      picture: 112056
    body: "Well, in my mind they are different. In normal composition, you have your
      stick set for a certain measure, and everything you throw in is the same height.
      You finish your line, add whatever horizontal spacing material you need for
      it come out full to the measure, then add whatever lead(s) you need, and begin
      the next line. You are thinking horizontally as you add those last bits of spacing
      material, so that the line is nice and tight to the measure. \r\n\r\nIn the
      case of ornaments, which may be coming from several different cases and be different
      point sizes, as you expand your line horizontally, all the inidvidual sorts
      must *also* attain the same vertical dimension. This is needed so that when
      the form is all locked up, you have as much squeeze pressure on the material
      vertically as you do horizontally.\r\n\r\nThat's what I meant. (Maybe I wasn't
      being clear, but for me it's a more challenging situation, more brain focus
      needed at all times.) "
    created: '2006-12-05 22:05:46'
  created: '2006-12-05 21:09:02'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Dwiggins is the shiznit</em>\r\n\r\nNow <em>that</em> is priceless. :)
    I actually went on an ornament hunt a couple of weeks ago in NYC. Found some nice
    ones in a rare book store. \r\n\r\nBut back on topic...Maurice brings up a good
    point that I would like to know as well, how do you lay them out properly in InDesign?
    Has anyone actually had any experience laying borders and such out in the digital
    realm?"
  created: '2006-12-05 22:23:15'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: 'Bruce, apropos your offer above (lost in the shuffle/flood, sorry): whatever
    you can share would be much appreciated. I''m a total beginner and eager to learn.'
  created: '2006-12-05 22:33:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Bruce, makes sense.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-05 22:49:41'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "As an admirer of ornaments and borders I've included a set with both fonts
    I've commercially released. I also try to make them as useful as possible.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=FOT0000085\">Eason's</a>
    ornament system is especially useful. They are monospaced and divided up for easy
    layering (multi color use etc). Monospacing ensures perfect registration and you
    only have to adjust leading in ID to create wallpapers. I'm sure this has some
    limiting factors too, but I've found it useful. Stephen Coles did a great job
    with Eason's ornaments in Sota's Interrobang booklet.\r\n\r\nWhen i've used other
    ornaments, I typically lay them out in illustrator, and import it as an EPS.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eason_6533.gif]"
  created: '2006-12-05 23:03:40'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "Randy: wow. Tr\xE8s cool. Are there specimens available? I don't see any
    on Veer's site."
  created: '2006-12-06 13:30:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "For something more recent, <a href=\"http://www.emigre.com/fontpage.php?PWhi.html\">Whirligigs.</a>
    The specimen book is very nice -- in which the ornaments, which are themselves
    created by rotating pieces of Emigre type, are made into fields by repetition.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    my own <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/fontfont/ff-fontesque/ornaments/charmap.html\">Fontesque
    Ornaments</a> and <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/fontfont/ff-fontesque/ornaments-black/charmap.html\">Fontesque
    Ornaments Black.</a> \r\n\r\nI love ornaments, but it's hard to work them in to
    a paying job. This was rather obvious, some stationery for a picture-framer, which
    I did in the early '90s using Patricia Saunders' <a href=\"http://www.fonts.com/findfonts/detail.htm?pid=205673\">Columbus
    Ornaments.</a>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Caroline_6693.jpg]"
  created: '2006-12-06 21:57:32'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "here's some work by [[Gerald Giampa]], Fleuronmaster\u2122:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.p22.com/lanston/Giampa/ENDPAPERS.html"
  created: '2006-12-07 00:44:12'
- author:
    name: miles
    picture: 110468
  body: Does anyone know where Gerald is currently moored?
  created: '2006-12-08 11:12:59'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "Gerald Giampa and his boat both live in Deep Cove, North Vancouver.\r\n\r\nHe's
    become a seldom/seen person, but you might get hold of him by phoning an antique
    store in Vancouver's Gastown: Salmagundi West.\r\n\r\nJim[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-12-09 02:10:45'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Nice link Paul \u2013 thanks for that. \r\n\r\nMaurice, once you've assembled
    all the gorgeous reference and mastered the exacting technique, you may find yourself
    wondering (as I do) 'How does anyone <em>find the time</em> to do this stuff so
    beautifully?'"
  created: '2006-12-09 02:33:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: You want a life too?
  created: '2006-12-09 04:34:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "\"Is it much to demand\r\nI want a full house and a rock and roll band\r\nPens
    that won't run out of ink\r\nAnd cool quiet and time to think\r\n\r\nShouldn't
    I have this,\r\nShouldn't I have this?\r\nShouldn't I have all of this, and\r\nPassionate
    kisses\r\nPassionate kisses, whoa ohh oh\r\nPassionate kisses from you\"\r\n\r\n--Lucinda
    Williams (lyric) "
  created: '2006-12-09 17:22:35'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "Ben, the question had occurred to me. I mean, I've been reading and posting
    here for a couple years and I haven't even gotten round to creating a cool avatar
    for myself. :)\r\n\r\nBut around the holidays I get some more free time, and I
    got jealous this year of my sculptor/painter wife who can share her vocation (hence
    more of herself) with me and our families and friends when she gives presents.
    Funny thing: my friends and family never want copies of papers I'm working on
    or lectures I give in my political theory courses.\r\n\r\nSo, I thought it would
    be nice to find something among my avocations I could share--type--and ornamentation
    was what occurred to me first. I may not know nearly enough to do anything for
    people this holiday season, but I at least can carve out some time to start thinking
    about what I'd like ultimately to be able to do, and learning the skills I'd need
    to do it.\r\n\r\nAnd I'm sure that you and others would correct me if I'm wrong,
    but the people who do ornamentation (as anything) really well, like Bruce and
    Gerald and Randy and Nick and others, don't <em>find</em> the time, they <em>make</em>
    it. I'll count myself lucky if I can ever do a tiny fraction of what the folks
    on these boards can do."
  created: '2006-12-09 19:28:55'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Agreed, Maurice \u2013 best of luck with it.\r\n\r\n(Edit: There is also,
    to refer to your original question, Oliver Simon's 'Introduction to Typography',
    published in the 1940s and 50s by Penguin/Pelican in the UK and probably distributed
    by someone else in the US. This should be cheaper and easier to find than the
    other source I mentioned. A relevant page is below.)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OSimon_6582.jpg]"
  created: '2006-12-10 01:19:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...and others, don\u2019t find the time, they make it.\"\r\n\r\nI am about
    to make more time to devote to typography by retiring from my day job. As of June
    1st, I will have unbound my shackles (and reduced my income).  \r\nI don't plan
    to sail like my friend Gerald Giampa--unlessyou count the winds blowing through
    bezier curves :-)\r\nJim, if you see Gerald, send him my regards!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-11 13:25:59'
date: '2006-12-04 21:02:12'
title: Books, etc. on typographic ornamentation?

---
