---
author:
  name: makenowonder
body: "For my thesis I am looking at innovation and the concept of 'originality'.
  It appears (to me at least) that innovation within typography is linked to a change
  in the method of production (eg. the 'new' typography of the 1990's and the advent
  of the Mac).\r\n\r\nI am interested in the work of Erik van Blokland and Just van
  Rossum. \r\n\r\nI would like to know who others find to be truly innovative at present?\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Joining & partecipating to this forum is innovative, also reading <em>The
    Elements of Typographic Style</em> by Bringhurst is innovative. "Originality",
    that is more personal in a way, like the concept of sex or other needs. Good luck
    for your project.
  created: '2006-12-06 00:14:17'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "Concepts of originality? I once took a class by Adrienne Leban which dealt
    with reassessing our criteria, examining our likes and dislikes, generally questioning
    our received wisdoms, truths, and instincts as it pertained to art.\r\n\r\n\r\nIs
    this what you're talking about?"
  created: '2006-12-06 00:20:39'
- author:
    name: makenowonder
  body: "Why do you think joining and participating in this forum is innovative? Why
    would reading 'The Elements of Typographic Style' be innovative - or has no one
    ever read it before? \r\n\r\nSolopsism: that is what I mean. I refered to 'originality'
    as a concept as it could be claimed that nothing is truly 'original' - and is
    merely a product of what has gone before. However I heard it said that 'the original
    person is not the person who breaks with tradition, but who brings tradition back
    to life again, reanimates tradition, makes it new...'\r\n\r\nI'm just interested
    in who others value in terms of innovation, and 'originality' currently? \r\n....and
    also way in which the concept of 'originality' has changed over the years."
  created: '2006-12-06 18:41:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "One thing's for sure, you can't teach it.\r\nYou either got it, or you don't
    got it.\r\n\r\n> linked to a change in the method of production\r\n\r\nOriginal/creative
    thinking can be \"woken up\" by external\r\nchanges, but that's the only true
    \"link\" I can think of.\r\n\r\nMarian Bantjes is innovative.\r\nKris Sowersby
    is innovative.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-06 18:54:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Adrian Frutiger's development of a true systematically conceived family of
    weights and widths originating with Univers was innovative.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-06 19:02:53'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Sent while holding nose...\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/29768"
  created: '2006-12-06 19:25:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "While Just & Erik have exploited digital technology to create a kind of random
    effect that was not previously possible, I don't believe such direct use of technology
    was the main impetus to the New Typography of the digital era. Rather, it was
    caused by the way in which Fontographer made it possible for just about anyone
    to produce working typefaces inexpensively and with little effort. This opened
    up a field of design which had been previously restricted to a few specialists
    working in a conservative subculture.\r\n\r\nI had spent a decade trying to get
    my type designs published, gave up in 1985, but started over in 1993. When I came
    up with the Panoptic alphabet (unicase + monowidth), this is a concept that is
    technology-independent. But I doubt that the set of circumstances that led to
    its creation would have existed pre-digital, because the probability that a type
    designer with an interest in concrete poetry, who happened to be teaching a course
    involving the design of unicase fonts, would consider designing a typeface for
    a one-off book of monospaced poetry, and put two and two together, is pretty low.
    The proliferation of type-design in the digital era raised the chances.\r\n\r\nWith
    regards to Zuzana Licko's \"Oblong\", it was something that could have been produced
    with any prior technology. But as was said somewhere in the pages of Emigre magazine,
    why would anyone have bothered? Modular and grid based types had been designed
    before, e.g. by Wim Crouwel in the 1960s, but the digital pixel has given new
    meaning to \"pixel\" fonts, as symbols of modernity, whether or not they are used
    in true pixel mode."
  created: '2006-12-06 21:13:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> why would anyone have bothered?\r\n\r\nBecause the grid is far more ancient
    than computers?\r\nIn fact hundreds of people made bitmap fonts before Licko.\r\nEmigre
    certainly had a greatness, but let's not succumb to\r\nthe ubiquitous fad of making
    it more than it could be.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-06 21:42:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Let me clarify the nature of Oblong. It differs from Licko's earlier bitmapped
    fonts, which were pretty straightforward \"technical fixes\", compromises, really,
    for the limitations of extremely low resolution grid fonts, trying to make them
    as much like \"proper\" type as possible. And indeed, as you say, Zuzana was preceded
    in this area by many other designers.\r\nHowever, Oblong, along with for instance
    Max Kisman's Network, were different in that they were using bitmaps in a formally
    inventive way, to highlight the effect rather than apologize for it -- and art
    directors would use these fonts in display settings.\r\n\r\nAs I mentioned, Wim
    Crouwel deserves the primary credit for this approach, but I believe that Oblong,
    in 1988, was the first digital type to take a similar tack, and I recall that
    it created quite a stir at the time. "
  created: '2006-12-06 22:34:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Originality can be judged only against history of previous efforts.\r\n\r\nWhen
    thinking about novelty I think it is important to keep in mind that originality
    is only one factor in the merit of an effort. Something can be original but boring
    or badly done or useless or even harmful. The idea that originality in itself
    is the highest achievement I don't think is right. \r\n\r\nIf something is well
    done and useful *and* original it brings some excitement that something that is
    only useful and well done will not. \r\n\r\nBut you can have novelty with bad
    taste and dullness and bad influence too.  "
  created: '2006-12-06 22:34:15'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "<em>One thing\u2019s for sure, you can\u2019t teach it. You either got it,
    or you don\u2019t got it.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat is the \"it\" subject, Hrant ?\r\n\r\nMatthew
    Croft, I was suggesting that book in particular because I am sure if you'd taken\r\nit
    from the shelf for the second time you'd have articulate your re-quest better\u2014\u2014just
    a thought."
  created: '2006-12-07 01:03:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Originality can be judged only against history of previous efforts.\r\n\r\nI
    don't agree. Originality is a thing unto itself, and does not require for example
    making sure nobody thought of your idea previously. That would be beside the point.
    In fact originality is essentially concerned with the future, not the past. The
    past, precedent, conservatism, are inherently unoriginal - which is not to say
    they're useless, not at all - but certainly much more prone to being \"boring\",
    for most people at least.\r\n\r\nAlessandro: originality; an innovative mindframe.
    To be fair though everybody and everything is an original. But most people/things
    don't cross that certain threshold of being \"significantly\" original, in terms
    of affecting the world at large. Most people/things end up blending into the mass
    that the originals seem to spike out of.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-07 04:16:36'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "<em>To be fair though everybody and everything is an original.</em>\r\n\r\nHrant,
    does that sentence need any punctuation ?\r\nSince I am studying design education,
    I don't understand what do you consider not possible to be taught, \"an innovative
    mindframe\" can't be taught ?\r\nI meant that asking for the \"it\" subject.\r\nBombing
    on your sentence above, I think \"everybody and everything\" could be original
    to God's eyes\u2014\u2014that would also help doing mechanical typographic exercises."
  created: '2006-12-07 12:00:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think Hrant is saying that \"it\" is originality.\r\n\r\n\"One thing\u2019s
    for sure, you can\u2019t teach [originality]. You either got [originality], or
    you don\u2019t got [originality]\"\r\n\r\nI also think Hrant is right about that.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-07 13:50:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There are people who build on the footsteps built by those before them and
    become part of the incremental progress that is the staircase of humankind as
    a whole.  There are also those who strike out on their own and build an elevator
    to the next level; these are the innovators (those with originality). They will
    cast their own longer shadow beyond the rest of us who light only one step at
    a time.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-07 13:58:15'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Personally I don\u2019t think \u201Coriginality\u201D is that artistic, that
    is why craft is not just what it looks like and feels like but also about how
    it works.\r\nWomen are creative, would they say this is not original ?\r\nSo,
    as I wrote in another post, innovation does not require starting from scratch,
    just because we can\u2019t start from scratch : the universe has been here for
    awhile. In fact, successful innovation often happens simply because a curious
    person paid careful attention to how something in the world works.\r\nAnd once
    they really understood how people use that thing, they could see what was both
    good and bad about its value to those people. With that understanding, a creator
    can apply their imagination towards new ideas that eliminate the bad and expand
    on, or leap-frog, the good. Technical brilliance may be the only way to realize
    that imagination, but it\u2019s the ability to generate or recognize those meaningful
    ideas that drives the best kinds of innovation.\r\nRather than \u201Coriginality\u201D
    being essentially concerned with the future, I believe that both \u201Coriginality\u201D
    and education, is a process of living and not a preparation for future living."
  created: '2006-12-07 14:22:49'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: 'Matthewcroft: I recommend a book, The Clockwork Muse: The Predictability
    of Artistic Change by Colin Martindale. Not necessarily about typography, but
    it delves into why there are art movements and schools. He pretty much dismisses
    the common notion that art changes as a result of social forces, and places it
    squarely on humanity''s pursuit for the novel. Of course take it with a grain
    of salt. He''s a cognitive psychologist in the American school of thought, and
    he has a very particular agenda. His attempts at quantifying art with statistics
    might turn some people off as well.'
  created: '2006-12-07 14:25:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Matthew, for your thesis you should include in your studies one of the classics,
    Jacque Hadamard''s <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Psychology-Invention-Mathematical-Field/dp/0486201074/sr=8-2/qid=1165501821/ref=sr_1_2/002-2366700-8164814?ie=UTF8&s=books">Psychology
    of Invention in the Mathematical Field</a>. Hadamard was not only an important
    innovator himself, but he interviewed a lot of greats from his day, including
    Einstein. '
  created: '2006-12-07 14:34:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I don\u2019t think \u201Coriginality\u201D is that artistic\r\n\r\nWho
    said anything about Art?\r\n\r\nThe past and the future are not the same.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-07 16:58:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Who said anything about Art?</em>\r\n\r\nIn which case, I can recommend
    David Consuegra's \"American Type Design and Designers\".\r\nIn particular, the
    section \"Chronology of type related events\" gives an excellent timeline of the
    technical innovations in typography over the centuries.\r\n\r\nAlso for technology,
    \"Inside the Publishing Revolution: the Adobe Story\" by Pamela Pfiffner. It may
    be self-published by Adobe, but it will give a good historical background to \"changes
    in the method of production\" that you are examining."
  created: '2006-12-07 18:48:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Which brings to mind, there are different ways of looking at innovation\r\nchronology.
    For example in type the classical view seems to be the common\r\n\"Metal -> Phototype
    -> Digital\" scheme. But to me if you look deeper, to where\r\nthings really matter,
    you see something else entirely: Gutenberg (or whoever),\r\nthe pantograph, and
    now Legato.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-07 18:57:36'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "@hrant\r\n>Legato\r\nThe typeface FF Legato? If so, why is it so remarkable,
    that you put it in your \"list\"."
  created: '2006-12-08 10:48:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I know it seems \"too much\", and I actually do feel awkward assigning\r\nso
    much credit to a single typeface, but it really is that special to me:\r\nhttp://typographi.com/000969.php\r\n\r\nIt's
    the first time the black's domination has been broken.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-08 15:45:08'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "<em>\u201CI don\u2019t think \u2018originality\u2019 is that artistic\u201D\u2014\u2014Who
    said anything about Art?</em>\r\n\r\nMe, but since you formulated a question,
    I think that\u2014\u2014Hrant and whom that may concern\u2014\u2014also carefully
    weight the relation between art and design ; it\u2019s not only due to the \u201Cold\u201D
    pantograph or the \u201Cnew\u201D softwares that, for instance, Bloemsma achieved
    his Legato, or is it, or, am I misunderstanding your post, Hrant ?\r\nI am aware
    this is such a broad topic, and very interesting, yet, I\u2019d like to bring
    back under consideration this <a href=\"http://www.typographer.org/2005_11_01_digests.html\">article</a>."
  created: '2006-12-08 17:16:13'
- author:
    name: Ringo
    picture: 111223
  body: "There is a difference between technological innovation and artistic originality.
    Actually, I don't think both phenomena have anything in common but by coincidence.
    Technological innovation comes from the wish to make things <cite>easier</cite>
    while being original is a matter of personal aesthetics.\r\n\r\nYou could say,
    nevertheless, that being innovative opens new doors to artistic creativity and,
    hence, originality. But only IF you want."
  created: '2006-12-09 14:47:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I don\u2019t think both phenomena have anything in common but by coincidence.
    Technological innovation comes from the wish to make things easier while being
    original is a matter of personal aesthetics.\r\n\r\nI think this claim is actually
    quite wrong. Psychologically the processes of creating technical and artistic
    innovations are very similar: they are both *problem-solving* processes. Innovation
    in art, and even moreso in design is not simply a matter of having a different
    personal taste. It is a matter of how the designer or artist understands his or
    her task, and the ideas he or she brings to carrying it out well, and to the specific
    challenge of the problem he or she is facing. \r\n\r\nFor example, the Impressionists
    had new information about visual perception that came from the theories of Helmholtz
    and others, as well as the budding innovation of photography as competition to
    painting. They wanted to keep painting fresh and relevant, as well as to incorporate
    the new insights on perception. Within that framework, that problem situation
    for painting, they came up with new styles. It wasn't a matter of personal taste
    alone. \r\n\r\nSimilarly, some of us trying to do fonts for text get into long--ok
    endless--discussions of the science of reading because we are stuggling with the
    problem of how to make text more readable, or at least equally as readable as
    the best text faces. \r\n\r\nAlso, one can see that cheap paper in the 19th century
    gave rise to the possibility of mass advertising. And this gave rise to different
    aesthetic demands than the original task of print, which was to reproduce religious
    texts and the classics of ancient Rome and Greece. Hence there was a proliferation
    of attention-getting faces, such as fat face, sans, etc. "
  created: '2006-12-09 17:05:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> or at least equally as readable as the best text faces.\r\n\r\nThis is
    what you really mean, isn't it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-09 17:21:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">This is what you really mean, isn\u2019t it.\r\n\r\nNo, I meant what exactly
    I wrote."
  created: '2006-12-09 17:26:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> I actually do feel awkward assigning so much credit to a single typeface,</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    don't really mean that, do you."
  created: '2006-12-09 17:49:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Historically, I have been known to say what I mean, and say all I mean. This
    is in fact the \"problem\" that some people have with me (even though they usually
    cover it up by claiming their only complaint is with my \"style\"). And tellingly,
    these tend to be the same people who don't have this \"problem\" themselves...\r\n\r\nWilliam,
    do you believe we can qualitatively improve\r\n-in terms of readability- on what
    we already have?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-09 18:00:06'
- author:
    name: Ringo
    picture: 111223
  body: "<cite>I think this claim is actually quite wrong. Psychologically the processes
    of creating technical and artistic innovations are very similar: they are both
    *problem-solving* processes. Innovation in art, and even moreso in design is not
    simply a matter of having a different personal taste. It is a matter of how the
    designer or artist understands his or her task, and the ideas he or she brings
    to carrying it out well, and to the specific challenge of the problem he or she
    is facing.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, you might be right. Nevertheless, I wonder if the
    claim of being artistically original can be made as clear as that of being technically
    innovative. The first is not quite as measurable as the second; artistic originality
    is mostly (the desire of) being <cite>different</cite> than others, where technical
    innovation has much more to do with ever-developing working methods, in order
    to reach perfection (whatever that may be).\r\n\r\nI think a designer should always
    be innovative, in a sense that he or she is always willing to explore new terrains
    in order to achieve the best results. Whether these results are original, never-achieved-yet,
    that's just a matter of coincidence. One shouldn't strive for it from the bottom.\r\n\r\nBut
    this could just be an example of self-indulgent word play. I might not disagree
    with you stating that an artist or designer shouldn't walk paved roads."
  created: '2006-12-09 19:45:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">artistic originality is mostly (the desire of) being different than others,
    where technical innovation has much more to do with ever-developing working methods\r\n\r\nI
    think we are more or less in agreement. I agree it is problematic to speak of
    *progress* in art, where as in science and technology these have a clear meaning.
    It is very hard to argue that more recent great pieces of art are somehow 'advances'
    over great ancient art. But it is easy to show the superiority of modern science
    and technology over ancient. \r\n\r\n>William, do you believe we can qualitatively
    improve\r\n-in terms of readability- on what we already have?\r\n\r\nI'm not sure
    what you mean by 'qualitiatively', but I think we may be able to make some improvements--at
    least I'm trying :)  \r\n\r\nI do not expect huge improvements in readability
    though. I do think that a great overall improvement in reading experience of newly
    published material might result from better knowledge. For then designers could
    devised both type designs and layouts that more consistently meet a high standard
    of readability. \r\n\r\nPersonally, I do not find Legato particularly more readable
    than other good sans. And I think good serifs are generally more readable for
    extended text at small sizes.  And to my taste the 'reversed contrast' features
    of Legato, such as the heavy top of the 's' are not very nice aesthetically. \r\n\r\nI
    do find Legato interesting, and want to see more of it in printed text, but I
    don't see it used. If you can refer me to some printed examples, I'd like to look
    them over. "
  created: '2006-12-09 21:05:03'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>But it is easy to show the superiority of modern science and technology
    over ancient.</em>\r\n\r\nIf you're equating \"superiority\" with \"efficiency,\"
    I'll agree.  Mostly.\r\n\r\nThat being said, the \"superiority\" of the techniques
    used by Stradivari, Guarneri, et al have yet to be duplicated by \"modern\" science,
    although there are some recent articles out about just what makes those instruments
    \"superior.\""
  created: '2006-12-09 21:15:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I agree it is problematic to speak of *progress* in art, where as in
    science and technology these have a clear meaning. </em>\r\n\r\n\"This is how
    one pictures the angel of history. His face is turned toward the past. Where we
    perceive a chain of events, he sees one single catastrophe which keeps piling
    wreckage and hurls it in front of his feet. The angel would like to stay, awaken
    the dead, and make whole what has been smashed. But a storm is blowing in from
    Paradise; it has got caught in his wings with such a violence that the angel can
    no longer close them. The storm irresistibly propels him into the future to which
    his back is turned, while the pile of debris before him grows skyward. This storm
    is what we call progress. \" --Walter Benjamin"
  created: '2006-12-09 21:53:42'
- author:
    name: Ringo
    picture: 111223
  body: "At grammar school, I was being taught about the renaissancistic way of perceiving
    art. By then, one considered three stages an artist should walk, which are, in
    a strict order: translatio (translation) > imitatio (imitation) > aemulatio (improvement).\r\nThat
    is to say, an artist should first study the work and achievements of ancient artists,
    then copy it, before he or she could even <cite>try</cite> to make up something
    better.\r\n\r\nSince the nineteenth century, the focus in art has been laid more
    and more on the third stage:  originality (innovation, \"improvement\") has been
    the main characteristic of \"good\" art; a good artist is someone who takes the
    experiment as a central part of his/her work.\r\nA conservative artist, at the
    other hand, leaning towards history rather than running into future, is at his
    best a good craftsman but he won't win prizes for his efforts.\r\n\r\nBut does
    this also hold for type designers? I think type design is one of the most conservative
    arts, simply because the playground isn't very large; you always have to deal
    with the strict limitations of the alfabet and the readers's demands for legibility
    and clearness of shape.\r\n\r\nIs the renaissancistic perception of art still
    valid within the area of type design? Is it necessary to first study the work
    of your \"creative ancestors\", copy their ideas and manners, <cite>before</cite>
    you could walk your own way, \"do it all yourself\"?\r\nOr is it possible to both
    wipe out history, start with a tabula rasa, and become a good & qualified type
    designer?"
  created: '2006-12-10 00:03:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>type design is one of the most conservative arts</em>\r\n\r\nIt's not
    art, it's design. However, if you compare it to fine art, or other areas of design,
    you will find that the type designers beat the artists to modernism by almost
    a century. After all, the sans serif -- pure function devoid of ornament, and
    unicase (all caps) to boot -- was a \"movement\" of the 1830s.\r\n\r\nTo say that
    type design is constrained by the alphabet is axiomatic, for all design has its
    constraints, it has a job to do. Buildings need roofs, knives must cut, phones
    must carry a conversation."
  created: '2006-12-10 02:01:00'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "&gt;&gt;type design is one of the most conservative arts\r\n\r\n&gt;It\u2019s
    not art, it\u2019s design\r\n\r\n<em>Its art if you say its art, and design if
    you say it is design.</em>\r\n\r\nLegibility proscribes  type as solely design.
    Legibility is important, and legible fonts pay a lot of this community's bills.
    But that is only an assumed constraint, and it is optional.\r\n\r\nType design
    is type design, not type artistry, because development as a medium was limited
    by requisite commercial equipment. Commerce requires readable type. All the design
    of type has led from calligraphy down to Helvetica and Clearview. It leaves me
    surprised how some here, with such libertarian viewpoints, balk at radicalism
    in type.\r\n\r\nType artistry has always been practiced on the side, but now more
    so than ever. This is just a baby medium? As the barrier to entry has dropped
    over the last few decades only, it will take time for this artistic field to blossom.
    There will be things to blow all our minds, and we'll all probably be too old
    to like it.\r\n\r\nOriginality and innovation are the same thing, more or less.
    You look at a problem, look around for solutions, and if if you find none, create
    one. Then, if others like and borrow it, you are considered either, which one
    depending on the field of discussion.\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>(No, I do not hate Clearview.
    Actually it is excellent art, as well as design. It just sets a pretty high bar
    for the industrial design-side of type, and is no more \"fun\" than it should
    be.)</em>\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The
    Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-12-10 03:27:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Legibility ...is only an assumed constraint, and it is optional.\r\n\r\nYeah,
    just like an engine in a car is optional. Some people might want a car just for
    decoration, and put it in a lobby or on on their lawn. Don't expect people to
    buy it to drive, though."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "Yes, yes, that was glib. As you immediately illustrated, I was contending
      that the limits of commercialism are the pressure for the legibility constraint.
      Now, cars? Let's destroy that analogy.\r\n\r\nPeople do buy cars for other purposes.
      General Motors has their thing, other builders have theirs. How's GM's plan
      doing these days? I see type as tools, and not simply as end products. They
      can be the beginning of a collaborative statement. I happen to be looking for
      an engineless car myself. To drive, even, once I put my own new motor in it-
      that's a collaboration, of sorts, too.\r\n\r\nSome valuable non-running vehicles
      (of the top of my head, there are thousands more: \r\n<a href=\"http://supermanfanart.com/superman/teamups/batmobile.jpg\">Won
      in a contest, sans engine</a> \r\n<a href=\"http://www.hmhd.com/webstore/viewiteminfo.asp?sku=94646%2D98&PID=bikeaccess&PIDName=Motorcycle+Covers&DID=Parts&Back=&aspname=viewprod\">Take
      a running bike and stop it\r\n<a href=\"http://www.gmperformancedivision.com/content/downloads/49/wallpaper/Cadillac16Concept_1024x768.jpg\">Conceptual
      work has a value, too.</a>\r\n\r\nAnd so on. Even with the excellent motor in
      a nascar vehicle, I wouldn't buy a car made of ads with painted-on lights, but
      some do.\r\n\r\nIf there is a place where the art and the design meet, its automotive
      analog might best be the ever-kooky <a href=\"http://www.baymoon.com/~auldane4/artcar/art%20car%20ship.jpg\">art
      cars</a> where function is minimized, but still of <a href=\"http://images.google.com/imgres?imgurl=http://www.seriouswheels.com/pics-abc/BMW-M1-Andy-Warhol-Art-Car-f-lr.jpg&imgrefurl=http://www.seriouswheels.com/abc/BMW-M1-Andy-Warhol-Art-Car-F.htm&h=925&w=1200&sz=306&hl=en&start=9&tbnid=ykMskcN-ZMFCbM:&tbnh=116&tbnw=150&prev=/images%3Fq%3Dart%2Bcar%26svnum%3D10%26hl%3Den%26lr%3D%26safe%3Doff%26sa%3DN\">varying</a>
      worth. Too bad most \"art\" cars are fugly.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
      Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine Type
      Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
    created: '2006-12-10 14:45:42'
  created: '2006-12-10 03:49:46'
- author:
    name: makenowonder
  body: "Thank you for your help so far - there are a number of interesting and pertinent
    comments. I've managed to obtain a number of the books mentioned.\r\n\r\nI particularly
    like this quote from 'The Society of The Spectacle.'\r\n\r\n\"Ideas improve. The
    meaning of words plays a role in that improvement. Plagiarism is necessary. Progress
    depends on it. It sticks close to an author's phrasing, exploits his expressions,
    deletes a false idea, replaces it with the right one.'\r\n\r\nI'm interested to
    know whether the internal structures we adhere to within art and design (ownership,
    authorship, copyright and such), support or stifle originality.\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-17 13:47:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Plagerism is necessary\r\n\r\nThis exaggerates a valid point--to the point
    \ of being wrong.\r\n\r\nPhilosopher of art R.G. Collingwood does point out, interestingly,
    that in some of the most fertile periods in art people took freely from one another's
    work: the Renaissance, the Elizabethian England of Shakespeare. But I don't think
    it is ethical, or necessary to copy directly, by plagerism in writing, or taking
    in another's glyphs and moving around a few points. It is a matter of taking ideas--which
    are not copyrightable--and applying them in your own work. \r\n\r\nJohn Lennon
    said that the Beatles constantly 'knicked' others' melodic ideas, 'but not so
    you'd know it'--which is the point. George Harrison went too far on one--'My Sweet
    Lord'--but even there it would have been OK if he would have acknowledged it and
    paid the originator for his contribution (which he had to eventually). "
  created: '2006-12-17 14:55:34'
- author:
    name: mb
  body: "perhaps it may be worth looking at the work of 8vo. their work on standardised
    billing systems for thames water and powergen has almost certainly - directly
    or indirectly - influenced the form of the paper bill today.\r\n\r\nfrom the book
    <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/8vo-outside-Mark-Holt/dp/3037780193/sr=8-1/qid=1166371364/ref=pd_bbs_sr_1/105-0378383-0299619?ie=UTF8&s=books\">8vo:
    on the outside</a>:\r\n\r\n<em>From the beginning, we were never interested in
    big ideas - that's what set us apart from what was happening in Britain at the
    time [1980s]. A starting point. A different attitude. Work from what's in front
    of you - outward from that. Even if you have to put the stuff there in the first
    place. The four of us [...] worked together because we believed that typography,
    the key building block of printed communication, could be the core ingredient
    of a graphic solution (unsupported by illustration or photography)...</em>"
  created: '2006-12-17 16:05:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> This exaggerates a valid point\u2014to the point of being wrong.\r\n\r\nI
    think you're having trouble with the dark half of Reality.\r\nAnd ignoring Intellectual
    Property, which goes far beyond\r\ncopyright, especially any Legal definition
    thereof.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-17 16:41:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">having trouble with the dark half of Reality\r\n\r\nThere is nothing dark
    about being influenced by others' work, so long as you are ethical. If you copy
    to the point where you owe a special debt, then be gracious enough to acknowledge
    it. If you are copying in a way that would violate copyright, then ask permission
    or pay the author for use. Not that tough. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-17 17:04:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's not being influenced that's dark, it's its inescapability, hence necessity.\r\n\r\nThis
    is parallel to your difficulty with notan.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-17 18:05:54'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "matthewcroft, first off let me say that 'originals' pay for what  understanding
    we have - with our very lives. And sometimes it's a very heavy price.\r\nI was
    born to, and raised in, a modern master's studio (painter). And I have met many
    many other masters, all of them 'gifted'. Only way I know how to say 'it'.\r\n\r\n'it'
    - is a clear understanding of what 'it' is that you do. And the 'vision' that
    comes along with 'it', will define you as an original. In other words, you'll
    have a 'voice'... sooner or later.\r\n\r\nAnd with that 'voice' you can speak
    the language of whatever 'it' is that you do, ok? Could be Type, Architecture,
    Photography, Politics, etc., etc...\r\nAnd after a while, you'll look back on
    your 'work'(if you live that long), and see the discoveries you have found. And
    'it' is hallowed ground.\r\n\r\nI don't think 'visionaries' and 'innovators' (like
    an Edison) are on the same page.\r\n\r\nVisionaries create from an 'understanding',
    those who innovate are more like explorers who have the ability to put 'a' with
    'b' and come up with 'c'. Personally speaking, visionaries don't give a sh*t about
    'a', 'b', or 'c'. It's not because we're not part of humanity - \"part of the
    main\" - it's more to do with being consumed. Consumed by an all encompasing 'it'/'understanding'/'vision'.\r\n\r\nHope
    that helps...\r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-18 06:43:40'
date: '2006-12-05 23:10:25'
title: Innovation and the concept of 'originality'

---
