---
author:
  name: Sebastian Nagel
  picture: 109594
body: "Dear Typophiles,\r\n\r\nis there anything that could help me understanding
  [[cyrillic]] font design and typography (letterforms, proportions, cultural differences,
  etc.) as a western-europe-guy capable of reading german, english and some dutch?\r\n\r\nI've
  found this one:\r\nhttp://store.artlebedev.com/catalog/books/design/kniga_pro_bykvy/\r\nand
  I think I'll buy it if it is available, but I won't understand much, except for
  the pictures.\r\n\r\nOr do you think I should stop thinking about it, as everything
  I ever could produce just can be inferior to people who \"really understand\"?\r\n\r\nThanks\r\nSebastian"
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The Type Directors Club is having a seminar on non-Latin scripts next year.
    You might check their website.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.tdc.org/events/education/non-latinweek-ends/index.html\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-11 14:57:12'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "unfortunately, most design info for cyrillic is in Russian. i've been meaning
    to attempt to translate some of the literature to English, but haven't got around
    to it yet...\r\nthis has some info that may be helpful (i hope):\r\n[[cyrillic
    how-to]]\r\n\r\nthe last article listed, in particular, has several illustrations
    that are quite helpful, even if you can't read the text.\r\nhttp://www.prodtp.ru/index.php?act=recipes&CODE=03&id=13"
  created: '2006-12-11 15:48:58'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "The essays by Maxim Zhukov and Vladimir Yefimov on <em>Language, Culture,
    Type: International type design in the age of Unicode</em> edited by John D. Berry
    (2002).\r\n\r\nI bet the articles by Vladimir Yefimov at Paratype E-zine would
    deserve an English translation as well : http://www.paratype.ru/e-zine/\r\n\r\n\u201CA
    Guide to using computer in Russian studies\u201D :\r\nhttp://www.yt.cache.waseda.ac.jp/fontguide.html"
  created: '2006-12-11 18:54:10'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Maxim Zhukov: \"On the Peculiarities of Cyrillic Letterforms\" (Typography
    Papers 1. 1996, Reading University Press). It is possible to obtain an electronic
    copy (in mediocre-quality PDF scan) from http://www.bl.uk/services/document/orddocs.html\r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-12-13 01:31:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Try to get a copy of Paratype's recent massive\r\nspecimen book, and observe
    observe observe.\r\n\r\nAnd as you're understanding Cyrillic, please try to also
    understand\r\nwhy it's become too Latinized, and how to make it less so in the
    future.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-13 17:35:06'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>And as you\u2019re understanding Cyrillic, please try to also understand\r\nwhy
    it\u2019s become too Latinized, and how to make it less so in the future.</em>\r\n\r\nShort
    Answer: Because [[Peter the Great]] wanted it to be.\r\nLong Answer: Read the
    article on [[Civil Type]] in <em>[[Language, Culture, Type]]</em>"
  created: '2006-12-13 17:52:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "By \"why\" I didn't mean the history, but the functionality, as in what's
    bad\r\nabout it being so Latinized. On that, there is no book -or even article-
    yet.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-13 17:54:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: .
  created: '2006-12-13 22:31:52'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I think that latinization is the expression of modernism within the realm
    of writing systems. In the 20th century, type designers were fond of chopping
    of serifs and simplifying forms, and also unifying the formal language of writing
    systems -- mostly by imitating the Latin forms. To me, modernism has always been
    an echo of the 19th-century fascination with the machine. \r\n\r\nMy idea for
    the 21st-century type design is a search for more natural, but also more ad hoc
    forms -- in all writing systems. Neither directly derived from the writing hand
    nor overly simplified. The technical limitations of type design are less and less
    existant, it's possible to draw thousands of glyphs, create glyphs made of components,
    engineer automatic, contextual substitutions. Typefaces need to find a balance
    between hand influences, mechanical influences and electronic influences. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-12-13 23:27:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> any new type design in any script.\r\n\r\nUhhh, except making a font in
    the Latin script Latinized is sort of OK.\r\n\r\n> surgically delete the individual\u2019s
    imagination.\r\n\r\nEqually bad is the desire/attempt to allow\r\nindividuality
    to subvert the needs of a society.\r\n\r\n> latinization is the expression of
    modernism within the realm of writing systems. \r\n\r\nLatinization and Modernism
    are indeed strongly linked.\r\n\r\n> Neither directly derived from the writing
    hand nor overly simplified.\r\n\r\nA big hug to you.\r\n\r\nEverything has a role
    to play, and the better we understand a\r\ngiven factor's stengths and weaknesses
    the better the Design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-14 00:40:41'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Uhhh, except making a font in the Latin script \r\n> Latinized is sort
    of OK.\r\n\r\nThat goes without saying. \r\n\r\nWhat I'm saying is that all writing
    systems have undergone \"modernismazation\" attempts in the 20th century, including
    the Latin script. For non-Latin scripts, latinization was one of the aspects of
    \"modernismazation\". I believe that the drive for modernism is no longer a good
    idea, which includes dropping the latinization trend for non-Latin scripts, and
    dropping other modernism-driven trends such as simplification, for all scripts.
    \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-12-14 04:40:22'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Uh uh, that sounds like stirring up a hornet's nest... :)\r\nMaybe I'll wait
    a while and just observe (or hide my own attempts long enough).\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the links and tipps so far. And of course I have a follow-up question: What
    are the (some) \xBBexcellent\xAB cyrillic typefaces (if this is possible to tell),
    I should have a close look at?\r\n\r\nSebastian"
  created: '2006-12-14 14:09:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: .
  created: '2006-12-14 15:16:07'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Sebastian, \r\n\r\nMatthew Carter\u2019s Georgia is most likely the best
    Cyrillic typeface designed by a non-Russian, and one of the best Cyrillic faces
    ever. It\u2019s perfect in every sense. \r\n\r\nThe work done by <a href=\"http://www.paratype.com/asearch/default.asp?search=safayev\">Tagir
    Safayev</a> and by <a href=\"http://www.paratype.com/asearch/default.asp?search=yefimov\">Vladimir
    Yefimov</a> for ParaType is seminal. \r\n\r\nEspecially check Yefimov's own Octava,
    his Cyrillic renditions of ITC Charter (great!), Kis (great!) and Raleigh as well
    as Safayev's Rodchenko typeface and his Cyrillic versions of ITC Officina Sans
    (great!) and Serif and of ITC New Baskerville. \r\n\r\nLater check Yefimov's Cyrillic
    versions of Futura, Futura Futuris, New Standard, ITC Avant Garde, English 157,
    and Safayev's Cyrillic versions of ITC Kabel, Humanist 521 (Gill Kayo), FF OCR-F,
    FF Meta. The ParaType version of Humanist 531 (Syntax) is also very good, by Isay
    Slutsker and Manvel Shmavonyan. \r\n\r\nSome of the new Microsoft ClearType fonts
    that ship with Office 2007 (Calibri, Candara, Consolas, Corbel) have very decent
    Cyrillics. I\u2019m not very fond of Constantia and Cambria as designs altogether,
    but I\u2019d say their Cyrillics are also not worse than their Latins. However,
    in general, Luc(as) de Groot, Jeremy Tankard, Gary Munch and John Hudson have
    a fairly firm grip on designing Cyrillics, while Robert Slimbach\u2019s Cyrillics
    (Minion, Garamond Premier Pro) are more controversial. \r\n\r\nThe work of Alexander
    Tarbeev and his students is also worth looking at. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-12-14 15:57:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I would say that if you go with your imagination, and design an original,
    new typeface, and make the \u201Cef\u201D work smoothly within that context, you
    will have a better chance at transcending the weight of history.\"\r\n\r\nI think
    this is the best approach to any type design as long as you are not attempting
    a revival where the historical part is your driving force.\r\nRegarding history,
    it has been written, interpreted, revised and reinterpreted many times. If we
    always base our design logic on this shifting sand, it will always stand the chance
    of missing the intension. Better to design in the present for the present and
    allow your new design to be fulfilled in its own terms.  Whatever you do, there
    will certainly be those who decree, \"but it isn't...[siting the historical references
    which they most agree with]\" so why not just let it be its own cosmos. It is
    probably more efficient to design something and reflect on its plus and minus
    characteristics than to do nothing because of an endless debate that stops you
    from ever getting started. There are those who will say it does not follow tradition
    and there are those who will say it is the same old stuff as we always see. The
    world has an ample supply of critics. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-14 15:58:32'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Robert Slimbach\u2019s Cyrillics (Minion, Garamond Premier Pro) are more
    controversial.</em>\r\n\r\nAre there on-line critiques of these, I'd like to attempt
    to read them, if i can."
  created: '2006-12-14 16:02:26'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Also, the work that Alexei Chekulayev has been doing for Linotype in recent
    years is quite good: <a href=\"http://www.linotypefont.com/109331/frutigercyrillic55roman-font.html\">Frutiger</a>,
    <a href=\"http://www.linotypefont.com/109252/saboncyrillicroman-font.html\">Sabon</a>,
    <a href=\"http://www.linotypefont.com/109049/universcyrillic75black-font.html\">Univers</a>,
    <a href=\"http://www.linotypefont.com/109286/wiesbadenswingcyrillicregular-font.html\">Wiesbaden
    Swing</a>, <a href=\"http://www.linotypefont.com/109280/sanmarcocyrillicroman-font.html\">San
    Marco</a>. \r\n\r\nBTW, Chekulayev recently extended <a href=\"http://www.linotypefont.com/search/frutigercyrillic\">Frutiger</a>
    for Linotype while some years ago, Tagir Safaev designed ParaType's own Cyrillic
    version of Frutiger called <a href=\"http://www.font.org/pt/search=FreeSet\">FreeSet</a>.
    Both are good, though I prefer Safaev's version. I think it should be interesting
    for you to compare these two. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-12-14 16:12:23'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Paul, \r\n\r\nI don't think there are any critiques available, online or
    offline \u2013 especially in English. I believe that the Russian type designers
    who would be able to do such a critique are far too polite and modest to actually
    publish anything that would criticize fellow type designers (who otherwise do
    excellent work, like Robert Slimbach). However, if you track Russian typographic
    publications, you will notice the trend that the work of certain designers is
    regularly praised and awarded, while others are left unmentioned. Also, typographic
    conferences such as ATypI are often a good occasion to sit down with some Russian
    designers and talk with them one-on-one. \r\n\r\nFor anyone interested in Cyrillic
    type design, I recommend the <a href=\"http://www.tdc.org/events/education/non-latinweek-ends/\"><strong>TDC
    Cyrillic Weekend</strong></a> which will be held on March 2-4, 2007 at the Type
    Directors Club in New York. Maxim Zhukov\u2019s expertise in the field of Cyrillic
    type design is unquestionable, he was the consultant who helped Hudson, Carter,
    de Groot, Tankard, Munch and many other Western type designers to get their Cyrillics
    where they are now. Maxim\u2019s approach on Cyrillic is quite orthodox, with
    certain rules and schemes. As with anything in typography, these rules are very
    practical to learn even if at some point, you decide to break them. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-14 16:30:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> make the \u201Cef\u201D work smoothly within that context\r\n\r\nThe context
    of the users is more important than the context of the designer.\r\nEspecially
    for text.\r\n\r\nAnd the necessity of going beyond precedent does not\r\nmean
    the designer's whim can be given run of the house.\r\n\r\n> Slimbach\u2019s Cyrillics
    (Minion, Garamond Premier Pro) are more controversial.\r\n\r\nInteresting.\r\n1)
    How so, exactly?\r\n2) Do you think this was intentional?\r\n\r\n> the Russian
    type designers who would be able to\r\n> do such a critique are far too polite
    and modest\r\n\r\nDamn shame.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-14 17:22:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: .
  created: '2006-12-14 20:47:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> that is best served by internal consistency within the typeface\r\n\r\nNo.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-14 21:57:39'
- author:
    name: Ringo
    picture: 111223
  body: "Interesting. I think the Cyrillic alphabet is really beautiful, Cyrillic
    text looks more balanced than its Latin equivalent, due to its lack of descenders
    and ascenders. More like Latin small capitals.\r\n\r\nI'm able to read it (quite
    slowly, however) and to write it, but I wonder what the regular pitfalls are for
    a 'Latin' writer, trying to 'control' Cyrillic lettershapes.\r\n\r\nOr could it
    also be an advantage, not knowing too much about history and tradition? You might
    get very close to the shapes themselves."
  created: '2006-12-14 22:04:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Cyrillic text looks more balanced\r\n\r\nIn the same way that Latin caps
    look more \"balanced\" than Latin lc. But there's a\r\nprice to pay - and that
    actually alludes exactly to why Nick and Chris are wrong.\r\n\r\n> could it also
    be an advantage\r\n\r\nThere is indeed such a thing as freedom from formal education.\r\nThe
    trick though is to maintain tons of self-doubt.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ringo
      picture: 111223
    body: "<cite>There is indeed such a thing as freedom from formal education.\r\nThe
      trick though is to maintain tons of self-doubt.</cite>\r\n\r\nSelf-doubt which
      is, if you cannot judge your own design properly in terms of legibility or suitability,
      close to not-knowing-what-to-do. I guess. Like writing a novel in a non-native
      language."
    created: '2006-12-14 22:27:43'
  created: '2006-12-14 22:10:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Here's an example of what I mean. The Cyrillic ZH is agreed to be one of
    the\r\ntrickiest to \"balance\". This is an unconventional ZH \"solution\" that
    I drew\r\nduring a (very short) trip to Russia in late 2004:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ZH_6248.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    think it's as sweet as Russian pastry. But I'm 100% ready to dump if the right\r\npeople
    give the right type of discouragement, no matter how well I might think it\r\nsatisfies
    some sort of \"internal consistency\". And this is something that somebody\r\nwho
    is essentially an artist would be qualitatively less likely to do.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-14 22:32:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant, I'm not quite sure why you're so against \"internal consistency\".
    Aren't you the one who considers Baskerville's slightly swashy italic \"N\" to
    be obtrusive?\r\n\r\nInternal consistency as I defined it, \"the individual gylph
    fitting well within the context of the other glyphs,\" isn't the idea the same,
    for the individual glyphs to mesh into the whole?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ringo
      picture: 111223
    body: "<cite>Internal consistency as I defined it, \u201Cthe individual gylph
      fitting well within the context of the other glyphs,\u201D isn\u2019t the idea
      the same, for the individual glyphs to mesh into the whole?</cite>\r\n\r\nBut
      how do you know if a typeface is internally consistent, or is considered so
      by a group of users, if you're not aware of the grammar of the alphabet? I mean,
      it could <cite>look</cite> good, esthetically, but if it's not <cite>read</cite>
      well, then you're back where you started."
    created: '2006-12-14 23:00:09'
  created: '2006-12-14 22:43:53'
- author:
    name: Ringo
    picture: 111223
  body: "Hrant: wow, that's really really nice.\r\n\r\nI think I know what you mean.
    But then it's more about having the 'right' people around you (people who have
    grown up with that specific kind of alphabet), than knowing everything about its
    tradition and conventions yourself. "
  created: '2006-12-14 22:48:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>it could look good, esthetically, but if it\u2019s not read well,</em>\r\n\r\nIf
    it looks good, it will read well.\r\nThere are many well-established Latin typefaces
    that have a character or two with an odd alphabet-form, which nonetheless harmonize
    visually with the rest of the font. You could look at the bottom bowl of Baskerville's
    \"g\" and say that's not right (as some revivalists have), the bowl should be
    closed, but it's really not a problem. Souvenir's \"g\" is even stranger, and
    yet it has become a well-loved face."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ringo
      picture: 111223
    body: "<cite>If it looks good, it will read well.\r\nThere are many well-established
      Latin typefaces that have a character or two with an odd alphabet-form, which
      nonetheless harmonize visually with the rest of the font.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's
      an interesting point of view. But that would mean that, for example, I could
      design a suitable Japanese textface just by studying the shapes, and the shapes
      alone. (supposing I don't have a clue about Japanese language but yet about
      esthetically good design)"
    children:
    - author:
        name: Choz Cunningham
        picture: 111714
      body: "<em>But that would mean that, for example, I could design a suitable
        Japanese textface just by studying the shapes, and the shapes alone. (supposing
        I don\u2019t have a clue about Japanese language but yet about esthetically
        good design)</em>\r\n\r\nYou might be able to. You would need a long list
        of popular fonts to compare variations of form, an idea of how mainstream
        each one is, and fat helping of artistic talent.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz</a>\r\n<A
        HREF=\"http://www.exclamchine.com\">!Exclamachine</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">.~</a>\r\n\r\n<em>p.s.</em>\r\nIf
        there is anyone out there who is interested in a giving feedback on the Cyrillic
        component of !Disc Inferno Internationale, I'd be happy to send them a custom
        beta copy to play with. <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/29757\">Eben's
        feedback really helped</a> improve ease of reading from the <a href=\"http://www.abstractfonts.com/font/11970?text=Quick%20Brown%20Fox\">free
        version</a>, with just a few simple tweaks. Keep in mind this is a theme-based
        display face, I'm just worried about serious showstoppers. Message me if interested.
        Thanks!"
      created: '2006-12-14 23:45:37'
    created: '2006-12-14 23:23:59'
  created: '2006-12-14 23:11:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> is considered so by a group of users\r\n\r\nFirst one would have to actually
    care about users...\r\n\r\n> ... if you\u2019re not aware of the grammar of the
    alphabet?\r\n\r\nIn fact \"internal consistency\" precludes any real sensitivity
    to\r\n\"the grammar\". Essentially, it's about the self of the designer.\r\n\r\n>
    If it looks good, it will read well.\r\n\r\nCodswallop.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-14 23:49:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: .
  created: '2006-12-15 00:06:47'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Choz, \r\n\r\nI would gladly take a look (adam at twardoch dot com). \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-12-15 00:28:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Adam, what about that ZH?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-15 00:37:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: .
  created: '2006-12-15 00:43:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The fact that it's easier should raise the warning flag even higher.\r\nIn
    fact I advocate making the \"identical\" letters not at all.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-15 00:54:24'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Hrant, \r\n\r\nI fully agree. If you read Maxim Zhukov's paper, you will
    find that he firmly believes that some Cyrillic letters *must* be identical with
    their Latin \"relatives\". I don't think it's reasonable. \r\n\r\nMost ParaType
    cyrillizations, and most Cyrillic typefaces altogether, suffer from the fact that
    Latin and Cyrillic share the same letter proportions. I think the Cyrillic lowercase
    could be slightly taller, and have larger sidebearings -- that'd be the minimum.
    I don't see why some forms couldn't be a bit different altogether. \r\n\r\nThis
    is wonderfully proven with ITC Officina and FF Meta. Of both Spiekermann's typefaces
    (both adapted for Cyrillic by Tagir Safayev), Meta actually works better in Latin
    text, but for Cyrillic, Officina is far superior. Officina used to be very popular
    in the West but when Meta was released, it gradually replaced and suppressed Officina.
    But not in Russia. Officina Cyrillic is still one of the most popular modern sanserifs
    there, and Meta is hardly present. \r\n\r\nOfficina has looser spacing and a higher
    x-height than Meta: for Latin, it is a bit over the top. For Cyrillic, it works
    perfectly. I don't even think it's an ad-hoc hypothesis: I believe that the intuitive
    choice of typographers in both script rooms and their \"natural\" preference for
    Meta over Officina or the other way around, delivers actual proof. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-15 01:37:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ".\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-15 03:36:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it breaks down in one particular circumstance,\r\n> which is where the
    two scripts appear together.\r\n\r\nOn the contrary, that's exactly where it's
    most potent.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-15 03:59:55'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\nboth in Renaissance and in modern fonts, Latin and Greek differ
    noticeably, and there is no \"problem\". The Greeks had their latinization phase
    but they're over it now. The Russians don't necessarily have the confidence yet.
    \r\n\r\nAlso, nobody said that the letterforms have to differ *noticeably*. \"d\"
    looks like a \"p\" turned upside down, and the top \"B\" counter looks like it's
    the same size as the bottom, but we both know that neither of that is true. Harmonization
    of forms does not mean making them geometrically identical. \r\n\r\nIn fact, the
    current Cyrillic faces often suffer from the problem that if you set two columns
    of text, side-by-side, one in Russian and one in English, with the same point
    size and leading, then either the English is too tight or the Russian is too loose.
    \r\n\r\nIn my opinion, the principle of script harmonization within multilingual
    typefaces is simple: when set side-by-side in two columns *and* when mixed together
    within one column, the scripts should *look good*. Now, what \"look good\" exactly
    means is up to the type designer to decide. I'm sure you'll agree that it doesn't
    have to be simple geometric copy-pasteness. \r\n\r\nAs for the Cyrillic \"ef\"
    in New Standard, it fits. It is a reminiscent of the era, and is probably a way
    of reaching out to the \"greekness\" of some Cyrillic forms rather than following
    a Latin model. In Cyrillic, the double and the reverse letters (ef, zhe, ya, yu
    etc.) are among the most unorthodox ones. \r\n\r\nI recommend that you order a
    copy of Yuri Gordon's book (http://store.artlebedev.com/catalog/books/design/kniga_pro_bykvy/
    ). It shows some nice examples of Cyrillic letterforms in different writing styles,
    and also their extreme treatment in logos -- which can be helpful in exploring
    the \"acceptable\" borders for each character. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-15 04:17:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: .
  created: '2006-12-15 04:29:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> either the English is too tight or the Russian is too loose.\r\n\r\nAnd
    the Russian appears smaller.\r\n\r\n> when set side-by-side in two columns *and*
    when mixed\r\n> together within one column, the scripts should *look good*.\r\n\r\nThis
    is a tall order - too tall for many and maybe most combinations of two* scripts.
    This is why Nour&Patria is a multi-lateral system. Yes, the archetypical Modernist
    decries it as Too Complicated, but as far as I'm concerned that's more of a reflection
    on him.  :-)\r\n\r\n* And when you get into more than two (which is rare, I admit)
    then it crumbles.\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m sure you\u2019ll agree that it doesn\u2019t\r\n>
    have to be simple geometric copy-pasteness.\r\n\r\nYou are?  :-/\r\n\r\nWow, Yuri
    Gordon's book looks scary-good.\r\nSomebody should write something like that for
    Latin.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-15 04:31:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I won\u2019t be convinced until shown an actual setting.\r\n\r\nI don't
    think even then. For one thing, you don't see a problem with the mainstream scheme,
    so the foundation isn't there. I'm sure your \"internal consistency\" crosses
    script boundaries effortlessly.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-15 04:37:29'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'm most curious to hear what is \"controversial\" about Robert Slimbach's
    Cyrillic designs.\r\n\r\nFWIW, Maxim Zhukov has also been a consultant to Adobe
    on our recent Cyrillics. (Though this should not be taken to mean that he approves
    of all of Robert's choices.)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-12-15 05:04:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Too Complicated</em>\r\n\r\nArt Director A to Art Director B,  \"Is that
    the Latin Cyrillic, or the Cyrillic Cyrillic?\"\r\n\r\n<em>a way of reaching out
    to the \u201Cgreekness\u201D of some Cyrillic forms</em>\r\n\r\nPossibly. My interpretation
    is that it's more an expression of the appropriateness of symmetry in a \"modern\"
    (didone) typeface.\r\n\r\n<em>I recommend that you order a copy of Yuri Gordon\u2019s
    book</em>\r\n\r\nI downloaded the sample pdf a while ago, and was mightily impressed,
    especially with the serifed text face it's set in. But is it published yet? \r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: gthompson
      picture: 109676
    body: "<em>I downloaded the sample pdf a while ago, and was mightily impressed,
      especially with the serifed text face it\u2019s set in. But is it published
      yet?</em>\r\n\r\n<em>Is Yuri\u2019s book only in Russian or is there an English
      translation as well?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, it's available, but the shipping is steep
      and it's all in Russian. It is very impressive and the illustrations are very
      informative. As for Russian the Wiley / Katzner Russian English dictionary is
      the only one I've found that has any sort of typographic terms in it. Anybody
      know of a better one for design and type?\r\n\r\n\r\nGeorge \r\nI felt bad because
      I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
    created: '2006-12-15 17:17:18'
  created: '2006-12-15 05:07:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Art Director A to Art Director B, \u201CIs that the Latin Cyrillic, or
    the Cyrillic Cyrillic?\u201D\r\n\r\nCyrillic Master, Latin Master, Subordinate
    Latin, Subordinate Cyrillic.\r\nI can understand if that's too complicated for
    Art Directors - I just hope\r\nthey don't find out what happened to Garamont.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-15 05:17:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> especially with the serifed text face it\u2019s set in.\r\n\r\nHmmm, look
    at the lc \"ef\": what do you think the chances are that its <cite>vertical proportions</cite>
    are \"internally consistent\" with its (prospective?) Latin companion?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-15 05:20:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: .
  created: '2006-12-15 05:21:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Your multi-lateral system would have to be widely adopted\r\n\r\nYes, Comic
    Sans is the epitome of typographic quality.\r\n\r\nYou might ask Emily Artinian
    why Nour&Patria was the only\r\ntype system on the planet that did what she needed
    done.\r\n\r\nRelated: http://typophile.com/node/29461\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW, it
    turns out that Artemius -Gordon's font- is a bi-script system. You might want
    to check out the terribly internally inconsistent vertical proportions...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-15 05:43:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ".\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-15 07:25:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Is Yuri's book only in Russian or is there an English translation as well?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Sebastian Nagel
      picture: 109594
    body: 'Chris: I asked them per e-mail four or five days ago, but got no answer
      yet...'
    created: '2006-12-15 15:46:34'
  created: '2006-12-15 13:51:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Sebastian. Let me know what they say?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-15 16:39:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Any plans for a Cyrillic along the same lines?\r\n\r\nIt depends. For Cyrillic
    I'd need plenty of \"native\" advice though. And as I've explained in my Spatium/Hyphen
    article it's more work adding a new script in a multi-lateral system: you have
    to make a new master with subordinates for the pre-existing scripts, plus you
    need to make a subordinate for the new script for each pre-existing script. The
    good news is that a lot of the process can be mechanized, like how Patria's Roman
    and Italic sprouted from the subordinate Latin, and how the subordinate Armenian
    came from the Armenian master.\r\n\r\n> I would expect it to accentuate the effect,
    in parallel\r\n> column setting of Latin and Cyrillic, of the Latin being\r\n>
    more tightly leaded.\r\n\r\nAn effect which, especially being \"pre-existing\"
    (I mean in the conventional scheme) is best alleviated by giving the Cyrillic
    a larger \"x-height\" (which is more significantly justified by the issue of apparent
    size). On the other hand, there are much worse things that different apparent
    leading, or even misaligned leading between two columns - for example a Cyrillic
    that's harder to read because the proportions are off.\r\n\r\n> Artemius\u2019
    descenders, x-height, sidebearings, and common\r\n> glyph-shapes appear to be
    the same across the two scripts.\r\n\r\nWhich coupled with the difference in ascenders
    makes\r\nthe whole too subtle, like a mistake, in your view, no?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-15 17:27:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Anybody know of a better one for design and type?\r\n\r\nATypI was working
    on a multi-lingual type glossary - dunno where it's at now.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-15 17:30:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> best alleviated by giving the Cyrillic a larger \u201Cx-height\u201D\r\n\r\nOr
    on the typesetting side by setting the Cyrillic slightly\r\nlarger in point size
    (with the same line-to-line leading).\r\nThis does introduce color issues (assuming
    a color-balanced\r\nLatin/Cyrillic system) but not much. In fact color differences\r\ncan
    be used to compensate for script-inherent apparent size\r\nissues (like how Arabic
    always looks smaller than Latin).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-15 17:55:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"For Cyrillic I\u2019d need plenty of \u201Cnative\u201D advice though\"\r\n\r\nI
    like this notion. Should that advice come from the Bulgars for whom it was originaly
    intended? the Moravians who first received it? The Bulgars who exentually received
    it or the Russ who eventually made it there's. Like, there's only one Cyrillic
    native?"
  created: '2006-12-15 18:25:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: .
  created: '2006-12-15 18:31:28'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Should that advice come from the Bulgars for whom it was originaly intended?
    the Moravians who first received it? The Bulgars who exentually received it or
    the Russ who eventually made it [theirs].</em>\r\n\r\nAll of the above."
  created: '2006-12-15 18:40:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "David, I guess pity those who need native advice for <cite>Latin.</cite>
    \ :-)\r\nOr maybe, we <cite>all</cite> need it.\r\n\r\nYou could pick your advisors
    based on potential sales, or number of users, or some other scheme. Fortunately
    type design is non-deterministic - there's never really a \"solution\", so you
    find the best advice you can from as many people as seems reasonable; the best
    you can do is never better than what your circumstances allow for. As I like to
    joke: there's always room for improvement... so stop trying!  :-)\r\n\r\n> Giving
    the Latin ascenders extra height is a nice touch\r\n\r\nThis does not jibe {edit
    - was \"jive\"} with your previous\r\nview that differences should either be none
    or obvious.\r\n\r\n> In a mixed setting like this caption from the Gordon book,
    set in\r\n> Artemius Sans, surely having different x-heights for the two\r\n>
    scripts, and different letter-forms or proportions for the common\r\n> letter
    shapes (B, C, e, a) would be an unnecessary distraction.\r\n\r\nI agree, but only
    because it's a caption: deliberative reading.\r\nFor immersive reading (much better
    with a serif anyway)\r\nthere is no distraction; the subconscious doesn't care.\r\nAnd
    the <cite>benefit</cite> comes through.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-15 18:47:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: .
  created: '2006-12-15 19:32:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "While frivolous theory can play havoc with <cite>other people's</cite> practice.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW,
    are there other Cyrillic (text) fonts where\r\nthe descenders are longer than
    the ascenders?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-15 19:36:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: .
  created: '2006-12-15 19:41:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "ROFL!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-15 19:44:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You two should make a movie.\r\nhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0109686/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-15 19:46:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: .
  created: '2006-12-15 19:52:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Bill\r\n\r\nYou rang? Yeah, theory should *adapt* to observation, just as
    in science. The eye is the final arbiter in type, not the theory--even though
    I think theory can be a big help. When theory becomes the--ahem--absolute monarch
    it can do a lot of damage. "
  created: '2006-12-15 20:08:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> theory should *adapt* to observation\r\n\r\nNah, theory should adapt to
    the needs of the artiste, like\r\nhis need not to have his opinions exposed as
    fraud in public.\r\n\r\nIn The Official Thesaurus of Shinnistan, \"flexible\",\r\n\"convenient\"
    and \"self-serving\" seem to be synonyms.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW, for the record,
    I really LOVED \"Dumb & Dumber\".\r\nBut it certainly helped that it wasn't cast
    as a documentary.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-15 20:16:30'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: name-calling not needed, let's stick to the topic, hrant.
  created: '2006-12-15 20:29:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/3Stoogessm_4192.jpg]'
  created: '2006-12-15 20:59:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A question, for Adam and of course others with good\r\ninsight into Cyrillic,
    and the perceptions thereof:\r\n\r\nDo natives feel that the lc looks like a mish-mash
    of UC and lc forms?* Maybe if only as a result of exposure to Latin? Or is this
    perception (which I very strongly have) merely an artefact of Latin nativity (and
    lack of Cyrillic nativity)? And if it's only the latter, how much does that matter?
    Lastly, if this sentiment is there, even mildly, has anybody done anything about
    it?\r\n\r\n* Not that the two Latin cases don't have that issue - although in
    Latin\r\nthere's the real distinction of case - you don't see much intermixing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-15 21:38:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: .
  created: '2006-12-15 22:20:15'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Chris, \r\n\r\nYuri Gordon's book is in Russian only but it's useful even
    if you don't read a single word in Russian. The illustration and the drawings
    included there already make it a good investment. \r\n\r\nDavid, \r\n\r\n> Should
    that advice come from the Bulgars for whom \r\n> it was originaly intended? the
    Moravians who first \r\n> received it? The Bulgars who exentually received \r\n>
    it or the Russ who eventually made it there\u2019s. \r\n> Like, there\u2019s only
    one Cyrillic native?\r\n\r\nThe Russian Cyrillic tradition now has the position
    of, say, the American Latin tradition. The Bulgarian Cyrillic tradition could
    be compared to perhaps the Norwegian Latin tradition, or something. I mean, regarding
    influence. \r\n\r\nYou're American, David, so you should know that you're the
    most important guys out there. Same for the Russians in the Cyrillic domain :>
    \r\n\r\n(Only half-kidding)\r\n\r\nBut it is true that the Russian type designers
    or consultants, such Vladimir Yefimov or Maxim Zhukov, are often more rigid and
    orthodox in their views than, say, Jovica Veljovi\u0107, who is a Serbian native.
    There was an interesting discussion between them at the ATypI Prague conference
    where Jovica showed his typeface in progress that showed some unorthodox Cyrillic
    forms. \r\n\r\nJovica Veljovi\u0107's <a href=\"http://www.font.org/fc/pid=427471\">Sava
    Pro</a> is worth looking at. It's small-caps-only but shows some wonderful \"brave\"
    Cyrillic capitals. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-16 02:11:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Even more than bravery I think Sava is notable for its sensitivity. The \"Y\"-shape
    variance between the three scripts it supports encapsulates what I've said about
    \"anti-identicality\".\r\n\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/type/browser/pdfs/SAVA/SavaPro-Regular.pdf\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-16 03:53:17'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Dez, would you stop that, please. I mean, at least put some caption(s) indicating
    who's who. Otherwise it's just gratuitous stooges, (or is that what you mean)?\r\n\r\nPaul:
    All of the above.\r\nI've seen that spec. The mystery left in this work, (regardless
    of script) is how one weights the choices: geographically, by population density,
    to a historical time or technology, or etc., so when one making the gross and
    then detailed decisions, one is targeting something less than all, or looking
    long at the end of ones own tail. I think, in general, if you want to serve them
    best you have to design their core glyphs first with a mind clear of your own.
    I.E we design around our use of our l.c. e.g.\r\n\r\nHrant:David, I guess pity
    those who need native advice for Latin. :-)\r\nEither I don't understand, or the
    word pity translates to serve if I say the same thing?\r\nThe point is, Latin
    has been hyper-styled for obvious reasons (massive cultural and ethnic absorbsion
    plus geographic spread, so, as other scripts are freed to do so, it's of benefit
    to examine what Latin's done, how and why. No?"
  created: '2006-12-22 17:02:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> how one weights the choices\r\n\r\nNon-deterministically. Non-Modernistically.
    As best one can.\r\nWhich is always better than either dismissing the issue or
    running away.\r\n\r\n> design their core glyphs first with a mind clear of your
    own.\r\n\r\nClear? Never!  :-)\r\n\r\nConcerning Latin what I meant was that if
    one needed \"native\" advice the way you worry it needs to be done, one might
    be in worse shape than for Cyrillic.\r\n\r\nIf you mean that Latin is more free
    than Cyrillic nativity-wise, I would agree on a certain scale, but never completely,
    and because it's used so much more broadly the net issue is at best comparable.
    For example note the issue of acute/grave accent angles in Polish versus French,
    or the particular -if nonformalized- preferences in certain African lanaguages
    that use Latin.\r\n\r\n> it\u2019s of benefit to examine what Latin\u2019s done,
    how and why.\r\n\r\nCertainly. Study, but not emulate, not per se.\r\n\r\nIn the
    same way that type should study chirography and take away things like stroke contrast,
    but not because of where it's coming from, but because it's good.\r\n\r\nAnd these
    two can be combined: in Thai the \"traditional\" style is monoline, but looking
    at Latin and being inspired to introduce stroke contrast (as is now done) is a
    good thing. But being inspired <cite>because</cite> it's from Latin (and/or chirography)
    can only bite you in end.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-22 17:49:07'
- author:
    name: Denis_Masharov
    picture: 123907
  body: "Type battle \u0416\r\nhttps://www.facebook.com/notes/cyrillic-typography/type-battle-\u0436/396063967072151"
  created: '2012-03-22 19:05:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://typophile.com/node/34029?page=1#comment-501159\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-23 15:59:48'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: 'This takes me back to <a href="http://www.flickr.com/search/?w=all&q=gary+munch+type&m=text">Gary
    Munch''s TypeCon talk</a>. '
  created: '2012-03-23 18:55:00'
- author:
    name: stanev
    picture: 114883
  body: "Right. \r\nDoes anyone familiar with Serbian Cyrillic know the \"proper\"
    way to design the Dje letter? (Appears as Dje-cy in Glyphs 2). The Wikipedia article
    uses two versions - with a loop similar to a reversed \"c\" on the baseline, and
    with a tail under the baseline- similar to the F clef (Bass clef). As far as I
    see in various fonts, the \"c-tail\" version is the more common one. So is it
    the \"proper\" one? Or should I include both versions as alternates?"
  created: '2014-11-27 07:57:59'
- author:
    name: stanev
    picture: 114883
  body: "Ans is it proper to construct the small case \"dje\" from hbar+j?\r\n\r\nEdit\r\n
    Problem solved: http://www.fileformat.info/info/unicode/char/0452/fontsupport.htm"
  created: '2014-11-27 10:06:49'
date: '2006-12-11 14:47:43'
node_type: forum
title: Understanding cyrillic letters?

---
