---
author:
  name: RusselQ
body: "How is it possible that DaFont.com can provide hundreds of fonts for free?
  Some look like existing fonts yet have a different name. What're the pros and cons
  of using a source like this?  \r\nJust curious.\r\n_\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Pros... they're free!\r\n\r\nCons... usually the quality isn't as good -
    and the families less complete. I have found very few free fonts that are good
    for more than a gimmick.\r\n\r\nI should add that you can sometimes get good quality
    free fonts on sites like myfont or fontshop, often one weight of a family will
    be offered for free as a teaser in order to entice you to buy the whole family."
  created: '2006-12-13 22:25:44'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: http://typophile.com/wiki/FAQ_Free
  created: '2006-12-13 22:42:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: See also... http://www.ascendercorp.com/webfontstudy.html
  created: '2006-12-13 23:43:31'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "<cite>Some look like existing fonts yet have a different name</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    is because there is also some piracy going on here. To bad that the people that
    runs these kind of websites dont have the knowledge or interest to prevent pirated
    fonts to end up here. I believe there is no such as thing as checking the sources
    here, when people upload fonts.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-14 07:04:28'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Do any of you have any knowledge \"for real\" about dafont.com?\r\n\r\nNot
    only do they know fonts - I, who was a typographer in New York City for 20+ years
    have learned from them...\r\n\r\nWhen a font is a \"rip-off\" and noted - it is
    removed IMMEDIATELY from dafont. They, [Rodolpho] really care what they put on
    their website.\r\n\r\nI use to believe that if someone is selling a font commercially
    - then there should be no rip-offs of it. However, learning that some of these
    fonts were designed in the 1800s or early 1900s - and in some cases the FREE font
    was the first digitized version out there - then, by all means - it belongs out
    there for the public to use. \r\n\r\nLinotype, Berthold, Alphatype, Mergenthaler,
    Compugraphic, etc. got enough of our money to keep them in business. The advance
    of computers for all - did them in. They were so busy selling our customers --
    ah, new money - new greed... they forgot about the typesetters that kept them
    going for 100+ years.\r\n\r\nThe example that comes to mind immediately (because
    it was recently on WTF) is Lainie Day digitized 1993 and was for FREE.  Lady Dawn
    and a Mr. Lackboroughs showed up in 2004 for PROFIT - designed by Charles P. Bluemlein
    prior to 1943 (Thank you Mike F.). Yes, Soft Horizon was known for cloning...
    and Sudtipos seems to have digitized most of Bluemlein's fonts -- but this is
    a case of the chicken or the egg folks.\r\n\r\nThere are so many out there - that
    were designed before copyrights came into effect or family estates demanded rights.
    \r\n\r\nI am sorry dafont no longer has a board to communicate with. The majority
    of their moderators were extremely knowledgeable -- and most were type designers
    themselves.\r\n\r\nYes, there are a lot of sites out there that are giving blatant
    not only rip-offs - but original commercial fonts for the taking... You may stand
    on your Sunday soap box at Hyde Park and complain about them.\r\n\r\nBut before
    you speak up about Dafont -- I suggest you get to know them a bit better.\r\n\r\nOh,
    and mas bien sur -- practice up on your French! \r\n\r\nAnd P.S. Before you go
    on about how great commercial fonts are - stop for a moment. I own most of OPTIFonts
    fonts - and they are out-and-out LOUSY. All commerical, all paid for. Hey, any
    of you have the original Adobe library, like I do? I still have the MAC disks
    - where Adobe sent me their \"REVISIONS\" on a regular basis... shall we go on...
    and on... and on...\r\n\r\nAnd to Russell - many type designers throughout the
    world have donated to that site. Every designer is listed -- including their website
    when available. Each font that is submitted is welcomed to be submitted with a
    \"READ ME\" - not all the fonts there are free - many shareware/charityware even
    some drinkware..."
  created: '2006-12-14 09:48:37'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Thank you Jackie, for saying what I was feeling but couldn't come up with
    words for.\r\n\r\nMy fonts are among those listed on daFont.com. At first, somehow
    they were included on the site without my knowledge, but at least proper attribution
    and the readme file was kept with them, and I have recieved inquiries from people
    who found them on that site. I've since sent them a few more."
  created: '2006-12-14 10:16:50'
- author:
    name: RusselQ
  body: "Thanks guys. I appreciate both sides of the story. Like \"patty\" I've rarely
    run into good quality free fonts, though the organic/funky/grungy ones typically
    are fine to use, but rarely come into play in my projects. But it's good to hear
    Jackie's take on it too.\r\n...The question arose when my company suggested looking
    to more \"free\" font sites whereas I want to justify the use of professionally
    created fonts from sites like fontshop, etc. But I guess there's a time and place
    for both. Thanks!"
  created: '2006-12-14 14:26:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">They, really care what they put on their website.\r\n\r\nIs this because
    they are afraid of the font vendors lawyers?\r\n\r\nOr because they're looking
    to protect their advertising revenue?\r\n\r\nOr some other reason?"
  created: '2006-12-14 14:39:23'
- author:
    name: tophy52
    picture: 109632
  body: "I think you can look at it this way:\r\nyou will find lots of fonts on the
    commercial sites (Linotype, ITC,...) that have the same name, but are designed
    with a slight difference.\r\nWhat are the differences between a real Helvetica
    and Sun Microsystem's Helmet ?\r\nAlmost nothing but very similar.\r\nsee http://tophy52.free.fr/forum/dafont/Helvetica_Helmet.gif\r\n\r\n\r\nAccording
    to this, i don't see why anyone couldn't <strong>create</strong> a font that look
    like a commercial font, with some differences, as long as the designer doesn't
    call it the same name and/or make it stand for the commercial one, or try to sell
    it as the commercial font.\r\n(You can't design fake rollex watches, \r\nwrite
    rollex on it and sell it for a rollex, that's called \"bad money\").\r\n\r\nTo
    answer Sii, there is nothing to be afraid of with lawyers, when we had to deal
    with Playboy lawyers asking to all free font websites to retreive the \"PlayToy\"
    font, We just did it, no problem, no hassle.\r\nAnd it's not the only exemple.\r\n\r\nEach
    font submitted to Dafont is compared, analysed because there are so many fonts
    now that it's easy to pass by an existing one.\r\n\r\nTophy52"
  created: '2006-12-14 15:50:22'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "<cite>Do any of you have any knowledge \u201Cfor real\u201D about dafont.com?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes.
    For instance, I just spotted in a couple of minutes a script which is identical
    of the same script which the agency I work for bought a couple of months ago (
    a Bitstream font), and believe me \u2013 we didn\u2018t do the copy :) Of course
    I dont know the history here, but it makes me wonder anyway. I have also spotted
    more fonts before.\r\n\r\nI am not sure if it\u2019s OK to name it here in public,
    since I have been deleted before hen talking about pirate fonts so I just send
    the link to Miss Tiffany as usual.\r\n\r\nI also know a type designer who have
    been pirated on Dafont, well not BY Dafont but by a user who uploaded a copy.\r\n\r\nG\xF6ran"
  created: '2006-12-14 15:58:50'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Hey, any of you have the original Adobe library, like I do? I still have
    the MAC disks - where Adobe sent me their \u201CREVISIONS\u201D on a regular basis\r\n\r\nTrue,
    but to be fair Adobe was breaking new ground, and there are bound to be problems
    for the pioneers. They should be judged by the quality they provide now, not back
    then."
  created: '2006-12-14 16:02:41'
- author:
    name: tophy52
    picture: 109632
  body: "<i>I also know a type designer who have been pirated on Dafont, well not
    BY Dafont but by a user who uploaded a copy.</i>\r\n\r\nThat's too easy to say,
    G\xF6ran, you should provide an example of what you affirm.\r\n\r\nIf you looked
    at the font closely, you would probably realise it was not a \"copy\" but a similar
    one, with enough differences that made it a new creation, as  i said above.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nTophy52\r\nDafont.com"
  created: '2006-12-14 17:04:54'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">To answer Sii, there is nothing to be afraid of with lawyers\r\n\r\nSo what's
    the motivation? "
  created: '2006-12-14 17:15:47'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: But Tophy, how do you know when you've made enough changes for it to be original.
    AFAIK the word "changes" implies derivative, and derivatives aren't allowed by
    90% of the EULAs out there.
  created: '2006-12-14 17:22:21'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Tophy, se my message to you.\r\n\r\nThe fonts are identical, arent they?\r\nEDIT:
    You are not accepting that another user contact you, so I could not send the example
    to you."
  created: '2006-12-14 17:49:12'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "<cite>If you looked at the font closely, you would probably realise it was
    not a \u201Ccopy\u201D but a similar one, with enough differences that made it
    a new creation, as i said above.</cite>\r\n\r\nQuestion; If I open up a font in
    FontLab, apply the automatic bold effect, move a few nodes on every letter and
    then make the whole font italic. Is this \"legal\" according to Dafont?\r\n\r\nAnother
    question; If I download a PDF specimen sheet and from that generate a Truetype
    font that is similar, either I redraw the curves or use an application to \"steal\"
    the curves. Finally I make a font out of this and publish on Dafont. Is this legal
    according to Dafont?\r\n\r\nDon\u2018t get me wrong, I dont mean to prosecute
    Dafont, I just want to encourage the people who runs the site that they should
    check the sources better before publishing the fonts on the site. Not after it\u2019s
    been spotted as a copy by the owner or a foundry \u2013 before it\u2019s even
    published."
  created: '2006-12-14 18:19:45'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: '...And <em>that</em> Jimmy, was how Font Wars: Episode 15 began! :)'
  created: '2006-12-14 18:29:36'
- author:
    name: tophy52
    picture: 109632
  body: "Arf, I guess i didn't even look at the options of my account for private
    messages.\r\nBut it's a board, let's just talk here.\r\n\r\nG\xF6ran, \r\nif you
    were doing such a thing as opening an existing font in a software to try to modify
    it, \r\nwho else but you could decide how far you could modify it to feel at ease
    and be able to say \"it looks good enough\"?\r\nWho else but you could say it's
    different enough not to be harrassed by the company lawyers?\r\n\r\nI guess, then,
    that you could submit it to Dafont or to any other free fonts website and if we
    felt like it's different enough, we could upload it.\r\n\r\nIs it clear?\r\n\r\nDafont
    is quite known, our board was in french and english (it should re-open sooner
    or later...), Rodolphe, the owner receives many fonts to be submitted, but so
    far he never told us he had big troubles with a major foundry.\r\n\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://tophy52.free.fr\">Tophy52</a>\r\nDafont.com\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-14 19:50:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"if you were doing such a thing as opening an existing font in a software
    to try to modify it,\r\nwho else but you could decide how far you could modify
    it to feel at ease and be able to say \u201Cit looks good enough\u201D?\"\r\n\r\nWhy
    do you need to open some elses font to begin with? Why don't you design your own
    font from scratch to begin with?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-14 20:22:39'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Goran Soderstrom \r\n\r\nGoran - please use something better than a Bitstream
    font. They didn't want to pay many licensing fees and renamed fonts -- redrew
    them - normally a bit wider than the original and then sold them.\r\n\r\n****\r\n\r\nsii
    \r\n\r\nFor your personal interest - dafont just likes to be a free site -- not
    interested in stepping on anyone's toes. The people that give it the most hassle
    were ourselves - the moderators. Many times dafont would show us a font if they
    weren't certain of its humble beginnings to see or know if it was commercial and
    known to us.\r\n\r\nThey manage (as of today)\r\n7176 fonts of which :\r\n1859
    with accents \r\n1143 with the Euro symbol\r\n\r\nWhen I am moderating on WTF
    and a \"freebie/shareware/charityware/drinkware\" font comes up - I try to first
    refer the person looking to dafont. Why you ask? Because I am confident that I
    am dealing with a site that is not trying to, once again, step on anyone's toes.
    They are not harboring any illegals..."
  created: '2006-12-14 20:33:34'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "<cite>G\xF6ran, if you were doing such a thing as opening an existing font
    in a software to try to modify it, who else but you could decide how far you could
    modify it to feel at ease and be able to say \u201Cit looks good enough\u201D?
    Who else but you could say it\u2019s different enough not to be harrassed by the
    company lawyers?</cite>\r\n\r\nHopefully Dafont. Get my point?"
  created: '2006-12-14 20:41:10'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "<cite>Why do you need to open some elses font to begin with? Why don\u2019t
    you design your own font from scratch to begin with?\r\n\r\nChrisL</cite>\r\n\r\nChris,
    it was just an example to illustrate my opinion on how sites like Dafont should
    act in order to prevent piracy."
  created: '2006-12-14 20:48:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Jackie, the story of Bitstream is different and more complicated than what
    you say. See <a href="http://typophile.com/node/28117?from=50&comments_per_page=50#comment-157813">this
    thread</a> with David Berlow''s account and John Hudson''s reply.  '
  created: '2006-12-14 20:51:00'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Only the law complicated it William -- I just stripped it down to skin and
    bones.\r\n\r\nAn interesting point for you though -- back in 1989 - the original
    Adobe library - that means- yes all its fonts... was US15.000. While Bitstream
    offered its library to TANY (for those of you who do not know that acronym - it
    stands for Typographic Association of New York) for US300. My fellow typesetters
    bought the Bitstream - but none of the designers in NY were using it...they were
    too busy going to Sam Flax and using the real Adobe library. Still gets me --
    almost the same amount of fonts - and many of the same families - and a difference
    of only US14,700 dollars!\r\n\r\nOh, and URW was a mere $699 for their two disks...\r\n\r\nJust
    how many legal copies of Garamonds is a girl suppose to own?\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-14 23:10:13'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "<I> sii \r\n14 December, 2006 - 7:39am\r\n>They, really care what they put
    on their website.\r\n\r\nIs this because they are afraid of the font vendors lawyers?\r\n\r\nOr
    because they\u2019re looking to protect their advertising revenue?\r\n\r\nOr some
    other reason? </I>\r\n\r\n\r\nSii,\r\n\r\nI'm sorry. I left out a very important
    part about why Dafont doesn't put commercial fonts online - and it has absolutely
    nothing to do with lawyers.\r\n\r\nIt has to do with RESPECT. The owner knows
    that making a font is a long process - and a creative one. If a designer has chosen
    the path of getting paid (what a novel idea) then that is respected there.\r\n\r\nAfter
    all, most that help out there are designers, if not font designers. \r\n\r\nI'm
    so sorry you never had the chance to experience the forums. They were very interesting,
    and most outsiders would consider them brutal. Should some idiot ask any of us
    for a commercial font for free - well, they had their heads handed to them. And
    yes, we had fun asking if we could have the keys to their car, or did they mind
    that our friends couldn't feed their families...\r\n\r\nMaybe if it gets back
    on - you'll consider visiting. It would be a very enlightning experience for you.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-15 01:12:03'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Question; If I open up a font in FontLab, apply the automatic bold effect,
    move a few nodes on every letter and then make the whole font italic. Is this
    \u201Clegal\u201D according to Dafont?\"\r\n\r\nAFAIK, and IANAL, that is legal
    according to US IP law. \r\n\r\nFrom my understanding, letterform shapes can not
    be trademarked at all.\r\n\r\nFont names can be, and specific font outlines can
    be patented, but anyone can retrace/redraw a font and be in the clear in terms
    of IP laws.\r\n\r\nWhether it's morally right or wrong is a different debate,
    of course, and I have no idea what the laws are in different countries (or if
    my understanding of US font legal issues is even 100% correct...so someone jump
    in and correct me if needed!)"
  created: '2006-12-15 18:03:49'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "But breaking an EULA \u2013 that must be illegal, or? If the EULA says that
    no editing is allowed of this perticular font etc.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-15 18:27:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I am not a lawyer, but as far as I know, Goran is more right on this. \r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://cg.scs.carleton.ca/~luc/kinch.html\">Here</a> is a reference to
    the Adobe vs SSI, which seems to be the main case on this. According to the Luc's
    web site--and he is not happy with the ruling--SSI had taking existing data and
    moved it around a bit. They lost and Abobe and Emigre won.  "
  created: '2006-12-15 18:39:37'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: It is a sad day when a technicality is treated as a loophole (or excuse) to
    ignore the EULA. Is it even a technicality or just a gross rationalization? Shouldn't
    "right and wrong" figure into this discussion just as much?
  created: '2006-12-15 20:58:37'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "When we left hot metal type for cold computerized type - there was a case
    that was brought up before a Federal judge (talking in the States now). I don't
    remember the case -- but I'll never forget the TANY meeting about it.\r\n\r\nIt
    came down to a judge saying he could not tell the difference between fonts. It
    didn't matter if it was a serif font or a san serif. What came out of that ruling
    was that the drawings themselves could not be copyrighted but... the programming
    onto the disk could be. \r\n\r\nIt was also declared that a minimum of three letters
    could be changed and a new face would be born - but it had to be a new name.\r\n\r\nI
    was an Alphatype shop at the time. It is why our Helvetica was called Claro, our
    Optima was Musica, our Times Roman was English, etc. Most of Alphatype fonts had
    the capital R, the asterick and one other letter (I can never remember which one
    they picked on) different from the original drawings.\r\n\r\nThings really haven't
    changed that much."
  created: '2006-12-15 21:51:57'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "<cite>It was also declared that a minimum of three letters could be changed
    and a new face would be born - but it had to be a new name.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    was an Alphatype shop at the time. It is why our Helvetica was called Claro, our
    Optima was Musica, our Times Roman was English, etc. Most of Alphatype fonts had
    the capital R, the asterick and one other letter (I can never remember which one
    they picked on) different from the original drawings.</cite>\r\n\r\n<strong>I\u2019m
    not sure I really believe all this but it makes me feel sick.</strong>"
  created: '2006-12-15 22:41:01'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>But breaking an EULA \u2013 that must be illegal, or? If the EULA says
    that no editing is allowed of this perticular font etc.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnything
    question involving EULAs is only likely to be answered correctly by a lawyer,
    and there's a very good chance that the answer will be that there isn't any good
    precedent yet. EULA issues are still pretty new, and the courts have yet to do
    a good job sorting out whether or not a EULA is actually a binding contract, and
    if so, what sort of penalties one faces for violating the terms. It also doesn't
    help that a font EULA creates interesting question where precedent is involved,
    because a font may or may not be considered a program, which could have a big
    impact on what other cases affect it. Worse still, judges generally don't know
    or care much about computers, so there's a pretty good chance that nobody would
    ever get a sane ruling out of a EULA-related case anyway."
  created: '2006-12-15 22:46:01'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Goran, \r\n\r\nIt doesn't matter if you believe it or not -- it is what we
    lived through in the 1980s.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile - I wanted to share another piece
    of typography history. When fonts were first being digitized for personal computers
    and Macs -- they came with very lengthy Agreement statements. Bitstream did not
    allow you to do any manipulation -- just bringing one of their fonts into Illustrator
    to outline, fatten, bend, etc. was just illegal to do. Adobe on the other hand
    were encouraging designers to do just that - but they owned Illustrator - made
    perfect sense. And neither \"foundry\" would allow you to collect your fonts to
    hand over to a printer to have your job come out looking just like you wanted
    it.\r\n\r\nAs a typographer at that time - I ended up having to purchase many
    different foundry fonts - just so I could run them on the imagesetter. Bitstream
    fonts were always wider - and would not allow a substitution of another manufacturer's
    font. Linographics, Compugraphic (later Agfa-Compugraphic), and the other old
    typesetters -- all had very similar weights -- and Adobe could be substituted...sometimes.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile,
    I remember when I purchased the URW library. (Talk about much better drawings
    for fonts, they even tackled some of the old problems from cold type that were
    found in the ITC font drawings.) URW understood that a designer work should remain
    in tack. They were the first to allow the designer to include their font to a
    printer to print the job.\r\n\r\nI think I'm rambling on at this point. What I
    think I'm trying to point out is -- many of the rules were made by the manufacturers.
    Sure, they have matured, but still - they are not all the same."
  created: '2006-12-16 02:50:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">It has to do with RESPECT.\r\n\r\nDo you respect them enough to share ad
    revenue with them? :-)"
  created: '2006-12-16 19:18:55'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "You are really a pisser sii\r\n\r\nmake a statement - get a 180 degree turn.\r\n\r\nThe
    owner of dafont gets advertising to keep his site on line -- someone has to pay
    for it... why should it come out of his own pocket?\r\nWould you rather he charge
    people for being there? He would... that would be like charging them for other's
    people work - the fonts. \r\n\r\nMaybe you should write to Roro at dafont - and
    get the info for yourself.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile, Merry Christmas."
  created: '2006-12-17 02:41:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> You are really a pisser sii\r\n\r\nDid you not see the smilley? ;-) \r\n\r\nI
    think you're taking this far too seriously. It's only a font archive. If the owner
    makes some reasonable money, then best of luck to him.  \r\n\r\nHappy Holidays!"
  created: '2006-12-17 04:04:09'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Hi Mark,\r\n\r\nOne thing about Alphatype - I guess you didn't catch it in
    my other note - when they were bought out by Berthold - and for the last few years
    of their existence - Alphatype shops had the real, true Helvetica -- and it was
    beautiful. Claro was our Helvetica up to that point, but the letters never quite
    fit, no matter how much time and attention we spent on kerning - it was actually
    a flaw in the drawings of each letter. For an Alphatype shop pre-Berthold -- Claro
    was Helvetica -- and our customers accepted it as Helvetica, just as they accepted
    Eurogothic for Eurostile, Musica for Optima... etc., etc., etc. And for every
    type shop with different manufacturer's equipment -- their versions of these beloved
    fonts were in direct competition with each other -- how -- because our customers
    depended on us giving them the \"real\" thing...and yes, our typesetting competitors
    would try to let all our customers know -- they had the real thing...\r\n\r\nI
    don't know if you realize it, but there are still countries \"setting type\" with
    our old equipment -- and there is still a fully functional hot metal typesetter
    in New York. They are still producing and for them it is most affordable (and
    productive). True, no where the amount of shops that we saw in the '70s and '80s
    (I understand Boro recently gave up their Alphatype equipment - the last in NY
    City) but in third world countries and small pockets of poor areas you'll find
    them...\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-17 11:54:14'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "don't ask how i ended up on this old thread, but i have to respond to this:\r\n\r\n\"...it
    was just an example to illustrate my opinion on how sites like Dafont should act
    in order to prevent piracy.\"\r\n\r\nI'm going to have to disagree here. I have
    typefaces for sale, and have one on dafont as well. And as far as I'm concerned,
    sitting around and expecting dafont or any other free-fonts site to be the guardians
    of anyone's intellectual property is akin to feeling like you should be able to
    have a 24/7 bodyguard for free. Preventing piracy is first and foremost the responsibility
    of the designer wanting to prevent being pirated. There are some steps that can
    be taken - for example, learning how to produce attractive pdf specimens that
    are invulnerable to extraction - but to expect others to be your own personal
    police force rings of elitism."
  created: '2011-01-02 04:02:29'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "heron2001 said: <em>It was also declared that a minimum of three letters
    could be changed and a new face would be born - but it had to be a new name.</em>\r\n\r\n<em>I
    was an Alphatype shop at the time. It is why our Helvetica was called Claro, our
    Optima was Musica, our Times Roman was English, etc. Most of Alphatype fonts had
    the capital R, the asterick and one other letter (I can never remember which one
    they picked on) different from the original drawings.</em>\r\n\r\n<em>Things really
    haven\u2019t changed that much.</em>\r\n\r\nOne difference between now and then:
    People using Alphatype equipment could not use Helvetica even if they bought the
    font from Linotype. Fonts were tied to specific brands of equipment. The formats
    were proprietary and incompatible. The competition back then was between machines,
    not fonts. Manufacturers copied the most popular fonts from other equipment to
    focus customers' attention on the features and benefits of their machine. Fonts
    definitely played a part in the marketing of equipment, but were not usually a
    deal-breaker as long as comparable fonts were available.\r\n\r\nToday, practically
    speaking, there is only one kind of typesetting machine: a personal computer and
    an output device. Also, for practical purposes, there is only one kind of font:
    the kind you can use on personal computers. True, there are different formats
    (PostScript, TrueType, OpenType), but you can use them all at the same time on
    the same machine.\r\n\r\nClaro did not compete directly with Helvetica in the
    old days. But today, a Helvetica look-alike competes directly with Helvetica.
    In this sense, things have changed. "
  created: '2011-01-02 05:27:35'
- author:
    name: LaurelRusswurm
    picture: 122220
  body: "Fascinating.  This thread is amazing.  I have really enjoyed reading this
    history.  \r\n\r\n@Curioustype \r\n\r\nI disagree with your choice of the word
    \"piracy\", since that word has lately been used largely to target personal uses
    of legally purchased copyright material, but the context implies  your primary
    concern is protecting your work against commercial copyright infringement, which
    can be more clearly referred to as \"bootlegging.\"  That said, I agree that the
    responsibility lies with the rights holder, rather than with dafont, which serves
    a valuable service to both designers and the public.\r\n\r\nYou should understand
    that pdfs are not anywhere close to being \"invulnerable to extraction.\"  If
    a bootlegger wants to bootleg it, there is nothing you can do other than go after
    them once they've bootlegged it.  If they want to, they will.  \r\n\r\n(Adobe
    pdf software is in fact constantly subject to both spyware and malware attacks,
    so can actually prove to make your computer insecure.)"
  created: '2011-03-20 22:54:28'
date: '2006-12-13 22:21:36'
node_type: forum
title: DaFont.com

---
