---
author:
  name: Miss Tiffany
  picture: 110563
body: "The question is, on the surface, really a no brainer. The answer is use InDesign
  CS2. But let me tell you my problem and then hopefully some of you can give me experienced
  opinions.\r\n\r\nI have a client for whom I am to typeset/design 2 books. Previous
  to this the publisher which my client uses only had Quark 4. But, miracles do happen
  and they  upgraded. They now have InDesign CS1 and Quark 6. I have very little experience
  with the .INX file format as for all other clients I handle the printing and so
  don't need to save backwards.\r\n\r\nMy question is this. If I do the books in InDesign
  CS2 and then export them as Interchange (.INX) files will the formatting be safe?
  Or should I just use Quark 6 and call it a day?\r\n\r\nThanks!"
comments:
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "http://www.markzware.com\r\n\r\np.s. Sorry not my experienced opinion on
    this."
  created: '2006-12-15 17:14:56'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: I've never had a problem with .inx, but know some who have. If it's possible
    to try saving another project down with the .inx, give that to them, and have
    them make pdf's from the file as it opens in CS1 and send them to you so you can
    check everything. Shouldn't be that involved.
  created: '2006-12-15 17:20:46'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: That is a good suggestion, Eric. I will try that.
  created: '2006-12-15 17:26:45'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: It is ridiculous that a publisher does not stay current. Buying them an upgrade
    to CS2 (or yelling at them until they upgrade) is better than the hassle of using
    Quark.
  created: '2006-12-15 17:50:27'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "I worked for a major publishing company in spring 2005 using Quark 5 on OS
    9. (Not kidding.)\r\n\r\n<strong>Edit:</strong> My bad, it was actually Quark
    4. :)\r\n\r\nTiff, I <em>have</em> had interchange files not work. I think that's
    risky business, particualry for such large text oriented documents. My computer
    <em>freaked</em> the funk out when I tried to keep both Adobe CS1 and 2 on my
    'puter. I had to trash all previous versions from my system. I would try checking
    with Adobe about it to see if there are any fixes or patches for this issue."
  created: '2006-12-15 19:30:38'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Oh...and problem with Quark 6 is its lack of OT features (amongst other things).
    I would steer clear.
  created: '2006-12-15 19:31:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have had some .inf issues in the past with Ind but none lately after reinstalling
    clean and patching. That said, I would take the chance on .inf before swallowing
    the bitter pill of Quark ever again. I used to be a real Quark champion and used
    their product from the very first version. After years of self destruction, Quark
    proved to me that they didn't give a tinker's damn about their customers so I
    drop-kicked their piece of crap into the toilet where it belongs and havn't looked
    back since.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: I know that was a bit wishy-washy Tiff. I
    will try to be more direct next time :-)"
  created: '2006-12-15 19:54:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>It is ridiculous that a publisher does not stay current.</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    not from their perspective.\r\nObsolescence is also an ideological issue.\r\nI
    try not to upgrade immediately on principle, and also to give 'em time to work
    the bugs out."
  created: '2006-12-15 20:06:08'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I try not to upgrade immediately on principle, and also to give \u2018em
    time to work the bugs out.</cite>\r\n\r\nWaiting for bugs to be dealt with is
    one thing (Not that Adobe cares enough to patch non-security stuff anymore...),
    but still using Quark 6, or for that matter the CS 1 suite, at this point is just
    silly. If nothing else updating everything to the CS2 suite brings in enough new
    time saving features that it should pay for itself."
  created: '2006-12-15 20:20:07'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I haven't had problems with .inx files. My big beef with InDy vs. Quark is
    that it doesn't let you view linked images unless you actually have them. With
    Quark you can at least see them, and even enlarge, reduce, crop, etc. even if
    you can't print. InDy just gives me big grey squares. Real pain in my a** as it
    required the client to gather these files from farflung sources and we lost nearly
    a week.
  created: '2006-12-15 20:26:57'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Thanks for all of your feedback!! <b>I just found out that they have one
    machine upgraded to CS2. Miracles do happen.</b>\r\n\r\nThe sucky part is I still
    can't use OT because it was already like a death-match to get these guys to license
    the fonts back when we were all using OS 9 and Quark 4. But this is a huge step
    in the right direction.\r\n\r\nThis community spirit is wonderful. I'm so happy
    I can come to you (all) and know I can get feedback."
  created: '2006-12-15 20:53:30'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Patty, I'm confused by your post. I routinely open InD files, created by
    other people, whose images are unlinked. I can see/scale the image (which is preview
    that InD created when the file was created, I believe).\r\n\r\nTiffany, is it
    imperative that the files go back to the client? Could you supply the final files
    to the printer?"
  created: '2006-12-15 20:54:15'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: It is imperative, unfortunately.
  created: '2006-12-15 21:04:21'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: Patty, are you sure your grey boxes aren't just a display performance issue?
    I just opened an InD file, broke the link to its graphics, and I can still see
    previews of all of them. It's just that the display performance setting has to
    be set to at least "Typical Display."
  created: '2006-12-15 21:08:14'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "You have to keep in mind that most of the features that were added in CS2
    do not convert well when going the .inx route to Indy CS1.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/products/indesign/newfeatures.html\r\n\r\nThat
    said \u2014 most of these new features dont show up in regular docs ; )"
  created: '2006-12-15 21:50:29'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: MY job just upgraded to cs2,what, 4 months before cs3? We were having trouble
    because some authors were sending us files in cs2, so they had 1 cs2 station.
  created: '2006-12-16 00:43:25'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "<em>Or should I just use Quark 6 and call it a day?</em>\r\n\r\nWell I'm
    relieved that they offered you a middle road, Tiffany. My position would have
    been to ask the publisher either to upgrade or to relinquish control over the
    final file handoff \u2013 strikes me as pretty unreasonable to expect both.\r\n\r\nLike
    Terry, I've had experience of multiple versions of ID not playing happily together,
    and the QX-to-ID conversion is simply an unknown every time one does it. None
    of this translates as the basis for a deliverable project to me.\r\n\r\nY'know,
    I never thought I'd find myself saying this here, but even if the choice were
    between <em>current</em> versions of ID and QX, it would still be a no-brainer;
    this is based on recent observation of massive industry indifference to (and absence
    from) the Quark 7 launches in Australasia. Has it been the same in the US?"
  created: '2006-12-16 04:01:41'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>MY job just upgraded to cs2,what, 4 months before cs3?</cite>\r\n\r\nFrom
    what I've read CS3 is more like six months out, but I'll be smiling if it only
    takes four. I'm still surprised how many businesses are on CS1, but I guess if
    you're not doing a lot of Illustrator/Photoshop work, it probably isn't a big
    deal. \r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>this is based on recent observation of massive industry
    indifference to (and absence from) the Quark 7 launches in Australasia. Has it
    been the same in the US?</cite>\r\n\r\nPretty much. Young designers have never
    used it and don't want to bother, older designers are still pissed about years
    of Quark not really doing anything special. And it doesn't help that the only
    cost that can make Quark competitive to Indesign would be less than zero."
  created: '2006-12-16 05:37:45'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "<em>I\u2019m still surprised how many businesses are on CS1, but I guess
    if you\u2019re not doing a lot of Illustrator/Photoshop work, it probably isn\u2019t
    a big deal.</em>\r\n\r\nThe point is, Tiff's associate is a <em>publisher</em>
    and anyone in that realm who accepts work from contractors or clients should have
    the latest version of all major DTP apps. Thankfully, they do."
  created: '2006-12-16 09:22:17'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: 'I''m in the same boat as Tiff, without the Quark side of it: one of my main
    clients (comprising about 30% of my workload), is still on CS1. I tend to mock-up
    in CS2, set the book in CS2, then convert to CS1 before shipping them a PDF for
    proofing. This allows me to use many of the new features during the intensive
    stages of design & setting, but also builds in a certain safety net as any bugs
    that get introduced during the conversion process will be found during proofing.
    It''s frustrating, and I''ve done my share of "encouraging" them to upgrade, but
    it''s really not that big a deal.'
  created: '2006-12-16 17:54:19'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I have the Display Performance setting on Typical and I'm still getting grey
    boxes. These are .inx files (I only have CS 1) could that be the problem? It's
    very frustrating.
  created: '2006-12-16 18:58:19'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I have to say I'm thankful that they do have CS2. I was <b>this</b> close
    to just using Quark 4 as I don't have Quark 6, and I wasn't sure how well the
    .INX file would work.\r\n\r\nDuring the production stage of the last book I did
    for my client using this publisher, I harassed them and told them to join us in
    the 21st century. We joked about it. I guess some other people teased them as
    well. I'm very thankful they  have CS2."
  created: '2006-12-16 20:06:36'
- author:
    name: filip blazek
    picture: 110363
  body: I think the "grey boxes" are solved in the latest update of InDesign CS1.
    Are you sure you have all the updates available? I remember there was a special
    update covering this "grey boxes" issue.
  created: '2006-12-17 12:00:50'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: 'I''m still running CS1 as well, Patty, but I don''t have the grey boxes:
    I''m not using .inx files though....'
  created: '2006-12-17 16:15:38'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "It's definitely an .inx thing. There is a patch available - I checked the
    Adobe site, but haven't downloaded it yet. One support doc I found claimed it
    only affected cross-platform files but I know the files I'm dealing with were
    created on a mac.\r\n\r\n...and it didn't work. I downloaded the update and no
    diff, still the grey boxes."
  created: '2006-12-17 16:56:18'
- author:
    name: filip blazek
    picture: 110363
  body: May be the application generating INX files must be updated to its newest
    version too.
  created: '2006-12-17 20:35:57'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Miss Tiffany, do I missed something, but why do you have to send your file
    to your client in the Xpress source format? \r\n\r\nI'd suggested to you to work
    with Indsign CS2 and export your file in pdf for your client.\r\n\r\nI've recently
    bought the Markzware plugin Q2ID (also existed for ID2Q) and it works really well
    when I transfert file form Xpress to Indesign CS2. Nothing is losted. I've encountered
    minor problem when I've printed the job I've transfered, but now it's solved.
    I've had to resave in an other format some image which one was'nt printed out
    at the final output."
  created: '2006-12-18 15:22:52'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: My client was importing Quark files into InDesign 2 and then converting them
    to .inx files for me. So there were several stages where the problem could have
    arisen. She ended up sending me the original Quark files and I had to (laboriously)
    copy the images into the InDy files. Which meant I had to re-silhouette some of
    the images. I know I need to upgrade to CS 2 but it's gonna hurt and I thought
    this .inx work-around would help me postpone it a little longer.
  created: '2006-12-18 15:26:27'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'The publisher for my client DOES AFTER ALL have CS2. Thank the gods on Mount
    Olympus! So there will be no moments when the file could fall apart. '
  created: '2006-12-18 20:08:24'
- author:
    name: plainclothes
    picture: 110490
  body: "not to further hi-jack this great thread, but...\r\n\r\nthe grey box thing
    is an .inx issue. the .inx file is just XML so when the file is opened, InD has
    to reconstruct everything, including the jpeg previews of all images. the fact
    that it doesn't retain the image info is actually a blessing because it's the
    only way to drastically reduce file size with an image-heavy doc."
  created: '2006-12-18 20:49:22'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Biddy - you must be at Berkley Books! LOL\r\n\r\nMeanwhile, just wanted to
    share that many times designers forget that they are working with outside suppliers.
    Many printers are scared of the \"next\" generation. When Quark 4 started working
    after the debugging (originally only page 1 would get screened and none of the
    other pages in the document would) and it worked well with Illustrator 5.5 and
    6.0 and Photoshop 4 (or was that 5) the printers were celebrating. They had spent
    nearly 100 years getting their shops to perform efficiently -- and then technology
    showed up.\r\n\r\nI am on Quark 6 -- and with the printers I deal with, I would
    want no other program. I have InDesign here, and I have had to use it on occasion,
    but find it awkward. But that's me; after all, I was an original Beta and Gamma
    tester for Quark and have stayed loyal. I own Quark 7 -- but because my main printer
    doesn't own it yet - which means he does, but hasn't perfected it on his equipment
    yet -- there is no reason for me to move on at this point.\r\n\r\nI do know that
    one particular printer in Pennsylvania adores Indesign and has started insisting
    his customers all switch over. But it's odd. Most printers convert our files to
    .eps and onto .pdf -- and btw, Quark 7's pdf's are easily recognized by old equipment.\r\n\r\nJust
    my two cents worth."
  created: '2006-12-19 11:44:43'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I don't understand why InD (in CS2) can't come up with a better way to save
    the file down. Nearly every other program (even notoriously un-user-friendly Quark)
    gives you this option, even tho you know you may lose some of the features.\r\n\r\nI
    still use primarily Quark too - mostly because it is my \"first\" language, and
    when I use InD I still feel like I have to translate. I'm sure that over time
    I'll get more comfortable with it. More and more of my clients are switching over
    to it, so I gotta ride the wave."
  created: '2006-12-19 15:28:06'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Interesting. It's rare here to find anyone using Quark, although I did have
    an interview at a publisher a couple of weeks ago, and that's the only thing they
    use.  (Heck, you can chart the changes companies I work for have gone through
    by leafing through my portfolio!  ;-)  )\r\n\r\nMostly everyone's switched to
    CS (although not necessarily 2): I need to upgrade my box to run Illustrator CS2,
    which is the only reason I'm still running CS1."
  created: '2006-12-19 16:22:38'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "It's just this old dog not wanting to learn new tricks. I was late to switch
    to OS X too because I was so comfortable in OS 9 and of course once I did I couldn't
    believe I waited so long. I'm getting more and more used to InD but I still have
    clients (yes, publishers) who require Quark as well and it's still my default
    go-to software when I need to do something quickly. \r\n\r\nAnd (gulp) I'm gonna
    need to plunk down for CS 2 soon. Ouch."
  created: '2006-12-19 18:13:06'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Patty you might want to upgrade to CS2 before CS3 is released as I think the
    upgrade price from CS1 to CS3 will be even more to swallow.
  created: '2006-12-19 18:33:37'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Ah but two upgrades? It might be best to just purchase CS3 new. When is the
    release date?
  created: '2006-12-19 18:35:34'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I'd guess end of first quarter.
  created: '2006-12-19 19:31:47'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Yeah, I was late to OS X too, but it's been worth it.  I'll upgrade to a
    Mactel box when most of everything I want/need/desire runs native -- until then,
    my G3 with as much memory as I can cram into it will have to do.\r\n\r\nDespite
    the limitations...."
  created: '2006-12-19 22:43:59'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'Dang, you''re still on G3??? Wow. Here''s my 2 cents: get an iMac from the
    Apple refurb dept. You can save up to 40% - I got a late model 20" souped up pre-Intel
    for $1299. They must have Intels by now too.'
  created: '2006-12-20 03:02:16'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Heck, this is only my third box, and I bought the first one in 1988.  ;-)\r\n\r\nI
    might bribe my brother-in-law with some cash for his 20\" G5 if he wants to upgrade
    when we visit in March.  He has a much greater need for speed than I do...."
  created: '2006-12-20 03:08:03'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: My third too... and each one cheaper than the last. My first was a Mac II
    CI for $3500 (just the CPU), greyscale monitor for about $2000 and laser printer
    for about $2000 as well. 8 MB RAM. But... I had it for years and years.
  created: '2006-12-20 04:31:21'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "Patty, you sound just like me! Old dog -- comfy with System 9 -- Quark default
    go-to software. I live and work out in the boonies in complete isolation, and
    used to be able to take care of everything in system 9, trouble-shooting printing
    and the network, etc. Once I moved to X I lost all that ease, although I'm slowly
    learning X. \r\n\r\nInDesign? I bought the whole CS suite when I upgraded Photoshop
    (I do a lot of work as a photographer so that's an essential tool) so got ID and
    swore I would learn it. But every big project that came along, I would stay with
    Quark. Now I have upgraded to CS2 and am still in the same boat: I simply have
    to commit to using CS2 on a real project and jump in feet first. Meanwhile my
    largest client and I do everything in Quark 6.5. I've been using Quark since 1986
    and despite all my complaints about customer service, company attitudes, etc.
    I find I can think more intuitively in it than anywhere else.\r\n\r\nI used to
    have a 21 inch SuperMac grayscale monitor and really miss it -- I found it to
    be so restful and neutral for working with lots of type on the page, but at some
    point, I think when I got my G3 back in 1993, I could no longer get it to sync
    up with newer computer.\r\n\r\nBruce"
  created: '2006-12-20 13:01:48'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>but I guess if you\u2019re not doing a lot of Illustrator/Photoshop work,
    it probably isn\u2019t a big deal.</em>\r\n\r\nAu contraire mon freire! Live Trace
    in Illustrator has saved me HOURS of work; time I'd waste converting vector art
    in Flash. \r\n\r\n<em>Biddy - you must be at Berkley Books! LOL</em>\r\n\r\nNope,
    one of the NY magazine publishers. They refused to switch to later versions of
    Quark because they were \"too buggy.\" :)\r\n\r\nBack on the InD Quark debate:
    the both have their moments. I curse them both. Quark handles images (wrap around
    text) much better than InDesign. It drives me to distraction making clipping paths
    in Photoshop only then having to draw a vector outline in InDesign for my text.
    Much easier in Quark.\r\n\r\nNo drop shadows in Quark (until v. 7). (BOO!) I like
    InD drop shadow feature, but they still have transparency issues when ripping
    to a printer of making a PDF. (DOUBLE BOO!) But the type...oh the type in InDesign
    makes all the headaches worth it. I've already gotten used to InD OpenType menu,
    and Quark JUST got one. Way to stay ahead of the curve. My evaluation: Quark for
    image based layout, InDesign for text based."
  created: '2006-12-20 19:23:26'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "\"It drives me to distraction making clipping paths in Photoshop only then
    having to draw a vector outline in InDesign for my text. Much easier in Quark.\"\r\n\r\nHuh?
    Using InD's text wrap palette, in the Countour drop down, select \"Photoshop Path\"
    or \"Same as Clipping.\""
  created: '2006-12-20 20:26:35'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "\"Quark for image based layout, InDesign for text based.\"\r\n\r\nYou're
    kidding, right Terry? You'd give up InD's easy back-n-forth with AI/PS, the ability
    to feather images, a robust bezier tool, PS layer control from within InD...?"
  created: '2006-12-20 20:31:15'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Huh? Using InD\u2019s text wrap palette, in the Countour drop down, select
    \u201CPhotoshop Path\u201D or \u201CSame as Clipping.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nDoesn't
    always work. Particularly on EPS files with white backgrounds. Trust me, I've
    tried that feature. Have yet to have it work properly."
  created: '2006-12-20 20:32:09'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>You\u2019re kidding, right Terry? You\u2019d give up InD\u2019s easy
    back-n-forth with AI/PS, the ability to feather images, a robust bezier tool,
    PS layer control from within InD\u2026?</em>\r\n\r\nI'd give up nothing, they
    both have their flaws. I use InDesign exclusively. I used to use Quark exclusively.
    They both have a ways to go in terms of functionalty. In an ideal world I could
    buy both. But until that day comes I choose InDesign. I'm just waiting for the
    two programs to have a kid\u2014 that would be awesome."
  created: '2006-12-20 20:36:53'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>I\u2019m just waiting for the two programs to have a kid\u2014 that would
    be awesome.</em>\r\n\r\nI always thought InDesign was supposed to be love child
    of Quark and PageMaker, but it seems still skewed towards PM's \"strengths.\"\r\n\r\nCertainly,
    CS 1 and 2 are a massive step-up from InDesign 1.5, which I used at one client's
    office for a project: now <strong>that</strong> was a clunker...."
  created: '2006-12-20 23:01:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I just want InD to be reborn without birth defects.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-21 00:35:14'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I thought Quark was still better for fine typesetting work, but I haven't
    used InD enuf to get to know kerning etc. Still getting used to different numeric
    values for tracking/kerning.
  created: '2006-12-21 00:35:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Patty,\r\nThat was my biggest hangup too.  Minus one track Quark is about
    like minus 5 in InD.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-21 00:39:11'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: We'll get there Chris. You CAN teach an old dog new tricks.
  created: '2006-12-21 00:40:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I just hope this old dog lives long enough to learn them :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-21 00:59:00'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: C'mon you two!  Even this old fart managed to roll over and fetch.  ;-)
  created: '2006-12-21 01:34:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I learned Rollovers in Dreamweaver and used Fetch to post to my site :-P\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-21 02:39:53'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Ouch!!\r\n\r\nI'm learning, I just like to play Old Fogey for the kids."
  created: '2006-12-21 04:59:37'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "Speaking of fine typography in Quark, I was particularly fond of 3.32r5 because
    I could subtly adjust the rag of FL text. That version had the add-ons \"Bob\"
    and \"Son of Bob\" and allowed me to track word spaces only, thereby retaining
    the desired color of the text within words, but ever-so-slightly expanding or
    contracting the word spaces to make lines longer or shorter in measure. I used
    that feature a lot. Then along came version 4 and, as far as I know, the word
    space tracking disappeared.  Does anyone know if this can be done in newer versions
    of Quark (I have 6.5 at the moment) or in InDesign (I have CS2)?\r\n\r\nAll the
    discussion here is certainly pushing me off my duff and I'm going to crack open
    InDesign and get to know it.\r\n\r\nBruce "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Bert Vanderveen
      picture: 109809
    body: "Bruce, ID2 has what Adobe calls 'increase or decrease kerning between words':
      keyboard shortcuts Alt+Ctrl+\\ and Alt+Ctrl+Backspace (Win), Option+Command+\\
      and Option+Command+Delete (Mac). Press Shift to multiply the amount by 5.\r\n\r\nI
      think ID is a lot better than QXP (have worked w Quark for 13 years and ID for
      5\u2026)."
    created: '2006-12-21 12:22:44'
  created: '2006-12-21 10:29:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I just like to play Old Fogey for the kids.\"\r\n\r\nMe too Patty--\"Shoes?
    You had shoes?\" :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-21 12:45:50'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "<i>No drop shadows in Quark (until v. 7). (BOO!) I like InD drop shadow feature,
    but they still have transparency issues when ripping to a printer of making a
    PDF. (DOUBLE BOO!) But the type\u2026oh the type in InDesign makes all the headaches
    worth it. I\u2019ve already gotten used to InD OpenType menu, and Quark JUST got
    one. Way to stay ahead of the curve. My evaluation: Quark for image based layout,
    InDesign for text based.<i>\r\n\r\nBiddy - If you go to Quark 7 - you must also
    upgrade to Mac OS 10.4 or higher. It doesn't work on the 10.3.9 or lesser.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    the drop shadows are nice - but if you hand your job over to someone on Quark
    6.5 - all drop shadows are lost.\r\n\r\nRIght now, if you use Quark 7 to made
    PDFs to give to your printer - chances are great that your printer, should he
    not have Quark 7 -- will not be able to use those PDFs. You have to open them
    up in the latest Adobe Acrobat -- and resave them. There is definitely something
    amiss here...\r\n\r\nBut you know - I'll still take all that over InDesign. Honest.
    Maybe I have become an old dog!"
  created: '2006-12-21 12:51:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "But your icon looks like a young pup! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-21 13:44:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, I'm somewhat surprised that you found the InDesign kerning numbers
    confusing, as they are exactly the same as what you are using when you design
    your fonts--1000 to the em. \r\n\r\nIf you use keyboard short-cuts to kern, I
    see it would be confusing shifting from one system to another.\r\n \r\nGoogling
    I found this tip from Ilene Strizver:\r\n\r\n\"If you use both QuarkXPress and
    InDesign (or another Adobe design application), remember that these programs kern
    to different unit values. QuarkXPress kerns to 1/200 of a unit, while the default
    for InDesign is 1/1000 of a unit. This means that a kern value of -5 in QuarkXPress
    is equal to -25 in InDesign. You can make the transition back and forth simpler
    by changing InDesign\u2019s default unit value to 20/1000 (equivalent to QuarkXPress\u2019s
    1/200) in Preferences/Units & Increments.\"\r\n\r\nOn the shortcuts in InDesign,
    from the help file:  \r\n\r\n\"Press Alt+Left/Right Arrow (Windows) or Option+Left/Right
    Arrow (Mac OS) to decrease or increase the kerning between two characters. \r\nWhen
    you kern using these shortcuts, the increment used is 1/50 of the em space for
    the current type size. \r\nHolding down Ctrl or Command when you use these keystrokes
    multiplies the kerning increment value by 5 with each keystroke.\"\r\n\r\nTranslating
    that into 1000-to-the-em points, Alt/Opt gives you 20 points (4 Quark points)
    and adding the Ctrl/Command gives you 100 (20 Quark points).\r\n\r\n[note: I was
    editing and clarifying this while Chris cross-posted. I came to see the source
    of the confusion--which Chris explains below--while looking into it further.]"
  created: '2006-12-21 14:19:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "William,\r\nI started using Quark in 1986 and used it until just a few years
    ago. I had developed and honed a series of style sheets with tracking and H&Js
    in Quark which was a very ingrained and productive part of my workflow for 15
    years. I did not start using FontLab until after I made the switch to InD so I
    had no FontLab history to refer to at the time. Also, there is a huge difference
    in creating a kerning pair as part of designing a typeface and actually laying
    out pages of text to fit a publication. The numerical value as a ratio does not
    tell you much, it is something you come to know by seeing and doing. It is more
    like switching from the English System of measure after 15 years of use to the
    Metric System without anyone telling you that there was a difference in size between
    an inch and a centimeter. You can teach an old dog new tricks but you at least
    have to inform the dog that the old trick has changed.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-21 14:45:45'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>You can teach an old dog new tricks but you at least have to inform the
    dog that the old trick has changed.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's not a \"change\" that's
    a \"feature.\"  ;-)\r\n\r\nSeriously, though, I did the vast majority of my work
    in DC on Quark, but when I moved back here and started cranking up my business
    again, I found that probably 99% of the work was in PageMaker, and then InDesign.
    \ When you don't get a choice from clients, you learn PDQ.\r\n\r\nI've got friends
    at several of the high-end printers here in town, and they tell me that Quark
    jobs are few and far between these days.  I know one of the mega advert firms
    here was strictly a Quark shop, but even they are converting over.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    it's a geographical thing?"
  created: '2006-12-21 14:51:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Quark is a dead dog here in the DC area now too.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-21 15:10:54'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Re geography: I once heard - some years ago - that while Quark was the lingua
    franca in NY, most of the country was still using Pagemaker, which surprised me
    since there was NO comparison btw those two softwares. And quite frankly, if Quark
    hadn't been so bloody arrogant about their upgrades and flexibility, Adobe might
    never have gotten their foot in the door. But I think even in NY where Quark is
    still used a lot, the trend is toward InD and unless Quark blows us away with
    some new hat trick that trend will continue. \r\n\r\nSo I gotta decide whether
    to plunk down the $500+ for the CS 2 upgrade or hold out until spring for CS 3."
  created: '2006-12-21 15:11:09'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Quark is a dead dog here in the DC area now too.</em>\r\n\r\nChris is
    right. All the major \"a$$es in seats\" staffing firms give InDesign tests these
    days, not Quark anymore. My day job also doesn't have Quark."
  created: '2006-12-21 18:44:59'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>So I gotta decide whether to plunk down the $500+ for the CS 2 upgrade
    or hold out until spring for CS 3.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think you're allowed to
    upgrade from two versions back. You'll probably have to buy a whole new package.
    I'd check to see which is cheaper, 2 upgrades...or one full price purchase."
  created: '2006-12-21 18:46:38'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'Well that''s the dilemma, 2 upgrades or the new package. Currently the upgrade
    price is just under half the price of buying it new... '
  created: '2006-12-21 20:58:59'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Adobe appear to very lenient re the conditions for upgrading. For earlier
    versions of CS a valid installation (or a serial#) of PhotoShop was enough. As
    there are plenty of cheap PS 7 packages around, the investment is quite reasonable.
    I don't think that policy is going the change\u2026\r\n\r\nEg the upgrade price
    for a full CS 2.3 Publishing suite is about 750 dollars. In this case Photoshop
    7 (and even earlier) is required. Updating to 3 may be 500 bucks\u2026\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-21 21:14:05'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Thanks for the stateside overview folks. Guess it's the same elsewhere in
    the world? \r\n\r\n<em>...unless Quark blows us away with some new hat trick that
    trend will continue</em> \r\n\r\nI asked the question because I was really impressed
    with the features demonstrated in the Quark 7 presentation in November, and the
    introductory/upgrade pricing was very very low \u2013 something like AUS $1500
    \ \u2013 but it appears that this is all happening too late to win any market
    share back. This is already having an effect on purchasing decisions at the University;
    QX is already being discontinued from one of the programmes I teach on."
  created: '2006-12-21 23:07:35'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Their arrogance did them in. If they had been quicker with an OS X upgrade
    they'd still have market share. I expect I'll still use both unless my clients
    all switch over to InD. Right now Quark is still very much in use in the publishing
    world.
  created: '2006-12-21 23:10:10'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I'll second Bert's comments about Adobe being very flex in the upgrades.
    \ I was still using PM 6.52 when I converted to OS X and was lucky enough to find
    the upgrade package to CS1 at my university store in the half-price bin -- as
    I've been taking Continuing Ed classes, I got the educational deal and managed
    to make the big jump for $110 Canadian.  \r\n\r\nEven with cranking out for the
    extra memory, buying Acrobat 7 Pro, and folding in the cost of my class, I still
    saved big bucks.\r\n\r\nSuch a deal...."
  created: '2006-12-22 00:54:18'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Patty contact me if you want to test ID2. Its really good, but I have to save
    to pdf to print to my local printer. The typographical controls are so superior
    to Quark (at least to the versions I am use to)
  created: '2006-12-27 20:26:59'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Thanks Dan. What sort of printer are you using? I'd be pissed if I had to
    do that.
  created: '2006-12-27 21:55:29'
- author:
    name: Plaintype
    picture: 111000
  body: "what i'd like to know is: will CS3 eat even more system performance, like
    it has been the case with the CS2 applications compared to CS1? i have the bad
    feeling of being forced to buy a new computer when purchasing CS3. and that would
    be a costly affair.\r\nany other opinions/concerns here?\r\n\r\n// alex"
  created: '2006-12-31 16:53:50'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I have a fairly new (one year old) computer so system performance isn't a
    problem. But my old creaky powerbook may argue otherwise when I upgrade.
  created: '2006-12-31 17:38:09'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: I just got a HP 6980 Ink Jet printer and it will not print native ID documents.
    I have to save as Adobe Acrobat file to make it print.
  children:
  - author:
      name: the design goddess
      picture: 112187
    body: "Are you still having to save as an Acrobat file? I just got an HP 6980
      as well and cannot print from Illustrator--it prints half the page and then
      a teeny, thin line instead of the second half of the page. \r\n\r\nAdobe said
      it's an HP problem; HP said it's an Adobe problem. "
    children:
    - author:
        name: tom cox
      body: Have you found a solution to the InDesign vs. hp 6980 problem?
      created: '2007-04-10 02:13:59'
    created: '2007-02-01 03:29:23'
  - author:
      name: tom cox
    body: Has your ID printing problem been resolved?  I have the same one, I think,
      and am looking for a solution.
    created: '2007-04-10 02:12:20'
  created: '2006-12-31 22:39:11'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>what i\u2019d like to know is: will CS3 eat even more system performance,
    like it has been the case with the CS2 applications compared to CS1?</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm
    guessing that it will use more RAM and take longer to load because of new fonts
    and plugins but I doubt that CPU requirements would go up any any existing areas
    of the software. Given that one of the big Illustrator CS3 goals is a performance
    overhaul and that Photoshop CS3 performance is astoundingly faster in many areas
    it seems likely that Indesign will get some tweaking. That said, I wouldn't be
    surprised if the tweaking revolves around multithreading exploiting the new x86
    chips, so get ready to upgrade.\r\n\r\nOn the upside, replacing a machine is a
    lot less expensive now that the Macbook and Mac mini are so fast and so cheap.
    Sure they suck if you need to do cool 3D stuff, but if all your design is 2D,
    a $750 Mac mini will run circles around last year's $3000 G5 machines."
  created: '2006-12-31 23:26:13'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>On the upside, replacing a machine is a lot less expensive now that the
    Macbook and Mac mini are so fast and so cheap. </em>\r\n\r\nAin't that the truth?
    \ The first Mac I bought was a B/W toaster SE20, came bundled with a 2400 baud
    modem and cost me $3,000: the second came bundled with a 15\" colour monitor and
    cost, about $2,500; the last one is the last of the G3 graphite iMacs and cost
    $2,000.\r\n\r\nWhen I upgrade next, I'd be happy to blow $1,500....  ;-)"
  created: '2007-01-01 17:12:35'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: A mac mini will NOT run circles around a Tower. Sorry. Seen it in action.
    Mac mini is still poorer performance that iMac g5 with same specs. Screen redraw
    blows on new iMac as well.
  created: '2007-01-01 18:12:11'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "As a side note, although InDesign CS2 may need more RAM than CS1, its performance
    is faster. I could be mistaken, but it's my understanding that every major release
    of InDesign has been faster than the one before it. The InDesign team pays a *lot*
    of attention to performance.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-01-02 04:53:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "CS2 is less buggy than CS1 too--I hope the trend continues into CS3.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-02 14:59:53'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'CS2 certainly was a huge improvement on my old granny G4 Single. '
  created: '2007-01-02 18:02:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Adobe said it\u2019s an HP problem; HP said it\u2019s an Adobe problem.\"\r\n\r\nNow
    that is such a big surprise :-)\r\n\r\nActually, HP uses their own flavor PostScript
    interpreter instead of paying Adobe to use theirs. My money is on Adobe being
    correct in matching their own apps with their own PostScript. HP is johnny-come-lately
    to the PostScript party.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: the design goddess
      picture: 112187
    body: "And I had a tech support dude give me attitude when I voiced frustration
      over being on the phone with HP and Adobe tech supports for four hours to be
      told that I should save Illustrator files as PDsF and print from Acrobat.\r\n\r\nI
      should have saved the $30 HP printer that didn't have PostScript issues despite
      its poor print quality!\r\n\r\nThanks for the advice; I'm going to brave the
      unintelligible operators at HP to see how tech support respond to this."
    created: '2007-02-02 00:06:54'
  created: '2007-02-01 03:42:36'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I'd try resolving it by returning it to the store. I haven't seen an HP product
    that was worth half its sale price in at least a decade, do yourself a favor and
    just stay away from that awful company and its awful hardware and software.
  children:
  - author:
      name: the design goddess
      picture: 112187
    body: What's a good printer to get that's under $200 and can fit in a small place?
      I don't mind it being inkjet just as long as the black type looks good.
    created: '2007-02-02 01:08:58'
  created: '2007-02-02 00:12:56'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Arggh I'm realizing I\"m gonna have to get both Quark 7 and CS 3 - all of
    a sudden my clients are trending towards Quark. So I'm flippety flopping btw both
    softwares and getting mighty confused with the key commands but clearly I need
    both.\r\n\r\nDesign goddess - don't get an Epson they SUCK."
  created: '2007-02-02 02:47:17'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Really?  I quite like my Epson SPR300, and just yesterday bought a Brother
    MFC 240C for a friend.\r\n\r\nThe Epson ink management thing stinks, but so long
    as the manager keeps a good eye, it's not that bad...."
  created: '2007-02-02 03:56:32'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Unless you're dedicated to printing every day - or every few days - they're
    a disaster. I print somewhat sporadically and never know what I'm gonna get. I'll
    never buy another one.
  created: '2007-02-02 04:09:47'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I probably print often enough, although I'm not enamoured with their \"oops,
    your cartridge is empty\" thing in the middle of a job.\r\n\r\nThat being said,
    I got it cheap -- the cost of ink is way more than the price of the printer!"
  created: '2007-02-02 04:12:20'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: 'Tom, this thread is now two months gone since the last post; it''s all but
    done. If you want an answer to your InDesign printing problem I''d advise you
    to post it as a fresh discussion. '
  created: '2007-04-10 02:34:12'
date: '2006-12-15 16:47:55'
node_type: forum
title: 'Conundrum: Use InDesign CS2 or Quark 6?'

---
