---
author:
  name: missgiggles
  picture: 111889
body: Did the Egyptian [[slab serif]] in the late 19th century take inspiration after
  the discovery of Tutankhamen's tomb by Howard Carter? but wasn't that in 1922 though?
  so how was it possible?
comments:
- author:
    name: Manlio Napoli
    picture: 111362
  body: "\"The first square-serif type to be introduced was the Antique of London's
    Vincent Figgins Foundry, turning up in the 1817 catalogue of that firm in four
    sizes [...].\r\nThe provenance as much as the use of the term <em>Egyptian</em>
    is obscure. Most authorities agree that it was the coincidence of the emergence
    of the square-serif types with the popular interest in Egypt following the Napoleonic
    conquest [...] that gave the design its name.\"\r\nAlexander Lawson, <em>Anatomy
    of a typeface</em> (pp. 308-311)\r\n\r\nI was reading that just yesterday"
  created: '2006-12-18 13:03:31'
- author:
    name: claaspb
    picture: 111377
  body: "Now, I have no ides if this is true... but the story my boss told one day
    was that Napoleon wrote some sort of a text (might have even been a book) about
    his fights after he had conquered Egypt. This piece of writing was supposedly
    set in the one of the first slab-serifs ever \u2013 hence they became known as
    egyptiennes. "
  created: '2006-12-18 13:11:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The word Egyptian also has a gnarly sequence of descenders.\r\nThe first
    word I use to check out the appearance of descenders, when I'm designing a new
    font, any style, is always \"Egyptian\".\r\n\r\nThere can be no doubt that Egypt
    fascinated Western Europeans at the beginning of the 19th century. Check out Shelley's
    poem \"Ozymandias\"."
  created: '2006-12-20 07:58:05'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: The term Egyptian arises from coincidental connection. Napoleon did a big
    PR tour that wound through Egypt where his archaeological team picked up and deciphered
    the Rosetta stone, which lead to a huge boom in Egyptology. At the time Egyptology
    was funded primarily via tomb robbing, so Britain was overwhelmed with looted
    Egyptian artifacts, sort of like Banshees albums in the 1980s. Slab serifs came
    and went along with the trend of propping a mummy up in the corner of one's dining
    room; and so the two are inextricably linked.
  created: '2006-12-20 08:16:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The inspiration for the form of the Egyptian style is generally believed
    to be the boom and emergence of commercial \"job\" printing that began around
    1800. Previously, most type was for books. But type for handbills and fly posters
    had to make a powerful impact. This from 1835.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Flyposting_3951.jpg]"
  created: '2006-12-20 18:34:43'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: Marvelous image, Nick! Thanks for (er) posting it.
  created: '2006-12-20 19:21:07'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "missgiggles\r\n\r\nThe answer to your question is no."
  created: '2006-12-21 07:56:48'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: I found out that in a publication of the treasures found in Egypt by Napoleon
    in 1798 was written in slab serif and so its name originated from there.
  created: '2006-12-21 21:47:30'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I found out that in a publication of the treasures found in Egypt by
    Napoleon in 1798 was written in slab serif and so its name originated from there.</cite>\r\n\r\nMind
    naming your source? It sounds worth reading."
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: "www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slab_serif\r\n\r\nNot much info on it though."
    created: '2006-12-22 16:01:11'
  created: '2006-12-21 22:18:28'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<em>I found out that in a publication of the treasures found in Egypt by
    Napoleon in 1798 was written in slab serif and so its name originated from there.</em>\r\n\r\nSince
    serif didn't become part of the English language until 30-odd years after Napoleon's
    invasion of Egypt was it referring to Egyptienne? But that is an interesting piece
    of research, let us know about it.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-12-22 12:05:09'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I think you are referring to <em>Description de L'Egypte</em> \r\nhttp://2terres.hautesavoie.net/degypte/texte/descrip0.html\r\n\r\nOr
    <em>La D\xE9cade \xE9gyptienne, journal litt\xE9raire  et d'\xE9conomie politique</em>\r\nhttp://2terres.hautesavoie.net/cegypte/texte/caegysa2.html\r\n\r\nbtw
    there is an exhibition, until the end of the year, in New York\r\nhttp://www.daheshmuseum.org/collection/exhibitions/index.html#current\r\n\r\nTim\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-22 12:35:54'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "And it's a Wikipedia entry with no citations... now that's a useless source
    if I ever saw one.\r\n\r\nI double-checked in <em>Typographic Design,</em> <em>Stop
    Stealing Sheep,</em> <em>A Type Primer,</em> and <em>ETS 3.0</em> and there isn't
    a single mention of the idea that the name comes from the publications about Napoleon's
    journeys. \r\n\r\nGoogle books has a scan of <a href=\"http://books.google.com/books?vid=OCLC25353829&id=Np0LAAAAIAAJ&pg=PA1&lpg=PA1&dq=Description+de+L%E2%80%99Egypte#PPA1,M1\">Description
    de L\u2019Egypte</a> and it is most certainly not printed with a slab face. <em>Typographic
    Design</em> presents the idea of a connection between popular type and Egypt mania,
    and since Meggs is one of the writers, I'm sticking with that one. \r\n\r\nEdit:
    The version on Google books is from 1845, the original was 1809. This still negates
    the story, as slabs appeared in 1815. I'll be at the Library of Congress next
    week and double check the 1809 edition, assuming that they have one.\r\n\r\nNow
    I have a Wikipedia entry to fix..."
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: "'Now I have a Wikipedia entry to fix\u2026' I  bet there are lots of them
      to fix and then i get told off on here for asking silly questions. Huh :("
    created: '2006-12-23 14:13:11'
  created: '2006-12-22 17:54:31'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "I have a finnish book that cites another one saying that the name comes from
    Napoleon\u2019s war in Egypt.  The original book is <em>Graafisen tyylin perusteet</em>
    by Olof Eriksson (1974). The name translates \u201CThe Principles of Graphical
    Style\u201D."
  created: '2006-12-22 18:41:04'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I don't think that is the same book, it should have illustrations or descriptions
    of them throughout (and mention Napoleon, although the second edition is dedicated
    to the king).\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/descrip1_6455.jpg]\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-12-22 19:03:24'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I have a finnish book that cites another one saying that the name comes
    from Napoleon\u2019s war in Egypt.</cite>\r\n\r\nDoes it cite Napoleon's campaign
    as inspiring the name because it caused the Egyptian mania, or does it specifically
    cite <em>Description de L\u2019Egypte</em>? <em>Graafisen tyylin perusteet</em><a
    href=\"http://worldcat.org/wcpa/oclc/9761429\"> is in the Library of Congress
    as well as the Helsinki University library</a>, but there's no hope of me deciphering
    Finnish, are you interested in looking it up? Maybe we can put all this together
    into a short paper on the etymology\u2014and misconceptions thereof\u2014of the
    name Egyptian.\r\n\r\nI think that the only thing that can really prove the Napoleon
    link is if the 1809 edition of <em>Description de L\u2019Egypte</em> is in fact
    printed with slab type and someone can find a reputable original source. I've
    located the book in the Library of Congress, it's too late to go today, I'll go
    check tomorrow. \r\n\r\nI can't believe I've turned into such a type nerd. But
    I have to spend my month-long Christmas break doing <em>something</em>."
  created: '2006-12-22 19:36:16'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Although <em>Description de L\u2019Egypte</em> sounds like the correct book,
    it is not certain that the original wikipedia article was referring to it, it
    is also in several volumes, not all from 1809*, some date from 1822.\r\nTim\r\n\r\n*wikipedia
    states that the volumes indicated as 1809 were printed in 1810\r\n\r\n{edit: Not
    that I want to discourage any research}"
  created: '2006-12-22 20:24:10'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I'll have to see what I can come across. Hopefully the LOC keeps them together
    (I doubt that I can just call these up like I do other stuff in the rare books
    section) and I can look over the set. Since Wikipedia mentions that it was exhibited
    at Georgetown I can see if they actually have a set, and I'm sure that the National
    Geographic Society will have at least some of them around.\r\n\r\nI'm also tryierng
    to think of someone else to pose the question to. In Typology Heller writes that
    the faces are linked to the post-Napoleon fad, but no more detail is given. I'll
    try contacting him about the subject. "
  created: '2006-12-22 21:47:06'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "<cite>Graafisen tyylin perusteet is in the Library of Congress as well as
    the Helsinki University library, but there\u2019s no hope of me deciphering Finnish,
    are you interested in looking it up?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe library of the University
    of Art and Design Helsinki has the book too, I\u2019ll go check tomorrow.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-22 22:12:45'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Okay, maybe not. They\u2019re closed till January 2nd."
  created: '2006-12-22 22:26:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Why slab?\r\n\r\nSlabs serif faces were more often referred to as \"Antique\"
    in type specimens of the early 19th century.\r\n\r\nThe first sans serif type
    was published in a Caslon specimen of 1816 (there are no extant examples of it
    in use), and named \"Egyptian\".\r\n\r\nIn applying the term \"Egyptian\" to a
    sans serif, at first, there may have been the association with something ancient
    and primitive -- this is James Mosley's thesis for the cultural space the sans
    came from, as told in \"The Nymph and the Grot\".\r\n\r\nUpdike (Printing Types,
    Volume II), mentions in an anecdotal footnote that in a \"London Jest Book\" of
    1806 (unfortunately, an internet-quality reference...) there is a joke about an
    Irishman's reaction to a \"Fashionable Egyptian Sign Board\". There is no way
    of knowing wheher the lettering thereon, in which the \"thin strokes were as thick
    as the thick strokes\" was a sans or slab. Anyway, the signpainters were ahead
    of the typefounders.\r\n\r\nUpdike conjectured that there was some racial correspondence
    between the dark weight of the style and the Egyptian term, however, this was
    probably the influence on him of a later 19th century concept, encapsulated in
    the term from the title of the explorer Stanley's book \"The Dark Continent\",
    dark meaning undiscovered, unilluminated by civilization, and with dark-skinned
    inhabitants. However, even then this racist premise was often understood to refer
    to sub-Saharan Africa, not Egypt and the northern Arab territories.\r\n\r\nThere
    were in fact quite a few Egyptians in Paris in Napoleon's day -- they were Mamelukes,
    a caucasian ethnic group, originally abducted to Egypt as slaves, but who had
    become its rulers. Many of them, male citizens of the Ottoman Empire, made their
    way to France with the returning French army, and subsequently formed a divsion
    in Napoleon's army, featuring prominently in military parades, their exotic uniforms
    creating a fashion craze. Girodet, a leading painter of the time, was fascinated
    by the Orient and had several of them living in his house -- he did a series of
    portraits of them, and used his guests to populate his large painting \"The Revolt
    of Cairo\". So in France at least, the Egyptian phenomenon was all about the exotic
    novelty of the Orient. And French fashions quickly crossed the Channel to London.
    \r\n\r\nSo I'm sticking with the theory that while there may be several contributing
    factors to the Egyptian name, really it's just something that was trendy at the
    time, taken up by type founders because it looks cool in print (to typophiles)
    -- the only word with three different consecutive letters with lower-case descenders.
    Eventually, it settled on the slab-serif genre.\r\n\r\nBear in mind that, as Alastair
    Johnston explained in \"Alphabets to Order\", the people responsible for 19th
    century specimen books were dada poets. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-22 23:07:09'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "\"Bear in mind that, as Alastair Johnston explained in \u201CAlphabets to
    Order\u201D, the people responsible for 19th century specimen books were dada
    poets.\"\r\n\r\nFor God's sakes. Well, at least you inadvertently pointed to where
    you stole the image from.\r\n\r\nBy the way, printers' ink balls.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-12-23 07:34:34'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "The trouble with Wikipedia is that it is not, and maybe never will be, a
    definitive encyclopedia and it is always worth finding another source to confirm
    it, being aware that one will often find that it is copied in several other sites,
    normally obvious because it is almost word for word. I would always take anything
    you find on the internet with a pinch of salt until you can confirm it from an
    alternative source.\r\nOn the other hand you have sparked some interesting discussion
    and investigation and have made an early New Year's resolution so hopefully you
    will be more welcome on the forums.\r\nTim"
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: Thanks Tim, I sure hope so! :)
    created: '2006-12-24 15:47:10'
  created: '2006-12-23 16:40:19'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "James, you\u2019ve been quite a type nerd the last couple of days. You think
    it\u2019s contagious?\r\n\r\nNick, Nymph and Grot, huh?\r\n\r\n<cite>Eventually,
    it settled on the slab-serif genre.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think slab serif is the english
    name (yes, Watson). In finnish they\u2019re known as \u2018egyptienne\u2019. What
    I mean is, slab serif and egyptian are synonyms, or what were you trying to say,
    Nick?"
  created: '2006-12-23 21:11:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>For God\u2019s sakes. Well, at least you inadvertently pointed to where
    you stole the image from.</em>\r\n\r\nActually, I first came across it in another
    book, \"London, A Great City\" published by the Folio Society. Is scanning an
    image from a book and posting it on a web forum considered theft? I suppose I
    should have asked the Alfred Dunhill Museum for permission to reproduce their
    painting, but in reproducing low-res scans to illustrate a point in an online
    thread, I don't think people usually go to that length, so I'm just following
    general practice. Or do you think one should do better?\r\n\r\n<em>By the way,
    printers\u2019 ink balls.</em>\r\n\r\nGosh.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of Mr Johnston's book,
    I came across this quote in it, from Richard Austin's \"Address to Printers\",
    1819, concerning the problems with the ultra fine details of modern type, \"Besides
    this, in the drawing of the letters, the true shape and beauty are lost; and instead
    of consisting of circles, and arcs of circles, so agreeable to the eye, some of
    them have more the appearance of Egyptian characters than good roman letter.\"\r\n\r\nWhere
    did type founders of Austin's day get their knowledge of what an Egyptian character
    looked like? I would guess from Edmund Fry's \"Pantographia\", published in 1799
    if I recall correctly, which attempted to show all the alphabets used by all languages
    around the world. So I wonder what the page(s) on Egyptian type look like in Fry's
    book?\r\n\r\n<em>slab serif and egyptian are synonyms,</em>\r\n\r\nThat's always
    beeen my understanding. I named my slab-serif take on Bodoni \"Egyptian\" partly
    for that reason, as well as others, but most logically because the serifs don't
    look at all like slabs in the Light and Thin weights.\r\n\r\nBut for encompassing
    a variety of typefaces, rather than weights, \"Slab\" is more practical, which
    is no doubt why the FontBook uses it as a category, to include many hefty-serifed
    faces (eg for news text) that are not at all \"Egyptian\".\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-23 21:53:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>James, you\u2019ve been quite a type nerd the last couple of days.
    You think it\u2019s contagious?</cite>\r\n\r\nI've been a nerd a lot longer than
    the last couple of days. It's just that lately I've gone from other sorts of nerdness
    to being a type nerd. Unfortunately my nerdiness today has been limited to reading
    Leslie Cabarga's book, as I arrived at the Library of Congress only to find that
    the reading rooms are closed on weekends! \r\n\r\nAnyway, Mr. Heller suggested
    that I contact Matthew Carter; if someone has Mr. Carter's email address would
    you please message it to me?"
  created: '2006-12-24 00:49:09'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Matthew Carter has responded. According to James Mosley in <em>The Nymph
    and the Grot</em> (Available from St. Bride) the term Egyptian was originally
    used for sans-serif faces; I think that this pretty much kills the theory that
    it resulted from use in Napoleonic texts as no typesetter would have used sans
    type for a serious book (if any book) at that time. \r\n\r\nUnfortunately the
    closest copy of <em>The Nymph and the Grot</em> is in Baltimore, so I'll just
    order copy and wait for it to arrive. "
  created: '2006-12-24 14:40:56'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'Missgiggles, if you really want to make friends with us, head to St. Bride
    in London over the holidays and see what <em>The Nymph and the Grot</em> has to
    say on this subject :) '
  created: '2006-12-24 18:16:56'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I''ve just received an e-mail from James Mosley and he is going to join us.
    What a treat. He said the information found within ''Nymph & the Grot'' itself
    needs updating. '
  created: '2007-01-07 16:49:45'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "I\u2019m not sure I can follow that without blushing. In any case I have
    been reading Typophile Forum to learn, rather than to offer my opinions. (I do
    enough of that in my job.) But it\u2019s true that having seen a recommendation
    that people should go out and get hold of The Nymph and the Grot (1999) I thought,
    first of all, that the book may not be so easy to get hold of (but don\u2019t
    let me put anyone off buying it \u2013 sales help the St Bride Library). Secondly,
    that some interesting things about early sanserifs (or Egyptians) and slab-serifs
    were found after it was published \u2013 many of them by Justin Howes. If he had
    not died so shockingly suddenly a couple of years ago he might have contributed
    to this thread. Should have, for sure.\r\n\r\nSo I thought of doing so myself,
    and signed up \u2013 but then my piece got far too long to post, so I put it under
    the heading \u2018The Nymph and the Grot, an update\u2019 on the Typefoundry blog
    (http://typefoundry.blogspot.com/). That is where to find it, along with some
    other miscellaneous things. It won\u2019t be the last word on the topic (I hope),
    but may answer some questions.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-08 12:32:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Welcome James! Delighted that you are willing to share some of your deep
    knowledge of type history here. \r\n\r\nLet me add that as well as your scholarship,
    I also find your opinions on type--such as your mention of the 'rather plain'
    character of Univers in your blog--quite interesting. \r\n\r\nTo me educated tastes,
    borne of long study, are very interesting, in spite of the fact that they will
    still differ greatly from one person to another. "
  created: '2007-01-08 13:52:09'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: "Wow \u2013 I think we can feel really privileged to have you on this thread,
    James! Thanks a lot for the link to your blog.\r\n\r\nI am very happy to hear
    that Justin Howe\u2019s research did not get lost with his untimely death. He
    was supposed to give a talk at the St Bride conference in 2004 about his research,
    but he was ill that day. A few weeks before his death, when he was still curator
    at the Type Museum in London, I visited the Type Museum. In the generous manner
    that was typical of him, he gave me a short presentation about the talk he wanted
    to give at St Bride \u2013 essentially the same information that you published
    now on your blog. Of course, in my stupidity, I didn\u2019t write anything down,
    and when he died, I already thought this information was lost forever. Justin
    had also prepared some new illustrations for his talk which he showed me on his
    power book. I hope, one day you can publish these illustrations as well, in memory
    of Justin\u2026\r\n\r\nHere are some pictures of the type specimen and the matrices
    of Caslon Egyptian, taken by Justin. The type specimen and the matrices are at
    the Type Museum. If we compare the printed letters with the matrices, the newly
    added characters (described in the article on James Mosley\u2019s blog) can be
    seen clearly.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_2734_5082.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_2740_3915.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_2750_4086.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_2751_6555.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_2746_4979.jpg]"
  created: '2007-01-08 16:49:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks for the update, James.\r\n\r\nCaslon's \"Egyptian\", it must be assumed,
    is not then an experiment that merely chops the serifs off a slab-serif style
    -- which seems to be the consensus in the general type histories -- it is a mature
    design, derived from many decades of development by architects, sign painters,
    cartographers and stone masons. Tombstones are another, clearly dated, source
    of 18th century sans lettering.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-08 17:11:43'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "\"Caslon\u2019s \u201CEgyptian\u201D, it must be assumed, is not then an
    experiment that merely chops the serifs off a slab-serif style\" \r\n\r\nNo \u2013
    that was the bright idea of the type historian A. F. Johnson, who dated the Figgins
    slab-serif 1815 (which is on the title page of the specimen) and the Caslon sanserif
    1816. Therefore... But it helps to get outside the typefoundry and to look around
    a bit.\r\n\r\nOne of my favourite images is this one (which I put in the original
    Nymph & Grot), published in 1808, a project for a vast pyramid outside Portsmouth,
    the Royal Navy base, to commemorate Nelson at Trafalgar and Stuart at Maida (no,
    I had never heard of him either \u2013 but there is Maida Vale in London as well
    as Trafalgar Square). The pyramid makes an Egyptian connection, but the lettering
    was described as 'the earliest form of Roman character'. \r\n\r\nI'm sorry this
    one never got built \u2013 but there are plenty of other examples of sanserifs
    before 1816, ususally conveying some idea of an early and 'primitive' form. Not
    unrelated to Tschichold's idea of the Grotesk as pure and basic, in some ways.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Wood
    - Pyramid_4860.jpg]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Maxim Zhukov
      picture: 110611
    body: "<ul><li><em>there are plenty of other examples of sanserifs before 1816,
      ususally conveying some idea of an early and \u2018primitive\u2019 form.</em></li></ul>\r\nHere
      is one curious example, dated 1799, from a monument to Field-Marshal Rumyantsev-Zadunaisky
      in St. Petersburg. I don't think its style conveys an idea of an early and primitive
      form. Of course, this is not a real sans-serif, but it is not a serif either.
      And look at that super-tight letterspacing. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2001_SPb_Rumiantsev_Monument_1799_D_6663.jpg]"
    created: '2007-01-21 03:34:49'
  created: '2007-01-09 10:06:57'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: I'm sorry about that image, which shows a hazy grasp of technology. Will this
    be any better, I wonder?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Wood - Pyramid - 2_3431.jpg]
  created: '2007-01-09 10:35:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'James, if you resize your pictures in Photoshop to 600 pixels wide, keeping
    the proportions, then they will fit into the Typophile column. '
  created: '2007-01-09 16:05:33'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "What a wonderful typophile-thread! Thank you all.\r\n\r\nThomas\r\n\r\nPS\r\nJames,
    you can download a 600px wide pict in png-Format <a href=\"http://www.luftzentrale.de/tmp/_600px.png\">\u2013here\u2013</a>,
    if you want to update your posting."
  created: '2007-01-09 17:25:27'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "James, I've resaved it for you.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Wood_Pyramid_2_3431_5571.gif]"
  created: '2007-01-09 17:29:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/felbrig_4866.jpg]\r\nAlso in Norfolk,
    Felbrigg Hall, with a Jacobean sans serif in the balustrade.\r\nGLORIA DEO IN
    EXCELSIS\r\n(Photo \xA9Rupert Truman, NTPL)\r\n\r\nFunctionalism trumps allusion."
  created: '2007-01-09 19:04:54'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "Thank you, all of you, for getting me out of the technological hole I had
    dug myself into.\r\n\r\nThat splendid architectural example from Felbrigg is a
    nice reminder that sanserifs come and go at all times in all kinds of media."
  created: '2007-01-10 08:49:12'
- author:
    name: James Clough
  body: Paradoxically, We really do get an idea of the size of the pyramid that was
    never constructed! James M's technical error turns out to be beneficial. I'm new
    to this game but it looks like fun! And you all seem to be so informed and learned.
  created: '2007-01-10 09:38:06'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: I am happy to have sparked up the Egyptian slab serif, thanks to my massive
    essay i did on serifs! *rolling eyes*. But it's nice to know you are learning
    new things everyday because a professional is never a professional as they learn
    someting new themselves everyday :D
  created: '2007-01-18 23:58:18'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: ">But it\u2019s nice to know you are learning new things everyday\r\n\r\nQuite
    right -- That's why I signed up to Typophile Forum. I'm learning all the time.
    And shedding some cherished prejudices."
  created: '2007-01-19 07:03:02'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: That's a fine inscription, Maxim. My knowledge of Russian letterforms is minimal,
    but is it possible that these dense, narrow and hardly-seriffed letters are a
    slight echo of the old pre-Peter letters? In other words, a bit of national sentiment?
    (Or they might just relate to the narrow German roman caps that were often used.)
  children:
  - author:
      name: Maxim Zhukov
      picture: 110611
    body: "Triangular terminals in the <strong>\u0426</strong>, <strong>\u0411</strong>,
      Yat', <strong>\u0414</strong>, and the <strong>\u042A</strong> certainly feel
      archaic (see a sample of the <em>ustav</em> style below), but the <strong>M</strong>
      with is raised vertex, and, of course, the showy <strong>\u0423</strong> look
      very much [post-]Petrine.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1720_Kniga_Ustav_Morskoi_5386.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1056-7_Ostromir_Gospel_(Lazursky)_A_4074.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1764_Robinson_Crusoe1_6513.jpg]\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-01-21 15:57:37'
  created: '2007-01-21 08:20:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That plaque doesn't look right. Surely its architect would have done a better
    job of configuring the plaque to accomodate the general's name.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    the monument was originally created for someone with a shorter name. (The fortunes
    of war...)\r\n\r\nAnother reason that the plaque looks like a revision is the
    naive quality of the lettering (note the \"flipped\" stress of De and A), compared
    to the sophistication of the other metalwork.\r\n\r\nHowever, even if the plaque
    is later than the monument, it would be difficult to date without some form of
    historical documentation (such as a photo or engraving of the monument which showed
    the plaque).\r\n\r\nAt least it's not <a href=\"http://typefoundry.blogspot.com\">Trajan
    or Bembo.</a> \r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: James Clough
    body: "When I first read this excellent discussion on Egyptian types I seem to
      remember an image of a lottery bill (or similar item) with wood engraved Egyptian
      letters which seems to have disappeared. Was this the first printed appearance
      of Egyptians? Was the date 1810? And what has happened to this rather important
      image? Perhaps it was in another discussion area... Can anyone help?\r\n"
    created: '2007-01-25 20:54:34'
  created: '2007-01-21 21:14:30'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "James, you should be studying my update. This is what Justin Howes found
    in the British Library \u2013 somewhere. It is indeed a wood engraving, not type.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Swift
    slab-serif 1810 1 a 600_4468.jpg]"
  created: '2007-01-26 08:09:23'
- author:
    name: James Clough
  body: "\r\nThankyou very much James. So the lottery bill was on your blog and never
    was a part of this discussion. Is that correct? Obviously apart from the blog
    (for which I have boundless admiration) this image greatly enriches the present
    discussion. And what a charming and highly interesting piece of ephemeral printing
    it is too. Look at the pound sign (like some of the pre-euro Italian Lira signs).
    I've never seen a lottery bill in two colours either. Justin really was quite
    a sleuth to have unearthed it. "
  created: '2007-01-26 08:51:35'
- author:
    name: fritz
  body: "Ok, my post comes some 2 years too late but I would like to add a comment
    and a source to this thread:\r\n\r\n\u2014 my source is Alan Bartram: The English
    lettering tradition from 1700 to present day. Lund Humphries Publishers Ltd.,
    London 1986\r\n\r\n\u2014 Egyptomania: in the time right before Egyptomania, there
    had been a very strong Greece-o-mania, regularly refered to as Philhellenism.
    This movement, it seems, was quite influencial among British intellectuals. Quotes
    from page 12:\r\n\r\n\u201C By the early nineteenth century, commerce and industry
    required more agggressive letterforms. At the same time architects, aided by the
    intelligentsia, developed theories about primitive and elemental simplicity, such
    as (they believed) the currently fashionable Greek idiom displayed. Thus was developed
    the idea of a simple, more rational (and therefore more \u201CGreek\u201D) form:
    what we now call the grotesque, that is, a letterform, often monoline in colour,
    with no serifs. Egyptians, as has been said earlier, are grotesques with serifs.
    That such letterforms are more suitable for architecture is indisputable. But,
    besides beeing more architectural, they could take on forms which were far more
    aggressive than the civilised and refined english letter. So a letterform dreamt
    up to solve an intellectual and archaeological postulation was seized upon by
    signwriters and, soon, printers, to perform deeds quite beyond, in fact almost
    contradictory, to its civilised progenitors\u2019 ideas. \u201D\r\n\r\n\r\n\u201CThe
    classical revival was soon reflected in the work of architects. By 1789 Sir John
    Soane was using a carefully drawn sans-serif letter in his drawings, both as titling
    and also on occasion as an inscription on the building itself. About the same
    time, sans-serif lettering began to appear on sculptural monuments. By 1806, rude
    remarks were beeing made about the current shop boards displaying \u201Acommon
    characters deprived of all beauty and all proportion by having all the strokes
    of equal thickness\u2018. The grotesque (and, probably a little later, the egyptian)
    had arrrived in town.\u201D\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2014 I would like to add that there might
    have also been some more direct inspiration by original, ancient greek inscriptions
    that show capital letter-forms without serifs. Also the early Roman inscriptions
    (lapis niger) where not yet serifed. And finally greek inscriptions could have
    also been found in Egypt, as it belonged to the greek world from Alexanders conquest
    to the Roman take-over and later again for some time under byzantine rule. But
    the latter is mere speculation.\r\n\r\n\u2014 As far as the slab-serifed forms
    are concerned, I\u2019d like to add that the principle of emphasising the Serifs
    already showed up in the ornate flowerish Caps forms of copperplate engraving.
    There is a huge unresearched field here. In the 17th and 18th centuries, lots
    of phantasy-enhanced forms evolved that later got translated to printing type
    (Pierre Simon Fournier probably beeing the first). Engravers were the earliest
    advertisers (so-called enseignes-adresses, handbills for businesses) and their
    models were largely copied by early letter painters, who then modified these forms
    for public space application (less sophisticated in construction and detail, but
    poignant in shape and often enhanced in visibility by application of 3-d effects
    or colouring).\r\n\r\nIn my oppinion, most of the early 19th century type designs
    must be seen as the attempt of book printers to get their share in the booming
    market for printed advertising. Therefore they copied the engravers\u2019 and
    letterpainters\u2019 forms that had long been arround outside the type world.
    \r\n\r\nI agree with James Mosley that we urgently need to leave the specimen
    books and get a larger view of letter forms beyond type itself."
  created: '2009-05-11 02:10:34'
- author:
    name: fritz
  body: I forgot ! Thank you so much, Mr Mosley for your post on your blog ! I had
    to stop from time to time because I was too excited to read on.
  created: '2009-05-11 02:19:45'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: '{just writing so i can track this and read through later}'
  created: '2009-05-11 02:24:29'
- author:
    name: fritz
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Croix_dOr_6321.jpg]\r\n\r\nThis picture
    shows a 18th century sign from Paris that I took at Mus\xE9e Carnavalet in Paris
    in 2005. It is registered in the catalogue: Enseignes du Mus\xE9e Carnavalet \u2013
    Histoire de Paris, Jean Pierre Willesme/Paris mus\xE9e, 1995, page 57.\r\n\r\nIt
    could be an evidence that the sans was also in French streets before it showed
    up in type specimen books. On the other hand, the picture in the catalogue shows
    a whole different design in a black and and white photograph. So it still needs
    to be clarified if this sign had been altered by restaurators or alike."
  created: '2009-05-11 16:16:34'
date: '2006-12-18 12:33:58'
node_type: forum
title: Egyptian slab serif

---
