---
author:
  name: missgiggles
  picture: 111889
body: "Anyone know it? I think it was to do with the fact that it was the first time
  that type was printed not only for ........ needs but specifically for social purposes
  for people. SOmething like that. Any ideas? Thanks.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: missgiggles, I think you need to hunker down and do some serious research,
    i.e., getting yourself to a bricks and mortar library, looking up proper books,
    tracking down specialized literature with actual bibliography that will hopefully
    make you curious to look up even more books, and so on. Go to the source, i.e.,
    actual books by or about William Morris, or whoever you need to study, before
    coming here and asking questions like this one.
  created: '2006-12-18 15:38:07'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "\u2014"
  created: '2006-12-18 15:53:49'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: Ahhhh. Edited. I'm learning to control myself.
  created: '2006-12-18 16:08:28'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Yeah, ok, I edited too. But it felt good to vent for a minute...\r\n\r\nSeriously,
    Missgiggles, the wise minds on this site have taken the time to answer your many
    many questions very thoughtfully. In the interest of mutual respect, it might
    be a good idea for you to take seriously the frequent suggestions that you spend
    some time in a library, do some real research, and try to organize your ideas
    before coming here with all these questions. \r\n\r\nAnd, if you want/expect to
    be taken seriously, working on your spelling and grammar would help..."
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: whatever Pattyfab and Lore. Do whatever you want. it doesn't bother me.
    created: '2006-12-18 16:18:52'
  created: '2006-12-18 16:15:03'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Pat: my first message started with \"Seriously Miss Giggles\" too!\r\nMiss
    Giggles: \r\nIn my first (edited) post I was suggesting Nicholaus Pevsner and
    that you try to learn History BEFORE you approach type history (it makes a lot
    more sense to me). There is no need to be offended because people are trying to
    show you a more logical way to approach research. As Pat says, it's a question
    of respect. Everyone here is trying to keep the level high in the interest of
    the community. Even those that do not come from the UK like yourself are making
    an effort to check spelling/grammar before they post and also they post with their
    real name and surname, which is also a sign of trust and respect. \r\nThe reason
    I changed my mind is because you are too bloody stubborn, girl. "
  created: '2006-12-18 16:50:04'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: It's no giggling matter. It's actually quite depressing.
  created: '2006-12-18 17:17:05'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>whatever Pattyfab and Lore. Do whatever you want. it doesn\u2019t bother
    me.</em>\r\n\r\nMiss Giggles, I think most people on Typophile deserve a pat on
    the back for being as patient as they have been. The bottom line for me is, if
    you don't think its important to organize your thoughts, capitalize words, and
    spell correctly you are <em>disrespecting</em> people who give their time and
    effort to <strong>you</strong>. \r\n\r\nYour comment above makes you come off
    as a spoiled child, and in general you have been very disrespectful in both the
    way you ask questions and in the way you respond to them.\r\n\r\nI <strong>implore</strong>
    the community of Typophile to ignore Miss Giggles' posts until she starts showing
    the people of this community the respect they deserve."
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: "Sorry but i really don't understand what i have done. Probably the age
      gap is doing the demons here. and in regards to the 'whatever Pattyfab and Lore.
      Do whatever you want. it doesn\u2019t bother me.' Well, they have both been
      nasty to me on my other postsfor some time and so has Linda Cunningha. It has
      really upset me so i had to say something to them once and for all. Can a girl
      not even let some air out of her hair if people disrespect her? I do respect
      them but how they have treated me shows that if they can't treat me well, then
      why should i bother treating them well? It's simple enough isn't it? They don't
      want to give me respect, then why should i give them respect? Why do i respect
      everyone else except them 3? because they have been nasty to me on many of my
      posts before."
    created: '2006-12-19 01:06:40'
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: "PS i forgot to mention the fact that what Pattyfab and Lore had written
      before was not what's there now. They have edited it so since then, people are
      getting the wrong menaing of my 'whatever Pattyfab and Lore. Do whatever you
      want. it doesn\u2019t bother me.' It is because  they have added the actual
      details later on that people think i have commented on. Just getting it straight
      with all you ladies and gents out there. It's not what you think it is and btw
      i am not a spolied child and niether am i disrespectful. It's people like the
      above mentioned people that gets me going because tehy have done something to
      provoke it."
    created: '2006-12-19 01:11:56'
  created: '2006-12-18 18:35:26'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "LOL!! Folks, come and spend a day in class with me sometime ; ) Er, on second
    thoughts, you might want to be shown a bit more respect...\r\n\r\nMissG, I suggest
    you try googling <strong>Emery Walker</strong> instead."
  created: '2006-12-18 22:31:22'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: You're wasting your time, Terry....
  created: '2006-12-18 22:47:18'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: I know, I know...but a boy can dream, can't he? ;)
  created: '2006-12-18 23:54:55'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: There are dreams, and then there is <em>le cauchemar</em>.  ;-)
  created: '2006-12-19 00:41:37'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<strong>Do unto others...</strong>\r\n\r\nIt's simple. This is a site for
    those who like to talk about type and typography without having other peoples
    eyes roll back into their heads. I can post the most arcane question about type
    here and somebody other than me will be interested in the conversation.\r\n\r\nIt
    is a great resource for those looking to understand the deeper things of type
    and typography, and to point people in the right directions when looking for answers.\r\n\r\nThat
    being said, while many of the people involved in the discussions on Typophile
    might be educators, many are not. Most have spent years learning their craft,
    whether it be on the job or at school. Most have worked very hard to gain the
    knowledge and understanding that they have.\r\n\r\nSome might feel a bit, shall
    we say <cite>used</cite>, when someone who obviously cares enough about type to
    even be here won't take the time to properly frame their questions using standard
    grammatical customs such as punctuation and proper case. Some others might feel
    that although there are no stupid questions, there <cite>are</cite> lazy ones.\r\n\r\nAs
    students, we have an obligation to respect the time and attention our teachers
    give us. Especially when they provide it for free. And as students, we have an
    obligation to apply the things we learn, even to things like questions posted
    to an online forum.\r\n\r\nNo one here WANTS to get into a Flame war. Although
    entertaining in their own way, they do not lend themselves to a discussion about
    the deeper things of type and typography.\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-19 01:33:17'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'Well put, Dan. And Giggle''s questions have led to some very provocative
    and interesting discussions which is the reason I revisit them from time to time.
    I am amazed at some of the information my fellow typophiles seem to have at the
    ready. '
  created: '2006-12-19 04:52:16'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "missgiggles, it is a sign of disrespect to everyone here when you do not
    say why you are asking something. Are you a student? Have you been assigned to
    write on a certain aspect of type or design history? If so, what is the subject?
    It would be helpful, to say the least. Your questions tend to be vague. And confusing!
    More disrespect, both for the people here, their patience, and their time. Is
    the Typophile community here to attend your every whim? After seeing a few of
    your posts, one starts to feel that you have a lazy man's (woman's?) attitude
    towards learning -- that is, it seems as if you want to let others do your \"learning\"
    for you. If that is the case, then you are mainly cheating yourself. Do your homework
    before typing up the first question that comes to mind. <em>Then</em> come here,
    if you still have doubts. I guarantee you will get better results, and discussions
    we can all benefit from, even enjoy.\r\n\r\n<em>Probably the age gap is doing
    the demons here.</em>\r\n\r\nOh, really? What do you know about people's ages?
    And are you younger or older than the people you mention?\r\n\r\n<em>There are
    dreams, and then there is</em> le cauchemar.\r\n\r\nHey, Linda, thanks for teaching
    me a new word!  :-)"
  created: '2006-12-19 05:43:50'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: My fellow typophiles. You don't have to answer. I think it's great that you
    do. But if want to move on & not attend to the vague questions Miss Giggles posts
    here you really can. If you choose to respond then you can only complain just
    so much I think. And Miss Giggles - you really might dig a bit before posting.
    It will serve you far better than you can guess - and extend your welcome here
    to boot.
  created: '2006-12-19 07:52:29'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "\u2014"
  created: '2006-12-19 10:47:32'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Miss Giggles,\r\n\r\nFor some reason I think what is on your mind came from
    this thread:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/17322 when Thierry Blancpain wanted
    to know if a certain quote about the Industrial Revolution and typography was
    correct."
  created: '2006-12-19 11:32:34'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: 'Miss Cauchemar, don''t put me in this position because I don''t deserve it.
    I have NOT been disrespectful to you. In fact I think I only participated to two
    of the threads you started and once it was only because hrant made this joke about
    the Renuisance man and I can''t thank him (and you) enough for that because I
    still laugh out loud when I think about it. Unforgettable. And then I  wanted
    to help you and suggest Nicholaus Pevsner but then I changed my mind. Last thing
    I remember is that I was receiving offensive messages from you calling me bully,
    which illustrates incredibly well what typophile represents to you: a playground.'
  created: '2006-12-19 11:37:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "tHats th sTaNdard of edyucayshun and manners here in theuK. your al lucKY
    she not ritin in txt! Y bother bein polite.\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2006-12-19 13:01:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">i really don\u2019t understand what i have done\r\n\r\nMiss G, I think you
    would be making a serious mistake to attribute the annoyance simply to other peoples'
    personalities, and dismiss the possibility that you are doing something to provoke
    it. \r\n\r\nYou are getting the same reaction from people world wide--that should
    tell you something!\r\n\r\nYou have been told repeatedly that this particular
    community is irritated by your not bothering to use caps, and by not proofing
    your posts at all for typos. What part of that don't you understand? Why do you
    persist in posting as above, with all the 'i's lower case?\r\n\r\nAlso many evidently
    feel that you are asking them to do your homework. They want to see evidence that
    you have made an honest effort at research first--eg by referring to and quoting
    the sources you have consulted.\r\n\r\nYour curiousity and effort are very commendable.
    Push forward, but do learn--and not only about type. "
  created: '2006-12-19 13:57:34'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>Your questions tend to be vague. And confusing!</cite> \r\n\r\nand
    repetitive. It seemed as though when you didn't get the answer you were looking
    for you just rephrased the question and asked it again, rather than considering
    whether you were asking the right question.\r\n\r\nBut I think my comments (and
    I'm sorry if they veered into flame category, I tried not to... as the mature
    one) were mostly focused on spelling, punctuation, and grammar. We're a bunch
    of type-heads here, we notice these things!"
  created: '2006-12-19 15:35:48'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Ricardo writes:\r\n\r\n<em>There are dreams, and then there is </em>le cauchemar.\r\n\r\nHey,
    Linda, thanks for teaching me a new word! :-)\r\n\r\n;-)  I learned it from \"Murder
    on the Orient Express.\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-19 16:18:03'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "missgiggles, check out:\r\n<a href=\"http://listserv.cddc.vt.edu/marxists/cd/cd1/Library/archive/morris/works/index.htm\">this
    archive</a>\r\nand\r\n<a href=\"http://listserv.cddc.vt.edu/marxists/cd/cd1/Library/archive/morris/works/1893/printing.htm\">this
    item</a>\r\nand tell us what you find.\r\n\r\nWhat you are looking for might also
    be in one of the other texts about the industrial revolution or art and society."
  created: '2006-12-19 16:35:51'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "i am not familiar with miss giggles' history, but i am reading with interest
    the sincere and pained comments regarding her lack of capitalization.\r\n\r\ni
    am well-educated and fairly competent with respect to grammar, and i prefer to
    write in all lowercase. indeed, i'm certain some of you must be aware of herbert
    bayer, a teacher at the bauhaus, who said:\r\n\r\n\"why should we write and print
    in two alphabets? both a large sign and a small sign are not necessary to identify
    a single sound. we do not speak in a capital a and a small a. a single alphabet
    gives us practically the same result as the mixture of upper and lower case letters,
    and at the same time is less of a burden on all who write.\" --herbert bayer from
    bauhaus 1919-1928\r\n\r\nthis concept has motivated the design of various new
    single-case alphabets as well.\r\n\r\napologies if both A) that was completely
    obvious, and B) the forums require only the most conventionally proper grammar
    and punctuation regardless.\r\n\r\njarrod"
  created: '2006-12-19 20:53:00'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "http://www.type.nu/bayer/univer.html\r\n\r\nneat-o.\r\n\r\n=)"
  created: '2006-12-19 20:56:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Jarrod, this particular idea of Bayer was never taken up widely. Or to put
    it another way, it was almost universally rejected. People evidently find caps
    at the beginning of sentences a helpful marker. That is the answer to Bayer's
    question, and it is a very good answer, IMHO.  \r\n\r\nIn any case, our eyes are
    trained to expect the the caps at the beginning of sentences, the word 'I' to
    be capitalized, etc., so that not having them is a distraction to the reader.
    You are making a decision to tax the reader by using all lc. \r\n\r\nI can see
    a point to dropping UC in instant messages, as the rush to get out the text is
    then paramount. \r\n\r\nBut generally it is novices who think that Bayer had a
    great idea. (Students regularly come on typophile typing this way, but generally
    stop or stop posting.) In my view and the view of publishers generally, it's a
    bad idea. "
  created: '2006-12-19 21:08:46'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: Funny, when I think of someone in all lower case -- two thoughts come to mind.
    One is a Susan Hayward movie - where she played "rae" a wannabe clothing designer
    that succeeded -- but ended up in a tragic love affair. The other is e.e. cummings
    - a little rebellious shall we say?
  created: '2006-12-19 21:20:52'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Wise people admit their mistakes easily. They know progress accelerates when
    they do.\r\n\r\nDaniel John Gayle, could you please elaborate the thought <em>\u201Cwhile
    many of the people involved in the discussions on Typophile might be educators,
    many are not.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nErik Spiekermann has been teaching me a lot just
    with a few spoken words in NYC, I realized it was because of a mistake I did,
    this also led me to write this little <a href=\"http://homes.ieu.edu.tr/~asegalini/learning.html\">page</a>
    for my students.\r\n\r\nI really think you can only learn from a mistake after
    you admit you\u2019ve made it. As soon as you start blaming other people (or environment)
    you distance yourself from any possible lesson. But if you courageously stand
    up and honestly say \u201CThis is my mistake and I am responsible\u201D the possibilities
    for learning will move towards you. Admission of a mistake, even if only privately
    to yourself, makes learning possible by moving the focus away from blame assignment
    and towards understanding. \r\n\r\nJohn Downer also kindly gave me a great piece
    of advice, and I have other people in Italy as well, my parents included, they
    actually don\u2019t know what design is, but it happens in daily life that they
    do something good and positive for society. And sometimes a smile is enough.\r\n\r\nThese
    advices run counter to the cultural assumptions we have about mistakes and failure
    being shameful things. We\u2019re taught in school (ah, my memory), in our families
    (not my case), or at work to feel guilty about failure and to do whatever we can
    to avoid mistakes. This sense of shame combined with the inevitability of setbacks
    when attempting difficult things explains why many people give up on their goals
    : they\u2019re not prepared for the mistakes and failures they\u2019ll face on
    their way to what they want.\r\n\r\nWhat\u2019s missing in many people\u2019s
    beliefs about success (yes, not \u201Cfame\u201D) is the fact that the more challenging
    the goal, the more frequent and difficult setbacks will be. The larger your ambitions,
    the more dependent you will be on your ability to overcome and learn from your
    mistakes.\r\n\r\nBut for many reasons admitting mistakes is difficult, and the
    fact that our work represents us is an implied value in many cultures.\r\n\r\nFor
    anyone than never discovers a deeper self-identity, based not on lack of mistakes
    but on courage, compassionate intelligence, commitment and creativity, life is
    a scary place made safe only by never getting into trouble, never breaking rules
    and never taking the risks that their hearts tell them they need to take.\r\nLearning
    from mistakes requires three things : putting yourself in situations where you
    can make interesting mistakes ; having the self-confidence to admit to them ;
    being courageous about making changes.\r\n\r\nMerry Christmas and Happy New Year,\r\n\r\nAlessandro
    Segalini"
  created: '2006-12-19 21:51:56'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>Daniel John Gayle, could you please elaborate the thought \u201Cwhile
    many of the people involved in the discussions on Typophile might be educators,
    many are not.\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nI only meant that some are teachers by profession.
    Others are designers, etc. Some, like many artists, dabble in both. \r\n\r\nNot
    everyone has the patience and stamina to deal with questions from students. Not
    even all teachers are good at it. (I should know, because I tend to ask questions
    that put teachers on the spot. A very annoying habit, if you're a teacher who
    doesn't actually know what you're talking about...)\r\n\r\nBut that's the point,
    if a student takes responsibility and poses a well thought out, properly framed
    question, then the onus is on the teacher. You gotta knock the teacher back onto
    their heels and keep them off balance, or else you'll never learn. If you slack
    and give them an \"out\" by asking a poor question that they can brush off, then
    you've lost and have wasted your breath.\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Solipsism
    body: "\"I tend to ask questions that put teachers on the spot. A very annoying
      habit, if you\u2019re a teacher who doesn\u2019t actually know what you\u2019re
      talking about\u2026)\"\r\n\r\nI am pretty honest and will say I don't know.
      \r\n\r\nOr I turn the question into extra credit. \r\n\r\n:-P"
    created: '2006-12-21 18:28:49'
  created: '2006-12-19 23:04:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The issue of spelling, and use of lower case are of minimal concern to me
    in this situation. Of more concern to me is tactics in learning and self-teaching.
    I think if we are asked by a student, \"What is 2 plus 2, and we answer 4, we
    have done a disservice. It would be more enlightening to explain the concept of
    addition and allow the student to come back with their own answer, even if it
    is wrong. In the first case, by saying 4, you have taught the student that the
    process for adding 2 numbers involves asking someone to give them the answer.
    In the second case, we are teaching them how to find an answer for themselves.
    We old farts will eventually die off and leave the next generation with nobody
    to ask :-)\r\nI don't know if this kind of asking for \"the answer\" is an indication
    of education in the present or just a small example of a few of our youth today.
    Perhaps we need more of the Socratic method and less \"Ask Jeeves\" in our modern
    World?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-19 23:23:36'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "^ My sentiments exactly. \r\n\r\nI think google and wikipedia has destroyed
    the wonder and the beautiful process of learning for the next generation of students
    born with joysticks in their hands, drawing with bars of soap (commonly called
    the mouse). \r\n\r\nI sense a general laziness and lack of interest when it comes
    to research. It seems that people now like to be told about things, as opposed
    to experiencing them directly. \r\n\r\nIn the wider discussion, I'd even argue
    that we now live in the age of documentarians in the basest usage of the word,
    masquerading as artists and thinkers with their endless blogs and photo galleries,
    but I'll hold my tongue from releasing any more poison."
  created: '2006-12-20 01:52:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"but I\u2019ll hold my tongue\"\r\n\r\nGiven your last name, that may be
    a problem :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-20 02:31:49'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"Given your last name, that may be a problem :-)\"\r\n\r\nGiven his user
    name, it shouldn't be an issue."
  created: '2006-12-20 03:05:37'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>i am not familiar with miss giggles\u2019 history</em>...\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/user/14600/track"
  created: '2006-12-20 06:07:39'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Hmm. I think, speak and hear in both cases. Sentence casing, titling, all
    lowercase, mixed casing and all caps all sound different in my mind. Am I alone?
    Does anyone here ever \"speak/think\" in small caps?\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-12-20 07:14:25'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite<I think google and wikipedia has destroyed the wonder and the beautiful
    process of learning for the next generation of students born with joysticks in
    their hands, drawing with bars of soap (commonly called the mouse).</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    agree with you in part; I think that young people often simply ask questions instead
    of looking for answers, not entirely out of laziness or desire for instant gratification,
    but because right now can be an odd, challenging time to do research. When I was
    in grade school, I learned to use card catalogs. Middle school coincided with
    user-friendly electronic catalogs, along with magazine searches and access to
    the internet in the form of Usenet, Gopher, and IRC. High school brought along
    electronic encyclopedias, newspaper searches, and  (the first time) I went to
    college the web started to be worthwhile. That's a hell of a lot to absorb, it
    still confuses the hell out of me, and younger college students (I'm 28) did not
    have the luxury of picking the technologies up one at a time like I did.\r\n\r\nIn
    my opinion, all these different sources of information have yet to congeal into
    anything that most people find especially useful. There's so much information
    to find that it can be overwhelming. The only people who seem to cope well are
    nerds (myself included) and researchers with assistants and bottomless Lexis-Nexis
    accounts. Until some of this stuff settles out, and we have new generations of
    computer-savvy teachers and librarians to go along with it, research will be an
    oddball thing for kids unsure how to make any sense of the options."
  created: '2006-12-20 07:58:24'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Ricardo, this is even more representative of MissGiggles I think.\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/30128\r\n\r\nHonestly,
    that was a disgrace. People here doing their best to follow her train of thoughts
    and look how it all ends. That's sad. \r\n\r\nIronic that I always hated the hostility
    and the patronising tone towards students but I must say, Giggles is a very different
    case. New members asking weird/bad formulated questions it's a thing (I know something
    about it!). There's no need to humiliate people in public. Repeating the same
    mistakes over and over and over, <cite>now</cite> that's different. \r\n\r\n<cite>tHats
    th sTaNdard of edyucayshun and manners here in theuK. </cite>\r\nYou think this
    is a British phenomena? You wish! \r\n\r\n<cite>Does anyone here ever \u201Cspeak/think\u201D
    in small caps?</cite>\r\nNot only that but when I speak/think in Portuguese I
    have to stop to put all the little accents everywhere and it's such a drag ; )\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-20 12:34:20'
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: "Ok, you are all clear now. Let\u2019s stop about this now and enjoy they
    days before Christmas!\r\n\r\nPieter"
  created: '2006-12-20 12:38:21'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>I have to stop to put all the little accents everywhere and it\u2019s
    such a drag</em>\r\n\r\nHeh. Accents; the emoticons of the literate world.\r\n\r\n<em>In
    my opinion, all these different sources of information have yet to congeal into
    anything that most people find especially useful.</em>\r\n\r\nI have to say, I'm
    precisely that age where the two worldviews collide. When I cannot find something
    after a sincere search online, I sometimes wonder, \"Does it even exist?\" \"Or
    is it that unimportant that we haven't archived it?\" Things like a misremembered
    TV episode title, or a snip of trivia. \r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-12-20 17:57:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Imagine what it was like several years ago when you had to physically go
    to a library and look it up? Most \"trivia\" were not even available unless you
    had an \"Uncle Bob\" who remembered all the old TV or Radio shows. Today, you
    can find most things quite quickly. You even have the luxury of being disappointed
    if you can't find it right away. In decades past, you just did without.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "<em>...In decades past, you just did without.</em>\r\n\r\nIt sounds so
      desolate.\r\n\r\nImagine what it was like before a global community of students,
      leading professionals, hacks, enthusiasts, and the merely curious could congregate
      to one place to exchange tips, history and philosophy in one industry. And now
      imagine that times every industry or endeavor ever. The times, they have changed.
      I look back and try to imagine what it must have been like for those a full
      generation before myself, and it seems sad at times. I understand there was
      a serenity and a calm in the  slower-paced world, away from emails and microwaves,
      but interaction with the voice and memory of the entire world (or, a growing
      percent of it each day) is one of the few things I really adore about *right
      now*. That and mp3s.\r\n\r\nI suppose some future generation may say the same
      thing about our quaint little lifespans and suffering from disease and superstition.\r\n\r\n<A
      HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine
      Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
    created: '2006-12-20 18:39:14'
  created: '2006-12-20 18:17:39'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "I think James Puckett and I came up around the same era, on the cusp of some
    new technologies. I'm almost 29 and our era is old enough to remember old technologies
    (the REAL card catalog complete with REAL CARDS!!!) but young enough to embrace
    new ones. Its funny when I talk to my girlfriend (who is only a few years younger)
    because internet wasn't really up and running for me until I was a sophomore in
    college\u2014 she mentions having it in high school.\r\n\r\nI got my bachelor's
    degree in 2000 (in TV/Film), just missing the digital video revolution. Then I
    was shooting on Super8 and 16mm film, nowadays anyone with a handheld can post
    on You Tube. When I graduated, digital video wasn't remotely affordable or considered
    viable for the mainstream. Didn't take long for that to change. It was only 2001
    when I started carrying a cell phone. Hell, Chris still doesn't even turn his
    on. ;)\r\n\r\nThis is a new generation folks. We're in an era where people can
    literally do nothing and skate by. I think the design field (including type design)
    needs to start taking notice of people who don't come from wealth, went to a top
    notch school, or studied under a rockstar...or we're going to continue to spawn
    a legion of Paris Hiltons. Where are the underdogs? Where are the rags to riches
    stories?\r\n\r\n<em>Hmmmm, then somewhere in my notes or books i have in front
    of me but it definately said that.</em>\r\n\r\nLorenza, funny you linked to that
    thread because the statement above is where I officially lost it. I understand
    everyone's desire to help, but by responding to Miss Giggle's threads you are
    only <strong>encouraging laziness</strong>."
  created: '2006-12-20 18:47:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Choz, fact is, when it comes to history, there's no substitute for dealing
    with original artefacts. And vast areas of the past have yet to be \"digitized\".
    \r\n\r\nAll you have to do is pick up a publication from the mid 20th century
    and google though it. Most company names will draw a blank. So how can you find
    out anything online about their advertising, or the art directors or illustrators?\r\n\r\nAnd
    as for digitization, well, there was the debacle of microfiche. \r\nWhat will
    scans tell us about letterpress?\r\nOctavo's CD of Bodoni's Manuale doesn't have
    anywhere near enough resolution.\r\n\r\nThe first comprehensive history of graphic
    design was Meggs, 20 years ago. His modernist perspective is being questioned.
    Helen Mazur Thomson (The Origins of Graphic Design in America) has a quite different
    view. In type history, the bible (Updike, 1920s) doesn't show a single sans serif
    typeface (which we are so interested in the origins of, today) -- despite their
    having been in use for 100 years by then. No wonder Ms Giggles is confused --
    the questions she is being asked, like about serifs on Carolignian scripts --
    would make good PhD theses. You could read dozens of books before you come up
    with an answer as succint as Peter's. And she's supposed to put all this 500 years
    of Western history, technology, and culture together and make sense of it, and
    it's a sidebar to a practical design course? \r\n\r\nThere is a lot to be said
    for Miss Giggles \"legally blonde hive mind\" methodology. Getting your information
    from books is a narrow and passive way of inhaling the dominant narrative, why
    not ask the experts directly and see what the current POV is? It's a different
    awareness, and oh the serendipity.\r\n\r\n<em>future generation</em>\r\n\r\nLet's
    hope we're smart enough."
  created: '2006-12-20 19:06:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"It sounds so desolate.\"\r\n\r\nIt wasn't really any more than today, it
    was just different. You couldn't get information out of a yet-to-be-invented electronic
    box, so you went and visited real living people and had long talks. You made things
    with your own hands instead of downloading something. When you left work, you
    just were gone and there was no Blackberry to fetch you back at any moment of
    the day or night. I am not saying it was better or worse, it was just different.
    As Terry says, my cell phone stays off 99% of the time not because I am against
    cell phones, I just don't need to be \"reachable\" 24/7 anymore now than 20 years
    ago. Solitude can be a cleansing thing sometimes.  Seeing people face-to-face
    is a cherished experience too--far better than Blackberry-barrage bondage.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-20 19:27:00'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Seeing people face-to-face is a cherished experience too\u2014far better
    than Blackberry-barrage bondage.</em>\r\nOh my God, yes. Preach! :)"
  created: '2006-12-20 19:34:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Getting your information from books is a narrow and passive way of inhaling
    the dominant narrative, why not ask the experts directly and see what the current
    POV is? It\u2019s a different awareness, and oh the serendipity.\r\n\r\nIt's not
    a question of either-or, but both-and. Use the internet, use libraries, talk to
    librarians, go to book stores, talk to experts in the field, talk to other researchers,
    look at original artifacts. If you are serious about research in a subject you
    do all of them. I certainly have done all of these for my work on Caslon, and
    I think I learned something essential from each of them. And Nick, I'm sure you're
    doing all of them as well for your historical writing. \r\n\r\nIf you want 'information
    nuggets', the internet is fabulous. If you want 'knowledge' in the sense of understanding
    of a subject you have to go to print and talk to people. For example, the best
    single book on typography, Bringhurst's, is not on line. So you have to go to
    print--and of course it's a lot nicer to read on paper as well. \r\n\r\nLet me
    repeat how great a resource librarians are. They are not the resource people think
    of for research, but they can be amazingly helpful--especially those associated
    with specialized libraries and fields. I am very grateful to James Mosley, former
    librarian at St. Brides, and Larry Oppenberg, who organized the Linotype library
    at the Museum of Printing. For me, they held the keys to the kingdom.  "
  created: '2006-12-20 19:44:45'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite>Lorenza, funny you linked to that thread because the statement above
    is where I officially lost it</cite>\r\nNo! it's not funny, it's tragic! Her last
    sentence in that thread was exactly where I officially lost it too! And also where
    I began to understand the concerns of this community. Btw: I'm very impressed
    by this community's ability to change direction to a thread and turn it into a
    productive discussion. \r\n\r\n<cite>And she\u2019s supposed to put all this 500
    years of Western history, technology, and culture together and make sense of it,
    and it\u2019s a sidebar to a practical design course?\r\n</cite>\r\nBut we don't
    know what she's doing with the information, is that part of her course? Which
    course? Where? Which level? Who's teaching her? And why isn't she getting assistance?
    What are her cultural references?  \r\n\r\nI had to work with a girl at University
    once and she gave me a piece of info for our assignment, I asked her to give me
    the reference and she told me: www.google.com. I was almost in tears. Another
    girl, instead of writing \"bibliography\" at the end of her essay simply wrote:
    \"Books I took from the library\" (at least she didn't write liberry). The same
    girl went maaaaaad when the lecturer told her that she was supposed to read them
    too, not just take them off the shelves and she went immediately to the Head of
    the Department's office to complain that the lecturer had been rude to her. \r\nThat
    was in the UK. But can you honestly say it's different in other countries? And
    Is she really English anyway? Is she really a young girl? Is she really blonde?
    \r\nCheck her profile. There's not much in there. "
  created: '2006-12-20 22:04:58'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Hear hear, Lore. And also, if I might add, when someone <strong>chooses</strong>
    a <em>nom de screen</em> like "missgiggles", can you really blame people for sometimes
    thinking that s/he's just <a href="http://typophile.com/node/29637" target="_blank">"pulling
    our tits"</a>?
  created: '2006-12-21 00:15:53'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I hate to do this, but you guys gotta lay off. It's quickly becoming, no
    <cite>became</cite>, a personal attack on someone who doesn't deserve the level
    of detail into which you are delving.\r\n\r\nIt is simply enough to tell her that
    her posts are considered by some to be either juvenile or poorly written, then
    letting it go. Ignore her posts if you choose, but don't stoop to digging into
    her profile to dig up things to complain about. I thought you were big boys.\r\n\r\nI'm
    afraid that now she won't be interested in discussions here at all because of
    the vehemence of your attacks, and that is NOT acceptable. She is a good girl,
    and at least she's interested. This is not an elitist old boys club, so don't
    treat it like one.\r\n\r\nYes, her posts could use refinements. But clear the
    rafter out of your own eye before continuing this discussion."
  created: '2006-12-21 00:31:21'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Happy holidays everybody. I'm with Dan, let's close this thread down. I think
    we've scared giggles off anyway, which I don't think was exactly the intention.
    Gigs, if you're still reading, I suggest instead of stamping your foot, try to
    consider some of the more thoughtful, less flame-y comments here and consider
    coming back with fewer, better researched, and better written questions. I bet
    that if you do you'll receive a much warmer response - from me at least.\r\n\r\nAnd
    please... no more hissy fits ;-P"
  created: '2006-12-21 00:51:23'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Seeing people face-to-face is a cherished experience too\u2014far better
    than Blackberry-barrage bondage.</cite>\r\n\r\nTotally. Maybe I should have you
    and Biddy over for dinner. "
  created: '2006-12-21 03:16:47'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "missgiggles\r\n\r\nWilliam Morris loved the Industrial Revolution and embraced
    it with open arms especially because, as you surmise, the type had social purposes
    for people rather than for other things. I think the quote you are looking for
    is on the wiki for dummies (sp?). A great site by the way."
  created: '2006-12-21 07:46:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Gerald, you sure know a lot about type, for a mycologist.
  created: '2006-12-21 16:36:03'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "With win-win-win, we all win. Me too.\r\n\u2013 Michael Scott\r\n\r\nThere's
    your famous quote for the day :)"
  created: '2006-12-21 19:58:39'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: "Thanks for all the back-stabbing, especially Lore. How I'm loving ever bit!
    It feels too good to be true and by the way Lore, your websites needs a major
    revamp and for the person who has been 'digging' in to my profile, well well well.
    Why would you want to do that for. Remember YOUR life is precious. Every minute
    and second. Why would you want to waste it on 'digging' into someones profile
    who isn't worth it or should i say 'worth it' because you wouldn't bother otherwise.
    Nasty comments don't hurt me. There's been worse things in my life like nearly
    dying at age 17 than silly comments from silly, immature adults who act worse
    than little kids. What's the world coming to? I wonder what's next.\r\nPattyfab:
    I don't get scared that easily. I'm born a fighter. Once a fighter, always a fighter
    and if i fought myself off an illness that nearly ended my life, then this is
    nothing. It doesn't scare me at all. Actually it's making me a stronger person.\r\n\r\nPS
    To all the people who have advised me on using proper grammer, I shall from now
    on. I  take your advise on board and do my best. NOTE: Wrong spelling may be due
    to dyslexia. I will try my best.\r\nPPS. DON'T use my threads to back stab, whether
    it be me or anyone else! If you want to let out steam, go somewhere else BUT my
    threads. Thankyou."
  children:
  - author:
      name: WeAreLoa
      picture: 128775
    body: "Keep digging that hole missgiggles. \r\n\r\nIf you're truly the \"fighter\"
      you claim to be, take some of the wonderful advice given here, and fight for
      your mind and education. \r\n\r\nCome here with respect, and look for engagement
      and discussion, not hand-outs."
    created: '2006-12-21 22:05:37'
  created: '2006-12-21 21:42:43'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "As much as I'd love to continue to debate the internet's affect on the industry
    of type culture, can this thread be sealed off by a mod? Ms. has had her rebuttal,
    and Dan had the right idea.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-12-21 22:15:55'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: No Choz. Why should it be shut down? So people don't see all the bad things
    going on Typophile? I think it should be left where it is. Let others see who
    the bad people are like in a school class. we can keep it as THE WALL OF SHAME.
    Shame on you people (who are back stabbers and gossip about others) for setting
    a great example to the world of who and what you are really like. This thread
    will NAME and SHAME you.
  created: '2006-12-21 22:30:18'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "As more than one person has said in one way or other:\r\n\r\n<em>Don't go
    away mad, just go away.</em>"
  created: '2006-12-22 00:58:10'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "In the most neutral air, because it has become a static recycling of thoughts.
    No movement, only momentum. I am done here, and look forward to seeing what everyone
    in this thread has to say on other topics. Have a happy Festivus, everyone.\r\n\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-12-22 01:10:16'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Wow. Your Honor, the defense rests. Have a Happy New Year everyone.
  created: '2006-12-22 03:08:53'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Nick\r\n\r\nYeah, it's a comforting hobby. So unorganic.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-12-22 08:29:10'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "A witchhunt, conducted from ivory towers.\r\n\r\nFor some, poor grammar evidently
    warrants a descent into simple bullying."
  created: '2006-12-22 08:57:13'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: '''poor grammar evidently warrants a descent into simple bullying''. So sad
    yet so true. Get a life. The world would definately be a better place without
    bullies.'
  created: '2006-12-22 15:51:52'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "Also:\r\n\r\n\"To bully\": to make one's way aggressively.\r\n\r\nPlease
    stop bullying your way into this forum. You are unwelcome not because of who you
    are or what you ask, but because of your insistence (and pride) on disrespecting
    the conventions of this forum. \r\n\r\nHow can you expect polite treatment, if
    you can't abide by the norms of this forum?"
  created: '2006-12-22 16:45:06'
date: '2006-12-18 15:29:34'
node_type: forum
title: Famous William Morris quote on the effects of Industrial Revolution on typography

---
