---
author:
  name: Manlio Napoli
  picture: 111362
body: "Few months ago I moved from Italy to Bosnia-Herzegovina and, since I could
  carry with myself only few design books and a Bible, I ended up reading Bringhurst
  and the Four Gospels from dawn till dusk.\r\nNow I'm going to spend Christmas holidays
  in Italy so I can take some other book from my library and buy new ones. My suitcase
  isn't huge and I won't be back in Italy again before next summer so I must select
  carefully.\r\nWhat would you choose?"
comments:
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Without a doubt, Underworld by Don Delillo, I feel a strange kind of regret
    everytime I go to a bookshop and see it on the shelf because I've read it and
    own it and have no need to buy it.\r\n\r\nDostovesky's Crime and Punishment, possibly
    the greatest novel ever written, the writing is so good and immersive the divide
    between Raskolnikov's life and mine began to blur a little as i read it. I've
    heard the Borthers Karamoazov is as good if not better.\r\n\r\nContinuing the
    Biblical theme Pilgrim's progress by John Bunyan,  Screwtape letters by CS Lewis
    for two very different, entertaining, helpful and wise takes on what it is to
    live as a Christian."
  created: '2006-12-20 00:46:28'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Quite interesting, Manlio, good luck.\r\nI\u2019d choose <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/reader/0374474133/ref=sib_dp_pt/102-0332197-6838542#reader-link\"><em>Tales
    From Moominvalley</em></a> and other Moomin stories published by <a href=\"http://www.salani.it/ce_eng.html\">Salani</a>."
  created: '2006-12-20 00:55:23'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: "<em>The Wind-up Bird Chronicles</em> by Haruki Murakami\r\n<em>Fury</em>
    by Salman Rushdie\r\n<em>Perfume</em> by Patrick S\xFCskind\r\n<em>Foucault\u2019s
    Pendulum</em> by Umberto Eco\r\n\r\nAny issues of <em>[[Dot Dot Dot]]</em> or
    <em>[[Emigre]]</em>."
  created: '2006-12-20 01:07:45'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Nothing to do with design or type at all! \r\n\r\nMaybe a case of wine instead.\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2006-12-20 02:49:52'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I couldn't get thru Underworld! I vastly preferred his Mao II. Loved The
    Wind-Up Bird Chronicles.\r\n\r\nManlio, can't you order books from Amazon to tide
    you over til next summer?\r\n\r\nAnyway, if not, go for long books! I'd take Possession
    by A.S. Byatt, A Suitable Boy by Vikram Seth, U.S.A. by John Dos Passos, Moby
    Dick."
  created: '2006-12-20 03:08:39'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "And for an oldie but goodie, Cervantes' <em>Don Quixote</em>.\r\n\r\nOr a
    collected Shakespeare."
  created: '2006-12-20 03:11:56'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> What would you choose?\r\n\r\nThe DVD: Mediterraneo (1991, Directed by
    Gabriele Salvatores)\r\n\r\n\r\n\t"
  created: '2006-12-20 03:15:02'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Or Six Feet Under, all 5 seasons.
  created: '2006-12-20 03:19:44'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Or all three seasons of Little Britain.
  created: '2006-12-20 03:20:40'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Read <em>House of Leaves</em> by Mark Danielewski. It's a great example of
    stories-within-stories, American gothic horror, hardcore erotica, erudite writing,
    and it's got great typography set by the author, with words that go forward, backward,
    into shapes, etc. Literary critics describe it with respectful comparisons to
    Nabokov and Borges; Poynor included it in <em>Graphic Design and Postmodernism</em>.
    And getting funny looks when you have to keep rotating a book when you're on a
    plane is always great.\r\n\r\nIf you want to read something tremendously fun,
    contemporary and erudite without delving into the design world, read <em>World
    War Z</em> by Max Brooks. On the surface it looks like a kitschy zombie book,
    but it's just as engrossing as Harry Potter, and far more intelligent."
  created: '2006-12-20 05:17:36'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Pattyfab,\r\nyou got through USA but not through Underworld! Kudos i guess,
    I really liked Manhattan Transfer but I imagine I would probably need to organise
    some leave, or actually get stuck on a desert island to navigate USA. Haven't
    read Mao II but can't wait, loved Libra the 'ficitional' biography of Lee Harvey
    Oswald.\r\n\r\nAdditionally I'd recommend New York Trilogy and pretty much anything
    else by Paul Auster, off-kilter self-reflexive clue-puzzle whodunnits (sounds
    cerebral, is fun)."
  created: '2006-12-20 05:48:14'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: 'I''m reading a great book by Max Frisch, called <em>I''m Not Stiller</em>
    in the English translation but simply <em>Stiller</em> in the original German.
    I am only halfway through it, but I highly recommend it. I also liked two of Peter
    Carey''s books, <em>True History of the Kelly Gang</em> and <em>My Life as a Fake</em>.
    One last suggestion: <em>The Archivist</em>, by Martha Cooley.'
  created: '2006-12-20 06:15:38'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>The Ultimate Hitchhiker's Guide</cite> by Douglas Adams \u2013 No matter
    how many times you read Adams, it's still squirt-milk-out-of-your-nose funny.\r\n\r\n<cite>Musashi</cite>
    by Eiji Yoshikawa \u2013 The greatest and influential tale of Musashi Miyomoto,
    the Sword Saint, greatest samurai to ever live. Dozens of Japanese movies have
    been based on this novel, with Samurai I actually winning the Academy Award. This
    book is the best epic I have ever read.\r\n\r\n<cite>The Complete Poems of Edgar
    Allen Poe</cite> \u2013 For when you're alone at night :{"
  created: '2006-12-20 07:20:47'
- author:
    name: Manlio Napoli
    picture: 111362
  body: "Thanks everybody for your suggestions.\r\n\r\nNicholas, Patricia:\r\nI heard
    about Delillo but still didn't read anything by him, is him comparable to Thomas
    Pynchon? I was enticed by <em>Gravity's Rainbow</em> but couldn't read it cover
    to cover although I tried more than once (I got lost somewhere).\r\nDostoevsky
    and Melville will be in the list 100%.\r\n\r\nAlessandro:\r\nThanks for good luck
    wishes, actually it's going better than what I expected.\r\n\r\nKris:\r\nLOL!
    Herzegovian wine is pretty fine too. I complain just about the coffee.\r\n\r\nPatricia:\r\nAmazon
    doesn't sell Italian books and unfortunately I don't speak English well enough
    to read novels smoothly. At a local bookstore I found <em>Black Lamb and Grey
    Falcon</em> by Rebecca West (a must read about ex-Yugoslavia) but I stop at every
    sentence to counsult the dictionary.\r\nAnyway I'll use Amazon for design books."
  created: '2006-12-20 09:45:48'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.amazon.co.uk/Master-Margarita-Penguin-Modern-Classics/dp/0141187794/sr=1-1/qid=1166611226/ref=sr_1_1/026-1105165-7952435?ie=UTF8&s=books\">The
    Master and Margarita</a>, by Mikhail Bulgakov\r\n<a href=\"http://www.amazon.co.uk/Baghdad-Burning-Girl-Blog-Iraq/dp/0714531308/sr=1-1/qid=1166611431/ref=sr_1_1/026-1105165-7952435?ie=UTF8&s=books\">Baghdad
    Burning</a>, by \u2018Riverbend\u2019, based on the blog, currently dramatised
    on BBC radio\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-12-20 11:23:53'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Manilo,\r\n\r\nYeah you could compare Delillo to pynchon, perhaps in intent
    more in style; I think both are interested to capture and comment on American
    consumer culture/hyper-capitalism in all its manifestations, (especially Underworld
    and White noise) Delillo is much less scatty/absurd then pynchon, much more formal
    and dramatic, I've only read Vineland so that's what I'm going off. I own gravity's
    rainbow and have managed a total of about 6 pages; I know Patty would disagree,
    but I found Delillo much more accessible to read than Pynchon.\r\n\r\nI reckon
    the trick with Dellilo is to accept early on that the characters don't speak quite
    like people speak but, though you seem to lose a level of identification (and
    ability to suspend your disbelief), you gain so much insight into reality and
    relationships and people through the actual content of the dialogue that it doesn't
    matter. White noise is fun and a lot less intimidating in size than Underworld,
    I'd read that first and see if you dig what's going on,\r\ncheers, have fun in
    BH\r\n\r\nNick"
  created: '2006-12-20 13:49:27'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I just read the book, <a href="http://www.randomhouse.com/vintage/catalog/display.pperl?isbn=9780375725845&view=rg">Perfume</a>
    by Patrick Suskind. It was so engrossing that I woke up each morning, before I
    finished it, thinking about it. I probably could have read it in its entirety
    had I had a longer flight. It is graphic and rich with detail. I recommend it
    entirely.
  created: '2006-12-20 17:42:05'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Ooh, another one, Michael Chabon's The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and
    Clay.\r\n\r\nAlso - on a more populist note, Memoirs of a Geisha is a pretty compulsive
    read. Bet it's translated into Italian.\r\n\r\nNick: I totally agree re Delillo
    and Pynchon. I love Delillo, and have read a lot of his books. I just found Underworld
    bloated and un-engrossing. THe first  50 pages were great tho. All I've read of
    Pynchon were Crying of Lot 49 which is fun but kinda dated now, and Vineland which
    I liked but didn't love.\r\n\r\n100 Years of Solitude is another winner.\r\n\r\nThe
    Brothers K rocks.\r\n\r\nMiddlemarch by George Eliot, War & Peace, anything by
    Edith Wharton, Infinite Jest a few more weighty tomes."
  created: '2006-12-20 18:21:11'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.amazon.co.uk/Horrific-Sufferings-Mind-Reading-Hercules-Wonderful/dp/009946439X/sr=1-1/qid=1166643990/ref=sr_1_1/026-1105165-7952435?ie=UTF8&s=books\">The
    Horrific Sufferings Of The Mind-Reading Monster Hercules Barefoot, his wonderful
    love and terrible hatred</a> Since Perfume has been mentioned twice, good choice
    too, I am currently reading this, which is blurbed as being the Perfume of the
    next generation, tricky charades title too:)\r\n<a href=\"http://www.amazon.co.uk/Suite-Francaise-Irene-Nemirovsky/dp/0701178965/sr=1-1/qid=1166643951/ref=sr_1_1/026-1105165-7952435?ie=UTF8&s=books\">Suite
    Fran\xE7aise</a> the mixed threads of several Parisian\u2019s lives affected by
    the German invasion, rendered tragic by the final outcome for the author.\r\n\r\nTim\r\n\r\n{edit:
    sorry forgot to add the title for the second}\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-20 19:53:24'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Yeah, <em>Kavalier and Clay</em> is a good one. I also liked <em>Wonder Boys</em>,
    by the same author.
  created: '2006-12-21 00:08:56'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "<em>Siddhartha</em> by Hermann Hesse\r\n\r\n<em>For Esme - With Love and
    Squalor</em> by J.D. Salinger\r\n\r\nBut with limited suitcase space then easily
    the most economical for size to content ratio has to be the haiku collection...\r\n\r\n<em>On
    Love and Barley</em> by Basho\r\n\r\n...infinity in my pocket. I won't leave home
    without it :)\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-21 02:02:20'
- author:
    name: Manlio Napoli
    picture: 111362
  body: "Very helpful and inspiring. Almost all the titles you suggested are translated
    into Italian and available as compact size paperbacks.\r\nThank you and Merry
    Christmas."
  created: '2006-12-21 14:47:05'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "House of Leaves, Mark Z. Danielewski. A good length read, thoughtful messages,
    and can be quite a conversation piece. Simultaneously gimmicky and substantial,
    ireverent and relavent; it is well worth rereading and dissection, making any
    copy a bargain. It's even panders to the typophile in you.\r\n\r\nI don't recommend
    many products. This is something exceptional.\r\n\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-12-21 17:49:58'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "I thoroughly enjoyed Auster's Book of Illusions. Also, a different and ribald
    book, Tom Robbins' Fierce Invalids Home from Hot Climates.\r\nMargaret Elphinstone's
    Hy Brasil was an engrossing read, as was The Poisonwood Bible by Barbara Kingsolver.
    Mmmm, and Blindness by Jose Saramago.\r\n\r\nFor poetry, I'd get some kind of
    modern or postmodern anthology. And an anthology of short stories can be a wonderful
    thing, too.\r\n\r\nAbout Perfume, I have heard both rave and negative reviews.
    So I haven't read it yet, but probably will eventually. \r\n\r\nK."
  created: '2006-12-21 19:52:42'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Happy holidays to all typophiles including Manlio.\r\n\r\n<em>I don\u2019t
    recommend many products. This is something exceptional.</em>\r\n\r\nAgreed. My
    unreserved recommendation is for<a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Cryptonomicon-Neal-Stephenson/dp/0060512806/sr=1-1/qid=1166743022/ref=pd_bbs_sr_1/104-0486363-1791103?ie=UTF8&s=books\">
    Cryptonomicon</a> by Neal Stephenson.\r\n\r\n(and if the size of your suitcase
    increases or your holidays mysteriously lengthen you might consider taking all
    three volumes of his <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Quicksilver-Baroque-Cycle-Vol-1/dp/0060593083/sr=1-3/qid=1166743022/ref=pd_bbs_sr_3/104-0486363-1791103?ie=UTF8&s=books\">Baroque
    Cycle...</a>)"
  created: '2006-12-21 23:24:11'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: "> <em>About Perfume\u2026 I haven\u2019t read it yet, but probably will eventually.</em>\r\n\r\nMake
    sure to read it before seeing the visual travesty on the big screen."
  created: '2006-12-22 00:16:33'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Conor, have you seen it? It would be a shame, although not unusual, if the
    film is so awful, because the book is great, but it is difficult to imagine a
    more difficult theme to render in film.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-12-22 10:27:18'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "yeah, they don't make movies scratch and sniff yet, do they? \r\n\r\nI usually
    read the book and then refuse to watch the movie!\r\n\r\nOne of the most disappointing
    movies from books (a book I would also add to my desert island list), and which
    I must admit I haven't seen, is Narnia. Not only did my daughter's English teacher
    read the abridged version to the class, she dragged them to see the movie. E's
    experience of the real Chronicles (when we get to them) will forever be marred
    by images of the movie.\r\n\r\nK."
  created: '2006-12-22 16:54:58'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass.\r\n\r\nEvery
    five years or so\u2026\r\n\r\n\r\nChinese Zen Poems - What Hold Has This Mountain?\r\nCompiled
    and Translated by Larry Smith & Mei Hui Huang\r\n\r\nWonderful translations and
    immense power in a very slim volume.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-12-22 19:03:25'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: well since it was the bible last time, how bout the <em>tao te ching</em>?
  created: '2006-12-22 19:17:05'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Although I am glad I have read the Tao Te Ching the exposition of belief
    systems is not nearly as interesting as the art.\r\n\r\nTaoist poetry - definitely\u2026\r\n\r\nMass
    in B Minor interests me a lot more than what inspired it.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-12-22 19:34:17'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Not only did my daughter\u2019s English teacher read the abridged version
    to the class...</cite>\r\n\r\nSomeone abridged those books? Good god, there wasn't
    much to them in the first place. "
  created: '2006-12-22 19:47:12'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "<em>\"Although I am glad I have read the Tao Te Ching the exposition of belief
    systems is not nearly as interesting as the art. Taoist poetry - definitely\u2026\"</em>\r\n\r\nI
    thought the Tao Te Ching is Taoist poetry... as long as you don't waste breath
    or thought on the usual scholar's introduction :)\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-22 21:02:08'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I discovered my sense of spirituality through art, primarily Chinese and
    Japanese poetry. More specifically Tao and Zen poets.\r\n\r\nIt's cloudier and
    that suits me\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-12-22 21:46:24'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite>Alice\u2019s Adventures in Wonderland</cite>\r\nAbsolutely. I even
    bought myself the pop-up book. A masterpiece by Robert Sabuda published by Simon
    & Schuster in the UK, quite expensive and you need to keep the kids at distance,
    which is sad because they go mad when they see it.\r\n\r\nI loved <cite>A Confederacy
    of Dunces</cite> (Pulitzer Prize) by J.K. Toole. Set in New Orleans, it has been
    translated but I'm afraid it only makes sense in English. Awesome.\r\n\r\nWhen
    I left England I took with me 3 books by Jonathan Coe: <cite>The Rotters Club</cite>,
    <cite>The Closed Circle</cite> (follow up) and <cite>What a Carve Up!</cite> (The
    title in the US changed to <cite>The Winshaw Family</cite> I think) and a few
    Private Eye editions to remember my wonderful years in the UK! \r\n\r\nHow could
    I forget: John Lanchester's <cite>The Debt to Pleasure</cite>. What a book: Eccentric,
    refined and voluptuous. And Manlio, the Italian translation is fine too (the title
    in Italian is <cite>Gola</cite>). \r\n\r\nItalian: anything by Calvino, Sciascia
    or Primo Levi, but I don't need to tell you that!\r\n\r\n<cite>Perfume</cite>
    I read it when it first came out (or a couple of years later) and everyone was
    talking about it. For some reason I wasn't that impressed but maybe I should have
    another go.\r\n\r\nWhen I was working on the poster for a campaign against Tessa
    Jowell's Gambling Bill a couple of years ago, <cite>The Gambler</cite> by Dostoyevsky
    \ was a great source of inspiration. His descriptions are so graphic it's amazing."
  created: '2006-12-23 13:44:56'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "I have not read \"Perfume\" since the 1980s but it has stayed with me as
    few other books have. A powerful and sensual tale.\r\n\r\nAnother literary high
    point for me -- not sure if it was popular enough to be translated into Italian
    -- is a book called \"Le Mas Th\xE9otime\" by Henri Bosco. It's a wonderful mystery
    about rural life in Provence in the late 19th century. It was published only once
    in English, in the late 1940s, but perhaps with luck it was also published in
    Italian. In France it seems to be perennially in print.\r\n\r\nBruce"
  created: '2006-12-23 14:55:09'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "> Alice\u2019s Adventures in Wonderland\r\nAbsolutely. I even bought myself
    the pop-up book. A masterpiece by Robert Sabuda published by Simon & Schuster
    in the UK, quite expensive and you need to keep the kids at distance, which is
    sad because they go mad when they see it.\r\n\r\nSounds fabulous Lore - I will
    definitely check it out\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-12-23 17:33:18'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "The pop-up Alice in Wonderland is indeed spectacular.\r\n\r\nAnd I agree
    re Confederacy of Dunces - it starts out a bit hard to get into but well worth
    the investment.\r\n\r\nAnother long and totally engrossing book: Lonesome Dove.
    Not highbrow but was so so sad to see it end, even after 1000+ pages.\r\n\r\nCormac
    McCarthy's Blood Meridian is BEAUTIFUL."
  created: '2006-12-23 17:57:13'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "No type, something else - \"Neo-Darwinism\" to clean up the brain...\r\n\r\nRichard
    Dawkins\r\n\"The Selfish Gene\" or/and\r\n\"The Extended Phenotype\"\r\n\r\nBoth
    books are brillant!"
  created: '2006-12-23 22:15:15'
- author:
    name: Manlio Napoli
    picture: 111362
  body: "I found <em>Underworld</em> at Rome's airport and <em>Perfume</em> at my
    parent's home. I was so unpatient that I began to read both at the same time (not
    a good idea maybe).\r\n\r\n> <em>House of Leaves, Mark Z. Danielewski</em>\r\nI
    will buy that.\r\n\r\n> <em>Neal Stephenson</em>\r\nI already read <em>Cryptonomicon</em>
    and the <em>Baroque Cycle</em> and truly enjoyed.\r\n\r\n> <em>The Winshaw Family</em>\r\nI
    read that many years ago and still recommend to all my friends.\r\n\r\n> <em>Calvino,
    Sciascia or Primo Levi</em>\r\nYou read my mind!\r\n\r\n> <em>Cormac McCarthy\u2019s
    Blood Meridian is BEAUTIFUL</em>\r\nI agree.\r\n\r\nCiao a tutti a buone feste!"
  created: '2006-12-27 10:15:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"What would you choose?\"\r\n\r\nDear Manlio, \r\nIf it's not too late,
    I'd take the 1912 \"American Typefounders Founders Book of Type Styles\". It's
    more than just a book, and a great Bible companion.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2006-12-27 13:28:22'
- author:
    name: Manlio Napoli
    picture: 111362
  body: <a href="http://www.lib.uiowa.edu/spec-coll/gifts/miller.htm">This</a>? Where
    can I find it?
  created: '2006-12-29 17:23:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" Where can I find it?\"\r\nDepends. What do you want to do with it after
    you find it?"
  created: '2007-01-09 14:55:01'
- author:
    name: Manlio Napoli
    picture: 111362
  body: Still don't know. Depends on weight and size of the book.
  created: '2007-01-10 11:23:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: '"Depends on weight and size of the book." 12" X 9" X 5", must be three to
    five pounds, but it''s got a lot of ink. '
  created: '2007-01-10 12:48:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "I loved Confederacy of Dunces - very funny. Loved Perfume also.\r\n\r\nGhostwritten
    and Cloud Atlas by David Mitchell are both brilliant.\r\n\r\nAmsterdam by Ian
    McEwan.\r\n\r\nAnd if you fancy something obscene: Filth by Irvine Welsh\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2007-01-10 14:12:20'
- author:
    name: Manlio Napoli
    picture: 111362
  body: "> <em>Amsterdam by Ian McEwan</em>\r\nI just got <em>Saturday</em> as Christmas
    present. Thank you."
  created: '2007-01-10 14:25:43'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Now that's funny. I've literally just finished <cite>Saturday</cite>. 15
    minutes ago! Loved it, even the long and detailed descriptions of surgeries and
    squash games. Strange because I remember I wasn't very impressed by <cite>Atonement</cite>
    when I first read it but now maybe I should have another go. How do you find the
    Italian translation of <cite>Saturday</cite> Manlio? I read it in Brazilian Portuguese.\r\n\r\nI
    like Patrick McGrath too. Not sure if his is your cup of tea, it's very intriguing
    though, a bit E.A.Poe-ish maybe. Stay away fom <cite>Martha</cite> though, it's
    a very heavy book to carry around (I know the feeling, for years I had to choose
    my books by their size and weight because I was always moving around). "
  created: '2007-01-10 15:08:43'
- author:
    name: Manlio Napoli
    picture: 111362
  body: "> <em>How do you find the Italian translation of Saturday Manlio?</em>\r\nI
    still didn't begin to read it, so I can't tell you anything.\r\nA friend of mine
    is literally mad about <em>Atonement</em>. He even reads pages from that book
    to every woman he's dating."
  created: '2007-01-10 15:24:27'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I second Cloud Atlas. It's challenging but a great book.
  created: '2007-01-10 16:16:06'
- author:
    name: elizabeth_355
    picture: 112087
  body: "<EM>The Shipping News</EM> by Annie Proulx\r\n<EM>Devil in a Blue Dress</EM>
    or almost anything by Walter Mosley"
  created: '2007-01-10 17:10:11'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Hmmm...<cite>From Bauhaus to Our House</cite> by Tom Wolfe.\r\nOk, a light
    weight from the literature point of view but on the other hand it's a light weight
    in terms of size ; ) \r\n"
  created: '2007-01-16 20:24:23'
- author:
    name: Manlio Napoli
    picture: 111362
  body: "Unfortunately I came back to Mostar with less novels (but lenghty ones) than
    I wanted to bring. Anyway I already have a list for the next time.\r\nLore, I
    began to read <em>Saturday</em> and think it's really good. Thank you for all
    your suggestions!"
  created: '2007-01-17 00:27:38'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Lore - I bought the Alice in Wonderland pop-up for my sister in law for her
    birthday. She absolutely loves it! I do too since I had to sneak a peek before
    sending it out.\r\n\r\nThanks for the suggestion.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-01-17 00:36:58'
- author:
    name: katzenjammer
  body: How about <em>Under the Volcano</em>?
  created: '2007-01-17 00:49:34'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "I just finished Three Day Road by Joseph Boyden. Fantastic, but certainly
    not an upbeat novel. Two native american boys who go off to fight in WWI. I was
    stunned (and still have mixed feelings about this) to realize after I finished
    it that the author is young and Scottish/Irish--Basically as far from native american
    as you can get.\r\nA good, thought-provoking book nonetheless.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-17 15:11:44'
- author:
    name: Sebastiaan
    picture: 112084
  body: I just zipped through Mark Z. Danielewski's <a href=www.onlyrevolutions.com>Only
    Revolutions</a>, as I am a big fan of his first novel, House of Leaves.  It's
    amazing. I can't recommend it to the 'classical' reader, but anyone who liked
    House of Leaves and is also a great fan of Kerouac will appreciate this road novel.
    It's also ingenuously designed, it has two front covers, and the pages are laid
    out so that there are always two stories on one page, but either one rotated 180
    degrees. Well, you should just check it out in a local bookstore. It's wonderful.
  created: '2007-01-17 17:35:27'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "My pleasure Paul. That book is a real treat.\r\n\r\nI don't know about you
    guys but I find this little \"book club\" of ours both nice and useful. We should
    keep it going even if Manlio doesn't have any space left in his luggage anymore!
    \ : )\r\nPlus he might want to go to back to Italy for Easter holidays...\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-18 00:53:23'
- author:
    name: Manlio Napoli
    picture: 111362
  body: "I agree with Lore, so here are three books I read every year or so:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li><a
    href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Arabia-Felix-Danish-expedition-1761-1767/dp/B0007K0QU2/sr=1-2/qid=1169103819/ref=sr_1_2/102-3861644-5318529?ie=UTF8&s=books\">Arabia
    Felix</a> by Thorkild Hansen</li>\r\n<li><a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Manuscript-Found-Saragossa-Penguin-Classics/dp/0140445803/sr=1-1/qid=1169103962/ref=pd_bbs_sr_1/102-3861644-5318529?ie=UTF8&s=books\">The
    Manuscript Found in Saragossa</a> by Jan Potocki</li>\r\n<li><a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Cats-Cradle-Kurt-Vonnegut/dp/038533348X/sr=1-1/qid=1169104012/ref=pd_bbs_sr_1/102-3861644-5318529?ie=UTF8&s=books\">Cat's
    Cradle</a> by Kurt Vonnegut</li>\r\n</ul>\r\nMy parents will come here for Easter
    holidays so I gave them my wishlist ;)"
  created: '2007-01-18 07:10:19'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: 'Updike''s essays and lectures compilation, <em>The Well Made Book</em> have
    been my mainstay winter reading. Good stuff, that. '
  created: '2007-01-18 08:20:15'
date: '2006-12-19 23:36:07'
node_type: forum
title: Sort of "desert island books"

---
