---
author:
  name: Choz Cunningham
  picture: 111714
body: "Is there anyplace to get a snap-together font [[EULA]]? I can't snip and paste
  from someone else's w/o permission. I have had trouble finding a lawyer with any
  interest in writing one (esp. within my budget). Said budget being comparable to
  picking up a common fill-in-the-blank legal agreement from Staples or Office Depot.\r\n\r\nIf
  there is such a thing, I am sure it would interest several here, even if it is disclaimed
  from any lawyer's endorsement."
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: In the past Monotype talked about allowing others to use their EULA. Might
    want to cotnact them, or Bill Davis (now at Ascender). Alternately doesn't MyFonts
    have a standard EULA for clients to use?
  created: '2006-12-20 19:52:36'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Choz, Chester posted Village's EULA for anyone to use as they will. FWIW a
    lot of EULAs are super similar.
  created: '2006-12-20 20:12:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My fonts does indeed. There have been several threads here on Typophile regarding
    EULAs which also were helpful. You might try searching for them and check the
    wiki as well.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-20 20:12:09'
- author:
    name: peterbruhn
    picture: 110509
  body: "You can use ours if you want:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fountain.nu/licenseagreement.asp\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-20 20:15:05'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>You can use ours if you want:</em>\r\n\r\nAnd THAT is part of why Fountain
    is one of my favorite foundries."
  created: '2006-12-20 20:49:37'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "re Fountain's:\r\n\r\n\"When embedding fonts the document must not include
    more than 60%(percent) of the character set of any individual style of the font
    before any distribution is allowed to take place. Using Adobe Illustrator or any
    similar applications which convert the font characters into editable outlines
    is NOT an acceptable means of producing an electronic document for distribution.\"\r\n\r\nThat
    seems arbitrarily and overly restrictive to me.\r\n\r\nI never understood the
    fear of PDF embedding. It's like telling people that you can only use half of
    the characters for each individual you print.\r\n\r\nIt's one of those 'punish
    the paying customer for things other people do' it seems.\r\n\r\n\"You will secure
    embedded documents against unauthorized use by any third party\"\r\n\r\nThat's
    even worse. Sounds like if someone steals my car and robs a bank, I'm liable.
    (Maybe I am...these are odd times...)\r\n\r\n(ADDENDUM...I in no way mean to single
    Fountain out, as this seems to be a common issue with most foundries' EULAs.)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-20 21:43:57'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>That seems arbitrarily and overly restrictive to me.\r\n\r\nI never
    understood the fear of PDF embedding. It\u2019s like telling people that you can
    only use half of the characters for each individual you print.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    I find particularly odd is the restriction against even including <em>outlines</em>
    of the font. Is there some reason other than simply preventing piracy? And if
    its just to prevent piracy isn't it a bit paranoid to think that someone would
    rip the outlines from a PDF instead of just downloading a pirate copy?"
  created: '2006-12-20 21:55:45'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "And, since it was asked, here's my ideal (as a consumer) EULA that I'd like
    to see:\r\n\r\n----------------------\r\n\r\nYou may...\r\n\r\n...use this font
    on paper, online and in embedded documents.\r\n...install this on the machines
    that you personally use for work.\r\n\r\nYou may not...\r\n\r\n...sell this font
    (unless you are selling the individual license you purchased and, subsequently,
    delete all copies that you own)\r\n...give away this font\r\n...install it on
    other people's machines (with the exception of coworkers machines provided you
    have a site license)\r\n...sue us if your computer blows up because you installed
    our font.\r\n\r\n----------------------\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-20 21:55:46'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: From what I've seen, <a href=http://www.typetrust.com/info/eula.php>Type Trust</a
    href> has the most reasonable EULA.
  created: '2006-12-20 23:27:02'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I think point 2.6 is a little over-the-top:\r\n\r\n<ol>2.6) Use In Branding
    Systems\r\n\r\nYou may not incorporate any Glyph(s) the Font Software in the production
    of a Branding System without obtaining a Commercial License from Publisher authorizing
    you to do so.</ol>"
  created: '2006-12-20 23:49:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Interesting the closest thing I've seen to Darrel 's perfect EULA is the
    Microsoft Vista / Office 12 license... ;-)\r\n\r\nc.\tFont Components. While the
    software is running, you may use its fonts to display and print content. You may
    only\r\n\u2022 embed fonts in content as permitted by the embedding restrictions
    in the fonts; and\r\n\u2022 temporarily download them to a printer or other output
    device to help print content.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-21 01:16:49'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Bunch of great info here. Thanks guys! MyFonts generic agreement was kind
    of ...generic. And not how I want to share my stuff.\r\n\r\nI have to say, the
    readability of Vllg's agreement is very nice. Specifically, I read <a href=\"http://www.vllg.com/Village/Mavis/Licensing/\">the
    1.3 for the village branded Mavis</a>. This is the open license? Thinking I can
    cobble something out of that with some snips of Fountain's details.\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\nThe
    typetrust agreement seems to parallels an idea I was toying around with. Is there
    a market for (or an example anyone has an opinion on) having fonts purchasable
    under different licenses? Examples:\r\n\r\nA 'Designer license' might have unlimited
    machines that are used predominantly by a single person - I rarely use my antique
    laptop, but it would be nice to have the same fonts on that as the workstation
    and the server. A 'Corporate license' might have unlimited machines owned by 1
    company, and several sub-licenses for giving to print services. A 'Learning license'
    might include support, A \"Custom Super Deluxe license Royale ' might include
    a finite number of custom glyph additions/modifications, etc.\r\n\r\nIf this was
    a viable route, shouldn't these be kept as separate products, with their own appropriate
    license embedded in them only? Is this even an interesting or good idea?\r\n\r\n\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-12-21 06:12:45'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>I think point 2.6 is a little over-the-top:</em>\r\n\r\nI don't. I'm
    actually really surprised you do, Tiff. If you look at how reasonably priced Type
    Trust's fonts are, you must admit it is unfair for a giant corporation like P&G
    (for example) to only have to pay $200 when they plan to mass market and reap
    \"gi-normous\" profits using a typeface. It only seems fair that they share those
    profits."
  created: '2006-12-21 14:38:13'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I guess I'm a little bit more on the side of graphic designers on that point.
    It seems unfair for anyone to have to get additional licensing simply to use a
    few glyphs to make a logo. If they were illustrative glyphs then I'd understand,
    but to use the letters AT&T and have to get additional licensing seems, like I
    said, a little over-the-top. \r\n\r\nYes, yes, from the type designers point-of-view,
    it sucks that a gi-normous company could get branded with three letters, but what
    about the rest of us that don't do logos for gi-normous companies?\r\n\r\nAt the
    end of the day, they can do whatever they think is fair in their license. It is
    up to them. But, they are turning away some customers."
  created: '2006-12-21 16:34:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I tend to agree with Tiff, I have to support the foundry's right to put anything
    they like into their EULA, but these kind of non-standard terms, don't just send
    customers away, they can trap customers who don't read them properly - these tend
    to be small companies rather than the multinationals who have armies of lawyers
    and deep pockets to solve this type of problem. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si "
  created: '2006-12-21 16:53:28'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "What I think all those exclusions mean is that for commercial use (even if
    it is just a logotype) you have to get a commercial license, which they don't
    sell on their website. The only have an automated cart to sell a something-else
    license, whatever it may be called. That they offer multiple licenses, but only
    one type via web seems the biggest bummer. I assume they base the 'larger' license
    on the scale of the client, or something like that.\r\n\r\nThis makes me wonder,
    aside from the specific examples in the faq, what would not require a better license
    than the one they most readily sell. Booksetting, I suppose.\r\n\r\nThis method
    is the most like what I am proposing above, though I want to have them all accessible
    to the shopper to compare and pick. Is this too many choices, and confusing or
    senseless?\r\n\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The
    Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-12-21 16:57:41'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>If you look at how reasonably priced Type Trust\u2019s fonts are, you
    must admit it is unfair for a giant corporation like P&G (for example) to only
    have to pay $200 when they plan to mass market and reap \u201Cgi-normous\u201D
    profits using a typeface. It only seems fair that they share those profits.</cite>\r\n\r\nNot
    to mention that some designers who are charging five or ten-thousand dollars for
    simple logotypes are letting the foundries do a lot of work that used to be done
    by lettering artists who were paid a lot more than a font sells for now."
  created: '2006-12-21 17:04:08'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>but what about the rest of us that don\u2019t do logos for gi-normous
    companies?</em>\r\n\r\nI agree with you and Simon here. I think branding is a
    \"gray area\" issue. Is it branding for a small fishing and tackle store in Anytown,
    USA? Or the new look of Tide detergent? Both are branding, but obviously there
    are different uses for each. \r\n\r\nHow about we introduce the idea that photo
    houses use with Rights Managed vs. Royalty-Free? "
  created: '2006-12-21 17:19:10'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>How about we introduce the idea that photo houses use with Rights Managed
    vs. Royalty-Free?</em>\r\n\r\nExpand, please?\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-12-21 17:38:09'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Rights-Managed photos charge the user a \"per usage\" fee. Depending on how
    the image is going to be used. Rights-Managed photography is usually more expensive.
    In many cases a contract can also grant the user exclusivity to the image.\r\n\r\nRoyalty-Free
    photography is generally cheaper (often in terms of quality as well), but there
    usually is no limit to how many times you can use the image.\r\n\r\nSee <a href=http://creative.gettyimages.com/source/home/license.aspx>Getty
    Images here</a href> for a better description."
  created: '2006-12-21 17:55:09'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: 'All of this talk of snap together EULAs. I''ll paraphrase Frank Martinez
    here in saying that a type designer''s eula is a major component of their business
    plan, so one size (or pieces of one size) will not fit all. '
  created: '2006-12-21 18:17:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Good point, also with respect to the seemingly odd clauses in EULA's Frank
    said that in most cases foundry's inserted these becuase they got burned or ripped
    off in that way in the past - which is worth thinking about.
  created: '2006-12-21 18:21:03'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Yes, that is a good point James. I certainly was not trying to say that one
    EULA fits all. That will never be the case.\r\n\r\nTerry, the idea of Rights Managed
    vs. Royalty-free fonts might eventually be something to consider. But first the
    masses must be educated--and for the record we geeks here on Typophile are not
    the masses--that there is value to deserve such licensing control. \r\n\r\nNot
    to be pessimistic, but I wonder how many people have honestly licensed fonts from
    The Type Trust in regards to their EULA. Or, more to the point, how many people
    have licensed from them and then realized what they have done. Ah EULAs. Gotta
    love them."
  created: '2006-12-21 18:45:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "My EULA allows glyphs to be used in logos.\r\nBut for more sensitive foundries,
    perhaps a clause along the lines of \"...only if the type has a dropshadow, hilite,
    and/or swoosh\" might be more practical than an outright ban."
  created: '2006-12-21 19:12:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\u201C\u2026only if the type has a dropshadow, hilite, and/or swoosh\u201D
    \r\n\r\nNow your talkin', and an inner glow costs even more :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-21 19:15:15'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: 'Fonts becoma a part of "branding" under different conditions anyway. A few
    glyphs in a logotype might be one thing, but many corporate style guides dictate
    things to the extent of: all corporate communications (or some subset, like a
    specific ad campaign) must use "Font X". A special corporate use license is certainly
    warranted in the latter situation, the fee for which could and should be based
    with regard to the size of the company and extent of use.'
  created: '2006-12-21 20:36:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"all corporate communications (or some subset, like a specific ad campaign)
    must use \u201CFont X\u201D. A special corporate use license is certainly warranted
    in the latter situation, the fee for which could and should be based with regard
    to the size of the company and extent of use.\"\r\n\r\nYes, but that is covered
    under number of users or devices already.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-21 20:46:19'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Yes, but that is covered under number of users or devices already.</em>\r\n\r\nSort
    of. It depends on whether we're talking for \"internal\" use, or \"general\" use.
    If you're a magazine publisher for example, you're going to be printing an awful
    lot of type."
  created: '2006-12-21 20:55:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I meant corporate branding as in the quote,\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-21 22:05:01'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Most corporate licenses allow distribution to parties doing work for said
    corporation. Printers, agencies etc. So that would not be covered in the standard
    EULA under number of users or devices. Generally corporations want Worldwide/Enterprise
    licenses. These tend to rather expensive, and as it relates to the business of
    type design, a couple of those a year, are just what the doctor ordered.
  created: '2006-12-21 22:05:04'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I would think that instead of worrying about people using a font in a logo
    they would concentrate on corporate licensing instead. '
  created: '2006-12-21 23:01:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That was what I meant too Tiff.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-22 00:28:43'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Yeah, but many smaller foundries don't have that luxury. You have to pay
    your dues before a foundry can command say Linotype or FontShop sized licensing.
    \r\n\r\nI think we're talking about different kinds of business models here, and
    no one EULA is going to satisfy everyone's needs."
  created: '2006-12-22 03:18:38'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: We frown upon the occasional user asking us to recommend a good free font.
    But a free EULA? Now that's a great idea :-)
  created: '2006-12-22 05:30:50'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Well, if I was at eulaphile.com, I imagine the situation would be different.
    :) There is still vital info here. And this was all after getting blank stares
    back from 3 lawyers, \"...you want to make a <em>what</em>?\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-12-22 12:04:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"And this was all after getting blank stares back from 3 lawyers, \u201C\u2026you
    want to make a what?\r\n\r\nFrank Martinez won't give you any blank stares. He
    is \"Da Man\" when it comes to EULAs.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-22 13:18:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">We frown upon the occasional user asking us to recommend a good free font.
    But a free EULA? Now that\u2019s a great idea :-)\r\n\r\nGood point."
  created: '2006-12-22 15:50:08'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Terry,\r\n\r\nIf you have a font design that a corporation wants, you license
    it to them at the same rates as Lino or Mono. It could be even more! We have been
    fortunate enough to be involved in some of this and I know for a fact that in
    one project we were more expensive than Monotype. But the client eventually selected
    one of our designs. \r\n\r\nEric Olsen's Process Foundry has licensed some of
    their fonts for use on the Chevrolet account. \r\n\r\nThe problem, as I see it,
    is not the difference between large and small. It is that many small foundries
    under price their work. They haven't either looked for or gotten good advice as
    to current business practices as it relates to font license pricing. \r\n\r\nThere
    are some fairly consistent pricing models out there. You just have to do a bit
    of research. Speaking any more about pricing on a public forum could be construed
    as price fixing, so I'll leave it there."
  created: '2006-12-22 16:20:20'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Busy with work and the holidays I missed this...\r\n\r\nJames, My comment
    wasn't so much about size as about experience. You and Eric Olsen I would say
    fall into the category of having \"paid your dues.\""
  created: '2007-01-04 22:07:37'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I don't frown on users asking for a good free font. Typophile.com is not
    a hive mind. If they find a font that is legal, free and good, more power to them.
    They would be stupid to choose anything else, if that meets all their needs. So,
    I frown on those who overbuy type, and those who oversell it.\r\n\r\nSince a number
    of people here make a living making, productizing or selling it, the bias of the
    community might be towards recommending commercial products. Not out of direct
    greed, but out of an affinity to the rest of the industry, and a ingrained tendency
    to value all type.\r\n\r\nOr, since free fonts are widely available and can be
    sampled prior to use indefinitely, \"we\" frown on askers, because it is a bit
    obtuse, like asking what's the number for 911? Ok, maybe I frown a little, too.
    ;)\r\n\r\nI didn't go to a lawyer's forum looking for the info, and did some research
    first. I am aware of the difference between having your longtime estate lawyer
    draft a will and fill-in-the-blank will kits. Quality. But it is driving me crazy
    to write one-off agreements, and the examples above have been an immense help
    in drafting my own set, as have the responses to them from \"we\" type consumers.
    Some EULA is better than none, and I know I am getting what I pay for. Actually,
    I am getting an education, and it is a bargain.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2007-01-04 23:46:18'
- author:
    name: Vertex
    picture: 112106
  body: "It\u2019s not a common EULA but - from my point of view - a quite simple,
    efficient and interesting solution. - <a href= http://www.molotro.com/license.html>The
    MOLOTRO Licence Agreement!</a> \r\n\r\nI hope it contributes to your requirements.\r\n\r\n/*
    Vertex */\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-05 06:21:33'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "<cite>I think point 2.6 is a little over-the-top...</cite>\r\n<cite>... At
    the end of the day, they can do whatever they think is fair in their license.
    It is up to them. But, they are turning away some customers.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm
    a little late coming into this thread, but I just wanted to add a few things that
    seem to be overlooked/assumed.\r\n\r\nTiff, you make it sound as though you expect
    a Commercial Use license to be completely unaffordable to the little guy.  This
    is not the case and is not inteded to turn away customers, but rather to involve
    them in a real discussion/recognition of the value of type.\r\n\r\nThe TypeTrust
    position is that it's wholly reasonable for a graphic designer to sell a logo
    for a few grand and in turn recognize the value of the typefaces used.  It's a
    matter of value, and always open to negotiation.\r\n\r\nA license does not always
    have to be assigned a monetary value either.  There are other forms of exchange.
    \ Listing designer credits would be ideal in the case of a magazine or book.  Other
    media such as billboards and broadcast would more likely be a matter of money.\r\n\r\nIf
    a potential customer reads any part of our EULA and decides not to license from
    us, then there is absolutley no harm done.  We'd actually respect it as a genuine
    act of respect for the EULA.  If someone is reading and comparing EULAs, we're
    already happy.\r\n\r\nWe're not in the retail font business to make a quick buck.
    \ We're in it to publish good type and protect our interests in doing so.  We
    want to establish a clientbase rather than a customerbase... people who want to
    work with <i>us</i>, not just our fonts.\r\n\r\nIt's an optimistic view to expect
    the design community to someday understand the value and rights involved in creating
    and using digital type.  Some might call it \"over-the-top\".  (Over the top of
    <i>what</i> is my question.)   But the greater design community's generally lax
    perception of the value of the type designer's work won't be heightened if we
    as type designers don't assert our positions and protect our interests.  A very
    specific, strict EULA is the first step in setting the stage.  Being open and
    available for comment and discussion is the next."
  created: '2007-01-14 00:14:56'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Silas you're right. I have only had a few opportunities to discuss commercial
    licenses with a handful of foundries. My experience in that is limited. Also,
    I could've said something similar to you in that conversation should be the first
    step, not giving up.
  created: '2007-01-15 23:43:40'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I suppose I should connect the threads\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/31527\">
    EULA II</a>"
  created: '2007-02-18 15:58:26'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Bumpalump!\r\n\r\nI've been looking for EULA writing info and figured to
    search instead of starting a new thread and asking the same things that have been
    asked all over again. Good thing I did, too."
  created: '2009-02-15 22:59:37'
date: '2006-12-20 19:37:28'
node_type: forum
title: E U L A

---
