---
author:
  name: cuttlefish
  picture: 111881
body: "I like to make mine with five points, but in most fonts I see them done with
  six. Conceivably seven could work, but eight or four wouldn't in most cases. Three
  might, though.\r\n\r\nWhat do you think about [[asterisk|asterisks]]? "
comments:
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: I've seen quite a lot of 5 point asterisks & in the 3 fonts I've made so far
    I've made them with 4, 5 & 6 points. I guess it mainly depends on the font & what
    the designer feels fits it best (as long as it's recognisable as a star).
  created: '2006-12-21 08:48:07'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "I always felt 5 did the trick.\r\nWhen the font is well thought-out - normally
    the asterick has been as well.\r\n\r\nOne of the ugliest I ever came across was
    a font named Caledo - it was Alphatype's version of Caledonia. It was one of the
    three characters they changed to call it a new font. They made an 8-pointed mess
    of it. I did find great use of it one day. Ballantine Books had one of their \"Inspirational\"
    book covers to design and they needed a dingbat to separate the author and title
    on the spine -- I gave them Caledo's asterick - it was the only place I could
    ever see it be used.\r\n\r\nGlad others think along these lines. You know - the
    regular people out there would consider us all nuts..."
  created: '2006-12-21 12:40:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"the regular people out there would consider us all nuts\u2026\"\r\n\r\nAnd
    they would be right about us :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-21 13:48:32'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Speak for yourself, Chris!  ;-)\r\n\r\nSince the asterisk has represented
    a star as far back as the Sumerian civilization (some 5,000 years ago), the five-pointed
    version is so familiar to us.  There's no reason why some other number of points
    wouldn't work (although I'd vote for an odd number), but when we see something
    else, it rates low on the comfort scale."
  created: '2006-12-21 15:01:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "And here I have been making 6 pointed asterisks for all my fonts :-/\r\nGuess
    I better get back on the comfort level banmdwagon quick :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-21 15:08:31'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Looking through some old specimen books, the six-pointed asterisk seems to
    be most common traditionally, at least 50% more than five pointed ones. I also
    saw the occasional oddball with four or eight points.\r\n\r\nI usually make them
    with six points in my own fonts. I write them that way, too. It takes only three
    strokes."
  created: '2006-12-21 15:31:02'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "Well, I'd vote for 6 pointed, since it's easier to hint in TrueType, in very
    small display sizes.\r\n\r\nGuess this makes me nuttier than the nuts.\r\n\r\nJason
    C"
  created: '2006-12-21 20:37:05'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Bringhurst actually talks about the asterisk in <em>[[Elements of Typographic
    Style|Elements]]</em>. If i'm not mistaken, he states that 6 points are more mechanical
    and fitting to "modern" styles and the 5 pointed version is more orgainic, fitting
    for calligraphic forms.
  created: '2006-12-21 20:41:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I'll vote with Yoda :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-21 20:43:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Plenty of <A HREF=\"http://typophile.com/smalltalk/\">smalltalk</A> potential
    in this thread...\r\n\r\n\"Excuse me, I'm rushing to teach the next workshop on
    hand tuning five pointed asterix grayscale bitmaps\""
  created: '2006-12-21 20:54:16'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Well, I\u2019d vote for 6 pointed, since it\u2019s easier to hint
    in TrueType, in very small display sizes. </cite>\r\n\r\nIhad wondered about this
    but then I saw you they did 5 pts in Myriad & I wasn't so sure. Can you give an
    example? \r\n\r\nI had a quick go looking at who does what: \r\n\r\n6: Univers,
    FranklinG, Interstate, Udo, Petras Script\r\n5: Quadraat Sans, Legato, Lutz Headline,
    Meta, News Gothic, Ronnia, Tiptoe Toy, Azdindenz, Wunderlich, Clan,\r\n\r\nAs
    much as you can draw conclusions there seem to be exceptions. Maybe it's just
    my skewed sample set but there seem to be far more 5 than 6... And newer fonts
    seem to favor 5 points. Looking at petras script made me skeptical about Bringhursts'
    point since it is far easier to make a 3 stroke hash than to make a star by hand..."
  created: '2006-12-21 20:57:32'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: who said calligraphy was about what's easy?
  created: '2006-12-21 20:59:07'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: <cite>easy</cite>Perhaps, but what is more likely or natural? I am still having
    trouble imagining a 5 pointed asterisk being made by a calligrapher except in
    imitation of type. Maybe I am just not seeing something I aught to. I think Bringhurst's
    point may have been a theoretical and aesthetic one rather than a literal one.
    What do you thin?
  created: '2006-12-21 21:04:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: My take or RB's comment is that 5 is more common in nature - you know core
    of an apple, petals on a flower - that kind of thing. I could be completely wrong...
  created: '2006-12-21 23:13:34'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: That sounds right - and six is more man made etc. The classic 20th century
    contrast.
  created: '2006-12-22 00:03:43'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'I guess i just associate the 5 with the ultimate caligraphic serif: Palatino.'
  created: '2006-12-22 00:38:37'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: Thanks for the smalltalk generator - I didn't know it existed - but I think
    it explains how some people choose their topics around... LOL
  created: '2006-12-22 03:06:14'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>five pointed asterix </em>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/asterix_4010.gif]\r\n\r\n\"Ils
    sont fous ces typographes!\"\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-22 04:08:16'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em> Ah! J'aime Asterix et ses amis!</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps it's a factor of
    age, but I remember learning to draw two \"stars\" as a child: one was the one-two-three
    separate lines forming a six-pointed hash, the other the one-two-three-four-five,
    all connected.  If one connected the points of the latter (and was good at drawing
    the initial form), one could create a pentagram, with all the potential danger
    therein."
  created: '2006-12-22 04:28:29'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">five pointed asterix \r\n\r\nHa, only Mark would have the Gaul to point
    out my typo ;-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-22 05:02:15'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "There is no \"true\" answer? This is why type design rules.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-12-22 12:09:12'
- author:
    name: track and kern
  body: I remember reading a intesring article a long while back about the Asterisk
    and it's variant designs dependent on the number of points. From what I remember,
    it has a lot to do with current cultural trends, and also more specifically to
    cultural normatives of different societies around the world. Depending on were
    you are, I think the prefferred number of points varies.
  created: '2006-12-23 20:41:27'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: So, when making a 5 pointed asterisk, which direction do you prefer to point
    it? One can rotate the angle of a 6 pointed one too, but somehow it seems to matter
    more with 5 points, at least as I look at it.
  created: '2006-12-23 22:34:06'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: All of the 5 pointed I have seen so far are star-like with one point straight
    up unless they were italic or oblique. In the italic they are rotated. In the
    oblique they are ergh.... obliqued. Let me know if you find a font that diverges
    from this please - I would be interested.
  created: '2006-12-24 02:05:07'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Eben, I already decide to make one just to retort. Will post more later.\r\n\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2006-12-24 03:46:35'
- author:
    name: track and kern
  body: This is a forum to discuss typography; not one where members should attempt
    to boost page rankings with html signatures.
  created: '2006-12-25 04:28:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I was confused - post retracted.\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-25 16:03:22'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Let me know if you find a font that diverges from this please - I would
    be interested.</em>\r\n\r\ndid you even look at Palatino?"
  created: '2006-12-25 17:45:33'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I did just now! And it seems that Choz will be too late to 'retort'. He could
    're-retort' however. How are you feelining about Palatino these days Paul?
  created: '2006-12-25 21:32:30'
- author:
    name: mmilo
    picture: 111136
  body: "Both Minion and MVB Magnolia also have a five pointed asterisks with a slight
    rotation. It seems to me that there aren't any hard and fast rules for how many
    points an asterisk should have, Horley Old Style for instance uses an 8 pointed
    asterisk.\r\n\r\nI personally find an odd number of points more aesthetically
    pleasing, while an even amount seems to be more natural seeing as most people
    would create an asterisk with two or more crossing strokes when writing."
  created: '2006-12-26 15:40:34'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>How are you feelining about Palatino these days</em>\r\n\r\ni've always
    liked Palatino. In fact, it's embedded in my subconciousness so deeply, that when
    i tried to draw a lower-case for a serif face i was working on, it came out looking
    quite a bit like palatino without my intending it to."
  created: '2006-12-29 20:07:45'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: 'My earlier comment about 6 points being easier to hint than 5 was meant in
    jest, BTW. Any design can be well hinted, and if the effort is put into it, the
    results will be great no matter which design is used to start. '
  created: '2007-01-15 20:25:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fr_4697.png]\r\nThe design of the asterisk
    may be related to the \"f\" -- at least, that is always a concern of mine, as
    it is the trickiest combination. Also, how the asterisk fits after r, v, w, and
    y can have some bearing."
  created: '2007-01-16 07:45:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I hadn't thought of that Nick. I can see how the five point could be helpful
    there.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-22 16:42:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Nick, Yes, - very nice. Thank You!
  created: '2007-01-22 20:37:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Another combination to consider is the double asterisk, traditionally a common
    usage.\r\nVertically symmetrical asterisks, however many points, tend to touch
    points when doubled, so this may be another reason for the slightly rotated asterisks
    in many fonts."
  created: '2007-01-22 20:46:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Interesting. Yeah, I have not seen a double asterisk in a long time. Library
    Cards had them I think...
  created: '2007-01-22 20:54:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I had some jobs years ago where they strung as many as 4 in a row instead
    of using superior figures for footnotes.  That was a case of one strange editor's
    proclivities though.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-22 20:57:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Reference marks in order of use:\r\n\r\n* asterisk\r\n\u2020 dagger  \r\n\u2021
    double dagger   \r\n\xA7 section\r\n|| parallel\r\n\xB6 paragraph\r\n[<em>'printer's
    fist'</em>] index\r\n*** asterism\r\n\r\nOrder varies slightly according to sources.
    You can see why superior figures replaced this system. But what a great make-work
    project for idle characters, and how quaint!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-22 21:56:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I sure can Nick!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-22 22:22:06'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I have a soft spot for section marks.
  created: '2007-01-22 23:08:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "So does the Federal Register Eben.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-22 23:11:49'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: What is the 'federal register'? A Newspaper? Or an actual federal document
    of some type?
  created: '2007-01-22 23:40:40'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: "Eben, if you're not joking, see http://www.gpoaccess.gov/fr/index.html\r\n\r\n\"Published
    by the Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration
    (NARA), the Federal Register is the official daily publication for rules, proposed
    rules, and notices of Federal agencies and organizations, as well as executive
    orders and other presidential documents.\""
  created: '2007-01-23 01:11:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben,\r\nSomeone from Athens just told you exactly what it is :-)\r\n\r\nYasou
    RC!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-23 02:06:37'
- author:
    name: rcc
    picture: 112031
  body: "Yasou to you too, Chris! And, albeit quite belated, my sincere best wishes
    for many happy returns on your birthday, which I trust was nothing short of punderful
    &mdash; with no asterisks required.\r\n\r\nRCC"
  created: '2007-01-23 03:32:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL! Thanks RC!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-23 12:40:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nice thread (thanks Simon for the heads-up).\r\n\r\nSurely the number of
    points -and the orientation- depend on the font. To me a Didone likes 6, vertical.
    In my own fonts I tend to use a 5, upside down; the latter because the thing needs
    help doing its job (getting attention). Sometimes an off-kilter one makes most
    sense. I can even see a 4 making sense - maybe with strongly flaring ends, like
    that German cross - what's it called again? Hmmm, how 'about a 3?\r\n\r\nThe x-height
    of the font affects these decisions too: when it's big the asterisk can/should
    be bigger too, which makes a sixer less problematic (in terms of clotting), and
    reduces the need to make it ask for extra attention (allowing it to be right-side-up).\r\n\r\n>
    six is more man made\r\n\r\nHmmm, snowflakes? Some flowers are sixers too.\r\n\r\n>
    The design of the asterisk may be related to the \u201Cf\u201D\r\n\r\nGood point.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    just like there's an asterism, we should have a special thing for two asterisks
    - maybe something where they lock together nicely.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-04 16:47:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hmmm...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tristerix_6285.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-04 16:56:54'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>just like there\u2019s an asterism, we should have a special thing
    for two asterisks</cite>\r\n\r\nThere is: \u2051 (Unicode 2051)"
  created: '2010-01-04 17:35:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Oh.\r\nHas anybody made one - I mean beyond two adjacent asterisks?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-04 17:49:48'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hrant, that three-point thing is cool!\r\n\r\n<cite>\"maybe with strongly
    flaring ends, like that German cross\"</cite>\r\nThis? \r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iron_Cross"
  created: '2010-01-04 18:22:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yup, that's the one.\r\nIt would be just the thing in some cases.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-04 18:33:41'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Ha, there are some fun threads here :)\r\nI prefer five points, rotated like
    Nick's example above:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AsterisksBM_5396.gif]\r\nThis
    thread has made me realise that I need to pay a little more attention to making
    the asterisks fit the fonts. Punctuation actually takes quite some work to get
    right."
  created: '2010-01-04 19:37:22'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: And speaking of which, MS Character Design Standards seems to omit the asterisk,
    sadly. Sizewise, I'd like to know what general practice is. Anyone?
  created: '2010-01-07 21:22:35'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: My perception is that the asterisk used to be six points almost universally
    - and five-pointed asterisks entered into common visibility with Prestige Elite
    and certain other IBM Selectric typewriter styles. It was only in the phototypesetter
    era that the asterisk stopped being a sort, and started to have matching designs
    for different typefaces, leading to the five-pointed asterisk as being considered
    more appropriate for some faces (I think, for example, without checking, that
    Stone and Lucida would use five-pointed asterisks).
  created: '2010-01-08 09:57:10'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "I too will be reworking an asterisk or two having read this. Thanks\r\n\r\nAndrew"
  created: '2010-01-09 12:04:49'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I just noticed talk about combining multiple asterisks and Nick's post on
    the order in which the reference marks should be used according to the old-fashioned
    system. This leads me to wonder why there hasn't been such hierarchy in the asterisk
    itself, like so:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Asterisks_4974.jpg]\r\n\r\nForgive
    the ugly design. I just wanted to try this out without wasting too much time on
    the design. I imagined the asterisk transforming from a bullet into a proper asterisk,
    so the more points are added, the more the symbol takes the shape of an asterisk
    rather than a bullet. That's why the asterisks are different sizes, because I
    imagined it starting as a black dot which then spreads and as more white space
    gets into the black shape, the black becomes more defined and sharper as you go
    up in the series.\r\n\r\nI came to realize the second symbol in the series is
    very hard to make look good and the bullet is a bad idea as it could be confused
    with punctuation. A series going from 3 points to 7 does make some sense to me
    though. I'm not suggesting this is a better system than using superscript numbers
    for footnotes, but I like the idea of incorporating this system into one of my
    typefaces."
  created: '2014-08-01 02:27:46'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: http://typophile.com/node/65861
  created: '2014-08-01 02:31:09'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Incidentally, not only am I very much used to six-pointed asterisks from
    most traditional typefaces, but the five-pointed asterisk has one very distracting
    association to me.\r\n\r\nI can't see one without thinking of it as an APL exponentiation
    operator."
  created: '2014-08-01 04:05:07'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: Riccardo, I still very much like the idea of a black blot slowly growing and
    taking form of an asterisk, but I must admit your system is clearer and more aesthetic.
    Very nice thread in general. Thanks for the link.
  created: '2014-08-01 04:57:11'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Thank you. I would be interested in seeing how your proposal work in running
    text sizes.\r\nAnyway, for all the reasons listed in that thread, I still think
    it would be a feature worth implementing."
  created: '2014-08-01 12:51:07'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: Yes, I will give it a serious shot sometime soon when doing one for my Baran
    typeface. It's a nice feature to implement. Although, I have been wondering how
    to script that feature. Is it possible at all to script Stylistic Alternates for
    superscript numbers? I think that might be an elegant solution if it's possible.
  created: '2014-08-01 18:24:05'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "The only problem I could see in your solution is that it would generate confusion
    if someone wanted to use this kind of notation marks alongside more traditional
    numbers and the font is switched to something which don\u2019t support it."
  created: '2014-08-02 17:03:20'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: I consider it to be a nice fall-back though. It's perhaps not the worst to
    have to distinguish between two footnotes with each double number you see in the
    text if the font is being replaced. Though, I agree it's something worth to consider.
  created: '2014-08-03 15:45:14'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Asterisks with a variable number of petals are certainly an interesting idea,
    even if I suspect it is not likely to catch on.\r\n\r\nI'm quite familiar with
    the traditional *\u2020\u2021\xA7\u2016\xB6 sequence, having seen it in many books.\r\n\r\nUsually,
    the convention I've seen is that those symbols are used for footnotes, while superscript
    numbers are used for references.\r\n\r\nIf a text is mathematical, or refers to
    isotopes a lot using the mass number as superscript and atomic number as subscript
    notation, or for other reasons superscript numbers or letters would lead to confusion,
    what other options might there be?\r\n\r\nOne thing might be to use as superscripts
    the letters of an alphabet not often used in mathematics. The Hebrew alphabet
    comes to mind. Then there's Armenian or Georgian; one could even use the Japanese
    <em>katakana</em> syllabary, or the Chinese <em>Zhuyin Fuhao</em> or <em>bopomofo</em>
    alphabet.\r\n\r\nAsterisks with different numbers of petals might not create enough
    new symbols, so why not also add to the dagger and double dagger a triple dagger
    (easily confused with a 1401 group mark, admittedly... I can find \u29FB as a
    Unicode character, but not the vertical version).\r\n\r\nEven without new symbols,
    one could have the sequence *, \u2020, \u2021, \xA7, \u2016, \xB6, **, \u2020\u2020,
    \ \u2021\u2021,  \xA7\xA7,  \u2016\u2016, \xB6\xB6, *\u2020, *\u2021, *\xA7, *\u2016,
    *\xB6, \u2020*, \u2020\u2021, \u2020\xA7, \u2020\u2016, \u2020\xB6,  \u2021*,
    \ \u2021\u2020,  \u2021\xA7... so a limited symbol repertoire need not be a problem.
    Note the sequence - first single symbols, then double symbols, then pairs of unlike
    symbols in a counting/lexicographic order."
  created: '2014-08-04 08:14:17'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: 'I think the thread linked above would be a better place to continue the discussion.
    And, regarding the triple dagger: http://typophile.com/node/65762'
  created: '2014-08-04 08:39:51'
- author:
    name: Birdseeding
    picture: 121722
  body: One potential problem with the petal-count asterisk is that human minds (studies
    have shown) are only able to inuitively percieve numbers up to four; after that
    we start counting. So it could be disruptive to the intuitive reading experience.
    (I'm thinking with shapes at least five and six sides/spokes are probably also
    intuitively seeable, but after that? Can we automatically tell the difference
    between a heptagon and a nonegon without counting?)
  created: '2014-08-04 08:53:12'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "If I recall correctly, more than counting, we tend to visually assemble elements
    in groups of four or fewer. So, when the \u201Cpetals\u201D\u2019 count goes up,
    it could make sense to compose the glyph out of slightly parted pairs or triplets
    (or maybe even four-elements groups).\r\nI don\u2019t remember where (if here
    on Typophile or elsewhere), but some time ago I read something about the same
    challenge in placing the dots on the faces of a six-sided die."
  created: '2014-08-04 10:58:54'
date: '2006-12-21 08:17:50'
node_type: forum
title: The asterisk

---
