---
author:
  name: Reed Reibstein
  picture: 111393
body: "Photoshop project manager John Nack released a picture of the new Adobe branding
  system for its software icons on his <a href=http://blogs.adobe.com/jnack/2006/12/whats_up_with_the_icon.html>blog</a>.
  He did this because of the many criticisms that erupted when he revealed that the
  Photoshop CS3 and Bridge 2.0 icons were not placeholders, but rather the planned
  icons.\r\n\r\nIn the post, guest writer Ryan Hicks mentions that [[Robert Slimbach]]
  was heavily involved in the design of the icons, lending a custom version of his
  upcoming typeface Gauge for the lettering. While the icons are not an ideal place
  to get a feel for the typeface, I thought that some around here would like what
  I presume is a \"sneak peek\" at Gauge.\r\n\r\nHere's the color wheel of new Adobe
  icons (partial key: Ps=Photoshop, Ai=Illustrator, ID=InDesign, Dw=Dreamweaver, AE=After
  Effects, Br=Bridge, LR=Lightroom):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/adobe
  color wheel_6281.jpg]\r\n\r\nI'm not sure yet if I like them or not. I'm tending
  toward appreciating the simplicity and emphasis on type, but I did like the feathers/flowers/butterflies
  of yesteryear."
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: What does the "black hole" in the middle represent? ;-)
  created: '2006-12-21 01:12:10'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: The amount of money it will take to buy all of it?  ;-)
  created: '2006-12-21 01:31:31'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "I, too, assumed that the new Photoshop and Bridge icons were placeholders.\r\n\r\nI
    think this is a big mistake. To use text as the primary element in the design
    of an icon betrays a fundamental misunderstanding of what an icon is."
  created: '2006-12-21 01:36:49'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Well, I'm actually glad the feathers/flowers/butterflies are replaced by
    something comprehensive.\r\nSince the main goal of icons is to convey a message
    in a quick and easy way, the last icons didn't really do their job too well, in
    my opinion. There was no r\xE9al way of telling the difference between the programs,
    other then learn which icon is which program. But that defeats the whole purpose
    of an icon, I would say.\r\nI do think the new icons do that a lot better. These
    almost work like file-extentions, thus making them easier to recognise. And of
    course that all programs are now integrated in a more uniform shape, also contributes
    to recognition.\r\n\r\nIf I <strong>like</strong> the icons, easthetically speaking,
    I'm not sure yet."
  created: '2006-12-21 01:38:54'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "I like 'em, they're streamlined, I've never found myself wishing that an
    icon was more detailed, I assume too there's a bit of a joke in there about the
    different 'elements' of the creative suite being as essential to a PC as the scientific
    elements are to the known world. I like that too.\r\n\r\n--N"
  created: '2006-12-21 03:10:11'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I totally dig the new system; I thought the old icons were cool, but never
    could figure out the whole shell/feather system. That said, the new ones going
    to look really lame if the whole web 2.0 design trend implodes next fall and Adobe's
    icons are just Myriad over squares that somebody hit with \u201CRender Lighting.\u201D\r\n\r\nAnd
    in the long run, I don't care what the icons look like, I just want a version
    of Indesign where my font sizes don't suddenly switch to 9.8797565574."
  created: '2006-12-21 03:22:36'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: Nicholas, actually, the guest writer on John Nack's blog denied that the icons
    are supposed to be like the periodic table, saying that if they wanted to make
    the connection, they would have made it more explicit (and not used a mixture
    of lowercase and small caps for the second letter). Although Wikipedia's Adobe
    Bridge article makes the reference to bromine.
  created: '2006-12-21 04:07:40'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Ah, that's a shame, thanks for the info though. \r\n\r\nHowever, for something
    that is not meant to remind of the periodic table, the two letter designations,
    and the plain colour-coded boxes seem to do a good job of doing just that. Perhaps
    it's subconcious.\r\n\r\n--N"
  created: '2006-12-21 05:19:45'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I immediately thought \"periodic table,\" but I like the simplicity of it.
    I was never a fan of the more abstract recent icons. Pretty, but not very helpful
    in identifying the application in the dock. The old icons (Botticelli Venus for
    AI, eye for PS) were okay. The new scheme seems like a variation on Macromedia's
    scheme (round, single color icons with a letter or two). Come to think of it,
    Microsoft has been using the letter icon idea forever for Office (though they
    are consistently unattractive, in my opinion).\r\n\r\nI find that I look for color
    first when looking for an icon in the dock. I've had trouble finding the iTunes
    icon since it went from green to blue. There are a lot of blue icons in my dock.
    Having a nice, big, easy to read letter helps a lot for me, more so than shape
    or other details. So, I think I am going to like the new Adobe icons, even though
    they are rather plain."
  created: '2006-12-21 16:00:24'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Mark, If you prefer the green icon for iTunes, just find an older version
    (backup'd somewhere, presumably\u2026), do a Get Info, select the small icon in
    the left upper corner of the Info-window, and copy. Paste into same spot of the
    new iTunes Info-window. Voila: a green iTunes icon in your dock (after logging
    out and in, I guess)."
  created: '2006-12-21 16:42:45'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I have actually grown to like the new iTunes icon. But, at first I hated
    it and went searching for a something I thought was better.\r\n\r\nVia Interfacelift:\r\n<a
    href=\"http://interfacelift.com/icons-mac/details.php?id=762\">iTunes Variations</a>
    \r\n<a href=\"http://interfacelift.com/icons-mac/details.php?id=1859\">VinylTunes</a>"
  created: '2006-12-21 17:15:22'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "Somebody's already taken this to its logical extreme:\r\n\r\nhttp://img392.imageshack.us/img392/2789/cs3toolbarop4.gif"
  created: '2006-12-21 18:04:00'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: That revision of the toolbox is just cruel. It does make you wonder if Adobe
    made the right design decision here.
  created: '2006-12-21 18:13:29'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "The big difference is that most designers really won't see most of the logos
    together in one place. And if there are only six or maybe ten Adobe apps in my
    dock, I think that I'll have an easier time telling them apart than I did when
    I had to look at an antenna, a butterfly, feathers, flowers, etc.\r\n\r\nI do
    wonder how much of this is the influence of the Macromedia designers who came
    into Adobe. This new set of icons bears much more similarity to Macromedia's simple
    circle and letter icons than it does to anything Adobe has ever done."
  created: '2006-12-21 19:16:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I just hate the flower-feather-butterfly nonsense. They make no sense in
    distinguishing the programs. If you already bought the program, you don't need
    senseless eye candy to resell it to yourself. You just want to know which damn
    program is which! I still have to mouseover and wait for the text to pop up to
    tell me what I am picking. I would far rather have the letters \"PS\", AI\", and
    \"ID\" than that rainbow razzmatazz of unintelligable schmaltz they use now. If
    you can't come up with an icon that communicates instantly then use acronyms.
    The old Pen, Brush, Book thing was way better anyway.  Take icon design out of
    the marketing department and give it to Human Interface Design professionals who
    might actually do it right!\r\n\r\n\r\nMerry Christmas, \r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS:
    Bah, Humbug :-)"
  created: '2006-12-21 19:31:37'
- author:
    name: offonoff
  body: "I actually like the icons. Got the periodic chart thing right off and like
    that they are color-grouped according to function. \r\n\r\nI was never fond of
    the butterfly, feather, flower thing and when they swapped color/hue on the butterfly
    and flower from CS to CS2 I wanted to string someone up by their toes. I can't
    tell you how many times I opened up Illustrator instead of ID and vice versa.
    \r\n\r\nBTW, new functions in Ps are great and I can't wait to see the new Is
    and Ai. ;)"
  created: '2006-12-21 19:35:31'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>I can\u2019t tell you how many times I opened up Illustrator instead
    of ID and vice versa.</em>\r\n\r\nSame here. Currently I think twice before hitting
    any of the icons."
  created: '2006-12-22 06:59:10'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: Because people have been mentioning how much they'd love to know what's new
    in InDesign CS3, I thought I'd remind everyone that when Quark 7 was released,
    Adobe revealed several of ID CS3's features, which are <a href=http://quarkvsindesign.com/articles/a1/features/2006/sneak-peek-indesign-cs3/>summarized
    at QuarkVsInDesign.com</a>. It is assumed that ID CS3 will have a similar interface
    to PS CS3. I would personally guess that Adobe will also add even more Photoshop-like
    functionality to ID, past the "Photoshop Effects" mentioned in the article, but
    that's just a guess. Of course, I'm sure that they saved the whizbangiest features
    for closer to the release date, so I'm still very excited to see what ID CS3 will
    offer (along with the new AI).
  children:
  - author:
      name: mjpatrick
      picture: 111908
    body: "My impressions:\r\n\r\nI have tried to keep an open mind, but I immediately
      thought of the periodic table when I first saw this, and can't get it out of
      my head. \r\n\r\nI have to admit I am not crazy about the icons. I understand
      they are parts of a whole with the color wheel concept, but individually there's
      really nothing to them other than type over differently colored gradations.
      They do nothing to tell me what the software does, and although now I have that
      understanding, it's confusing to the new kid on the block. Also, I have at times
      up to 6 Adobe icons in line across my dock, and I really don't want them to
      be quite so uniform and text-based.\r\n\r\nI do like the concept from a simplicity
      standpoint, also because it's a complete 180 from what they have been doing
      for the icons in the past, but it's too far removed. Adobe is well known for
      its polished, user-friendly interfaces. This just seems like a step backwards
      to me.\r\n\r\nI would at least work in some simple art that somehow gives a
      slight hint at what the program actually does."
    created: '2006-12-22 12:14:58'
  created: '2006-12-22 10:35:03'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: I think they're boring. I'd prefer icons over type, but as far as functionality
    goes, they are an improvement. Most of you all have echoed my same problems with
    the arbitrary shape system. Nice on a box, not so nice on your dock.
  created: '2006-12-22 20:04:54'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: Miguel, your avatar/icon is genius.
  created: '2006-12-22 20:20:43'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: Thanks. I felt the old one needed a bit of re-branding too.
  created: '2006-12-22 22:12:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Can''t wait to see more of Gauge as some of the glyphs shown in the chart
    are intriguing, kind of bringing Myriad into the nineties! Having an almost vertical
    final stroke in a splayed cap ''M'' is unconventional.   '
  created: '2006-12-22 22:16:24'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>kind of bringing Myrad into the nineties!</em>\r\n\r\nthe nineties? too
    bad he didn't bring it all the way up to the naughties!"
  created: '2006-12-22 22:25:09'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">the nineties? too bad he didn\u2019t bring it all the way up to the naughties!\r\n\r\nI
    don't think that's possible as I couldn't find his MySpace site ;-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-22 22:42:04'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "The right-most stem of the M is not that upright. Here's a better look.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ms_big_5052.png]"
  created: '2006-12-22 23:28:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't know Miguel, I think your avatar would have looked mighty fine in
    Calouste :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-22 23:55:01'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: I'll change it to Calouste as soon as I design a Bold weight of it ;^)
  created: '2006-12-22 23:58:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "NOW You're TALKIN' :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-23 00:00:17'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "I think we could simply place the feather, flower and butterfly icon on the
    color square as a sort of middle-way. Dead simple yet true to the concept of icon.\r\n\r\nAside
    from the topic, Chris, I think you might fancy <A HREF=\"http://blog.veer.com/archives/001236.html\">this.</A>"
  created: '2006-12-24 07:03:14'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Steve Peter wrote:\r\n<cite>Somebody\u2019s already taken this to its logical
    extreme:\r\nhttp://img392.imageshack.us/img392/2789/cs3toolbarop4.gif</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    question is: Does an icon, or do icons, convey the message? Thinking of Illustrator's
    OpenType icons, I am happy that a written explanation pops up when I touch them
    with the mouse ... As to the logical extreme -- indeed. Funny that you present
    a PhotoShop toolbar. Still I haven't internalized the meaning of each toolbar
    icon and find myself searching for a particular function quite often.\r\n\"A picture
    is worth a thousand words\" is a myth. Whether highly simplified icon or two-letter
    identifier -- you have to <cite>learn</cite> what their meaning is.\r\n\r\nThe
    only thing I don't understand about the Adobe icons is why it is sometimes UC+SC
    and sometimes UC+LC.\r\n\r\nMiguel -- who is your employer? Maybe you should change
    your name.&nbsp;&nbsp;:))"
  created: '2006-12-24 07:34:54'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Touch\xE9."
  created: '2006-12-25 00:47:24'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>The only thing I don\u2019t understand about the Adobe icons is why
    it is sometimes UC+SC and sometimes UC+LC.</em>\r\n\r\nThe logic behind it is
    more or less simple and consistent: UC+SC is used in compound names \u2014 FreeHand
    (FH), PageMaker (PM), ColdFusion (CF), InDesign (ID), etc. \u2014, and UC+LC is
    used in single word names \u2014 Flash (Fl), Director (Di), Flex (Fx), Premiere
    (Pr), Photoshop (Ps). Of course, there are exceptions like Illustrator (Ai) and
    GoLive (Gl), for example. And the rocket-arrow icon is <a href=\"http://labs.adobe.com/wiki/index.php/Apollo\">Apollo</a>.\r\n\r\n>
    <em>Miguel \u2014 who is your employer? Maybe you should change your name.  :))</em>\r\n\r\nUnfortunately
    I can't. The HB-1 Visa is under my \"old\" name ;^P\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-25 08:19:21'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Wait, I didn't get that it's just squares & letters... I thought that was
    a visual shorthard to help you see the color scheme - not an actual full blown
    icon model. I don't mean to be retrograde but that is just too simple for me.
    I don't love it. I mean, your selling to creatives... and you tell them that Myriad
    is enough? What kind of message is that? I hope something more comes along. Soon.
    I would settle for the feathers & so on. At least let them have different shapes!
    Color & letters is not enough.
  created: '2006-12-25 08:21:37'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>The logic behind it is more or less simple and consistent</cite>\r\n\r\nAh,
    I see.\r\nThanks for the Apollo link, I haven't noticed this so far!"
  created: '2006-12-25 13:17:00'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: 'Eben, in case you missed it in my first post, the typeface used for all the
    icons is actually Slimbach''s work-in-progress Gauge, which is partly why I posted
    about the icons here. I would have assumed that they were in Myriad if Ryan Davis''
    [EDIT: Make that Ryan <em>Hicks''</em>] post didn''t mention it. But the typographic
    features won''t placate you or many other disgruntled people. From what I can
    tell, the Adobe team is sticking to their guns on this one, so I wouldn''t expect
    any major changes for CS3.'
  created: '2006-12-27 07:31:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks for the correction! \r\n\r\nAnd about the icons: I could be wrong!
    Looking down at my Mac menu the icons are all small - I have lots of apps in the
    doc. Maybe this method will sort these icons from the clutter. But I do think
    that not availling yourself of shape might be a mistake in icon design. And it
    will punish people who use too many of the Adobe apps because the distinctiveness
    of the approach will be diluted. 3-4 icons like this if they are in contrasting
    colors might be fine but if you had 10... maybe not so good. They may know that
    the average user has 5 or something. And you know - we can change the icon in
    OSX if we want to.\r\n\r\nGague looks super spiff."
  created: '2006-12-27 07:50:34'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Of course, there are exceptions \"\r\n\r\nHence the goofiness of it all.\r\n\r\nHas
    anyone figured out if the colors mean anything at all? I can't figure out why
    FH is opposite Ai and Gl is opposite DW.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-27 15:27:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">rather plain\r\n\r\nMark's observation I think pinpoints what is the weakness
    in an otherwise an excellent design. Just a bit too plain, too cold for the brief.
    Given that the programs are for visual creativity, it seems to me they ought to
    have a little more 'juice'. \r\n\r\nMaybe Carl's new Beorcana would help for the
    font :) "
  created: '2006-12-27 16:28:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I'll gladly take the plain look any day because now thw icons will actually
    function instead of just be glitz.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-27 16:45:03'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "So Chris- you think they will be functional for ya. You are a fan. Is that
    right?\r\n\r\nWon't you get lost in all the colored squares? How many apps will
    you have? \r\n\r\nWhat about the color blind? They have only the letters to distinguish
    the icons...  Then again, maybe they will be unlikely to be using design apps
    anyway... Well, that's a bit hasty too. But I suppose from a marketing point of
    view that's probably not their core audience to say the least!\r\n\r\nI would
    still have preffered some shape divergence too. Maybe I should start mocking something
    up. I even have a few ideas... If I only had a copy of Beorcana I could start
    making alternative icons with PANACHE right away! :-) Anybody interested in alt
    icons here?"
  created: '2006-12-27 17:05:44'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>What about the color blind? They have only the letters to distinguish
    the icons\u2026 Then again, maybe they will be unlikely to be using design apps
    anyway\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nI run into a lot of color-impaired guys at design school,
    and once had to fix all of a guy's colors the night before a project was due.
    Given how many designers who can see color suck at using it, I doubt that even
    being totally color-blind is a big deal.\r\n\r\n<cite>If I only had a copy of
    Beorcana I could start making alternative icons with PANACHE right away! :-) Anybody
    interested in alt icons here?</cite>\r\n\r\nGet me a copy of Beorcana and I'll
    help ;) Hell, I'll do it just to stay busy for the next three weeks\u2014I was
    planning to do nothing but read over break, but trying to read all these big crazy
    design books I got for x-mas is killing my neck because I have to sit them on
    a desk or table and hang my head over to read them! Maybe I should just tilt my
    drawing table way up and clamp them to it..."
  created: '2006-12-27 17:17:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The marketing battle is long over at the point of using icons. The color
    blind could not \"read\" the prior incarnation of feather butterfly stuff either--nobody
    could. I have a string of apps that cover the entire width of my dock on my 23\"
    screen. That is why I want something that quickly reads instead of a parade of
    panache putzery. Put all the marketing pizazz on the packaging and ads if it sells
    for you, but once I have already bought the damn thing, I don't want runnaway
    rainbow madness, explosion in an icon factory, visual pollution getting in the
    way of just using the software. Maybe some third party will come up with \"Skins\"
    for those who really can't live without the bling--for me, I'll take the plain
    letters over the present system any time.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: mjpatrick
      picture: 111908
    body: "<cite>Put all the marketing pizazz on the packaging and ads if it sells
      for you, but once I have already bought the damn thing, I don\u2019t want runnaway
      rainbow madness, explosion in an icon factory, visual pollution getting in the
      way of just using the software. Maybe some third party will come up with \u201CSkins\u201D
      for those who really can\u2019t live without the bling\u2014for me, I\u2019ll
      take the plain letters over the present system any time.</cite>\r\n\r\nAlthough
      I wish I could be more in agreement, I think this is well said. I couldn't help
      but smile when I saw the \"runaway rainbow madness\" and explosion/pollution
      descriptions. :-)\r\n\r\nI was never thrilled with the CS/CS2 icons. I assumed
      the feather icon for Photoshop CS2 was a vague reference to feathered selections,
      but that was the closest connection to what the software does that I could make
      with any of the icons.\r\n\r\nI do miss the Venus/Eye icons, as well as the
      collage imagery on the splash screens that served as an extended vision to the
      images in the icons (and in my opinion, gave hints as to what one can accomplish
      with the program). Of course most people here have a very strong understanding
      of what the tools do and don't need that reminder, but I thought they were imaginative,
      inspired and quite frankly fun nonetheless.\r\n\r\nThe new icons won't stop
      me from upgrading, by any means. :)\r\n"
    created: '2006-12-30 04:04:05'
  created: '2006-12-27 17:25:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">glitz\r\n\r\nHey, Chris, I said 'a bit' too plain. I wasn't asking for Las
    Vegas, but just a bit more differentiation, a bit more complexity. \r\n\r\n'Guage'
    looks terrific, but just a few of its letters on a colored square, even with the
    gradient, seems a bit bland, and to beg for just a bit more spice, IMHO. \r\n\r\nBy
    the way the MS Office icons work better in respect of striking a good balance
    between simplicity and variety--though they are a bit clunky, as Mark noted.  \r\n\r\nEdit:
    Looking again, I think maybe the feeling of bareness comes from putting two letters
    in a square, which puts a lot of space above and below. If the background were
    instead a slightly shorter than square rectangle in 'landscape' orientation it
    might help.  I think there may be some optical illusion effect going on here that
    needs correcting. The perfect square with the gradient may look taller than it
    is, and need to be slightly shortened to look right--look less bare a frame for
    the text. "
  created: '2006-12-27 17:27:04'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I agree with dezcom - I like this system and have hated the icons since CS1
    - I don't need symbols, just clarity.\r\n\r\nOnce they changed the venerable Venus,
    etc. icons I couldn't tell these things apart.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-12-27 17:30:54'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Jumping on the bandwagon to agree that I could never tell the feather from
    the butterfly from the flower and this will make it simpler, a la Microsoft Office.\r\n\r\nI
    of course thought of the periodic table and think they're being a bit disingenuous
    to deny that connection/inspiration. My only beef is I don't really get the icons
    positioning on the color wheel - and how they connect to one another. I had no
    idea they had this many products to begin with.\r\n\r\nAre they really gonna stick
    with Golive now that they bought Dreamweaver? Does anybody use it? Also, I'm a
    bit bothered by Ai for Illustrator. Of course I get it - that's the file appendage,
    but it seems inconsistent with the others. Shouldn't it be Il? Or would that be
    confusing in a sans serif?\r\n\r\nFont looks a lot like Meta to me.\r\n\r\nAnd
    all this said, I wish they'd come up with one thing and stick with it!"
  created: '2006-12-27 21:53:02'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Rumor has it GoLive is going to become PageMaker to Dreamweaver.
  created: '2006-12-27 22:29:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Actually, it reminds me much more of the old Munsell Color System model that
    I remember from design school. This is a better fit than the periodic table visually
    but the abreviations give it that element like feel.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/munsell_set_4332.jpg]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-27 23:27:16'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Lose the photo-surrealism of CS2 but keep the feather, flower, butterfly,
    etc. symbols, done in white over colored background. What do you think?\r\n\r\nNice
    compromise between both point of views, IMO."
  created: '2006-12-28 01:59:54'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>My only beef is I don\u2019t really get the icons positioning on the
    color wheel - and how they connect to one another.</cite>\r\n\r\nAgreed.\r\n\r\n<cite>Are
    they really gonna stick with Golive now that they bought Dreamweaver? Does anybody
    use it?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe only people who used GoLive were either not competent
    enough at web design to realize what a turd GoLive is, or just too cheap to buy
    Dreamweaver after getting GoLive as a freebie when they paid for Illustrator,
    Indesign, and Photoshop.\r\n\r\n<cite>Also, I\u2019m a bit bothered by Ai for
    Illustrator.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think that they did that because it's a common abbreviation
    used outside of Adobe already. I see it here and there in print and online.\r\n\r\n<cite>Rumor
    has it GoLive is going to become PageMaker to Dreamweaver.</cite>\r\n\r\nCare
    to elaborate? I've never used Pagemaker, so I don't get the reference.\r\n\r\nI
    really can't understand why Adobe wouldn't just ditch GoLive. When I've tried
    using it GoLive felt more obtuse than XHTML/CSS is to begin with, and the code
    it generates is even nastier than the mess Dreamweaver turns out. Adobe should
    just buy Rapidweaver and re-brand it as GoLive CS3 so that CS users who don't
    want to mess with web coding can still have a nice app for churning out simple
    pages for hosting photos, portfolios, etc."
  children:
  - author:
      name: mjpatrick
      picture: 111908
    body: "<cite>The only people who used GoLive were either not competent enough
      at web design to realize what a turd GoLive is, or just too cheap to buy Dreamweaver
      after getting GoLive as a freebie when they paid for Illustrator, Indesign,
      and Photoshop.</cite>\r\n\r\nA full-time web design position I once held required
      that I use GoLive simply because that was the software the staff had been accustomed
      to using. I got the job after showing samples of content I had built previously
      using Dreamweaver.\r\n\r\nWhile GoLive was not my tool of choice (I preferred
      Dreamweaver for several reasons), using it was a requirement, and it met their
      needs just fine. It had nothing to do with any level of competency at web design
      or me being too cheap."
    created: '2006-12-30 03:21:04'
  created: '2006-12-28 02:07:06'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>The only people who used GoLive were\u2026 not competent enough at
    web design to realize what a turd GoLive is</cite>\r\n\r\nNot true. GoLive actually
    has superior site management and planning tools. I know a few designers who start
    their site in GoLive, then switch to Dreamweaver for the design. Things like external
    css styles are much easier to manage in GoLive.\r\n\r\nBut did they buy it for
    that? Nah. They use it because it came with Photoshop. Otherwise they would have
    stuck it out with Dreamweaver."
  created: '2006-12-28 02:31:22'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Why ditch a product that you can keep selling indefinitely?\r\n\r\nMM killed
    Freehand around version 9 but kept selling it for years. Seems that Adobe is going
    to continue that. "
  created: '2006-12-28 15:02:56'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "If you upgrade to CS2.3 Dreamweaver is part of the package. Basically I was
    simply saying that when InDesign hit, PageMaker become the little brother.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cs23upgrade_grab_4356.png]"
  created: '2006-12-28 21:34:14'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Do they still even make Pagemaker?
  created: '2006-12-28 22:13:51'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Why ditch a product that you can keep selling indefinitely?</cite>\r\n\r\nOk,
    now I get it. \r\n\r\n<cite>Do they still even make Pagemaker?</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    believe that Pagemaker is still sold for Windows and Solaris, but development
    ended years ago. The Mac version was pulled from the market because it didn't
    run right with under Classic mode in OS X."
  created: '2006-12-28 22:48:47'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Do they still even make Pagemaker?</em>\r\n\r\nI've seen the Mac version
    of 7.0 available for folks still running OS 9 -- granted, at our U cheap-shop,
    it's been in the discount bin for quite some time.  And I do know one of my regular
    printshop places still uses it from time to time."
  created: '2006-12-30 03:42:59'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Dear Robert Slimbach, \r\nIf you're reading this: Take me on as an apprentice.
    Between this typeface, Arno Pro, and all the rest, I figure you need to slow down
    and pass down your wisdom to the next generation. Don't let your knowledge disappear!
    Share it with me!\r\n\r\nOr write a book on typeface design and development. That
    would also be cool.\r\n\r\nThanks, \r\nDan\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-01 03:38:04'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Dear Robert Slimbach, [...] Take me on as an apprentice.</em>\r\n\r\nSorry
    Dan, that position is already taken. You'll have to wait for the next chance :)"
  created: '2007-01-01 11:17:10'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Yup, between Miguel and me, I think our type design apprenticeship slots
    are full right now.\r\n\r\nI'm just hoping Robert's back to work tomorrow so I
    can get a session of critiques in....\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-01-02 05:07:09'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Shucks. Had to try, didn't I?
  created: '2007-01-02 07:45:09'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Quark VS InDesign.com Launches Contest to Design Alternate Adobe Creative
    Suite 3 Icons\r\nhttp://quarkvsindesign.com/articles/a1/news/2007/quark-vs-indesigncom-launches-contest-to-design-alternate-adobe-creative-suite-3-icons/"
  created: '2007-02-15 22:10:19'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: Excellent.
  created: '2007-02-15 22:30:49'
- author:
    name: yokkk
  body: "allah belan\u0131z\u0131 versin ! :@ a.q. insan bi photoshopun fontunu koyar...\r\n\r\ngod
    give you BELA ... a.q. people one photoshop font koyar :D anlad\u0131n\u0131zm\u0131
    mallar.."
  created: '2008-09-25 01:02:21'
date: '2006-12-21 00:55:10'
node_type: forum
title: Adobe Icons (and Robert Slimbach)

---
