---
author:
  name: blank
body: "<a href=\"http://money.cnn.com/magazines/fsb/fsb_archive/2006/12/01/8395114/index.htm?postversion=2006121409\">CNN
  is reporting that on-demand book printing machines will be turning up in stores
  next year</a>, and will be able to reprint books with no/expired copyrights in Google
  books and the Open Copyright Alliance.\r\n\r\nI'm pretty excited about this\u2014think
  about all the classic, impossible-to-find type/bookmaking tomes that we'll be able
  to just order up and start reading! "
comments:
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Thanks James, more online readings on the preservation and persistence of
    the changing book at <em>reports</em> at : http://www.futureofthebook.com\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-23 15:10:33'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "I am excited about this idea for 15 years now and hope much that it will
    be a success.\r\n\r\nIt will turn into a really big thing if copyrighted books
    were made available that way, say scientific literature, and royalties instantly
    forwarded to publisher/author with each order.\r\n\r\nAlso, I am curious what
    a copy will look like! (Quality of printing and binding.) Or, in which data format
    books are provided -- as static layouts (PDF, scans), or can the purchaser select
    a different typeface, type size, margins? I think this technology will make it
    more clear that there needs to be a document format which serves both the screen
    and print -- i.e. as flexible as html (new text flow according to window size,
    or paper size) and typographically as sophisticated as PDF. The document would
    be the same, regardless of being presented on a small or big screen, or printed.
    But I bet this will remain a dream for the next 15 years to come.&nbsp;&nbsp;:)"
  created: '2006-12-23 15:14:12'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I am excited about this idea for 15 years now and hope much that it
    will be a success.</cite>\r\n\r\nI've been sharing your sentiments, albeit not
    for 15 years ;)\r\n\r\nI've also thought about future document formats and automated
    typesetting. It seems that with some (relatively) simple rules and limits; ie.
    a range of DIN page sizes, font size limits, and tagging words to prevent hyphenation,
    it won't be hard to pull this off. It's the sort of thing I think we can expect
    to come from Adobe over the next decade as Adobe enhances Flash and Flash replaces
    XHTML as the standard for web design. I expect that eventually Adobe will merge
    XML/XHTML, CSS, Flash, and PDF into some new uber-format. Maybe it's a bit much
    to expect this from Adobe, especially with Warnock and the other PARC guys on
    their way out the door, but the addition of new blood from Macromedia might light
    a fire under the collective butt over at Adobe HQ.\r\n\r\nHow cool would it be
    if we see a Google/Adobe merger, and get software that allows us to design for
    every format under the sun, and has instant access to nearly every piece of content
    in the universe? I'm really taking this offtopic fast..."
  created: '2006-12-23 15:37:25'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "[&nbsp;&nbsp;(this is <cite>really</cite> off topic now, so I put it into
    brackets)\r\n\r\nOh please, no Flash stuff ...\r\n\r\n<cite>Maybe it\u2019s a
    bit much to expect this from Adobe, especially with Warnock and the other PARC
    guys on their way out the door</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe it would have been too much
    even with Mr Warnock on board.\r\nIt is sad enough that advanced use of most applications
    requires expert users. I wonder where the InDesign is which allows merging design
    and content without much scripting abilities, by way of an interface which visualizes
    what is going on, so even designers who are afraid of anything technical want
    to use it. Take alone because it saves them time they need to populate, say, a
    voluminous book with texts and images. Design is highly conceptual (books, websites,
    both regarded as interfaces to what they convey), and this should be -- but is
    not -- reflected in the design tools. I don't ask for adding stuff on top of already
    huge apps; but for re-thinking the underlying conception, structure, and the interface
    which reflects them. (I used InDesign as an example since I work with it most
    of the time, but could have chosen any other application.)\r\n\r\n]"
  created: '2006-12-23 18:26:54'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Further evidence that I'm turning into an old grouch: there seems little
    or nothing positive about the \"potential\" for POD printing, and while others
    here have voiced a certain excited anticipation at the prospect, personally it
    finds me with a sense of impending doom. While the technology has, indeed, improved
    in the last few years, with POD we're talking toner, not ink, and even with the
    latest machines, simulated linescreen of any resolution still looks like a bunch
    of sloppy dots. Add to this the fact that any decent print requires super-smooth
    stock, yet most POD printers throw in the cheapest paper they can find, wrapped
    up with cheap glue in a poorly scored cover and physically the fate of the short-run
    book looks bleaker and bleaker.\r\n\r\nAdd to this the discussion above about
    on-the-fly font changes and now I'm feeling really queasy. Given the considerable
    time and skill required to flow a text smoothly, to balance the content and find
    the appropriate typographic voice, to carefully fit awkward line/word wraps, widows
    & orphans, images & captions, tables, etc., the thought of randomly picking a
    font and forcing it through a template to spit out a poorly printed, poorly bound,
    badly typeset bundle of cheap paper doesn't seem to me to present much to be excited
    about.\r\n\r\nToo many books are already designed and set by in-house staff who
    don't know anything about typography and don't have a clue how to utilize a decent
    page-layout application, who then hand the file off to an ever-growing print emporium
    that gives less and less attention to the product they're pumping out. And this
    will somehow be improved by trusting a glorified photocopier to typeset AND make
    the book?\r\n\r\nWhile the digitization of information is one thing (allowing
    access to 500 year old texts at the click of a button), I certainly wouldn't fool
    myself into thinking that a POD copy of such a thing is in any way a copy of that
    text; it would be, in fact, a shallow and lifeless clone. If what I want is to
    read a rare text, great, give me the text in a relatively neutral PDF, but please
    don't demean the thing by shoving it through a cookie-cutter and calling it a
    book."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Bruce
      picture: 112056
    body: "Jason, although I agree with much of what you are saying, I think there
      are examples of high production values in POD, just as there have been high
      and low values in traditional printing, typesetting, etc.\r\n\r\nMy first adventure
      with POD occurred last year. In 2004-2005 I developed a highly visual book with
      two authors who wanted to find the right publisher, but who did not want to
      submit a manuscript and a bunch of prints. They preferred to put the book into
      full design first and then shop that around to the publishers, because they
      felt it was the only way to ensure that their ideas would be properly understood.
      It is a complex subject, about the relationship between the built environment
      and our needs as humans. Authors are an architect and a psychiatric social worker.
      (http://www.amazon.com/People-Places-Connections-between-Landscape/dp/1931807450)\r\n\r\nThe
      solution was to design the book, and have 25 copies run off for them to send
      to prospective publishers. I had Acme Bookbinding (just outside Boston) do the
      work and although it was not as good as the final printed edition, it completely
      captured the feeling of the design. Syntax Antiqua type reproduced well and
      had the proper color. Photos were not super-sharp, but all the detail in them
      was perceptible and color balance quite good. The book was printed on Monadnock
      Astrolite alkaline pH uncoated paper, 100-lb basis, and all 25 copies were Smyth-sewn
      and bound in the same cloth that we would later use in the normal offset-printed
      edition. Jackets were also produced digitally and overlaminated. The result
      was very close in spirit to the final edition.\r\n\r\nSo I am not disagreeing
      with you on much of what you say, but I think in the hands of a designer who
      is willing to push hard for quality, and with staff and equipment who are dedicated
      to doing a really fine job, a lot is possible. (Acme's main work is very high
      quality edition binding, so their standards are already high.)\r\n\r\nIn a shop
      such as Staples or W. H. Smith's, it'll be an entirely different matter.\r\n\r\n "
    created: '2006-12-23 18:54:17'
  - author:
      name: tupper
    body: Jason is far too optimistic and charitable in his posted outlook on POD.
      Perhaps it's because he's limited himself to just a few of its shortcomings.
    created: '2006-12-24 02:09:25'
  created: '2006-12-23 18:28:57'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.lulu.com/content/333763\">Friends of Don at LuLu.com</a>\r\n\r\nI
    printed this photography book last year POD with LuLu.com and it came out awesome.
    At least, as awesome as a self published photography book with no up front costs
    can look. We ran a few test books just to tweak the photos, but in the end it
    came out great.\r\n\r\nAn amazing service for students. I plan on designing a
    ton of books to print, just to beef up my portfolio.\r\n\r\nIf anyone needs a
    cheap, nice portfolio, POD is the way to go.\r\n\r\n<cite>It seems that with some
    (relatively) simple rules and limits; ie. a range of DIN page sizes, font size
    limits, and tagging words to prevent hyphenation, it won\u2019t be hard to pull
    this off.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's even better than that. There are size limits and
    bleeds and stuff, but basically you just give them a .PDF of whatever you want
    printed. You can give them a .DOC file, but they convert it into .PDF on their
    end anyway. As long as there are no technical problems with your file it should
    print exactly the way you want it to, warts and all."
  created: '2006-12-23 20:40:09'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'How fast is LuLu.com? My only project for the holidays is to make a book
    from last semester''s process and assignments, and since the teacher and I don''t
    get along especially well, it might be fun to turn it in as a hardbound book. '
  created: '2006-12-24 00:53:07'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Thanks for your insights and technical details, I feel pretty much to second
    Jason Dewinetz (I remember I did read some of the concernings about paper & binding
    also on the site I posted above, that is why I posted). Also, if we like high
    standards and we wish a lot to be possible for POD, with my understanding of politic,
    that sounds like it ought to be a monopoly capitalism \u2014\u2014 not really
    tech-illuminism (I apologize for this \"neologism\" if it itches). I wonder what
    would be the smell of books in the future, or if interior designers will use them."
  created: '2006-12-24 01:56:48'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>How fast is LuLu.com?</cite>\r\nLess than two weeks? If I remember
    correctly. Altogether with the test proofs and revisions it took less than 6 weeks
    from scratch. Not bad at all.\r\n\r\nWe didn't do hardcover, so that's next on
    my list."
  children:
  - author:
      name: boicozine
      picture: 111774
    body: "I've been really interested in self-publishing for a little while now.
      I looked into using Blurb's 'BookSmart' software, which was deliberately limited
      in terms of creating of layouts but let you choose the type of typefaces you
      would like to use which made me pretty happy.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately the postage
      to the U.K. was too pricey for a test run so I recently tried Lulu.com instead
      (they have helpfully set up a U.K. devison). Lulu.com is a great system for
      self publishers, particularly if you are a designer used to supplying files
      as PDFs and I love the way they have utilised the concept of Print on Demand
      to it's full extent... here comes the but... \r\n\r\nI thought the print quality
      was really disappointing. I had expected something similar to the look and feel
      of a decent quality offset job but the reality was more like a high quality
      Colour Laser Copier. In particular, the full bleed photographic images highlighted
      the jarring contrast between the thick, layers of glossy ink and the uncoated
      stock. I'm guessing this is where the whole Print on Demand idea starts fraying
      at the edges. Either colour laser printers need to get a lot better real soon
      or designers and the general public will have to come to expect a low standard
      of quality from publications using a POD system. \r\n\r\nIn terms of my self-publishing
      project, I haven't given up. I know what to expect now, I'm 'reshaping' the
      project to match the medium... I'm now thinking 'zine'. :)"
    created: '2007-01-02 23:11:20'
  created: '2006-12-24 02:35:55'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Jeff, indeed, only a few as there's certainly no time or space to venture
    into the rationale behind real ink pressed into good paper, let alone the pointless
    argument for skill, convention & principle.\r\n\r\nNice to see another BC voice
    around these parts."
  created: '2006-12-24 07:27:58'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Jason, do you really read my post as advocating low quality? To the contrary,
    my aim is to increase quality in a segment that normally produces crap.\r\n\r\n(a)
    What is html/css today? A document format that lacks any typographic quality.
    Yet html is used to provide long texts that require to be printed before reading.
    If I ask for a document format allowing for flexible typography, this implies
    that this document format (and/or the reader software) has some built-in \"typographic
    knowledge\", so it does care for widows, orphans, images, captions &c. What Tschichold
    calls \"good typography\", or many of the things you have learned from Mr Bringhurst's
    book, can be automated. Sorry that this didn't become clear in my earlier post.\r\n\r\n(b)
    It is a misreading if you think that from now on <cite>all</cite> books are to
    be produced that way.\r\nIf you ever digged into scientific literature, down to
    dissertations, you many know that this is a huge segment where quality never really
    mattered: For both lack of typographic knowledge and finances, authors \"typeset\"
    books by themselves -- earlier on a typewriter which then was scaled down and
    reproduced, now in Word, neither margins nor leading and wrapped into a cover
    designed by the editor-professor's assistant or, yes, a printer's inhouse-staff.
    Reading that is pain.\r\n\r\n(c) If you lament about possibly missing printing
    quality, well, have a look into many paperbacks today which seem to be reproductions
    of reproductions of reproductions of ...\r\n\r\n<cite>If what I want is to read
    a rare text, great, give me the text in a relatively neutral PDF, but please don\u2019t
    demean the thing by shoving it through a cookie-cutter and calling it a book.</cite>\r\n\r\n(d)
    If you ask for mere access to <cite>texts</cite>, then POD is neither better nor
    worse than a \"neutral PDF\" printed out at home. If you want a high quality reproduction
    to get a spirit of the original, then neither POD or your printer is a solution,
    and the high quality reproduction -- still a reproduction -- may cost you a fortune.\r\n\r\n(e)
    One should not mix up the idea of printing (books) on demand, the particular service
    of On Demand Books or technology they use, and the quality that <cite>could</cite>
    be achieved (please test the Kodak NexPress 2100 which even prints on rough papers,
    with offset-like matt printing of colors). As to Google's monopoly, I would feel
    more comfortable had all the university-based attempts at creating digital libraries
    been successful. Since universities are the institutions to produce and keep knowledge,
    it would have been their damned job. But then, in future they'll buy not only
    the e-learning platforms but also the content, I-don't-want-to-know-where.\r\n\r\nSo,
    printing books on demand is a solution for a special segment. I hope nobody considers
    printing fine or illustrated books that way. Neither will bestseller paperbacks
    be printed that way -- too slow, too expensive.\r\n\r\n(Yes, the smell of the
    book is important, but honestly, I am more interested in the <cite>text</cite>.
    If the typographic representation assists me with this and maybe pleases my eyes,
    I'm a happy man.)"
  created: '2006-12-24 09:00:08'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Well, not that I can/want to smell all I need/like to read \u2014\u2014 good
    point mentioning that <em>special segment</em>, I am saying the text should be
    treated as UI, not content."
  created: '2006-12-24 14:24:15'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>I am saying the text should be treated as UI, not content.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    agree."
  created: '2006-12-24 14:30:33'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Karsten, I actually woke this morning feeling somewhat hypocritical and arrogant,
    determined to pop open Typophile to say that I am also often forced to rely on
    digital printing, due both to finances and short-run projects; I suppose my grouching
    here is more about aspiration. For years now I've produced very limited-edition
    chapbooks of poetry by Canadian writers, and from the first my intention has been
    to build well designed books by relatively unknown poets in a format and at a
    price that anyone can afford: it always seemed somewhat pointless to expect a
    reader to shell out a bunch of money for a handful of poems by someone they've
    never heard of. The idea was to make the book a sort of introduction for the reader
    & writer, and if that invitation could include the dignity of decent typography
    & book design, that has been my goal. However, as I don't own a press myself,
    and offset printing of 100 copies is impossible (ie: cost), I've tended to print
    the pages myself with a high-resolution laser printer, and the covers printed
    ink-jet on alum-treated paper to secure the colour. All of this has been a source
    of considerable irritation for me, because what I would like to be doing is printing
    these books by hand, with metal or polymer. Alas, for the time being that's not
    a possibility, so I have had to settle for what seems to me to be a sad compromise.\r\n\r\nThus,
    I don't mean to say digital printing has no place, just that it is, to my mind,
    a bitter yet often necessary evil. The real problem, and here's the part that
    concerns me, is that it is beginning to be seen not as a necessary evil, but a
    reasonable and, more, acceptible substitute for \"the real thing.\" The fact that
    I am running in to more and more freelance clients who are considering this option
    for edition printing is what worries me.\r\n\r\nAs for myself, much of what I'm
    doing now involves a compromise I'm uncomfortable with, but the goal is that this
    work will contribute to the plan of setting up a press so that I can some day
    (hopefully soon) be able to produce books that honestly deserve their name.\r\n\r\n\r\nps.
    Karsten, thanks for your off-list email & the doc you sent. I'll have a look &
    respond soon."
  created: '2006-12-24 19:01:57'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "What was it Tschichold said? \r\n\r\n'Standardization, not individualization.
    \r\nCheap books instead of fine press editions.\r\nActive literature, instead
    of passive leather bindings.'\r\n\r\nDon't get me wrong, the bibliophile in me
    will NEVER stop marveling and collecting fine printing.\r\n\r\nI've been following
    this area for the past couple years now (having ordered examples from a number
    of printers), and I've been meaning to take advantage of it for quite some time.
    I don't intend for the projects I have in mind (all personal) to imitate fine
    press or conventionally offset books. A lot of Jason's gripes, I agree with. Instead,
    I'd like to take advantage of the roughness of the medium, in much the same way
    that photocopied zines hit the scene a couple years ago. \r\n\r\nI've ordered
    a number of POD books, and they generally look like sh-t because they're obviously
    not designed by someone armed with book skills, or more often than not, the pages
    are simply reprinted scanned reproductions of the original pages. I understand
    the importance of democarcy of literature, butlet's ensure that the medium is
    as flavorful as the content.\r\n\r\n______________________________\r\n\r\nThe
    major problem against POD and publishingall those wonderful outof print and obsucre
    books is copyright issues, especially  the risky situation of accidentally infringing
    on an existing work without knowing it.\r\n\r\nThe following is from a website
    whose author is dealing with his own copyright battles with POD publisher Kessinger.\r\n\r\nhttp://new.businesscommonsense.com/enews/fullStory.bsp?sid=32029&var=story\r\n\r\nApril
    9, 2006, Financial Times, Patti Waldmeier wrote an article titled, \u201CCopyright
    is stifling US Culture.\u201D\r\n\r\n'American universities, museums and libraries
    hold huge collections of material that they dare not post online because of the
    risk of massive liability if an unknown copyright owner later surfaces to sue
    them. Dealing with all these orphans is a hugely costly business: Cornell University,
    for example, says it spent $50,000 of staff time and several months calling publishers,
    authors and authors\u2019 heirs, trying to get permission to digitise 343 monographs
    on 19th- and 20th-century agriculture\u2014and still failed to identify 58 percent
    of the owners.'"
  created: '2006-12-27 06:12:43'
date: '2006-12-23 14:34:19'
title: "Coming to a store near you\u2014instant book printing"

---
