---
author:
  name: Alessandro Segalini
  picture: 111041
body: http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/n/a/2006/12/25/entertainment/e000345S34.DTL
comments:
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "I am Music, the most ancient of the arts. I am more than ancient: I am eternal.
    Before the earth began, I was already there, in the winds and in the waves. When
    the first trees, flowers and fields appeared, I was among them. And when man appeared
    I became immediately the most delicate, the lightest and the strongest way of
    expression of Man's emotions.\r\n\r\nWhen men were little more than beasts I had
    an influence for their good. In all the ages I inspired men with hope, set alight
    their love, gave voice to their joys, I made them happy for the courageous acts
    and comforted them in the desperate moments. I played an important part in the
    life drama that has for aim and goal the complete perfection of Man's nature.
    Through my influence, the human nature has been raised, mitigated and sharpened.
    With men's help I became an Art. I have a multiplicity of voices and instruments.\r\n\r\nI
    stand in the heart of all men and on their tongues in all the lands, among all
    the people; the ignorant and the illiterate know me as the rich and the scholar
    do because I speak to all men in a language they all understand. Even the deaf
    can hear me if he only listens the voice of his soul. I am the food of love. I
    taught men mildness and peace and I guided them towards heroic acts. I give comfort
    to the lonely and I harmonize the discord of the crowds. I am a necessary luxury
    for all men. I am Music.\r\n\r\n<em>Anonymous</em>"
  created: '2006-12-25 23:03:38'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: It is a sad Christmas indeed. :(
  created: '2006-12-26 00:30:43'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>I (don't) feel good.\r\nI knew that I would (this day) now.\r\n\r\nCan
    you see the light? \r\n\r\n(And with the homage of Weird Al) Living with a hernia.</em>\r\n\r\nPapa's
    got a brand new bag.... \r\n\r\nUnfortunately."
  created: '2006-12-26 03:08:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My son is going to be devistated. James Brown is his favorite performer of
    all time.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-26 03:36:13'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: 'Yeah, I know.  My regular grocery store (the local equivalent of Giant Foods,
    Chris) ran a campaign a few years ago with the "I Feel Good" tag and music: it
    was great, and moved them into being the most popular shop here in town.'
  created: '2006-12-26 03:41:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My son is autistic. He will always be remembered at the Special Olympics
    for belting out his perfect imitation of JB from the medal platform after winning
    first place in the 200 meter freestyle, \"I Fe-e-e-e-e-l GOOD!\" He rocked the
    place!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-26 04:07:54'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: I bet.  :-)
  created: '2006-12-26 04:51:13'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "For me (and my daughter) he will always be remembered as the highlight of
    Rocky IV.\r\n\r\nPeace, Si "
  created: '2006-12-26 04:58:28'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Now THAT is funky\u2026\r\n\r\nRIP JB\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-12-26 16:53:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "James Brown was a great innovator, and one of the greatest performers. I
    love him as a balladeer particularly. \r\n\r\nAs an innovator, he was particulary
    important in rhythm. Be-bop had changed jazz from a traditional blues rhythm,
    which breaks the 4 beats down further into doublets or triplets, to a 16th note
    feel. As I see it, James Brown did this in a different way in rock, and introduced
    a new rhythmic feel, which was hugely influential. \r\n\r\nJust as Charlie Parker
    kept a blues feel even while playing much faster, James Brown kept a blues feel
    even in his faster rhythms. But unfortunately the followers IMHO have not been
    able to do it so well. And as a result the sense of 'swing' in both Jazz and Rock
    have declined. \r\n\r\nAt least that's how one 'old school' guy feels.  "
  created: '2006-12-26 17:08:57'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Chris, tell me you've got some video footage of that! :)\r\n\r\nJames Brown:
    <em>he didn't know karate, but he knew ka-razy.</em> Still a staple in our iTunes
    music rotation. :)"
  created: '2006-12-26 18:26:53'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Oh man, this sucks. Big time.\r\nRIP"
  created: '2006-12-26 19:45:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sorry Terry no video :-(\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/medal-stand_5571.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-26 20:09:09'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Don't forget the work he did for civil rights for black people. A lot more
    than an entertainer.
  created: '2006-12-26 20:33:21'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I saw him once on the street in front of the Plaza Hotel, at least 10 years
    ago. He was wearing a shiny green suit and his usual platform shoes. Made my day.\r\n\r\nThe
    hardest working man in show business.\r\n\r\nThe Godfather of Soul."
  created: '2006-12-26 21:45:57'
- author:
    name: Da Kine
    picture: 111014
  body: "Have any of you seen a video of the T.A.M.I. Show, ca. 1964? An eclectic
    \ assortment of pop stars including James Brown at his VERY BEST!!!! J.B. made
    Mick and the others seem like silly children! Well worth the effort to find a
    copy of this video!\r\nDB~"
  created: '2006-12-26 22:01:48'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: 'A Turkish friend now at Pordue reminded me Ahmet Ertegun''s death as well,
    I post it with pleasure : http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ahmet_Ertegun'
  created: '2006-12-26 23:00:21'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "James Brown stands equal with other masters of Rhythm like Bach and Mozart
    et al! He was a refined force of rhythmic genius and well understood music's techniques
    such as syncopation.\r\n\r\nAnd from his pulpit of Funk/Soul he preached the gospel
    of Life, life as a black man in America, for America itself, and spoke for us
    all with songs like 'I got You', 'How do you stop', 'It's a man's man's man's
    world', 'I know you got Soul', etc., etc...  \r\nI think he will be viewed as
    one of the most influential men in American history - black, white or whatever.
    \r\n\r\nAnd man, am I ever going to miss him.\r\n\r\n________\r\nHiro\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-27 01:16:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/JBgetup_5054.jpg]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-27 16:06:14'
- author:
    name: Da Kine
    picture: 111014
  body: "The universe remains in balance:\r\nJames Brown dies.\r\nThe anti-James Brown,
    Gerald Ford dies.\r\n\r\nDB~"
  created: '2006-12-27 18:38:37'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: What perfect rhythm he must have displayed when beating his wife...
  created: '2006-12-27 22:07:13'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I agree. Let's not get carried away with his great character - great music
    yes, a shining example no\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-12-28 03:07:43'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: It will be interesting to see all the pomp they trot out for ex-prez Ford.
    Never elected, never respected, the only thing he did of note was to pardon Nixon.
    And to live a long time. His wife actually has made more of an impact.
  created: '2006-12-28 04:00:09'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I agree. Let\u2019s not get carried away with his great character - great
    music yes, a shining example no\u2026\r\n\r\nOf course the same could be said
    for Gill, Griffo and other people from the world of type...  "
  created: '2006-12-28 04:01:55'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "The Vietnam War ended during Gerald Ford's watch. For that alone I will always
    respect him.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-12-28 08:54:51'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Paul -- The Vietnam War ended under Richard Nixon's watch. He was the president
    that called our troops home. I can remember the day clearly - I was a college
    student -- and was working in a restaurant at nights. The group of us at the restaurant
    and told the ceiling to let Johnson know the war he escalated was now over.\r\n\r\nGerald
    Ford was not a great leader - he was a good follower. At the time he was appointed
    President, I know personally, I was very upset. He was the first president we
    ever had that was not elected by the people. I felt this country should of had
    a special election -- but you know, it never really matters the political machine
    continues to churn.\r\n\r\nAs for James Brown. thank you Chris and Paul. He may
    have been loved by many for his music and his innovations in the music world -
    but not an example to show our children -- unless of course you want to show his
    time served in South Carolina to them - and let them know there is still hope
    after jail.\r\n\r\nSorry to sound so cynical this morning -- just we tend to honor
    many of the wrong people. Our children are in need of heroes and good-doers. We
    give them glitz and show them a way of life they will probably never have. I think
    I prefer living with people who have their dreams, but keep their feet on the
    ground."
  created: '2006-12-28 16:16:07'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Ford told NY to Drop Dead. For that alone I will always reject him.
  created: '2006-12-28 16:32:47'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "\"Hero worship, in anyone save a child, is indissolubly linked to its obverse,
    which is despisal. Admiration, however, is a different, less morally questionable
    quality. Admiration is not born of sentimental irreason. It is occasioned by achievements
    rather than personality, by the work rather than the man. Demagogues depend upon
    the human capacity to be incited to adulation. Artists don\u2019t.\"\r\n\r\n<a
    href= \"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jonathan_Meades\"> Jonathan Meades</a> wrote
    this.\r\n\r\nThanks Chris for raising the issues of JB's backstage achievements,
    so to speak."
  created: '2006-12-28 17:41:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Our children are in need of heroes and good-doers. We give them glitz\r\n\r\nYou
    don't have to give them glitz. If you give them your own example of being an honest,
    caring and responsible human being, you have a very good shot at counteracting
    the shallow and destructive messages in the popular culture. Parents are by far
    the most powerful influence on children--even though we have a lot of competition
    these days.  "
  created: '2006-12-28 17:49:09'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "My lottery number for the draft was #2 so I was pretty interested in the
    Vietnam War.\r\n\r\nMy memory ranks a bit lower than that I suppose. Not surprising
    considering what I was up to in the early 70s. :)\r\n\r\nDidn't the draft end
    under President Ford or was it just before he took office? I know it was 1973
    because that was going to be my year - to do whatever it took to get out of it\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-12-28 18:34:07'
- author:
    name: Da Kine
    picture: 111014
  body: "Can you imagine what the Pollyanna/revisionists will say some day when George
    W.Bush dies?!?! God.... I hope I'm long gone before this happens!\r\nDB~"
  created: '2006-12-28 18:59:13'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "The draft ended in 1973.\r\n\r\nNixon resigned August 8, 1974. - That was
    also a summer I spent in London and realized that their newspapers and televisions
    were censored... they never heard the entire speech Nixon made live to the American
    public. Favorite comment that day was from an Englishman who looked me in the
    face and said, \"American has just hit puberty.\"\r\n\r\nAnd DaKine - I'm with
    you - I'm scared how these folks would rewrite it all - especially since we were
    there to experience it. (Is this like Iran not believing the holocaust took place?)\r\n\r\nAnd
    Patty - I'll hate Mayor Beame way before I'd take it out on Ford. Beame had been
    controller for the city and knew where all the money was. When he took office
    he decided we need a tax upping - I think we went from the 6 or 7 right to 8%
    (the .25 was added a year or so later) no vote on the matter - no going over the
    books to see if the city needed to do this -- and when it was done, he very nicely
    announced to the papers he found several \"city bank accounts\" and we didn't
    need the sales tax hike, but (and with a broad smile) said he was keeping it in
    place anyway...  Our whole Federal government at that point told us to bug off..."
  created: '2006-12-28 20:50:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ">\u201DAs for James Brown. thank you Chris ...\r\nOur children are in need
    of heroes and good-doers. \u201C\r\n\r\nSometimes someone can be a \u201Cgood-doer\u201D
    without even knowing it. I owe a special gratitude to James Brown, Little Richard,
    Aretha Franklin, Wilson Pickett and Tina Turner. My son is autistic and did not
    speak or understand language or even respond to his name until he was 4 years
    old. Part of the reason for his breakthrough to communication was his response
    to R&B music, mostly James Brown. While I was playing some of my old R&B recordings,
    I noticed that Michael was responding with body movement in sync with the music.
    His first attempts at speech were mouthing sounds in response to James Brown\u2019s
    music. We found videos of JBs performances and showed Michael.  This even made
    the effect stronger. A rare smile came to his face.  In time, he was imitating
    both sound and movement. Eventually, he learned the complete \u201CI feel Good\u201D
    cut and it became part of the launch-pad for speech.  Today he has full speech
    and understanding (to the point where he never stops talking).\r\nI am sure James
    Brown did nothing on purpose to help Michael but, never-the-less, he has. Call
    me a Pollyanna/revisionist if you like but I can\u2019t ever forget that moment
    when Michael first said \u201CI feel good\u201D.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-28 22:53:33'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: Thank you ChrisL for sharing this. Nice to for me to put one positive mark
    next to the man...
  created: '2006-12-28 23:14:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Beautiful\r\n\r\nThanks, Chris"
  created: '2006-12-28 23:40:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "The typo link, from...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.guardian.co.uk/worldlatest/story/0,,-6305251,00.html
    \r\n\r\n\"Brown, who lived in Beech Island, S.C., near the Georgia line, won a
    Grammy <STRONG>font</STRONG> in 1992,\" \r\n\r\n?\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-29 02:57:13'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Isn't there a James Brown font? :-)\r\n\r\nThanks for the story, Chris.  Every
    hero is like duct tape: they have a dark side and a light side, and they hold
    our universe together.\r\n\r\nSo Patty, did you head up to the Apollo?"
  created: '2006-12-29 03:12:45'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Nah, I didn't go to the Apollo. I hate crowds. I did go to Central Park for
    the John Lennon memorial back in 1980 and remember that after the moment of silence
    they played Imagine and a light snow started to fall.\r\n\r\nDennis: I hope you
    are alive when George W Bush dies. In fact I hope he gets struck by lightning
    one day after he leaves office, just so Cheney can't ascend to the throne.\r\n\r\nChris
    - that is a great story. I have a friend with a mildly autistic son who responded
    as a little boy to Neil Young. Turns out Neil Young has an autistic son too...
    but we didn't know that at the time.\r\n\r\nAnd Jackie - yeah Beame was a weenie.
    But frankly I wish we could go back to the dark days of NY in the 70s when artists
    could afford to live in Manhattan and life was interesting. I can't stand the
    overpriced overhyped Disneyland that this city has become and the current mayor
    (who IS a republican) just wants to build more and more big buildings. Is that
    progress? I'm not sure."
  created: '2006-12-29 05:02:44'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Wow Chris, you blow me away man - such a love!!\r\n\r\nTo all the sunday
    christians out there and in here... James Brown personally carried millions of
    Americans to a fresh clean bold place - a place of 'self' worth with his verse,
    \"Say It Loud - I'm Black and I'm Proud\", and in '68 racist America this was
    huge - and always will be. \r\n\r\nHey Mr. Sunday Christian, (Chris G., Heron
    2001 et al.), how much have you contributed to raising up your oppressed? Tell
    me what you've done! I'm right here - waiting... \r\n\r\nRaw talent is never pretty,
    never will be. Furthermore Mr. Sunday Christian, it doesn't need your permission/approval
    to raise up the human spirit! \r\n\r\nStick to judging yourself Mr. Sunday Christian
    and leave it at that, you're not qualified to go any further.\r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-29 06:26:17'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Hiroshige,\r\n\r\nI lived through and protested with the best of them to
    help shape this country. So please, get off your soapbox.\r\n\r\nI spent most
    of my adulthood helping people on a one-to-one. In the art world in NYC, I watched
    many talented designers lose their jobs because of Mac computers. I was the only
    typeshop that would take them in -- give them a 6 mos course (and buy them lunches
    almost everyday, etc.) and teach them the Mac. It became a joke around publishing,
    come to me and six months later -- you became an art director. I also watched
    many of these people spit on the rest of the world when they got there - so I
    didn't exactly feel like my job was complete.\r\n\r\nOh, yes, I owned a typeshop
    in New York and was the second one in NYC to put in MACs and proudly the first
    one that was actually producing work on it... (And again, helping another typeshop's
    workers try to keep their jobs - when MKP sold out to Harris -- MKP's workers
    were given 6 months to learn the Mac -- several of their day workers would come
    over to my shop to try and learn - but their hearts weren't in it. I remember
    one guy saw my old typositor and just wanted to come and set typositor words for
    me...)\r\n\r\nI have taken in strays (and I'm not talking animals) and made them
    feel human again and got them on their way into the world. And yes, some of them
    I am so very proud of. I'd love to give you one of the people I helped. He was
    a New Yorker who came back to NY as a homeless person. I took him in and well,
    made him feel like a human being. (BTW - a wonderful artist who have had many
    shows on the West coast.) He was able to get his act back together and well, I
    am really proud of him. He does his artwork at night, took a regular day job --
    owns his own home.\r\n\r\nI did not grow up to be a \"tushy-washer\" but it is
    what I seem to have become. I now take care of a 90 year old woman and do my best
    to make her want to get out of bed and live everyday. Last week was extremely
    rough for me - it was the 26th anniversary of my own mother's death -- and here
    was Helen (the 90-year old) about to die that day. I couldn't let her. If you
    are interested she is doing much better this week -- but seems to have lost her
    short-term memory -- and wants to keep putting the stove on.\r\n\r\nI have no
    trumpets to blow and couldn't care less about most people's attitudes. (That tend
    to happen when you get older and no longer seek parental approval.) I just try
    to make the world a little bit better and believe in treating humans nicely. I've
    never faltered from my original learnings - and I've passed them on to others.\r\n\r\nI've
    been lucky in my life. There has always been a connection to people in the world
    for me. I've always had my own \"network\" even before the age of computers. That
    network extended to many cities throughout the world. Amazing, you have reminded
    me that when I had my own apartment in NY and was by myself -- I was never alone.\r\n\r\n********\r\n\r\nPatty,\r\n\r\nLife
    in Manhattan was always wonderful. I was born there, grew up there -- studied
    there. The 70s were great.  Hiroshiga writes about the radical blacks of the '60s.
    I have to laugh - hey, I was in NY. We even protested against the New York Times
    in 1969 begging them to stop typesetting \"Negros\" and use the word Black. It
    was quite an achievement when they finally did. And NYC those years -- let's face
    it -- the hippy way of life was winning out and everyone was spreading the joys
    of love.\r\n\r\nI haven't lived in NY since February 14, 1999. I was happy I wasn't
    there for 9-11. I have watched many good friends of mine pass away -- and the
    city isn't the same for me. I returned two October's ago for my dearest friend's
    Irish Wake -- I was amazed at what I saw. Manhattan is a youngster's paradise.
    No senior citizens out there... I don't know how everyone affords to live there
    -the apartments are way over priced. (My friend's apartment cost him $37,000 in
    1986 and today is worth $550,000.) I gave up a large (850 sq ft) one bedroom apartment
    that cost me - now don't cry -- $1000 per month in 1999. Located in what use to
    be the heart of the typesetting industry - 46th & 2nd.\r\n\r\nWell, thank you
    for letting me write this out during my peace time - before Helen arises...\r\n\r\nJackie
    \r\n\r\nP.S. So Hiroshige -- in the strands of life - who are you?"
  created: '2006-12-29 12:35:35'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Back off topic\u2026 we also lost Wilson Picket this year, another great."
  created: '2006-12-29 14:14:15'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "And we've lost so many more - and good ones too!\r\n\r\nI don't know if you
    are aware of \r\n\r\nhttp://www.deadoraliveinfo.com\r\n\r\nbut it is one of my
    favorite sites and I thought I'd share it with you, if you were not already familiar
    with it."
  created: '2006-12-29 15:02:43'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "And Lou Rawls.\r\n\r\n(And for us feminists, Betty Friedan.)"
  created: '2006-12-30 02:12:26'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "Hiroshige,\r\n\r\n<cite>Hey Mr. Sunday Christian, (Chris G., Heron 2001 et
    al.), how much have you contributed to raising up your oppressed? Tell me what
    you\u2019ve done! I\u2019m right here - waiting\u2026\r\nRaw talent is never pretty,
    never will be. Furthermore Mr. Sunday Christian, it doesn\u2019t need your permission/approval
    to raise up the human spirit!</cite>\r\n\r\nYou've completely failed to recognise
    that I cast no doubt on the positive effects of the man's work, nor did I imply
    that raising the human spirit is dependent on my permission...\r\n\r\nYou are
    under the misaprehension that beating his wife can be safely overlooked because
    he did good things as well as bad, which is ridiculous. Whether the good deeds
    outweigh the bad does not change the fact that the bad deeds remain just that
    - bad.\r\n\r\nTo cast doubt on the validity of mine or others opinions based on
    how we've 'raised up our oppressed' is fallacious. By your reasoning a customer
    in a restaurant would be wrong in complaining about a bad meal simply because
    he is not a chef.\r\n\r\nHold the late Mr Brown in as much esteem as you wish,
    but don't get on your high horse when people present you with facts you don't
    want to acknowledge.\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-30 15:34:49'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Alessandro Segalini, yesterday, you said Time is god.\r\nToday, you say Music
    is god.\r\nNo wonder, some say Between Thighs!\r\n\r\n> Is this like Iran not
    believing the holocaust took place?\r\nHeron2001, From where you got this bit
    of Information?\r\nAre you prepared/allowed to discuss/investigate the Facts and
    Figures of Holocaust?\r\nYou will find how faithful I am to Chris G's words:\r\n\"but
    don\u2019t get on your high horse when people present you with facts you don\u2019t
    want to acknowledge.\"\r\nAnd I also hope you will be at your words:\r\n> I\u2019ve
    never faltered from my original learnings - and I\u2019ve passed them on to others.\r\n\r\n>
    In fact I hope he gets struck by lightning one day after he leaves office,\r\n>
    just so Cheney can\u2019t ascend to the throne.\r\n\r\nThat's against God's never-changing
    Wont:\r\nArrogants taste Gradual Degradation in the present world\r\nand (if you
    believe) a mighty chastisement in the world to come.\r\nSaddam's end is just up-to-date
    lesson."
  created: '2006-12-31 07:37:05'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Dear AzizMostafa,\r\n\r\nSo many forget that 17 million persons perished
    in concentration camps. I was delighed recently when 60 Minutes did a segment
    on a WWII archive in Germany that is finally being allowed to be viewed by the
    general public. It has the complete records of all the concentration camps and
    all the lists the German's had insisted upon from the Ghettos. That is proof enough
    that the Holocaust happened.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile, you ask me about Iran. I received
    an email blast that originated from the Simon Weisenthal Center. I have found
    their information accurate. \r\n\r\nYou may view this article at\r\nhttp://www.wiesenthal.com/site/apps/nl/content2.asp?c=fwLYKnN8LzH&b=245494&ct=3292771\r\nand
    decide for yourself.\r\n\r\nI studied European History from 1805-1945 for my BA
    in History. I tend to find these type of facts, and honestly, I am happy I do.
    I was very sad when in past years I visited Europe and found that the youth were
    not taught full history. In Austria, many facts have been covered up. One of my
    internet buddies was looking out at what he called the \"Blue Danube\" -- I wrote
    back and told him he meant the \"Red Danube\" - after explaining about the people
    who were forced into the Danube to drown and be shot out - his first reaction
    was he was tired of the propaganda -- I sent him to a site that had photos of
    a monument dedicated to all those who lost their lives by being killed in the
    Danube...\r\n\r\nWell, like I keep trying to say. I cannot change the world -
    but I do try to help one human at a time... Those who have helped me in my life
    always told me I was to pass it on. I've tried to live up to their expectations.\r\n\r\nP.S.
    Where have you been - just to a google or yahoo search for Iran denies the Holocaust
    - and have fun reading.\r\nhttp://search.yahoo.com/search?ei=utf-8&fr=slv8-msgr&p=iran%20denies%20holocaust\r\nhttp://www.google.com/search?hl=en&q=iran+denies+the+holocaust\r\n\r\n*****************\r\n\r\nTo
    all typophiles - I am sorry we have strayed so off topic -- but I wish each of
    you a Happy and Prosperous New Year."
  created: '2006-12-31 13:46:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Are you prepared/allowed to discuss/investigate the Facts and Figures of
    Holocaust?\r\n\r\nI am allowed, I am prepared, and I know. \r\n\r\nThe holocaust
    is one of the best documented periods in history, and many survivors are still
    alive now to testify, and have done so and are still telling their stories. And
    there are 50,000 on film, thanks to Spielberg's project.  \r\n\r\nIf you are interested
    you can see a few brief clips of personal testimony<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/USC_Shoah_Foundation_Institute_for_Visual_History_and_Education\">
    here</a>.\r\n\r\nYou have to understand that this is not past history because
    many people alive today remember it all too well. \r\n\r\nIf you are interested
    I can add a lot more. But you should understand that holocaust denial is simply
    a cynical and dishonest attempt to further a murderous political agenda. It has
    nothing at all to do with the search for truth, or acceptance of obvious historical
    truths. \r\n\r\nIf someone started a campaign to say that Saddam Hussein never
    existed, it would have as much credibility to you as holocaust denial does to
    me. You just know better, and so do I. "
  created: '2006-12-31 14:53:22'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Hear hear William.\r\n\r\nHey happy new year everybody and what say we steer
    clear of anything controversial for the rest of the year?"
  created: '2006-12-31 15:43:44'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Dear Friends, William Berkson and Heron2001\r\n\r\nThanks for the Info+Links!\r\n\r\n1.
    Do you agree that If someone wants to prove something against someone else, he/she
    has to refer to a link controlled by the accused for complete+accurate information?!
    Otherwise means otherwise?!\r\nFor example, to get the full story, I have to dig
    out of this site:\r\nhttp://www.holocaustchronicle.org/\r\n\r\nSo, any pointer
    to any Official Iranian (not anti-Iranian) Site that denies the Holocaustchronicle?\r\n\r\n2.
    Since The holocaust is one of the best documented periods in history, I beg you
    to make sure of the accuracy of Facts+Figures you supply before replying. For
    example, if you say 50,000 were killed somewhere, then you can multiply that number
    or divide it by 2, not more?\r\n\r\nAll the Best with Flowers"
  created: '2006-12-31 17:25:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Aziz, you should understand that Holocaust denial has nothing to do with
    truth or plausiblity. It is just those who are willing to engage in the 'big lie'
    to further their political goals. \r\n\r\nAhmadinejad has figured out that it
    is more plausible to say that 'there are two sides' to the argument over whether
    the holocaust happened, than to say it is a 'myth', as he originally did. But
    there are not two sides, any more than there are 'two sides' to an argument over
    whether Saddam Hussein ever existed. This 'two sides' stuff is just a more plausible
    version of a 'big lie' that is designed to serve a political agenda, an agenda
    of de-legitimizing and destroying Israel. \r\n \r\n>Do you agree that If someone
    wants to prove something against someone else, he/she has to refer to a link controlled
    by the accused for complete+accurate information?!\r\n\r\nI don't understand what
    you mean by 'accused'. Who is being accused, and by whom? And the link I gave
    is of a sample of personal testimony of people about their own lives. It is not
    a second-hand historical account.\r\n\r\nThose who were involved in the events
    on both sides, both Germans and Jews, agree on the history. The fact of the holocaust
    and the scale of it is not a matter of serious controversy in Europe, which is
    where it happened. \r\n\r\n>I beg you to make sure of the accuracy of Facts+Figures
    you supply before replying.\r\n\r\nWhat was inaccurate in what I said?  \r\n\r\n>For
    example, if you say 50,000 were killed somewhere, then you can multiply that number
    or divide it by 2, not more?\r\n\r\nWhat are you talking about? I never said anything
    about numbers killed. I said that 50,000 survivors have told their stories on
    film.  I didn't multiply anything by 2. \r\n\r\nThe bottom line is that almost
    everyone who actually has studied the history and talked to the people involved
    agrees on the reality of the holocaust, and the general scale of it. \r\n\r\nThe
    site you link to, so far as I can see skimming it quickly, gives a normal history
    of the holocaust. There are thousands of other similar histories many much more
    extensive."
  created: '2006-12-31 18:41:01'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I too saw the 60 minutes piece Jackie referred to; as that archive gradually
    gets explored and revealed a lot more stories will come to light.\r\n\r\nAziz:
    you better be careful - it's not clear from your posts what YOU actually believe.
    Holocaust denial is in fact a crime in many European countries. They take their
    history seriously. In fact Germany teaches students a very detailed history of
    their country's actions during WW 2. They have made a much more thorough and responsible
    examination of their culpability as a nation than most other countries, in the
    interest of history not repeating itself. I'd like to see the US do the same regarding
    our own treatment of native americans and african americans. Unfortunately anti-semitism
    is still rampant both in Europe and in the middle east, and not helped by the
    actions of the Israeli government. It's possible to be Jewish and not a zionist
    per se.\r\n\r\nThe Museum of Tolerance at the Simon Wiesenthal center in LA is
    a fascinating lesson on genocide and intolerance, placing the holocaust smack
    in the context of both past and present situations globally - I recommend anyone
    in LA go see it.\r\n\r\nAgain, happy new year, peace on earth."
  created: '2006-12-31 19:43:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">as that archive gradually gets explored \r\n\r\nMicrofilm copies of many
    of the camp records are at the Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington DC. \r\n\r\nFor
    a friend who just completed a book on one of the camps, I spent four or five hours
    looking through these lists of thousands and thousands of individuals on those
    lists--many or most not Jewish on the particular lists I was looking at, but many
    thousands identified as Jewish. When I saw their names--almost all of them murdered--typed
    up neatly and noted as to their country of origin, age IIRC, and supposed 'crime'
    in neat German hand writing, it was pretty chilling and depressing.  "
  created: '2006-12-31 20:22:34'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'The Holocaust Museum is a chilling place. The train car made my  hair stand
    on end. It didn''t help that I was racing through it just before closing and kept
    hearing doors clang shut behind me. '
  created: '2006-12-31 20:26:43'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "1. Does \"if you say\" mean \"you said\"?!\r\n\r\n> The fact of the holocaust
    and the scale of it is not a matter of serious controversy in Europe, which is
    where it happened.\r\n\r\nThen, in 1948, the Jewish National Council proclaimed
    the state of Israel elsewhere. Why not in Europe? \r\n\r\nThis is what Ahmadinejad
    said. What was inaccurate in what he said? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-31 20:51:59'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Dear Aziz,\r\n\r\nYou seem to have a grasp of the English language, but because
    of your first question, I guess we can assume that it is not your native tongue.
    If \"you say\" is meaning - if one poses a question -- it doesn't mean that any
    one person said an exact sentence.\r\n\r\nI would like to take this time to remind
    you, as I wrote earlier -- the concentration camps took the lives of 17 million.
    We hear all the time of the 6 million Jews whose lives were taken. But there were
    11 millions others - they were intellects, Gypsies, Cheks, Rumanians, scientists,
    musicians, artists, thespians, Hungarians, Dutch, Germans, and of course, anyone
    who was caught being against the Nazi government.\r\n\r\nWe mourn the loss of
    all, not just in the holocaust - but in all wars. It is a waste of life. Sometimes
    it is necessary, and we all pray that good will overcome evil.\r\n\r\nThis is
    not a topic for a type board. And none of us want to be negative or antagonistic.
    \r\n\r\nWe cannot understand if you are just trying to achieve an open debate,
    or you are taking a stand -- of which, we are not sure on what side.\r\n\r\nIran's
    president clearly stated the denial of the holocaust. BWW, so did Austria and
    Russia right after the war.  Austria taught a new history stating mostly Jewish
    propaganda. Russia just didn't teach anything about the war to its young. It wasn't
    until the Berlin wall fell, that Germany finally admit \"guilt\" and started with
    apologies and reparations. Large German manufacturers have apologized for using
    slave labor - even if it was with a grain of salt saying the Nazi regime made
    them do it.\r\n\r\nBut I don't want to really get off topic again. All I'm saying
    at his point - is Rest In Peace and we cannot forget. For if we do - history is
    bound to repeat itself. Look at Bosnia a few years ago -- fortunately the world
    stepped in to stop the genocide.\r\n\r\nP.S. If I were a moderator of this forum
    -- I would either close this thread, or take it up with the powers that be to
    delete it. It really has nothing to do with type. There are sites for Brown and
    Holocausts."
  created: '2006-12-31 23:22:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Aziz, the question of the legitimacy of the state of Israel is a different
    one from the question of the reality of the holocaust. \r\n\r\nI personally think
    the state of Israel is a legitimate state, but I recognize that there is a legitimate
    debate about it. If you want to talk about the legitimacy of the state of Israel,
    fine, though I doubt this is the best forum. In my opinion, and in the opinion
    of almost all who know something of recent European history, there is no legitimate
    debate about whether the holocaust happened. \r\n\r\n>Then, in 1948, the Jewish
    National Council proclaimed the state of Israel elsewhere. Why not in Europe?\r\n\r\nI
    don't know what this statement is referring to, so I don't know how to respond.
    The facts are that on May 14, 1948 the National Council issued Israel's Declaration
    of Independence. This was declared in Tel Aviv, and reported around the world
    in the news. I'm sure it was reported in Europe as well as elsewhere. "
  created: '2007-01-01 00:28:16'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: This thread is an amazing testament to the civility of Typophile's membership.
    There are few corners of the internet where a thread can get derailed into discussions
    of holocaust denial and the legitimacy of Israel without devolving into a stew
    of vulgarities that even a sailor's son wouldn't deign to utter.
  created: '2007-01-01 01:06:18'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: ">Then, in 1948, the Jewish National Council proclaimed the state of Israel
    elsewhere. Why not in Europe?\r\n>\r\n\r\nI did mean to address this statement.
    It shows that one has not been following or learning the history of the world.
    The brief statement for this was Europe didn't want the displaced Jewish population.
    Many Jews did not want to go back to their \"homelands\" were they suffered at
    the hands of their \"neighbors.\" The UK had a problem. They had taken position
    of Palestine at the end of the Great War - handed over to them by the defunct
    League of Nations. The Europeans Jews wanted a homeland, and in the writings of
    all 12 tribes - a mesiah would appear and lead them back to Jerusalem. The UK
    had a constant battle - not only didn't the Palestines want them on the land -
    but the displaced Jews who were resettling there -- were also fighting the Brits.
    The new United Nations turned the land over to the displaced Jews - the first
    and only Jewish state on this planet. The Brits left - and the Jews did everything
    they could to make their new homeland tolerable. \r\n\r\nI've left out much -
    I'm trying to keep it simple and easy to understand. This became their homeland
    with the blessings of a world council -- and the irrigated and worked the land.
    They took a desert and made it an oasis. The world was to watch over, happy with
    the knowledge all Jews would be \"there\" -- and no where else. \r\n\r\nJewish
    people are not loved by everyone. Some are scared of them and would believe to
    this day that they have horns on their heads. There is the myth they hold all
    the world power, and oh, let's just not go there.\r\n\r\nSimple - They didn't
    want to be in Europe - Europe didn't want them. UK had a large problem with Palestine
    - and the UN gave the problem to the Jews. The End. \r\n\r\nAnd while we are on
    this discussion - I always wondered, if Israel lost the 6-Day War - would the
    world have asked the new Palestine to return the land to them?"
  created: '2007-01-01 01:27:24'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "So far, there is no misunderstanding between us in that:\r\n1. The Holocaust
    crimes were committed by European against European Jews and Christians as well.
    May All the Murdered rest in peace.\r\n2. There was no Israel before 1948.\r\n3.
    The proclamation of Israel had nothing to do with Holocaust.\r\n______________________________\r\nPlease,
    Correct me if I am wrong.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-01 05:07:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "May the new year bring peace and understanding among all peoples of the World.
    May we forgive eachother our past prejudices and wrong doing and begin life again
    with no ill will.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-01 05:22:05'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Chris the people who hate will always hate they don't care anything about
    any other people. What if they were endangered specicies of animimals would they
    care for them?
  created: '2007-01-01 05:55:10'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> The Europeans Jews wanted a homeland, and in the writings of all 12 tribes
    - a mesiah would appear and lead them back to Jerusalem. \r\n\r\n1. The same Mesiah
    recognized by Christians. Or a different One?\r\n2. Are they preparing for his
    noble (re)appearance in Jerusalem?\r\n\r\n> Jewish people are not loved by everyone.
    Some are scared of them and would believe to this day that they have horns on
    their heads. \r\n\r\nBut thousands of Jews live peacefuly in Iran, mainly in Tehran+Isfahan.\r\nThey
    do have their own shops, schools, temples and restaurants. \r\nAnd they are represented
    in the Iranian Consultative+Experts Assemblies. And, they do play a constructive
    role in building+ defending their homeland."
  created: '2007-01-01 12:35:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">1. The Holocaust crimes were committed by European against European Jews
    and Christians as well. May All the Murdered rest in peace.\r\n>2. There was no
    Israel before 1948.\r\n>3. The proclamation of Israel had nothing to do with Holocaust.\r\n\r\n1.
    This is correct. But it gives a fuller picture if you add that it was Nazis leading
    the murdering, and that they targeted specific groups: Jews, Gypsies, homosexuals,
    and anyone who criticized their regime, amongst others. \r\n\r\n2. Not quite right.
    There was a Jewish state in ancient times, which was at its largest under King
    Solomon, around the year 1000 BCE. It was ended in 576 BCE by Bablyonian conquest,
    and exile. Jews returned to the land of Israel 70 years later, and eventually
    there was a second Jewish state from 164 BCE until about the first century C.E.
    After that, for 1900 years Jews in dispersion preserved their unique culture and
    Hebrew language, and every day prayed for return to the land of Israel. There
    was also, with with some exceptions, a continuous small Jewish presence in the
    land of Israel and in Jerusalem. Present day Israel, from 1948, is the third Jewish
    commonwealth. \r\n\r\n3. No, the proclamation of Israel was very much influenced
    by the holocaust. What I said is that the question of whether the holocaust happened,
    and the question of the legitimacy of the founding of the State of Israel are
    two different questions. \r\n\r\nThere is actually no honest question as to whether
    the holocaust happened, as it was a huge event in the 20th century, very well
    documented and still remembered today by people who experienced it. By questioning
    it Ahmadinejad simply made himself look foolish or crazy or wicked in the eyes
    of all Europeans and Americans. Other Iranian leaders have acknowledged its reality,
    as they haven't wanted to look so foolish. \r\n\r\nThe holocaust created a huge
    problem of Jewish refugees. This fueled further Jewish immigration to the land
    of Israel, and made the world, including the UN and the USA, sympathetic to the
    cause of a Jewish  homeland and place of refuge in the site of the ancient Jewish
    states. And the holocaust is mentioned in the Declaration of Independence of Israel.
    \ \r\n\r\nThe question of whether the founding of the Jewish state was legitimate
    is a reasonable question. As I said, I think the answer is 'yes', but I recognize
    that there are arguments on both sides.  \r\n\r\nOn your more recent questions
    I will post later. "
  created: '2007-01-01 15:02:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">in the writings of all 12 tribes - a mesiah would appear and lead them back
    to Jerusalem.\r\n\r\nThis is not historically accurate. The twelve tribes ceased
    after the fall of the Northern kingdom, in 722 BCE. However, the idea of a messiah
    only appears in Judaism after 164 BCE, during the second Jewish state. It is mainly
    post-biblical and appears in the Bible only in the latest passages, such as in
    the Book of Daniel, and even there it is not clear.\r\n\r\nAlso the establishment
    of the Jewish state was done primarily not by religious Jews, but by secular socialists
    who wanted a homeland for the Jews as an ethnic group, and not to fulfill religious
    hopes.\r\n\r\n>1. The same Mesiah recognized by Christians. Or a different One?\r\n>2.
    Are they preparing for his noble (re)appearance in Jerusalem?\r\n\r\n1. The Jewish
    concept of the messiah is not entirely clear, but it is clear at least that the
    messiah will not be a God, but a person who will re-establish the Jewish state
    and usher in a reign of peace in the world. This is decisively different from
    the Christian concept. \r\n\r\n2. Traditionally, the only preparation for the
    coming of the messiah is the doing of good deeds. Prayers for the coming of the
    messiah, soon, is part of the traditional Jewish daily prayers (which were formulated
    in the the second century CE).   \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-01 15:38:09'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> The holocaust created a huge problem of Jewish refugees. This fueled further
    Jewish immigration to the land of Israel, and made the world, including the UN
    and the USA, sympathetic to the cause of a Jewish homeland and place of refuge
    in the site of the ancient Jewish states. \r\n\r\n1. The Jews were travellers
    from the Nile to the Euphrates rivers. \r\nWhy Jerusalem was chosen for their
    settlements? Why not Jordan for example? UN+USA were supposed to respect All religions,
    not only Jews?! But by doing that, UN+USA extinguished fire in Europe to fuel
    bigger fire in the middle east?!\r\n\r\n2. How did the Jews re-settlement take
    place in the land of Israel?\r\nWas that land inhabited? Was it a barren desert?
    \r\nOr was mistakenly known by the land of Fig and Olive?\r\nWere they welcomed
    by the inhabitants? Or they were sent with weapons?\r\n\r\n3. To which ethnic
    group did the European Jews belong?\r\nDid their grandfathers migrate from the
    land of Israel to Europe?\r\nWhen and why?\r\n\r\n> Also the establishment of
    the Jewish state was done primarily not by religious Jews, but by secular socialists
    who wanted a homeland for\r\nthe Jews as an ethnic group, and not to fulfill religious
    hopes.\r\n\r\nCan I take it that the Jewish National Council that proclaimed the
    state of Israel were Secular Socialists?!"
  created: '2007-01-01 21:21:31'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Aziz,\r\n\r\nHonestly most of what you ask is over my head. I can only add
    that the land was inhabited by others, and that others still live within the borders
    of Israel. Many Arabs are proud to have been born and raised in TelAviv and Jerusalem.
    (I met quite a few in Manhattan over the years...)\r\n\r\nBut your questions bring
    up another question I've always had - and maybe someone can answer it for both
    of us -- There is a Jewish custom of raising a glass and saying, \"Next year in
    Jerusalem.\" I've always wondered about it's historical meaning....\r\n\r\nAnyone?"
  created: '2007-01-01 23:49:56'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> I\u2019ve always wondered about it\u2019s historical meaning\u2026.\r\n\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.myjewishlearning.com/holidays/Passover/TO_Pesach_Seder/Seder_Steps/Zion_SederMeaning3_643/NextYearJerusalem.htm\">Next
    year in Jerusalem</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-02 00:02:07'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I wonder what James Brown would think of the way this thread has been hijacked!\r\n\r\nIf
    any of you have ever been to Jerusalem you'd know that in a matter of a few square
    blocks lie the site of the ancient Jewish temple (the walls are still there, the
    Jews still pray at them), the Dome of the Rock from which Mohammed ascended (you
    can touch this spot with your hand), the Via Dolorosa (stages of the cross) and
    the Church of the Holy Sepulchre which was built on the site of Jesus's crucifixion.
    It is impossible to grasp the proximity of these holy sites without actually being
    there. The Dome of the Rock - which is heartbreakingly beautiful - is actually
    built on the former site of the Jewish temple. Yes, the Jews were there first.
    This spot will always be a site of contention. Nothing short of tearing it all
    down and perhaps turning it into some sort of multi-denominational site of worship
    with no national or religious jurisdiction will solve this conflict. And yet this
    solution would anger everyone. It's like Solomon tearing the child in half.\r\n\r\nIt
    is frustrating beyond belief that nobody seems to be able to rise above self interest,
    take the high road and come up with a peaceful solution, which is (I believe)
    what the vast majority of Jews and Palestinians want. Everybody is acting like
    the child who only wants the toy because his brother wants it too.\r\n\r\nI second
    the suggestion that the moderators close this thread. We have indeed stayed civilized
    so far - amazing considering how flame-y some other threads have gotten."
  created: '2007-01-02 00:16:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">stayed civilized so far - amazing considering how flame-y some other threads
    have gotten.\r\n\r\nI suspect this is because Aziz is actually open minded, and
    I would like to think I am too. \r\n\r\nThe problem with addressing all your questions,
    Aziz, is that they would take a book--actually many books--to answer them in depth.
    Because so much history is involved, rather than trying to cite it all, let me
    just give you my own general view, and if you like I can  cite references later.
    \r\n\r\n>1. The Jews were travellers from the Nile to the Euphrates rivers.\r\nWhy
    Jerusalem was chosen for their settlements? Why not Jordan for example? \r\n\r\nIf
    you start with Abraham, in maybe 1700 BCE,his family came from Ur, which is maybe
    not so far from your house. The story goes from the Euphrates to the Nile, and
    then back to the land of present day Israel & Palestine, which is where it was
    for the longest period. \r\n\r\nWith Abraham you are talking about a family or
    small clan. The history of the Jews as a whole people with their own religion
    really starts in a way that is trackable after the Exodus from Egypt in about
    1300 BCE. There they come into the hill country west of the Jordan river, largely
    in the current West Bank territories. \r\n\r\nKing David united the 12 tribes
    under him as King, and made his capital Jerusalem (which was central within the
    various tribal areas) in around 1000 BCE. Though a city did exist before that,
    for the next thousand years (with the exception of 70 years exile in Bablyonia)
    it was a Jewish city. David's son Solomon built the ancient Jewish Temple there,
    and that was the center of Jewish worship for the next thousand years also, until
    the Roman destruction in 70 CE. After 70, there was a Jewish presence in Jerusalem
    basically whenever it wasn't prevented under pain of death. \r\n\r\nIn the Jewish
    psalms, there are praises of Jerusalem while the Jews were in exile in Babylonia.
    (These pre-date Islam by 1000 years). And after the Roman destruction of the Temple
    in 70 CE, the daily prayers contained longing to return to Jerusalem ever since.
    And of course Jews traditional pray in the direction of Jerusalem, and within
    Israel toward the Temple mount--all of which predates Islam by hundreds of years.
    \r\n\r\nI should add that the Hebrew language is in the view of most derived from
    the language of the Caananites, and so the language of the Jews is pretty much
    native to Jerusalem. Arabic, which is the language of conquerers from Arabia,
    is also a Semitic language, but not so local in origin.\r\n\r\nAs far as genetic
    background, the Jews were a \"mixed multitude\" even when they came out of Egypt,
    and today Jews and Israelis come from practically every racial type. Still, a
    majority (including me) look to me like cousins to Lebanese and Syrians.  \r\n\r\nThe
    basic point I am making is that the Jews have a very long and strong claim to
    being people from the land which is currently Israel, and specifically Jerusalem.
    \r\n\r\nI know that one can argue about this, but so too one can argue about the
    claim of Islam on Jerusalem as a holy site, as you can read in the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al-Aqsa_Mosque\">wikipedia
    article</a> on this issue.      \r\n\r\nNow I don't think that either the historic
    or religious Jewish or Islamic claims to Jerusalem are the most important things
    in the current situation. But I just mention some of the Jewish ties--and a lot
    more can be said--as by your question you don't seem to be aware of them.\r\n\r\nTo
    me more important than the historical, religious and emotional ties of either
    Jews or Muslims to Jerusalem is a settlement of the current state of war that
    will lead to peace and a good future for both Israeli and Palestinian communities.
    \r\n\r\nI'll turn to other of your questions in a later posting. "
  created: '2007-01-02 05:22:11'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> ... the Dome of the Rock from which Mohammed ascended...\r\n\r\nThis is
    a common mistake even among Muslims?! The Dome of the Rock was built after the
    death of Mohammed by a so-called Muslim Ruler \r\n(2nd after Mohammed) just to
    lessen the importance of  Masjid Al-Aqsa (Remote Mosque) to which Mohammed was
    bodily carried from Kaba (in mecca) and from there through the 7 heavens to God's
    presence.  Remote Mosque It is still standing nearby but sadly not given the attention
    as the Dome of the Rock. Have you ever visited it Pattyfab?"
  created: '2007-01-02 05:34:17'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> David\u2019s son Solomon built the ancient Jewish Temple there, and that
    was the center of Jewish worship for the next thousand years also\r\n\r\nThat's
    right:\r\nTo this very place, Mohammed was bodily carried from Kaba (in Mecca),\r\nFrom
    this very place (Remote Mosque) through the 7 heavens to God\u2019s presence.
    \r\nTowards this very place , Moslem were turning face in prayers (Qibla).\r\nThen
    after 16 months in Madina, Mohammed was instructed to change Qibla from Jerusalem
    to Kaaba."
  created: '2007-01-02 13:51:37'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Very Strange! For the last 2 days, I have been able to post but not to edit
    nor Insert Images. Testing, I am posting these 2 pictures.\r\nThanking you and
    apologizing for any grammatical and spelling errors.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/noble_sanctuary_4505.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/alaqsa2_4406.gif]"
  created: '2007-01-02 14:11:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">UN+USA were supposed to respect All religions, not only Jews?! But by doing
    that, UN+USA distinguished fire in Europe to fuel bigger fire in the middle east?!\r\n\r\n>2.
    How did the Jews re-settlement take place in the land of Israel?\r\nWas that land
    inhabited? Was it a barren desert?\r\nOr was mistakenly known by the land of Fig
    and Olive?\r\nWere they welcomed by the inhabitants? Or they were sent with weapons?\r\n\r\n>3.
    To which ethnic group did the European Jews belong?\r\nDid their grandfathers
    migrate from the land of Israel to Europe?\r\nWhen and why?\r\n\r\nSpecific, detailed
    answers to these questions would take books to answer. Let me just recommend to
    you, if you are interested in seeing another side to the story from what you usually
    hear, <a href=\"http://www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org/jsource/myths/mftoc.html\">this
    Jewish web site</a> and the extensive <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/o/ASIN/0679765638/ref=pd_rvi_gw_1/002-2366700-8164814\">History
    of Israel</a> by Howard Sachar.\r\n\r\nOverall, my view is the following. Whatever
    the wisdom of the UN partition in 1948, had the Arab countries accepted it (as
    the Jews did) they would have soon had an Arab majority in Israel. Instead they
    publicly declared their intent to massacre all the Jews. In the resulting war
    70% of the Arab population fled. The Arab countries refused to negotiate over
    refugees (until 1992 I believe), and an movement of roughly equal numbers of Jewish
    refugees from the hostile Arab countries into Israel took place. At the same time,
    Arab countries tried repeatedly to crush Israel, and conducted terror raids, murdering
    innocent men, women and children over a period of more than fifty years, as well
    as conducting a series of unsuccessful wars against Israel. \r\n\r\nSo whatever
    the wisdom of the partition, the murderous goals and actions of the Arab countries,
    the exchange of refugees, and the successful defence of the Jewish state at great
    cost to Jewish lives in my view legitimates the Jewish state. \r\n\r\nSo to me
    the question of returning Israel to Muslim rule is now similar to the question
    of whether southern Spain should be returned to Muslim rule. In my view, only
    if you accept the premises of religious fanatics--who, in every religion are the
    enemies of peace and prosperity--is Israel illegitimate. \r\n\r\n\r\n    "
  created: '2007-01-02 17:47:51'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: ">This is a common mistake even among Muslims?! The Dome of the Rock was built
    after the death of Mohammed by a so-called Muslim Ruler\r\n(2nd after Mohammed)
    just to lessen the importance of Masjid Al-Aqsa (Remote Mosque) to which Mohammed
    was bodily carried from Kaba (in mecca) and from there through the 7 heavens to
    God\u2019s presence. Remote Mosque It is still standing nearby but sadly not given
    the attention as the Dome of the Rock. Have you ever visited it Pattyfab?\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure, Aziz - when I toured the Dome of the Rock I was told (by a muslim guide)
    that it was from that point that Mohammed ascended. Further evidence here:\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sakhrah\r\n\r\nYou
    will also see from this article that the rock itself also holds great significance
    in Jewish tradition. And interesting to read this note at the top of the wikipedia
    article on Al Aqsa\r\n\"The neutrality and factual accuracy of this article are
    disputed.\" I fear there is no neutrality where this conflict is concerned.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I honestly can't remember if I went inside Al Aqsa. I was in Israel over 20 years
    ago. I know that non-muslims can't enter now, but have no idea if that was the
    case when I went. I was there shortly after the Camp David accord which was a
    very joyful time in Israel."
  created: '2007-01-02 18:12:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al-Aqsa_Mosque\">wikipedia article
    on Al-Aqsa</a> says that the whole area around the Mosque is referred to as \"Al-Aqsa\",
    as well as the Mosque itself, so that would presumably include the Dome of the
    Rock. \r\n\r\nThe article is interesting in that it contains a lot of contradictory
    information, obviously from different hands, and was closed because of controversy.
    The article includes the controversy over whether 'Al-Aqsa'  in the Quran actually
    refers to a location in Jerusalem. "
  created: '2007-01-02 19:47:03'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: ">the whole area around the Mosque\r\n\r\na.k.a. the temple mount"
  created: '2007-01-02 20:13:25'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Thanks William Berkson+pattyfab for your understanding and open-mindedness.\r\n\r\n>
    So to me the question of returning Israel to Muslim rule is now similar to the
    question of whether southern Spain should be returned to Muslim rule\r\n\r\nTo
    me, both were unjustified Occupations. Neither Israel is a Jewsish state, nor
    Spain was ruled by Muslims.\r\n\r\n> So whatever the wisdom of the partition,
    the murderous goals and actions of the Arab countries, the exchange of refugees,
    and the successful defence of the Jewish state at great cost to Jewish lives in
    my view legitimates the Jewish state. \r\n\r\nSo whatever the wisdom of the UN(US+UK)
    partition, the murderous goals and actions of Israel, the exchange of missiles,
    and the successful defence of Lebanon at great cost to Muslim+Christian lives
    in my view legitimates the Resistance of Hizbullah. \r\n\r\n> In my view, only
    if you accept the premises of religious fanatics\u2014who, in every religion are
    the enemies of peace and prosperity\u2014is Israel illegitimate.\r\n\r\nIn my
    view, only if you accept the premises of Secular fanatics\u2014who, in every region
    are the enemies of peace+justice(religion)\u2014Israel is legitimate. \r\n\r\nWith
    due respect to All the True Jews wherever they are."
  created: '2007-01-03 05:59:47'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> If any of you have ever been to Jerusalem you\u2019d know that in a matter
    of a few square blocks lie the site of the ancient Jewish temple (the walls are
    still there, the Jews still pray at them), ... and the Church of the Holy Sepulchre
    which was built on the site of Jesus\u2019s crucifixion.\r\n\r\nPattyfab, I asked
    a Jew from Holland I met in KL/Malaysia in 1989 and\r\nI need to confirm the answer
    to the same question here again. My question was:\r\nIt is not hard to conclude
    that Jesus\u2019s crucifixion happened few square blocks from the Jewish temple.
    Needless to say that the Jews rejected Jesus Prophethood, but did they witness
    his crucifixion?\r\n> Temple was closed that day; Otherwise they would surely
    stop Jesus crucifixion, He replied.\r\nOf course from the angle of enjoying the
    good and forbidding evil, I commented and he nodded his head. \r\n________________________\r\nTrue?
    If not, could you clarify a bit please?"
  created: '2007-01-03 12:10:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">nor Spain was ruled by Muslims.\r\n\r\nAziz, you are sending me back to
    the history books--which are very interesting to me. \r\n\r\nParts of present
    day Spain were ruled by Muslims from 711 to 1492, nearly 800 years. When Spain
    was first conquered by Islamic armies, it had been Christian for some time. \r\n\r\nWhen
    present day Israel was conquered by Muslim armies from Arabia, it had also been
    Christian for hundreds of years. It had been briefly conquered by the Persians,
    and then the Arab conquest came in 640, establishing Islam. The Arabs were not
    invited, but conquered by the sword and give people the choice of conversion,
    death or--in the special case of Christians and Jews--dhimmi (second class) status.
    The Muslim rulers were in turn re-conquered 450 years later by Christian Crusaders,
    who ruled for two hundred years, from 1099 to 1291--with the exception of a period
    when Saladin briefly returned the land to Muslim control (and invited Jews back
    to Jerusalem). \r\n\r\nAfter that Muslims from Egypt (Mamluks) regained control,
    until they were conquered by the Turks, also Muslim, in 1517. The Turks were conquered
    by European allies in WWI, and the land of Israel was taken over by the British,
    who were Christian. Like Saladin, they invited the Jews back. (Jews did not re-settle
    by an aggressive war.) \r\n\r\nMy point in recounting this history is that to
    figure out the rights and wrongs of every conquest and ruler you would take a
    lifetime of studying history. \r\n\r\nAnd the bottom line is that if you are a
    Muslim fanatic, like Osama bin Ladin, you will want to reconquer Spain by force
    of arms as soon as possible. If you are a Christian fanatic, like the Crusaders,
    you will want right away to return all once-Christian lands to Christian rule.
    If you are a Jewish fanatic, you will want to expand the Jewish state to the size
    of the state of King Solomon. \r\n\r\nBy the way I shouldn't have said that religious
    fanaticism is the enemy of peace and prosperity, I should have said that fanaticism,
    period, is the enemy of peace and prosperity. Communist fanaticism in the 20th
    century was responsible for great slaughter of people, and it was anti-religious.
    \r\n\r\nSo if you want to kill people over their beliefs I think this is the enemy
    of peace and prosperity. If you want to be tolerant and let people raise their
    families in peace, worship as they choose, grow food, heal the sick, write poetry
    and music--and do type and calligraphy!--then I think you are on the right path."
  created: '2007-01-03 13:24:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">> Temple was closed that day; Otherwise they would surely stop Jesus crucifixion,\r\n\r\nThe
    Dutch Jew you spoke didn't know the history so well. Jesus was crucified by the
    Romans, who were in power in Judea, as they saw Jesus as a threat to their power.
    The Jews could not stop the Romans from doing what they wanted. Jews tried to
    resume political power by armed rebellions against Rome in 70 CE and in 135 CE
    and were crushed both times. \r\n\r\n[Some passages in the Christian Bible portray
    the Jews as to some degree complicit in the Roman execution of Jesus. This is
    a matter of great controversy and bitterness. The late Pope John Paul II clearly
    rejected the interpretation of Jewish responsibilty for Jesus' death.]  \r\n\r\nThe
    traditional Jewish view is that prophesy ended after the return from exile in
    Babylonia (576 BCE). After that religious leaders were called scribes or teachers
    (rabbis). There was never a question about Jesus perhaps being a prophet, either
    for Jews or Christians. For Christians Jesus is the son of God. Jews and later
    Muslims rejected this fundamental point of Christianity. Muslims regard Jesus
    as a Prophet, but this is neither a Jewish nor a Christian view. "
  created: '2007-01-03 13:40:13'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Still investigating the Well-documented Holocaust,\r\n1. Aside from the shot-to-death,
    how many Jews were gassed?\r\n2. What kind of Gas was used? Still unknown?\r\n3.
    Were there gas-generating laboratories near the camps?\r\n4. How was the gas pumped
    into the camps? Through Pipes.\r\n5. How did the gassing take place?\r\n6. How
    many mass graves discovered so far?\r\n7. How well Camps were sealed to prevent
    gas leak out?\r\nAccurate answers please.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-03 14:03:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The task of going back through history to find the numerous conquering, enslavements,
    murders, and reconquerings is far easier and less fruitful than the task of forgiving
    each-other our many heinous acts (their are many on all sides among all peoples
    in history). Pointing the finger of blame has been proven futile for centuries.
    \ The real job is what do we do now to stop all the senseless hatred and killing.
    Every retaliation begets another retaliation. This will never stop. Too often
    peoples perform murderous acts in the name of whatever god or religion they profess.
    This somehow helps them shed blame for their horrible deeds and absolve them of
    guilt. \r\nWe are all guilty, all to blame, not so much for the acts of our ancestors
    but for the acts yet to be committed which we do nothing to prevent. Isn't it
    time to stop all this? Have we learned nothing from the World's bloodstained history?
    Instead of pointing the finger of guilt, let us lift a finger to help stop all
    of this insanity.\r\n\r\nHappy New Year.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-03 14:04:19'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I REALLY don't think this forum is the appropriate place for this discussion.
    Aziz, if these questions really interest you I'm sure you can find the answers
    you're looking for either on line or in a library. William and others have already
    provided you with some links. \r\n\r\nThe gas was <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zyclon_B\">Zyklon
    B</a>. \r\nAll Jews are true Jews (except IMO the so-called Jews for Jesus).\r\n\r\nI'm
    done with this thread.\r\n\r\nPeace on earth."
  created: '2007-01-03 14:53:51'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "2. What kind of Gas was used? Still unknown?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.answers.com/topic/zyklon-b\r\n\r\nhttp://www.degussa-history.com/geschichte/en/predecessors/degussa_in_the_ns_era/\r\n\r\nhttp://www.nizkor.org/ftp.cgi/camps/auschwitz/cyanide/cyanide.001\r\n\r\nThis
    is a pretty repellent investigation Aziz, but nothing you couldn't discover for
    yourself without taking this thread so far off-topic.\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-03 15:11:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Accurate answers please.\r\n\r\nThere is a limit to the precision of the
    answers anyone has, but there is no doubt that massive numbers were murdered by
    gas. Massive numbers were also shot. \r\n\r\nIf you are interested in the details--and
    there is a great deal of detailed documentation--you can read any of the huge
    library of books on the subject. \r\n\r\nYou can also find a lot on the internet,
    but of course there is also a lot of hate-filled rubbish on the internet also.
    \r\n\r\nSome good internet sites are: \r\nhttp://www.ushmm.org/holocaust/ and
    \r\nhttp://www.holocaust-history.org/ "
  created: '2007-01-03 15:27:46'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">1. Aside from the shot-to-death, how many Jews were gassed?\r\n\r\nThe number
    of those killed by being shot, or by other means than gas chambers in concentration
    camps, should not be minimized. The German army, as it advanced through Eastern
    Europe into the Soviet Union, was followed by the SS. The Germans organized militias
    in many of the occupied countries to assit their killing as well. All of this
    is well documented by the German government (even by the old East German government)
    and I suspect by the present-day governments of the respective countries involved,
    too. Certainly in Poland and in Russia, there are records. \r\n\r\nAziz, the line
    of questioning you put forth feels to me to be undermined by a misunderstanding
    of European history. For at least a thousand years, Europe was not the tolerant,
    open environment it is today. Wars and killings were common throughout its history,
    even its modern history. In seventy years, for instance, between 1870 and 1940,
    Germany invaded France three times.\r\n\r\nVisit virtually any city center in
    Central Europe. Signs commenorate mass killings and burings throughout the past
    several centuries \u2014 not just of Jews but of too many minority groups. The
    first victims of the Crusades, just to mention one example, were not Muslims or
    Arabs or Turks or even Greeks (all of whom would eventually be terribly attacked
    over the centuries-long campaigns), but Jews living in Christian cities along
    the Rheinland. As the first crusading armies moved out of France along their way
    to Jerusalem, they decided to kill all enemies they could find, even the ones
    on their doorsteps, and their neighbors in their own cities!\r\n\r\nThe history
    of Europe is tragic and violent. Fortunately for us in the present and in the
    future, it was at least well documented. Trying to discredit the whole of history
    by nitpicking at details is distastefull, and it makes my heart sad to witness
    it. "
  created: '2007-01-03 15:35:16'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Also Aziz, the answers to all of your questions from your last post can be
    found in the testimonies given at the Nuremburg trials, and other trials conducted
    by the Allies after the conclusion of the war. The German governments, and the
    governments of their neighboring countries (West and East) also held trials for
    decades after the war's end. (In France, Klaus Barbie did not even come to trial
    until 1984; more info here \u2013 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Klaus_Barbie)\r\n\r\nMany
    of the defendants in these trials did not contest their actions in the war, the
    government, or the holocaust. Rather, they contested whether wat they had done
    was actually wrong (and occasionally whether or not the courts were valid). Examine
    the proceeds of these cases, and you will find your answers."
  created: '2007-01-03 15:41:45'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Klaus Barbie died on the same day as Dr. Seuss. I remember they each had
    a full page obit in the Times, on facing pages. Good :: Evil.\r\n\r\nNow I really
    am done with this thread!"
  created: '2007-01-03 15:52:45'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> My point in recounting this history is that to figure out the rights and
    wrongs of every conquest and ruler you would take a lifetime of studying history.
    \r\n\r\nBut we \u2014 Shia Moslems\u2014 see All the rulers you mentioned were
    on the wrong path because we declare the Oneness of God, reject any partners for
    Him; any personification (of Him) and any son (for Him). Every type of deviation
    from this, we condemn emphatically to destruction, like attributing partners,
    idolatry and the worship of man by  man.\r\n\r\nAs such, we believe that God is
    Unique. He is the Creator of All existence. Due to this, believe only good and
    righteousness is created in the universe and it is man who at times misuses these
    means and potential. Therefore, man is the cause of evil and the source of deviation.\r\n\r\nWe
    believe that God is without a body or matter; rather He is far elevated above
    matter and material. According to this, He has no need \r\nfor a place or locality.
    Surely, He is in every place and cognizant of everything. He is closer to us that
    our own jugular vein. He sees \r\neverything and hears every sound. In addition
    to that, there is no place for Him nor any habitat. He sees things and hears sounds
    not with the extremities on the eye nor the ear as we see and hear.\r\n\r\n(We
    believe) that the past and the future, the near and the remote are the same for
    Him. That everything is present in his knowledge \r\nwithout exception. The apparent
    and unknown are before him without exception, therefore. He even knows our thoughts
    and our intentions. \r\n\r\nHe encompasses (the Knowledge) of that which troubles
    our hearts, (that which) passes through our minds and hearts absolutely.\r\n\r\n(We
    believe) that He is Unique in all of these perspectives. He has no Compositional
    parts, even His attributes, like Capability and Knowledge are the same as His
    Essence.\r\n\r\nThere is no beginning for His existence nor any end. He is eternally
    existing, therefore, His existence  is infinite from all perspectives. His attributes
    never resemble the attributes of creation because man's attributes like ability
    and knowledge are limited. He is ever far exalted in His unlimited attributes.\r\n\r\nIn
    His power, (and in) non-other besides Him, is forgiveness of the sins of His servants.
    There is no intercession of anyone for anyone, even the Messenger of God except
    by His permission. \r\n\r\nWe believe that God never does any injustice to anyone
    of his servants. (We believe) the injustice of another either stems from ignorance
    or springs forth from impotence and God Glorified is He, is knowledgeable of all
    things and capable of all things. We believe in accordance with that that all
    of mankind is free in their will, not compelled to obedience or disobedience.
    (we believe) that their destinies are in their hands. They will decide for themselves
    without compulsion and He does not bear blame for the sin of another nor does
    anyone bear the sin or the error of another. Nor is man punished for the crimes
    of another.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-03 16:02:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">were on the wrong path\r\n\r\nAziz, I'm afraid I haven't communicated my
    point to you. My point is that what is most important is not what people believe,
    but what they do. \r\n\r\nMany people, and that includes rulers,ordinary people,
    Christians, Jews, Muslims--Shia and Sunni--and atheists have done beautiful, heroic
    deeds bettering the lives of those around them. And many people, Christians, Jews
    and Muslims and atheists have done vicious and wicked things. \r\n\r\nNo one should
    be punished or rewarded for his beliefs, but for his deeds. This principle allows
    us in Europe and the US to have tolerant societies in which Jew and Christian,
    Sunni and Shia can and do live side by side in peace. \r\n\r\nBy the way, everything
    in your statement of faith is consistent with Judaism, except perhaps where you
    say \"Every type of deviation from this, we condemn emphatically to destruction\".
    If you are talking about the hope that people will abandon what you regard as
    false beliefs, that is fine. If you are talking about killing people who disagree
    with you, I think it is a principle of intolerance, death and poverty. \r\n\r\nJust
    to be clear, the tolerance I am advocating is a product of no religion, but of
    people fed up with religious wars, who created the European Enlightenment."
  created: '2007-01-03 16:26:41'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "The task of going back through history to find the numerous conquering, enslavements,
    murders, and reconquerings is far easier and less fruitful than the task of forgiving
    each-other our many heinous acts (their are many on all sides among all peoples
    in history). Pointing the finger of blame has been proven futile for centuries.
    The real job is what do we do now to stop all the senseless hatred and killing.
    Every retaliation begets another retaliation. This will never stop. Too often
    peoples perform murderous acts in the name of whatever god or religion they profess.
    This somehow helps them shed blame for their horrible deeds and absolve them of
    guilt.\r\nWe are all guilty, all to blame, not so much for the acts of our ancestors
    but for the acts yet to be committed which we do nothing to prevent. Isn\u2019t
    it time to stop all this? Have we learned nothing from the World\u2019s bloodstained
    history? Instead of pointing the finger of guilt, let us lift a finger to help
    stop all of this insanity.\r\n___________________________________\r\nI'm sure
    that is a very good idea. I have found that such debates, by their very nature,
    lead to nothing but ill feeling.\r\nSurely by now, the human race should be smart
    enough to raise itself above such issues.\r\nHope that people will abandon false
    beliefs+stop creating false enemies.\r\nHappy New Year and Special Thanks to ChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-03 19:34:57'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Very well said, Aziz.\r\n\r\nAs they say. \"More power to you\"."
  created: '2008-09-09 09:03:04'
- author:
    name: Typedog
    picture: 115994
  body: "Peace Be With You!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGuerrizmo+Design"
  created: '2009-01-03 10:28:46'
date: '2006-12-25 23:02:33'
title: '[music] James Brown, 1933-2006'

---
