---
author:
  name: Dan Gayle
  picture: 111595
body: "I did a clean wipe of my system, and when I installed Photoshop CS3, I noticed
  that Arno Pro is installed. I can't find it on the Adobe website, nor on Myfonts.com.\r\n\r\nIt's
  similar to Adobe Jenson, but not as \"earthy.\" But now, there is no Jenson, which
  is one of my favorite Adobe Originals.\r\n\r\nSo:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arno_4721.gif]\r\n(EDIT:
  Did I forget to put a space there?)\r\n\r\nAnd what else is known about it?\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Oh my, another new bundled font that they have yet to announce. Looks pretty
    good. Let's see it bigger.
  created: '2006-12-28 04:05:24'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "36 Points each. \r\n\r\nTheir names are optical sizes, i.e., Arno Regular
    08pt = Arno Caption. Optical sizes are 08pt, 10pt, 12pt, 18pt and 36pt. Weights
    are Light, Regular, Semibold and Bold, all with Italics. The Light weight only
    comes in 36pt optical size. \r\n\r\nThe italics have swashes turned on for a bit
    of flair, and boy is it sweet.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arno1_3908.gif]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-28 04:47:13'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "72 Pt Arno Regular 12pt\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Arno12_6658.gif]"
  created: '2006-12-28 04:51:05'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Slimbach style. Looks like a calligraphic Minion to me, with better color
    an rythm.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-12-28 05:13:39'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "<strong>From Wikipedia on Robert Slimbach:</strong>\r\n\r\n\"Slimbach's OpenType\xAE
    families include reworkings of his previous designs as well as all-new typefaces:\r\n\r\nArno
    Pro (expected in spring 2007)...\"\r\n\r\n\r\n<strong>Also from Wikipedia:</strong>\r\n\r\n\r\n\"Arno
    may refer to:the\r\n\r\n\r\n[edit] People\r\nArno Breker, a German sculptor \r\nArno
    Hintjens, a Belgian singer \r\nArno of Salzburg, an 8th-century bishop \r\nMadame
    Arno, a Parisian artist and fighter \r\nPeter Arno, an American cartoonist \r\nArno
    Albertus Iskandar, a young Indonesian entrepreneur \r\n\r\n[edit] Geography\r\nArno
    River in Italy \r\nArno Bay, South Australia \r\nArno Atoll, an atoll in the Pacific
    Ocean. \r\nArno may also be short for Arnold...\"\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-12-28 05:35:58'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Ok, I've already learned that the Arno river in Italy goes across Florence,
    May this be the acutal naming motif?\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-12-28 05:38:18'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "That was my thought.\r\n\r\nBut that doesn't answer why they didn't include
    Adobe Jenson Pro in the distro."
  created: '2006-12-28 06:16:47'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: It's Slimbach's Requiem!
  created: '2006-12-28 06:25:45'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: Yup. Less inscriptional, more calligraphic and swashy -- Incognito style.
  created: '2006-12-28 09:20:35'
- author:
    name: James Scriven
  body: I have been testing CS3 and also came across arno after doing a "pre new years
    purge" of my computer. . . Is this a new bundled font?
  created: '2006-12-28 16:49:10'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Arno Pro is a GORGEOUS typeface. I'm not sure how much more I can say. I'll
    have to check the NDA.
  created: '2006-12-28 21:21:27'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: to me it looks like Brioso made into a text font.
  created: '2006-12-29 00:08:35'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: You could say that about many font designers and their fonts. There are traces
    of Brioso in the display sizes, especially in the italic IMHO, but it is a wholly
    new design with many more uses.
  created: '2006-12-29 00:19:47'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Arno is what you might call a modernized Venetian oldstyle. I think of it
    as having the same relationship to Adobe Jenson that Minion has to Garamond Premier.
    It's an upcoming design from Robert Slimbach with the level of language support
    and typographic features you might expect from a new Adobe Original typeface these
    days.\r\n\r\nNote: I don't think the version bundled with the Photoshop CS3 public
    beta was final. For now, consider it beta, like the application itself.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\nThomas
    Phinney\r\nProduct Manager\r\nFonts & Global Typography\r\nAdobe Systems"
  created: '2006-12-29 01:37:55'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Thomas, thanks for your note: I'm sure I'm not the only one who appreciates
    your comments.\r\n\r\nI personally love the small caps and italics, and the caps
    for \"P\" and \"Q,\" but find that the serif is rather intrusive on almost everything
    else, unlike Adobe Jenson.  Anyone else find it uncomfortable?\r\n\r\n(The cap
    \"P\" in particular reminds me of the current ad on our local transit for the
    DVD release of \"The Devil Wears Prada\" although I'm not enamoured of the rest
    of the ad.... )"
  created: '2006-12-29 03:34:07'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Just a couple more notes:\r\n\r\n- Note that Arno Pro is not being bundled
    \"instead of\" Adobe Jenson Pro. Photoshop CS2 had no bundled fonts.\r\n\r\n-
    Linda, are you commenting on the upright capitals or the italics? The italic sample
    Dan posted has the swash alternates on, not the default italics. The roman sample
    was an enlarged version of the 12 point version of the font; the display version
    has much less obtrusive serifs, of course.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-29 21:22:06'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Really? I didn't know. I have the suite, so...\r\n\r\nBut the fonts bundled
    with the beta seem to be the regular core Adobe fonts, sans any version of Adobe
    Jenson Pro. I would rather have that in lieu of having two different Garamonds.\r\n\r\nBut
    what am I complaining about? I already have the font. I'm just really interested
    in Arno and curious about the choice to use it in this bundle over Adobe Jenson
    Pro.\r\n\r\nThanks Thomas!"
  created: '2006-12-29 22:34:44'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Linda, are you commenting on the upright capitals or the italics?</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    upright capitals, for the comment about the serif.  I figured the italic was the
    alternates -- that Z gave it away.  :-)  I must admit that the Light version is
    quite elegant.\r\n\r\n(One of the reasons I've always loved Poetica is the range
    of alternate characters and ligatures....)"
  created: '2006-12-29 23:50:09'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Arno Pro Light Italic 36 set at 72pts\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/italic_3424.gif]"
  created: '2006-12-29 23:59:30'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Thanks, Dan!  Even the standards are beautiful, particularly the lc f, g x,
    y, and z....
  created: '2006-12-30 01:09:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "There seems to be an influence of <a href=\"http://www.teff.nl/fonts/trinite/trinite.html\">Trinit\xE9</a>
    here, especially in the tops of the ascenders. The italic is exquisite--Slimbach
    is the grand wizard of italics. I'm wondering about the proportions of the roman
    lower case. I want to see some PDFs with text size....\r\n\r\n[edit: link repaired]"
  created: '2006-12-30 02:56:27'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "[ > There seems to be an influence of Trinit\xE9 here\r\nbroken link]"
  created: '2006-12-30 19:24:14'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>There seems to be an influence of [...]</em>\r\n\r\nAFAIK, Slimbach
    only looks at other typefaces when he wants to make sure he's not doing something
    that someone else already did. That seems to be the only way other people's work
    influence his (unless he's doing a revival).\r\n\r\n> <em>I want to see some PDFs
    with text size\u2026.</em>\r\n\r\nPlease don't do any judgement based on this
    (beta) version of the font. Much have changed since, and this version is not even
    properly hinted."
  created: '2007-01-01 11:52:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">not doing something that someone else already did. That seems to be the
    only way other people\u2019s work influence his\r\n\r\nI don't think that is true
    of any artist or designer, ever. I am a big admirer of Slimbach's work, but everyone
    is influenced by what they see.  For example, above Thomas Phinney sees some relation
    of Garamond and Minion. I do too. I may be wrong about Trinit\xE9 being an influence--it
    might be something else--but everybody is influenced. \r\n\r\nThis is not to deny
    that Arno is a new design. It's just that everyone is influenced by past ideas.
    \ "
  created: '2007-01-01 14:24:22'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Slimbach certainly has a portfolio worthy of influence, and we've already
    noted a Brioso/Jenson connection, but at what point can an artist be influenced
    by himself, by his other works? Frutiger's later work is all clearly influenced
    by his earlier stuff, self admittedly. But is that looking at something you've
    done, or is it doing something you know instinctively?\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-01 21:17:35'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>at what point can an artist be influenced by himself, by his other works?</em>\r\n\r\ni
    think it's inevitable to rework your own stuff. i often find that i want to do
    at least 2 versions of of typeface and often more. sometimes the changes you want
    to make are enough to make the typeface into something entirely new. sometimes
    you want to go back to a typeface you've worked on in the past and apply accumulated
    experience to redoing a new version, and it turns out to be something significantly
    different, ala Proxima Nova, Maple or Apex New."
  created: '2007-01-01 21:36:57'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: Influenced by the  subconscious
  created: '2007-01-01 21:40:49'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: "Great typeface like anything Robert Slimbach has done.\r\n\r\nMay you have
    fun to key Arno Pro in \"Google Images\"? Its not what a typophile contributor
    can expect."
  created: '2007-01-04 10:07:52'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Oy vey! I just found Arno while disabling all the Apple display fonts I never
    use and it's fantastic!
  created: '2007-01-17 03:49:21'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "That's similar to how I found it. It doesn't install into the normal Adobe
    font folder. It installs it in one of the system libraries. I thought that was
    weird. Never would have noticed it had I not been looking for what <cite>might</cite>
    have been installed!\r\n\r\nTricky, you Adobe! Tricky!"
  created: '2007-01-17 10:08:10'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: I just found it too. It is gorgeous! And I like how it has optimized weight
    by point size, clever! I just found a new workhorse text face!
  created: '2007-01-18 19:03:00'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I must say, of everyone I know who's into type, Robert Slimbach is the only
    one who spends zero time and effort looking at other people's stuff. What Miguel
    said. I'm sure occasionally one of us tries to show him something, but that's
    about it.\r\n\r\nHe has an amazing eye, though. \"Move that top anchor point on
    the lower bowl about two units to the left,\" he'll suggest when looking at an
    outline in the typeface I'm working on....\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-01-27 00:17:09'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "So is this the new optical naming convention that Adobe is going to be using?
    Or will it change to the standard Caption, Regular, etc., when \"released\"?\r\n\r\nI
    must say, I prefer it this way. "
  created: '2007-01-27 02:53:44'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "I do as well.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-27 03:38:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I must say, of everyone I know who\u2019s into type, Robert Slimbach is
    the only one who spends zero time and effort looking at other people\u2019s stuff.\r\n\r\nThomas,
    surely you are not saying that Slimbach spent zero time and effort studying Garamond
    and Jenson. And if I read you rightly you acknowledge an influence of Garamond
    on Minion and Jenson on Arno. So you seem to be contradicting what Miguel said
    when he wrote that Slimbach is only influenced by other's work when \"he's doing
    a revival\". \r\nYet you say \"what Miguel said.\"\r\n\r\nI am puzzled. "
  created: '2007-01-27 03:41:55'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I think he meant looking at other designer's current work like Hoefler and
    Frere-Jones' Requiem, as Arno was compared to above.\r\n\r\nAs to the Garamond
    and Jenson stuff, staring at those works just has to ingrain the letterforms and
    shapes in your head until that becomes the way you see things from then on."
  created: '2007-01-27 03:55:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I don't think that Stephen Coles was implying any influence of Hoefler on
    Slimbach, just that they were striving for the same kind of aesthetic quality--a
    highly elegant look, with a touch of calligraphic influence, or some such. And
    indeed I find it far-fetched that Hoefler has had any influence on Slimbach. \r\n\r\nI
    do think Slimbach has had more recent influences than Garamond and Jenson, though.
    I find it hard to imagine that Myriad could have be created as it is without Frutiger's
    prior and ground-breaking creation of his self-named typeface. Though Myriad is
    a significantly different design, I think almost all type designers--probably
    including Slimbach and Frutiger--would agree that Frutiger's design had a significant
    influence on Myriad, and not just by reaction.\r\n\r\nI don't think that acknowledging
    such influences takes away anything at all from Slimbach's greatness as a type
    designer. For me he is one of the handful of greatest at work today. "
  created: '2007-01-27 04:41:42'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Yes, I was thinking of work from the last quarter-century in particular.
    And of course when I referred to the relationship of Garamond Premier and Minion,
    I wasn't saying that Minion was particularly directly inspired by Claude Garamond's
    work, just that I think of it as a modern typeface inspired by that period.\r\n\r\nI
    think that acknowledging influences is a fine thing, and I don't think that being
    influenced is bad. I'm just saying that more of what Robert does (in non-revival
    faces) is coming from his own head. I don't know that this makes his work less
    similar to other typefaces, I'm just saying that he tends not to pay much attention
    to what other designers are currently doing. It's just one of his many quirks.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-01-27 08:10:58'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: "Slimbach is a wizard of italics? Perhaps, perhaps. But that doesn't explain
    why the lowercase italics are so similar to Palatino's. Am I alone of such opinion?\r\n\r\nOf
    course, if I was Slimbach, Palatino's italics is what I'd try to improve upon
    in my ultimate text typeface."
  created: '2007-01-27 14:39:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">from the last quarter-century\r\n\r\nSo far as I have learned, in general
    creative work is strongly informed by the work of the previous generation in the
    field, both by direct influence and reaction. Once creative thinkers and workers
    are beyond their formative stages--in which they are indeed decisively influenced--they
    often are driven more by their own creative program for themselves, and the  needs
    of the broader culture, rather than their peers. Hence Thomas's observation about
    Slimbach is plausible to me. \r\n\r\nStill, people usually have an awareness of
    their peers and sometimes a competitiveness, though this varies with the person.
    And I think it is quite difficult even for a person himself or herself to be fully
    aware of influences, past or peers. As David noted, such influences may be unconscious,
    but none the less real. \r\n\r\n>lowercase italics are so similar to Palatino\u2019s\r\n\r\nI
    don't see it. What are you seeing there that is particularly similar?  "
  created: '2007-01-27 15:17:19'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: "William, don't mind me. I think I was a bit too reactive in this case. It's
    just that to me Arno Pro Light lc italics in the picture posted by Dan have the
    same feel to it as Palatino. I haven't studied them enough to pinpoint how that
    comes about. They aren't too similar, no - I take that back.\r\n\r\nJust forget
    it, okay?"
  created: '2007-01-28 06:07:39'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Thomas, can you say anything about the optical size naming conventions used
    on Arno Pro? As we mentioned, some of us kinda like it. Is that where Adobe is
    leaning with future typefaces?
  created: '2007-01-28 16:41:57'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "It was something we were experimenting with in pre-release versions, but
    it did not make it into the final fonts.\r\n\r\nAlthough the new naming convention
    worked well for most typographers among our testers, to whom its usage was obvious,
    overall it caused increased confusion. Less typographically savvy users were particularly
    uncertain about how to deal with it.\r\n\r\nFor Adobe, it also introduced a legacy
    issue: what would we do with the existing fonts with the older optical-size naming
    convention? Either we change their style names - a major break in compatibility
    - or we live with two different standards.\r\n\r\nIn the end, we decided that
    simply keeping with the existing scheme was the best of the alternatives. For
    Arno, we minted a new size name of \"small text\" in between \"caption\" and \"regular,\"
    for the 10 pt optical size. Although we might come up with new names, simply prefixing
    \"small\" or \"large\" in front of the existing labels would give us enough optical
    sizes to play with for pretty much any purpose.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-01-29 22:15:05'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I figured as much. Trying to spec \"Arno Pro Light Italic 36 at 72pts\" would
    confuse the heck out of a somebody. I'm glad that you guys are thinking of ways
    to make optical sizing more useful/understandable for average people as well as
    typographers. \r\n\r\nIt's not like the old days, not that I was even alive during
    the old days, when spec'ing 14pt automatically meant the 14pt optical because
    there wasn't a choice. \r\n\r\nI tried to get someone to understand optical sizing,
    but they kept asking why Times New Roman wouldn't do that for them in MS Word.
    Oh well :)"
  created: '2007-01-30 03:33:00'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Understandable. 'Tis unfortunate for the typopgraphers among us. For me its
    easier and involves less thought than "small text" (because the next question
    would be how small?). It was a novel idea though.
  created: '2007-01-31 18:37:41'
- author:
    name: Dave Bayer
    picture: 112234
  body: "What a beautiful font! You guys know too much; x-heights and the Venetian
    influence are a distraction to identifying this font. In the dimension that is
    pure Slimbach, without historical precedent, I see \"Arno\" as a contraction of
    \"Warnock\", interpolating between that font and Minion.\r\n\r\nI must confess
    to having downloaded the CS3 beta just to get a first look at Arno Pro. I use
    TeX and LaTeX for mathematical typesetting, so the digital equivalent of struggling
    to get the cellophane off the next Beatles LP is a half hour of shell scripting
    and writing font description files. My conclusion: I need to wait for the remaining
    light opticals, if they're coming. ArnoPro-Light36pt can't be intended for 11pt
    body text.\r\n\r\nTo my naive eye, light fonts seem to be in identity crisis now.
    Are they supposed to \"look\" light on the page, or offer a reasonable alternative
    to regular? One sees good examples of each view. I'm writing a textbook to either
    be viewed on screen or laser printed. After many experiments I've concluded that
    most regular fonts are too heavy, reflecting a historical traditon that predates
    high resolution screens and printing. The only font that I can stay with for more
    than an hour of writing is Warnock Pro Light.\r\n\r\nSo I'm dying of curiousity
    to see the rest of the ArnoPro light series. The regular has such an authority
    on the page, with its weight perfectly balancing the glyph shapes, that I fear
    the light series will opt to \"look\" light, and not vie for the same authority
    on the page."
  created: '2007-02-12 15:18:40'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: In my mind, "Light" is a weight that can only be used at larger sizes. The
    details needed to maintain the design would disappear at smaller sizes. I wouldn't
    be surprised if they didn't have "Light" at the smaller optical sizes.
  created: '2007-02-12 18:33:15'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>So I\u2019m dying of curiousity to see the rest of the ArnoPro light
    series.</em>\r\n\r\nDon't hold your breath. Arno Pro's Light weight is only intended
    for Display (above 22pt) sizes.\r\n\r\nTiffany is right. It'd be nonsense to have
    a \"Light Caption\" weight, for example.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-12 18:43:16'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "The color is spot on...it looks perfect at very small sizes. I've been looking
    for an OpenType text face such as this to buy for some time and\u2014 quite frankly,
    this is the best I've seen thus far."
  created: '2007-02-12 21:59:57'
- author:
    name: Dave Bayer
    picture: 112234
  body: "Here's part of a footnote set in WarnockPro-LightCapt. It has the authority
    I crave in Arno Pro light caption. I'm betting the rest of the light series simply
    wasn't ready.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/WarnockLightCaption_5678.jpg]"
  created: '2007-02-13 03:28:51'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>I\u2019m betting the rest of the light series simply wasn\u2019t ready.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    worked on the production of Arno Pro, and there was never a plan for a \"Light
    series\". Perhaps Robert thinks the design, design space or style doesn't lend
    itself to it. I can ask him, if you want.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.adobe.com/type/browser/P/P_1738.html\">Garamond
    Premier Pro</a>, Robert's work prior to Arno Pro, only has Light Display as well."
  created: '2007-02-13 17:09:25'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I think the details and characteristics in Warnock were strong enough to withstand
    having a light caption weight. I don't think the same can be said of Arno.
  created: '2007-02-13 17:46:48'
- author:
    name: Dave Bayer
    picture: 112234
  body: "Thanks all! While I think Arno Pro is an amazing font, I'll stay with Warnock
    Pro light for math typesetting, which harmonizes well with Hermann Zapf's Euler
    math fonts.\r\n\r\nEven Warnock Pro light falls apart a bit on a 600 dpi laser
    printer. It looks great at 1200 dpi. Maybe in another decade fonts will be generally
    be a bit lighter, to match future displays and printers."
  created: '2007-02-13 23:11:02'
- author:
    name: Luis Moreira
    picture: 112310
  body: "Hi... \r\nit's my debut in typophile, and I'm happy that I start it speaking
    about Robert Slimbach.\r\nAs a graphic designer I must say Robert still surprises
    me after all those great typefaces he had done. \r\nArno is wonderful. Congratulations
    to him and to the ones who worked with him in Arno Pro.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-05 18:29:13'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Welcome to Typophile! An interesting thing about Arno Pro, as attested by
    Thomas Phinney, is that the version we see is only a beta version.\r\n\r\nWhen
    I showed him a piece of work that I did with it, it took him a second to figure
    it out because the current version's lower case e is now totally different! Who
    would have thought that there could be more to work on that would totally change
    the appearance of a typeface, especially on a typeface that for anyone other than
    Slimbach would've been complete a long time ago..."
  created: '2007-03-05 18:58:05'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I don't know about *totally* different. But it has been tweaked a bit, I
    think.\r\n\r\nI really look forward to the actual release of the typeface. It
    will ship in the boxes with the next Creative Suite and the CS applications, so
    the March 27th launch should reveal the availability date.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-03-12 22:31:03'
date: '2006-12-28 03:42:04'
title: Why Arno Pro instead of Adobe Jenson?

---
