---
author:
  name: TGaskin
body: "I am a design student who does freelance work as well. I do work for a client
  quite often that just won't let me hyphenate anything, even when the column length
  is fairly short, which creates an awful rag. She says it is too hard to read. Does
  anyone have a suggestion on how to explain to her the importance of a clean rag,
  or is there anyone who knows some proven statistic that hyphenated text isn't hard
  to read? Newspapers hyphenate all the time. What would you do in this situation?\r\n\r\n-Thomas"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Show her examples of anything with a narrow column. Is the text justified?
  created: '2006-12-29 02:01:13'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I have to admit this made me laugh. I would tell her with a high degree of
    confidence that an absolute no-hyphenation rule would be seen as extreme by typographic
    experts. There are many books with a variety of closely related by no means identical
    suggestions about how to handle when & how to hyphenate. What is seen as the desirable
    sweet spot is something that has moved over time. Still, why not show her two
    or three? Maybe you can agree to something if she has some postive examples to
    look at rather than just an idea to cling to. Also, to my (admittedly non-encyclopedic)
    knowlege there are no major publications use that rule either.\r\n\r\nThis said,
    I personally think rag fear is overstated. I like a left aligned text with a light
    rag very much. But this sort of thing enters the realm of taste. Without seeing
    a sample it really is hard to say what I think. What do you mean by 'fairly short'
    BTW?\r\n\r\nWhat do my fellow typophiles think? Could any case whatever be made
    for an absolutely unhyphenated treatement? In either Justified or Unjustified
    mode?\r\n\r\nWait! I just though of one situation in which such a rule might make
    sense: A children's book. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: elizabeth_355
      picture: 112087
    body: "I am the author, typesetter, cover artist, and publisher of a book without
      added hyphenation. It is a reference book for medical transcriptionists. These
      are people who need to know whether a hyphen is part of a word or not. The book
      ... actually two books, it's in the second edition now ... is set in two columns
      & admittedly has some ugly paragraphs, but I couldn't do anything else under
      the circumstances. You can see what I'm talking about at http://www.blowtorch-press.com/m06sampl.pdf
      .\r\n\r\nElizabeth Dearborn\r\nBlowtorch Press"
    created: '2007-01-03 02:14:53'
  created: '2006-12-29 02:05:08'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'Rule 1: Avoid justified text. Everything will look and read better thereafter.'
  created: '2006-12-29 02:37:06'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: That's my preference too.
  created: '2006-12-29 03:06:29'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "As a general principle, I avoid hyphenation as well (I like setting full
    pages in bigger text), but it <em>is</em> difficult in narrow columns.  \r\n\r\nYou
    might want to trot out Bringhurst's thoughts on appropriate type/column size --
    he does a great job of explaining the how's and why's -- and see if you can't
    reach some sort of middle ground.\r\n\r\nI've done this with many clients, and
    while not all of them sign up, many do, and most of the rest are willing to discuss
    it intelligently.\r\n\r\n(We won't discuss those who won't.... (haha) )\r\n\r\nJustification
    in narrow columns without hyphenation is a definite no-no...."
  created: '2006-12-29 03:24:06'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "It is impossible to change a client's mind on something like this. Don't
    try.\r\n\r\nUsually you can correct bad rag by selectively moving short words
    from the end of one line to the beginning of the next. If necessary, tighten the
    spacing of a line to pull a word up."
  created: '2006-12-29 03:40:23'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I am a design student who does freelance work as well.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>It
    is impossible to change a client\u2019s mind on something like this. Don\u2019t
    try.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou're a college student. Your client probably thinks that
    she knows more than you, and regardless of whether or not she does, she's probably
    not going to change her mind for you. So just be happy that you're in college
    and you can actually find paid freelance work; here in DC the only students I
    know getting freelance work are either doing it for free or for so little money
    that they're probably spending more running comps on their own inkjet printers
    than they're making on the jobs."
  created: '2006-12-29 03:48:13'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I have a client who's the same about hyphenatioin and it is VERY hard to
    change their minds. Maybe you can work on her to increase the column measure?\r\n\r\nI
    hate clients who are that rigid. I have another client who hates green. How do
    you hate green? But she probably \"read something somewhere\" that says hyphenation
    is hard to read and once they get that into their head it's a losing battle."
  created: '2006-12-29 04:56:09'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: "\"She probably \u201Cread something somewhere\u201D that says hyphenation
    is hard to read and once they get that into their head it\u2019s a losing battle.\"\r\n\r\nThat's
    why you need to gently suggest more reading. \r\n:-P\r\n\r\nI usually pull out
    the Chicago Manual of Style and Bringhurst.\r\n\r\nI've had a couple of these
    clients before. They drive me nuts, and then I become downright hysterical when
    they ask for the double spaces after sentences to be put back in."
  created: '2006-12-29 05:16:18'
- author:
    name: cooper design
    picture: 111844
  body: 'You have only one argument at your disposal: tell her that hyphenating saves
    money. If she doesn''t go for it, move on to thinking about something else.'
  created: '2006-12-29 06:25:02'
- author:
    name: TGaskin
  body: "Thanks for your suggestions, I like Thomas', money is always the issue. I'll
    show her a few examples of why hyphens help, and maybe bring in the Chicago Manual
    of Style and Bringhursts Elements of Typographic Style.\r\n\r\nThanks for your
    thoughts.\r\n\r\n-Thomas"
  created: '2006-12-29 07:46:14'
- author:
    name: BradB
    picture: 111285
  body: "Huh. I always turn off automatic hyphenation. I just don't like seeing little
    dashes litter the ends of lines of text. But I don't use full justification either,
    and I always try to make the rag fairly even, putting in line breaks where appropriate.\r\n\r\nI've
    read Bringhurst several times, and the book is sitting within 18 inches of me,
    as usual.\r\n\r\nHave I been wrong all this time?"
  created: '2006-12-29 14:53:52'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Also, to my (admittedly non-encyclopedic) knowlege there are no major publications
    use that rule either.\"\r\n\r\nWell, every major online publication has to adhere
    to that by default. At least for now. ;o)\r\n\r\nAs for hyphenation, that seems
    mainly to be to reduce rivers and gaps in the column itself...not necessarily
    to fix the rag. I don't mind a pronounced rag.\r\n\r\nIn the end, I wouldn't dwell
    on this issue too much. If anything, produce a separate version with hyphenation
    for your portfolio if it really gets to you."
  created: '2006-12-29 14:58:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">anything with a narrow column. Is the text justified?\r\n\r\nI just checked
    the front pages at newsdesigner.com, and almost all regular text in newspapers
    is set in justified, narrow columns--with hypenation, of course. "
  created: '2006-12-29 15:28:20'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I wouldn't look to newspapers for elegant typesetting, I have seem some pretty
    appalling rivers, loose lines and widows even in the paper of record (the NY Times).
    Setting justified type in a narrow column does create problems - but so does ragging
    and in a multi-column design like most papers rag right could get ugly. I notice
    they use rag more for opinion pieces, reviews, commentary rather than reporting.\r\n\r\nI
    have noticed a bias on this site against justified type which I don't think is
    quite fair - in many instances it is easier to read and cleaner than rag. I am
    leary of anybody - designer, teacher or client - who establishes absolute \"rules\"
    to govern design. The only rule should be what works best for that particular
    job, given its content, purpose, constraints.\r\n\r\nYou're a student, you will
    learn as you continue to work that you need to pick your battles. Some things
    are worth going to the mat for, others not. Which is not to say that you shouldn't
    want each job to look as good as it can. But not every job will end up in your
    portfolio and maybe your time is better spent looking for new clients than arguing
    hyphenation with the one you already have. Sometimes a client just wants to piss
    on a job too, and you have to let them. They feel like they aren't getting their
    money's worth if they don't put you thru your paces. Decide what you can and will
    concede and what you will fight for."
  created: '2006-12-29 15:43:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I would ask the client what newspapers or magazines they enjoy reading -
    then show them the level of hyphenation in those publications.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si"
  created: '2006-12-29 15:44:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sometimes you just can't change a clients mind. Some folks are just rigid
    and entrenched in their thinking. You can plead your case and site references
    in books and show good examples. If that doesn't work, just set it her way and
    move on. Frustrating as it may be, it is her job and her money. You can't please
    all of the people all of the time.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-12-29 15:50:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Well put, Patty. \r\n\r\nSetting in narrow columns causes problems whatever
    rule you follow with respect to line endings. My point in citing newspaper practice
    is just to indicate that the burden of proof, given the overwhelming practice
    to the contrary, is on those who claim that justified text is inherently inferior.
    I could have cited also almost all extended text in books--which with the wider
    measures is easier to set well. \r\n\r\nThe perfectly even word spacing you can
    get by rags is a definite plus, but I agree with you that this advantage is often
    outweighed by the advantages of justified type. "
  created: '2006-12-29 15:59:09'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "You may consider showing your client the same work with and without hypentation
    and a couple of arguments from Bringhurst once. Do it respectfully, you don't
    want to damage your client's pride.\r\n\r\nIf she doesn`t accept the problem,
    then it's an ego and control issue and you have to deal it with a different strategy.\r\n\r\nI'm
    planning to talk this topic with my own boss starting January, everybody is doing
    ragged texts without care of hypentation and short words being kicked out of the
    paragraph.\r\n\r\n\r\nRegarding rag vs hypentation we already had a lengthy discussion
    of the topic:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/16395?from=0&comments_per_page=50\r\n\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-12-29 17:19:10'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Nothing like a server error when you've just typed a lengthy comment...\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I don't have time to read 4 pages of no-doubt interesting debate on the subject
    except to say that well set type is readable whether justified or ragged and which
    you choose is a matter both of personal aesthetics and function. \r\n\r\nJustified
    type gives a cleaner, more formal appearance. It looks better under centered heads.
    Ragged type is more friendly. To a student my advice is to try both where applicable
    and learn how they work for you. They can both be used in the same job: for example
    in book design I'll often justify the main text and use ragged for sidebars or
    captions to set them apart."
  created: '2006-12-29 17:54:50'
- author:
    name: dsb
    picture: 111042
  body: "You could also try asking your client to do some editing to improve the rag.
    Since the problem with not hyphenating arrises when long words are used in narrow
    column widths, you may see if she would be willing to opt for a shorter word in
    place of one that creates a large gap in the rag. That is of course if the rag
    is worth it to her. It is hard to imagine that\r\nif she is so bothered by a hyphen,
    she wouldn't notice a really awkwardly shaped column created by a bad rag.\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-30 18:40:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Does anyone have a suggestion on how to explain to her the importance
    of a clean rag</em>\r\n\r\nShe's not wrong. \r\nShe just thinks that a hyphenation
    is more unsightly than a rough rag.\r\nI agree. \r\nEvenness of word-spacing is
    not the only reason for ragging -- it also does away with hyphenation, and consequently
    any ragged copy that still has hyphenation looks wrong."
  created: '2006-12-31 05:09:22'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "I will side in part with Nick here. I've worked with clients in the past
    where hyphenation was a strict no-no. All documents were bilingual and they had
    to look as much alike as possible and hyphenating French is tricky. \r\n\r\nI
    personally turn off auto hyphenation in whatever layout program I'm using for
    the job and work from there. I find if it bothers me that much a little minor
    adjustment to the kerning helps. Maybe that's sacrilege to some here though."
  created: '2006-12-31 06:17:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Evenness of word-spacing is not the only reason for ragging \u2014 it also
    does away with hyphenation\r\n\r\nThat's interesting. Personally I feel that hyphenation
    is much more of a disruption to reading than is slightly varying word space from
    line to line. So now I will pay attention to the difference between rag right
    without hyphenation vs justified with hyphenation, and see if it changes my ideas
    about this. \r\n\r\nStill, I think other variables--like measure and leading--have
    a bigger impact. \r\n\r\n[edit: I meant to write: *much* bigger impact.]"
  created: '2006-12-31 15:30:09'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: And space between columns.
  created: '2006-12-31 15:45:30'
- author:
    name: bokkah
    picture: 111697
  body: "is the final verdict for the \"saviour\" hyphen on asthetic design or information?\r\nThe
    variables are immense but in the end it boils down to familiarity with the reader.
    Who's reading it and are they used to hyphens, does the hyphen read confortably
    with the audience? of course it does. It's everywhere and anywhere. Use it with
    the satisfaction of knowing that it will not hinder leagibility. What does become
    problamatic is extreme short lines with less than 30 characters, under 50 is scary
    in itself. \r\n\r\nIn my personal opinion, hyphens are removed when the copy is
    short, sweet and for advertising purposes only... a quick scan read if you must.
    ( outdoor, posters, magazine ads, etc) but when it comes to brochures or copy
    in which the audience will be dwelving into an informatic zone than I hyphen  it!"
  created: '2006-12-31 15:54:59'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "What an interesting topic. As a typesetter I use to have this dilemna all
    the time. The rule of thumb for our shop was -- if it is advertising type - then
    no hyphens. This held true for all Headlines - and short blurbs on back of book
    covers, etc. We did our best making nice Coca-Cola shaped rags...\r\n\r\nBut when
    it came to justified type - we did use hyphens but no more than 1 in a row --
    and no rivers allowed. \r\n\r\nYes, it was time consuming, but our customers were
    use to having type set this way, and they were use to paying for the extra time
    it took to get it right..."
  created: '2006-12-31 19:59:50'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I'd rather see a rag that looks like it was gouged into the page with a rusty
    knife than hyphenation of words with fewer than four syllables. The way I see
    it, a rough rag adds character to the page; just as justification once reminded
    the reader that someone spent hours tweaking the spacing on jobsticks to get justified
    type, a rough rag can be a reminder that just because the machine can make it
    (relatively) easy to perfectly justify type, one can turn that feature off.
  created: '2006-12-31 23:31:33'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Most of the times rough rags are a sign of careless typesetting, sometimes
    they're a choice but I find very annoying there to be short words hanging out
    of the paragraph on long lines as much as notticeable short lines, it's just random
    noise being trhowed into the page.\r\n\r\nI also prefer to have an hypentated
    verb, adverb or noun rather than an article, pronoun, conjunction or preposition
    on the end of the line because this disrupts sintactycal prediction when reading
    but verbs and nouns are easy to predict sintactically when hypentated.\r\n\r\nHypentation
    is harder english and french but in spanish hypentation is quite easy (since it's
    syllabical).\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2007-01-01 01:53:33'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Except in newspapers, hyphenating proper nouns in English is severely frowned
    upon (Chicago, APA, etc.) anyway: papers \"get away\" with it because of the narrow
    columns.\r\n\r\n<em>I also prefer to have an hypentated verb, adverb or noun rather
    than an article, pronoun, conjunction or preposition....</em>\r\n\r\nUm, well
    it's hard enough to find to find an article, pronoun, conjunction or preposition
    in English or French that is even hyphenate-able.  (\"L-e\"?  \"Sh-e\"? \"E-t\"?
    \"T-o\"?  C'mon!)  \r\n\r\nThere are lots of reasons to have rough rags, but I
    wouldn't say that the majority come from \"careless typesetting.\"  \"Ignorant
    typesetting,\" maybe.  :-P\r\n\r\nThere's a difference....\r\n\r\n(This from someone
    who spends her weekends finding silly hyphenation in newspapers!)"
  created: '2007-01-01 02:34:50'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "> <em>I am a design student</em>\r\n\r\nTo my students interested in this
    subject I always recommend two nice pieces by John Berry, written for creativepro.com:
    <a href=\"http://www.creativepro.com/story/feature/8656.html\" target=\"_blank\"><em>The
    Justification for Hyphenation</em></a> and <a href=\"http://www.creativepro.com/story/feature/8868.html?origin=story\"
    target=\"_blank\"><em>The Hyphenation of Justification</em></a>. Read them, they
    are pretty good. And try to make your client read them. Of course, I am not sure
    that reading those short essays could change her mind, but it never hurts to try,
    no?\r\n\r\nMy own take on this issue is fairly simple: hyphenation is beneficial
    for the readability of the body text (justified <em>and</em> FLRR), and a no-no
    in display typography."
  created: '2007-01-01 03:15:17'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Linda I didn't mean that I prefer hypentated nouns rather than an hypentated
    article. \r\n\r\nI tried to say that hypentated nouns, verbs, and adverbs (generally
    long words) are not disruptive when reading because they are easily predicted
    using syntactic information.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand pronouns, conjunctions or
    prepositions (mostly short words) can be more disruptive when reading if they
    are found at the end of a line because the sense of the text breaks.\r\n\r\nShort
    words at the end of the lines tend to appear much more in hard rags because of
    the attitude commonly assumed when setting them, mostly if you think that a rag
    doesn't need to be tuned. \r\n\r\nOne of the most annoying things for me is to
    find a short word of the aforementioned kind at the end of a long line.\r\n\r\nShit,
    it's hard to be coherent on a language you have never spoken.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2007-01-01 03:29:05'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em> it\u2019s hard to be coherent on a language you have never spoken.</em>\r\n\r\n:-)
    \ H\xE9ctor, that hasn't stopped some of the clients I've had who have asked me
    to edit work originally written in a language other than English and who have
    \"translated\" it by looking up the words in a dictionary.\r\n\r\nAnd who've had
    the temerity to tell me I did a lousy job fixing it after!\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-01 17:07:41'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>...that hasn\u2019t stopped some of the clients I\u2019ve had who have
    asked me to edit work originally written in a language other than English and
    who have \u201Ctranslated\u201D it by looking up the words in a dictionary.</cite>\r\n\r\nLinda,
    I get the impression that you're a very patient person."
  created: '2007-01-01 19:30:56'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Linda, I get the impression that you\u2019re a very patient person.</em>\r\n\r\nROFLMAO!
    \ It's more like I have a low tolerance for bad grammar and people are (usually,
    but not always) willing to pay to have me fix it.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-01 20:01:05'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "Dwiggins Hyphenation Rules\r\n\r\n(or lack thereof) (or perhaps it was, whatever
    fits is what we want)\r\n\r\nThose of you who attended my talk at TypeCon this
    summer may remember this image, but I thought it sufficiently <em>\xE0 propos</em>
    to post it in this hyphenation thread. This is the spine art from <em>The Bomb
    That Wouldn't Go Off</em> (Boston: Bruce Humphries, 1941).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/shelfbackhyphenation_6158.jpg]\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    my first line should have been, <strong>In Hyphenation, Dwiggins Rules!</strong>"
  created: '2007-01-02 00:13:40'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Uh... Bruce... where are the hyphens on that spine LOL?\r\n\r\nAnyone remember
    this \"gem\" of hyphenation courtesy of David Carson (and a previous thread)?
    Doesn't get more egregious than this, and people worship him.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/comparison-covers_3944_3664.jpg]"
  created: '2007-01-02 00:21:15'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Ah, Patty, that's because P.T. Barnum was right: <em>You can fool some of
    the people all of the time, and all of the people some of the time, but you can't
    fool all of the people all of the time.</em>\r\n\r\nSome serious folks got punk'd
    on this one....  "
  created: '2007-01-02 00:26:43'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: ">It is impossible to change a client\u2019s mind on something like this.
    Don\u2019t try.\r\n\r\nI do not agree that. As graphic designer we've to educate
    client or anybody else. Sometime it's nice to do a job without hyphenation and
    sometime it's not. At my opinion, the client pay for our knowledge, so he has
    to have confident in our hyphenation suggestion. Personally I do not accept the
    client come over my shoulder to direct my graphic design choice."
  created: '2007-01-02 01:21:47'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/picture-5264_3480.jpg]\r\nAndre, have
    you met Hrant?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/picture-1250_3662.gif]"
  created: '2007-01-02 03:17:30'
- author:
    name: mjpatrick
    picture: 111908
  body: "There's two suitable eye icons for Photoshop CS3, right there... OK I am
    derailing. :P\r\n\r\nGetting back on track, I think both pattyfab and dezcom hit
    the nail on the head with their suggestions. \r\n\r\nSometimes you have to compromise
    what you've been taught in order to try to make a customer's idea happen. Even
    when you know what the customer is asking for will not work, you have to show
    it- where your talents come in is making it look good. It's not always easy. That's
    just how it is sometimes."
  created: '2007-01-02 03:55:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/turk_4768.jpg]\r\n\r\nDetail of front
    page of Zaman newspaper (Turkey), Jan 1. 2007."
  created: '2007-01-02 04:43:13'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Dang that is the longest ladder I have ever seen. \r\n\r\nOf course I don't
    usually have to deal with words like cumhurbaskanligi, anamuhalafet, izlediklerinin
    and vurgularken...."
  created: '2007-01-02 05:07:53'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Yes, this is also a big problem in languages like German in which two words
    are often combined to make one big long wienerschnitzel.
  created: '2007-01-02 07:17:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Holy shamoly, that is an amazing example Nick!\r\nIs that normal in Turkey
    or just an example one bad job? \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-02 14:57:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I've no idea Chris, it suddenly occurred to me that browsing around the world
    at Newseum might be interesting, and when I came to Turkey's sole posting, I noticed
    the profuse hyphenation.\r\n\r\nI'm sure that if that sort of thing became standard
    in English, readers would take it in stride. After all, the convention of spaces
    between words doesn't bear much relationship to where people actually break words
    when they're talking. "
  created: '2007-01-02 19:00:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That's a very impressive piece of publishing and typography.\r\nThe non-hyphenation
    seems perfectly logical and at home, as you're getting a \"rough\" rag anyway
    from the short one-line entries, and because many entries are two- or three-line
    paragraphs that end in short lines.\r\n\r\nElizabeth, have you considered incorporating
    true italics and small caps?\r\n(Sorry, you post an example on Typophile for one
    reason, and people immediately notice something else about it...)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: elizabeth_355
      picture: 112087
    body: "Thank you very much, Nick. The example is 30 pages out of a total of 728!
      The next edition will be even worse ...\r\n\r\nI typeset the book in TeX Computer
      Modern, which includes true small caps, slanted, and italic. I used italic for
      things like titles of books and movies, and slanted for things like the comments
      at the top of some of the pages, also for names of pathogens such as Cryptosporidium
      parvum. The contents page is in small caps."
    created: '2007-01-03 15:08:59'
  created: '2007-01-03 05:55:30'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Zaman seems to use forced justification for the last line of the main story
    paragraphs, with as few paragraphs as possible, which seems to put unnecessary
    constraint on an already labour-intensive (in terms of time available) job. \r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-03 13:52:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>true small caps</em>\r\n\r\nI was looking at the country abbreviations,
    where the small caps are set at a smaller size than the adjacent roman, and jumped
    to the conclusion that because they are thinner, they're faux. My mistake. \r\n\r\nI
    note that you are using a double-f ligature, a very proper typographic nicety.
    If there's one thing that looks out of place -- even though with a specific hierarchical
    meaning -- it's the slanted roman. However, not an issue with your readers."
  created: '2007-01-03 17:56:30'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I think you could also lose the widow in the first paragraph on page iv and
    therefore not have that lone line dangling at the top of the next page...
  created: '2007-01-03 18:47:24'
date: '2006-12-29 01:35:16'
node_type: forum
title: Client doesn't want hyphenation

---
