---
author:
  name: david h
  picture: 110928
body: "Finally :)  my first round is ready: new original [[Hebrew]] fonts.\r\n\r\n\r\n<a
  href=\"http://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=UMT0000261#specimen\">Shirah
  Joie</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=UMT0000260\">Shirah
  25</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=UMT0000259\">Poster
  1492</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=UMT0000258\">Kitra
  77</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=UMT0000257\">Hannah
  Joie</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=UMT0000256\">Hamuel
  Nine Five</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=UMT0000255\">Ayasha</a>"
comments:
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Congratulations, David. Looking good!\r\n\r\nAt first glance I particularly
    like the calligraphic elegance of Shirah 25. In the info it refers to a PDF--where
    does one access that? "
  created: '2006-12-29 04:32:53'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Thank you, Bill.\r\n\r\n> In the info it refers to a PDF\u2014where does
    one access that?\r\n\r\nI'm looking for Grant :) "
  created: '2006-12-29 04:35:42'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> In the info it refers to a PDF.....\r\n\r\nFixed :) "
  created: '2007-01-03 22:58:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Folks, there's a sneek peek at David's forthcoming latin fonts in the PDFs
    of the Hebrew ones. I particularly like the calligraphic sloped titling font.
    Beautiful!
  created: '2007-01-04 00:22:24'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: Thank you
  created: '2007-01-04 01:30:40'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: 'I quite liked Kitra but I have two comments: it doesn''t appear from the
    pdf that the font is kerned. Also you should program your font that when there
    is no nikud under the ayin, then the alternate ayin is used. Again in the pdf
    it appears that this isn''t the case. Also with this font, I think it would be
    very useful to add a meteg and perhaps a kamatz katan and shva na. '
  created: '2007-01-27 19:32:22'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Thank you.\r\n\r\n\r\n> I think it would be very useful to add a meteg and
    perhaps a kamatz katan and shva na.\r\n\r\n?\r\n\r\nEVERYTHING is there:\r\n\r\nThe
    symbol for sheva na' is two dots arranged vertically under a consonant. The \"vocal
    sheva\" (sheva na') is a brief, neutral vowel, like the first vowel in the English
    word.\r\n\r\nTHE SAME symbol is used to represent sheva nah, and intermediate
    sheva (sheva meragef)\r\n\r\nThe vowel kamats can be either short or long. the
    SAME symbol is used to indicate both sounds. In some siddurim -- Sim Shalom,  Rinat
    Yisrael -- a different symbol is introduced to indicate kamats katan.\r\n\r\n\r\nSo,
    how do we know when the Kamats is short/katan  or long/gadol? with the Te'amim/
    cantillation marks:  if the kamats is marked with a secondary accent --  this
    is kamats gadol. A kamats before dagesh hazak is Kamats katan, since the dagesh
    hazak closes its syllable.\r\n\r\nMore grammar?   :^)\r\n\r\nYou/we can get rid
    of  Uni 05C7 (kamats katan/short)\r\n\r\nBTW, the fonts are modern Hebrew, and
    not Biblical.\r\n\r\n\r\n> there is no nikud under the ayin, then the alternate
    ayin \r\n\r\nI designed the ayin + alternate  to work perfect with nikkud, so
    no problem that the nikkud will touch the ayin. \r\n\r\n\r\nAbout the rest of
    your post -- try to be a little bit more regular  :)  so I don't feel that I'm
    talking to myself :)"
  created: '2007-01-27 21:13:58'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Where can I see the modern Hebrew font designs you created?\r\n\r\nThe shva-na
    has a few visual forms. In Hebrew publishing which I have seen the two dots next
    to each other is not used. \r\n\r\nSome publishers use a short horizontal line,
    like a dash, positioned above the letter. This is problematic when a narrow letter,
    like the vov, has a shva-na.\r\n\r\nOther publishers use a small asterisk positioned
    above the letter.\r\n\r\nBoth the meteg and shva-na are used in vocalized Hebrew
    texts. The meteg is used to indicate which syllable is emplasized in pronouncing
    that Hebrew word. \r\n\r\nThe shva-na as you mentioned is to show that the shva
    which appears below the character is pronounced long, as joined to the sound of
    the letter and vowel before it, and the letter above it. According to this grammatical
    rule, the shva-na can not appear above the first letter of the word."
  created: '2007-06-10 18:16:30'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Where can I see the modern Hebrew font designs you created?\r\n\r\nVeer.com.
    see he links"
  created: '2007-06-11 00:25:54'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I created the popular \"Purim\" or \"Purim Party\" design in Hebrew many
    years ago to match the popular \"Broadway\" design in English.\r\n\r\nI was surprised
    that the design became very popular by itself, without even \"Broadway\".\r\n\r\nBoruch
    Gorkin of Crown Heights, Brooklyn, was commissioned by Monotype to create a Hebrew
    design to match \"Ariel\". It was licensed later to Microsoft, Apple, and others.\r\n\r\nIt
    is extremely difficult to design a serif Hebrew font from a serif English font
    design, because the dominant design factor in English is vertical, while in Hebrew
    the dominant design factor is horizontal.\r\n\r\nAny ideas, anyone?"
  created: '2008-08-03 18:25:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "David, I like Ayasha.\r\n\r\n> It is extremely difficult to design a serif\r\n>
    Hebrew font from a serif English font design\r\n\r\nConsider yourselves lucky!\r\n\r\nIn
    the best case Latinization results in gimmickry. In the worst case,\r\ncultural
    assimilation; what we Armenians term as White Genocide.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-04 00:55:40'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: Hrant, Thank you.
  created: '2008-08-04 01:12:10'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nYour samples are in deed very beautiful.\r\n\r\nI thought that
    the last one, Ayasha, was the most original. \r\n\r\nAlthough \"imitation is the
    highest form of compliment\", for I could see many the origins of many designs
    in your talented work, and type designers have traditionally attached originality
    to older designs, your new original Hebrew fonts are stunning.\r\n\r\nSince I
    am most perturbed and challenged by matching Hebrew and English designs, I challenge
    you to use your design skills to match an authentic Hebrew design to an authentic
    English design. Consider the eye direction to be Hebrew-like, so users can add
    English to a predominantly Hebrew text. Also, consider the eye direction to be
    English-like, so users can add Hebrew to a predominantly English text."
  created: '2008-08-04 01:39:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> match an authentic Hebrew design to an authentic English design.\r\n\r\nDefine
    \"match\".\r\nHistorically it has sadly meant formal congruence (for example matching
    serif structures) which simply cannot be conducive to authenticity (or functionality
    in a text face). See the Hebrew efforts of Gill and Schonfield for a glimpse of
    how bad it can get; and I really haven't seen anything much better. Alphabets
    aren't art; they're more like animals. And a Canaan Dog can't be happy in a three-piece
    suit.\r\n\r\nWhat you seem to be describing later in your post is encouraging
    however. The complication is that you need a \"multilateral\" system, as opposed
    to the sadly established approach of having one font per script, which results
    in either a master-slave relationship or a two-left-feet disaster!\r\n\r\nAn optimal,
    if -I feel necessarily- complex, system would be like this:\r\nhttp://themicrofoundry.com/ss_rome2.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-04 02:09:04'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "hrant,\r\n\r\nA good match is made in heaven, don't you know? The Talmud
    claims that even though a good match is as hard to make as the splitting of the
    sea, G-d actually spends most of His \"time\" making matches.\r\n\r\nSeemingly
    it can be done. Judging from your web site, you think so too, although I didn't
    see examples of Hebrew type design there.\r\n\r\nI agree with you that it is awkward
    and even ugly to try to join most non-Roman type designs, which are horizontal
    stroke dominant together with most Roman type designs, which are vertical stroke
    dominant.\r\n\r\nHowever, when these stroke are uniform or near uniform, then
    joining them together is in deed possible.\r\n\r\nSee Boruch Gorkin's Ariel Hebrew,
    and how it successfully works with Monotype's Ariel. The same could be done with
    Linotype's Helvetica and other popular sans serif type designs.\r\n\r\nI haven't
    yet seen examples of Schonfield's work. I've seen drawings of Gill's failure (though
    David's Poster 1492 is very interesting), and even created an italic version of
    David (Mr. Itamar David's failed attempt at Romanization of Hebrew) although Hebrew
    doesn't use an italic. I think it's a great script face though.\r\n\r\nBtw, I
    am an open minded liberal, just like the next guy. So, 3 piece suits on Canaanite
    dogs don't bother me, as long as they walk besides the trees of the wild side.
    Just not in my yard,please."
  created: '2008-08-04 03:03:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Seemingly it can be done. \r\n\r\nWell, something can be done, but what?
    What has been done so far is no good. And some of what you've written* seems very
    evocative of this extant failure. Fortunately other things that you've written
    exhibit a nice departure from the established one-dimensionalism. What I have
    done myself is the only such system out there so far (except for some \"reverse-Latinization\"
    efforts, like that of Carolyn Puzzovio - but those are not multi-lateral). I hope
    it inspires Hebrew designers, and really everybody else, to go deeper than we
    collectively have so far, to go beyond the near-sighted transplantation of formal
    features.\r\n\r\n* Like: \"It is extremely difficult to design a serif Hebrew
    font from a serif English font design, because the dominant design factor in English
    is vertical, while in Hebrew the dominant design factor is horizontal.\"\r\n\r\nIf
    you'd like to read my full-length essay entitled \"Latinization: Prevention and
    Cure\" please try to get a copy of either Spatium #4, or Hyphen 2005.\r\n\r\nSchonfield:\r\nhttp://www.geocities.com/snortar/schonfield.html\r\nAlthough
    to be fair that's a reform effort more than a type design effort.\r\n\r\n> Boruch
    Gorkin\u2019s Ariel Hebrew\r\n\r\nSample?\r\n\r\n> 3 piece suits on Canaanite
    dogs don\u2019t bother me\r\n\r\nIt's the dog I'm worried about.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-04 03:16:57'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> Schonfield:  etc.\r\n\r\nBoy, that's ugly. Much worst than Gill's. Gill
    grows on you, because of the design integrity.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nDo you have a PDF
    of your article?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nI will either post or PDF a sample from Boruch.
    \r\n\r\nBtw, when he was a young student in Israel, he visited me at my home with
    my new wife, and an Apple Mac Plus (remember when?) woth Altsys Fontographer 1.1.\r\n\r\nHe
    saw me experimenting with type design, and exclaimed: \"Now, I know what I'll
    do in my life.\" He later went to art school, specialized in type design, and
    has a successful graphic art business today. Ariel Hebrew is his claim to fame.
    Needless to say, we've been good friends for about 25 years.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nOK,
    every suit will come with a mandatory mug mask to wear, stuffed in the pocket
    of every vest. If that doesn't work, uhh, uhh, uhh (I know I'll get it for this),
    I do have a gun..."
  created: '2008-08-04 04:13:55'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> Schonfield:  etc.\r\n\r\nBoy, that's ugly. Much worst than Gill's. Gill
    grows on you, because of the design integrity.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nDo you have a PDF
    of your article?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nI will either post or PDF a sample from Boruch.
    \r\n\r\nBtw, when he was a young student in Israel, he visited me at my home with
    my new wife, and an Apple Mac Plus (remember when?) woth Altsys Fontographer 1.1.\r\n\r\nHe
    saw me experimenting with type design, and exclaimed: \"Now, I know what I'll
    do in my life.\" He later went to art school, specialized in type design, and
    has a successful graphic art business today. Ariel Hebrew is his claim to fame.
    Needless to say, we've been good friends for about 25 years.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nOK,
    every suit will come with a mandatory mug mask to wear, stuffed in the pocket
    of every vest. If that doesn't work, uhh, uhh, uhh (I know I'll get it for this),
    I do have a gun..."
  created: '2008-08-04 04:14:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "My knowledge of the problem of matching Hebrew and Roman is way more limited
    than David or Israel, but for what it's worth, here's my view, just based on looking
    at English with companion Hebrew. I think that with roman and Hebrew fonts of
    even moderate contrast, the best solution is to design to keep the two scripts
    visually out of the way of one another. You can minimize the clash in a variety
    of ways, but that's about it. \r\n\r\nIf you have lower contrast 'sans' style,
    you can more easily get harmony, as you are reducing the difference between the
    'rules' for Hebrew and Roman (horizontal vs vertical stress). \r\n\r\nAlso if
    you have smaller serifs and low contrast that can still work. I put David hebrew
    font and Friz Quadrata roman together in a display situation, and that was not
    too bad.\r\n\r\nThe drawback is that the low contrast fonts for English are not
    so good for text, at least in my view. Is this also true for Hebrew? Are most
    books and newspapers in 'seriffed' fonts with noticeable contrast?\r\n\r\nAt any
    rate, for extended bilingual text I don't really see a solution that closely mixes
    text. \r\n\r\nFor roman-dominated extended text with occasional Hebrew, or Hebrew-dominated
    with occasional roman, I think Hrant is right in theory: two different specially
    designed solutions. It ought to be possible to do solutions such as Hrant advocates,
    but I haven't seen it done harmoniously either way yet, which is maybe what Israel
    is also concerned about. \r\n\r\nI find reversed-contrast roman fonts--even Bloesma's--ungainly,
    but that would be the way to go for a roman subordinate to a lot of Hebrew text.
    The harmony with the dominating Hebrew text would be paramount, rather than the
    look of the roman on its own. \r\n\r\nMy impression is that there is not much
    English dominated with a few Hebrew words here and there. The other category seems
    to be more bilingual religious texts, but I may be wrong.  "
  created: '2008-08-04 19:17:41'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: A few letters of <a href="http://www.baruchgorkin.com/apple_microsoft/index.html"
    target="_blank">Arial Hebrew</a> are on Mr Gorkin's site.
  created: '2008-08-04 20:19:07'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> The drawback is that the low contrast fonts for English are not so good
    for text, at least in my view. Is this also true for Hebrew? Are most books and
    newspapers in \u2019seriffed\u2019 fonts with noticeable contrast?\r\n\r\nThe
    daily paper Yedioth Ahronoth (tran., \u2014 latest news): headlines: Haim;  text:
    Frank-Ruhl. And this is since day one (see the samples).  Their magazine, for
    example,  '7 Days' (friday, here it's sunday) is more creative, of course.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Paper1_5147.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Paper2_4280.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\n
    The other paper Ma'ariv (trans., \u2014 evening;  I need to look for a sample;
    with this paper I grew since age 0) was the same till 1980s, more or less. The
    paper was redesigned (layout, fonts - sans instead of  serif).  Back then that
    was a big thing.  Later on  Robert  Maxwell acquired the paper ( the  Sunday Mirror,
    the Daily Mirror, the Scottish Daily Record and Sunday Mail etc etc etc etc).
    Maxwell wanted to publish  a new paper (weekly magazine); we worked on that; the
    plans were, of course, more creative and wild (layout, fonts etc etc) but he died
    in 1991 (there's big thing with money etc etc \u2014 a lot of info online) and
    so the plans (I don't know if I have samples; need to look for that). \r\n\r\nTextbook
    \u2014 The Horse #1 is Frank-Ruhl; David hebrew font. Books for kids \u2014 this
    is more the creative & wild field.\r\n\r\nMatch Latin \u2014 Non-Latin: I've tried/I'm
    trying, but sometimes I like it, sometimes not.  For example, with this one: \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LatinHebrew_5776.gif]\r\n\r\n>
    I think Hrant is right in theory: two different specially designed solutions.
    It ought to be possible to do solutions such as Hrant advocates, \r\n\r\nBoth
    of you are right, or  \"Well, this is not Mission Difficult, Mr. Hunt, it's Mission\r\nImpossible.
    Difficult should be a walk in the park for you.\"  :)\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd thank you,
    Israel. "
  created: '2008-08-04 22:16:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Do you have a PDF of your article?\r\n\r\nI would need to get the blessings
    of Spatium and Hyphen to send it out. First I'd try to get my hands on one of
    those magazine issues, since they each have a lot of great stuff. You should see
    the Hebrew+Arabic flavored Latin font in Spatium!\r\n\r\nGorkin\u2019s Hebrew
    Arial: it's nicer than I expected.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-05 02:10:57'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "hrant,\r\n\r\nI was preparing a sample of Ariel HB (for Hebrew) from the
    Mac with the standard Ariel, when you posted a link to Gorkin's web site.\r\n\r\nI
    noticed by the Mac version, the thickness of the strokes did not match, and there
    a were an \"odd couple\" together, but on the posted samples (I trust like the
    Windows version) the thickness of the strokes matched, and they looked like \"kissin'
    cousins\" together.\r\n\r\nI think Boruch designed his Ariel Hebrew at first just
    as an attractive sans Hebrew font, and later \"matched\" it to Ariel, and named
    it Ariel Hebrew. When I see him, I'll ask him.\r\n\r\nIf you notice, his Hebrew
    font has much more design integrity than the English version, which is a poor
    knock-off of Helvetica (sorry, Monotype, we designers call a spade a spade).\r\n\r\nAbout
    the article, do you still have the original file, or did they translate it?"
  created: '2008-08-07 03:52:40'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: I'm sorry. KL posted Gorkin's link to Ariel Hebrew.
  created: '2008-08-07 03:54:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I gave the magazines a Word file, plus illustrations. Spatium published it
    in English and German; Hyphen in English only. Spatium especially deserves to
    get dibs on people wanting to read it, since they originally approached me to
    write about the topic. When Hyphen wanted to publish it as well, I asked them
    to get Spatium's OK, which they did, and they got. I imagine that if another publication
    (possibly an Israeli design magazine? :-) wanted to publish it too, it wouldn't
    be a problem.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-07 04:18:15'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "How do I read it?\r\n\r\nContact Spatium? \r\n\r\nI lived in Israel, does
    that count? Although I'm not a DIB... uhh, is that politically correct? It means:
    \"D ear I sraeli B B  B rother.\" Right?\r\n\r\nI'm a design, too. AAnd I published
    a magazine. Hey, that's everything. And I blue eyes too!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-08 03:45:13'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nI'm convinced that a good matching of Roman and non-Roman is
    doable, but I can't yet imagine it for Arabic, because Arabic is a script, and
    a Roman script-like design that is Times-Romanish and serious I believe hasn't
    been designed yet.\r\n\r\nBut I believe it can be done. \r\n\r\nMaybe, when I
    finish with this advanced OpenType Biblical Hebrew stuff, I'll do that an retire...
    yes, to play golf all day, how exciting?"
  created: '2008-08-08 03:54:28'
date: '2006-12-29 04:15:37'
title: New Original Hebrew Fonts

---
