---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: "Thought I'd kick this off, with a look into my crystal ball...<OL>\r\n<LI>More
  industry consolidation, continuing the trend of 2006 when Monotype acquired Linotype.\r\n<LI>We'll
  be seeing a lot more of Calibri, as Office 2007 rolls out with it as the new default.
  \r\n<LI>Intense public debate over ClearType, with Vista, IE7 and Office 2007 having
  CT on by default and with new Microsoft document fonts targeting the rendering environment.\r\n<LI>Font
  licensing issues coming into sharp focus\u2026\r\n<UL>\r\n<LI>With high-def DVD
  formatted titles and WPF applications relying on shipping OpenType fonts.\r\n<LI>Browsers
  starting to support raw font downloads and temporary installation for Web page rendering.\r\n<LI>Font-themed
  personalities on mobile phones and other devices.  \r\n</UL>\r\n<LI>More talk but
  little action on the open source fonts front. \r\n<LI>Comic Sans Flair and Helvetica
  Flair finally being released. \r\n<LI>TypeCon Seattle will be the best ever.\r\n<LI>
  Apple announces new DRM protected font format - JobsType. Bruno Steinert comes out
  of retirement announcing new venture making JobsType fonts. \r\n<LI> FontLab produces
  XBox 360 version of FontLab\r\n \r\n</OL>\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: 'I concur with you on point #5. Hopefully, the trend will shift in 2008.'
  created: '2006-12-31 18:36:27'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: '#7 -- wonder why? :^)'
  created: '2006-12-31 18:50:12'
- author:
    name: matthew_desmond
    picture: 110578
  body: '#9 would be radical. I would never have to leave my couch. Well, I do have
    a PC with FontLab hooked up to my LCD TV so I really don''t have to leave my couch
    anyway. ;-)'
  created: '2006-12-31 18:58:06'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">#9 would be radical. \r\n\r\nThinking about it, a Wii based font editor
    would be even cooler - imagine waving that controller thingy around and drawing
    shapes.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-31 19:17:22'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: ' # 10 Adobe/MS announces FAK -- Font Activation Key  '
  children:
  - author:
      name: Si_Daniels
      picture: 110446
    body: 'Given all the Battlestar Galactica fans around here, maybe "FRAK" would
      be more likely - "Font Rights Activation Key". '
    created: '2006-12-31 19:37:40'
  created: '2006-12-31 19:32:52'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: '...or TAK -- Typeface Activation Key  (so no F word :) )'
  created: '2006-12-31 19:41:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Getting out my oh so cloudy crystal bs machine....\r\n\r\nTrends for 2007
    & 2008! The vision comes...\r\n\r\nIn spring of 2007 Woodtype will join the Script
    to make a triumphant return and cause readability mavens and purists to moan but
    extending and the life of the design trend towards embelishment & decoration.
    Apologists will point to the excellence of the core forms. Colors that dominate
    are sepia browns, pinks, oranges and dark acid greens to be replaced by light
    prussian blues, light acid greens, and candy apple red in summer. Overload of
    the senses is noted by mainstream media as elaborate pen and ink drawings a la
    'drummer hoff' are animated in tv ads. Inexpensive laser based paper cutters will
    proliferate which will give rise to decoration being cut into paper as well. The
    paper chips or chits will get everywhere. The trend will end with the brief rise
    of the tophat and spats as fall fashion.\r\n\r\nNear the end of the year the the
    above trend will burn out to bereplaced by severe & nearly sterile neo-swiss modernist
    code junky style. FontFont and other indie monos will dominate. Editors will try
    to count chracters to create perfect word squares. Contents suffers accordingly.
    The prefered photostyle will be cameraphone. Adobe will relase a filter to make
    regular photos look like cameraphone photos. It and other filters will be sold
    on itunes in bundles with other media including fonts as Apple takes a swipe at
    Linotype for grabbing it's UI ideas. A trend towards avoiding printing in black
    ink will be noted giving the monocode style a modicum of liveliness. This along
    with a trend towards unbleached paper will soften the otherwise harsh style. By
    spring of 2008 tshirts with individual mono letters will be popular letting groups
    of people make graphic statements at will. People with vowels will be popular.
    People insisting on wearing x & q will be less so. Some people will carry 3 or
    4 shirts with them to widen their expressive potential. This fashion trend will
    be killed in the summer by news coverage during the presidential race in which
    rival messages spelled out by tshit wearing ad agency paid youth sours hipsters
    on the formerly popular trend. \r\n\r\nFall will brings back the 80's high contrast
    letters closely spaced headlines and a faux naive style of layout. Hairline fonts
    will also be popular. Film sales and use rise as the 'real film' style emerges.
    Young designers complain about the expense and inconvenience of film. The many
    new ligatures available for Avant Garde are used. 'Garamonds' are everywhere.
    Palatino too. Cheap glossy thin paper comes back. Black finally comes back into
    use. In fact much talk about which black to use is noted. Varnish is popular again.
    Sepia toned photos with chemical stains are seen by Winter. Blackletter is no
    longer popular on the backs of trucks and vans. It is replaced by serif and sans
    font all-swashap expression including the now ubiquitous Comic Sans Flair and
    Helvetica Flair. This trend evetually makes it all the way into Mexico and Hawaii
    where popsickle and icecream trucks begin using all flair Comic Sans Flair. Microsoft
    releases an unusual but much needed patch to Vista a huge file with thousands
    of lines of code -of course: Contextually sensitive 'Comic Sans Flair Notan Edition'.
    It is the largest font in terms of sheer data footprint ever in part because it
    supports the full unicode range - but really because of the exponential possibilities
    introduced by context sensitivity. PC makers rejoice because the requires upgraded
    hardware to run. Third world countries continue to use the basic  Comic Sans Flair
    for decades. \r\n\r\nThe vision fades...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-12-31 20:14:32'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: By the end of 2007, over 50% of all fonts licensed will be in OpenType format.
  created: '2006-12-31 21:06:51'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Browsers starting to support raw font downloads and temporary installation
    for Web page rendering.</cite>\r\n\r\nAre you hinting that we're finally going
    to see Microsoft picking up embedded fonts again? I can just imagine the flame
    wars that will result from a browser that can handle embedded fonts but not CSS
    tables.\r\n\r\n<cite>Thinking about it, a Wii based font editor would be even
    cooler - imagine waving that controller thingy around and drawing shapes.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou're
    over-estimating the usability of the Wiimote. And an Wii Fontlab would mean the
    end of fonts as we know it, because the designers would all just sit around playing
    Twilight Princess and get nothing done.\r\n\r\n<cite>In spring of 2007 Woodtype
    will join the Script to make a triumphant return...</cite>\r\n\r\nTrader Joe's
    chic!\r\n\r\nI predict that not much of substance will happen in 2007, as designers
    across western civilization keep fiddling with trendy stuff in an attempt to avoid
    serious thoughts that could remind them that George Bush is still running the
    United States."
  created: '2006-12-31 21:15:35'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Eben, you made my day, that's hilarious. Be careful what you predict, tho,
    it may come back to haunt you.
  created: '2006-12-31 21:32:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I am just the channel...  ;-)\r\n\r\nGlad you liked it."
  created: '2006-12-31 22:09:17'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: 'Si, I agree with you wholeheartedly about #7 -- it''s gonna be a blast.  ;-)  We''ve
    already got a list of stuff to do in and around SeaTac.'
  children:
  - author:
      name: blank
    body: "<cite>We\u2019ve already got a list of stuff to do in and around SeaTac.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
      hope so. I'm already starting to plan a summer vacation in Seattle for this
      thing.\r\n\r\nI'm becoming such a design nerd it's scary...I just left a party
      that people would kill to get into so I could come home and read, and of course
      I had to stop here first."
    created: '2007-01-01 04:40:42'
  created: '2007-01-01 02:23:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Regarding Si's #8;\r\nI would add that \"JobsType\" would be followed by
    a competing type format springing out of a deal between type designers in northern
    Canada, Alaska, Siberia, and Finland which would be founded upon recently rediscovered
    coldtype libraries from the 60s. To avoid copyright infringement on both the the
    names \"Coldtype\" and \"JobsType\", the new competing format would be called
    \"SnowJobs\". The two type formats would do battle in type wars which would legally
    be called the \"Cold War\" because that name was never copyrighted.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS:
    Bill Clinton and Monica Lewinski thought about joining the battle but the name
    they chose for their font format was banned from public disclosure due to a gag
    rule. When asked about the nondisclosure, Monica was reported to say that she
    still gets all choked up thinking about it."
  created: '2007-01-01 04:28:11'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "more Euro Trash \r\nhttp://www.spreadshirt.net/shop.php?article_id=4110825&view_id=162\r\n\r\nand
    Euro chavs hoodies\r\nhttp://www.spreadshirt.net/shop.php?sid=200098"
  created: '2007-01-01 13:05:38'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">more Euro Trash\r\n\r\nSo Vinnie, how are sales going? When will you be
    sending us our first royalty check? ;-)\r\n\r\n> To avoid copyright infringement
    on both the the names \u201CColdtype\u201D and \u201CJobsType\u201D, the new competing
    format would be called \u201CSnowJobs\u201D.  \r\n\r\nThe thought sends a chill
    down my spine!\r\n\r\n>Are you hinting that we\u2019re finally going to see Microsoft
    picking up embedded fonts again?\r\n\r\nI didn't say that, and if I had that would
    have been cheating ;-) But it wouldn't surprise me if something happens in 2007
    given the 2006 movement by the W3C and Opera regarding this. "
  created: '2007-01-01 17:21:15'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "I think that humanist sans will have a sudden rush in popularity, and we'll
    have much harder time identifying them in the forum :)\r\n\r\nOoh, TypeCon Seattle.
    This one I must go!"
  created: '2007-01-01 19:58:39'
- author:
    name: Da Kine
    picture: 111014
  body: "I predict the triumphant return and dominance of the mimeograph machine!\r\nDB~"
  created: '2007-01-01 19:59:31'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Friend of mine still publishes his 'zine on a Gestetner.  ;-)
  children:
  - author:
      name: Si_Daniels
      picture: 110446
    body: ">Friend of mine still publishes his \u2018zine on a Gestetner. ;-)\r\n\r\nHooked
      on those solvent fumes? :-)\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-01-01 20:23:07'
  created: '2007-01-01 20:02:37'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: It could explain his fanaticism with the fifties....  ;-)
  created: '2007-01-01 20:49:40'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "DeKine - how I miss the aroma of the mimeograph machine, Mum in the kitchen
    turning away as political flyers were reproduced for a larger portion of the population.
    Even in Manhattan in the 1950s -- your mimeograph had to be registered!\r\n\r\nMeanwhile,
    I have two hopes for a new trend for 2007. Here goes - and please no laughing...\r\n\r\n1.
    The return of proper punctuation. Damn you - it's a quote mark, not a inch mark!\r\n2.
    Readability. Of all my years in typography professionally, we strove for legibility.
    Now, I feel the age of grunge is behind us, may we please get back to reading
    materials again. I thank the Dutch Type Foundry -- I found them recently, and
    believe they have some of the cleanest type designs I have seen since Berthold's
    Formata.\r\n\r\nReally, sometimes history is good - and okay to repeat itself.
    That's my hope, we go back to \"clean\" type. Not to inhibit design, mind you
    -- but...to be able to communicate to the general public. (Hey wait -- that's
    what good typography was always about....)"
  created: '2007-01-01 20:55:53'
- author:
    name: bokkah
    picture: 111697
  body: "Slab serifs will be even more popular in 2007. They won't die!!!\r\nWe have
    Paul Simon to thank.  You know... \r\n\r\nCaecilia, you\u2019re breaking my heart,\r\nYou\u2019re
    shaking my confidence daily.\r\nOh caecilia, I\u2019m down on my knees,\r\nI\u2019m
    begging you please to come home.\r\n\r\nWell, actually we have Peter Matthias
    Noordzij for that one!"
  created: '2007-01-02 01:06:04'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "Everything comes full circle: by year's end, CMYK is the new RGB.\r\n\r\nCashing
    in on the trend are Microsoft, Apple, Adobe, and Monotype - the powerhouse quartet
    will collaborate on a new suite of apps that will properly display paper onscreen
    and emit an authentic aroma of wood pulp and freshly baked ink.\r\n\r\nOh yeah
    - the beta will be unleashed at TypeCon2007 in Seattle."
  created: '2007-01-02 01:49:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Of all my years in typography professionally, we strove for legibility.
    Now, I feel the age of grunge is behind us, may we please get back to reading
    materials again.</cite>\r\n\r\nWe should be so lucky. I'll do my part, and continue
    on with my mordant critiques of fellow students who rely on this awful fad they
    don't even understand, no matter how many times my professor demands I do otherwise.
    Even if he continues to do so in writing."
  created: '2007-01-02 02:39:55'
- author:
    name: mjpatrick
    picture: 111908
  body: "I predict 2007 will be The Year that popular film poster/DVD cover logo artists
    stop (ab)using Trajan (and close variants) so much. \r\n\r\nTo the artists: Barnum
    & Bailey called; they want their safety net back. \r\n\r\nToo many of the logos
    look the same when I hit the stores. There needs to be more individuality between
    films again, use different typefaces that suit the film or better yet do something
    custom.\r\n\r\nDon't get the wrong idea here, I love Trajan, it's an inarguable
    classic, but there's just too much of it right now."
  created: '2007-01-02 03:07:01'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: In late 3Q or early 4Q '007 (The Year of Bond), Microsoft will buy a major
    font foundry. Getty will follow suit in late 2Q or early 3Q '08.
  created: '2007-01-02 14:06:29'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: If Getty does buy a huge foundry then perhaps this is also the year of rights
    managed font licensing ... heaven help us!
  created: '2007-01-02 18:05:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: I for one am surprised that neither Getty or Corbis has started acquiring
    libraries - they need only look at the huge profits Veer is raking in to see that
    it's a wise business move... may even make the streets of Calgary safer if it
    forces Grant to trade in his Lamborghini.
  created: '2007-01-02 18:45:17'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Good point, Simon. I just worry about rights managed font licensing. I really
    think it could cause problems in the industry. Well, cause more than it would
    solve anyway. '
  created: '2007-01-02 19:04:59'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: And Corbis is owned by who? C'mon, you know the answer...
  created: '2007-01-02 20:21:20'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: Given the particularly recent success of Veer, I suspect that the likes of
    Getty would want to wait for several more years. Waiting for the industry to mature
    a little bit, perhaps?
  created: '2007-01-02 21:00:05'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "\u201CI just worry about rights managed font licensing. I really think it
    could cause problems in the industry. Well, cause more than it would solve anyway.\u201D\r\n\r\nIt
    would cause problems, but nothing people wouldn't get used to. The publishing,
    PR, and advertising industries pay royalties to illustrators and photographers
    without much trouble\u2014aside from when the try to avoid paying altogether\u2014so
    I think that they would eventually get used to paying royalties for type. "
  created: '2007-01-02 21:19:13'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">And Corbis is owned by who? C\u2019mon, you know the answer\u2026\r\n\r\nI
    suppose recent events have shown that the owner is more interested in commissioning
    new fonts (the ClearType Collection) than acquiring legacy fonts. The lower level
    Corbis folks I know didn't seem that interested either. But who knows? \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-02 21:25:57'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "> <em>\"... they need only look at the huge profits Veer is</em>\r\n> <em>raking
    in to see that it\u2019s a wise business move\u2026\"</em>\r\n\r\nGosh, Si ...
    do you have some insider information that I don't know about? Veer\u2019s a private
    gig, you know. Heh.\r\n\r\n> <em>\"... may even make the streets of Calgary safer
    if it forces</em>\r\n> <em>Grant to trade in his Lamborghini ...\"</em>\r\n\r\nLamborghini?
    Not with the unpredictable weather and gravel-strewn streets we have around here.
    And there's no way you're getting your hands on my Volvo, baby.\r\n\r\n> <em>\"Given
    the particularly recent success of Veer, I suspect</em>\r\n> <em>that the likes
    of Getty would want to wait for several more</em>\r\n> <em>years. Waiting for
    the industry to mature a little bit, perhaps?\"</em>\r\n\r\nIn the \"been there,
    done that\" department ... Getty had their chance when they bought EyeWire back
    in 1999. They cut their losses after realizing that selling type requires a level
    of aesthetic and technical understanding that a group of JPEG pixel-flingers couldn't
    possibly wrap their densitometers around.\r\n\r\nNot that I'm bitter or anything.\r\n\r\nAs
    for MS buying a foundry ... for some reason that makes infinitely more sense."
  children:
  - author:
      name: blank
    body: "<cite>As for MS buying a foundry \u2026 for some reason that makes infinitely
      more sense.</cite>\r\n\r\nGiven Microsoft's track record outside of operating
      systems and productivity software, it makes a very little sense to me. \r\n\r\nAlthough
      I bet that Balmer would do it if Google started releasing F/OSS typefaces."
    created: '2007-01-04 06:57:49'
  created: '2007-01-04 04:45:12'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Nicely put, Mr. Grant. I guess I never looked at it that way. Thanks for
    englightening.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of MS and foundry, sii, is Vista going to include
    new typefaces besides Segoe UI and the usual (which might include the ClearType
    collection)?"
  created: '2007-01-04 06:39:27'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "For some reason, I think that there is more plausibility in MS buying a foundry
    than in Google releasing Open Source types.\r\n\r\nThis is waaay off topic :-)"
  created: '2007-01-04 08:05:26'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Like that ever stopped anyone from commenting? :-)\r\n\r\nDarn!  I was wondering
    who owns the Lambo that shows up at the Heartland frequently on weekends-- y'mean
    it's not yours Grant?  ;-)  Geez, it's only just up the block from us...."
  created: '2007-01-07 04:59:38'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "Alas, it's not mine.\r\n\r\nI'm more of a Unimog kind of guy, actually."
  created: '2007-01-09 05:23:45'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">This is waaay off topic :-)\r\n\r\nNot really, maybe it's a trend or prediction
    for 07? If so I'd wager a TypeCon pint that it doesn't happen. ;-)"
  created: '2007-01-09 05:30:29'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: We'll find out soon enough, sii ;-)
  created: '2007-01-11 02:25:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Unless there's a last minute announcement regarding Helvetica Flair it looks
    like the results are in. I give myself 2.5 out of 9 - but how about Bruce - he
    wasn't right but he was pretty darn close.
  created: '2007-12-31 19:40:34'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: There's a few hours to go yet. Hold on tight!
  created: '2007-12-31 20:59:02'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "I'm not speaking for Google (I work on spam, not  Android), but it's my understanding
    that the  Android fonts will be released under an open source license, possibly
    the Apache 2 license of the rest of the Android platform.\r\n\r\nNot sure what
    that does to point #5 above, but as far as my Spiro stuff is  concerned, it's
    sadly almost certainly true. Between family and other personal commitments, I
    have approximately zero time left over for fonts, and I don't see that changing
    any time soon. Ah well.  Happy New Year everyone!"
  created: '2008-01-01 01:57:46'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<em> We want stuff, you know to look more like this</em>  (throws type designer
    <a href=\"http://blogs.guardian.co.uk/arts/\">the Guardian</a>). I won't mind.
    And hey presto, doesn't Meta Serif look ready to fit the bill. I know I will force
    feed at least one client with it this year. \r\nHappy new to all of you.\r\n\r\nf\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-01 03:04:38'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: I'm bumping this to the surface again. Quite a few of Sii's original prophecies
    have been fullfilled by now. Web type and Comic Sans "Flair" might be the most
    obvious ones.
  created: '2010-07-21 03:58:25'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> <em>By the end of 2007, over 50% of all fonts licensed will be in OpenType
    format.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm sorry to say that the adoption rate was a little slower
    that I hoped. According to <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/20years/\">FontShop's
    figures</a>, OpenType didn't hit 50% until late in 2009. But I can tell you that
    the curve continues its sharp upward trend. OT is well above 50% in 2010. Maybe
    75% by the end of the year.\r\n\r\nThat number is helped by the font manufacturers.
    Since <a href=\"http://typographica.org/2009/features/our-favorite-typefaces-of-2008/\">2008</a>,
    nearly <em>all</em> new fonts were released in OpenType."
  created: '2010-07-21 21:56:00'
- author:
    name: m.chelle
  body: 9. is slowly becoming more and more possible/awesome! A student at Carnegie
    Mellon programmed the kinect to follow hand traces and create your own font based
    on drawing each letter for 10 seconds in the air. It was quite beautiful.
  created: '2011-06-16 22:00:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Ahh, my alma mater ;-)
  created: '2011-06-17 04:19:54'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Is there a link to see this? Thanks!!
  created: '2011-06-23 23:09:22'
date: '2006-12-31 17:15:03'
node_type: forum
title: Typography trends and predictions for 2007

---
