---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: "7pm BBC2 tonight... http://www.averyenglishvillage.com/ \r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Who gave that scary kid an axe?\r\n\r\n<em>The Eric Gill story I am sure
    will raise a few hackles. When I embarked on the series I said that I wanted to
    use my camera to surprise myself and my neighbours. I think I was using my camera
    as an archaeologist might use a trowel - digging for memory, looking for hidden
    truths in the village. The Eric Gill film is a very personal journey. I make no
    claims to be an art historian or to have anything particularly original to say
    about Eric Gill, but for me it was a fascinating personal journey. In a sense
    I was thinking about my dad and his art history. The extraordinary thing is that
    Gill was in this village because of his relationship with Edward Johnston, the
    great calligrapher and font designer, and Johnston was my father's tutor at the
    Royal College of Art in the 1920s. So it's not just a film about art; it's a film
    about community and personal history.</em> Luke Holland (director)\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-02 18:08:43'
- author:
    name: ak
  body: "a reminder of how scary small-town england is.\r\n\r\nentracte.co.uk"
  created: '2007-01-02 20:39:39'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Somebody stick it on youtube!
  created: '2007-01-03 00:34:42'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<em>Somebody stick it on youtube!</em>\r\n\r\nDoesn't that equate to offering
    pirated fonts?\r\n\r\nEspecially since it is available for purchase.\r\n\r\nThe
    BBC is going to offer some programmes for free download, whether this will be
    covered I don't know because it is made by a separate production company, and
    the offer might be restricted to the UK.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-03 08:35:56'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Doesn\u2019t that equate to offering pirated fonts?\"\r\n\r\nOnly if you
    are selling it for profit. \r\n\r\nOtherwise, it's merely copyright infringement. "
  created: '2007-01-03 14:40:38'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<em>Only if you are selling it for profit.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't see that selling
    it or not makes any difference, taking a copy of somebody's work and making it
    available to the public, thereby denying the author their due payment, is piracy,
    whether that work is a font, a piece of music or a film.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-03 15:20:47'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: "Getting back to the actual programme\u2026\r\n\r\n\u2026I found it wonderfully
    sympathetic and insightful. I was slightly disturbed by the familial acceptance
    of his promiscuity, something the whole town, it seems, turned a blind eye to.
    His <em>flashing</em> exploits I found humorous. I can\u2019t remember the exact
    quote from one of his elderly neighbours \u2013 something about his balls being
    bigger than his brains?"
  created: '2007-01-03 17:06:08'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: "Can\u2019t say I\u2019m too intrigued by the rest of the series\u2026\r\n\r\n\u2013
    Saving the village pub\r\n\u2013 Backstage at a Ditchling musical\r\n\u2013 Four
    post-octogenarian ladies\r\n\u2013 A farming and hunting moan"
  created: '2007-01-03 17:11:23'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: I think that Gill and his twisted sister (and animals) would have had much
    in common with Edward and Tubbs, the inbred shopkeepers of <a href=http://www.bbc.co.uk/mediaselector/check/comedy/broadband/video/leagueofgentlemen_s2ep2?size=16x9&bgc=CC0000&nbwm=1&bbwm=1&nbram=1&bbram=1&checkedBandwidth=bb&checkedMedia=ram&subtitles=hide&alreadySeen=1><strong>Royston
    Vassey.</a></strong>
  created: '2007-01-03 18:02:47'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: "Ditchling, Capel-Y-Ffin and <em>Royston Vassey</em>\u2026"
  created: '2007-01-03 18:10:08'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: lol. He was a great artist and craftsman, but he was also one very sick puppy.
    Or should I say he made his puppy very sick!
  created: '2007-01-03 18:17:30'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">\u2013 Four post-octogenarian ladies\r\n\r\nI thought the old dears in the
    film who remembered the community were actually far more honest than many of the
    others who tried to divorce the sensuality of Gill from his art. \r\n<em>local
    carving for local people</em>\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-03 18:42:06'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: "tim,\r\n\r\nAbsolutely, but did you notice that some of the old dears drank
    some form of Pernod for almost any occasion/reason. I think that this helped loosen
    their tongues! Plus, in my experience I find that those English ladies of a certain
    era and social class always seem to tell it like it is."
  created: '2007-01-03 18:55:24'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I don\u2019t see that selling it or not makes any difference, taking a
    copy of somebody\u2019s work and making it available to the public, thereby denying
    the author their due payment, is piracy\"\r\n\r\nThis is the definition the RIAA
    has been using, but is not the traditional term.\r\n\r\nPiracy refers to making
    fake product...be it physical or an illegal copy  of an electronic medium and
    then selling it for profit. An illegal business.\r\n\r\nCopying something without
    the end-user's permission is copyright infringement.\r\n\r\nI'm not 'for' either
    one, of course. I just think it's important we note the difference between the
    terms.\r\n\r\nBack to Gill:\r\n\r\n\"As if dog fondling, sister shagging paedophiles
    could ever live anywhere else!\"\r\n\r\nCan anyone expound on that? Is there more
    to Gill's history than what (little) I know of? ;o)"
  created: '2007-01-03 18:59:58'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: "Some of his non-artistic diary extracts:\r\nhttp://www.traditioninaction.org/HotTopics/j006htGill_Morality2_Odou.htm"
  created: '2007-01-03 19:04:11'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://www.amazon.co.uk/Eric-Gill-Fiona-MacCarthy/dp/0571143024/sr=8-2/qid=1167844417/ref=pd_ka_2/203-0117419-5011112?ie=UTF8&s=books\r\n\r\nI
    recommend this biography of Gill to read about his private life (and his work),
    whether parts of it would be classed as paedophilia or just(!) incest is debatable.\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the definition of piracy. \r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-03 19:15:18'
- author:
    name: bokkah
    picture: 111697
  body: 'The sad part is that the "little tinman" is actually a girl and "Ann of green
    gables" is a boy. '
  created: '2007-01-04 01:15:09'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">The sad part is \r\n\r\nWhy is that sad? The age-old English tradition of
    cross-dressing (AKA Panto) is one on the country's most noble exploits.\r\n\r\nDid
    the series run on Canadian TV?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-04 01:40:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I haven't seen the program yet.\r\nI kinda knew he was a free-love drop-out
    commie hippy artist.\r\nDid it say anything about drugs?"
  created: '2007-01-04 05:19:47'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: "OK, Eric Gill was a bit daffy in many ways, but he was a wonderful artist,
    a gifted type designer as well as a sculptor. Yes, the Fiona MacCarthy bio is
    a must read. The history of art is littered with artists who were not the purest
    of the pure, like Caravaggio for example, who is reputed to have murdered someone.
    (I didn't Google this, just have a vague memory from old art history classes)
    Are artists or designers supposed to be saints? I mean I smoked dope and never
    inhaled either. Just kidding.\r\nJordan"
  created: '2007-01-05 02:40:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">a free-love drop-out commie hippy artist.\r\n\r\n>bit daffy in many ways
    ...not the purest of the pure\r\n\r\nFrom what I read in the links above, MacCarthy
    documents that Gill committed heinous crimes against his own children."
  created: '2007-01-05 03:08:57'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "So, as they say, what do you plan to do about it? A silent protest, maybe
    refusing to use Gill Sans, or any humanist sans that was influenced by it? Maybe
    a boycott of Saab and the BBC? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-05 05:22:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">what do you plan to do about it? \r\n\r\nI just did it. "
  created: '2007-01-05 05:32:01'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: fair enough
  created: '2007-01-05 05:38:15'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: "\"Are artists or designers supposed to be saints?\"\r\n\r\nNo, but neither
    does their occupation exempt them from behaving in ways that most sane people
    would doubtless agree are socially unacceptable and abhorrent. Child abuse is
    illegal for good reason, not simply because people are prudish or that they are
    moral pontificators. Gill, after all, was a man who claimed to be a devout catholic,
    working on carvings of the twelve Stations of the Cross at Westminster Cathedral,
    only to then come home to groom his children so that he could sodomise them. Caravaggio
    might well have murdered, we don't know. Gill, however, explicitly documents his
    abuse in writing, and some of his unhealthier passions fed his work.\r\n\r\nI
    don't know whether Gill was a hypocrite, mentally unwell or both, but for me personally,
    the edge is taken off from enjoying many of his (non lettering) works, knowing
    that much of his inspiration was generated by incestuous yearning and paedophilia.
    To me, the physical qualities of his work remain undiminished but when I was made
    aware that both his artistic and sinister personal life were deeply entwined,
    I found it quite difficult to view and engage with them in quite the same way
    that I did, prior to my knowledge of his abusive tendencies. \r\n"
  created: '2007-01-05 10:50:56'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Does anyone know if PBS is planning on buying the rights from the BBC to
    show it in America?\r\n\r\nOr do we, boohoo, miss out?"
  created: '2007-01-05 13:04:03'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Does anyone know if PBS is planning on buying the rights from the BBC to
    show it in America?\r\n\r\nHow much have you donated to your PBS station in the
    past year. If it is more than a few dollars, they should be anxious to hear your
    opinions on programming, and might respond well to a request for the program.\r\n\r\nAnd
    if you haven't donated: they will still probably listen to you, but you might
    feel a little less comfortable about asking them to spend the money that others
    have given."
  created: '2007-01-05 15:17:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's problematic to pass moral judgement on those of another era, when values
    and laws were different than today.  \r\n\r\nHypocrisy is however a charge that
    can be levelled at those of earlier times (if being true to one's values is considered
    a virtue). In that case, Eric Gill was no hyopcrite; he genuinely believed that
    society was wrong to the core, across the board, and was radical in politics,
    morality, dress, religion, and of course typography. "
  created: '2007-01-05 19:14:40'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: "\"It\u2019s problematic to pass moral judgement on those of another era,
    when values and laws were different than today.\"\r\n\r\nChild abuse was as equally
    wrong 70 years or more ago as it is today. I am sure most people in Gill's era
    would have found his acts repulsive, regardless of moral stance."
  created: '2007-01-05 19:20:03'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I'm not trying to start a debate. This conversation is good, but maybe we
    should all consider that each of us is welcome to have our own opinions. \r\n\r\nMy
    opinion: This might seem like a radical idea, but I believe in the idea of forgiveness
    and repentance, even with opportunity to do so after death. Therefore I have no
    idea if Eric Gill decided what he did was not such a good idea. None of us really
    do. Even his journal has proved to be full of stretched truth and poor memory
    for fact. I admire his work as an artist and typographer. I choose to ignore the
    rest and hope all has been made right. It isn't my place to judge him."
  created: '2007-01-05 19:43:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "At the New York TypeCon 2 years ago, there was a speaker who made a presentation
    on Gill's diaries and writings. Until that presentation, I knew nothing about
    Gill's travesties. That was the only presentation that I walked out on. I just
    couldn't stomach a man who would inflict his depravities on his own children.
    This was not religious or social radicalism, it was his way of justifying his
    raping of his own children. Whether he lived in the caveman days, the Dark Ages,
    or modern times Gill was a despicable piece of rat infested scum regardless of
    whatever artistic skills he may have posessed.\r\nOJ was a great running back
    and Caligula was a skilled fidler.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-05 19:47:34'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Hmm. Maybe my rose color glasses are on a little too tight. :^/ \r\n\r\nI
    should add, before someone jumps down my throat, that I DO NOT CONDONE THE THINGS
    WHICH PEOPLE HAVE SAID GILL DID. Not at all. "
  created: '2007-01-05 19:51:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">being true to one\u2019s values is considered a virtue\r\n\r\nSartre was
    willing to put authenticity above other virtues, but he was a rotten fellow (though
    not as bad as Gill). His 'ethics' are poisonous. If a person's values are rotten,
    then his sincere belief in them seems to me to be little compensation. Any day
    I'll take a person who speaks hypocritically about liking everyone, and is actually
    kind, over someone who is sincere, vicious and cruel.\r\n\r\n>It\u2019s problematic
    to pass moral judgement on those of another era, when values and laws were different
    than today.\r\n\r\nChild abuse was recognized as illegal and immoral then, as
    it is now, so what's problematic? And being an authentic rebel does not, in my
    book, give you a free pass to selfish and cruel--as well as immoral and illegal.\r\n\r\nAdded:
    Just read Tiffany's post. The thing is, Gill is beyond forgiveness or non-forgiveness,
    except by the Big Guy Upstairs. All we can do is, as Tiffany said, is to not condone
    in any way rotten behavior that severely hurts people."
  created: '2007-01-05 20:00:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Tiff,\r\nNone of what I said was aimed at you or anyone else in this forum.
    You are entitled to your opinion without any worry. My reaction is purely to Gill.
    My children are the joy of my life. I just can't bear the thought of a parent
    abusing his children.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-05 20:00:21'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "AFAIK there was no age of consent (in law) in the early twentieth century
    in Britain, but in the mid-19th it was not unacceptable to have sex with a child
    of 10 to 13, however repugnant we might find that now. Gill's family accepted
    his incest, although being unwilling to discuss it in public, his elder daughters
    did not condemn him either. Social mores change.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-05 20:01:08'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: At least Gill left us with fabulous type. I'm not sure what L. Ron Hubbard
    has left us other than a bad movie and a really wacky group of hollywood actors.
    Jesus did leave us that book, but that has seemed to cause as many problems as
    it has solutions. Of course Hitler left us the VW. So, whether a person is a wacky
    prophet doesn't seem to directly influence whether they leave a useful legacy
    or not...
  created: '2007-01-05 21:24:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Tim, age of consent for a non-incestuous relationship and incest of a parent
    with a child are two very different things. Parent and child incest is prohibited
    in Leviticus (18:7), so it is extremely ancient. I find it hard to believe that
    in 20th century Britain it was not against the law. \r\n\r\nI would like to know
    what his daughters thought of his behavior as adults, and what is their history.
    Lack of public condemnation is not indicative of anything, given the taboo on
    discussing such matters. On the basis of the literature in psychology, I doubt
    that the subsequent family history is a happy story. \r\n\r\nBy the way, on the
    subject of hypocrisy:  Gill as well as being such a rebel also claimed to be a
    devout Catholic. I don't know that much about Catholicism, but to me proclaiming
    you are a Catholic and practicing incest looks like the height of hyprocrisy. "
  created: '2007-01-05 21:28:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Child abuse was recognized as illegal and immoral then, as it is now,
    so what\u2019s problematic?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not condoning adult-child sex, merely
    pointing out that sexual mores and laws vary with time and place. Buggery was
    legalized in the UK in 1967. The legality of incest (familial proximity, age)
    varies with country and religion. "
  created: '2007-01-05 21:32:51'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: "Well said, Chris.\r\n\r\n\"Buggery was legalized in the UK in 1967.\"\r\n\r\nYes,
    for adults, Nick. Young children who are conditioned to think it is right by people
    like Gill have no choice, that's why laws are put in place to help defend them
    against predatory adults.\r\n\r\n\"The legality of incest (familial proximity,
    age) varies with country and religion.\"\r\n\r\nAsk any child of any culture,
    race, era, etc., if they would genuinely like to be buggered by thier dad and
    I think you'd find the answer would be a resounding NO.\r\n\r\n\"Gill\u2019s family
    accepted his incest, although being unwilling to discuss it in public, his elder
    daughters did not condemn him either.\"\r\n\r\nOnce again, paedophiles are notorious
    for conditioning their victims to accept thier abuse as the norm. This is usually
    done by using threats that something bad will happen to them if they tell anyone
    or if they fail to comply with their abuser's demands. "
  created: '2007-01-05 22:55:05'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "Fucking hell. I am never going to use any of Gills fonts again. \"Artistic
    merit\" be damned what he did is unforgiveable. Imagin trying to use joanna knowing
    who it is named after and what he did. I just can't divorce a person from thier
    work no matter what. \r\n\r\nMuzz"
  created: '2007-01-06 02:31:58'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">two very different things\r\nAnd two separate sentences.\r\n\r\nLike Nick
    has said in his posts, I am not trying to defend his practices, more trying to
    point out that history should take into account the social mores of the time (and
    many other contributory factors).\r\n\r\nA couple of articles written by Fiona
    MacCarthy\r\nhttp://books.guardian.co.uk/departments/biography/story/0,,1267659,00.html\r\n\r\nhttp://books.guardian.co.uk/review/story/0,,1825863,00.html\r\n\r\nAnd,
    I believe, the slides that Chris was referring to\r\nhttp://www.nd.edu/~jsherman/gill/shermanPresentation.html\r\n\r\nAnd,
    apparently Gill\u2019s great grandaughter runs this business\r\nhttp://www.grangetrekking.co.uk/\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-06 11:17:54'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: "\"history should take into account the social mores of the time\"\r\n\r\nWas
    there a climate of general acceptance towards incest and paedophilia in 1920-30's
    Britain that I am unaware of? This is not ancient history, and most cultures of
    all eras have realised that incest is genetically counter productive. I suspect
    that Gill's incestuous activities were not driven by cultural or religious fervour/beliefs;
    simply a selfish lust.\r\n\r\nLike Chris said, \"Whether he lived in the caveman
    days, the Dark Ages, or modern times Gill was a despicable piece of rat infested
    scum\u2026\". Albeit a talented one.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-06 13:28:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Was there a climate of general acceptance towards incest and paedophilia
    in 1920-30\u2019s Britain that I am unaware of?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, of course. There
    was more acceptance of paedophilia, the obvious example being the Catholic Church's
    choirboy problem, which has been going on for many centuries, and only recently
    been brought out into the open in a few places, and prosecutions and dismissals
    made.\r\n\r\nAlso, sex in boys' private schools was accepted as a fact of life.
    Younger pupils were made \"fags\" or servants of older pupils. Sex was not formally
    part of the arrangement, but the more common meaning of that word is not a coincidence.\r\n\r\nPeople
    were more reticent about their private lives then, and there were no sex researchers,
    so really, we have no idea how much incest was going on.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-06 19:25:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">There was more acceptance of paedophilia, the obvious example being the
    Catholic Church\u2019s choirboy problem\r\n\r\n'Acceptance' is highly misleading,
    as there was certainly no public acceptance of child abuse by priests, but rather
    public condemnation of such activities in the strongest terms.\r\n\r\nTo repeat,
    parent-child incest should not be muddled with other sexual issues. There was
    never acceptance of parent-child incest, so far as I know, in any culture, anywhere.
    Of course it has gone on, but that is not the same thing as moral acceptance.
    And as far as I know, according current psychological research, parent-child incest
    is one of the most psychologically damaging and burdensome things one can do to
    a child. \r\n\r\nSoft pedaling Gill's heinous crimes does no one any favors."
  created: '2007-01-06 20:11:01'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: I agree with William that 'acceptance' is is misleading. The fact that there
    has been abuse within the Catholic Church, public schools and other closeted places,
    does in no way suggest that the wider society either wanted it or that they would
    tolerate it. Indeed, it was probably the emerging awareness of these goings on
    which led to schools, etc. to intentionally making it harder for these people
    to be with children.
  created: '2007-01-06 20:36:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Of course it has gone on, but that is not the same thing as moral acceptance.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    haven't seen the doc, but Conor's comment speaks to this:\r\n\r\n\"I was slightly
    disturbed by the familial acceptance of his promiscuity, something the whole town,
    it seems, turned a blind eye to.\"\r\n\r\nIf that's not moral acceptance, what
    is? "
  created: '2007-01-06 23:01:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I don't there is any claim, or evidence, at least in the little I read, that
    the town knew he was having sex with his daughters. \r\n\r\nAnd I greatly doubt
    that they did know, since secrecy regularly accompanies incest, from what I have
    read and seen of victim testimony. He would have well known both the illegality
    and the official Catholic disapproval of incest, and hence his risk of public
    humiliation and jail. So the chances of he or his children being open about it
    are very remote.\r\n\r\nPromiscuity is one thing, and parent-child incest quite
    another, and much graver, matter. "
  created: '2007-01-07 00:34:53'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: 100 years from now, or 200, when we have left behind our work or lack of same,
    who will possibly care whether or not a very beautiful type, Joanna, was designed
    by a pedophile? Long before I read the MacCarthy book and knew only the sanitized
    biography of Eric Gill I thought that Joanna in metal was a lovely type, especially
    in the italic. Do we all read the biographies of type designers before we use
    their types? God forbid what we might find out if we did. Can we, should we, separate
    the art a person creates from the private life of that person? I condemn the acts
    Gill committed as much as anyone but I cannot and will not condemn the work he
    made.
  created: '2007-01-07 03:58:16'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Jody,\r\n\r\nI would not hang these; http://www.hitler.org/art/buildings/building5.jpg
    http://www.hitler.org/art/landscapes/landscape6.jpg http://www.hitler.org/art/doodles/doodle6.jpg
    on my wall even if I liked them, would you? I knew a serial sex slayer who is
    an outstanding Maritime Historian, a subject of interest to me. Don't hang with
    that fellow, or read his books, would you? Yes, he is on the streets. \r\n\r\nI
    have written off Gill as a result of his \"perverse habits\". I would not buy
    his type any quicker than Hitler's artwork. Sex with children is despicable. Also,
    \"animals\" can not give consent.\r\n\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2007-01-07 06:18:03'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Myself, ignoring the fact that I know a bit about Gill and some of the rest
    of you, I'd say judge it on the work. My God, what does one's personal life have
    to do with how their work is perceived? especially when, in Gill's and others
    cases, we only come to understand this in retrospect. \r\n\r\nWhat exactly do
    social morals have to do with the practice of typography? How about other ethical
    behavior?\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2007-01-07 06:50:10'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: "\u201CI haven\u2019t seen the doc, but Conor\u2019s comment speaks to this:\r\n\r\n\u2018I
    was slightly disturbed by the familial acceptance of his promiscuity, something
    the whole town, it seems, turned a blind eye to.\u2019\r\n\r\nIf that\u2019s not
    moral acceptance, what is?\u201D\r\n\r\nYou\u2019ve not seen the documentary,
    but you are prepared to form your opinions on it based upon the second hand viewing
    information of one viewer! Regardless of what either Conor, I or anyone else says,
    you\u2019d have to see it for yourself. The fact remains that he was an abuser,
    a point, it would seem that you want to sweep under the carpet and forget because
    it is a history of abuse which some members of past society have ignored, as indeed
    some will continue to do today. Yes, life moves on, but it does no harm to remember
    past and present victims of crimes which were never justifiable.\r\n\r\nFrom what
    I saw, I believe that villagers at the time did not know about his abusing; he
    was seen simply as an artistic wierdo but that was about it. What, do you think
    Gill advertised the fact that he was abusing his kids, perhaps popping into the
    pub or the post office to let the locals know that he was the local kiddy fiddler?
    \r\n\r\n\u201CWhat exactly do social morals have to do with the practice of typography?\u201D\r\n\r\nThat
    is dependent upon one\u2019s purchasing ethics and consumer awareness (if the
    work is for sale). Some of Gill's (non-lettering) artwork was inspired by his
    incestuous leanings. Like I said in a earlier post, I don\u2019t doubt his technical
    ability (particularly as a lettercutter, designer, etc.) but I don\u2019t have
    to like the man.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t think that it hurts to know a bit about the
    background of any artistic creation and/or the product's creator when making purchasing
    decisions. I don\u2019t want to digress too much, but people who by into a product,
    say Siemens for example, might not know (or may choose to ignore) that they manufactured
    the ovens to burn the bodies of Nazi concentration camp victims. (Perhaps you
    think we should ignore that event too, Nick, seeing that that too is history with
    a past cultural context). Yet still as <strong> <a href=http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/2233890.stm>
    recently as 2002</a> </strong> this company continued to show no respect for the
    murdered. It is a question of ethical awareness and consumer choice. If consumers
    know about a product or manufacturer\u2019s history they might think twice about
    buying that product. We should not berate people for not buying into certain prouducts,
    including art (type), if their conscience dictates.\r\n\r\n\"How about other ethical
    behavior?\"\r\nIn relation to what exactly? "
  created: '2007-01-07 11:04:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Gerald: what do we do with the Western tradition of typography, in which
    the Bembo typeface plays so strong a role -- knowing that its creator was a murderer?\r\n\r\nFrom
    the other direction, I know that there are several potentially excellent type
    designers who have not published their work, because they are uncomfortable with
    the idea that it may be used to set text they would find objectionable.\r\n\r\n<em>Perhaps
    you think we should ignore that event too, Nick, seeing that that too is history
    with a past cultural context</em>\r\n\r\nT Bones, if you want to continue this
    discussion, I suggest you come out from behind your anonymous avatar (what guilty
    secrets do you have to hide?) and stop using the sleazy \"if you disagree with
    me you must be a Nazi sympathiser\" debating technique. And you might want to
    consider changing your avatar picture from one by Herg\xE9, who some would consider
    a Nazi collaborator, before you play your Nazi card :-)"
  created: '2007-01-07 19:16:02'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: "\"And you might want to consider changing your avatar picture from one by
    Herg\xE9, who some would consider a Nazi collaborator, before you play your Nazi
    card :-)\"\r\n\r\nTo a picture of you in your snappy Hugo Boss schutzstaffel uniform
    instead perhaps? :-)    \r\n\r\n\"I suggest you come out from behind your anonymous
    avatar\"\r\nT. Bones is my real name, strange as it may be to you. What's the
    problem with using my initial, eh? Why do you need to know exactly who I am, Nick?
    \ My private life is none of your  business and neither am I answerable to you.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    you have a problem with the concept of freedom of speech too. Or has this thread
    got way too close to exposing your guilty secrets? It certainly says a great deal
    about you.\r\n\r\nThere's no need to get personal, Nick. I never said that you
    are a Nazi sympathiser, paedophile sympatiser, or whatever. (You might be, who
    knows). Anyway, to get firmly back on topic. I was making the point that you suggest
    that things were different in Gill's era and were therefore acceptable to the
    wider society. I used the Siemens case to illustrate the point that you made about
    actions being viewed differently in past society as well as a point regardng the
    issue of informed consumer choice. I chose to disagree with your views and counter
    what I felt was a flawed and narrow minded argument. No need to throw your toys
    out of the pram because you don't like my thoughts. If you want me to back off,
    agree to differ and leave the argument at this point, just say, but don't accuse
    me of being sleazy as a cheap insult.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-07 22:01:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "We are wrestling here with a problem of how to deal with the works of a great
    artist who did reprehensible things as a person. \r\n\r\nI think one part of the
    problem is relatively simple. In my view, we should clearly and uniquivocally
    reject what was morally reprehensible that the person did, and not soft pedal
    it because he (or she) was a great artist.\r\n\r\nFrom what I hear there are perpetrators
    of incest on the internet who try to reassure one another that it is ok. So I
    think we have a responsiblity to sustain a climate of moral disapproval of this
    extremely damaging behavior, and not give any excuse to the villains who perpetrate
    this stuff. They may find this thread by googling. I know it is not fashionable
    to moralize, but I don't agree with the fashion: it is important to moralize to
    help sustain a decent society. And this is a case where the need is, in my opinion,
    very clear and unequivocal. \r\n\r\nThe question of how to deal with the works
    of a person whose actions we find reprehensible is more complicated. \r\n\r\nAlthough
    his concern is understandable, I don't agree with Gerald Giampa that we should
    simply dismiss them. Historically, it seems that we don't know whether the 'fabulous
    hands of Francesco da Bologna' [Griffo], as Aldus put it, were in the end instruments
    of murder. Evidently Griffo was accused of murder for killing a relative in a
    fight. We don't in fact know whether he was, for example, let off on account of
    self-defence, or was hung. \r\n\r\nBut let us assume that he was guilty of murder.
    Should we then not learn from this 'founding father' of roman type design? Not
    use his type designs? I don't see why. His designing type was an innocent activity,
    and not malicious. So why not accept the good that the man did, and lament the
    bad, if indeed it was there. \r\n\r\nSimilarly in the case of Gill, his type designs
    are fine, honest work. And so I don't have a problem with people using them and
    learning from them. I also don't have a problem if their association with Gill
    is too much, but that is a personal thing. I don't think there is a moral case
    to be made against the type itself--as it might be with pirated type, for example--particularly
    long after his death. \r\n\r\nNow it is not simple because some artistic work
    is tainted by the corruption in the artist or designer. As I think some have mentioned,
    this is indeed the case with some of Gill's drawings and sculpture. Actually before
    I knew about this stuff there was something I found weird and off-putting about
    his work, even the relatively innocent stuff on the BBC building at Porter Square,
    if I remember correctly.  And his stuff of Catholic Saints having sex is just
    too bizarre for words. \r\n\r\nWhat of Gill's work is over the line is I suppose
    for each person to decide. To me the type is pretty much the good side of Gill's
    work, and the Saints the bad. We can accept the one and not the other."
  created: '2007-01-07 22:51:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Well said Bill.\r\n\r\n<em>T. Bones is my real name, strange as it may be
    to you</em>\r\n\r\nI made the assumption based on the fact that you list \"T Bones\",
    with no period after the T, on your further information page as \"Full name\".
    \r\n\r\n<em>Why do you need to know exactly who I am</em>\r\n\r\nI don't. You
    are the one advancing the argument that the backround of designers has a bearing
    on whether one should use their products. So a lack of transparency seemed hypocritical
    to me, assuming that you were posting under an alias. \r\n\r\n<em>The fact remains
    that he was an abuser, a point, it would seem that you want to sweep under the
    carpet and forget because it is a history of abuse which some members of past
    society have ignored, as indeed some will continue to do today.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    not my point, actually, it's yours. I'm more interested in the relativity of sexual
    ethics and laws in different times and places than being outraged about Gill's
    sexual relations with his children. If this dispassionate attitude seems callous
    or \"soft-pedalling\" to anyone, I apologize, but it is a sincere reaction to
    the way in which Gill is so often mentioned on Typophile and out come the prurient
    comments sniggering or thundering about his sex life. \r\n\r\n<em>I never said
    that you are a Nazi sympathiser, paedophile sympatiser, or whatever. (You might
    be, who knows).</em>\r\n\r\nAnd so might you, who knows."
  created: '2007-01-08 00:25:29'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: I too agree with Nick, your comments Bill are well put. The work or the art
    will stand on its own merits as you suggest. The benign work of type design can
    hardly be criticized on the basis of the lack of morals of its creator, or for
    that matter, on the moral goodness of that person. The work is the work. If Jesus
    had designed a crummy type font would we like it because of who He is?
  created: '2007-01-08 00:56:34'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Jordy,\r\n\r\n\"If Jesus had designed a crummy type font would we like it
    because of who He is?\"\r\n\r\nIf Hitler painted beautiful pictures would we dislike
    them because of who he was? Some would. How did Michael Jackson become \"Wacko
    Jacko\"? Some consider child molesters dismissible in spite of their past work.\r\n\r\nTo
    quote my good friend Chris, \"OJ was a great running back and Caligula was a skilled
    fidler.\" \r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2007-01-08 04:25:21'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">Caligula was a skilled fiddler\r\n\r\nThat kind of illustrates the point
    I was making about proper research, because\r\ni) It was Nero who \u201Cfiddled
    while Rome burned\u201D, (and, of course, the fiddle wasn't invented for another
    thousand years, so it was probably a lyre).\r\nand\r\nii) It wasn't certainly
    true, Suetonius is the source for this and it has passed into folklore, however,
    Tacitus says that Nero returned to Rome as soon as he heard of the fire and started
    the relief effort from his own pocket, including feeding and sheltering the dispossessed
    in his palaces.\r\n\r\nTwo sources, each probably written with an agenda to favour
    a patron, although both sources agree that both Caligula and Nero were very unpleasant
    human beings.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-08 08:38:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am not equating Gill's morals with his typefaces nor am I condemning his
    typographic work because of his perversions. To me, it is a matter of personal
    choice if you use his type. If an individual can use Gill's type without feeling
    conflicted or in some way negative, that is fine.  I certainly will make no judgement
    about that individual. It is their choice, not mine to make.  If another individual
    cannot divorce Gill's type from Gill and would be consumed by a moral dilemma,
    I would have no issue with that person avoiding the use of Gill's type either.
    It is their choice not mine.\r\nAs for me, I fall more into the second group.
    I had not been using any of Gill's type for several years prior to finding out
    about his character anyway so I made no conscious choice to avoid his type. I
    chose other type for the usual typographic reasons based on the needs of the job.
    \ If I were forced to make a choice today, I don\u2019t think I could now choose
    Gill\u2019s type without it causing me sadness. If a client came to me who uses
    Gill Sans as a corporate face, I would most likely feel OK about using it because
    it was their stipulation for their own work. This has never happened so I don\u2019t
    know for sure if I would be able to do it or feel I must decline the job. There
    have been times when clients have insisted on using certain typefaces which I
    felt were wrong for the job (again for typographic reasons). I pleaded my case
    to the client and sometimes could not sway them. Most often, I ended up doing
    the job using their type but there was a case where someone wanted to use all
    caps script.  I declined the job politely. This again was not a moral issue but
    the thought of being associated with a really bad job just does not sit well with
    me.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: Sorry about my error with Caligula/Nero.\r\nand hello
    to my friend Gerald."
  created: '2007-01-08 14:46:40'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I would not hang these...on my wall even if I liked them, would you?\"\r\n\r\nWould
    you drive a VW?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: FlorianCH
    body: "\r\nJust a thought: If one would eliminate all literature, art and music,
      whose creators have led a dubious or shady livestyle \u2013\_what would remain?
      \u2013 I still love Polanski\u2019s films and I\u2019ll also use Gill Sans and
      Joanna if needed. Art doesn\u2019t go together with political correctness \u2013\_a
      fact hard to chew for some people.\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-01-11 13:14:21'
  created: '2007-01-08 14:49:19'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Aluminum,\r\n\r\nNo, nor a Ford.\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2007-01-10 05:52:26'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "FlorianCH \r\n\r\n\"Art doesn\u2019t go together with political correctness\"\r\n\r\nGill's
    work certainly \"did not\" go together with \"political correctness\". That said,
    I don't think anyone, unless someone is mislead by your conclusion, is suggesting
    buggering, maybe I should say sodomizing one's own daughters is acceptable behavior.
    But are you saying that art is not art unless it is politically incorrect, that
    sodomizing ones daughters is acceptable in that name of art?\r\n\r\nI hope not.
    \r\n\r\nGiampa\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-12 06:13:41'
- author:
    name: FlorianCH
  body: "Giampa, my command of English apparantly didn\u2019t allow me to write precisely
    what I meant. I would suggest to anyone interested in this thread and the topic
    to read Fiona MacCarthys brilliant book on Gill or another well-researched source
    and not just rely on some vague rumours. It\u2019s so easy to pick up a scandalous
    fact on the internet and then cry for morals and censorship.\r\nTo know about
    Gill\u2019s background doesn\u2019t excuse his behavior in any way \u2013 what
    he did has to be considered a crime, no doubt about that. But there emerges a
    picture of a patriarchal community \u2013\_a sect \u2013\_which was extremely
    creative and productive. So to me, it is an fascinating, if deeply problematic
    story about patriarchism and sectism, which makes Gill an important, but not unusual
    figure in the context of the early twentieth century. It is striking in how many
    artists\u2019 and patriarchal communities, which have been extremely creative
    at times, the same issues of promiscuity and misleaded sexual freedom have arised.\r\nThis
    is a tale about Britain in the twenties, about the status of the artist, about
    religion and patriarchism. I am speaking from a historian\u2019s point of view
    \u2013 whether you want to distance you from his output, is your matter of choice.
    So what I suggest is research and historical awareness, not censorship (I think
    many of Gill\u2019s sculptures and drawings are just horrid, by the way, but still
    I\u2019m interested in them.)\r\nI would like this thread to be continued, but
    not with cheap polemics \xE0 la \xABWould you put a drawing by Saddam Hussein
    above your bed?\xBB\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-12 09:14:13'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "FlorianCH \r\n\r\n\xABWould you put a drawing by Saddam Hussein above your
    bed?\r\n\r\nI am surprised. I knew Hussein was a poet and gardener, but never
    knew he was a painter. Not wishing to purchase Gill's type on account of his sins
    is mute in my case. I don't care for his types, or subscribe to his failed semi-justified-ragged-right
    nonsense. Also, I was never a fan of his fashion statement which made him look
    like a bearded lady at the circus. Although, it suited him for reasons which are
    made obvious by his unmentionable predilections.\r\n\r\nAlso, margins on books
    were not meant so your thumbs could hold books while riding the train. So you
    see, underaged daughters were not the only things he was buggering up.\r\n\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2007-01-13 06:37:53'
- author:
    name: FlorianCH
  body: "OK, you apparently want to go on railing a bit on the \xABcircus lady\xBB
    \u2013\_that\u2019s not very helpful, but at least funny at times. "
  created: '2007-01-13 08:18:51'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "If we're going to write off everyone involved in the arts who did something
    morally reprehensible there's going to be a pretty short list of remainders. Picasso
    was a misogynistic lech. Carravaggio was a rapist and murderer. Wagner was an
    anti-semite (as were plenty of other important people before World War II.). I
    could go on listing the flaws of famous dead people for hours. Given how many
    people around the world still find homosexuality morally offensive, it would be
    easy to write off most of the artists of the Italian Renaissance, and a tremendous
    amount of art in general.\r\n\r\nWhat's important is that we learn from the past
    and not repeat the mistakes of our predecessors. But if we bury the artistic achievements
    of everyone whose behavior pisses somebody off, there's not going to be much left."
  created: '2007-01-13 14:34:12'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "jpad,\r\n\r\nMany wrongs don't make a right. Besides most artists are good
    people. Not much would be lost, especially with the likes of Carravaggio. What
    is lost in history could be found in the overlooked art of women in history. You
    think non of them painted? Start naming them.\r\n\r\nA little project of mine.\r\n\r\nGiampa\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-13 15:34:18'
- author:
    name: FlorianCH
  body: "\xABMost artist are good people.\xBB\r\n\r\n\u2026 as well as all female
    artists, I suppose. That\u2019s probably why they have always been suppressed\_\u2026
    As if the whole question of creativity was so simple. Again: I think what is hard
    to accept is that \xABgood people\xBB do not necessarily produce great art, nor
    do \xABbad people\xBB necessarily produce tasteless things. On the contrary, it
    is often disconcerting to see that talented artists push the limits in every possible
    way. And: Who defines what is a \xABgood person\xBB anyway? You? "
  created: '2007-01-13 16:18:54'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "FlorianCH\r\n\r\n\"Who defines what is a \xABgood person\xBB anyway? You?\"\r\n\r\nSleeping
    with non consenting underage daughters would make one bad. I am not sure what
    would make you good. But I am sure you are, or at least, I hope.\r\n\r\nI am not
    the most \"goodest person\" according to some. I am a non believer, if that is
    helpful.\r\n\r\nActually this thread is moving towards the \"roots of inspiration\"
    maybe we should move towards those goals. What inspires you?\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2007-01-13 23:11:15'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: .
  created: '2007-01-14 09:41:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What inspires me is after fighting with the form a typeface i am working
    on might take, then redoing it many times over, I finally pull a proof which starts
    to feel like I am headed in the right direction.  It is as silly as that. I don't
    think about grandios things or philosophy or even beauty. I just do stuff and
    then tinker with it forever (or so it seems). Not too inspiring I know but that
    is all I have.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-14 15:03:56'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Neat article:\r\nhttp://www.traditioninaction.org/HotTopics/j005htGill_Distributism_Odou.htm"
  created: '2007-01-14 15:58:02'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "UK has always had strict laws against homosexuality, they may have forgotten
    about the rest.\r\n\r\nAs far as abuse in general--it was always swept under the
    rug. It is only in recent years that it is publicly spoken about. And you know,
    some of what is reported as abuse, I wonder about. (I'm one who laughed all the
    way through reading <em>Mommy, Dearest</em>. Didn't you?)\r\n\r\nFavorite South
    Park to date -- ADD and the video tape on how to stop it. However, corporal punishment
    has been banished...."
  created: '2007-01-14 18:37:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "You're right Jackie, there are many forms of child abuse which are institutionalized,
    tolerated, and fashionable.\r\nBestiality is less harmful to animals than killing
    and eating them, or performing chemical experiments on them, but it's illegal.
    In the UK that's a recent law, and the UK has a strong animal rights subculture,
    so perhaps it's a step in that direction.\r\nAlso, Green policy favours vegetarianism. "
  created: '2007-01-14 21:03:55'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I am glad I have seen the Leni Riefenstahl films - I don't care to look at
    Hitler's artwork - I don't have a problem with Mr. Gill's fonts - I have a problem
    with WalMart.\r\n\r\nLife is not a tidy affair\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-01-14 21:38:31'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">Neat article\r\n\r\nDan, that series of articles has such an obvious agenda
    that I truly doubt that they are, in terms of an accurate history, worth the reading.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-15 08:26:49'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Oh, they are ridiculously biased. Yet I still found them a bit informative,
    when you cut out the clutter. Plus, the text is just a hoot!
  created: '2007-01-15 08:38:05'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: '[Edit]'
  created: '2012-07-28 15:48:56'
date: '2007-01-02 17:20:25'
title: Looking for Mr Gill...

---
