---
author:
  name: nvhladek
  picture: 112094
body: "I am the associate pastor at the First Presbyterian Church of Ukiah, CA and
  was brought on to work with youth and families and revitalize the congregation's
  aging population.  Step #1 was get a website with a reasonable, simple design, and
  a logo to suit it.\r\n\r\nSo I have started with this design concept, but am wondering
  what would be some helpful directions I could take with it (including start over).\r\n\r\nAn
  explanation of the design:\r\n\r\nThe celtic cross is the centerpiece of the church's
  architecture.\r\nThe five \"lines\" mimic the roofline of the church.  They also
  represent the five values of our congregation taken from our purpose statement.\r\nThe
  blue and green represent the natural landscape of Ukiah, which is an agricultural
  community in Mendocino County in Northern California.\r\n\r\nA tension I am also
  trying to convey:\r\nThe piece is attempting to convey a sense of simplicity because
  many of the folks here resonate with traditional values.\r\nI am also trying to
  communicate a slightly progressive tone, since Ukiah is also a young community located
  in wine country that values organic/sustainable living.\r\n\r\nPlease let me know
  what you think with frankness and forthrightness.  I am an amateur but very teachable."
comments:
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: Hire a professional.
  children:
  - author:
      name: nvhladek
      picture: 112094
    body: "j_polo9:  I would love to hire a professional, but my budget is exactly
      $0.  I should have mentioned that.\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-01-03 17:11:33'
  created: '2007-01-03 08:50:58'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "Seconded. \r\nAlso, i'd rethink using the celtic cross as a starting point,
    as it has a strong association with racism, white power etc., and i don't think
    that's what you want to communicate in the first place?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: nvhladek
      picture: 112094
    body: 'franzheidl: No, I definitely do not want to communicate racism/white power
      with my logo, but I too am wondering where you are getting this white power
      association with the celtic cross.'
    created: '2007-01-03 17:16:41'
  created: '2007-01-03 10:24:35'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "G'day Nick,\r\n\r\nAnnoying, lost my long post due to my dial-up dropping
    out.\r\n\r\nAnyway, hey my name's Nick and I go to a presbyterian church and I
    am on typophile too, cool.\r\n\r\nI can't bear to write as I did the first time
    so I'll try and hit the high points: you said your MO was simplicity but unfortunately
    I have to say this logo looks quite abstract and convulted: you have sky + grass
    + cross + church pire + 5 steps + thick black lines. \r\n\r\nTry picking one of
    your concepts and just going with that, forget the rest, a logo doesn't need to
    symbolise all your church is, it is just a mark that identifies you, it is not
    necessary to try and put all your vision statement in there. \r\n\r\nUse your
    concept (for eg: cross) as a jumping off point, make associations, follow the
    creative process, try lots of variations, it doesn't need to have a 1:1 relationship
    with your concept (church:image of church)try formal/literal/symbolic/expressive
    approaches. Most important thing is keep it very strong and very simple. When
    your concept gets tired and you have nothing you like, try a different concept
    and start again. This is very frustrating but I think there's no easier way. One
    of the simplest things that I did was to buy a cheap pad and use lots of paper
    without worrying about how much I was wasting.\r\n\r\nOh also, someone else wisely
    said don't design logos in colour, it makes you rely on colour for meaning, distracting
    you from the more important issues of form and structure. \r\n\r\nIf the celtic
    cross symbolises white-power, perhaps this is a good reason to ditch it, but perhaps
    there may be a way of rendering it so these associations arn't made, I'm not sure,
    that was news to me, thanks Franzheidl for that info\r\n\r\nIt is time-consuming
    to produce a successful logo. It might be worth investigating hiring a professional;
    it probably won't cost as much as you think, you're not IBM wanting a corporate
    ID update, the designers won't (shouldn't) charge you as if you were.\r\n\r\nhope
    this help\r\n\r\nNick"
  children:
  - author:
      name: nvhladek
      picture: 112094
    body: "nicholasgross:  Thanks for your feedback.  I will take your advice into
      account.  \r\n\r\nWould be appropriate / in line with typophile etiquette to
      post some other concepts I have once I develop them?\r\n\r\nMuch appreciated."
    created: '2007-01-03 17:23:55'
  created: '2007-01-03 13:38:11'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "You are asking the logo to represent way too much literally. It's really
    hard to pull something like that off.\r\n\r\nAs stated by others, simplify, simplify,
    simplify..."
  created: '2007-01-03 14:48:52'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "Of course keep posting new concepts! Although having a zero doller budget
    for something as important as your churches identity is rather ill founded.\r\n\r\nEven
    if you had a small budget you might be able to get someone in your church who
    is practiced in graphic design to create something for you. Or even appeal to
    your highschool aged group and have any artistic ones among them come up with
    sketches...\r\n\r\nMy advice would still be to stop. Get a budget. Hire a professional.
    Your identity is extremely important. Even making a temporary logo for the moment
    and changing it later is a waste and shows lack of foundation. Unless you are
    going for the whole build your house on sand metaphore..."
  created: '2007-01-03 18:08:35'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: To some people the Cross represents the plague of humanity, others Salvation.
    I wouldn't change my design based on pseudo-intellectual banter. People will hate
    Christianity no matter what 'style' of Cross represents your fellowship.
  created: '2007-01-03 18:45:00'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Celtic_cross\r\n\r\nI was unaware of any far-right
    connotation too, wikipedia agrees with Franz though, especially as far as the
    simplified version goes, maybe it is a mainland European thing. You could look
    at a more traditional celtic cross shape with heavier strokes for the crossbars
    than the circle, maybe to the extent of including the circular cutouts on the
    horizontal and vertical.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand a simple wordmark could do the
    job, I would tend to avoid the rather obvious and ubiquitous script and look at
    something solid and reliable like Clarendon or Joanna combined with a colour can
    produce an attractive identity for your target demographic.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-03 19:32:10'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: Is there a graphic designer in your church? I've developed several identity
    systems for churches. If there is a designer in your church, he or she might love
    to do the work pro bono. Most creatives I know in churches would rather do it
    for the church pro bono than see it done badly by a non-professional.
  created: '2007-01-03 20:34:14'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "Yes, probably it's more of an european thing to associate the celtic cross
    with the far right, especially when used in it's basic form without any ornaments
    it is not only associated with, it literally means white power/supremacism over
    here \u2013 but i have also seen american nazis with celtic cross tattoos. I just
    wanted to point that out, as you might want to tread careful in that respect.
    If that association isn't a big issue in the US \u2013 fine.\r\n\r\nOn a completely
    different angle, using a cross (no matter if celtic or not) for a church identity
    just as it is seems a bit too obvious for me, as does the usage of iconicised
    architectural forms. That may well work for places like the Empire State Building,
    the Brandenburg Gate, etc. but in general it usually appears in institutional
    identities where, in the design process, nothing better could be agreed upon,
    especially when too many people where involved.\r\nI'd recommend to rather try
    to have a go along the five values of your congregation, and derive a much simpler,
    more abstract solution. Probably even type only.\r\nAnd forget about light blue
    and green, grass is green and the sky is blue \u2013 everywhere. \r\n"
  created: '2007-01-03 20:34:48'
- author:
    name: cooper design
    picture: 111844
  body: 'The solution to this particular graphic problem is to hire a professional.
    How you find the money to do so constitutes a separate problem altogether. '
  created: '2007-01-03 21:51:15'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I really wonder if an identity is that important for a church, will having
    a recognisable individual presence improve its perception by a prospective congregation?
    It could be said that any money which is expended on creating an identity could
    be better spent, and since it has been said that there isn't a budget for it,
    maybe it would be more productive to offer Nick some advice that he can act on.
    The alternative might be that he decides to visit a Logos R Us website or worse
    buy a logo from e-bay like the guy creating a pizza site did.\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-03 22:15:36'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "<cite>People will hate Christianity no matter what \u2018style\u2019 of Cross
    represents your fellowship.</cite>\r\n\r\nTo some the stench of death, to others
    the scent of life.\r\n\r\nYou're absolutely right, but it's good to narrow the
    options down so people are hating the cross and what it represents rather than
    white-power. It isn't pseudo-intellectual to discard a symbol based on possible
    wrong connotations, in the same way I would never use the typically australian
    <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eureka_Flag\"> Southern Cross flag </a>
    image, strong and potent as it it is, because of what it has come to also be used
    for.\r\n\r\nI like the idea of hiring a graphic designer in the chuch; they're
    eveywhere and mostly love to do it for free, especially if they're young and wanting
    the experience,\r\n\r\n--N"
  created: '2007-01-03 22:25:13'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Hey nvhladek , okay I'll speak frankly...\r\n\r\nYour congregation should
    gather up a mercy collection and hire a graphic designer for their own self preservation,
    and keep you far away from any design software. Don't tell me they can't do that,
    all you have to do is be honest with them and tell them you'll be doing the church
    harm by producing the graphic representation of their concerns, ok?\r\nBut having
    said that, and having studied your composition, you have given me an insight into
    how you personally understand 'the body of Christ' as represented in your graphic
    form, as it relates to society at large. \r\n\r\nLet's get past the obvious pleasant
    statements, that your effort is 'crude' or 'unrefined', and take a good look at
    the elements of your graphic understanding, ok?\r\n\r\nThose five black heavy
    segments drag the eye down, and therefore drag the spirit down. And although that
    central whatever it is, cuts/divides the canvas all by itself - those heavy black
    elements impose an overall dark downward force. I don't get that they are supposed
    to represent anything other than a deep heavy handed downward force, which by
    the way dominates the whole composition. \r\n\r\nAnd that central thing which
    divides the canvas in two, does not unite the canvas - it cuts the canvas complete
    with a blunt point. And it's heavy black outlines further represents an exclusion
    and not an 'inclusion'.\r\n\r\nThe gradients have two separate light sources which
    further enhances your confusion, although it is interesting to note that you tried
    to impart a lower right light source. Perhaps to balance off all that oppression?
    Which by the way, could be the most interesting (and natural) area of the entire
    effort.\r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro"
  created: '2007-01-04 06:37:00'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<em>Those five black heavy segments drag the eye down, and therefore drag
    the spirit down.</em>\r\n\r\nDo you really believe that? \r\nWould it therefore
    be uplifting if the steps/roof went in the opposite direction?\r\n\r\nAll this
    talk about hiring a graphic designer raises another question, how does one know
    that one has hired a 'good' designer? How can one make a choice when shown three
    options (I suspect the answer is that it would come down to familiarity, use of
    a favoured colour or some other way of breaking down a visual, looking for an
    element that one feels comfortable with approving and choosing that)? It is not
    as if there is an opportunity to form an in-depth relationship between client
    and designer for a short term project like this. \r\n\r\nWhich brings me back
    to my previous post, would a church be better served by a website that is well
    laid out without a logo than taking a chance on an under-developed appreciation?
    My opinion is that a poorly designed/chosen/executed logo is worse than no logo.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-04 08:58:30'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Budget: You could find a designer who is willing to donate his/her time.
    A lot of designers give their time to causes they can get behind. Having no budget
    doesn't mean you have to do it yourself. (Which, by the way Hiroshige, is what
    this thread has become... designers giving consultation for free. But you just
    might get what you pay for. =)\r\n\r\nDesign: Others have suggested simplifying...
    If there is something \"on brand\" about the Celtic cross as it relates to Presbyterianism
    then stick with it, but simplify the grass, sky, steps, border thing. (Is the
    Celtic cross similar to the the Lutheran cross w/ flame design is very recognizable?)\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    all that aside, you may want to just select a nice, classically rendered serif
    typeface as a logotype in lieu of a logo mark. (Which is similar to what Timd
    is suggesting.)"
  created: '2007-01-04 11:14:19'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Your congregation should gather up a mercy collection and hire a graphic
    designer for their own self preservation, and keep you far away from any design
    software.\"\r\n\r\nOh please.\r\n\r\nIt's *JUST* a logo. We graphic designers
    take ourselves a tad too seriously at times..."
  children:
  - author:
      name: mnott
      picture: 111664
    body: "\"Oh please.\r\nIt\u2019s *JUST* a logo. We graphic designers take ourselves
      a tad too seriously at times\u2026\"\r\n\r\nI take it very seriously. \r\nThe
      fact of the matter is computers have been put into the hands of everyone and
      it has become quite damaging to design. \r\nI think everyone here can relate
      stories about clients who are \"empowered\" by their PC programs."
    created: '2007-01-05 17:15:16'
  created: '2007-01-04 15:02:36'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Re the Celtic Cross - if it's part of the church's architecture, then go
    ahead and use it. Nobody will associate a Celtic Cross on a church with White
    Supremacy.\r\n\r\nAs for the logo itself, I agree that it is much too busy. Furthermore,
    constraining it in a square does not convey openness, which from your description
    is what you probably want. Another very important factor in this will be your
    use of type with the logo.\r\n\r\nMy suggestion: Take out the black square, the
    five black shapes, and the green and blue gradients. Work with just the central
    Cross shape and try different ideas (e.g. make the three vertical lines different
    lengths or play with negative space in the centre of the Cross). Do all of your
    sketching by hand, not on the computer.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2007-01-04 18:53:47'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "<em>Do you really believe that?\r\nWould it therefore be uplifting if the
    steps/roof went in the opposite direction?</em>\r\n\r\nComposition should move
    the eye throughout a work, and each element should lead to the next (same theory
    for sound type design?). A lot of religious compositions use a triangular scheme,
    but there are many many other schemes which have their own characters.\r\nThe
    triangular theme is most common in regious art is because a firgure and it's subserviant
    elements thereof are for the most part centrally placed, which imparts a feeling
    of stability/solidity. But, if that central element is impacted by a heavy diagonal
    which cuts across the entire format (in this case a squarish format), then conflict
    is the result.\r\n\r\nSound composition is everything, without it the message
    is lost. And when the composition has been settled, rhythm has a chance. Rhythmic
    unity is a major part of any sound composition, but when a rhythm is heavy and
    uniform it is seen as repetitive to an extreme, like those five heavy black elements.\r\n\r\nThe
    celtic cross and the five elements which give your congregation their unique character
    are the starting elements of your composition - stop trying to tie them to crap
    architecture. They can stand on their own.\r\n\r\nJoe, you're so right...\r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro\r\n\r\n
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-01-04 19:23:46'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Hiro,\r\nI understand and appreciate composition and I agree with you about
    the five steps, my real question was whether a composition that dragged the eye
    down would drag the spirit down and whether the opposite was true. \r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-04 20:00:24'
- author:
    name: Brian_
    picture: 110618
  body: "Graphic design can greatly enhance a church's ability to communicate but
    they do not need an identity to survive.\r\n\r\nIf you don't have a budget, how
    will you pay for web hosting, brochures, printing a 4 color logo, shipping, etc?
    That is like saying.. \"I need a car. Where can I find a free car? Maybe I will
    make one.\"\r\n\r\nAlso think of it this way: You don't have the budget to do
    it incorrectly.\r\n\r\nYou might try going online and finding a presbyterian congregation
    whose identity you like, and ask them for assistance.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-05 07:01:22'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "You could say that any company or organization does not need an identity
    to surive, that is not the point nor is it wise. Lack of an identity is still
    part of your identity, it just shows rather poorly for your organization.\r\n\r\nCertain
    social views hold aesthetics as useless and might condem the use of church funds
    where they might be spent with more \"meaning\" in other areas. But people forget
    that Aesthetics is the philisophical branch that is tied in with Ethics and should
    achieve many things to do good for the church that can only be done Aesthetically.\r\n\r\nWith
    so many religions and branches and competing branches of these churches the right
    identity can set apart this particular church with it's values and goals; it can
    create a road map for the success of the church and inspire new members to attend.
    It seems fairly odd that many churches would spend whatever it takes to build
    or rent the right building for their congregation but view their actual identity
    as superficial and not worth paying for when it is actually one of the most vital
    things it can have."
  created: '2007-01-05 07:29:03'
- author:
    name: TheMark
    picture: 109832
  body: "The funny part about this whole discussion, for me, is many of you tell this
    wellmeaning preist that he should find someone to do pro bono work for him, but
    nobody actually offers their help. And it seems to me that all the time you super
    experts use on this discussion and website shows me that you could easily find
    time do a better logo for the man...\r\n\r\nTo quote Milinium; \"It\u2019s *JUST*
    a logo\"! And it is - just ONE logo... \r\n\r\nDear mr. nvhladek. If your not
    in TOO much of a hurry and don't mind working with designers overseas - write
    me an e-mail and we'll see if we can help you... pro bono - OFCOURSE! :o)\r\n\r\n\r\nWe
    love beautiful things\r\nmark@enterthemark.com"
  created: '2007-01-05 08:44:24'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "The curious thing I have found in doing work for free is that I always seem
    merely to be giving the mouse a cookie...\r\n\r\nAnd in most instances, if a person
    does not value the work enough to pay for it then what value will he find in it
    being done for free?"
  created: '2007-01-05 11:38:11'
- author:
    name: battlefield
  body: good point, <strong>j_polo9</strong>!
  created: '2007-01-05 12:16:50'
- author:
    name: TheMark
    picture: 109832
  body: "The value of helping people is for me, pretty valuable and if a person does
    not like my work..well I never take that personal - its all a matter of taste.
    But if I have some spare time I would rather help somebody than scrath my ego.
    Besides - it's all learning and getting better.\r\n\r\nOne can never make a 100%
    on each asignment and it's not the biggest payoffs that made me happy... It's
    the coolest job and the happiest of clients... \r\n\r\nBut lets not use this forum
    about a logo for this kind of discussion, huh?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-05 14:09:14'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "As for offering help, it seems to me there is still a conceit that design
    is a \u2018guild\u2019 industry that a professional will necessarily achieve a
    <em>better</em> result than an enthusiastic amateur, one will probably be quicker
    than the other and, hopefully, have avoided some of the pitfalls, however anyone
    who has access to even a basic computer can create. And, if someone has taken
    the trouble to come up with a concept and sought help or critiques, then I am
    happy to advise them.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-05 14:59:37'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "The difference that I see, after reading this thread, is that people see
    things differently and there is NOTHING wrong with that. I applaud Mark for his
    desire to help where he can. He didn't use the word free when he offered to help
    which makes me believe that he sees the value in helping. If someone does think
    they'd be doing it for free then they don't see the value that can be had in doing
    probono. BUT, that is OK. Not everyone can do everything, nor does everyone have
    TIME to do everything. \r\n\r\nIt isn't just a logo. Nick posted on Typophile
    seeking assistance and suggestions. He sees value in what Typophile has to offer.
    Why is that not enough to take it seriously?"
  created: '2007-01-05 18:12:22'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I take it very seriously.\r\nThe fact of the matter is computers have been
    put into the hands of everyone and it has become quite damaging to design.\"\r\n\r\nIt
    hasn't damaged anything. People are designers. It's what makes us people. Everyone
    does it. Always have, always will. Some of us just happen to focus on it and make
    a living at it.\r\n\r\nNow, I'm not saying a logo isn't important, but in the
    grand scheme of things, there are often other much more important variables that
    come into play that effect the success or failure of the venture.\r\n\r\nIf nvhladek
    wants to make his own logo, that's not going to effect the motion of the planets
    or anything. If he wants advice on how to improve it, and we want to help him,
    we should. \r\n\r\nI just don't think we need to imply that he's committed some
    terrible sin by wanting to explore his own creativity."
  created: '2007-01-05 21:35:30'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: What an interesting thread this has turned out to be!
  created: '2007-01-06 13:32:44'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite>I really wonder if an identity is that important for a church, will
    having a recognisable individual presence improve its perception by a prospective
    congregation? </cite>etc.\r\n\r\nSecond every single word, Tim.\r\n\r\nProbono
    and free are 2 different things as far as I know. Pro Bono Publico means \"for
    the public good\". Can a Presbiteryan Church (or any church for that matter) be
    considered a good cause? I confess the organic wine association is very tempting
    but I still think it doesn't qualify as a good cause. Not to me anyway. \r\nBeing
    Italian I grew up very suspicious of churches, especially when they say they have
    no money. Hope this doesn't offend anyone.\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: nvhladek
      picture: 112094
    body: "The first thing I have to say, is WOW.  I did not expect such a response
      to my posting of my (admittedly pokey) first attempt at designing a logo for
      this church.\r\n\r\nThe second thing I need to say is \"thank you!\" because
      your comments have been althogether helpful, even the most pointed and critical
      of them.  I have *learned* about design through this discussion, and that is
      excellent.  I have not been offended by anything I have seen posted here.  I
      have benefited, in fact.\r\n\r\nThirdly, for those who have offered free advice,
      or follow-ups via e-mail addresses, I may contact you soon.  It turns out that
      I have a graphic designer friend who has offered to consult with me as I blunder
      through the design steps, so I may be able to accomplish what I want with his
      assistance.  But for others who offered, many thanks.\r\n\r\nTo tie up some
      other loose ends:\r\nWhy do I not have any money to design a logo?  Well, not
      to get too much into the nitty-gritty details of my congregation, but I am an
      associate pastor for a population in transition.  The older congregants would
      not understand spending US$50 on designing an ID, nevermind that such costs
      could go into four digits.  To ask the leaders in the church for hundreds, perhaps
      even thousands of dollars, for something as intangible as a logo ... I would
      be laughed out of the room.\r\n\r\nThe younger congregation, including our senior
      pastor, has the idea that you do it right the first time.  But she and I have
      to hold in tension the fact that there are more pressing things we need to pay
      for in the church, such as new windows.  So it's not that I don't value paying
      for good graphic design.  It's just that I cannot wait five years to get to
      the point where I can ask for the money.  At this point, we don't even have
      a WEBSITE.  Not even a BAD website.  So please understand where and how I am
      trying to lead this congregation.\r\n\r\nGoing back to the design, I know that
      my initial attempt did not *feel* right.  I just didn't know *why*.  So I figured
      if I were to post it in a place where people might take my design seriously
      enough even to say \"hire a professional,\" it just might be worth my while.
      \ And it certainly has been.\r\n\r\nI myself am in a profession where those
      who are the trained practitioners of the field can get the sense that they are
      the only ones who can properly administer their vocation.  And in many senses,
      that's true.  I know more about the Bible, about spirituality, about worship
      practices and about how to make Christianity practical than the average person
      in the pew.  The whole philosophy of the Presbyterian \"flavor\" of Christianity,
      however, is that every member is a minister who has a place in the world to
      do some work for God.  So my primary job, as my church understands it, is to
      help \"non-professionals,\" so to speak, do the work of ministry.\r\n\r\nNow
      the analogy will most likely break down here, but I hope you can understand
      how I am trying to put this principle into practice with graphic design.  I
      am not a graphic designer by trade, but I fully will use people who are designers
      as guides to help my development in this area.  Will I ever be a professional
      designer?  Probably not.  But could I produce a decent - not revolutionary -
      but decent product with the assistance of a community of designers?  I would
      hope so.  Now it may turn out that graphic design is not an egaltarian field
      such as my own.  I leave that discussion to designers, however, since I have
      no desire to get involved in an \"in-house\" debate, so to speak.\r\n\r\nPeace
      to all of you who have lent your perspective.\r\n\r\n- Nick"
    created: '2007-01-06 18:39:20'
  created: '2007-01-06 17:01:15'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Nick, just out of curiosity: how much would a job like this cost in your
    area? Just for the logo. Do you have an idea? Did you ask around in Ukiah? I'd
    be interested to know. \r\n\r\n<cite>It seems fairly odd that many churches would
    spend whatever it takes to build or rent the right building for their congregation
    but view their actual identity as superficial and not worth paying for when it
    is actually one of the most vital things it can have.</cite>\r\n\r\nNot odd at
    all. From the marketing point of view the logo is probably vital but having nice,
    comfortable, equipped premises for meetings and activities and a safe place to
    welcome families and young people is far more important to me. \r\n\r\n<cite>stop
    trying to tie them to crap architecture.</cite>\r\nCrap architecture? Says who?
    Hiro, do you actually know what does the building represent for this particular
    community in that particular area? It might be historically important or it might
    have sentimental value. I don't think it's fair to dismiss it like that."
  created: '2007-01-06 18:48:27'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "<em>I myself am in a profession where those who are the trained practitioners
    of the field can get the sense that they are the only ones who can properly administer
    their vocation. And in many senses, that\u2019s true. I know more about the Bible,
    about spirituality, about worship practices and about how to make Christianity
    practical than the average person in the pew. The whole philosophy of the Presbyterian
    \u201Cflavor\u201D of Christianity, however, is that every member is a minister
    who has a place in the world to do some work for God. So my primary job, as my
    church understands it, is to help \u201Cnon-professionals,\u201D so to speak,
    do the work of ministry.</em>\r\n\r\nWith that paragraph you have already done
    the design.\r\n\r\nYou already know the major and minor elements of the design
    which give your congregation it's heart and unique character... and that above
    paragraph practically designs itself. And since I cannot teach you how to communicate
    with your church elders on the import of how you present yourselves within society
    - then I await your next half dozen rough drafts.\r\n\r\nGive a man a fish, and
    he will eat for a day - Teach a man to fish, and he will eat forever.\r\n\r\n___________\r\nHiro"
  created: '2007-01-06 19:03:20'
date: '2007-01-03 07:41:50'
title: Church Identity Starting Point

---
