---
author:
  name: nicholasgross
  picture: 111028
body: "G'day Philers,\r\n\r\nI'm producing a short-run book based on personal correpondence
  which includes a lot of sepia-toned old photos. To keep costs down, we have (after
  much quoting and re-quoting) decided to go with a dark sepia colour for the entire
  book (something like: PMS 497) keeping the text the darkest tone and using the tonal
  variations for the photos, with an off-white/cream paper.\r\n\r\nI need to know
  what the job would look like done our way in one colour. I've just spoken with someone
  else who did a similar job and she was saying that photos she had in one colour
  ended up looking 'flat' and so she went with a duotone instead. Does anyone know
  of any exampes I could look at of this type of thing, or has anyone else done a
  similar thing and could tell me what the result was like?\r\nAny help would be greatly
  appreciated\r\nHappy New Year\r\n\r\n--N"
comments:
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "Is the paper uncoated, or coated? If uncoated (always my preference for anything
    with lots of text) the halftones will be a lot trickier to get right. Certainly
    a really high quality sheet would work -- here in the States I would spec something
    like Dulcet or Superfine to behave best on press, but even a lesser sheet such
    as Cougar Opaque has good enough formation to give you decent ink hold-out. I'd
    definitely work <em>with</em> the printer on this one from beginning to end, to
    maximize the results you are after, and reduce chance for painful surprises.\r\n\r\nIf
    the photos are all old and have uneven dynamic range (and thus not a lot of detail
    in the three-quarter tones), I suppose you could try to have the pictures print
    a bit fuller down there in the dark end, risking plugging here and there in exchange
    for a bit more sheer weight and presence in the shadows. No doubt about it, though,
    a properly-done duotone is <em>always</em> going to carry things off better than
    a single-strike halftone, simply because you have two passes of ink, one sealing
    up that sponge-y paper surface and allowing the other one to sit up on top.\r\n\r\nIf
    it is going on coated paper, my instinct tells me that there is even less chance
    of halftones looking okay, as they'll simply feel washed out. Even black halftones
    can look washed out. Weirdly enough, I'd venture that you stand a better chance
    of the pictures looking rich if printed on uncoated, by a really fine printer,
    than doing them with any printer on coated, just because the clay will let those
    tiny relief dots shine out in the shadow areas. If coated, and only one pass of
    ink, I'd plump for dull finish over silk or gloss (better for the reader reading
    the type anyway).\r\n\r\nUnless you are going with a really top-flight printer
    (here in the states it would be somebody like Stinehour), I'd also tend to use
    a slightly coarser screen ruling (maybe 150 lines per inch instead of 175 or 200)
    simply to gain the tiny bit of extra contrast in the pictures. (That would be
    60 lines per cm instead of 70 or 80, yes?)\r\n\r\nAnd you say sepia: please look
    at the fanned sheets of your Pantone book and notice what happens to 497 as it
    pastels out (using the sheets is not a perfect means of predicting this, but it
    is a useful exercise). Basically you have 499 to which either K or transparent
    white has been added, and as you go toward pastel, you can see how very pinky-red
    the color goes. That is what your quarter tones are going to look like. I have
    often used 4625 for this kind of work, as it is almost as dark as an ink like
    497, but its color feels more like what people <em>think of</em> as sepia toning
    across the spectrum of darks to lights.\r\n\r\nDuotones would surely be safer
    if you could afford it, as they would give you more latitude on press, and more
    punch in your shadows and three-quarter tones.\r\n\r\nMy two cents anyway. With
    luck Patty and some of the other bookies will chime in with their instincts and
    experiences.\r\n\r\nAs for printed examples, visit your favorite paper merchant's
    sample room and see what you can dig up. Here in the States, in the old days you
    could have asked S. D. Warren's Idea Exchange for samples, but since they got
    bought out by Sappi I don't think that is running anymore. But there should be
    plenty of printed propaganda lying about from the usual suspects of paper mills
    to give you a sense of how it will look. (Do you guys get sheets imported from
    U. S. Mills such as  Mohawk, Monadnock, Simpson/Fox River, or Weyerhauser?)"
  created: '2007-01-03 07:34:44'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Wowee,\r\n\r\nThat is so comprehensive, you are very kind, thankyou. \r\n\r\nInteresting
    to see about coated and non-coated; from my scant experience I have noticed a
    propensity for coated halftones to look washed-out, I really want to avoid this
    if we go down the monotone path so uncoated seems the way to go. \r\n\r\nObviously
    I want to go duotone but the problem is that the photos are scattered tghroughout
    the book adding time and expense for using the second plate, also my printer gave
    me a bit of a scare saying that producing duotones is tricky getting the screen
    angles right etc, etc which would add more time/expense to my end of things. The
    price is getting up to the client's limit as it is, that's why I wanted to tie
    it down to one-colour, we thought it was a needless expense printing old sepia
    photos in 4-colour and perhaps slightly unnecessary/bit expensive to do the duos.
    Then again if the result are going to look cheapish we may need to re-consider
    (again... oh boy, there have been about 5 or 6 different quotes for this job and
    I've kind of tied the client down to the montone as being the best option for
    the money eeek! Who would ever work in print?).\r\n\r\nPoint taken about 497,
    I chose it quickly as an example for my post but I will definately look at 4625.\r\n\r\nI
    doubt we would import specialty papers from America for this kind of job, it really
    is a short-run job for an only *potentially* saleable personal book. We have a
    fairly big supplier here in Tasmania Spicer's Paper and they carry a *reasonably*
    extensive specialty line but again it just jacks the price up.\r\n\r\nThankyou
    again for such a well-considered and knowledgeable response, just the kind of
    thing I was after. Do you know of any books I could lay my hands on that demonstrate
    monotone/duotone only (not how-to books, just examples)?\r\ncheers\r\n\r\nNick"
  created: '2007-01-03 12:49:14'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<em>the photos are scattered throughout the book</em>\r\nDepending on the
    binding and finishing, if you and the printer can work it out, you might be able
    to gang the images onto one or two folios and print them duotone, (btw and off-topic,
    a cmyk scan, desaturated, can produce a gorgeous sepia-like appearance). \r\nPantone
    tint books show halftone representations (which are the same as a monotone) in
    a small scale, I don't know of a resource for duotones.\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-03 14:23:36'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "A monotone print not in black will always have less contrast that if done
    in pure black. So chances are someone will see it as being a bit washed out.\r\n\r\nDuotones
    are preferable. \r\n\r\nAs Bruce points out, tinting any shade of red can be difficult
    as it all turns to pink fairly quickly (unless pink is what you are after, of
    course...)\r\n\r\nAs for samples, way back in the day (before I did all this web
    stuff) most of the paper companies had promos that included duotone samples. Maybe
    call around to some of the sample departments and see what they have."
  created: '2007-01-03 14:46:25'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Hey thanks again peoples,\r\n\r\nTimd, by ganged together, do you mean that
    they will appear as a block in the finished piece or just printed together and
    then spaced out? We did think of that but then you still need to hand insert all
    the pages which adds time and money (it will be perfect-bound). Client doesn't
    want the images collected together in sections. Sorry if I've misunderstood.\r\n\r\nThanks
    aluminium, maybe i need to visit a paper merchants, i thought perhaps I could
    wander into a bookshop and find boks that exemplify the results of this process.\r\n\r\nthanks
    again for your advice\r\n\r\n--N"
  created: '2007-01-04 03:06:01'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Both Tim and Bruce have got some great points.  \r\n\r\nThat being said,
    I did a project in 2000 that was done B/W on a coated stock with a varnish on
    the photos that made them both glow and have a sepia-like tone: we also had a
    varnish with knock-outs over the \"feature\" article that looked amazing.  For
    the project (a museum catalogue of architecture from 1947-1967), it was perfect.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-04 03:46:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Nick, there is indeed a strong possibility this job will look washed out
    and dull, however nicely it's done.  Linda's idea of a spot varnish (which can
    have a subtle colour) sounds manageable, without the difficulty of optimizing
    duotones.\r\n\r\nAnyway, don't miss the press approval!"
  created: '2007-01-04 05:39:10'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Thanks Nick/Linda,\r\n\r\nSpot varnish is roughly equivalent to having a
    second colour cost-wise isn't it? Nice idea, I can't say I ever recall seeing
    it done, it could add to that specialty look. I think I'm going to have to bite
    the bullet and ask my broker for another quote, he's just been on holidays, he's
    probably well rested what could possibly go wrong?\r\n\r\nNick thanks for your
    honest assessment, that's valuable. Also, just wondered if you follow the cricket
    over there in Toronto ;)\r\nThanks for your time\r\n\r\n--N"
  created: '2007-01-04 12:22:15'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Here's a way to emulate what the pictures will look like:\r\n\r\nIn PhotoShop
    RGB-mode \u2014 fill a small square with the Sepia colour. Convert to Grayscale.
    Use the pipet-tool to determine the gray value (eg 82%). That's what the darkest
    parts of your photo's are going to be.\r\nOpen a few sample pictures in Grayscale.
    Using Adjustments:Curves pull the 100% input handle to the value you just determined.
    Now convert the image to Duotone (using a single PMS-colour of course \u2014 the
    one you are going to use to print the job). \r\nThis will give you a fair aproximation\u2026"
  created: '2007-01-04 15:27:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Cricket?\r\nThere was a small paragraph in the Toronto Star this morning
    about England's impending whitewash, duly noted, but I've been a baseball and
    hockey fan ever since I arrived in Canada in 1977. Actually, squash is my game,
    but it gets less press here than cricket, apart from the odd Jonathon Power profile
    by a journalist who's just discovered him. So it's a bit like typography -- underappreciated,
    shall we say.\r\n\r\nReturning to the topic, I've tried monocoloured halftones
    occasionally throughout my career as an art director/graphic designer, and have
    almost always been disappointed with the results. Some designers can pull it off,
    but IMHO it requires an exceptional and quite specific talent/skill that very
    few art directors have, and not every graphic designer, certainly not myself --
    and it has nothing to do with typography. That's why I caution against it."
  created: '2007-01-04 18:54:54'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "Here's a thought, Nick. If you have already \"painted yourself into a corner\"
    with the pricing, and cannot afford duotones, what about making the pictures into
    line conversions? If the author is okay with it, and the content can bear up under
    the decidedly non-19th-century appearance, that might be a way to get a bit more
    dynamic range out of the images.\r\n\r\nThe trouble with halftones is that you
    can't flood the deep shadows with ink -- you have to leave a tiny relief dot in
    there or they look strange.\r\n\r\nWith a line conversion, you can let the deepest
    areas just go solid brown. Play around with coarseness, the fewer lines-per-cm
    giving you the most ink impact (with consequent loss of detail in the pictures)
    and the more lines-per-cm giving you more detail (but tending to look more washed
    out.)\r\n\r\nThe examples I've put in here are something I just wumped up in Photoshop
    using a quick-and-dirty filter routine. Usually I make line conversions in Quark,
    right in the document I'm designing. So the example here is very soft-looking
    compared to what it <em> could</em> look like. Judge it for the indication of
    \"liney\" personality, not for quality of finish. I'll stick a line conversion
    of a product shot at the end, with sharply-defined lines, just so you see what
    I mean if this concept is new to you. \r\n\r\nIf one of the printers you've asked
    for pricing is one that feels really <em>simpatico,</em> and you'd really like
    to work with them, why not take the problem to them, voice your concerns, and
    see what ideas they have to contribute. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MiddleSt_3575.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MiddleSt_line_6740.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/RPL25_40_6485.jpg]"
  created: '2007-01-04 20:29:16'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Thanks so much everybody for your wisdom,\r\n\r\nBert, thanks for your technique
    although i think I need my hand held a bit more: when I change the input to 88%
    (which is my sepia/gray value) the picture seems to go darker, I thought perhaps
    it would go lighter, when I change both input and output; I lose *lots* of detail
    in the shadows. Can you possibly be more specific? Also why do I need to do this?
    won't the monotone replicate the look of my sepia colour?\r\n\r\nNick, squash
    huh? It may actually be a typographer's responsibility to pursue obscure and under-appreciated
    pursuits in every other area of their lives just for the sake of remaining consistent,
    so congratualtions, i guess ;) I thought with your english background you may
    have still had some cricket stirrings, alas... I think Cananda actually has a
    reasonable cricket scene, I vaguely remember Australia playing Cananda at some
    point, I may be mistaken.\r\n\r\nAbout images: Yes I think I'm heading for some
    disappointment in this area, the other variable I failed to mention was that the
    stock is half-way B/W cream and off-white, I think that will bring a bit of warmth
    into the pictures but perhaps not quite enough. The really irritating thing is
    that originally these photos were printed in one colour: sepia, but over time
    old photo paper turns very yellow so we always associate that warm yellow colour
    with the look of sepia. In reality monotones are probably fairly close to how
    sepia probably looked on the day it was produced. \r\n\r\nThanks Bruce for your
    idea, painted into a corner is definately a good description of how I feel ATM,
    I think the linesceen might be a wee bit drastic in this case, cool as it does
    look, I doubt the client would go for it. I'll remember that as a technique though,
    it may come in handy.\r\n\r\nthanks again for all your help\r\n\r\n--N"
  created: '2007-01-04 23:37:31'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Nick G.: yes, our spot varnish was charged out the same as a second colour,
    and was well worth the cost.  And we had very high-end, drum-scanned .tifs for
    the photos, which also made a huge difference. \r\n\r\nThe curator of our show
    purchased 8 x 10 B/W photos from the museum archive, and received permission to
    scan and blow them up before mounting.  And \"up\" was the operative word: I have
    one of the enlargements and it is 5' wide x 4' high with no noticeable grain.\r\n\r\nPress
    approval is imperative for such an operation: we had a very good experience with
    our printer, who had extensive experience in doing high-end museum catalogues,
    and it really showed.\r\n\r\n(Y'all may be whitewashing the English this time,
    but with gents like Shane and Justin retiring, you might be in trouble next Ashes!)"
  created: '2007-01-05 02:11:56'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Linda C\r\n\r\nFor every Warne and Langer retiring there's a McGill, Clarke
    and Hussey. Plenty more where that came from ;) And if it doesn't, we might actually
    get to watch a game of cricket.\r\n\r\nYeah the varnish is an option but very
    much the unknown as far as I'm concerned, If it's the same price I would probably
    go the second ink before I did the varnish. I'm looking forward to the day when
    I get to use a big budget on an art piece and do things like spot varnishes while
    drum scanning everything, perhaps though what ou gain in quality you lose in sleep
    and fingernails.\r\n\r\nAgree about the press approval; I did a press approval
    for the first time on a previous book-cover job, I had made the mistake of showing
    the client my progress on my computer screen and so of course, when the reddish
    cover was printed, he wanted the red he saw on screen, not the red reproduced
    from the actual tranny...\r\n\r\nThanks for yor help\r\n\r\n--N"
  created: '2007-01-05 04:53:31'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "[.]\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-05 17:31:54'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: I don't have a working scanner at the moment, but would it help if I took
    some pix of our catalogue and posted them? Might just change your mind about the
    varnish....  ;-)
  created: '2007-01-05 22:59:22'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Maybe I wasnt clear enough ; ).\r\nYou keep INPUT at 100% and change OUTPUT
    to 88% (in other words: pull the endpoint down \u2014 the image becoming lighter
    is what happens). Loosing detail in the shadows is a given (one could circumvent
    some of that by applying a custom curve, eg pushing up the midpoint)."
  created: '2007-01-06 16:16:18'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "I bit the bullet and asked for the additional duotone quote, let's hope it's
    comparable.\r\n\r\nThanks everybody for your help, Linda if you're happy to post
    some pictures I'll be happy to see 'em, thanks. (is the 'L' on your picture friz
    quadrata?)\r\n\r\nBert, yes that works better, but I'm still unsure of why you
    need to do this to approximate the look of monotone, when you can just see it
    by applying a monotone in the duotone settings...\r\n\r\nthanks again\r\n\r\n--N"
  created: '2007-01-09 00:43:07'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I'll dig out the catalogue first thing in the morning and take some snaps
    then.\r\n\r\n(Nope, it's American Uncial Caps Bold.)  :-)"
  created: '2007-01-09 00:48:24'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Gr,\r\n\r\nI'm just seeing friz quadrata everywhere at the moment and thought
    it was more of the same but not so. Thanks heaps for the photos, if you're busy
    don't bother, but it would be good to see 'em\r\n\r\n--N"
  created: '2007-01-09 04:25:33'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "No worries....  ;-) I know what you mean about Friz: I used to like it a
    lot before it was over-used....\r\n\r\nSorry the lighting's not better!  Yes,
    we used a white stock....\r\n\r\nThis was the \"feature\" article -- we had the
    varnish run over most of the whole page (not bleed) with the little knock-outs.
    \ The same look was used on the cover, where, we used a second colour (can't remember
    the PMS, but it was avocado-ish).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/calmod1_6152.jpg]\r\n\r\nThis
    was the \"standard\" page. Articles all started on the verso and finished recto....\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/calmod2_5156.jpg]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-09 16:49:42'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Thanks Linda,\r\n\r\nThanks for taking the trouble to photograph these things,
    much appreciated and sorry for the delayed reply. Nice font, looks like futura
    but are the 't's different hm. \r\n\r\nThe pictures look good, the blacks seem
    like good blacks and there seems to be a good range of midtone, these are all
    good things (Happy gilmore) but to be honest I can't really get a feel for the
    unique effect of the varnish, this must be one of those things that it's a bit
    difficult to convey via the net. \r\n\r\nAlso what are the knockouts? are they
    the flecks of white on the first page? They look like little icons, a house for
    example, am I mistaken? \r\n\r\nI love that script on the 'House of modern', in
    the last weeks, I've been trying to produce a script-type logo with a brush, gee
    it's difficult, I have much more respect for those who can so wield,\r\nthanks
    again\r\n\r\nNick"
  created: '2007-01-12 05:09:12'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I didn't do the typography, only the project management and editing for this
    job.  It's been a few years, but if memory serves, it was Avant Garde Bold for
    the titles and Goudy Old Style for the body: this looks like a case for the TypeID
    police.  ;-)\r\n\r\nThe varnish thing is very subtle -- if you look on the second
    one, below the author line, and contrast that to the sky in the photo is probably
    the best place.  Without the varnish, the sky would have disappeared into the
    paper.  And the photo can't begin to reproduce the texture shift either -- it's
    an uncoated paper and a matte varnish.\r\n\r\nYes, those are small icons as knockouts:
    nice subtle way of connecting the feature article to the cover and very sympathetic
    with the entire exhibit.  "
  created: '2007-01-12 15:22:27'
date: '2007-01-03 05:02:01'
node_type: forum
title: One colour sepia book examples?

---
