---
author:
  name: steifar
  picture: 112105
body: "Has anybody here attended, or has knowledge of, the MA courses at University
  of Reading? Especially Theory & History and Information Design.\r\n\r\n- Are these
  quality courses? \r\n- Any particular positives or negatives? \r\n- What kind of
  influence is present in the teachings (classic, modern, post-modern and such)? \r\n\r\nI
  hope someone can help!"
comments:
- author:
    name: seventy7
    picture: 111185
  body: "I've been considering the same course. Some of your questions may be answered
    here: <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/12390\">Forum</a>\r\n\r\nor here: <a
    href=\"http://typophile.com/node/28588\">Forum</a>"
  created: '2007-01-03 19:42:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "There are two parts to the puzzle, the course and the student. Telling us
    a bit about yourself might help determine if you and the courses would be a good
    match.  \r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: steifar
      picture: 112105
    body: "Alright Sii. I am graduating with a Bachelor of Arts degree this spring.
      I have been attending a school which is kind of free thinking, conceptual and
      somewhat academic. This school doesn't quite stress practical aspects of design
      - though, of course, we do learn it to a certain extent.\r\n\r\nThis was a good
      experience but I have always been mostly influenced by the modernistic view
      of design. Outside of school I have studied typography and information design
      immensely.\r\n\r\nSo, basically, what I am looking for is to learn more about
      good way to present information."
    created: '2007-01-03 20:05:04'
  created: '2007-01-03 19:53:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I graduated in 95 and at that time the undergrad theory & history of information
    design stuff was being taught by Prof. Twyman - he'd been teaching the subject
    for many years and the materials and examples were excellent. \r\n\r\nNot sure
    who teaches this now, Paul Stiff? But based on my dated experience I think you'd
    fit. \r\n\r\nOnly issue may be that if you've been independently studying 'immensely'
    how much would you get out of it? For me ten lectures on the '<A HREF=\"http://www.cea.mdx.ac.uk/cea/CEA_shared/Staff_Stephen/lecture_visuals/GraphicSpace1/TextTwyman_120.html\">schema</A>'
    was great, for you it might be dull. It was the case when I was there, not sure
    if it is now, that the postgrad courses were essentially the same as the undergrad
    components so perhaps were not best suited to design graduates."
  children:
  - author:
      name: steifar
      picture: 112105
    body: "Thanks for the informative answer.\r\n\r\nAccording to the schools website
      Paul Stiff is still there but Paul Luna is the programme director of Theory
      & History."
    created: '2007-01-03 21:48:31'
  created: '2007-01-03 20:50:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "No problem. Paul joined the department after Michael, so I'd suggest trying
    to track down current students or more recent graduates. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2007-01-03 22:23:37'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "I attended Reading when completing a 4-year BA in Typography and Graphic
    communication, so I can't comment directly about the MA courses. What I would
    say \u2013 having been fortunate to have studied under Michael Twyman, Paul Luna,
    Paul Stiff and Gerry Leonidas (and a wealth of other expert staff and visiting
    lecturers) \u2013 is that everyone there was very generous with their time and
    knowledge, and all students got a lot of contact with staff members both in small
    groups and one-to-one."
  created: '2007-01-04 09:10:30'
- author:
    name: steifar
    picture: 112105
  body: Great to hear! I'm getting more interrested in Reading every day.
  created: '2007-01-04 09:43:44'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I like what I've seen of the programmes so far. I've visited the department
    twice, and know several graduates from the MA Type Design course. Baring any sort
    of funding crisis, or total meltdown of the US dollar, I'll be attending the type
    design programme beginning in the fall. \r\n\r\nI can't say I know anything about
    the Info Design programme, but the Theory & History programme sounds like a thrilling
    opportunity. I don't think that there is anything comparable in terms of design
    research to be done anywhere else, at the moment."
  created: '2007-01-04 10:38:57'
- author:
    name: gerry_leonidas
    picture: 128150
  body: "The Theory & History and the Information Design programmes are quite different
    in approach . The MA InfoD is structured around the practical work the students
    do: a series of projects and assignments which culminate in a show of work in
    early summer; they later submit a dissertation of around 12,000 words. The MA
    T&H shares some sessions with the MA InfoD and the MA Printing & Book Design History,
    and does not engage explicitly with any practical assignments, but instead increases
    the focus on Research Methods and culminates in a substantial dissertation of
    around 20,000. \r\n\r\nIn day-to-day terms, the nature of the practice-oriented
    MAs is fairly directed, stemming from the responses to practical assignments,
    whereas the MA T&H is much more flexible in its direction: students can have have
    a greater contribution to the direction of their studies, depending on their particular
    interests. So, for example, one student may opt for an approach that will lead
    them to engage with the methodology of subject experimentation and results analysis,
    while another may direct their focus on, say, the practicalities of printing processes,
    and engage with different devices for rendering. \r\n\r\nNow, with regard to your
    questions: \r\n<cite> \r\n- Are these quality courses?\r\n- Any particular positives
    or negatives?\r\n- What kind of influence is present in the teachings\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nDefining
    \"quality in HE\" is a pretty wide topic worthy of several threads in itself,
    but here's an off-the-cuff shortlist of criteria for you to think about:  \r\n<ul>\r\n<li>engagement
    with the discourse in the field of study</li>\r\n<li>resources and original material
    available to work with</li>  \r\n<li>opportunity for contact with a range of staff
    members and visitors</li>\r\n<li>support in the development of a range of skills</li>\r\n<li>challenge
    and relevance represented by the assignments</li>\r\n<li>quality of final student
    work</li>\r\n<li>graduate destinations immediately following a programme</li>\r\n<li>graduate
    careers in the mid- / long-term</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, the work produced
    especially by the MA InfoD students is not easy to show and explain online. More
    importantly, it is difficult to reflect the development process in the final deliverables
    without recourse to a workfile, so it is not at the moment possible to just point
    you to a link and say \"here's sample work from the MA InfoD\". \r\n\r\nHowever,
    if you're seriously interested you should plan to visit the Department on its
    next Postgraduate Open Day, on Thursday 8 March. Contact Carolyn Davidson at c.d.davidson
    at reading.ac.uk for more information.\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-05 13:37:43'
- author:
    name: steifar
    picture: 112105
  body: Thank you so much for this outstanding answer!
  created: '2007-01-07 12:23:44'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I attended Reading in 1999 and found it to be one of the most fulfilling
    years of my entire life. The education I received there is one year made me envious
    of the undergrads who were there four years. \r\n\r\nI did the MA in History and
    Theory, focussing on history of type design mostly. \r\n\r\nThe only negatives
    for me were the short days during the winter months and my choice to live in the
    halls. \r\n\r\nThe lecturers interests are far reaching and you won't find yourself
    stuck in one era unless you choose that era for yourself."
  created: '2007-01-07 16:59:02'
- author:
    name: seventy7
    picture: 111185
  body: "As I mentioned above, I too am considering the MA InfoD and have also considered
    the MA H&T course. I have a BFA from Virginia Commonwealth University in Communication
    Design and two years experience in both publication design and infographics at
    a newspaper and magazine.\r\n\r\nI do have the desire to attend graduate school
    -- to immerse myself in typography and design at a deeper level than offered at
    the undergraduate level. I love design and especially type, which is why I am
    drawn to Reading of course.\r\n\r\nHowever, I have been told by a dozen or so
    people that unless I want to teach, I do not need to go to graduate school. I
    would love to teach typgraphy and design to college students, but I am still deciding
    on this career path.\r\n\r\n<strong>I have two questions:</strong>\r\n<li>Do you
    agree that designers and/or typographers with a BFA from a good design program
    do not need a graduate-level education unless they want to teach?</li>\r\n<dl><li>What
    career paths do graduates of the MA InfoD program take?</li></dl>\r\n\r\n\r\nAt
    this point, I am really trying to make a practical decision. I am recently married
    to a supportive woman who craves as well, to live, work and study abroad. But
    let's be honest, this isn't the best time for an American to try to finance a
    UK-based education.\r\n\r\nGerry, your above response has me even more excited
    about the program. I appreciate the passion and involvement of the faculty. Perhaps
    you could answer some of my questions. I will certainly email Carolyn Davidson
    with further inquiries.\r\n\r\nThank you.\r\n\r\n-Roy Wilhelm"
  created: '2007-01-07 21:08:16'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Dear Roy,\r\n\r\nI cannot answer you question as well as some others might
    be able to, but I have travelled abroad for post-undergraduate study once before.
    In 2003, two years after I finished my BFA in the US, I moved to Germany to study
    design further. In retrospect, this may not have been the best idea, school-wise,
    but it certainly helped my career path, and it made me happy. I'm still here,
    too.\r\n\r\nAnyway, to try to answer your first question on a very basic level:
    no one has to go to graduate school. While some companies may tend to favor job
    candidates with MA degrees, as designers, we more often place weight on personal
    knowledge, experience, portfolios, etc. Some people I know are even adverse to
    candidates with advanced degrees, for fear that they would command higher salaries.\r\n\r\nWhile
    the knowledge you might acquire at any graduate school would probably be acquirable
    by yourself elsewhere (through personal study, dedication, etc.), further study
    is a luxurious opportunity. Away from the daily grind of a job, you have the opportunity
    to focus your time on the subject at hand. Furthermore, you will be surrounded
    by like-minded people, both students and faculty, which will probably cause you
    to worker harder and discover more more quickly than you might otherwise.\r\n\r\nAs
    for your last point, that this isn\u2019t the best time for an American to try
    to finance a UK-based education, you certainly bring up a good topic. However,
    on the flip side, one cannot predict the short term performance of global currencies.
    Who knows, it might never be a good time ever again to study in the UK; the dollar
    could deflate even further. In the year before I left the US for Germany, I watched
    the dollar loose 20% of its value against the Euro. This meant that the money
    I had been saving up for my education had lost 20% of its value, too. Since 2003,
    the dollar has dropped even further against the Euro, but there isn't anything
    that I can do about that. Many of the top design-related programs in the US at
    private universities are still more expensive than the costs related with moving
    to the UK for a year. And, with apologies to MasterCard, there are some opportunities
    that really are priceless. These decisions are best left up to the buyer; I can
    only offer you my own opinion!"
  created: '2007-01-08 06:04:37'
- author:
    name: gerry_leonidas
    picture: 128150
  body: "<cite> Contact Carolyn Davidson at c.d.davidson at reading.ac.uk for more
    information</cite>\r\noops -- I got the email wrong: it is c.davidson at...\r\n\r\nNow
    on to Roy's questions:\r\n<cite>Do you agree that designers and/or typographers
    with a BFA from a good design program do not need a graduate-level education unless
    they want to teach?</cite>\r\nFirstly, the teaching bit. Indeed it is increasingly
    a prerequisite to have an MA or MFA to teach, and I will not be surprised if in
    twenty years' time this requirement has crept up to degrees that are explicitly
    research-based. The issue is closely linked with what each region assumes each
    level of higher education represents, both in terms of provision by the institution
    and teaching staff, and in terms of the students' experience and outcomes. The
    range is wider that you would think considering the [im]maturity of the sector,
    but this I think is endemic in the humanities and applied arts. \r\nIn my experience
    many designers get fed up at some point  with the daily grind of a client-based
    career, and welcome the diversion that teaching may offer, taking advantage of
    the fact that design is very well suited to part-time or occasional teaching engagements.
    Your problem would be that it is more likely that you would feel the need for
    a career change sometime in your mid- or late thirties, when it is more difficult
    to take a year out to obtain the required qualification (I know, because we have
    students in this situation <em>every year</em>). So, you could say that, at minimum,
    getting another qualification may come in handy in the future in ways that you
    cannot predict now. \r\nThere is another angle to this, however, unrelated to
    the formal qualifications for teaching. A good postgraduate programme will give
    you skills in self-directed learning and research, writing, preparing and  presenting
    your work, and an altogether deeper understanding of your discipline that BAs
    and BFAs cannot accommodate. This is more so as the population of students in
    \ undergraduate   programmes increases. There seems to be a gradual shift towards
    a model of BA/BFA for general grounding and professional competence, followed
    by an MA/MFA that can target learning better, and offers also a better framework
    for funding support of applicants. So, my second point is that postgraduate programmes
    are becoming the  accepted culmination of one's studies (outside the domain of
    pure research); I would argue that this is the case for some time now in many
    other fields, but some areas of the humanities and the applied arts in general
    lag behind, largely due to the degree to which the respective knowledge fields
    have been defined (or, have not, as the case may be). \r\nFinally, with regard
    to the impact on careers: in the context of typographic design (i.e. a relatively
    narrow field with a good network for recognising reputation and professional contribution)
    my experience is that a good MA degree can be transformative for a person's prospects
    and career. Whichever way you look at it, there is absolutely no way you could
    ever put yourself through the intensive intellectual environment and sheer workload
    that a proper MA programme represents.\r\nAll this, remember, is just my opinion,
    therefore worthless as guidance for others; what seems reasonable to me may mean
    nothing to the next person. But because you are considering something that has
    the potential to direct your life in ways you cannot anticipate (see Dan's comments,
    above) you must research all your options carefully, and then try to get some
    gut reaction to the environment and the people you may place yourself amongst.
    \r\n\r\nand: \r\n<cite>What career paths do graduates of the MA InfoD program
    take?</cite>\r\nA couple or three InfoD graduates work as teachers, but most are
    employed by larger companies that have an information design perspective on their
    work. A lot depends on where you intend to live after the programme: the UK, Australia,
    Canada, and to a lesser degree the US do have a functioning market for information
    design. In other countries the picture is patchier, and information design projects
    are farmed out to graphic design companies. The big opportunity (and, still, the
    big unknown) is interface design: a recognised <em>need</em> for expertise, but
    which so far is mostly covered by experiential practitioners. (See all the \"big
    names\" in web design rediscovering principles of typographic design applying
    to design for the web that typographic designers have \"owned\" all along, but
    were poor at adapting in language and process for the new media.) So, I think
    that InfoD grads will slowly migrate from the more conventionally typographic
    design to occupy a position between the coders and the editors -- if not out of
    preference for the material, out of necessity for the volume of work available.
    \r\n"
  created: '2007-01-09 14:55:31'
- author:
    name: seventy7
    picture: 111185
  body: "Wow. Thanks so much for the very thoughtful responses. I think I will seek
    the answers to a few more questions I have. I'm really leaning towards applying
    to Reading. The Reading Web site isn't clear about the deadline for international
    students. I'd like to know if I still have time to apply for this fall.\r\n\r\nBoth
    of you were very helpful. Thanks again."
  created: '2007-01-10 04:34:58'
- author:
    name: gerry_leonidas
    picture: 128150
  body: "<cite> The Reading Web site isn\u2019t clear about the deadline for international
    students. I\u2019d like to know if I still have time to apply for this fall.</cite>\r\n\r\nWe
    are a small department, and can operate more flexibly than the general guidelines
    may suggest. There is still time. \r\n\r\nNote though that it is not the application
    process itself that takes long, but the \"package\" of obtaining a student visa
    if you need one, any financial arrangements, accommodation, and so on. Be mindful
    of a sort of critical path for your application: you need the references to apply
    (which take some time to obtain), you will not be able to apply for a visa before
    you have hardcopy confirmation of your acceptance to the university; and so on.\r\n\r\nAnd
    if (like petitepetite), you are not from an English-speaking country, or have
    studied for your first degree in an English-language institution, you will need
    a score of 7 in the IELTS language test before your acceptance is unconditional.\r\n\r\nGood
    luck!"
  created: '2007-01-10 14:32:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am an old man who is envious of the young students who attend Reading.
    If it were possible, I would apply myself, not for the career path but just for
    the knowledge and interaction with collegues. If I were you, I would go. There
    will be no better time and there may be a worse time (like when you are in your
    60s like me:-)\r\nThere is no \"requirement\" for a Masters degree true, but that
    is not why you go to such a wonderful university. You go for the growth it will
    bring you and the passion for your chosen field. I am sure that your portfolio
    will be greatly enhanced for your journey there though. In this field, portfolio
    is a \"requirement\".\r\n\r\nWishing I were there,\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-10 15:28:25'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "I quit/retired from Microsoft to go to Reading!!!! \r\n\r\nSo there ! A well
    paid job and quit! Because it was just too good to pass up.\r\n\r\nGood fun year,
    lived in the dorm!!!! with all the 'foreigners' in Bulmershe. Went to some Greek
    parties in Reading Town Centre and ended up a few times with the young ones in
    Purple Turtle.. Played ice hockey in Basingstoke and Baseball in Richmond London.
    Drove a Rover Metro!!! Drove and acted like a student. \r\n\r\nMet the wonderful
    Tiffany and many others. \r\n\r\nIt will change you forever. Most certainly. "
  created: '2007-01-10 16:03:36'
- author:
    name: ultrasparky
    picture: 109750
  body: "If you're an American applying to Reading, it would be good to get going
    on the official paperwork, especially if you're considering taking out any loans
    to finance your degree. Reading is one of the schools you can specify when you
    fill out your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (http://www.fafsa.ed.gov/),
    but you will probably need to keep after the university to make sure they know
    what to do with any info that comes from the U.S. Everyone's extremely friendly
    and helpful, but they don't deal with American loans often enough to realize when
    they're supposed to take the ball and run with it. Once you're approved for any
    Stafford loans, or if you get any private loans, you may need to shop around a
    little to find a lender who will let you take out a loan for an overseas school.\r\n\r\nIt's
    actually not a hard process at all, just one that you need to nudge along now
    and then. When you apply for a student visa, though, you need to verify that you
    can cover a year's fees and expenses, so you need to have a statement of your
    savings or a loan guarantee to go along with your visa application.\r\n\r\nIt's
    really worth it. It's pretty fantastic over here. There are so many good people
    and good resources at our disposal here that sometimes the biggest challenge seems
    to be deciding what to focus on."
  created: '2007-01-10 16:32:11'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: In regards to loans, I will second Dan's emphasis on starting now. Also, I
    found a TERI private loan that working through Reading without any hitches.
  created: '2007-01-10 18:12:35'
- author:
    name: seventy7
    picture: 111185
  body: "Great responses. I value advice from my fellow typophiles and so I'm going
    to go for it. \r\n\r\nStay tuned as I'll post the outcome of my application in
    the future."
  created: '2007-01-10 21:04:53'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>There will be no better time and there may be a worse time</em>\r\n\r\nThere's
    definitely going to be a bad (not to confuse with \"bed\") time at Reading: the
    time before the deadlines [wink].\r\n\r\nThe bottom line is, if the student works
    hard and is passionate about his project(s), every effort will be worth it. No
    question about it! But to fully enjoy Reading, you'll have to look for the bigger
    picture. Reading is not just about studying and learning how to design a typeface.
    There's a lot more beyond that. Reading might hold one of the best collections
    of type related documents, but its biggest asset is its staff; these people are
    not only highly knowledgeable but, above all, are great human beings. I had one
    of the best times of my life when studying at Reading."
  created: '2007-01-11 12:28:26'
- author:
    name: Jasso
    picture: 110901
  body: "As the only one doing the History & Theory program this year, I guess I should
    add my two cents to the discussion.\r\n\r\nFor me the main reason for coming to
    Reading was my personal passion for design and research. I already had a BA on
    media / graphic design, and I also had a promising career ahead of me. (Still
    do...probably... :D)\r\n\r\nSo, I didn't want to study more about actually doing
    design. You can always hone your skills at work or at home. But you can't really
    learn the academic side by yourself. Well, you might do it, but it would be difficult.\r\n\r\nAnd
    don't get me wrong, I do understand and respect people who want to spend their
    postgrad studies on actual design. Especially if they are specialising on some
    rare area like type or information design. But that just isn't my cup of tea at
    the moment.\r\n\r\nAfter researching the matter, I realised that Reading was just
    about the only place (at least in Europe) that offered what I wanted: a purely
    academic program in the field of typography & design. So, I quit my job at a newspaper
    and came here. Luckily I managed to get a grant to cover my tuition fees.\r\n\r\nOther
    reasons for coming were that I wanted to have some fun again (instead of just
    working), and that I really want to continue to Ph.D. some day. I'm seriously
    considering ending up more as a teacher than a designer... or then splitting my
    time between the two.\r\n\r\nIn practice, I share the courses with the other programs.
    I attend to all the possible history and information design lectures and seminars.
    I also attend type design lectures when I can. (That's something that I'd like
    to do more, but it's not always possible because of overlapping schedules.) I
    don't take part in any of the projects the others are doing. Instead I'm doing
    more written works.\r\n\r\nI had a little slow start and was a bit confused until
    I realised just how independent my program really was. I guess I was waiting for
    a more structured program. And then there was the problem of choice, as ultrasparky
    said. So many interesting subjects to choose from! After some panicking I decided
    to concentrate on newspapers, as that's my home field, but also because it's such
    an unsexy area that its not really that much researched yet.\r\n\r\nNow, I'm just
    having a blast. I just regret that slow start. It made my essays pile up and overlap,
    and I hate turning in the mediocre papers. Although, I'm not too worried about
    my grades. The actual learning and having fun is much more important. And the
    brilliant people you get to meet!\r\n\r\nIn every department you will get some
    unsatisfied students. Reading has its pros and cons just like all the other places.
    And there will always be a limit on how much the teachers can give you or how
    many areas they can cover. In the end, your happiness and learning is much more
    up to how you use the resources the department gives you.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nIf you
    want to ask more specifics about the Theory & History program, just send me an
    email."
  created: '2007-01-15 21:24:04'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I and my Adobe colleagues have long been *very* impressed with the MA Typeface
    Design program at Reading, but that's a different program.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-01-16 04:49:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'd like to strike a cautionary note.\r\nNot that I don't have the highest
    opinion of Reading, having once even applied for a job there, but it can't be
    all things to all people.\r\n\r\nI'm also not against the professionalization
    of graphic design, being an RGD member.\r\n\r\nHowever, the academicization of
    art and design within the education system is, in my view, problematic. These
    are practice-based disciplines, after all.\r\n\r\nWhen I was at art school, graduating
    in 1974, the qualification was a Dip.AD (Diploma in Art and Design). Now it's
    a BA. More cred there, apparently, without the taint of marginalization. So this
    degree granting status, and the access to government and foundation money it provides,
    is something that many colleges go after. Gotta have their own postgraduate course.
    Gotta get some research fellows, with their grant money. To prosper, they're compelled
    to keep up with the academic credentials game. There's a term denoting a principle
    that keeps the education machine ticking, \u201Cmeasurable outcome\". But art
    and design education doesn't have to be quite so subservient to the performance
    principle, to use Freud's distinction, play is a good idea too.\r\n\r\nThe inflation
    of required qualifications makes it harder for designers without MAs to move to
    teaching after a professional career, which is a loss to everyone and a widening
    of the divide between the commercial world and the academic world. Commercial
    designers are not all self-taught \"experiental practitioners\", to use Gerry's
    term, many are older designers who would make valuable educators. They got their
    qualification years ago, but with degree inflation, they are less favoured by
    the system than career academics.\r\n\r\nSo it's true, as Gerry says, that to
    maximize your options for later on, you should get a higher degree now. But does
    careerism belong in Academia? Or anywhere, for that matter.\r\n\r\nPlanning one's
    career while at college may not be the best idea. If there's one thing that's
    constant in the graphic arts industry these past 150 years, it's changing technologies
    creating massive roadkill, and who can predict what will come along next? An open-ended
    education will provide a more flexible means of having a long-term career to cope
    with these changes, than tailoring one's education to a specific job or job sector.
    Careers have a habit of careering all over the place.\r\n\r\nThere are good reasons
    for a conservative, academically-driven education, if you're conservative, or
    if you want to know the enemy (which was Neville Brody's reason for attending
    the London College of Printing). But not every rebel has such resolve.\r\n\r\nPetitepetite,
    what alternatives have you considered for pursuing your passion for the theory
    and practice of typography and information design? It may well be that Reading
    is your best bet. But I would be interested to know what the options are."
  children:
  - author:
      name: steifar
      picture: 112105
    body: "Nick, I'm sorry for the late response. \r\n\r\nIn Europe, I had also been
      considering KABK in The Hague and HFG of Main. In the end though, I decided
      not to apply for those. In USA I am applying for RISD,  Cranbrook and Pratt
      (for the location).\r\n\r\nI still have left to decide what would be the right
      choice - but to me RISD and Reading seem to be the most interesting ones. RISD
      would be like a continuation to my present school (although at a higher level)
      while Reading seems to be a whole different chapter. "
    created: '2007-01-17 17:18:20'
  created: '2007-01-16 06:28:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Dan Reynolds is a RISD grad. Maybe he can give you some info.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-17 18:52:29'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I loved RISD, but I was just there as an undergrad. I can try to answer specific
    questions if you e-mail me off-line! But I graduated six years ago, though, so
    it has been a while.\r\n\r\nYou mentioned, in Europe, the HFG of Main, by which
    I assume you mean the Hochschule f\xFCr Gestaltung Offenbach am Main (http://www.hfg-offenbach.de,
    [[HfG Offenbach]]). I studied at this fine institution for two years, from 2003
    to 2005. It was great for my career path\u2014and my personal life, too\u2014but
    I found the school itself to be dreadful, especially as far as typography and
    graphic design were concerned.* I can answer questions about Offenbach, too, if
    you'd like. But that would be better offline as well.\r\n\r\n*This brings me to
    another piece of advice that would have helped me when I was in your situation:
    judge a school by the way it is now, not (just) by its reputation. Reputations
    are often based on the past. Schools are institutions, which change over time.
    Your image of a school might reflect a situation that was true 5 or 10 years ago,
    while the reality might be quite different today. Asking questions is good; so
    are personal visits. Try to get as much information as you can before you make
    a commitment."
  children:
  - author:
      name: steifar
      picture: 112105
    body: "I totally agree - I have tried not to let reputation get in the way of
      my judgement. \r\n\r\nI actually visited RISD last november and I liked it quite
      a bit. I also fell in love with the setting (I can see myself studying in Providence).
      Instead of a visit to the University of Reading I came to this forum which has
      made me confident it could be a great choice.\r\n\r\nWhat you mention abou Offenbach
      confirms what I thought.\r\n\r\nIf I will have any questions I will definitely
      send you a message. Thanks for that!"
    created: '2007-01-17 19:34:34'
  created: '2007-01-17 19:09:58'
- author:
    name: ultrasparky
    picture: 109750
  body: I had a pretty disappointing experience studying MS Communications Design
    program at Pratt a few years back. After a year, I had the distinct impression
    that I was paying quite a bit of money without learning very much in exchange.
    It might be a different experience for someone who's had less practical experience
    as a designer than I did, or it might have improved an awful lot in the last few
    years, but I've compared notes with quite a few others who've gone through the
    program and they seem to have felt the same way. New York is a great location,
    certainly, but aside from the MFA Design program at SVA its master's-level design
    offerings seem pretty weak.
  created: '2007-01-17 21:01:35'
date: '2007-01-03 19:21:52'
title: University of Reading... a little question

---
