---
author:
  name: wordsfailme
body: "My first post \u2013 slightly nervous, hope it's not a stupid question.\r\n\r\nShould
  an en dash go at the end or the beginning of a line of text (I'm setting a heading
  so it's especially important).\r\n\r\nOr is it a matter of personal taste?\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Does it replace the word \u201Cto\u201D or is it marking a pause?\r\n\r\nIf
    it\u2019s \u201C4 \u2013 6\u201D I\u2019d put the whole thing one the same line.\r\n\r\nIf
    it\u2019s a pause, it doesn\u2019t matter that much. I\u2019d probably put it
    on the next line, especially if it would \u201Cdrop down\u201D (like the \u201Ca\u201D
    in your post) otherwise. The main thing is that the dash conveys the pause, which
    it will do in both cases, I think.\r\n\r\nI understand you asking this, since
    I don\u2019t think the dash looks particularly good either way."
  children:
  - author:
      name: wordsfailme
    body: "It's marking a pause. I always think it looks better on the next line but
      having never formally studied typography (sorry, I know that's dreadful) I'm
      often not sure \u2013\_or confident \u2013\_what the \"correct\" way to do things
      is."
    created: '2007-01-05 11:15:55'
  created: '2007-01-05 11:05:55'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "I take it back. Here\u2019s what I would do. Sometimes the gap the dash creates
    is too big. Do what looks best to you.\r\n\r\nHelsinki \u2013\r\nLondon\r\n\r\nRecovery
    takes at least \r\n4 \u2013 6 weeks\r\n\r\nI\u2019m often not sure \u2013 \r\nor
    confident\r\n\r\nI\u2019m often not sure \r\n\u2013 or confident\r\n(Here the
    gap doesn\u2019t matter as much it would in the first example.)\r\n\r\nMan, it\u2019s
    been a while\u2026"
  created: '2007-01-05 11:27:44'
- author:
    name: wordsfailme
  body: "Okay \u2013\_here it is. A very exciting topic, as you will see.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Page-8_5855.jpg]"
  created: '2007-01-05 11:37:02'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "I have always gone by the notion that written words are a way of capturing
    speech and making it live again in the brain of the reader. If the dash is supposed
    to convey a sense of pause, then it seems to me to be more effective at the end
    of the first line. This way the reader encounters the pause indicator, then takes
    a brief moment to move back over to the next line, and the elapsed time is slightly
    longer. Encountering it at the beginning of the next line comes as more of a surprise.
    Therefore, in my style book the dash is always best located at the end of the
    first line, but if spacing conditions make that ungraceful or impratical, then
    it goes at the beginning of the next line. The tiniest of subtleties, this, but
    fun to think about!\r\n\r\nIn your example, it's too bad that \"performance\"
    is such a long word, since it will make the \"meeting\" line even shorter when
    it loses the dash. Could you use a colon after \"performance\" instead of a dash?"
  created: '2007-01-05 11:45:44'
- author:
    name: wordsfailme
  body: "Interesting.\r\n\r\nI like the colon idea, but it it still makes the \"meeting\"
    line short. \r\n\r\nA tricky one, but I'm glad it wasn't a totally stupid question.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-05 11:56:15'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "What about changing the copy -- can you make that suggestion?\r\n\r\nCLADDING\r\nPERFORMANCE:\r\nMEETING
    THE\r\nDEMANDS OF\r\nSUSTAINABILITY\r\n\r\nCLADDING\r\nPERFORMANCE:\r\nCOMPLYING
    WITH\r\nSUSTAINABILITY\r\nDEMANDS\r\n\r\nHeads are so !@#$%^& tricky!\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-05 12:33:19'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Since Meeting Sustainability Demands is almost a subtitle to Cladding Performance,
    I would be inclined to put the en dash at the end of the line, you could also
    use a lighter weight or an italic.\r\nFor example\r\n\r\nCladding\r\nPerformance\r\n<em>Meeting\r\nSustainability\r\nDemands</em>\r\n\r\nor\r\n\r\n<strong>Cladding\r\nPerformance</strong>\r\nMeeting\r\nSustainability\r\nDemands\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-05 12:50:51'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Interesting topic once again...\r\n\r\nAmerican Typesetting.\r\nIn typesetting
    there is never a spaceband before or after a N-dash, M-dash or hyphen.\r\nAn N-dash
    is used for \"through\" or as one above said \"to.\" Such as in dates, numbers.
    The Chicago Manual had one exception to this, and to this day, I still don't know
    why. It's \"award\u2013winning.\" For some reason, that gets an N-dash.\r\n\r\nWhen
    you are pausing, it is a 1 M-dash. It was not widely used among the great writers
    of the 20th century. It was used by advertising copywriters abundently. Many New
    York City Art Directors in the late 1980s-early 1990s would tell the typeshops
    that if there must be a break near the M-dash, please leave it on the top line.
    \r\n\r\nPlease note: I did say this was American typesetting. Over the years,
    I've realized many differences in how the English typeset. Example: When in America
    you have a quote and end it, the period is tucked inside of the quote, \"Like
    this.\" However, in English-speaking Canada and the UK it is outside the quote,
    \"Like this\". \r\n\r\nGo figure!\r\n\r\nAnd in today's \"anyone can set type\"
    is anyone except those of us in the know, paying any attention? I don't think
    so. Not with the <em>New York Times</em> prints full page ads with inch marks
    and not quote marks!\r\n\r\nThank you for letting me have my 2 cents this morning."
  created: '2007-01-05 13:11:57'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "I love these types of topics. Where the answers spur forth more information
    than was requested and rarely is any of it useless filler.\r\n\r\nAs a designer,
    I've realized that commanding the written English language has become very important
    to communicating efficiently. I've never been very proficient at writing. So,
    every time I come across topics about grammar and punctuation, I make sure to
    pay especial attention to the details listed. I've learned a lot about the less
    obvious ornamental punctuation that I had seldom used before. And now try to make
    a conscious effort to inject it into my writing in hopes of making things even
    more clear.\r\n\r\nSo, I don't actually have anything important to add, I wanted
    to thank  you guys for keeping me in the know. Continue making me wiser!"
  created: '2007-01-05 14:46:14'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I second the \"make it a colon instead\" suggestion. Or using two fonts,
    or ulc for \"meeting sustainability demands\". I'm not sure a dash (en or em)
    is appropriate here, and a dash starting a line looks weird to me.\r\n\r\nI realize
    the Brits use en dashes for pauses\u2014with spaces around\u2014but it still looks
    funny to my American eyes.\r\n\r\nFurther 2 cents: can you come up with more elegant
    word than sustainability? That's a LOT of syllables. Doesn't exactly trip off
    the tongue."
  created: '2007-01-05 14:50:34'
- author:
    name: wordsfailme
  body: "Sadly as a designer it's \"not my place\" to offer forth some of the solutions
    generously given here.\r\n\r\nHad I a copy editor sitting next to me, whole days
    to craft the spread to look absolutely beautiful, and a little more autonomy,
    I would be a happy girl.\r\n\r\nThe reality is that I have six other jobs demanding
    my time, have inherited the style sheets from a designer who is no longer here,
    and I wasn't part of the initial design process anyway.\r\n\r\nHo hum.\r\n\r\nBut
    yes, I'm enjoying the discussion, and feel like I'm learning lots. Thank you.\r\n\r\nOh,
    and by the way, I think we sometimes put the full stop outside the quotation marks,
    but only when the quotation makes up the whole sentence. i.e \"To be, or not to
    be: that is the question.\" If the quotation is part of a longer sentnce then
    we do put the full stop last."
  created: '2007-01-05 15:09:11'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> However, in English-speaking Canada and the UK it is outside the quote,
    \u201CLike this\u201D.\r\n\r\nNope. Most Canadian use today will have the punctuation
    within the quotes.\r\n\r\nAnd I also dispute the assumption that there are never
    spaces around an en-dash. It is quite common to use a spaced en dash in replace
    of an em-dash, which often makes a visually distracting hole in the color of a
    page. The spaced en is less distracting, I feel.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-05 15:40:37'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "<cite>And I also dispute the assumption that there are never spaces around
    an en-dash. It is quite common to use a spaced en dash in replace of an em-dash,
    which often makes a visually distracting hole in the color of a page. The spaced
    en is less distracting, I feel.</cite>\r\n\r\nMy sentiments exactly. I think this
    is the european way.\r\n\r\nI also think it would be best to set the stuff after
    the dash in different style or size. Could you at least just get rid of the dash?"
  created: '2007-01-05 17:11:34'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I like a thin-spaced em, but not a spaced en -- to my eye, it looks lazy,
    but then, I'm an old f*rt.\r\n\r\nIn this case, a colon works just fine...."
  created: '2007-01-06 04:03:30'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I once had to design a newspaper page with 4 different story headlines that
    all had colons and subheads. Awful. Should have killed the editor.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I resorted to all of these options:\r\n\r\n<ul>Headline: Subhead</ul>\r\n\r\n<ul><strong>Headline</strong>\r\nSUBHEAD</ul>\r\n\r\n<ul>HEADLINE
    <cite>Subhead</cite></ul>\r\n\r\n<ul>Headline \u2013\r\n<cite>Subhead</cite></ul>\r\n\r\nI
    think a dash to represent a pause makes much more sense at the end of the first
    section than at the beginning of the second. Like was said before, it more accurately
    depicts human speech and phrasing."
  created: '2007-01-06 11:22:15'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Given that you are stuck with the basic forms you posted I would say the
    en dash should go after performance. For two reasons, first aesthetic, since you
    are going to have a jagged right rag, pursuing a smooth left rag is more attractive;
    and second, I read it that there are various sub-sectors in which Cladding Performance
    has to meet demands and the en signals the subordination of the following copy.\r\n\r\nCLADDING\r\nPERFORMANCE
    \u2013\r\nMEETING\r\nSUSTAINABILITY\r\nDEMANDS\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-06 11:35:32'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "<em>Oh, and by the way, I think we sometimes put the full stop outside the
    quotation marks, but only when the quotation makes up the whole sentence. i.e
    \u201CTo be, or not to be: that is the question.\u201D If the quotation is part
    of a longer sentnce then we do put the full stop last.</em>\r\n\r\nWordsfailme
    - if you had a copyeditor next to right now - they'd take the colon out of the
    \"To be or not be, that is the question.\"  Colons are are used to separate the
    sentence from the list. A more appropriate punctuation for that may be the semi-colon
    \"To be or not to be; that is the question.\" \u2014also the comma after the first
    to be is unnecessary. If you were writing this for cue cards, you might consider
    writing it \"To be, (to show actor to pause) or not\u2014(to show actor longer
    exaggerated pause) that is the question.\r\n\r\nI did remember on exception to
    a space for the 1-M dash. That would be in a quote. If you were \"giving credit
    to someone for saying this.\" \u2014Anon there were always be a space between
    the end quote and the m-dash.\r\n\r\nAnd I'm with you. I miss the old days when
    we had professionals doing the work. Your type was delivered at 9am to your drawing
    board...and the new day over the rubber cement odors began.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nDon
    McCahill\r\nCould you please let Alex Trebek know they changed this. One thing
    I've never cared for on Jeopardy was the fact that the punction remained outside
    the quote\u2014and their response over the years was \"it's the Canadian way.\"'\r\n\r\nCurious
    - when did it change? I've been out of a type shop since 1991, and they were still
    following the Queen's English when I left.\r\n\r\n****\r\n\r\nTruthfully, I prefer
    some \"air\" around the m-dash and n-dash -- but as a typesetter, I had to go
    by the book. It just didn't exist and wasn't to be set.\r\n\r\nAn interesting
    type misadventure I once had was with St. Martin Books. I was re-setting the interior
    of one of their books and M-dashes were called for. The font they were setting
    it in had a very narrow M, therefore the M-dashes appeared to be about the size
    of anothr fonts hyphen or N-dash. To give them the visual effect they needed,
    we went to 3-M dash. Sorry, just had to share."
  created: '2007-01-06 13:05:15'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "The second closest thing to a manuscript of Hamlet that exists quotes \r\n\r\nTo
    be, or not to be, that is the question,\r\n\r\n(the closest thing is regarded
    as the \u201Cbad\u201D quarto)\r\nhttp://www.bl.uk/treasures/shakespeare/basics.html\r\n\r\nand\r\n\r\nhttp://www.bl.uk/treasures/shakespeare/hamlet.html\r\n\r\nHowever,
    many online resources use the colons and a comma, as this is not a book to be
    read silently, it is a speech to be made on stage which does make a difference
    as you note.\r\n\r\nTim\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Bruce
      picture: 112056
    body: One of the most moving performances I have ever experienced was in the late
      1980s, when Shakespearian actor Brian Bedford appeared in a small lecture hall
      in Portland, Maine (US). Perhaps 200 seats, set on a steeply sloped floor, small
      and simple stage, quite an intimate setting. The entire set consisted of one
      stoll, set in the center of the stage. Mr. Bedford came out, sat on the stool,
      and gave two extended groups of soliloquies with a break in between. Sometimes
      he cried out in room-filling dramatic passion, sometimes in barely a whisper,
      but even then audible to all in the room. Completely, utterly magical. It is
      certainly true that Shakespeare was meant to be heard if at all possible, and
      not simply read.
    created: '2007-01-06 15:22:04'
  created: '2007-01-06 14:22:48'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "Firstly, I always space around my en dashes, but never when hyphenating words.
    I also prefer to keep them on the top line, as opposed to starting a line with
    a dash, it bothers me that the first character is not a letter. \r\n\r\n<em>Could
    you please let Alex Trebek know they changed this. One thing I\u2019ve never cared
    for on Jeopardy was the fact that the punction remained outside the quote\u2014and
    their response over the years was \u201Cit\u2019s the Canadian way.\u201D\u2019</em>\r\n\r\nWhen
    I went through school, and granted it was part US and part Canadian education,
    I was taught that punctuation goes on the inside the quotes if it's the proper
    end to the sentence; otherwise it falls on the outside.\r\n\r\nEx. In the case
    of Jeopardy it's probably \"correct\". Where, were we to quote Alex saying, \"It's
    how punctuation is taught in Canada.\"\r\n\r\nMaybe that's a bad example, and
    most likely lacking proper grammar, but I'm no copywriter. \r\n"
  created: '2007-01-06 21:52:47'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Most of the places where I've worked would leave the dash at the end of the
    line, never at the beginning of the next line.
  created: '2007-01-07 01:03:46'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Fortunately this isn't Hollywood Squares, for it seems that my blue-collar
    approach is not popular. In the variety of treatment given to hyphens, endashes
    and emdashes from various faces, eras, locales, and publishers of varying competency,
    my eyes have developed a habit of assuming that any line ending in a dash is supposed
    to be a hyphen. This simplistic approach is not high typography, but the functional
    opposite. From an aesthetic standpoint, I think this also works well as a convention,
    leaving the \"weak\" ending of a line created by the lightness of a dash as a
    marker to quickly jump to the next line and continue, as if there were really
    on line, and self-editing the hiccup as my brain proccesses the text.\r\n\r\nMuch
    more pause is created by putting it on the second line, and there is less ambiguity
    to the untrained (in local customs of the 'setter) eye. Unfortunately, an endash
    at the start of a line is not pretty, and an emdash seems like it would give a
    better rhythm, but  better not pretty than ambiguous and not pretty.\r\n\r\n\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2007-01-08 21:52:34'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "My guess is that you have already made the decision\u2014the 3 am post time
    gives this a sence of urgency, but\r\n\r\nit all depends on what it is that you
    mean to say.\r\n\r\nIf you want to differentiate between the two parts of the
    headline you may use:\r\nshapes, including punctuation, uppercase v lowercase,
    small caps, italic, etc.\r\nattributes, including weight, color, texture\r\ncontexts,
    including scale, position (space)\r\n\r\nWhether you use the dash or not remember,
    to paraphrase Duke Ellington, \"If it looks good, it is good.\""
  created: '2007-01-09 16:19:29'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Great advice, Charles. :^)\r\n\r\nI think the time below the name tells the
    time on your time zone, not the poster\u2019s."
  created: '2007-01-09 16:35:50'
- author:
    name: Philipp Pratap Thapa
    picture: 112143
  body: "<strong>The Left Margin Highlights Paragraph Structure</strong>\r\n\r\nI
    agree with what seems the majority opinion on Wordsfailme's original question:
    If the dash can't be avoided, it should be placed at the end of the upper line.
    \r\n\r\nI do the same in any standard paragraph of Roman text because the left
    margin structures the contents. A gap at the beginning of a line is most often
    created by an indent and thus signals the beginning of a new paragraph; and a
    dash at the beginning of a line is often used to highlight the topics of a list.
    Because of these conventions, the smooth line of the left margin should be broken
    only where this gap coincides with some kind of paragraph break. A dash gap at
    the right margin, on the other hand, doesn't matter that much, because punctuation
    and hyphenation often make even a justified right margin look slightly ragged
    anyway.\r\n\r\n<strong>Arguments against American Convention \u2013 Dashes and
    Spacing</strong>\r\n\r\nAs was already pointed out in another thread (which I'm
    unable to find right now), there is much to commend the German (or more generally
    European) use of the en dash \u2013 including the disuse of the em dash \u2013
    to the typographer: To indicate a break in the flow of thought or speech, use
    an en dash with word spaces before and after; when abbreviating 'from A to B'
    (Hamburg\u2013M\xFCnchen, 12\u201316 hrs), use an en dash with no spaces (or very
    thin spaces to compensate for deficient automatic kerning).\r\n\r\nFrom a graphic
    point of view (turn the page upside down), the American unspaced em dash is a
    long line that <em>connects</em> two objects, i.e. the words on either side of
    it. That is, it produces a large hole in the texture of the page \u2013 while
    failing to divide the sentence. Where this discrepancy between content and design
    becomes most painful is a justified line in which all words are divided by plenty
    of white space, except those at a logical break in the sentence marked by a dash,
    which are tied together in one black cluster. \r\n\r\nTo rephrase and conclude:
    The American convention uses <em>connecting</em> lines (dashes) between both logically
    divided and logically connected words or numbers. The European convention, in
    contrast, uses <em>connecting</em> lines (dahes) where words or numbers are logically
    <em>connected</em>, and <em>dividing</em> white spaces, enlarged and classified
    as such by a freestanding dash, where words and phrases are logically <em>divided</em>.
    And since the two uses are differentiated by the presence or absence of spaces,
    the lanky em dash can be dispensed with.\r\n\r\nI suggest American typographers
    change their habits."
  created: '2007-01-21 14:48:48'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Philipp\r\n\r\nAn American typographer worth their salt - always left a hairline
    crack between a last letter, the M dash, and the first letter...\r\n\r\nAnd one
    American saying we all live by is, \"If it ain't broke, don't fix it.\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-21 15:20:32'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "<cite>always left a hairline crack between a last letter, the M dash, and
    the first letter</cite>\r\n\r\nThe problem with justified text remains. I also
    don\u2019t think <em>connecting</em> is about whether the dash physically touches
    the letter or not but is it closer than regular words."
  created: '2007-01-21 17:16:55'
date: '2007-01-05 10:49:41'
node_type: forum
title: en dash at start or end of line?

---
