---
author:
  name: poliphilus
  picture: 112065
body: "The standard practice  in French and most European typography is to insert
  spaces (or a thin space and then a word space) around punctuation marks, except
  for full stops and commas.\r\n\r\nThus: \r\n\r\n\"\_Est-ce que monsieur veut voir
  M. Duval ? \" reprit le jardinier.\r\n\r\nBy contrast, current practices in contemporary
  English (UK and US) typography do not 'air' punctuation marks. \r\n\r\nIt has long
  been my contention that the European practice should be followed since it makes
  for much finer typography. Then, reading an old Penguin set in 1961, I noticed that
  it does 'air' the punctuation marks. This prompted me to conduct a mini survey amongst
  the books in my  library and I saw that many  older books from highly respectable
  publishers were generally set in this 'airy' manner, both in the UK <!--break-->
  and the US. \r\n\r\nIs it time to bring this custom back to English typesetting,
  or at least to offer it as viable alternative?\r\n\r\nI say yes! ( or should I say,
  \"\_I say yes ! \" )\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/05_01_3735.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "<cite>The standard practice in French and most European typography is to
    insert spaces (or a thin space and then a word space) around punctuation marks,
    except for full stops and commas.</cite>\r\n\r\nI've never heard of anything like
    that, i don't know about french typography, but in Germany it surely isn't a standard
    to \u201Cair\u201D punctuation marks, especially not quotes! Plus i can't say
    i find your example convincing. Of course there's adjustments to be made, depending
    on the typeface etc., but there surely isn't a rule to space these. The only exception
    i can think of are en/em-dashes, which generally are spaced with roundabout 1/8th
    of an em, and i personally think it looks better/more even than the american practice
    of not spacing these. But quotation marks? Surely not\u2026\r\nAll in my humble
    opinion of course."
  created: '2007-01-05 15:42:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Perhaps the older books were all set in metal type with little kerning posible?
    Using OpenType, you can create an alternate set of punctuation with more generous
    side bearings as a stylistic set. This might give the user the option to use more
    open spacing on punctuation.\r\nYour sample looks odd and uncomfortable to me
    though. This may be do to being American and not accustomed to seeing all those
    holes. Many publishers today like to get a great deal of text on a page to save
    money so I don't know if youwould have many takers on your idea where it is not
    already seen as normal.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-05 16:29:35'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "French is the only language I know of where this is done. Certainly not \"most
    European typography\" although there might be further languages where this is
    done.\r\nBy the way, Word typically recognises the laguage automatically and also
    inserts the spaces accordingly if it detects french.\r\n\r\nFrom the MS sharacter
    design standards:\r\n\r\n<cite>\r\nGuillemets\r\n\r\nThese quotation marks commonly
    called 'French quotes' or 'duck's feet' are said to have been named after a French
    typecutter Guillaume (William) Le B\xE9. Guillemets is the French word for quotation
    marks. The similarly named Guillemot is a narrow billed, sea auk with duck like
    feet found in cold northern regions of the world.\r\n\r\nThese pointing quotation
    marks are used in many languages and point differently dependent on the language.
    The German language uses these quotation marks with the right pointing guillemets
    as the open quotation marks and the left pointing guillemts as the close quotation
    marks. In French typography the left pointing quillemets are used as the open
    quotation marks and the right pointing quillemets are the closing quotation marks.\r\n\r\nTraditionally
    in French typography the left pointing guillemets are followed by a non-breaking
    word space or thin space of 1/8 the em and the right proceeded by a non-breaking
    word space or thin space of 1/8 the em.</cite>\r\n\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/developers/fdsspec/punc.aspx#guill"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Monoecus
    body: "Just a brief comment to Tim's statement: Note that the German speaking
      part of Switzerland always used and still uses the French way of setting the
      Guillemets in Swiss (standard) German typography, i.e. \xAB...\xBB"
    created: '2007-01-05 23:57:20'
  created: '2007-01-05 17:11:05'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Since the quotation marks are supposed to be connected to the text they contain,
    it seems odd and superfluous to set them apart. Some fonts kern the quote marks
    too tightly but that can be adjusted in kerning tables and not require a space.
  created: '2007-01-05 17:11:27'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I live in The Netherlands, and I dont think it is standard procedure here
    to do that. However, it might be that older Dutch books have this, I would have
    to check that out.\r\n\r\nI'm not a big fan of adding even <em>more</em> white
    space around quotes and such, since they already have so much negative space around
    them."
  created: '2007-01-05 17:26:57'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Too much air, it would seem to me, would make for spots on the page. With
    the attention being paid to good spacing these days in type design I find I rarely
    if ever add spaces around punctuation.
  created: '2007-01-05 17:55:46'
- author:
    name: poliphilus
    picture: 112065
  body: "...just to clarify a few moot points:\r\n\r\n1. The French custom is not
    limited to typographers but standard typing practice. \r\n\r\n2. The English examples
    dated from period that entertained both procedures. It is not kerning, but thin
    spaces and these have always been around.\r\n\r\n4. The custom itself is very
    ancient, going back to the Renaissance.\r\n\r\n5. Attached are few live examples
    from England and the US.\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/amercian_1975_4144.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/penguin_1962_4347.jpg]"
  created: '2007-01-05 18:03:57'
- author:
    name: poliphilus
    picture: 112065
  body: another one...[img:sites/default/files/old-images/05_01_5209.jpg]
  created: '2007-01-05 18:09:29'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: The example you cite as American says UK at the bottom. We use the double
    quotation mark, not the single mark, for dialogue. No space between the mark and
    the enclosed text.
  created: '2007-01-05 18:15:49'
- author:
    name: poliphilus
    picture: 112065
  body: "The first example is, nevertheless, American and maybe emphasizes that the
    question isn\u2019t about national boundaries at all but about good typography.
    The practice I am looking at  just happens to abound in France and older European
    typography. I think there is little doubt that in modern times default settings
    in software dictate to a large degree our typographical practices and tastes.\r\n\r\nIt
    seems to me that there is something inherently right about considering the space
    between letters and certain punctuation marks. In terms of nuance, this is akin
    to kerning and should not be done heavy-handedly; when carefully executed I think
    that the text has a better flow on the page. All I am saying is that we can make
    our own judgements and allow ourselves, if we think it is right, to be influenced
    by older or foreign customs. "
  created: '2007-01-05 18:36:10'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: I work with a woman from Quebec, a native French speaker, and when this came
    up recently, she said airing might be true of the French French, but not Canadian
    French.
  created: '2007-01-05 18:53:44'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "We have these debates on this forum all the time. There are discrepancies
    between typesetting conventions in the US, the UK, and Europe. There are also
    people who are more inclined to stick with the conventions than others. This came
    up in a discussion of em vs. en dashes sometime back.\r\n\r\nOf course you can
    \"make your own judgments\" it's a free country (or world) but you have to be
    conscious of the conventions as well, lest you risk looking like you just don't
    know how to typeset. If you like that extra space & want to add it, then be my
    guest, go ahead and add it, but don't look here for justification. It certainly
    ain't done on this side of the pond.\r\n\r\nThe \"American\" sample you cite was
    probably a reprint of a UK edition. It's highly unusual for Americans to use the
    single quote around dialogue."
  created: '2007-01-05 18:54:50'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "As much of an antiquarian I like to think myself, I know it isn't good to
    follow what was done during the days of the incunabula and after unless that is
    the specific look I'm going for because it isn't how we do things now.\r\n\r\nI
    agree with what Patty says 100%."
  created: '2007-01-05 19:49:12'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "In the one labelled American 1975, I do like the consideration taken when
    closing a quote that ends with a question mark as opposed to a comma or stop,
    although I do wonder if there had been a option to close up the space between
    comma and end quote, and so be able to close up the start quote and text, it might
    not have been taken. It is not always working well either, compare the \u2018W
    and \u2018A. \r\nThe double word spacing is  jarring, and probably not due a comeback.
    \r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-05 21:00:16'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I've always wondered why the Brits and everyone-else-who-uses-standard-quotes
    differ -- there's a trend in academia I've seen here in Canada that uses strict
    British style (and spellings, including things like <em>artefact</em>, which is
    unusual for here), but it does seem to be rather thought of by the great unwashed
    as effete.\r\n\r\nIn the good/bad old days, we typed and put two spaces after
    periods -- only people who still think they are on a typewriter do that anymore.\r\n\r\n(Thankfully!)"
  created: '2007-01-05 22:57:10'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Linda, what are \"standard quotes\"? \r\nThere are guillemets, singel, double,
    66-style, 99-style, high, low - I have seen these in almost every thinkable combination
    for opening and closing quotes as standards for various languages."
  created: '2007-01-05 23:38:18'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Here\u2019s an older thread, where quotes were also discussed.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/21213\r\n\r\nMore
    on Tim\u2019s comment:\r\nIn finnish it\u2019s okay to use a wide variety of quote
    marks. \u201D\u2026\u201D, \u2019\u2026\u2019, \xBB\u2026\xBB and I think there
    used to be this old germanish style, not sure which way these should point: \u201E\u2026\u201D.\r\n\r\nMost
    of this applies to swedish and perhaps norwegian and danish, too."
  created: '2007-01-06 00:48:08'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Tim, I'm referring to the basic \" and ': what you might label as sixes and
    nines (no smart*ss remarks please!), as in:\r\n\r\n\"Oh, look!\" and \"I once
    referred to the revolutionary army in Columbia known as 'FARC' but someone thought
    I had said 'f*rt'. \"\r\n\r\nThat's the western-side-of-the-pond style -- the
    eastern side would have reversed them, and put the period at the very end. Note
    also that I did leave a space between the period and the closed double quote:
    that's also fairly common in American and most Canadian style books when one has
    enclosed something in single quotes at the end of the sentence, not as a general
    practice."
  created: '2007-01-06 01:27:57'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "(Standard <em>english</em> quotes?)\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t mean to smarten my
    ass here but isn\u2019t the end double quote wrong in your example, Linda? We\u2019re
    talking about quotes here, after all. :^)\r\n\r\nAlso, what do you mean by \u201Cthe
    eastern side would have reversed them\u201D?"
  created: '2007-01-06 01:39:24'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Nope, I've got doubles at each end, and use singles within to show <em>soi-disant</em>
    quoted material.  In the UK, the reverse would be standard practice.  For example,
    TimD and his colleagues would have written\r\n\r\n'Oh, look!' and 'I once referred
    to the revolutionary army in Columbia know as \"FARC\" but someone thought I had
    said \"f*rt\"'. (Note the order of the double, single, and then period and compare
    to my previous example.)\r\n\r\nIs there one way to punctuate English? Um, well,
    I guess it depends on where you live.... If it didn't, editors like me would be
    out of work pretty quick.   ;-)"
  created: '2007-01-06 03:58:29'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Your last double points to right in my eyes (which Patricia has checked just
    this week ;^>), it\u2019s 66, not 99.\r\n\r\nYeah, but the quotes are the same,
    some just use singles as primary. (Standard english\u2026)\r\n\r\nReversing was
    about reversing the order? I somehow thought you meant we or the britons flip
    them around or something\u2026 All clear now."
  created: '2007-01-06 11:29:47'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">For example, TimD and his colleagues would have written\r\n\r\nI would never
    write something so vulgar \u2013 how's that for effete? :)\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-06 11:38:58'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Some more examples <a href=\"http://www.kltf.de/downloads/SpacingIssues-kltf.pdf\">here</a>.\r\nIt
    seems it was only recently* that Americans, Britains, Germans stopped spacing
    punctuation marks; my assumption is that this was caused by technical limitations
    in the first place (photo typesetting, then digital typesetting).\r\n\r\n* I.e.
    beginning to midth of the 20th century."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Bruce
      picture: 112056
    body: "Karsten brings up an interesting point related to a personal project I've
      been working on over the past ten years. And ever since Tiffany mentioned that
      \r\n\r\n<em>As much of an antiquarian I like to think myself, I know it isn\u2019t
      good to follow what was done during the days of the incunabula and after unless
      that is the specific look I\u2019m going for because it isn\u2019t how we do
      things now.</em>\r\n\r\nI have been chewing on this for the past couple of years.
      I'd love to get some feedback from you guys about it. (And Tiffany, I realize
      you are talking about incunabula but you also say \"and after\" so that certainly
      would include the 19th century.)\r\n\r\nMy project is an English translation
      of Alphonse Daudet's <em>Letters from my Mill,</em> illustrated with my own
      black-and-white photographs of the places in Provence that Daudet describes.
      The book is a classic of French literature set in Provence in the late 19th
      century, at that time considered by Parisians to be very much a \"foreign place.\"
      Daudet wrote a series of letters published in the Paris papers, and these were
      later gathered to make the book. Provence, with its own language and customs,
      was being quickly eclipsed by the northern industrial energies of France (for
      example, it was against the law to speak Proven\xE7al in public). In a sense,
      Daudet did for the Proven\xE7al culture what photographer Edward Curtis did
      for the North American Indians, trying to preserve the spirit of something that
      was changing rapidly. It is a beautiful set of small observations about human
      nature, and I believe it deserves to be better-known in the Anglophone world.\r\n\r\nAnyhoo,
      the very best translation of this work that I could find is from England, 1893.
      Although it does not have guillemets, and handles dialogue differently from
      Daudet's original French, it <em>does</em> employ the spacing that Karsten is
      talking about. Because the book is so firmly rooted in the 19th century, some
      part of me wants to preserve those subtle cadences in the typography -- although
      I hasten to add that I have made my own choice of printing type (Adobe Garamond)
      different from the spidery and contrasty type used in the book and much smoother
      in tone.\r\n\r\nThe example below follows modern typographic conventions, although
      I did keep the em-dashes closed up (rather than my more typical practice of
      en-dashes with mild amounts of space both sides). The book is planned for black-and-gray
      duotones, with gray printer used to set stick-up caps and footnotes, black printer
      for regular text. The footnotes are my own addition, wanting to illuminate for
      the reader some of the references in Daudet's text that will be unfamiliar to
      most anglophones.\r\n\r\nBut lately I've been thinking that in addition to the
      em-dashes, I'd like to retain the spaces before question marks, semi-colons,
      and so forth. If I choose to keep the typographic details intact -- to provide
      something of the experience that a reader would have picking up the actual 1893
      book -- will that be confusing, or will it help to take the reader back in time?\r\n\r\nThanks
      for any comments.\r\n\r\nAlso, I've been getting very mixed reviews of the footnotes
      as I pass the page proofs around to a wide variety of people. Some adore them
      and say that they add lots of value to the reading experience; others say \"It
      reminds me of stuff I had to read in college with [note of horror creeps into
      voice] <em>footnotes.</em> Yuck!\" Thoughts?\r\n\r\nBruce [img:sites/default/files/old-images/8-9spread_5915.jpg]"
    created: '2007-01-06 16:12:57'
  created: '2007-01-06 15:24:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks for the interesting topic and examples.\r\n\r\nLooking at the examples,
    spacing out the question mark and exclamation so much doesn't make sense to me,
    and doesn't look so good, as it functions just like a period and comma. These
    are visually heavier than the comma and period, and so maybe could have a little
    more air around them, I think, and that is a good idea. But the spacing around
    them in the examples I think is excessive. \r\n\r\nThe semi-colon and colon could
    be given a bit more space in theory, as they function somewhat differently: they
    break the middle of a sentence more than a comma does. Also they again are a bit
    heavier than the period and comma. Still to my eyes, which are used to the tight
    style, the hair space looks a bit disruptive.\r\n\r\nThe quotes to my eyes do
    look better spaced a bit more widely than the other punctuation.  And I think
    there is some logic to it: they come in pairs, and by spacing more, the pair is
    more evident. \r\n\r\nAlso I think Patty's observation that some typefaces have
    the quotes too  tight lends weight to this. For example Minion's quotes are quite
    tight.    \r\n\r\nSo my conclusion is personally to look again at the punctuation
    in the typeface I am working on. I will check that the heaviness of the question
    and exclamation have enough 'air' to balance. And I will experiment with adding
    just bit more space to the the colon and semi colon, and quotes--not necessarily
    to the same amounts. Then I'll see how it looks in settings.\r\n\r\nThe weight
    of a dot and its spacing can indeed affect the look of a whole page, so I think
    this is worth working on as a type designer.  \r\n\r\nAs a typographer, I would
    look at whether adding a hair space, eg. to Minion's quotes, would help. \r\n\r\nedit:
    now that I think of it, there is a problem with single right quotes, as these
    are used also as apostrophes. So maybe the better solution will lie in kerning
    or substitution.  "
  created: '2007-01-06 15:57:46'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "pattyfab* wrote:\r\n<cite>Of course you can \"make your own judgments\" it's
    a free country (or world) but you have to be conscious of the conventions as well,
    lest you risk looking like you just don't know how to typeset. If you like that
    extra space & want to add it, then be my guest, go ahead and add it, but don't
    look here for justification. It certainly ain't done on this side of the pond.</cite>\r\n\r\n!?
    -- Obviously not that free, as your last sentence indicates.\r\n\r\nIf you write
    'lest you risk looking like you just don't know how to typeset' you may be right,
    unfortunately. But typographic knowledge may be a bit more than having learned
    a handful of rules at school. If it's possible to look into o.o.p. American books
    on my side of the pond, on your side it should be even easier.\r\n\r\nBtw, when
    using German/British/American quotation marks, too much spacing looks strange
    indeed. And even though I appreciate spaced punctuation marks, this cannot be
    done as generously today as it was done in previous times.\r\n\r\n* Not Linda
    Cunningham as I wrote!"
  created: '2007-01-06 16:02:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Very nice. Side notes are usually more attractive than foot notes, but won't
    go with your layout. \r\n\r\nI personally don't have a problem with your footnotes,
    though. I think the small size you have given them is appropriate. You might consider
    using a slightly tapered or other slightly more decorative rule. That may give
    a pleasant 19th century feel, I think, and may work if sufficiently unobtrusive.
    \r\n\r\nThe other option is to have them as end-notes. The question is, I guess,
    how often you think the reader will need to refer to them. If not so often, or
    later, then end-notes will do. \r\n\r\nHaving both a comma and an em dash (second
    column) looks like a mistake.  "
  created: '2007-01-06 16:27:00'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "Thanks for your thumb up on the footnotes. I will not do them as end notes
    for the very reason you cite -- my thought was, if they are small and gray, and
    you want to ignore them, you can, and if you want to consult them, there they
    are. End notes require walking to the next county and human nature simply doesn't
    want to do that. \r\n\r\nGreat suggestion about belly rules.\r\n\r\nComma and
    em dash as set here is me following the 1893 edition out the window. I didn't
    feel that I could change that, hence my leaning toward perhaps preserving even
    more of the feeling of the 1893 book."
  created: '2007-01-06 16:37:45'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Actually, Karsten, I didn't say that -- Patty did.  (We're usually not easy
    to confuse, however: I'm the old Canuck, she's the young Noo Yawka....)\r\n\r\nSorry
    TimD ;-)  I'm positive that you would have made a much more refined cultural reference
    -- I was just listening to a report on South American politics at the time.  \r\n\r\nLove
    the picture, type, and use of footnotes, Bruce: what prompted you to take on this
    project?  I've been considering something similar, using a friend's poem and creating
    a small chapbook...."
  created: '2007-01-06 16:42:39'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>Actually, Karsten, I didn\u2019t say that \u2014 Patty did.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'll
    correct it!"
  created: '2007-01-06 17:00:41'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Yes, the footnotes are unobtrusive enough that they don't disturb. I like
    the idea to setting them in grey, so show that they are of less importance than
    the text itself.\r\n\r\nComma and emdash, colon and emdash, semicolon and emdash,
    comma and emdash and opening parenthesis -- I particularly remember both a book
    by B.H. Smart of 1842 and reviews of it (in \"Literary Examiner\", text by John
    Stuart Mill, or \"The Monthly Review\") where all these appear frequently; same
    in the USA, for example F.A. Rauch's \"Psychology\", NY: Dodd, 1841; G. Boole's
    \"Laws of Thought\", NY: Macmillan, 1854.\r\n\r\nAnother funny thing: The way
    we today quote in emails, by preceding lines like this\r\n&gt; This is\r\n&gt;
    a quote!\r\nwas at some time used to indicate speach and quotes, like this\r\n\"
    This is\r\n\" a quote!\r\n(But the 66 version.)"
  created: '2007-01-06 17:28:14'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "<em>Love the picture, type, and use of footnotes, Bruce: what prompted you
    to take on this project? \r\n</em>\r\n\r\nI lived in Grenoble in 1968-69 for a
    year and it was a life-changing experience (I was 18-19). A particularly interesting
    time to be there as it was right after \xABles \xE9v\xE9nements de mai\xBB (for
    those not familiar with this, it was a unified uprising of workers and students
    against the de Gaulle government in May 1968). I also took to the language and
    luckily became pretty fluent. Ever since I have generally kept a French book by
    my bedside as well as something in English (right now Voltaire's <em>Candide</em>
    is bunking with Barbara Kingsolver's <em> Poisonwood Bible</em> -- which makes
    for rather marked contrasts in venue! -- but it could just as easily be poetry
    or a <em>roman policier</em>.\r\n\r\nAt one point in my thirties I was visiting
    my parents and noticed a small Nelson edition of Daudet (in French). I had always
    heard of this book but had never encountered it in school, so I picked it up and
    as I read through it, I was deeply moved by it. For better than a century the
    book was always on booklists in the <em>lyc\xE9e</em> and therefore a real cultural
    anchor, but I think now it may be less widely read. I get the impression that
    Daudet's star is fading in modern French culture, as is Anatole France's, perhaps
    because they don't do enough with plot and inner psychological stuff in characters
    -- rather they remain as more naturalistic observers, interested but in a way
    neutral. \r\n\r\nGiven my affection for Provence, and for the stories in Daudet's
    book, I began to think of this illustrated edition. In the past, any illustrated
    editions in France were always done by well-known childrens' illustrators. My
    thought was that a lot of anglo readers had been introduced to Provence by the
    often amusing (but to my heart definiely l-i-t-e) writing of Peter Mayle, and
    wasn't it time they encountered a <em>real</em> Proven\xE7al writer? I felt that
    the tone and content of Daudet would be better-suited to a modern anglo audience
    than Giono or Pagnol or Bosco, all very worthy writers, but the great thing about
    Daudet is that he is describing Provence for a foreign audience (Parisians) and
    the book gives a vivid sense of what life was like in those days. The best-selling
    edition of <em>Letters</em> here in the States was issued by Little Brown and
    was quite a cold translation. Eventually I found the one I'm using, by Frank Hunter
    Potter, and it manages to preserve the same twinkle-in-the-eye light touches of
    Daudet's original in French.\r\n\r\nI have all the pictures taken, from various
    trips I made over the past ten years, and the book is all designed -- it's really
    just a matter of figuring out how to get it into print. I shopped it around to
    various main-line publishers and they all made complimentary noises but said no.
    I think they are all terrified of visual books in general, and of this book because
    it doesn't fit into a neatly-defined pigeonhole that someone like Barnes and Noble
    can use. They say it's too expensive to go in literature, and has too much text
    to go in travel or photography! My intention all along was that it would go to
    independent bookstores (Hey, people who actually think! and who make personalized
    recommendations to their customers. Sorry, that is probably unfair) rather than
    chains, but it still has to be published by someone. A few years ago a very distinguished
    literary press was interested and I actually signed a prelim contract with them,
    but I was afraid I'd lose control of the production and design, and decided to
    back out, preferring that it not be published at all rather than issued in a compromised
    state. So for the moment it sits. It's planned as a 7.25 x 10.75 (18 x 27 cm)
    upright, 160 pages. Hope I can do something with it someday, even if ultimately
    I just \"give it to the world\" as a PDF.     \r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019ve been considering
    something similar, using a friend\u2019s poem and creating a small chapbook\u2026.</em>\r\n\r\nWell
    worth doing, as long as you can figure out distribution. I recently did a lovely
    book with a friend who is a poet and restoration bookbinder. We printed all the
    sheets on acid-free paper on my laserwriter (did it all in 4s) and then she gathered
    them and bound them in a small edition. Worked great. The trouble with my book
    is the pictures, which requires a very high price of admission. Given all the
    shifts in the market, perhaps I can convince one of my good book-printer friends
    to go in with me and I'll end up marketing it myself, but no time for that right
    now.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of things Canuck, another fantastic book I discovered as
    an adult is <em>Maria Chapdelaine.</em> I would adore to make a photographic edition
    of that, but perhaps it's already been done. (I wonder if it's even been translated
    into English?)\r\n\r\nOkay, back to work."
  created: '2007-01-06 17:36:19'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Karsten: I was careful to say \"convention\" instead of \"rule\". There is
    a difference\u2014at least IMO. And as is clear on this thread as well as several
    others, the conventions are open to question and evolve over time. There are authors
    who don't even use quotation marks.\r\n\r\nMy background is in book publishing
    where Chicago is the lingua franca. Even a slight deviation from the standards
    will be red-penciled; you can't just decide you want to use a spaced en where
    an em is called for in the manuscript. \r\n\r\nI do find it frustrating when people
    decide to reinvent punctuation as it suits them. These conventions have a purpose,
    they let us understand where there is a break in a thought; where a snippet of
    dialogue ends; where one thought connects with another. But I realize that those
    who want to bend or break the \"rules\" don't want to be convinced otherwise\u2014to
    them the rules are a tool of the establishment.  \r\n\r\nTo them I say: Vive la
    revolution! But like I said, don't expect me to pat you on the back."
  created: '2007-01-06 17:58:34'
- author:
    name: poliphilus
    picture: 112065
  body: "Thank you Karsten for you learned remarks on well-spaced punctuation and
    for its historical contextualization. The examples you supply (in the PDF) are
    also extremely illuminating and confirm that technology, or its limitations, dictates
    typographical practice that in turn become \u2018rules\u2019. However, we seem
    to be in a fortunate position that allows us to re-apply some finer points, careful
    spacing of punctuation being one of them \u2013 providing we are not enthralled
    by the dictates of mega-corporations (e.g. Chicago). We are simply reclaiming
    and rediscovering the world of hairline spaces, thin spaces, word spaces, em spaces
    etc. (the fact that some traditions have a longer memory is completly immaterial).
    \r\n\r\nTwo important issues seem to arise: the first is that regardless of the
    tradition we subscribe to, punctuation marks require extra-special care in fine
    typography and secondly, that by broadening our typographical catchment area we
    can be expressive. Consider how Bringhurst set in English Tschichold\u2019s \u2018The
    Form of the Book\u2019 \u2013 with guillemets!\r\n\r\nI can only reiterate your
    eloquent and finely set final words: \r\n\r\n<cite>\r\nIt would appear that with
    the advent of digital typesetting, typographic knowledge got\r\nlost. At first,
    technology had imposed its limitations. Succeeding generations then\r\nwere raised
    with typographic standards that were not set by typographers any more but by office
    applications and their 'users'. Now educational efforts are necessary to make
    aware of the need for proper spacing - just like oldstyle figures had to be re-introduced
    to typographic consciousness.</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-06 19:11:29'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Bruce writes:\r\n<em>Speaking of things Canuck, another fantastic book I
    discovered as an adult is </em>Maria Chapdelaine.<em> I would adore to make a
    photographic edition of that, but perhaps it\u2019s already been done. (I wonder
    if it\u2019s even been translated into English?)</em>\r\n\r\nGoodness, yes --
    I remember reading it years ago.  I also work hard to keep up my French: our local
    uni runs immersion weekends out in the mountains with good food but, unfortunately,
    no wine.  Bummer!  ;-(\r\n\r\nThe project I'm thinking of doing would likely be
    a one-off -- when Jan first published that collection, she set the type and bound
    off a few copies for friends before it was picked up by a \"mainstream\" house
    (and then went on to get the Governor-General's prize for English poetry), so
    I certainly wouldn't want to compete with that.  ;-)"
  created: '2007-01-06 19:25:54'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: 'In fact, Bruce, there are several translations available free online: one
    at http://etext.virginia.edu/toc/modeng/public/HemMari.html and another through
    Project Gutenberg....'
  created: '2007-01-06 20:41:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bruce, I find the Garamond too generic, and inappropriate for the era. \r\nI'd
    say take the reader back with full 19th century style, using a Scotch modern and
    the punctuation spacing that intrigues you so. A little bit of kerning and not
    such a large word space as was used then, would keep it from being too strange,
    and those are details taken care of by today's fonts. If the footnotes are a bit
    much on the page, group them at chapter end, or book end."
  created: '2007-01-06 23:35:55'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "I can't quite understand what the <em>purpose</em> of this thread's suggestion
    might be; that is, if the suggestion is to add space inside quotation marks, to
    what end? What is the purpose of doing so? How would it benefit the reader? How
    would it improve the typography?\r\n\r\nForgive me, but this looks, on the surface,
    like an attempt to show one's typographic astuteness, but is in fact just a snipe
    hunt.\r\n\r\nAs a few have here commented, \"airing out\" quotes would simply
    introduce gaps and dots to the text block, massively increasing the likelihood
    of visible \"rivers.\"\r\n\r\nLet alone the issue of indented paragraphs beginning
    with quotes, or, god forbid, large drop-cap/initials with quotes (how far out
    into the margin do you want to hang that quote?).\r\n\r\nThe ongoing dilemma about
    spacing em- & en-dashes seems to me grounded in this problem: spacing them \"looks\"
    better close up, but creates gaps from a distance. This dilemma continues to keep
    many of us up at night.\r\n\r\nThe argument for convention has it's benefits,
    but perhaps, at different periods, there is/was a convention for both (\"aired\"/not
    \"aired\"). The current convention seems to lean towards the not \"aired\" variety.
    Conventions are useful, of course, but they should, indeed, be challenged if there
    is <em>good reason</em> to challenge them.\r\n\r\nSo, my question: Is there really
    any <em>good</em> reason to introduce space inside quotation marks (other than
    to impress others with an historical anomoly)?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: poliphilus
      picture: 112065
    body: "The \u2018good reason\u2019 is because \u2018Perfect typography depends
      on perfect harmony between all of its elements [and] harmony is determined by
      relationships or proportions [that] are hidden everywhere\u2019 (Jan Tschichold,
      <cite> The Form of the Book </cite>), most notably between the basic units of
      typography. Punctuation marks are no different in this respect from letters,
      and anyone who cares about kerning, should, by the same token, care about how
      the thin-space preceding a colon. \r\n\r\nIf anything, the \u2018historical
      anomaly\u2019 is not to thin space punctuation marks, but <strong>not </strong>
      to do so."
    created: '2007-01-07 10:01:11'
  created: '2007-01-06 23:44:31'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "If exclamation marks, question marks, colons, semicolons, guillemets glue
    at the word, they are hard to recognize. ('Welll' or 'Well!') With a little space
    between word and mark, one can <cite>see</cite> the structure of a sentence more
    easily.\r\n\r\nEn- and em-dashes: in a German text it is quite clear if an en-dash
    is used as a 'gedankenstrich' (giving thought a break) because there is a space
    to its left/right, or if it indicates distances because there is no space ('Hamburg--Berlin').
    A useful distinction.\r\nBut it matters whether an en- or em-dash is used, how
    long it actually is (depends on the typeface), and <cite>how much</cite> space
    is added. Of course it is nonsense to add much space around a long em-dash, and
    produce an even larger white space in the text.\r\n\r\nSpacing quotation marks
    really produce holes, as I said above.\r\n\r\nSpacing punctuation marks depends
    much on the overall spacing of a typeface. Some type designers give punctuation
    marks very little space, other give them a bit more by default. Like Verdana.&nbsp;&nbsp;:)\r\nAs
    Nick indicated when he mentioned the too wide word spaces of earlier typography
    -- it would be nonsense to merely imitate earlier typographic habits. But I see
    no problem in picking out things that makes sense, typographically."
  created: '2007-01-07 09:28:53'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Ornan, while to my mind quoting Tschichold is, again, simply stating one
    opinion (albeit one I tend to give large credence), and thus I don't think any
    reference or quotation makes something \"true,\" I do agree with the sentiment
    of your last post. But it seems to me this thread has not been specifically about
    harmony or balance, let alone \"perfect\" anything; what I've read here is a proposed
    protocol for inserting a set amount of space inside various punctuation characters.
    This kind of prescription appears to be rooted in digital typesetting as it has
    become so simple to automate typographic behaviour by simply scripting-in various
    replacements and insertions. While some here have drawn attention to the differences
    in metrics & kerning from one font to another, largely the issue has not been
    about kerning (which, I think, is the issue at hand), but about inserting spacial
    characters which are themselves relative and thus imposible to use as any sort
    of \"standard.\"\r\n\r\nTo my mind what Tschichold is talking about is attention
    to detail, something I think we're all clearly interested in, and by that I mean
    an attention to each project as distinct, each typeface as requiring its own treatment,
    each typographic instance as worthy of attention. When setting metal each double-quote
    may set differently than the last, thus spacing it requires the typesetter's attention,
    just as setting a closing double-quote after a comma often requires special attention
    digitally. But I suppose what I was responding to above was what seemed to be
    a one-size-fits-all approach that would introduce far more spacing problems than
    it would solve."
  children:
  - author:
      name: poliphilus
      picture: 112065
    body: 'Jason, your point is well taken. You and Nick are right that one has to
      judge evey typeface according to its own merit and that there are certain risks
      in applying a blanket ''one-size-fits-all'' approach. Karsten has convincingly
      demonstrated the rational behind airy punctuation (in his PDF) and explained
      its evolvement. I suppose that the only point I was trying to make is that within
      the confines of good taste and the quest for fine typography there is room for
      a greater tolerance with regard to spaces around punctuation marks. Moreover,
      this airiness is not only the current standard practice in France but also,
      until not too long ago, in most European countries. '
    created: '2007-01-07 21:47:44'
  created: '2007-01-07 19:28:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Right Jason.\r\nThere's no point in a blanket approach to one's spacing,
    because the built-in spacing of fonts has to be considered, and that varies hugely.\r\nRobert
    Slimbach has probably paid more attention to spacing than most type designers,
    going so far as to insert negative kerning between letters and the space character,
    but even his approach is not consistent (nor should it be) amongst his types.
    For instance, he kerns \"space-Y\" in Myriad, but not Minion, while he kerns \"period-doublequoteright\"
    in both.\r\nSlimbach is the fine typographer's friend, but his philosophy is the
    opposite of airyness.\r\n\r\nPoliphilus, your airy style has its merits, and there
    is nothing to stop you remixing Slimbach's metrics, or anyone else's, to fabulous
    effect. But I wouldn't hold it out as a general best practice."
  created: '2007-01-07 20:00:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Slimbach is the fine typographer\u2019s friend, but his philosophy is the
    opposite of airyness.\r\n\r\nI don't think anyone is doing better work than Slimbach
    on text types, but I don't like the very tight punctuation. It is more economical,
    which is what he was aiming for in Minion, I guess, but I think it compromises
    readability a bit. \r\n\r\nReflecting further on 'Poliphilus' and Karsten's examples,
    I think that punctuation on the loose and large side is a good idea for readability,
    but that the hair space style is unnecessary, and is distracting to eyes used
    to the tight style. Now my thinking is just to have punctuation a bit looser,
    compared to the current style. \r\n\r\nOf course, it should reflect the style
    of the font also. "
  created: '2007-01-08 13:44:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think the user has the option of adjusting such things on a per-job basis
    and that the type designer can not forsee all users intentions and only need make
    it possible for the user to make their own accomodations. This has always been
    done but it is very much easier with today's tools.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-08 14:53:56'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I noticed something while reading the scriptures the other day. The punctuation
    except for comma and stop did have a thin space (or a little more perhaps) before
    them. As I scanned the page, completely forgetting what I was really doing (!),
    I noticed that in some ways it helped the page. For instance. If you have a sentence
    ending in a question mark. I actually could see a little argument for it. But
    only a little space nothing even near a full-space.
  created: '2007-01-24 19:56:14'
date: '2007-01-05 15:03:34'
node_type: forum
title: Airing punctuation marks

---
