---
author:
  name: Brown Fox
  picture: 111148
body: "I'm trying to compile a list of the 20 most important [[designers|type designers]]
  of all time. Which one would they be? I know this is personal, so I just wrote down
  what came to my mind, odered by living and dead. I know this is by no means complete
  or correct yet. Please feel free to add / edit!\r\n\r\nV.3 \u2014\r\n\r\nDead:\r\n-
  [[Claude Garamond]] \r\n- [[William Caslon]]\r\n- [[Frederic W. Goudy]]\r\n- [[Francesco
  Griffo]]\r\n- [[John Baskerville]]\r\n- [[Morris Fuller Benton]]\r\n- [[Giambattista
  Bodoni]]\r\n- [[Emil Rudolf Weiss]]\r\n- [[Edward Johnston]]\r\n- [[Eric Gill]]\r\n-
  [[Stanley Morison]]\r\n- [[Rudolf Koch]]\r\n- [[Nicholas Jenson]]\r\n- [[Paul Renner]]\r\n-
  [[Roger Excoffon]]\r\n- [[Herb Lubalin]]\r\n- [[Max Miedinger]]\r\n- [[Chauncey
  H. Griffith]]\r\n- [[Evert Bloemsma]]\r\n\r\nLiving:\r\n- [[Herman Zapf]]\r\n- [[Edward
  Benguiat]]\r\n- [[Gerrit Noordzij]]\r\n- [[Adrian Frutiger]]\r\n- [[Bram de Does]]\r\n-
  [[Mathew Carter]]\r\n- [[Erik Spiekermann]]\r\n- [[Gerard Unger]]\r\n- [[Frank Blokland]]\r\n-
  [[Kris Holmes]]\r\n- [[Carol Twombly]]"
comments:
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Surely there's a place for [[Frederic W. Goudy]]?\r\n\r\nI know he designed
    Avante Garde, but isn't Herb Lubalin known more as a typographer than a type designer?"
  created: '2007-01-05 20:58:03'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "You might want to limit it to the dead as some of the living frequent this
    site...\r\n\r\nBesides it's subjective who is the most important."
  created: '2007-01-05 20:59:58'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "You might want to make a further difference between designers that have created
    \"several designs\" and the older ones that are known for \"one style\". It might
    be hard to draw the line, however. Bodoni has produced quite different fonts whereas
    Renner is almost only known for one design.\r\n\r\nIf you add Bodoni, you definitely
    need Didot, they were more important imho. I am missing Zapf, Slimbach, possibly
    Porchez."
  created: '2007-01-05 21:18:43'
- author:
    name: Solipsism
  body: I vote for the turkey's leg.
  created: '2007-01-05 21:25:22'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "[[Robert Slimbach]]\r\n\r\n[[David Berlow]]\r\n\r\n[[Cyrus Highsmith]]\r\n\r\n[[Jean
    Francois Porchez|Jean Fran\xE7ois Porchez]]\r\n\r\n[[John Hudson]]\r\n\r\n[[Hermann
    Zapf]]\r\n\r\n[[Jeremy Tankard]]\r\n\r\n[[Akira Kobayashi]]"
  created: '2007-01-05 21:39:25'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "What about ol' [[William Addison Dwiggins]]?\r\n\r\n- 20 seems like such
    an arbitrary number why not 10 or 25?\r\n- How would you categorize THE GREATEST
    TYPOGRAPHERS OF ALL TIME? What are the determining factors: Quantity, Quality,
    Influence, Contributions that changed type design forever, Techniques? "
  created: '2007-01-05 21:45:04'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "[[Nicholas Jenson]]\r\n[[Adrian Frutiger]]"
  created: '2007-01-05 21:45:39'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: "Another vote for Jenson.\r\n\r\nAs for the living, while he is still young
    yet, I'd make an argument for Jonathan Hoefler."
  created: '2007-01-05 22:12:40'
- author:
    name: gulliver
    picture: 110581
  body: "I second all those already nominated above.\r\n\r\n- For additional consideration
    (all dead):\r\nLudovico degli Arrighi\r\nRichard Austin\r\nJohn Baskerville\r\nMorris
    Fuller Benton\r\nWilliam Caslon\r\nFran\xE7ois-Ambrose Didot\r\nFirmin Didot\r\nWilliam
    Addison Dwiggins\r\nJohann Michael Fleischman\r\nPierre Simon Fournier\r\nRobert
    Granjon\r\nFrancesco Griffo\r\nFran\xE7ois Guyot\r\nVictor Hammer\r\nJean Jannon\r\nNicolas
    Jenson\r\nMikl\xF3s T\xF3tfalusi Kis\r\nGiovanni Mardersteig\r\nOldrich Menhart\r\nAlexander
    Phemister\r\nFriedrich Poppl\r\nVojtech Preissig\r\nRudolph Ruzicka\r\nGeorg Trump\r\nHendrik
    van den Keere\r\nChristoffel van Dijck\r\nJan van Krimpen\r\nJustus Erich Walbaum\r\n\r\n\r\n-
    And (all living):\r\nFrank Blokland\r\nChris Brand\r\nJohn Downer\r\nTobias Frere-Jones\r\nJonathan
    Hoefler\r\nKris Holmes\r\nG\xFCnter Gerhard Lange\r\nZuzana Licko\r\nMartin Majoor\r\nHans
    Eduard Meier\r\nJos\xE9 Mendoza y Almeida\r\nPeter Matthias Noordzij\r\nSumner
    Stone\r\nCarol Twombly\r\nGerard Unger\r\nRudy VanderLans\r\nJovica Veljovic\r\nGudrun
    Zapf-von Hesse\r\n\r\nAlso, Pietro Bembo was a Venetian Poet and historian, not
    a type designer. The Monotype typeface Bembo is named for him, but Bembo Roman
    was based on a roman font designed by Francesco Griffo in 1495. Bembo Italic was
    based on Blado, which was, in turn, based on a font used by typographer Antonio
    Blado of Rome, but designed by Ludovico degli Arrighi about 1526.\r\n\r\nDavid
    Thometz\r\n(who still hopes to make the list someday :) )"
  created: '2007-01-05 22:23:40'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: "+ <a href=\"http://typophile.com/wiki/Hermann%20Zapf\">Hermann Zapf</a>\r\n+
    <a href=\"http://typophile.com/wiki/Max%20Miedinger\">Max Miedinger</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: pino
    body: Absolutely Max Miedinger. Hard to believe only one person in this discussion
      has mentioned him so far. Helvetica was the most popular and useful typeface
      of its time. It still is one of the most useful, despite its having fallen from
      the graces of the avant garde.
    created: '2007-01-07 18:07:29'
  created: '2007-01-05 22:32:39'
- author:
    name: mjpatrick
    picture: 111908
  body: "I don't see how it can be only 20 and complete by any means, but I was sure
    expecting to see Zapf on the list.\r\n\r\nGetting more into the 21st century,
    a few that come to mind are Carol Twombly and Ray Larabie."
  created: '2007-01-05 23:22:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'How are you defining ''important''? '
  created: '2007-01-05 23:54:04'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Ooh. Simon, before I made it to your comment I had the same exact thought.
    I think for those who come after us, who will run across this thread, it might
    be more useful for all to include a reason why they should be on the list.
  created: '2007-01-06 00:03:11'
- author:
    name: mjpatrick
    picture: 111908
  body: "I was defining 'important' as simply designers whose work -either individual
    designs, or as a body of work- I felt was relevant during the time it was created
    (or is now relevant today).\r\n\r\nHermann Zapf: Palatino, Optima, Zapfino...
    those are good reasons, I don't see a need to go any further.\r\n\r\nCarol Twombly:
    because of Trajan, Charlemagne, contributions to Myriad, etc. Carol's name and
    work was one of the first I became associated with when I began with digital type
    (My first college text on type design was \"Stop Stealing Sheep & Find Out How
    Type Works\", and Carol was one of several featured within, IIRC). Also her Association
    Typographique Internationale award- it's always stuck in my mind she was the first
    woman to win it. I'm not sure if she is still designing today, but her work with
    type certainly lives on.\r\n\r\nRay Larabie: I would bet some would be surprised
    to see my mention of Mr. Larabie, largely because his past work was not quite
    so \"original\" (considering the freeware fonts he created based from existing
    corporate logos). Love it or not, I think quite a bit of that became an underground
    movement in itself, spurred \"non-designers\" to experiment with type a little
    more, and indirectly drew more serious attention towards reproducing typefaces
    not yet digitized.\r\n\r\nSince going commercial & focusing on more original work,
    some of it's become quite popular- I see Neuropol X in the media quite a bit these
    days, and quite frankly, I think it's a good face for the times.\r\n\r\nDoes this
    explain the reasoning behind my choices a little better? I will admit my choices
    are a little more biased towards my personal taste rather than leaning towards
    what some may deem more historically significant. I really think this post's question
    is impossible to answer, but fun nonetheless."
  created: '2007-01-06 02:00:52'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "I was surprised that Lubalin is on your list - and yet Benguiat seems to
    be overlooked...\r\n\r\nAnd please, don't forget Phil Martin\r\nhe had so many
    original faces - and a great sense of\r\ntype design. RIP Phil."
  created: '2007-01-06 02:19:16'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "(designers from the USSR area code)\r\n\r\n Tagir Safayev \r\n\r\n Vladimir
    Yefimov \r\n"
  created: '2007-01-06 02:44:12'
- author:
    name: gthompson
    picture: 109676
  body: "Maybe it's just late and I'm being curmudgeonly BUT: Bembo isn't a type designer
    by any measure. Poor Mr. Griffo always gets ignored when he invented a whole genre
    of typefaces. Where I come from not mentioning him is a hanging offense. And Johnston
    wasn't really a type designer--disagree all you want, he was a calligrapher who
    designed some signage. How on earth could you compile such a list and not mention
    Goudy, Dwiggins, and Cooper! And how could you make such a list and not mention
    any WOMEN designers?\r\n\r\nRenner belongs even if he only designed Futura since
    it was one of the most popular and influential faces of the 20th C. and he has
    the distinction of having been persecuted by the Nazi's for having designed it
    in the first place. How many other type designers can say that?\r\n\r\nAnd did
    anyone mention Menhart? The list isn't merely for western europeans is it? How
    many type designers have been commissioned to design a face for their country's
    constitution? \r\n\r\nAnd where's Baskerville and Caslon? And if you mention Bodoni
    (my favorite) you must mention Didot, and not just Firmin, but all of the type
    designers in the bunch. And where's Fournier??? Vincent Figgins??? Doesn't inventing
    slab serif types mean anything?  William Caslon IV maybe? And where did all those
    19th C. advertising faces come from if not for Mr. Thorne? Doesn't that rate?
    Darius Wells who invented wood type??? Shouldn't he be one of the top guys on
    the list? And I have to mention Augereau even if he isn't one of the top 20 since
    he is the only type designer executed for heresy. \r\n\r\nOf course there's Jenson,
    and one could make a case for Sweynheim and Pannartz. But the most glaring omission
    is of course the most important type designer of all time: Johan Genzfleisch zum
    Gutenberg who invented it in the first place.  \r\n\r\nGeorge \r\nI felt bad because
    I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
  created: '2007-01-06 04:43:57'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Where I come from not mentioning him is a hanging offense. \r\n\r\nNice!
    ;-) reminds me of the other typographic joke...\r\n\r\n\"Griffo's brother in law
    walks into a bar...\" "
  created: '2007-01-06 04:49:24'
- author:
    name: gthompson
    picture: 109676
  body: "Oh, and I forgot to mention Benton, one of the most prolific, and Weiss whose
    work can be seen in print nearly every day. And Griffith shouldn't be in the top
    100, much less the top 20. \r\n\r\nI'm avoiding picking up a specimen book since
    it will only result in more names. I don't think the list can be narrowed down
    to 20 or even to 100. I think this is like \"what typefaces would you want on
    a desert island?\" The correct answer is all of them, every last one. \r\n\r\nGeorge
    \r\nI felt bad because I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
  created: '2007-01-06 04:56:43'
- author:
    name: gthompson
    picture: 109676
  body: "<em>\u201CGriffo\u2019s brother in law walks into a bar\u2026\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    way I heard the joke was \"Griffo's son in law walks into a bar.\" \r\n\r\nGeorge
    \r\nI felt bad because I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
  created: '2007-01-06 04:59:08'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "That will teach me for believing everything I read at MyFonts... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/person/griffo/francesco/\r\n\r\nWiki
    seems to have it right... \r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Francesco_Griffo\r\n\r\n...also
    someone should put together a list of the top 20 reasons why writing a list of
    the top 20 things is a complete waste of time.  "
  created: '2007-01-06 05:02:55'
- author:
    name: NigellaL
    picture: 111493
  body: I thought I read once that James Montalbano designed the official typeface
    of American highways so I'm sure he's well qualified to be on this list. And didn't
    Nick Shinn design a very famous typeface for Canadian poetry? I just binned five
    years worth of design magazines in a fit of cleaning for the new year, so now
    I can't look it up. Closer to home, one mustn't forget Bruno Maag. His recent
    exhibition was quite impressive!
  created: '2007-01-06 07:22:31'
- author:
    name: jstypo
    picture: 112110
  body: "Surely you're not planning on passing up the opportunity to include Gutenberg's
    magnificent work[1] as a type designer?\r\n\r\n[1] http://prodigi.bl.uk/treasures/gutenberg/search.asp"
  created: '2007-01-06 16:51:44'
- author:
    name: Brown Fox
    picture: 111148
  body: "Thanks for all your substantial input! What I posted last night was quite
    spontaneous so I just updated the list (still incomplete - and uh, more than 20!)\r\nTim:
    I totally see your point of making more categories. But still I like the idea
    to have them in one running list. Like with all charts - there's something unsound
    about them. But still I can appreciate them for what they are, with all the personal
    distortion and historical inaccuracies.\r\nDavid Thometz: Please complete your
    list one day! It obviously exceeds my knowledge and ambition with my top 20 list
    of today.\r\n\r\nThanks again."
  created: '2007-01-06 16:52:54'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Certainly Carol Twombly should be in the running, for Trajan, Charlemagne,
    Lithos, Adobe Caslon, and all the rest. However, she is indeed retired from type
    design, although she is still doing a bit of consulting/reviewing of extensions
    to her earlier work.\r\n\r\nMorris Fuller Benton, Hermann Zapf and Robert Slimbach
    would certainly be on my own list of the top 20 type designers of all time.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-01-06 21:44:27'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "I suggest you move Ephram \"Edward\" Benguiat off your <em>Dead</em> list
    and place him among the living, otherwise he might get p.o.-ed!\r\n\r\nLast I
    knew he was still on the faculty at <a href=\"http://www.schoolofvisualarts.edu/ug/index.jsp?sid0=1&sid1=11&page_id=17\"
    target=\"new\">SVA</a>."
  created: '2007-01-06 23:16:41'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Bruce Rogers isn't anywhere on the list yet is he?
  created: '2007-01-06 23:20:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanx for the bigup, Nigella!\r\nAs Si says, listism is a waste of time.\r\nAnd
    speaking of time, perhaps a few places amongst the top 20 of all time should be
    reserved for those yet to be born. "
  created: '2007-01-06 23:23:03'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I would cast my vote for Frantisek Storm, but I agree it would be a good
    idea to limit the list to dead figures.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2007-01-07 02:28:58'
- author:
    name: steifar
    picture: 112105
  body: "... and therefore limiting a man like Frutiger from being called one \u201Cof
    the 20 most important type designers of all time\u201C. That makes absoulutely
    no sense. \r\n\r\nBut a little common sense should be in order. How about limiting
    to people with an actual legacy. That would cut almost everyone out of the living
    list."
  created: '2007-01-07 14:58:39'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "You see, that's the trick. Design one typeface that becomes ubiquitous, and
    ride off into the sunset as one of the greatest type designers of all time. How
    hard can that be?\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, who do you think has created the <cite>most</cite>
    typefaces? Benguiat has created, what? 600 typefaces according to SVA's website?
    As much as some might not like it, but Ray Larabie would be up there also.\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-01-07 21:04:40'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>...he has the distinction of having been persecuted by the Nazi\u2019s
    for having designed it in the first place.</em>\r\n\r\nHold your ideological horses
    here. I do not want to divert from the topic, but Paul Renner certainly did not
    get persecuted for having designed a typeface. Don't give the Nazis that much
    credit. Renner wrote about \"cultural bolchevism\", which was directed at the
    Nazis more than at the real Bolcheviks, and he altogether didn't make much of
    a secret of his opinion about the Nazi party, especially their disdain of contemporary
    art and culture. That's why they sacked him from his teaching post. He never got
    \"persecuted\". Saying that insults those who paid with their lives for having
    critized the Nazis. "
  created: '2007-01-08 02:35:47'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "It feels like this is two lists fighting. One, the top 20 designers of important
    typefaces, the other, the top 20 most important people in type design culture.
    I am by no means equipped to suggest 20 people for either, but I think that some
    simple statement of what \"important\" means here might help the list read as
    more than ...famousness?\r\n\r\nHelvetica is an important font, by ubiquity alone,
    so Miedinger surely makes the first list. Because of that face's influence on
    other fonts and type proportions and perceptions in general, he perhaps should
    be on both. Larabie would be an example of someone I find \"list-level\" important
    for all the reasons NJPatrick is probably thinking of. His merit is not necessarily
    one insanely popular singular face, but his style, prolific work and influence
    on the masses and fledgling designers."
  created: '2007-01-08 06:41:33'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Any type designer is an important type designer IMO, since there seem to be
    so few...
  created: '2007-01-09 03:00:19'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Hear Hear!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cheers_5874.jpg]"
  created: '2007-01-09 08:57:25'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "Unfortunately we have so many names and limited criteria for selection. Legacy
    may not be the issue. Johann Friedrich Unger, who applied the neo-classical style
    and engraving expertise of Firmin Didot to fraktur, is certainly an important
    type designer and one of the first to try to resolve the differences between German
    and Latin type design and typographic practice. However, black letter seems to
    hold little sway in the list. \r\n\r\nAnother important designer was Adolph Rusch
    who holds the historical priority for a roman type face\u2014he was printing a
    roman as early as 1464. The face isn't very pretty, so he is an important type
    designer, but not a very good one when compared with those, like Griffo, who follow
    him.\r\n\r\nWilliam Morris/Edward Prince falls into a similar category. The Golden
    Type was one of the most influential of the 19th century, but doesn't hold a candle
    to the Venetian revival faces that quickly followed. Morris' disciple, Edward
    Johnston, is certainly an important figure in the history of type design, but
    much more for the effect his revival of the art of the letter had on other designers
    than in the direct contributions he made as a designer of types.\r\n\r\nThe relationship
    of Linn Boyd Benton to his son provides an example that might guide selection.
    Without Linn Boyd's invention of the pantographic/engraving process, which Matthew
    Carter has called the most important invention in the history of typographic design
    since the 15th century, most of the type designs and type design processes that
    occur after c. 1880 would have much different. Benton's work on Century with De
    Vinne certainly qualifies him as a designer, but the greater breadth of his son's
    work qualifies Morris Fuller Benton as the more important designer."
  created: '2007-01-09 16:03:27'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "I am way late to the discussion, but I would think that \"importance\" in
    type design would be that which influences the evolution of type design signficantly.\r\n\r\nAnd
    if you're going to assign 20 spots, you shd stick to 20. Otherwise it's 50 or
    100 or 200, and then ...\r\n\r\n1\u20136: Gutenberg, Jenson, Garamond, Griffo,
    Arrighi & Fournier for sure\r\n7: Baskerville, Bodoni & Didot have to duke it
    out \r\n8: Caslon (for the first sans),\r\n9: maybe Koch for advancements in blackletter
    (though perhaps someone else was more influential?)\r\n10: Miedinger shd wrestle
    G\xFCnter Gerhard Lange (Akzidenz Grotesk, 1896)\r\n11: maybe Paul Renner\r\n12:
    Eric Gill\r\n13: Wim Crouwel (please don't tell me I'm the only one who mentioned
    him. I mean C'mawn!)\r\n14: Zuzana Licko for Emigre 8\r\n15: Someone  in the past
    20 yrs shd be held responsible for digitally merging faces together.\r\n16: Someone
    else shd be held responsible for the new digital forms in text faces. Those weird,
    choppy shapes that I think of as Dutch. That's significant, I think.\r\n\r\nby
    my count there's 4 spots left.\r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2007-01-12 07:18:42'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>Miedinger shd wrestle G\xFCnter Gerhard Lange (Akzidenz Grotesk, 1896)</em>\r\n\r\nAs
    GGL was born in 1921, he could hardly have designed AG on his own. His involvement
    started in 1957, when he added a new series of weights and sizes, called \u2013
    surprise! \u2013 Akzidenz Grotesk Serie 57. The light, regular and some bolder
    weights started appearing between the 1890s and the 1920s. All of them apocryphal
    designs, what Berthold called \u201CHausschnitt\u201D, i.e. cut in house. Lange\u2019s
    main contribution, apart from the AG development over 20 years and three technologies,
    was Concorde, the better Times. And his Bodoni Old Face from the late 70s was
    the first <em>real</em> Bodoni, not a sanitized version like all the others before."
  created: '2007-01-12 08:39:33'
- author:
    name: brett jordan
    picture: 112129
  body: I'd add Rian Hughes... his type has a brilliant mixture of originality, fun
    and legibility.
  created: '2007-01-12 08:42:33'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>his type has a brilliant mixture of originality, fun and legibility</em>\r\n\r\nWhile
    i agree with that assessment of Rian\u2019s work (and we published his first faces
    over 15 years ago), the list would be more than 200 names long if we only used
    these criteria (the FontFont library alone has 150 contributors). You do not design
    a classic; time, talent and economics need to come together to do that. Helvetica
    was a fairly mediocre cleaning-up of Scheltersche Grotesk via Haasche Grotesk,
    and Miedinger was a salesman, not a designer. His drawings were pretty basic,
    but the face hit a nerve: in 1957, postwar Europe was ready for something clean,
    without a past and without obvious ancestry, coming out of neutral Switzerland.
    The same applied to most faces that represent a period now; Garamond, Baskerville,
    Caslon, Bodoni, Akzidenz Grotesk, Futura, Gill, Helvetica.\r\n Some of Roger Excoffon's
    typefaces are amazing, but they always looked too French to really be a world-wide
    success. AvantGarde Gothic was a sensation when it came out, but nobody would
    call it a good typeface. Neither would we regard most ITC designs from the 70s,
    but they were seminal in their influence. Zuzana Licko\u2019s first Emigre bitmap
    fonts more than 20 years ago hardly qualify as type design by most standards,
    but they are now true classics.\r\n\r\nAnd these days? We have more talented type-designers
    than ever before. They know both their history and their tools, and they make
    better type than any of the famous names mentioned above. But their chance to
    make history is minimal. I think that is great, because I do not consider us to
    be artists, but visual engineers who serve those people who use our typefaces:
    readers and designers. "
  created: '2007-01-12 09:09:52'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'So, perhaps, to be on this list it should (a) be bumped to maybe top 50 type
    designers, and (b) include well their fonts sold. I include (b) because it occurs
    to me that the audience should be allowed to be involved in how these people get
    on the list. Shouldn''t they? '
  created: '2007-01-15 21:07:46'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Van Gogh didn't sell a single painting in his entire life, ended up killing
    himself due to depression and other mental health issues, and was posthumously
    declared one of the most important painters of all time.\r\n\r\nSo the answer
    is... Maybe.\r\n\r\nPicasso self-admittedly sold out his artistic heritage because
    of popular demand. He admitted that many of the things he was doing were purely
    because that's what the critics and others wanted. He was declared one of the
    most important painters of all time during his own life span.\r\n\r\nSo the answer
    is... Maybe.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-17 10:28:41'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "\"I\u2019m trying to compile a list of the 20 most important type designers
    of all time.\"\r\n\r\nIn Germany since around two years the TV guys offer more
    and more 'Best of..' shows. 'Best commercials of the last 10 years', 'Best 100
    comedy shows of the century' up to 'Worst celebraties of the world' (No. 1 was
    Paris Hilton by the way).\r\n\r\nI always try to see a font in close connection
    with the epoche it was designed. Otherwise you see all these old fonts with only
    'modern' eyes. What today is 'old-fashioned' in the past was 'Moderne Fraktur':\r\nhttp://www.bleisetzer.de/index.php?target=shop/shop_details&artikel_id=355&b=0004&pic=a\r\n\r\nAnd
    the marketing guys who created this name for the font, brought it to the point..
    of 1886. Of course they did not want to design an old-fashioned font.\r\n\r\nIts
    the same with the font artists of today. The answers they give are answers for
    questions of today. Do we know what a GG Lange or Paul Renner would say about
    one of the fonts of today? May be they'ld say its not possible to use it (in 1936),
    because the market would'nt accept it.\r\n\r\nSo: 'If you want to know who you
    are, you have to know where you're coming from.' And so a best-of-list may be
    is a funny thing, but not realy important, isn't it?\r\n \r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-17 12:08:56'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Well put Georg.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-17 13:14:35'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>15: Someone in the past 20 yrs shd be held responsible for digitally
    merging faces together.\r\n</em>\r\nIs that a truly innovative thing, or a mode
    that has existed for some time. Are you referring to the smooth merger of two
    similar faces, or that look where it seems like the trademarks of two faces have
    been smashed into a postmodern hybrid? Who's on the short list?\r\n<em>\r\n16:
    Someone else shd be held responsible for the new digital forms in text faces.
    Those weird, choppy shapes that I think of as Dutch. That\u2019s significant,
    I think.\r\n</em>\r\n\r\nI cannot visualize one off the top of my head, but I
    am intrigued. Anyone have example faces of the genre?\r\n\r\n<em>I mean for this
    to be answerable by anone, not just the person who wrote it. I just read who posted
    these. Someone who probably should be on the list or, at very least, on <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/20583\">this
    one</a>.</em>\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The
    Snark</a>"
  created: '2007-01-18 04:03:51'
- author:
    name: NOLAdani
    picture: 117526
  body: paula scher
  created: '2009-08-21 00:24:21'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Isn\u2019t Manfred Klien more prolific than Larabie?\r\n\r\n****Tobias Frere
    Jones and Jonathan Hoefler\r\n\r\nSorry 20 isn\u2019t gonna cut it."
  created: '2009-08-21 01:02:30'
- author:
    name: qu1j0t3
    picture: 109648
  body: Seriously, give up now. Your list will never be 'right' whether it's 20 or
    200. Just make a list of those who are important to *you*; top-N lists always
    suck (just look at imdb.com's best movies of all time for an example).
  created: '2009-08-21 01:24:17'
- author:
    name: qu1j0t3
    picture: 109648
  body: '@Choz - I think some of Smeijers'' work would fit (Quadraat) or Majoor''s
    Scala. Jan Middendorp''s book is probably the ultimate reference to the ''style''.'
  created: '2009-08-21 01:27:25'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Oops. Danielle, Paula isn''t a type designer. '
  created: '2009-08-21 01:29:39'
- author:
    name: E.Jacobson
    picture: 114464
  body: "Questions:\r\n\r\nWhy 20? Why not 64? It's a big world. Why are we obsessed
    with lists which deify? It's an unrealistic/idealistic act. What is the standard
    by which we may deem one more important than another? What is the determining
    process by which I may conclude that one person is a type designer and another
    is not? \r\n\r\nMore importantly, do we have the authority/perspective to forge
    such doctrine? \r\n\r\nApologies for the angst-like deconstructive criticism.
    But damn if I don't feel like \"Top-10 syndrome\" is the heartbeat of the internet.\r\nThis
    thread is very troll-able. Hope I'm not doing so. :)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-21 01:59:17'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Some people are list prone. I don't think this is a bad thing. And there
    is no reason each person can't keep their own list with their own number. \r\n\r\nAnd
    keep in mind this thread was started in 2007 way before all of the \"top 10 most
    inspiring typography sites\" started boring us all to tears. ;^P"
  created: '2009-08-21 21:52:23'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "<em>More importantly, do we have the authority/perspective to forge such
    doctrine?</em>\r\n\r\nOf course this list is subjective and open for debate. This
    <em>is</em> Typophile. ;^)"
  created: '2009-08-21 21:53:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Top 10 typophile threads that should stay closed?
  created: '2009-08-21 22:05:02'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: LOL
  created: '2009-08-22 00:03:31'
- author:
    name: qu1j0t3
    picture: 109648
  body: "\"Of course this list is subjective and open for debate.\"\r\n\r\nThe problem
    is that there can be no list that satisfies the criteria; the objective is futile.
    Top-N lists do not reach consensus and have very little value.\r\n\r\nChange the
    criteria and the problem is ameliorated. For example, \"my top 20 favourite type
    designers,\" or \"the 20 type designers I consider most significant\" are quite
    achievable lists. Do that instead.\r\n\r\n@bleachmilk - it's a perpetual-motion
    troll machine. I too have succumbed :-("
  created: '2009-08-22 04:48:02'
- author:
    name: John Boardley
    picture: 112920
  body: Gerard Unger should be added to the list of the living.
  created: '2009-08-25 13:46:06'
- author:
    name: RogerBlack
    picture: 112203
  body: "And . . . \r\nRobert Hunter Middleton\r\nAldo Novarese\r\nChauncey Griffith\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd
    . . .  also among the living!\r\nJim Parkinson\r\nChristian Schwartz\r\nRichard
    Lipton\r\n\r\nNext, a list of type development directors!\r\nAaron Burns\r\nMike
    Parker\r\nStanley Morrison\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-08-25 14:35:47'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Type directors get a club, we don't need a list :-)
  created: '2009-08-25 14:49:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hmm, <em>my</em> entirely subjective list of Most Important Type Designers
    of All Time only runs to six members:\r\n\r\nNick Shinn\r\nN.W. Shinn\r\nNicholas
    Shinn\r\nNicholas William Shinn\r\nNicky Shinn\r\nMr Shinn"
  created: '2009-08-25 17:32:59'
- author:
    name: seml
    picture: 110996
  body: I believe that there's a problem in the criteria of selection. If you think
    of work of a life time, names like Frutiger, Zapf or Fuller Benton may appear,
    but if you're thinking about contributions that may have influenced largely in
    the history of typography and typeface design and innovation, then names like
    Jenson (first "roman"), Griffo(first italic), Garamond (First slanted caps), Eric
    Gill and Hans Meyer(humanist sans) Sumner Stone (family), Benton(again)(gothic
    style and family), Otl Aicher (family), Frutiger (again)(grid and family), Miedinger/Hoffmann
    (most popular) would make sense. Stablish the criteria first, otherwise you'll
    have preference and speculation. Some may agree with with quite a few, but the
    number 20 will become a problem...
  created: '2009-08-25 17:37:06'
- author:
    name: pixiegurljb
  body: Im new here, but a top 20 would have a lot of subjective picks. I see many
    greats on the list and some people have mentioned below. It would be good if there
    was a more open list.
  created: '2009-09-01 02:02:14'
- author:
    name: dojr2
  body: "I am not sure where to draw the line & who should be in the 20, but two of
    my favourite type designers are missing: Cassandre (for Peignot, Acier, etc.)
    & Xavier Dupr\xE9 (I need not mention why, I suppose?). I am surprised to see
    how long it took to name Baskerville and Fournier!"
  created: '2010-05-10 15:25:24'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Kent Lew for Whitman\r\n\r\nJos Buivenga for Calluna\r\n\r\nJames Montalbano
    for Clearview [Highway] in all it's forms\r\n\r\nAdrian Frutiger for Frutiger,
    Univers, and Avenir\r\n\r\nJean Fran\xE7ois Porchez for Parisine/Plus\r\n\r\nLuc(as)
    de Groot for TheSans\r\n\r\nWere it not for the screwed-up naming conventions,
    I'd nominate Joshua Darden's Freight Text"
  created: '2010-05-10 16:59:14'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "I forgot Mikl\xF3s Kis"
  created: '2010-05-11 21:55:42'
- author:
    name: Robert Trogman
    picture: 111573
  body: Please don't forget Jan Van Krimpen (deceased)
  created: '2010-05-12 23:29:28'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Basically, I don't think it makes sense to think about such a list when you
    are considering typefaces coming out of such different eras of print, and thus
    out of radically different views and technologies.\r\nToday we can talk of \"a
    Garamond\" or \"a Bodoni\". There were no such things at the time of Garamond
    and Bodoni. And there shouldn\u2019t be neither now. :)"
  created: '2011-07-21 12:49:37'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I could conceive of a list of the 20 or 50 greatest type designers of all
    time.\r\n\r\nAfter all, if one writes a book on the history of typography, one
    is exercising a process of selection.\r\n\r\nBut a list of the <strong>most important</strong>
    type designers of all time as distinct from a list of the greatest type designers
    of all time... that raises a new question.\r\n\r\nDoes it mean a list of the <em>most
    influential</em> type designers of all time? If so, clearly Jenson and Aldus get
    to be on the list, as well as Caslon. Paul Renner would make the list as well.\r\n\r\nBut
    if one actually wants to draw a distinction between most important and most influential...\r\n\r\nThe
    BAMS codebook used by British merchant ships in World War II was set in the roman
    designed by Alexander Phemister. Did this result in a saving of eyestrain that
    helped win the war, making him one of the most important type designers of all
    time?\r\n\r\nThat is a facetious example, but I think you can see what I'm getting
    at. If one is defining \"importance\" in an open-ended way, to include impact
    on the outside world, one is venturing into very uncharted territory."
  created: '2011-07-21 22:40:56'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Wouldn't whoever was the first type designer be the most important one?
  created: '2011-07-22 15:27:17'
- author:
    name: matt_yow
    picture: 119424
  body: Brown Fox, in your original post you've misspelled Matthew Carter with 1 /t/.
  created: '2011-07-22 16:02:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Evert Bloemsma.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-06-01 03:16:05'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: .
  created: '2014-06-01 12:53:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "No Robert Slimbach, really?\r\n\r\nThere are a number of younger type designers
    who could die tomorrow and be named to the list, yet somehow we don't name them
    now. Funny that."
  created: '2014-06-03 03:15:26'
date: '2007-01-05 20:51:15'
title: 20 most important type designers of all time

---
