---
author:
  name: IP
body: "Man there is so much to learn....after you thought you already knew all there
  was to know! How humbling this website is!\r\n\r\nThat is me grovling to you guys-
  how have you learned all of this!!!! Anyways, here is my question.\r\n\r\nDoes the
  font file format truly matter in printing nowadays? Here is a convoluted example,
  if you see anywhere there could be a problem please tell me. \r\n\r\nLet's say I
  am creating something like a flyer using any typical font found on my computer.
  I test it on my Canon pixma ink jet printer, then I take it to work and test it
  on their HP Laser printer. After these two tests I then take the project- which
  I assume is in fine printing order to a print shop like Kinkos.  Then to a professional
  printer where they will run 5,000 copies.  \r\n\r\nDo you think there would be any
  printing difficulties during any of these steps? If I use a certain font file, could
  I expect a problem anywere?\r\n\r\nI here of projects getting canned at the printers
  because of an issue. I am trying to learn whatever I need to know before this would
  happen. Confusing???  I agree! HELP!\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "If you use PDF, it doenst really matter.\r\nIf you provide an open document,
    like a InDesign/Quark file and you are using, for example, an Apple T1 font or
    something like that, then that could give problems if the printer is using Windows.
    They wouldn't be able to use the font. Or vice versa of course.\r\n\r\nIs that
    what you mean with problems?"
  created: '2007-01-17 17:30:24'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: You need to make sure that you include both the screen and printer fonts when
    you deliver the file (if Quark or InDesign). In Illustrator you can "create outlines"
    and in any of these apps you can create a pdf with the fonts embedded (which may
    send the EULA police after you).
  created: '2007-01-17 18:07:52'
- author:
    name: IP
  body: "You both hit on the very two points I am confused about :) THANKS! :)  I
    \ want my prints to be fully legal and to work- explanation below. \r\n\r\nIf
    I create a design using a stock font (could have come from anywhere, as there
    are 5,000 on this computer- ranging from O,T, A, font file types) how do I know
    they will print on from every computer and output device?  If it is illegal to
    include the fonts for the pritner to install them...then I don't know how this
    works. \r\n\r\nIs saving the file as a pdf so the font is now embedded(which I
    am assuming means  rendering the font neutral and unloadbale to those viewing
    it digitally-thusly \"safe\" from being pirated) illegal?\r\n\r\nHow do I include
    the screen and printer fonts?\r\n\r\nWhere do I find the EULA for fonts already
    installed (and I don't know where they came from- checked the font folder...no
    info on EULA)?\r\n\r\nTell me what to do here. Once a person steps into the commercial
    realm where they truly want to be legal, I am finding that things are extremely
    complicated when it comes to fonts. HELP!"
  created: '2007-01-17 19:11:38'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "LOL they are complicated. I'm not sure there's such a thing as a \"stock\"
    font (except the ones that come bundled with the OS or software and see the comment
    above on that). So you need to at least try to figure out where the fonts come
    from, i.e. what foundry, and then look up the EULA on their site.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    including screen and printer fonts, as above you can embed fonts into a pdf and
    avoid this step, however in Quark you do \"Collect for Output\" and in Indesign
    it's Preflight."
  created: '2007-01-17 19:20:58'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: And it you send it as a .pdf, keep it as big as you can (i.e., don't downsample
    the graphics) to ensure best quality.  I'm about to head over to Staples to pick
    up a job I send them yesterday that's colour, double-sided legal, and worked out
    to be a 28MB file.
  created: '2007-01-17 19:31:25'
- author:
    name: IP
  body: "The ones that come with the computer are what I mean by stock fonts. I know
    others have come with programs over the years, some from cheapy purchased font
    packs from best buy, some from those free online sites. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-17 21:33:47'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>After these two tests I then take the project- which I assume is in
    fine printing order to a print shop like Kinkos.</em>\r\n\r\nI just went to Kinkos
    the other day, to print a PDF document. Awkwardly, printing from one workstation
    was fine, as the type in black came out sharp, but printing the same file from
    another workstation and the same piece of text came out all rasterized. Never
    figured out what was wrong, since I was printing the same file with the exact
    same settings. My guess is that the printer driver installed was different between
    the two computers.\r\nThis goes to illustrate that things are sometimes not as
    straight forward as we'd like."
  created: '2007-01-17 21:50:43'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "When it comes to Kinkos nothing is straightforward. That place is one of
    the circles in hell. I remember when I was just starting out before I'd bought
    all my equipment I had to go to three Kinkos to find one with a working Mac, a
    working printer, and a person who had the remotest idea how their network was
    set up.\r\n\r\nAnd to bring the conversation full circle, the last time I went
    to a Kinkos they wouldn't let me load fonts (temporarily of course) into Fontbook
    which means that the only way to print a doc is to make a pdf. This then violates
    the EULA. They already had a bunch of fonts in Fontbook and I sincerely doubt
    they had licensed all of them."
  created: '2007-01-17 22:25:46'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Miguel - could it be a RAM problem?
  created: '2007-01-18 08:59:07'
- author:
    name: IP
  body: "Hey guys!\r\n\r\nYou are all great! :) \r\n\r\nThose kind of quirks are what
    I am talking about! I have printed at all sorts of little hole in the wall places
    and the experiences haven't been very pleasing. From being charged $5-$15 just
    to load a CD to help that are computer-phobic to what all else.  I am asking all
    of these questions to try to make the process as smooth as possible.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-18 20:48:37'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Well I guess that is the way it works when it comes to print shops. Just
    'shop around' the different places. I did that over here, and compared them. See
    what kind of equipment they have, prices, and what kind of people work there.
    And of course quality of print. I chose the best one from the ones I tried, and
    I usually go to that one now if I need anything printed. \r\n\r\nBut there is
    always going to be unpredictable things with different file formats, fonts, etc.
    But PDF usually works fine."
  created: '2007-01-18 22:28:44'
- author:
    name: IP
  body: "So my answer is PDF. \r\n\r\nAwesome! Thanks :)\r\n\r\nBy the way- the one
    and only print place in my hometown told me not to flatten my images and bring
    them in in their native format (mostly PSD).  What should I do about the font? "
  created: '2007-01-19 02:32:04'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>how have you learned all of this!!!!</em>\r\n\r\nExperience is a great
    teacher, IP.  :-)\r\n\r\nTo the other comments here I would add, be prepared for
    things to go wrong. If you can, burn all of the fonts, images, files, etc. for
    the job on a CD before you leave home, to save yourself some headaches.\r\n\r\nThis
    saved me one time when I found a typo on a PDF I had burned to a CD, and I was
    already at Kinko's. Having the font files with me let me fix the mistake in Acrobat
    before printing that particular page."
  created: '2007-01-19 05:07:48'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"You need to make sure that you include both the screen and printer fonts
    when you deliver the file (if Quark or InDesign).\"\r\n\r\nPatty is making a couple
    of assumptions: that you are using a Mac, and that you are using Type 1 (\"PostScript\")
    fonts. If these two things are true, then her advice is sound.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-01-19 05:36:13'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: If you are planning to be a designer you ought to be using a Mac!
  created: '2007-01-19 16:42:07'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: 'One former client of mine has the "creative" department on Macs, but has
    switched everyone else over to PCs, including the department that cranks out most
    of the print material: go figure.  At least they upgraded everyone to CS2 at the
    same time....'
  created: '2007-01-19 16:49:17'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "pattyfab: <em>\"If you are planning to be a designer you ought to be using
    a Mac!\"</em>\r\n\r\nWhy?\r\n\r\nI don't mean to be rude or facetious (or prompt
    a huge debate) but would just like to hear a few key reasons why you think Mac
    is better than PC for a designer."
  created: '2007-01-19 18:39:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">but would just like to hear a few key reasons why you think Mac is better
    than PC for a designer.\r\n\r\n1. The other designers hanging out in the independent
    organic coffee shop will laugh at you. The more fragile designers may even choke
    on their granola, and you wouldn\u2019t want that on your conscience would you?
    \r\n2. Clients will be more willing to pay you larger fees to support your Mac
    habit.\r\n3. It matches your iPod\r\n4. \"Bootcamp\" it up and you get all the
    benefits of Windows ownership while retaining 1, 2 and 3. \r\n\r\nIt's a slam
    dunk, no? \r\n"
  created: '2007-01-19 18:51:03'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Hey, IP, I have to amend what I said about experience being a great teacher
    -- making mistakes isn't the only way to learn! So I have some book recommendations
    for you, in case you are looking for some handy manuals on digital print production.
    \r\n\r\nI don't mean to overwhelm you with choices, here, I just want to give
    you an idea of what's out there. It's probably best to go to a bookstore and look
    through some or all of these books, if you have that possibility, before actually
    buying one of them. Also, I can't comment on all of these, since I don't have
    all of them myself. But they're out there.\r\n\r\n<strong><a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Pocket-Pal-Little-Graphic-Production/dp/0883624885/sr=8-2/qid=1169232118/ref=pd_bbs_sr_2/104-9672182-5386346?ie=UTF8&s=books\"
    target=\"_blank\">Pocket Pal</a></strong> This is a cheap guide that gets updated
    every now and then by International Paper. It turns up at used bookstores quite
    often, so if you go that route, be sure to get a recent edition which covers digital
    prepress.\r\n\r\n<strong><a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Forms-Folds-Sizes-Details-Designers/dp/1592530540/sr=8-9/qid=1169232118/ref=pd_bbs_9/104-9672182-5386346?ie=UTF8&s=books\"
    target=\"_blank\">Forms, Folds and Sizes</a></strong> One of those handy reference
    books that has specs for almost everything.\r\n\r\n<strong><a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Mac-Designers-Handbook-Alastair-Campbell/dp/0004126386/sr=1-2/qid=1169232875/ref=sr_1_2/104-9672182-5386346?ie=UTF8&s=books\"
    target=\"_blank\">The Mac Designer's Handbook</a></strong> This is not available
    right now, according to Amazone, but I see it at used bookshops now and then.\r\n\r\n<strong><a
    href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Getting-Printed-Printers-Services-Schedule/dp/1581805772/sr=8-7/qid=1169232118/ref=pd_bbs_7/104-9672182-5386346?ie=UTF8&s=books\"
    target=\"_blank\">Getting It Printed</a></strong>\r\n\r\n<strong><a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Getting-Right-Print-Prepress-Designers/dp/081099206X/sr=8-8/qid=1169232118/ref=pd_bbs_8/104-9672182-5386346?ie=UTF8&s=books\"
    target=\"_blank\">Getting it Right in Print</a></strong>\r\n\r\n<strong><a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Official-Adobe-Print-Publishing-Second/dp/0321304667/sr=8-10/qid=1169232732/ref=pd_bbs_10/104-9672182-5386346?ie=UTF8&s=books\"
    target=\"_blank\">Official Adobe Print Publishing Guide</a></strong> We had an
    early version of this at a magazine I once worked for. I think it came with our
    copy of Photoshop, and it was really great. I'm glad that it's available as an
    independent publication now.\r\n\r\n<strong><a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Graphic-Designers-Print-Color-Handbook/dp/1592531911/sr=1-4/qid=1169232875/ref=sr_1_4/104-9672182-5386346?ie=UTF8&s=books\"
    target=\"_blank\">Graphic Designer's Print and Color Handbook</a></strong>"
  created: '2007-01-19 19:14:32'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Mac is what the design community uses, for the most part. This means that
    most printshops are set up to receive Mac files, most of the design apps were
    created with Mac OS in mind (altho are now available for PC too),  your workflow
    will be smoother. It seems if you try to go forward on a PC as a designer you'll
    always be playing catch-up. If you're not a designer but just want to do the odd
    design project you'll probably be fine w/a PC but otherwise I'd go with Mac. They
    aren't that much more expensive anymore either.\r\n\r\nThey are much more intuitive
    and fun to use.\r\n\r\nYou'll get more spot on advice on this forum.\r\n\r\nBesides
    it will look much cooler on your desk."
  created: '2007-01-19 19:46:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Adobe CS and PDF are the great equalizers, and once CS3 hits the street MacTel
    early adopters won't have to suffer any more - http://typophile.com/node/30579
    - blub ;-)
  created: '2007-01-19 20:13:24'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\u201CIf you are planning to be a designer you ought to be using a Mac!\u201D\r\n\r\nYou
    ought to be using a Mac. Period. ;o)\r\n\r\nThat said, the OS really doesn't matter
    in terms of success in the industry. You'll do fine with either. Many of us prefer
    the Mac, but don't think you need a Mac.\r\n\r\nIf your printer 'only accepts
    Mac files' then find a better, more competant printer.\r\n\r\nPatty is right about
    them looking cooler, though."
  created: '2007-01-19 21:49:40'
- author:
    name: adnix
    picture: 109591
  body: InDesign also lets you convert a font to outlines like Illustrator, though
    for a multipage document with a lot of text, that will probably result in a huge
    file.
  created: '2007-01-20 00:37:13'
- author:
    name: IP
  body: "I love you guys!\r\n\r\nI could explain my whole personal history so you
    know where I am coming from on all of this but that is a book unto itself that
    would be quite pointless to read.\r\n\r\nThe Mac vs. PC thing has been a large
    part of my life. I have used both, love both- I had a PC custom built for me.
    \ \r\n\r\nGetting it Right in Print- I HAVE THIS BOOK AND I LOVE IT :) \r\nThat
    book has actually spawned many of these questions for me.\r\n\r\nAs for some of
    these questions....I live in a rural setting and have \"art folk\" to chat with.
    You guys are fulfilling that need, so you have no idea my gratitude. I have been
    reading many of the posts on here and posting like crazy.  \r\n\r\nI am mostly
    jittery about transitioning from small local owned copy shop type places and working
    with huge printing press operations. I read of soooooooooo many problems that
    I am researching and working like mad to keep building to my skill set. I went
    to college but as many of you know, this stuff isn't commonly taught at the liberal
    arts level. Now that comment is not to spark controversy about education and so
    forth(as some places are better than others, and there are different methods of
    doing things), I am simply trying to fill holes in my knowledge base.\r\n\r\nThe
    most important thing I have learned is that TYPOGRAPHY IS COMPLICATED. Sounds
    like common sense... \r\n\r\nLots more questions to pick your brains with. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Thylacine
      picture: 112146
    body: "Quote from IP: <em><strong>I am mostly jittery about transitioning from
      small local owned copy shop type places and working with huge printing press
      operations.</strong></em>\r\n\r\nThere's no need for the jitters. \r\n\r\nNeighborhood
      copy shops fill an important niche, but they're staffed mostly with relatively
      untrained and short-term employees who work in an environment set up to service
      the messy needs of the general public. In other words, it's frequently chaotic
      and uneven.\r\n\r\nGood professional printers (that use presses, not copy machines)
      are staffed with career professionals and craftsmen who have learned their trade
      through years of experience. Specialists within these printing companies handle
      various parts of the job. The prepress people, for example, will analyze your
      job, look at all your files, make sure it will work, and provide you with high-quality
      proofs for you to approve before your job even makes it to the press. In other
      words, they're trained and experienced in spotting problems &#8212; that's part
      of their jobs.\r\n\r\nIf you use professional-level software tools and know
      how to use them, you should have few problems in working with printers. Just
      make sure that you provide them with <em>all</em> the files &#8212; fonts, graphics,
      photos, etc. Quark and InDesign have preflight and packaging functions that
      error-check your job and automate the file collection. If you send inappropriate
      files to printers (MSWord, WordPerfect, PowerPoint, RGB, etc.), you can expect
      problems.\r\n\r\nMost printers prefer to receive high-resolution, press-quality
      PDFs because it saves them time. The best printers will give you detailed specifications
      on preparing PDFs to meet their particular needs. I usually supply printers
      with both a high-resolution PDF, plus all the files for the job and a laser
      printout.\r\n\r\nKeep in mind, though, that printing companies tend to specialize
      in particular types of jobs. It takes some experience and calling around to
      find just the right printer for the job. But even here, good printers have specialists
      who will provide you with bids, advice, information and technical suggestions.
      I regularly work with huge, printers who print only books and magazines on high
      volume web presses, but I also work regularly with smaller, short-run, sheet-feed
      printers who specialize in high-quality smaller offset jobs. You just need to
      call around to various printers and talk to other designers about who they use
      and who they've been happy with for particular types of jobs. I have a handful
      of long-term relationships with printers that I know will consistently give
      me good value and good work. Good printers are always ready and willing to work
      with you, answer questions and provide you with personal tours of their shops
      to show you how it all works.\r\n\r\nOther things worth mentioning about fonts
      and printers... If you send all the fonts that are in the document, professional
      printers can handle it. (Most printers are platform neutral and deal with all
      the usual font formats equally well.) If you embed fonts in the PDF, that's
      great, but I always supply the fonts separately too &#8212; just in case. For
      example, sometimes there might be fonts in, say, a FreeHand file that you've
      imported into InDesign, and those fonts might get overlooked. If you convert
      the fonts to outlines, you obviously don't need to include the font files, but
      doing so eliminates the hinting found in the font files, which might make a
      difference (another subject). Also, there are copyright issues with fonts &#8212;
      you can't legally just give copies of them away. However, a printer can't print
      the job without the font data. If you run into a font whose copyright holder
      forbids sending their font to a printer or embedding it in a PDF file, you're
      dealing with a font that might not be legally usable in a practical sort of
      way."
    created: '2007-01-20 20:56:07'
  created: '2007-01-20 01:55:58'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "The ongoing Mac nonsense continues to baffle me. At this point it's a preference
    issue, nothing more, and even this is far too caught up in a mob-mentality, seeming
    blindness about Macs \"looking cooler.\" I just don't understand that one. Look
    at the last half-dozen Macs and, one at a time, they fall away as ridiculously
    dated (and difficult to upgrade) desk accessories (I mean, the first iMacs? Seriously?
    Or the current lot of them? Cool? Come on...). Sure, if you can afford a top-notch
    MacBookPro or a MacPro tower with a 23\" HD display, great, but there's nothing
    particularly \"cool\" about the more affordable gunk that Apple hangs out there
    for the fashionably desperate kids these days.\r\n\r\nI'm not denying that talented
    people with years of experience can produce stunning work using Macs, but the
    machine on the desk has little, very little to do with those abilities. The thing
    on the desk is just a thing on a desk. I work on both platforms, teaching on Macs
    because, for whatever reason, my university thinks this lends some kind of credibility
    to the program, but I have for years and still prefer to work on a PC. There's
    really nothing to that but a preference; I can get both machines to do what I'd
    like them to do. Beyond that, they're just wires and spinning disks.\r\n\r\nAs
    to print shops being \"set up to receive Mac files,\" I have not, in the past
    half-dozen years, had a single issue delivering PC files to a wide variety of
    commercial printers, both as PDFs and as full InDesign packages. That is, not
    a single issue <em>that was not due to a mistake on my part, which had nothing
    to do with the platform used to create the files.</em>\r\n\r\nIP, to actually
    address your post, stick to OpenType fonts and none of this will be an issue.
    If you can't stick to OpenType, it's time to do some research into the various
    other formats, with the goal of gaining an understanding of how they work, as
    opposed to simply looking for a quick answer to your current circumstances."
  created: '2007-01-20 01:59:30'
- author:
    name: IP
  body: "Jason, I appreciate your response.\r\n\r\nThat is exactly why I am doing
    all of this posting.\r\n\r\nThere is a lot of hype, brand loyalty, opinion driven
    preferences that may or may not actually benefit any given process or circumstance.
    \ It is difficult to get past personal opinions and dig to find the facts beneath
    them. One post will say this is the way to do it, the next will say this is better
    and the third will say neither are the actual professional standard. This is a
    nod to human nature, society and the way things are communicated.  \r\n\r\nReading
    all of the responses from various questions that I have posted over the past several
    days, one can start to grasp a greater understanding of typography, real world
    attitudes and share personal experiences. That kind of exploration into a new
    topic is something that a book can't touch and youth hasn't had an opportunity
    to explore yet.\r\n\r\nThese forums have added an extra dimension of education
    available to those who wish to pursue it. My ultimate goal is to understand as
    much as possible....It is true that nothing can quite replace experience, but
    experience comes with time. Time=age.  \r\n\r\nLifelong learner! :)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-20 02:40:55'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "IP, nice post. Keep'em coming.\r\n\r\nMy comment about OpenType is the same
    advice I give my students; the point is that keeping to OT you're likely going
    to end up using relatively well-made fonts with decent character sets that will
    allow you to expand your skills setting type. Yet that's no reason to avoid learning
    all you can about TrueType and PostScript fonts. Some might think these formats
    are next to dead (I'm one of those 'some'), but investigating what they are, how
    they're built, and what they were/are used for will only add to your general knowledge.\r\n\r\nTo
    my mind it's similar to printing letterpress with polymer: a whole world of options
    opens to you, but a solid understanding of setting metal type will add a depth
    and breadth to any designer/printer's abilities."
  created: '2007-01-20 06:52:30'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "I hate to get into a quasi-religious argument here, but Macs look cool because
    they are well-designed machines, from the inside out. And I mean the software,
    not just the hardware. Everything is made to work together from the get-go, which
    is why you can take it out of the box, plug it in, and it's ready to go.\r\n\r\nNotice
    that I'm not saying they're perfect or better, I'm just stating a fact: the software
    and hardware are designed to work together. Can you say that about PCs?"
  created: '2007-01-20 07:01:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "The original question:\r\n\"Let\u2019s say I am creating something like a
    flyer using any typical font found on my computer.\"\r\n\r\nThis is clearly a
    windows-oriented project: Take any font, make any flyer, take to any printer.
    Windows and TT's your path.\r\n\r\nSigh:\r\n\"1. The [] designers hanging out
    in the [] coffee shop will laugh at you.\"\r\n(Most Macintosh owners a. don't
    drink coffee, b. if they do they have their own coffee machine, or c. send someone
    out for it.)\r\n\r\nDo I need to continue? :)"
  created: '2007-01-20 15:17:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'My advice was based on personal experiences in the Seattle and San Jose areas
    - I can imagine things being different on the Vineyard. ;-) '
  created: '2007-01-20 16:44:42'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Ricardo, I would suggest we're talking philosophy more than religion. That
    is, you seem to be priveleging convenience, and convenience has it's merits. For
    example, convenience allows one to remain ignorant about how  a thing actually
    works, which, surely, allows one to focus on the task at hand. Yet that focus
    remains primarily task-oriented, rather than exploratory and question-oriented.
    To my mind the Mac philosophy is built on this sort of mentality: take the latest
    trendy bells & whistles, make them shiny, hide all the \"works\" (why confuse
    the ignorant consumer?), and jack up the price. It's the same mentality as the
    bottled water industry. Who needs to worry about where water comes from or how
    it impacts one's regional environment when you can buy it in a fancy container
    for a mark-up of only 1000% and all you have to do is twist the cap? This sort
    of convenience shifts the attention away from what's inside the container and
    locks in on the container itself, and if the fancier container is twice the price
    and has a cap that's easier to turn, well, that's the better bottle of water,
    right?\r\n\r\nAs my feedback to IP's post was meant to convey, I've always prefered
    to gain an understanding of how something works, rather than simply apply a surface-fix
    to a problem. I'm not suggesting that Macs are simply ornaments, but that the
    arguments in their favour tend to focus on the ornamental qualities. Again, these
    are all just machines we're talking about, nothing more. They are not important
    in the least except in what one is able to do with them, and what I'm suggesting
    is that a skilled & experienced user tends to be the one who wants to poke around
    in the works of the machine they're using (both hardware & software). \r\n\r\nLike
    I said, to my mind it's like the difference between polymer and setting metal
    type: the former is great and a lot of fun, but inserting brasses & coppers will
    produce a more educated, thoughtful and skilled typographer."
  created: '2007-01-20 18:09:05'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Jason, you can't possibly be saying that using a PC \"will produce a more
    educated, thoughtful and skilled typographer.\"\r\n\r\nWhile I freely admit a
    Mac bias for both functionality and aesthetics, I do acknowledge that the PC has
    played a nice game of catch-up, and that it's unquestionably possible to produce
    fine design on a PC. That said, I honestly don't see how you can argue its superiority
    over the Mac for design. If this were the case, then why has Bill Gates made such
    a concerted effort to imitate Mac OS and not the other way 'round? Why not just
    stick with DOS?\r\n\r\nThere will always be designers and production folks who
    make the extra effort to learn the inner workings of their machines. You certainly
    can't expect everybody to do that, however, and to say that being a tech-head
    makes you a better designer is absurd. The beauty of the Mac is that it is a much
    more intuitive machine - both hardware and software - and therefore more user-friendly
    to a designer who does NOT want or need to know how to disect it. I know plenty
    of extremely talented designers who simply know who to call when things aren't
    working on their computers. This takes nothing away from their skill as designers.\r\n\r\nAnd
    furthermore, how many PC-users do you know who have a deep and thoughtful knowledge
    of their machines?"
  created: '2007-01-20 18:42:38'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Sorry IP for what I've done to your thread when I said...\r\n\r\n<em>\"I
    don\u2019t mean to be rude or facetious (or prompt a huge debate) but would just
    like to hear a few key reasons why you think Mac is better than PC for a designer.\"</em>\r\n\r\n...but
    I thought it was relevant to your original question \"Does font file format really
    matter in printing?\".\r\n\r\nI think what has been said shows that choosing a
    platform is more to do with personal preference than any inherent benefits for
    working in design. And now, thanks to PDF, issues about file formats/missing fonts
    etc are no longer such a concern.\r\n\r\nI prefer my OS and software to look as
    neutral as possible so it doesn't taint the design I'm working on with any other
    aesthetic.\r\n\r\nI'm baffled as to why anyone would want to have their computer
    on their desk. I recommend leaving your desk space free for pencils and paper,
    beer and nuts, books and toys, fags and photos etc etc.\r\n\r\nComputers aren't
    cool or interesting. Put it on the floor and use it to keep your feet warm :)"
  created: '2007-01-20 21:22:30'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "IP, if you're gonna be a regular here I think you're missing the bigger and
    more important issue...\r\n\r\n...where's your User ID Pic?\r\n\r\nYou won't get
    anywhere in this business these days, sonny jim lad, without one damn impressive
    avatar. We're all waiting. No pressure.\r\n\r\n;)"
  created: '2007-01-20 21:38:01'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "I've just spotted a question that I don't think has been answered...\r\n\r\n<em>\"By
    the way- the one and only print place in my hometown told me not to flatten my
    images and bring them in in their native format (mostly PSD). What should I do
    about the font?\"</em>\r\n\r\nIn the past I've worked in print shops and litho
    printers and I can't recall any cirumstance when I would want a customer to supply
    a layered PSD file. If they were supplying pixel artwork I would want a 300dpi
    CMYK TIFF. No chance of me screwing up their job then.\r\n\r\nCan anyone else
    think of a reason for requesting an un-flatttend PSD or not wanting a PDF?\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Thylacine
      picture: 112146
    body: "Wormwood wrote: <em><strong>\"Can anyone else think of a reason for requesting
      an un-flatttend PSD or not wanting a PDF?\"</strong></em>\r\n\r\nThe only reason
      I can think of is if they were anticipating such a badly prepared set of files
      that they wanted the originals so that they could fix them or do the CMYK conversion
      themselves."
    created: '2007-01-20 23:06:40'
  created: '2007-01-20 21:50:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Jason, you can\u2019t possibly be saying that using a PC \u201Cwill produce
    a more educated, thoughtful and skilled typographer.\u201D\r\n\r\n90% of design
    is crap, and 90% of designers are using Macs - coincidence or herd mentality?
    ;-)"
  created: '2007-01-20 23:07:23'
- author:
    name: Thylacine
    picture: 112146
  body: "Is the acrimony that always accompanies the Mac vs. Windows debate really
    productive or even justified? Both platforms have pluses and minuses, but in the
    end they're just computers that do pretty much the same thing.\r\n\r\nI prefer
    Macs for several reasons, but I also have a Dell running XP sitting on my other
    desk. I have a couple of employees (both good designers) who prefer Windows, and
    I try to accommodate them. Most graphics apps are cross-platform and font incompatibilities
    are mostly a thing of the past. This debate is a little like bar patrons arguing
    over which beer is best or which team will take the series.\r\n\r\nAt one time
    Macs were clearly superior to Windows for desktop publishing, but today it largely
    boils down to whatever you feel most comfortable with. I mean, really, why this
    is still such a bone of contention is a mystery to me."
  created: '2007-01-20 23:47:33'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Patty, my last post has been popping into my mind periodically throughout
    the afternoon in that my analogies were all over the place, and that sort of sloppiness
    can ruin my day. I didn't mean to imply that PCs will make anyone a better anything
    -- one's skill depends only on one's desire to learn. (That said, I <em>do</em>
    think that setting metal type will make anyone a more thoughtful and skilled typographer).
    Ultimately the \"platform war\" is simply a preference issue which has nothing
    to do with any sort of skill, end of story. \r\n\r\nThat said, I suppose my defensive
    posture on this nonsensical matter is simply an irritation caused by the inanity
    of much pro-Mac gibberish I come across which seems to think that looking pretty
    is more than enough to ask of a computer.\r\n\r\nAnd that you thought I was arguing
    PCs' \"superiority over the Mac for design\" speaks to the fact that my last post
    was a mess. If anything my point was more along the lines of \"who cares what
    the bloody computer looks like?\"\r\n\r\nAs to the Mac being \"a much more intuitive
    machine ... and therefore more user-friendly,\" this is, of course, simply a matter
    of experience and temperament. I can see how some might find Macs more user-friendly,
    but I have always found moving around a PC much simpler. The OS organization is
    far more transparent and therefore, I find, easier to configure and customize.
    But that's just me.\r\n\r\nYou're right, too, that many folks, perhaps most, aren't
    all that interested in the guts of the machine and its software, and that such
    folks are no less \"designers\" than those interested in such things. It's just
    that to my mind \"designers\" sometimes tend to get lost in surface, because that's
    what they \"do\" (hence the somewhat hollow Mac bolstering that I find irritating).
    This is not a slag at people who design things, but I find that working on \"graphic
    design\" projects, projects that don't involve and/or require me to learn something
    new, something which requires effort, leave me feeling rather deflated at the
    end of the day. Too often graphic design solutions are simply exercises in being
    clever with the goal of selling product. Such projects are simply jobs, and jobs
    are boring.\r\n\r\nMy repeated references to setting metal type continue to come
    up for me here because it is not the sheet pulled from the press that is the project
    of such endeavours, but the curiosity, patience, discipline and practice that
    goes with doing something the hard way for the pleasure of doing it the hard way.\r\n\r\nAs
    above, convenience might fascilitate product, but product is not all that interesting
    a vocation."
  created: '2007-01-21 06:16:18'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "First - back to the original question.\r\nIP - I suggest once a job is finished
    and a outside source is selected to do the printing - you talk to that outside
    source. I use a guy near Columbia, SC who does fantastic printing. However, I
    have found I cannot send him TTF fonts - only Type 1. If I send him a PDF, it
    must be made through Adobe's Acrobat, and not through Quark 7.0... he can't do
    a thing with those...\r\n\r\nSecond, Mac <em> vs </em> IBM PC/IBM-Compatibles
    (Dell, Gateway, Sony, etc.)\r\n\r\nI am a Mac user for all graphic arts. PERIOD.
    I've been on Macs since 1988 - I have helped by being a beta or gamma tester for
    many of the programs I still use to this day. \r\n\r\nI also happen to own a real
    live genuine IBM. I used IBM way before 1988. They were great for billing, inventory,
    etc. Still are. If I were a financial person, and IBM is the only computer I would
    look at.\r\n\r\nI know IBM has come along way, and many of the programs I use
    are now available for the IBM. But \"windows\" per se are still \"clunky.\" Just
    not as intuitive as my many years on the MAC.\r\n\r\nBesides, since I'm on a Mac
    computer all day for graphic arts -- it's nnice knowing when I'm going to play,
    it is playtime on the IBM. Know what I mean? Breaktime!!!\r\n\r\nIf you are doing
    well with whatever computer you are on, and you've made your investment in programs,
    fonts, etc. and it does the job for you -- stay with it!"
  created: '2007-01-21 15:28:49'
- author:
    name: IP
  body: "Amazing posts with unique insights. I will touch on some of the comments
    \r\n\r\nWormwood - I will create an avatar soon. But until then, my real name
    is Heidi. :)\r\n\r\nJason - I get the feeling that the way you teach and the way
    I learn is very similar. My thirst for knowledge is insatiable and I want to get
    my hands on as much as information possible. Some take that as being a busy body,
    others see it as a waste of time or pointless but being worried about the opinions
    of others is certainly not worth the energy. Any knowledge helps, how it does
    is by far more interesting than the original concept itself.  \r\n\r\nI have much
    more to add but this topic should be transferred over to a new post.\r\n\r\n\r\nWormwood
    - I can give you the reason why the copy place requested an unflattened PSD file
    but it doesn't clarify much. The worker(and long time owner) told me she needed
    to center my image manually in order for it to print correctly. She said all work
    should be brought in that way. There was no word on PDFs and this was only two
    months ago. I have been to my fair share of \"copy places\" and this is the first
    and only one ever to request this. \r\n\r\nAs for the Mac and PC thing once again.
    Like I said previously,I am a technology lover and asking whether one platform
    is better than the next is like asking a mother to choose which of her children
    she loves more. But here is an interesting thing. I was in a job interview two
    weeks ago where the interviewer insisted that \"the absolute best clarity in graphic
    creation comes strictly from a Mac\".  \r\n\r\nWhat are your thoughts about that
    comment? \r\n\r\nMy printing question has been answered and my anxiety over making
    the transition from copy shop to a full fledged print house has been quieted.
    \ \r\n\r\nUntil the next post,\r\n\r\nHeidi\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-21 22:57:38'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I find it sad that anybody seriously thinks that either major platform is
    innately superior for graphic design.\r\n\r\nIt's interesting that on the one
    hand, Mac OS is still dominant at the high end of the graphic design industry.
    On the other hand, looking at Adobe's 2006 public revenue info for investors,
    our revenue is 75% Windows and 25% Mac OS. Given that software for creative professionals
    is more than half Adobe's revenue as well, one knows that at least half Adobe's
    creative pro buyers are on Windows. Further, you can see that the trend towards
    Windows has been increasing over time. Of course, Windows has been well-supported
    by most service bureaus and printers for quite a few years now.\r\n\r\nSo, to
    comment briefly on some of Patty's assertions:\r\n\r\n\"Mac is what the design
    community uses, for the most part.\"\r\n\r\nActually, this is only true of the
    high end, as described above. At the low to mid-range, the converse is true.\r\n\r\n\"This
    means that most printshops are set up to receive Mac files,\"\r\n\r\nMost print
    shops are also set up to receive Windows files.\r\n\r\n\"most of the design apps
    were created with Mac OS in mind (altho are now available for PC too),\" \r\n\r\nFor
    most of these apps, they have been made and released simultaneously on Mac and
    Windows for over a decade, and there is no functional difference between the Mac
    and Windows versions. This is certainly true of Adobe's applications, at the very
    least.\r\n\r\nMy point is not that Windows is better, just that most of the Mac-superiority
    talk is just that, talk. They're both seriously usable operating systems, and
    you can get the job done with either one. Your personal choice will likely be
    dependent on factors other than which one is \"better,\" though that may quite
    reasonably include what's in use by your school or peers.\r\n\r\nFor my part,
    I've been doing graphic design on computers since 1987, and font dev since 1994
    or thereabouts. I have switched my primary platform five times. At the moment,
    I use Windows, but that's mostly because there was a point when I needed to either
    move from Mac OS 9 to either OS X or Windows for a new laptop, and a few particular
    circumstances made Windows the right choice for my personal needs at that time.:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>OS
    X 10.0 was clearly not ready for prime time (solved mostly around 10.2, and almost
    entirely by 10.4.x)\r\n<li>FontLab beta versions would come out a year earlier
    for Windows than for Mac, so I could work with a newer/better font development
    environment on Windows (still true today)\r\n<li>I could get a significantly higher
    res LCD screen on a Windows laptop than on a Mac laptop (still true today AFAIK).
    I found 1200 vertical pixels a really useful amount when working with a 1000-unit
    em square.\r\n<li>Virtually all of Adobe's applications functioned identically
    on both platforms (still true).\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-01-22 03:23:44'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>Actually, this is only true of the high end, as described above. At
    the low to mid-range, the converse is true.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell... which would
    you rather be?\r\n\r\nMy last thought on the subject - I think that the fact that
    Macs just plain look great (both inside and out) is a big selling point for a
    lot of graphic designers - at least the high end ones. We like things that have
    style, which is why graphic design studios are - usually - much cooler looking
    than your accountant's office or the local Jenny Craig. Apple was smart to recognize
    this at a time when most computers were clunky putty-colored boxes. Of course
    PCs have played a nice game of catch-up on the industrial design front too. But
    to answer wormwood - we need computers on our desks, and when the entire package
    looks like an iMac or a MacBook, and is that space-efficient, yeah, I'm gonna
    shell out a few extra bucks for it.\r\n\r\nI guess other than price point (which
    is not that big a difference anymore) I just don't really understand why a designer
    would choose a PC over a Mac, unless their client base specifically requires the
    PC platform. And even then... find another client."
  created: '2007-01-22 14:29:00'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I live in a rural setting and have \u201Cart folk\u201D to chat with.\"\r\n\r\nMinneapolis
    is Rural? ;o)\r\n\r\n\"how many PC-users do you know who have a deep and thoughtful
    knowledge of their machines?\"\r\n\r\nHaving worked in large all-Mac design studios,
    I can tell you many, many graphic designers can barely turn the computer on themselves...regardless
    of the OS they are using. ;o)\r\n\r\n\"Is the acrimony that always accompanies
    the Mac vs. Windows debate really productive or even justified? \"\r\n\r\nIs the
    acrimony that always accompanies the [whatever] vs. [whatever] debate really productive
    or even justified? Of course not. It's just a fun waste of time online. ;o)\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-22 14:32:49'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Something to consider: OS X uses Display PostScript (and PDF as an intermediate
    format for everything) to generate what you see, thereby providing the best approximation
    of what you're going to get in the end (PostScrip/PDF being defacto what printers
    etc. use).\r\n\r\nAnother consideration is that colour management is a lot easier
    on a Mac. And you are going to need good colour management!\r\n\r\n(When I started
    doing design and lay-out on a computer, Photoshop wasn't called Photoshop yet
    and a guy in Denver had just launched a page layout program that did everything
    one needed \u2014 dare I mention the Q-word? Apple was the platform then and I
    never felt the need to change that).\r\n\r\nBTW If you are in any way connected
    to the internet, you are in for a lot of s**t using Windows if you are not fairly
    competent re firewalling etc."
  created: '2007-01-22 14:47:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Regarding getting stuff printed. You will have far more trouble getting what
    you expect out of the average Kinkos than you will out of a real professional
    printing firm. Kinkos staffs are spotty with a few decent workers mixed with many
    clueless ones. When taking even a PDF to Kinkos, you can get color shifts and
    wierd PostScript failures because they may be using an emulated PostScript RIP
    or printer and the staff may not be able to troubleshoot. I have had InD made
    pdf files screw up at Kinkos on some of their HP printers (they may not keep current
    with them). I have learned to prerasterize my pdf files in Photoshop so that you
    are not asking much of the Kinkos equipment or staff.  Kinkos is fine for run-of-the-mill
    duplication but not for anything color or postscript critical. Meaning, if you
    care, don't take it there.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: I have sworn off the PC vs
    Mac pissing contests so make up your own mind about that mine shaft."
  created: '2007-01-22 18:00:28'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Kinkos staffs are spotty \r\n\r\nThey'll probably grow out of it, or maybe
    they could try ointment? "
  created: '2007-01-22 18:10:25'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "My brother once took a 10 page PDF to Kinkos at 20:00 - he came home at 02:00
    with the first 3 pages printed, and ended up printing the last 8 pages on his
    own inkjet because Kinkos took 2 hours to figure out how to open the PDF on their
    computers, then about an hour to print each page.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2007-01-22 18:17:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...or maybe they could try ointment?\"\r\n\r\nThat just might be their
    only salveation Si :-P\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-22 19:06:07'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "I recently sent designs to a specialist printers and never heard anything
    from them until my client contacted me wondering why the end product didn't have
    pictures in the same positions as in the approved pdfs. I then found out that
    the worker at the printers didn't know how to use InDesign properly and had redone
    the whole design in FreeHand instead. Now they insist that everything printed
    with them should be done with FreeHand. Bad news, if you want to use OT fonts.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nEdit:
    removed the description of the printshop, such a small market here, I don't want
    to upset anyone!"
  created: '2007-01-22 20:07:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Time to find a new printer! If a printer can't handle an industry standard
    like InD, it makes you wonder what else they don't know about their job. I hope
    you have other choices where you live Mili?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-22 20:24:23'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Chris, unfortunately this printer has an agreement with the client and there's
    not much competition in this kind of printing. I guess it's a situation of grinning
    and bearing it.\r\nThe popularity of FreeHand in Finland was one reason I didn't
    buy an Intel Mac, FH wouldn't work well in the newer computer.  "
  created: '2007-01-22 20:33:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mili,\r\nCan they at least print from a pdf? Even the idiot who can't print
    InD should be able to print a pdf. You are really in a tough situation there.
    Sounds like they need some real competition from someone. It is pretty bad when
    the printer changes your design because he is too incompetent just output something
    as simple and normal as InD.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-22 20:51:21'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: It's a bit complicated, Chris. They want open files, because they have to
    be able to adapt some of the designs (the problem one wasn't one of them) to fit
    various surfaces. So far I've delivered a PSD file and maybe FreeHand to go with
    it, but now I'm fed up with FreeHand and trying to avoid it at all cost. Also,
    with InD I wouldn't need to build such huge PSD files and text could be more easily
    integrated into the design. I thought I was doing them a favor with easily adaptable
    InD files...
  created: '2007-01-22 21:01:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The life of a designer is never easy.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-22 22:26:11'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Seeing as how Freehand is pretty much dead, I'd say it's time to find a new
    printer.\r\n\r\n(And I'm REALLY going to miss Freehand...my personal favorite
    app.)"
  created: '2007-01-23 15:20:50'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: Freehand has its moments, but after changing from Illustrator to FH some 15
    years ago and recently back to Illustrator (+InDesign) I'm not missing it. I won't
    start a new design with it unless I have to.
  created: '2007-01-23 18:15:41'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "> Something to consider: OS X uses Display PostScript....\r\n\r\nNo, it does
    not. Heck, it doesn't even directly use PDF as its native imaging model, though
    it comes close.\r\n\r\n\"It is widely stated that Quartz \"uses PDF\" internally,
    often by people making comparisons with the Display PostScript technology used
    in NeXTSTEP and OPENSTEP. Quartz's internal imaging model correlates well with
    the PDF imaging model, making it easy to output PDF to multiple devices, but Quartz
    does not use PDF as an internal representation.\" - Wikipedia\r\n\r\nNot that
    I'm knocking Quartz - it's just not the same as DPS, is all.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-24 08:16:42'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Thanks Thomas for the clarification. Must have been Steve Jobs' Distortion
    Field working at full blast\u2026\r\n\r\n@mili: You can export a PDF from Acrobat
    as an EPS. That way your printer could have a format to work with and you could
    design in InDesign."
  created: '2007-01-24 09:29:20'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Thanks for the suggestion, Bert, but they couldn't do much with an EPS in
    Freehand, could they? There are situations when they need to slightly adjust the
    design.\r\nI just tested exporting an EPS from inDesign and opening it in Freehand,
    and it just shows as a single picture, which can't be altered. But placed in Illustrator
    it works just fine and can be worked with. Fingers crossed they like Illustrator,
    then (I already asked, waiting for an answer)."
  created: '2007-01-24 09:42:54'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Thomas - if you're still following this thread - do you know when Adobe plans
    to release CS 3? I'm still on CS 1 and am thinking to skip the CS 2 upgrade and
    go straight to 3 when it comes out.
  created: '2007-01-24 17:07:59'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Thomas\"\r\n\"Not that I\u2019m knocking Quartz - it\u2019s just not the
    same as DPS, is all.\"\r\n\r\nOf course it isn't the same. But can you tell the
    difference between a font rendered in PDF, and a font rendered in Quartz?"
  created: '2007-01-25 20:37:08'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Patty: I know when the next version of the Creative Suite is coming out,
    but I can't say. However, Adobe CEO Bruce Chizen has publicly said that the next
    Creative Suite would ship this spring, if that helps any.\r\n\r\nDave B: PDF is
    a file format, not a rendering spec. But I can certainly tell the difference between
    a font in a PDF rendered onscreen by Adobe Reader (or Acrobat) versus one rendered
    by Mac OS's Preview. But the difference is in the rasterizer (CoolType vs. Quartz),
    and not really so much in the internal representation of the font.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-28 04:16:19'
date: '2007-01-17 17:19:04'
node_type: forum
title: Does font file format really matter in printing?

---
