---
author:
  name: Kristina Drake
  picture: 110970
body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nMy school/work just launched its new logo. I'm curious what y'all
  think about it.\r\nThe link has all of Concordia's past logos.\r\n\r\nhttp://web2.concordia.ca/mrkcom/newvision/?referID=20070119_en\r\n\r\nI
  feel irritated. But probably only because I'm used to the old one which was so much
  more traditional. And what's with the yellow? Sigh.\r\n\r\nCan you guys make me
  feel better about it? \r\n\r\nK."
comments:
- author:
    name: mr smith
    picture: 111553
  body: "Sorry K,\r\nNo can do. It's really ugly. Actually, you might feel better
    knowing it's marginally less ugly than the new Ontario logo."
  created: '2007-01-18 17:55:30'
- author:
    name: all about seb
    picture: 110631
  body: "Kristina,\r\n\r\nI am afraid that I won't be able to make you feel you better
    about it either. It looks very generic almost clipart-y to me, but that 1974 logo,
    hmm, that had style and a lovely colour too. "
  created: '2007-01-18 18:04:52'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Glad that it's not just me. I keep thinking car hood ornament. Pally shield.
    Mail* headpieces worn by WoW warriors.\r\n*Uh, that would be plate, rather.\r\n\r\nI
    honestly don't see how they intend to print that pukey yellow on white paper.
    \"University\" disappears. hm. Maybe that's the intention.\r\n\r\nugh.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-18 18:19:52'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: Seems like it was made by a ericgill. Is that a building on the mark or what?
  created: '2007-01-18 18:26:58'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Interesting approach to aligning elements and to choose a C with underbite.
    At least they didn't letterspace it \u2013\_no wait, doh!\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-18 18:29:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'I see why they wanted a change the old logo was spectacularly late 80s in
    style. Those fussy letterforms. That spacing... But Yeah - this new logo is not
    *so* hot. That kind of style was slightly hip in the early 90s. The new design
    is more approachable if less serious feeling. But take heart, it appears that
    Concordia will rebrand at the drop of a hat so about 2012 you should be getting
    a logo using DIN. ;-) BTW, The yellow is meant to be gold I bet. But actually
    depending on what Concordia is planning this logo might be an accurate indicator.
    Logos are not just meant to keep us peons happy by looking ''good'' by some arbitrary
    measure. They need to do a job. It may be that this one is doing the job that
    the Admin & marketing types have in mind. The question is  - is that the job you
    think needs doing? '
  created: '2007-01-18 18:31:54'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I don't get why UNIVERSITY is on there twice.\r\n\r\nNone of those are exactly
    award-winning, but I'm baffled by the letterspacing on the new one.\r\n\r\nI also
    hate the NYU continuing ed logo, looks kind of like it's sticking its tongue out."
  created: '2007-01-18 18:44:51'
- author:
    name: bshaykin
    picture: 110582
  body: "They're in Montreal. It's bilingual. University/Universit\xE9."
  created: '2007-01-18 18:57:31'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: 'Patty: It''s there twice because it''s in two different languages. (Not that
    I like it, but there you go.)'
  created: '2007-01-18 18:57:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'OMG *two* ''swooshtikas''! What does any of it have to do with a University?
    Yuk.  '
  created: '2007-01-18 19:00:27'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "All I can think of when I see this logo are phrases like \u201Ccorrespondence
    school\u201D and \u201Cdiploma mill.\u201D It's just so bland and tawdry, and
    trying to build a a coat of arms shield with those swooshes is clever in a very,
    very bad way."
  created: '2007-01-18 19:11:05'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "We used to have two logos. One for English, one for French. Now? Only the
    biligual one.\r\n\r\nI see some of the point in this - preserving aspects of our
    crest (book, sun, triangle) but the logo and the university both seem to be moving
    away from anything linked to tradition. We are \"moving forward\", a \"university
    on the move\" and becoming more corporate. We now have a president instead of
    a rector. \r\n\r\nSo yes, the logo represents the administration's goals. \r\n
    \r\nMmm and the letterspacing? They've been doing that to our web address for
    a while now. It was inevitable."
  created: '2007-01-18 19:12:27'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "Its rubbish. Bad curves, no craftmanship etc. Sorry that you have to look
    at it!\r\n\r\nMuzz"
  created: '2007-01-18 19:20:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">letter spacing?\r\n\r\nThat is for the new department of advanced sheep
    stealing :) "
  created: '2007-01-18 20:36:56'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Why would one want a bilingual approach for a word like that. The words are
    practically the same...?
  created: '2007-01-18 22:11:43'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "<cite> Working with an internal group of graphic designers and two outside
    design teams </cite>\r\n\r\nCrikey! I'm genuinely curious, because I've never
    done anything like this, how does this work? Lots of meetings? Does one person
    design and the rest consult, do they have competing ideas and pick the best? How
    do you design using teams?\r\n\r\nRe: logo opinion, I've decided when it comes
    to university logos that I'm happy in the 70s\r\n\r\n--N"
  created: '2007-01-18 22:24:33'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Why would one want a bilingual approach for a word like that. The words
    are practically the same\u2026?</em>\r\n\r\nBecause in Quebec, it's the law.  You
    can be fined and be charged to have the sign removed if it doesn't conform to
    the Language Laws. (No, I'm not kidding: French has to be at least as big if not
    larger than the English, among other things.)\r\n\r\nKristina, it's a truly ugly
    piece of crap.  If it's any consolation, I think almost every university who looks
    at rebranding themselves as \"hip\" and \"with-it\" -- whatever that means! --
    goes for this faux-minimalist BS, finds soon (2-3 years) that it makes their degrees
    look like something you'd get in a box of no-name cereal, and smartens up by going
    back to a traditional crest with funky logo and ad campaigns.\r\n\r\nHeck, U of
    C's done it more than once -- the current incarnation is, I think, the third time
    they've rebranded the formal crest since I started there in the early 70s.  The
    \"new\" slogan is \"This Is Now\".\r\n\r\nWhatever that means....  ;-(\r\n\r\n(As
    the Canada goose said after eating a field of green grass \"this too shall pass\"!)"
  created: '2007-01-18 23:19:02'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Linda, Language Laws, really? I didn't know that. It sounds kind of weird,
    lol.
  created: '2007-01-19 00:29:52'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Language Laws, really? I didn\u2019t know that. It sounds kind of weird,
    lol.</em>\r\n\r\nCheck out \"The Status of the French Language\" (thankfully <em>en
    anglais</em>!) at http://www.oqlf.gouv.qc.ca/english/charter/index.html : pretty
    sad, actually.\r\n\r\nI speak both Parisian and Quebec French, love Montreal,
    and even pay extra to have the digital TV channel that shows every Canadiens game,
    but it's a severely strange place from a legal/language perspective...."
  created: '2007-01-19 01:41:44'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Thing is, I don't think our switch to a bilingual logo had anything to do
    with the language laws. As I understand it that law has to do with signage in
    a public space. (But I don't really know and am now curious.) Outside the school
    we always used a French logo. I perhaps should check this out before saying anything,
    but given the incredible amount of unilingual English stuff we produce -- and
    I'm including huge banners inside the school announcing events, recruitment and
    application materials -- I doubt the French on the logo was motivated by sign
    laws. Also, \"university\" is not smaller than \"universit\xE9\". \r\n\r\nI think
    it has to do with a push to make everything we produce bilingual... to attract
    more students? because our new president is quebecois? who knows. I'm dreading
    the day they decide we need to have a bilingual Academic Calendar.  \r\n\r\nAlthough
    you are right, Linda. According to the law, the English text must be smaller by
    a certain percentage than the French. There have been ridiculous cases with restaurant
    owners being fined for \"illegal\" beer coasters. "
  created: '2007-01-19 04:21:05'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: 'Kristina, it''s old news by now and probably not much consolation for you,
    but here''s an article about another school that wanted to update its image: <a
    href="http://www.businessweek.com/innovate/content/aug2005/id20050830_313230.htm"
    target="_blank">The New School''s old and new logos</a>.'
  created: '2007-01-19 04:49:12'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nIn the Montreal <a href=\"http://www.canada.com/montrealgazette/news/story.html?id=91116fe1-f327-493e-8861-59d23303e286&k=10353\">Gazette</a>,
    an article which places the cost of this new logo at $30,000. Ouch. \r\n\r\nRegarding
    the French language laws, I found some info on <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charter_of_the_French_Language\">Wikipedia</a>.
    \r\n\r\n\"A number of exceptions are also made to the general rules for commercial
    production, signage, and advertising\" including \"Educational products for the
    teaching of a language other than French\" and \"Cultural and ideological companies,
    groups, signs, and literature (including non-French broadcasters, newspapers,
    etc.)\"\r\n\r\nEdit:\r\nOh, just saw the New School logo. Eeewwwwww. I wonder
    what parents of current and prospective students thought when they saw it."
  created: '2007-01-19 17:10:24'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Kristina, you may well be correct about the emphasis on attracting more French
    students -- not exactly a stupid move in a province with a decreasing percentage
    of native English speakers. It wouldn't surprise me that other things may well
    change: perhaps not a bilingual calendar, but perhaps one in each language.  (Do
    you still produce a hard-copy calendar?  U of C is rapidly phasing theirs out
    by charging an arm and a leg for one....)\r\n\r\nI must admit, Ricardo, my reaction
    to the New School's logo is about the same as Colin and Justin to anything antique-ish.\r\n\r\nEW
    (expletives deleted).  :-("
  created: '2007-01-19 17:13:11'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Hi Linda,\r\n\r\nYes, we still produce a hard copy Calendar. In fact, our
    online version is produced from the files used to create the hard copy. \r\n\r\nThis
    year there was some mumbling from above about making it available online only
    and adding interactivity between the Calendar and the Class Schedule from the
    registration interface. Hehe, and bilingual. However, we have neither the expertise
    nor the budget to make those kinds of changes. At least not now. We would all
    (the 4 of us in publications) need some heavy-duty training. And certainly extra
    staff and cooperation with the IT department. Since we are unionized and permanent,
    they can't simply replace us with someone more savvy (knocking on wood and keeping
    appendages crossed).\r\n\r\nHow's the online-only going at U of C? We did the
    same with our admission application. Printed only 2000 copies, all long gone,
    and are now insisting students apply online. I guess for the most part it hasn't
    had a negative effect, but the decision has certainly impacted the way we process
    applicants.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I prefer to read most everything hard copy. Professors
    constantly refer to the Calendar from offices with no computer or internet access,
    so what would they do? And, c'mon, in comparison to other things, it's not that
    expensive to print.  \r\n\r\nK."
  created: '2007-01-19 17:32:18'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "<cite>'Check out \u201CThe Status of the French Language\u201D\r\nI speak
    both Parisian and Quebec French, love Montreal, and even pay extra to have the
    digital TV channel that shows every Canadiens game, but it\u2019s a severely strange
    place from a legal/language perspective\u2026.'</cite>\r\n\r\nYeah, fairly odd.
    But then again, I like both French and English. Although my French isn't too good."
  created: '2007-01-19 17:52:50'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Ooh, that New School logo is atrocious! Grungiversity???
  created: '2007-01-19 18:25:46'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Certainly for internal/on-campus distribution, I'd think that hard copies
    would be most useful, but if you consider the cost in postage to send 'em even
    within Canada, it could get prohibitive in a big hurry.  \r\n\r\n[As an example,
    I took over a newsletter almost two years ago that had been distributed exclusively
    in hard copy and that cost upwards of $850/year.  After converting it to pdf and
    email, it now runs under $200 (we still print 20 copies for the non-technos and
    for library archives).  And I'm talking really small (<100) runs.]\r\n\r\nThat
    being said, when I applied to grad school in 1998, it was all hard-copy and from
    my sources still is, but then again, Environmental Design is somewhat a law unto
    itself: it bestows Masters and Ph.D.s but isn't subject to the Faculty of Graduate
    Studies' rules (where they still decree that your thesis has to be in Courier,
    believe it or not!), as they are considered a \"professional\" faculty like Law
    or Medicine.  \r\n\r\nAs well, I had to submit a number of forms filled in by
    hand throughout my program, although they did (and still do) require graduates
    to have some minimal computer skills.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-19 18:30:41'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Oh for sure, mailing them costs a bundle. We no longer mail them to students,
    but I believe we still mail to certain schools and counselling centres. However,
    I believe even that distribution is being reduced, which is a good thing. I'm
    all for cost reduction and using less paper (let's face it, the book is a big
    sucker) but I don't (yet) agree with not printing any.   \r\n \r\nIs U of C the
    Univ. of Calgary? I will have to take a peek in our library room and check out
    their past calendars.\r\n\r\nLots of hubub going on here (ConU not Typophile)
    about the new logo. Interestingly enough, after all the negative comments a few
    people are now stepping forward in defense of the designers and the new logo. "
  created: '2007-01-19 19:28:42'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I think The New School logo is absolutely wonderful. It brings across that
    desperate, greedy big-business condition that universities once tried to hide
    under well groomed rhetoric. Except that it looks like an unaccredited college
    I might see ads for on TV. I wonder if an \"edgy\" flickering-animation version
    exists for the impending infomercials.\r\n\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2007-01-19 22:07:05'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "The logo has been slightly modified since the launch.\r\n\r\n\"University\"
    and \"Universit\xE9\" are larger, and more visible, and the yellow-gold colour
    is darker. Woot! :)"
  created: '2007-01-20 00:21:42'
- author:
    name: Thylacine
    picture: 112146
  body: "If the school's goal is to brand itself as a non-accredited, mail order,
    diploma mill, they're on the right path. It reeks of that casual, not-quite-with-it
    trendiness that seems about 20 years behind the curve.\r\n\r\nSomething that puzzles
    me is the school's regular revamping of the logo. Branding is a long-term effort
    with benefits that accrue over many years as the brand becomes known and identified
    with the organization. The relevance of this concept should be especially important
    to an academic institution whose goal, I think, would be to foster an image of
    stability, competence, quality and distinguished tradition. Instead, this new
    logo accomplishes the opposite."
  created: '2007-01-20 00:47:39'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.instalogo.com/\">Instant logo</a>, comes to mind.\r\n\r\nConcordia
    U. has just lost it's soul. Where's the edge in this design? Where's the push
    that challenges/developes/encourages the individual in a corporate enviroment?
    Analogous colour scheme, analogous cadence - this thing strives to be mediocre,
    and is scared sh*tless to 'stand apart'.\r\n\r\nLook to the board members who
    signed off on this valium design. Take a  good look into their own lives and then
    run for your life Kristina. Run as fast as you can! \r\nOr, stand your ground
    and disect this 'work' in front of the student body - if you feel that it is worth
    the fight.\r\n\r\nAnd if you are going to mount a serious campaign other than
    'trial by popular opinion', I suggest you take a technical approach and clearly
    explain options which you think hold true to the spirit of Concordia learning
    in a Concordia corporate enviroment.\r\n\r\nIt is possible and it can be done...
    and less is not more.\r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-01-20 06:44:28'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: unbalanced, poor line quality
  created: '2007-01-20 18:35:35'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "The new logo has no finess at all. In fact it need to be redesigned!\r\n\r\nIt
    also looks as if the letters itself in the logo are not very well designed., but
    that could be screen resolution problem perhaps."
  created: '2007-01-21 16:52:39'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Eric - I love the cat! Describes a lot of feelings around here... Amateurs
    <em> vs. </em> Professionals.\r\n\r\nIt is definitely unbalanced. I could hear
    Don Munson asking for box-y-ness - no breakouts. It makes me want to pull Universite
    over the C -- and University flushed to to the A in Concordia...\r\n\r\nBut even
    that wouldn't help.\r\n\r\nIn 1974 and 1978 - I think they had someone that understood
    University Identity - and the \"arms\" really made it seems - well, behind Ivy
    Walls... now it could be a bake shop on the corner of Main St."
  created: '2007-01-21 17:15:56'
- author:
    name: degregorio
    picture: 110554
  body: "Kristina...\r\n\r\nI worked in a University in Chile.\r\nHere you can found
    a review of a redesign.\r\n\r\nhttp://letritas.blogspot.com/2006/03/escudo-puc-rechazado.html"
  created: '2007-01-21 19:44:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Juan Pablo, that is a very sensitive reworking of a design, with nice improvements
    in clarity and balance. \r\n\r\nWhat a contrast to the pathetic new logo of Concordia.\r\n\r\nThe
    thing that disturbs me most about the Concordia logo, even more than its 'hey
    look at my swashes' absurdity, is that it goes against the what a University should
    stand for. A University should be about passing along the knowledge, skills and
    experience of past generations to the rising new generation of young adults. As
    such, it needs to be above superficial trendiness. By straining so hard for trendiness
    the logo seems to me to say, \"We don't understand or care about the true value
    and mission of a University.\"\r\n\r\nThe New School logo linked above misses
    by trying to be trendy--and the trend has already passed!--but at least it is
    well done, which is a mitigating factor. \r\n\r\nI am curious about Concordia's
    own design department; were they consulted at all? "
  created: '2007-01-21 20:09:25'
- author:
    name: dmajor
    picture: 111920
  body: "That '74 logo sure has spunk. This new one tries to modernize the coat-of-arms
    shape, and is concerned with the centrality of learning, graphically represented
    by the book--these are virtuous efforts--but jeez, the graphic has the feel of
    a logo belonging to an investment portfolio. To me it doesn't look trendy at all,
    moreso stale. The '74 logo had more youthfulness for sure. \r\n\r\nMy university
    (also Canadian) re-branded last year, abandoning the coat-of-arms for an iceberg-inspired
    graphic. Reviews have been diverse, but mostly negative. Check it out the new
    coupled with the old at http://www.today.mun.ca/files/image_web/2291.jpg. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-22 00:26:17'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Interesting comparing all the old and new \"hip\" versions*. As strong as
    my distaste is for sincere pomp, the ideas implemented by the universities, as
    they try to discard margins are just funny. They must be hurting in the wallets,
    but they haven't got their bearings on what to do about it.\r\n\r\nSo, if shields,
    crests and serifs are out, what's in? What is the real future of scholastic regalia
    and ID? Because it's not in any of these. Does it even matter, or is this just
    a bad fad?\r\n\r\n*PUC excepted. The top detail is pretty interesting.\r\n\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2007-01-22 04:35:21'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Death of academia's colonial symbolisms? I only hope so - and it's about
    friggin time too.\r\n\r\nPerhaps now we're entering into a graphic phase of a
    broader/truer expression. Designed not of 'belonging', but of 'time and character'.\r\n\r\nAnd
    there's the rub... to find honest self expression - and that demands a master's
    touch. \r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-01-22 06:18:43'
- author:
    name: zwoelf
    picture: 111926
  body: "I think, the logo of 1974 is working the best. It's really bad to see this
    kind of \"evolution\" backwards of the logo.\r\n\r\nwww.zwoelf.hu"
  created: '2007-01-22 13:49:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">honest self expression\r\n\r\nShouldn't the logo express the spirit of the
    organization whose logo it is, and not the personality of the designer? \r\n\r\nOf
    course some of the designer's sensibility will always enter in, but if the personal
    expression of the designer is up front, rather than the ethos of the institution,
    it seems to me that it fails as a design.\r\n\r\nOf course, the personality of
    the designer and the institution might coincide, in which case, fine--but self
    expression doesn't seem to me like the right goal.  "
  created: '2007-01-22 13:57:36'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "I was trying to use the phrase 'self expression' to mean Concordia's identity
    of self. That's why I went on to mention that it takes a master graphic designer
    to be able to clearly articulate it's character, especially if coming in from
    outside the Concordia experience. \r\n\r\nDoes a learning institution have a 'self'?
    Does it have a character? From my own experience I think it does, and from reading
    the above posts I think Concordia has a chance for a great 'expression' of 'self',
    but it will take someone with considerable design interpretation skill - and without
    the use of academia\u2019s colonial symbolisms.\r\n\r\n@Choz - <a href=\"http://identity.ucla.edu/graphicstandards/index.shtml\">UCLA</a>
    spent 98K on these for letters when they rebranded their identity back in '04.\r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro\r\n\r\n
    \r\n"
  created: '2007-01-22 17:05:27'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "98K? Nice work if you can get it. I would've advanced the A a hair, but technically
    I suppose I'd be wrong. Of course, I think I'd have not tried to make it look
    like that at all. When I am forced to work with only 4 letters, I try to find
    a style that doesn't accentuate the kerning problems potentially in that combination.\r\n\r\nEach
    college needs to do it's own thing, but they seem to be in a crisis as a service
    industry. What do they sell, how do they convince the market their version is
    better? How do they make certain that the market knows what they are looking at
    when they see the mark? Standard questions, and interesting in the context of
    universities as a sector.\r\n\r\nWith the need for the college industry to rebrand
    itself, might be a coming demand for the friendlier postmodern blackletter trend,
    which for now seems to be largely a thought experiment. The new blackletters might
    be an excellent compromise that holds some old colonial feel (which I don't think
    is necessarily bad, <em>from the client's perspective</em>), and the hipness they
    feel they need to now cater to.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2007-01-22 17:56:49'
- author:
    name: ajkandy
    picture: 112172
  body: "i came up with a <a href=\"http://www.kingmarketing.ca/weblogs/ajkandy/archives/2007/01/new_concordia_l.html\">counterdesign</a>:
    comments welcome.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-26 23:06:01'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: where do I comment? here, blog or flikr?
  children:
  - author:
      name: ajkandy
      picture: 112172
    body: oh anywhere you like! But since we have something going on here it'd be
      nice to continue the discussion on Typophile.
    created: '2007-01-29 16:18:12'
  created: '2007-01-27 02:18:01'
- author:
    name: goglu
    picture: 109761
  body: "Argh! What's happened to my <em>Alma Mater</em>!?\r\nJust read about the
    new logo in a local weekly - they even mention this very thread! :-)\r\nToo bad&hellip;
    That new design looks \xFCber-cheap and reeks of compromise :-P"
  created: '2007-03-09 23:03:05'
date: '2007-01-18 17:27:23'
node_type: forum
title: New logo ... opinions?

---
