---
author:
  name: sativo
body: ''
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Edit: The original title of this thread was something along the lines of
    \r\n<em>\u201CDoes anyone know how to find a good production designer?\u201D</em>
    and started off with:\r\n\r\n<em>\u201CCheck this out, I put up a contest, so
    t speak, on sitepoint.com to find someone to help with banner ad creation for
    a site that I do some frelance art direction for. Desipite the fairly detailed
    instructions and feedback that I leave for them, not one comes up with anything
    that resembles professional work.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nThe originator of this thread
    has removed this information for reasons that will be obvious to anyone who reads
    the responses. \r\n\r\n<em>My original reply starts below.</em>\r\n\r\nIf you
    want great design, hire a great design firm and be willing to pay for great design.
    Expecting great design from a $300 spec job in the form of an online contest is
    stupid, cheap, arrogant, and insulting to many professional and student designers."
  created: '2007-01-18 20:43:53'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'James is right. You get what you pay for. '
  created: '2007-01-18 21:30:07'
- author:
    name: dstype
    picture: 111104
  body: "Easy.\r\nIf you know exactly what to do. Do it yourself."
  created: '2007-01-18 21:33:42'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: It's not hard at all to find a good production designer. You're just looking
    in the wrong place.
  created: '2007-01-18 22:01:37'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "you cheap bugger. You get what you pay for. Do you run around town demanding
    free entrees at restaurants in order to decide where to eat the main? Christ.\r\n\r\nMuzz"
  created: '2007-01-18 22:08:13'
- author:
    name: fantrom
  body: "Consider yourself lucky. \r\n\r\nThe kiddies who are participating in your
    contest haven't seen this site...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.no-spec.com"
  created: '2007-01-19 00:46:56'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "ROFL!  That's almost as funny as <a href=\"http://jobbank.gc.ca/ShowJob_en.aspx?OrderNum=2565677&Source=JobPosting&TimeFrame=E7Days&CommGrouping=GAB002&Keyword=progressive&Sources=JobBank&Student=No\">this
    job</a>: scroll to the bottom of the description and check out in \"Other Information\"
    what you need to include in the cover letter with your resume.\r\n\r\n;-)"
  created: '2007-01-19 03:01:31'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: 'Hey, Linda, that IS funny -- never seen something like that! But on the other
    hand maybe they are trying to see if one follows instructions. '
  created: '2007-01-19 04:53:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I would fail as I can't comprehend the meaning of this... \r\n\r\nLanguages:
    Speak English, Read English, Write English, Not required"
  created: '2007-01-19 05:44:01'
- author:
    name: cosmorphis
  body: "Use these guys next time, www.crapinabox.net, and you'll be able to get three
    templates for that price!\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-19 06:06:47'
- author:
    name: sativo
  body: "Oh jeez!  Sorry to offend your delicate design sensibilities guys!  But get
    over yourselves.  I'm a designer too.. I know that places like this can give real
    designers a bad rap.  But I also know that I've had experiences not too dissimilar
    from this online contest where I contracted a designer with a relatively decent
    portfolio who banged out some crap work in a fraction of the time required and
    demanded market rate for 3x as many hours as he put in.\r\n\r\nFYI - I'm willing
    to pay market, but for production design.  I'm not hiring an art director.  The
    direction of the design has already been set.  Now I'm looking for someone to
    bang out some banner ads.  Should I pay $60 an hour for that?\r\n\r\nAnyway, I
    can't believe you guys can't relate with this experience.  Perhaps you've never
    needed to hire a designer to assist you on a project.  But if that's the case,
    just do me a favor and skip this thread -- go cry to someone else.  I'm looking
    for someone who has hired production designers and could give me some pointers
    on where to look, what to expect, and how much to pay.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-19 07:22:48'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Ricardo: I think they want someone who can accurately produce an idot manual,
    actually.  Friend of mine sent me this for my \"really stupid writing\" collection.
    \ ;-)\r\n\r\nSi: The gummint of Canada has some strange ideas about how to construct
    employment templates and their selections don't always work.  Standard is a question
    about one's comprehension level in the two official languages: I suspect almost
    everyone would pass, since functionality isn't required.  (I know, and some of
    us laugh at your gummint...)\r\n\r\nSativo: Most (although not all) of us have
    had a similar experience, but have handled it in a more professional manner.  If
    you want to hire a beginner with no experience to do mindless banner ads and pay
    them crap, that's your business -- it's just not ours.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-19 16:59:32'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Anyway, I can\u2019t believe you guys can\u2019t relate with this experience.
    \"\r\n\r\nWe don't use 'contests' to hire people. It's absurd.\r\n\r\nWhat did
    you expect to get when you are asking people to work for free?\r\n\r\n\"I\u2019m
    looking for someone who has hired production designers and could give me some
    pointers on where to look, what to expect, and how much to pay.\"\r\n\r\nWell,
    DON'T look in online design contest forums.\r\n\r\nOptions:\r\n\r\n - ask local
    designers in your area for recommendations\r\n - get a college intern\r\n - AIGA\r\n\r\nHow
    much should you expect to pay? I dunno. I'd say $50 - $150 but there are so many
    'it depends' that it's impossible to say. I would say expect to pay what they
    are worth.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-19 17:15:34'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "sativo, let me try to be constructive.\r\n\r\nif i were you i'd use my professional
    contacts, being an art director and all, or failing that, speak to an agency and
    get them to shortlist some people who'd done work for similar clients, take a
    look at their portfolios and pay up front for a batch of work, spend the $300.\r\n\r\nthat
    should be obvious. after all, by your own admission, you've failed at least twice
    to get the results you need for your graphics through this kind of contest. your
    costs may be zero, but *you* have wasted your time. the designers haven't wasted
    yours - they're not paid and under no obligation, remember?\r\n\r\nyou're clearly
    looking for design rather than just knocking out banner ads: \"show one or two
    screen layouts that present your best vision for our store ... This contest is
    an excercise in showing us your ability to work with photos, typography, copywriting
    / marketing.\"\r\n\r\nAlthough...\r\n\r\n\"Though I'd like to see a type that's
    more elegant, less heavy. Check out www.gumps.com\" ... \"Once again, take a look
    at www.gumps.com\" ... \"Try to make it look exactly like www.gumps.com but with
    my photos.\" \"Again, check out gumps.\" -- all comments made by you in response
    to one entry.\r\n\r\nI wonder who's the amateur here?\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-19 17:41:00'
- author:
    name: dariodiclaudio
  body: "sativo,\r\n\r\ni think you're kidding yourself if you think your motive is
    to try and help younger designers. your motive seems to be to try and get work
    done for cheap. if you were really interested in helping younger designers why
    not contact your alma mater and take on a design student to work for you as a
    PAID intern. internships are a great way for students to get experience and learn
    from a \"professional\"."
  created: '2007-01-19 18:27:04'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Sativo, let me add one more constructive comment to elliot100's...\r\n\r\nIf
    <strong>you</strong> were a work- and money-starved young designer right now,
    <strong>would you enter your own contest?</strong>"
  created: '2007-01-19 18:35:55'
- author:
    name: sativo
  body: "It's called market economics, look into it.  If there's a supply, who am
    I (or who are you) to criticize?  No one is holding a gun to their heads.  They
    participate in the contest on their own free will.\r\n\r\nUnlike you guys, I don't
    have the luxury of lamenting and pontificating about the drudgery of business
    and design.  I design and I business... and the business side of me looks for
    value.\r\n\r\nFor any of you that haven't ever picked up an economics book, value
    is at or below the price I'm willing to pay.\r\n\r\nIn this case, I have not seen
    value yet.  I'm willing to pay zero.\r\n\r\nHowever, if there was a designer on
    their that was reasonably competent, I'd pay $300 + whatever terms we would agree
    as fair for future work.\r\n\r\nI'm not saying it isn't appropriate to pay someone
    up-front.  It certainly is, given the right circumstances.  But get off your high-horses
    about this contest thing!  If it turned out to produce appropriate design, you
    yourselves would venture to find resources there.\r\n\r\nBut the mob is fickle.
    \ I get it.  You would rather take pot-shots here 'cause you're all so much better
    than me. Haha!  What a joke.\r\n\r\n\r\nAluminum:\r\n\r\n\"How much should you
    expect to pay? I dunno. I\u2019d say $50 - $150 but there are so many \u2018it
    depends\u2019 that it\u2019s impossible to say. I would say expect to pay what
    they are worth.\"\r\n\r\nWhat they are worth to whom?\r\n\r\nIf the answer is
    to me.. then I'd be happy to.  But prove that you are worth what you ask.\r\n\r\n\r\nelliot100:\r\n\r\n\"you\u2019re
    clearly looking for design rather than just knocking out banner ads:\"\r\n\r\nI
    think you've hit the nail on the head.  Was hoping to find someone that could
    think on their own, but I guess none of those guys can.\r\n\r\nRicardo Cordoba:\r\n\r\n\"If
    you were a work- and money-starved young designer right now, would you enter your
    own contest?\"\r\n\r\nWho cares?  I do my thing, they do theirs.  Like I said,
    no one is holding a gun to their heads.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-19 18:52:49'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>No one is holding a gun to their heads. They participate in the contest
    on their own free will.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's more like a carrot that you're holding
    in front of their eyes -- there's some steady work in store, if you're the lucky
    winner of my \"contest\", in which I get lots of free work sent to me and then
    choose the one I like best.\r\n\r\nYou call that <strong>free will</strong>, or
    is it more like <strong>free market will</strong>?"
  created: '2007-01-19 19:22:00'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "the point is, sativo *hasn't* found a supplier through a contest, let alone
    value, and has realised he needs to try something else and/or raise his offer.\r\n\r\nthis
    is also market forces."
  created: '2007-01-19 20:00:30'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"and the business side of me looks for value.\"\r\n\r\nIf you value your
    own time, then you'd realize design contests are rather poor value for you. \r\n\r\n\"In
    this case, I have not seen value yet. I\u2019m willing to pay zero.\"\r\n\r\nI'm
    no economics guru. I'm just a lowly web designer. But I the model is at least
    partially based on 'give me incentive, I give you product'. \r\n\r\nI've tried
    to get a couple roofers to redo my roof telling them I'd pay whoever did the best
    job, but I haven't been able to find anyone to take me up on that yet. ;o)\r\n\r\n\"If
    the answer is to me.. then I\u2019d be happy to. But prove that you are worth
    what you ask.\"\r\n\r\nIt's called a portfolio.\r\n\r\nYou're using an online
    contest to recruit random folks. You're scraping the bottom by default with the
    online contests. I can't see how you can get worked up about the (lack of) quality
    you are finding in this situation."
  created: '2007-01-19 20:30:19'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "I would never work for you sativo, you sound like a fool.\r\n\r\nMuzz"
  created: '2007-01-19 21:29:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>get off your high-horses about this contest thing!</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    is a reason why professional organizations (AIGA, RGD, GDC, etc.) forbid spec
    work in their codes of ethics, and have stipulations regarding what kind of competitions
    members are allowed to enter. It's because independent designers are exploited
    by corporate market forces unless they group together.\r\n\r\nIn that context,
    doing the right thing is not high-horse, it's solidarity.\r\n\r\nOf course, it's
    not mandatory for designers to be registered professionals in order to practise,
    as it is with doctors, lawyers, etc. So \"non-ethical\" mavericks can benefit
    financially from the status which those professional organizations bring to the
    work. On the other hand, they miss out on some of the benefits, such as the respect
    of their peers."
  created: '2007-01-19 21:58:11'
- author:
    name: sativo
  body: "It's pretty obvious to me that while I was looking for feedback from art
    directors who've had experience with finding \"talent\" on limited budgets, I've
    instead come upon a forum filled with designers.\r\n\r\nI can't expect for any
    of you to give me unbiased advice on this topic.\r\n\r\nHowever, while I can understand
    that this type of thing is frustrating in that it affects the market perception
    of designers and your market rate, I have to say that your choice to engage in
    all the teeth gnashing and name calling (i.e. muzzer) in favor of a calm and simple
    explanation no doubt adds to the very perception you're all trying so hard to
    dispel."
  created: '2007-01-19 22:26:54'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "<em>I\u2019ve tried to get a couple roofers to redo my roof telling them
    I\u2019d pay whoever did the best job, but I haven\u2019t been able to find anyone
    to take me up on that yet.</em>\r\n\r\nDarrel, that is the funniest thing I've
    read on Typophile in a long time--perhaps because it's true.\r\n\r\nLet me suggest
    an alternative explanation to yours for why the work submitted to sativo's contest
    was so poor: Perhaps it's because it was all submitted by poor recent d-school
    grads who pulled something quick out of their *ss on the vanishingly small chance
    they could get rent money for February from some cheap carrot twirler."
  created: '2007-01-19 22:33:13'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Wow. This is an amazing flashback. This sounds exactly why I left graphic
    design.\r\n\r\nSativo, you are free to offer $300 for someone to develop a custom
    portfolio exclusively useful to you. You can even demand that they publicly compete
    with others, for an open critiquing, regardless of their taste for that. And they
    they impress with fonts, despite those being a resource you've alloted no budget
    to. You can even, in this free market, demand revisions over and over. I imagine
    you can even proclaim finally that none are worthy of the prize, or the alleged
    future work that goes with it. \r\n\r\nFor $0 laid out so far, you can also analyze
    the color levels, arrangements and typographic choices of your favorite contenders,
    before assembling them all into your own rip, then deem all of them non-winners
    and forfeit ever paying anything. Gotta love that supply and demand.\r\n\r\nHey,
    its a free market. For you it is very free, and it seems you are getting what
    you pay for. Be grateful. Don't approach a bunch of strangers and expect any sympathy;
    this isn't about the elitism of designers. It is about the elitism of smug ...
    clients.You came for sympathy and directions for finding an alternate path to
    your problem. You received the latter and bemoaned it. \r\n\r\nNo, now I remember
    why I left, it was because people want an image that is distinct and different,
    but looks <strong>exactly</strong> like <a href=\"http://www.kohls.com/main/home.jsp\">this</a>,
    <a href=\"http://www.gumps.com/\">this</a> and <a href=\"http://www.bluefly.com/\">this</a>,
    simultaneously. Cheap.\r\n\r\nGoodbye."
  created: '2007-01-19 23:02:12'
- author:
    name: sativo
  body: You're boring me.  Go ahead and continue crying on this thread if you want.  I'm
    moving on.
  created: '2007-01-19 23:43:53'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Don't let the door hit you on the way out.
  created: '2007-01-19 23:48:37'
- author:
    name: Jspass
  body: "Wow. As a student designer nearing graduation, I'm finding this discussion
    to be quite interesting. After thumbing through those submissions, I have to agree
    with most of the feedback in this thread; you get what you pay for.\r\n\r\nWhy
    not come to these forums, where  competent young designers like myself (http://www.aigadesignjobs.org/individual/edit_portfolio.asp?preview=true&t=)
    would be more than eager to pursue such an opportunity? \r\n\r\nEven though my
    professional career has been somewhat brief, I have already developed a strong
    aversion to these so-called clients..."
  created: '2007-01-20 00:52:32'
- author:
    name: Thylacine
    picture: 112146
  body: "Quote from Jspass: <em><strong>\"Even though my professional career has been
    somewhat brief, I have a strong aversion to these so-called clients\u2026\"</strong></em>\r\n\r\nCarefully
    cultivating that aversion will save you a great deal of wasted time and effort.
    Potential clients who are more trouble than they're worth are often easy to identify
    if you recognize the symptoms.\r\n\r\nAs demonstrated by this whole thread, one
    category to avoid are clients with visions of exactly what they want and who expect
    it at bargain rates. These clients are usually too heavily invested to relinquish
    enough control to enable a designer to succeed at any price. They expect designers
    to climb inside their heads and give birth to their brainchild (which is usually
    a rehash of something they've seen somewhere else). When the project fails, as
    it usually does, they will always blame the designer, refuse to pay, and feel
    perfectly justified in doing so.\r\n\r\nThese clients are sincere, but usually
    leave a string of frustrated and unpaid designers in their wake. They often tell
    stories of the \"untalented\" and \"lazy\" designers they've hired in the past.
    They're usually extremely picky about specific and largely unimportant details.
    They expect endless revisions with no additional compensation and seem oblivious
    that they're wasting your time. If you bring up the time factor, they'll go on
    the offensive and accuse you of wasting <em>their</em> time by not giving them
    what they wanted in the first place.\r\n\r\nWhat they never admit to are their
    own shortcomings as clients. They view designers as hired pairs of hands who are
    mostly just supposed to implement and enhance their pre-existing visions. They
    hire \"production artists,\" and expect them to flesh out their impractical or
    unworkable ideas. They never realize that their micromanagement and flawed expectations
    are usually to blame for their bad luck in working with artists. They rarely even
    realize that they are micromanagers. \r\n\r\nThis, however, makes it easy for
    you, the designer, to spot them in advance. The warning signs, without exception,
    are always there and will become obvious during your initial visit if you ask
    the right questions. When you see the warning signs, it's time to say, \"Thanks,
    but I'm not interested.\" Leave on good terms, but don't look back. Fooling yourself
    by thinking that you can work with them will only result in frustration, wasted
    time and too little compensation."
  created: '2007-01-20 02:19:38'
- author:
    name: inarges
    picture: 109620
  body: "Jspass, I agree with everything Thylacine said above. In addition, my experience
    has been not only \"you get what you pay for\" but \"you VALUE what you pay for\"
    - don't make the mistake of thinking that working for cheap will endear you to
    your clients. The fact is, people are conditioned to value things partly by the
    price that is asked.\r\n\r\nIf you ask too little for your services, unfortunately,
    some clients will associate your low price with low value - and they won't be
    as respectful of your time as they would if it were costing them more dearly.
    Obviously, clients have different budgets and if you're just starting out you'll
    probably have to be a little cheaper for a while - but don't give it away!\r\n\r\nI
    have never and will never work on spec."
  created: '2007-01-20 05:45:39'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: 'Here''s another bit of advice, Jspass: when working with a new, unknown client,
    always make clear that you charge one-third of the total cost upfront, before
    making even one sketch. It makes both sides, client and designer, be committed.
    And it will save you countless trouble.'
  created: '2007-01-20 06:20:41'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "100% on the money advice from Thylacine there. Print it out and hang it on
    your wall!\r\n\r\nIf you have no choice but to work for a client of this kind
    (say it's been passed onto you by someone else, or you've already committed yourself
    and noticed the warning signs too late) in my experience the only way of dealing
    with it is to grit your teeth, forget about it ending up in your portfolio, cancel
    everything else for a few days, tell them you charge per hour for rush (it will
    always be) exclusive/on call/evening production work, and double your rate."
  created: '2007-01-20 14:25:24'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Cory, you should write a manual! I could help you and send you some examples
    to illustrate your points. I had a meeting with a client once and when we started
    discussing money he said: well, it's good for you to have a company like mine
    on your portfolio, you know. Eeeeeeekkkkk...[sound of tyres skidding]\r\nIf the
    client says: \"we have been trying to develop our visual identity for 10 years
    now but never found the right person\", RUN. There's a reason the client can't
    find the right person. \r\n"
  created: '2007-01-21 12:49:00'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "You can thank the many who brought in the electronic age and it's side effect
    of ruining what used to run very smoothly.\r\n\r\nIn the \"olden\" days - we had
    Art Directors who paid their dues to get to the spot they were in. We had Production
    Directors, who even when they had their job, they continued to be educated in
    the latest papers, printing presses, inks, etc. We had bullpens, where the young,
    bright and best from art schools would work together, helping each other with
    design thoughts. There were many checkpoints along the way. A basic comp, approval,
    execution. Ah, execution - is what happened to it. These persons working had outside
    suppliers - folks who very seriously took their careers. Many started as apprentices
    and worked their way up to journeymen. The artists and production people relied
    on the professionals.\r\n\r\nIn fact, the whole industry relied on professionals.
    Literally hundreds of years of experience (from those who had the experience)
    went into every design piece.\r\n\r\nYou, Sativo, are now seeing the new end product.
    Anyone who has made an investment in a computer can be a designer... Good luck.\r\n\r\nAND
    P.S. Give those folks a reason why you cancelled - select one winner, pay them
    the $300 PROMISED -- and say the contest is over. You don't have to use their
    work - but god damn - be a person of your word and fork over the funds and name
    the winner on your site.\r\n\r\nNew question - Are you stale? Are you really a
    designer? You look as if you want new ideas to help you design. I remember your
    first \"contest\" select a name for the site - did anyone ever win that one?\r\n\r\nCome
    to think of it - have you ever really helped a young designer? All of this looks
    like you are more of a user of young designers..."
  created: '2007-01-21 14:37:19'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>If the client says: \u201Cwe have been trying to develop our visual
    identity for 10 years now but never found the right person\u201D, RUN. There\u2019s
    a reason the client can\u2019t find the right person.</cite>\r\n\r\nSpot on! I
    had a client once who couldn't even come up with a name for his business and that
    was a huge warning flag to me. Quoted triple my fee, that was the end of him.\r\n\r\n(oh
    yeah, Sativo couldn't come up with a name either... funny that)\r\n\r\nI also
    had a client who was on the second redesign (third design in all) of her product
    packaging. Was she indecisive or did she just have terrible judgment? Hard to
    know; we parted ways when she couldn't articulate her ideas, just that vague \"It's
    still not there yet\" thing. But I got the 1/3 up front."
  created: '2007-01-21 15:56:31'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Patty -\r\n\r\nDesigners are taught not to work on spec. They do however,
    work on reject fees. A price is set for the job - you don't like the work you've
    hired to do - depending on the arrangement or the year, it's 30% to 40% of that
    price to pay for the work you've asked for.\r\n\r\n1/3 upfront - most likely constitutes
    that reject fee if they don't use the work you've submitted, and takes them off
    any further financial responsibility.\r\n\r\nAnd yes, I don't know about you -
    but when you work with a pain in the butt - a reject fee is as good as KY."
  created: '2007-01-21 17:08:56'
- author:
    name: TGaskin
  body: "As a design student, I am offended by such \"contests\". It is not a contest,
    it is a poor excuse to get something for free. At my school, we are discouraged
    from taking part in these types of activities. I hope you are not part of AIGA
    as I belive they do not allow designers to do this type of \"spec work\". You
    should be ashamed of yourself.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-21 21:08:47'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Yes, Jackie, I know. I never work on spec. It's important to have a contract
    or agreement in writing and also to get an initial "upfront" payment just to start.
    Sometimes a working relationship has to be dissolved mutually and if there's been
    a minimal payment nobody feels ripped off. I'm very specific in my contracts and
    break down the work as much as possible so that the client is not freaked by a
    big number but understands exactly what the job involves.
  created: '2007-01-22 02:30:46'
- author:
    name: circehouse
    picture: 112151
  body: "Sativo\u2014you asked a question, and got an answer. In fact it looks like
    it's largely a collectively agreed upon answer and one you don't agree with. What
    did you expect? If you can't take the critique, than don't ask stupid questions.
    You're the one with the problem. We're explaining WHY it's a problem. Regardless,
    the problem is yours. If you don't want to solve it and would rather compain and
    vent, start a blog. Nobody here wants to bicker about something you are clearly
    and stubbornly refusing to come to terms with. "
  created: '2007-01-22 03:05:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "So who won your \"name the company\" contest Sativo?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-22 03:24:39'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Great question Chris - anyone see the $250 bucks promised?\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/29587\r\n\r\nChris
    did you ever hear from him about all the names you proposed for it?\r\n\r\nAnyone?"
  created: '2007-01-22 03:58:37'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Update from sitepoint.com:\r\n\r\n\"Contest Cancelled\r\nThis contest has
    been cancelled. Entries are no longer being accepted.\r\nPlease see the comments
    for more information, or... \""
  created: '2007-01-22 04:47:18'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I hope you are not part of AIGA as I belive they do not allow designers
    to do this type of \u201Cspec work\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhile the AIGA does actively
    discourage working on spec, it does not demand that members do not. "
  created: '2007-01-22 04:55:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>anyone see the $250 bucks promised?</em>\r\n\r\nTypophile \"resolution\"
    apparently non-binding :-)\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-22 05:09:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Jackie,\r\nI never heard a peep about the list of names I suggested. Seems
    to me it must have been a bogus contest. Perhaps Sative should just divvy up the
    $250 evenly between all who submitted.\r\n\r\nBTW, my furnace croaked last night
    during the coldest day of the year. I am having a contest to see who can come
    fix it the fastest.  The winner will get my share of Sativo's $250 name contest.
    \ Any takers? Step right up.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-22 13:51:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">my furnace croaked \r\n\r\nChris, the whole frog thing is out of control.
    Frog typeface, brilliant. Frog mascot, OK. But the idea of using frogs to blow
    hot air through your house--just too much :) "
  created: '2007-01-22 14:06:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!!\r\nI should just invite Sativo over to my house.  I am sure he can
    blow much more hot air than any frog or other life form for that matter :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-22 14:10:51'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "I havn't heard anything about the company name contest either :(\r\n\r\nand
    my suggestions were clearly the best ;)\r\n\r\nMaybe that 'contest' was cancelled
    too, but the rules stated...\r\n\r\n<em>\"All submissions must be made prior to
    Jan 30, 2007!\"</em>\r\n\r\n...so maybe it's still running.\r\n\r\nCome on then
    everyone, let's all make one last big effort to see if we can come up with that
    name shall we? You know it's worth it.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-22 15:11:08'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nI must ask what it is with you and frogs. (I lost my dearest
    friend two years ago - and art director and avid frog collector...)\r\n\r\nMeanwhile,
    I can sympathize. I'm in the South. My A/C Heating unit died a few nights back.
    I called my guy - 20 minutes later he was here (and no, he isn't a New Yorker
    at all), the next day they sent 2 guys over to install a new compressor - and
    hey, only 1/10 the cost of a new unit... trick is... o/~ you have to have a contract
    if you want to stay ahead... you can bump, you can.... lol\r\n\r\n\r\nMeanwhile
    for the Russian Market name contest how about\r\nCHEAP GUYS...?"
  created: '2007-01-22 15:15:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The company name should be \"Hot Air\" or \"Beau Gus\"\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS:
    Wormwood's bio is an absolute scream. I highly recomend it for a an uplifting
    moment in your day :-) Well done Jon!"
  created: '2007-01-22 15:20:47'
- author:
    name: Chris Cleary
  body: "Sativo's doing too much sativa. \r\n\r\nI completely agree with Thylacine
    and inarges.\r\n\r\nReminds me of an advertising copywriter who wanted me to do
    some work on the cheap, branding his start-up agency, on the grounds that he'd
    give me lots of work once they got established. The first time we met to discuss
    some early ideas, he realised he had forgotten to go to the ATM and could I pay
    for the drinks...\r\n\r\nNeedless to say I professed to being too busy to continue
    the relationship."
  created: '2007-01-22 15:27:58'
- author:
    name: fractal
    picture: 110979
  body: "I love you people!\r\n\r\npd"
  created: '2007-01-22 16:46:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Meanwhile for the Russian Market name contest how about\"\r\n\r\nRippinov
    & Scaminsky's Blackmarket Boutique\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-22 16:54:03'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: 'Hey, that''s trademark violation: I''m going to sic my law firm (Dewey, Cheatem,
    and Howe) after you...  ;-)'
  created: '2007-01-22 16:56:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "And I am going to get the CarTalk guys to sue you for stealing their lawyer
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-22 17:06:10'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Thanks Chris. I'm glad my bio amused you, you heartless b*****d.\r\n\r\nThe
    pain is still too raw. Please, I beg of you, don't mention the spoons. They forever
    haunt my darkest hours... sob... sob... the spoons, please, not the spoons again...
    sob...\r\n\r\n;(\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "Spoons?\r\n\r\n>:)"
    created: '2007-01-22 18:02:14'
  created: '2007-01-22 17:58:17'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: 'You''ve got to read Jon''s bio: it''s a blast.  ;-)'
  created: '2007-01-22 18:04:14'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "\"rare allergy to concave surfaces\"\r\n\r\nOMG that is, for some reason,
    just so wrong. He was actually raised by a pack of wild mad libs, I think.\r\n\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2007-01-22 18:44:29'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "<em>rare allergy to concave surfaces</em>\r\n\r\nNow this sounds like a true
    typographer who got stuck on a VGC Typositor machine - and couldn't figure out
    which was the concave lens to put on the darn machine!!! LOL\r\n\r\nI knew many
    fine typographers who developed that same allergy...\r\nSome even went beyond
    and became allergic to the convex lenses too!"
  created: '2007-01-22 18:55:31'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "<em>\"OMG that is, for some reason, just so wrong. He was actually raised
    by a pack of wild mad libs, I think.\"</em>\r\n\r\nWhat's a wild mad lib?"
  created: '2007-01-22 19:12:34'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<a href=\"http://us.penguingroup.com/static/packages/us/yreaders/madlibs/fun.html\">Harmless
    children's toy</a>\r\n+\r\n<a href=\"http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/236\">obscure
    zoomorphic/lit reference</a>\r\n=\r\nStrange, funny profile?"
  created: '2007-01-22 19:33:14'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: MadLib's used to amuse me for hours. Oh the days of innocent and inexpensive
    child entertainment. -- This was before kids had DVD players in the back of each
    headrest and hanging from the roof. :^/
  created: '2007-01-22 21:44:35'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>This was before kids had DVD players in the back of each headrest and
    hanging from the roof. :^/</em>\r\n\r\nTiff, are you from the future?"
  created: '2007-01-23 01:08:41'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Oh tell the truth - as kid's we filled in the blanks with dirty words - and
    had a great time with them... and as we became adults Mad Lib even came out with
    an X-rated version for us :-)\r\n\r\nLOL"
  created: '2007-01-23 01:53:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Tiff,\r\nLuckilly my kids loved books and being read to more than anything--that
    and storytelling.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-23 02:03:56'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: My 5 year old got both a book of madlibs AND the DVD player that sits on the
    back of the headrest for xmas. I prefer the MadLibs.
  created: '2007-01-23 15:19:16'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I might have generalized a bit, but I'm always surprised as I drive around
    at night to see so many SUVs with screens playing in the headrest or from the
    roof. I hope I never get to the point where I want to ignore any children I might
    have enough to plug a mobile phone into my  ear and plug them into DVD players
    just for a simple ride to the mall!
  created: '2007-01-23 18:10:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Move to a neighborhood where you can walk to the shops. Strollers don't come
    with DVD players -- yet :-)
  created: '2007-01-23 19:00:59'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Funny Nick!!\r\n\r\nSeriously, perhaps I came across a teensy bit self-righteous.
    I have to apologize. I do understand needing entertainment for the kids on long
    road trips. If you or yours chooses the DVD method I can't hate on that. I might
    do the same. (Although in a handheld device not an in-built screen. I can't afford
    to pimp my ride.) \r\n\r\nBut, BUT, that said, I think there are many others way
    to entertain and I'm thankful for all the reading I did on long trips to Vegas
    to visit my grandparents. (Although I'm sure my parents aren't so pleased that
    I was reading Anne Rice and Stephen King.)"
  created: '2007-01-23 21:56:46'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I hope I never get to the point where I want to ignore any children I might
    have\"\r\n\r\nAnyone thinking of having kids believes strongly that too much TV
    is evil. Then they HAVE kids. Their mind changes at that point. ;o)"
  created: '2007-01-23 22:07:03'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>I do understand needing entertainment for the kids on long road trips.
    </em>\r\n\r\nWe went on long car trips when I was a kid: there's nothing wrong
    with playing good games like \"spot the licence plate\" or \"count the number
    of deer/moose/elk on the mountain roads\" or that old fave \"I spy....\"  \r\n\r\nHeck,
    back in the dark ages, we didn't even have music driving through the mountains
    because there was no radio reception.  Kids these days....  ;-)"
  created: '2007-01-23 22:10:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Modern driving isn't that interesting.\r\nWhen I was a child in the UK ('50s
    and '60s) we used to play \"legs\", which involved spotting pub signs and scoring
    depending on how many legs were in the name. (Bricklayers Arms = 0, Hare & Hounds
    = 24 [max]). But now with all the motorways and bypasses, it doesn't work."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: legs?
    created: '2007-01-23 23:19:35'
  created: '2007-01-23 22:56:45'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Hare = 4, Hounds = at least 2 which equals 8, but there must be a limit so
    it is 24. I can imagine enjoying that game. Ehehe.
  created: '2007-01-23 23:35:00'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Heh. That was my first guess, but the 24 threw me off there. In the back
    of the ol' LTD, things would have degraded quickly into a debate if my big sister
    had tried to claim any more than 12 total for that. In the end, it would be all
    settled by stealthy shin kicks. Except that Nick is right, at least in America,
    most driving is quite dull thanks to the interstates. Might try that game out
    sometime, here in town.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2007-01-23 23:42:39'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "In the metro areas we played a game called \"alphabet\". You could use letters
    on anything outside of the car. Using the same letter fromt he same word is not
    allowed. Whoever arrived at z first wins.\r\n\r\nWow we really do derail threads.
    Ehehe. But at least this is a positive derail."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "I don't mind how the discussion shifted here at all! Things were a bit
      grim earlier on. Actually, I don't usually mind, as I can always 'scroll up'
      any thread, and the twists of conversation bring new voices that sometimes then
      comment on the original topics.\r\n\r\nThe games I remember most were 'Beaver'
      where you yelled out if you were the first to spot an agreed target (RVs, owls,
      etc.) for points. I remember my parents would sometimes join in with an 'outside
      the box' entry. They would spot things like a \"Beaver Brand\" RV, or a billboard
      of an owl, with an owl on it. The ocaisonal game of Alphabet evolved to allow
      the use of natural features, if they were indisputable (like  the 'W' in Mad
      Mad.. World)."
    created: '2007-01-24 00:05:52'
  created: '2007-01-23 23:47:07'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: OH! Beaver. My family plays that one. But it is specific to hay on a trailer
    or truck and gray horses, cows and sheep. But I think this is because my grandpa
    was an agriculturalist and grew up a farm boy.
  created: '2007-01-24 00:10:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Tickle Buggy Rag Top!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-24 00:59:36'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Then there was geography - We start with any city, state, country, etc. -
    whatever the last letter of the name was - the next person used it as the first
    letter in the next name...\r\n\r\nAnd being New Yorkers - we played Broadway show
    tunes. We'd name a musical - and each took turns singing a song from it - the
    last person to remember a song got the point and picked the next play.\r\n\r\nGee,
    I forgot about being a kid and driving through the mountains of PA -- and the
    tunnels... absolutely no reception. I'm on satellite radio now, it is a different
    world - oh, and the pups just like being in the car, they don't play any games...\r\n\r\nAnyone
    ever play the unfortunate Volkswagen game? Spot one and punch! OUCH...."
  created: '2007-01-24 03:01:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Anyone ever play the unfortunate Volkswagen game?\"\r\n\r\nThat is the
    same as Tickle Buggy Ragtop. In our version, the first one to spot a VW beetle
    got to tickle the others.  If you spotted a convertable VW it was worth 10 tickles
    and icecream.\r\n\r\nI also remember the 7 PA Turnpike tunnels. My favorite was
    the Tuskarora.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-24 03:08:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Anyone ever play the unfortunate Volkswagen game?\"\r\n\r\nThat is the
    same as Tickle Buggy Ragtop. In our version, the first one to spot a VW beetle
    yelled out \"Tickle Buggy\" and got to tickle the others.  If you spotted a convertable
    VW, you yelled \"Tickle Buggy Ragtop\"-- it was worth 10 tickles and icecream.\r\n\r\nI
    also remember the 7 PA Turnpike tunnels. My favorite was the Tuskarora.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-24 03:11:24'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "When we used to drive west from Calgary, you'd lose the radio within 30 minutes.
    \ If you were lucky, there was something in Kamloops, and then once you got within
    an hour of Vancouver.  For a 14-hour drive (in those days) with two adults and
    one kid, you learned to improvise real fast.\r\n\r\n\"Counting the animals\" was
    real popular: we once had 200 bighorn sheep...."
  created: '2007-01-24 03:16:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "In 1956, which was, um, a little while ago, my parents packed us four kids
    in the station wagon and drove all the way from Illinois out to LA, via the southern
    route, and back along the northern route. And yes, children, that was before the
    Interstate system. We saw relatives in LA, a lot of national parks, and a bunch
    of very weird exhibits in gas stations out West: cages full of mountain lions,
    huge paper mache cowboys, etc. etc. \r\n\r\nThat summer the big hit for a few
    weeks was 'Tranfusion', a song which I have NEVER heard repeated since. Here is
    a bit of its lyrics, thanks to the internet:\r\n\r\n\"Toolin' down the highway
    doin' 79\r\nI'm a twin-pipe papa and I'm feelin' fine\r\nHey man, dig that --
    was that a red stop sign?\r\n\r\n\"[squeeeeeeeal ... kee-RASH!]\r\n\r\n\"Transfusion,
    transfusion\r\nI'm just a solid mess of contusions\r\nNever never never gonna
    speed again.\r\nSlip the blood to me, Bud.\"  \r\n\r\nIt went on like this with
    verses about \"passing the truck on the hill ahead\" \"out-a my way I don't drive
    with my horn\", each ending with a screech of tires and a loud crash, and another
    'transfusion': \"slip the juice to me Bruce.\" \r\n\r\nIn my 12 year old mind,
    this was quite wonderful, and it inspired me to sing a bit and imitate the screeching
    and crashing sound every time we crossed a railroad tracks. And since this was
    pre-interstate, there were a LOT of railroad tracks crossing the roads, and we
    did travel probably 5,000 miles. \r\n\r\nSo there is Billy with his crashing sounds
    and my brothers equally rambunctious, and our little sister being sweet and agreeable.
    My parents for some reason did not strangle me for this incredibly annoying behavior.
    Here it is fifty years later, and I remember that trip with love and gratitude. "
  created: '2007-01-24 03:56:27'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "My kids counted 200 Christmas light stars between airport and home on the
    way back from our New Year's break this month. Poor taxi driver!\r\n\"I spy\"
    is our regular way to keep out boredom when waiting for a bus (we don't even own
    a car, don't need one)."
  created: '2007-01-24 07:50:15'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "we used to play 'corners' as kids. Baasically when you go  around a corner
    you exaggerate the g-force and squish your brother or sister against the door!
    of course is it best to be in the middle. It was only good till the old man told
    us to shut up or he'd stop and we'd have to get out and walk!\r\n\r\nMuzz"
  children:
  - author:
      name: andrew_baker
      picture: 110232
    body: Heheh Muzz. Me and my brother never waited for corners, We would smash into
      each other until someone yelped, and the big hand from the front seat clamped
      down on a leg. "Knock it off!" I guess that's not really a game.
    created: '2007-01-24 17:18:25'
  created: '2007-01-24 08:03:30'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "OK this will date me but my brother and I used to sit in the back seat flashing
    peace signs at other cars. Many/most of them returned the favor. The ones who
    didn't, we'd morph the peace sign into \"the bird\". \r\n\r\nWe'd also sing! And
    none of us can carry a tune but who cares. Lots of Joan Baez in those days.\r\n\r\nWhen
    we got older we played a guessing game called Botticelli."
  created: '2007-01-24 17:12:30'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "We played a version of the VW game. I guess we were more violent though.
    We called it \"slug bug\". If you saw a \"bug\" you got to \"slug\" your neighbor.\r\n\r\nWe
    also played a game called \"padiddle\". If you saw a car with one light you hit
    the roof of the car, or if you were crossing railroads you lift your feet up.
    It was dangerous on occasions. At one point, late one night out with friends,
    my friends and I completely ruined the interior roof of my friends old car. Not
    so funny the next morning."
  created: '2007-01-24 17:19:25'
- author:
    name: andrew_baker
    picture: 110232
  body: "I don't know if it's an adaptation, but in Punch Buggy, do you call out a
    color too, and you keep punching til the opponent calls doorknob and touches a
    doorknob. Maybe that was just our car.\r\n\r\nWe did license plates too. I think
    we got 45 states on our cross country trip."
  created: '2007-01-24 17:24:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ya see, DVD player, we don't need no stinkin' DVD Player!\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-24 17:37:17'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: We also called ours "Punch Buggy."
  created: '2007-01-24 18:40:10'
- author:
    name: sativo
  body: "No one won the contest 'cause you guys came up with sh*tty names.\r\n\r\nAs
    for the design issue, fyi.. problem solved: free-lance.ru\r\n\r\nCheers snobs.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-25 03:32:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "PaLeeze, don't bother trying to rationalize your bogus con game and go back
    to selling used cars where you fit right in.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-25 03:49:42'
- author:
    name: sativo
  body: I'll leave the bogus rationalizing to you.  Pretentious pin-head.
  created: '2007-01-25 04:29:40'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Wow. an ignorant personal insult to an entire community. Impressive.~
  created: '2007-01-25 04:39:28'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "Awesome sativo! I knew you'd be reading this still. You really are a fool.
    Poor little baby couldn't decide on a name, made a competition, then no-one else's
    name was good enough! HA! Cracks me up. the very best of luck with your little
    website. I hope your clients treat you like you treat you 'lucky' comptetion entrants.\r\n\r\nMuzz"
  created: '2007-01-25 05:07:42'
- author:
    name: sativo
  body: "Actually, I haven't been reading it.  Just stumbled in for something else
    and thought I'd take a peek for a good laugh.  You guys crack me up!  You're so
    sad in your little microcosmic design culture.  Hope you find that cure for cancer
    sometime soon!  Haha!\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-25 05:15:34'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "From the naming contest: \"At this point, I can only offer the honor code
    and perhaps make the argument that $250.00 is not a large enough sum of money
    for us weasel out of making payment.\"\r\n\r\nFucking honour code indeed.\r\n\r\nMuzz"
  created: '2007-01-25 05:17:33'
- author:
    name: sativo
  body: "Umm.. no one won the contest.  I'd pay if they had.\r\n\r\nTry to not to
    get distracted Muze -- read the posts."
  created: '2007-01-25 05:42:44'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Boy, who'd have seen that coming? Oh, wait-\r\n\r\n\"I imagine you can even
    proclaim finally that none are worthy of the prize,\"\r\n\r\nOr,\r\n\r\n\"then
    deem all of them non-winners and forfeit ever paying anything\"\r\n\r\nAfter extending
    your ,ahem, \"banner ad\" contest, you canceled with no notice, despite dozens
    and dozens of man hours spent. No explanation, no apology. And then you secretly
    canceled your naming contest (on several sites) in a fit of semi-intelligence.\r\n\r\nIt's
    not a contest if no one wins. It is sleazy, a scam, sad exploitation, and there
    are even laws against it. Your behavior, true to form, is why people here advised
    you not doing it, and others not falling for your manipulations. Go have fun raping
    the efforts of free-lance.ru's members. I imagine your phony dollars trade very
    strongly there.\r\n\r\nAnd, while I am quoting myself,\r\n\r\n\"Goodbye.\""
  created: '2007-01-25 06:39:13'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Hey, everybody, coincidence or no, <strong>Unbeige</strong> has a post about
    this very subject, i.e., <a href=\"http://www.mediabistro.com/unbeige/web/wanted_you_to_feel_really_dumb_about_doing_spec_work_51734.asp\"
    target=\"_blank\">spec work</a>.\r\n\r\nCheck it out, and be sure to see the <a
    href=\"http://newyork.craigslist.org/mnh/crg/266662037.html\" target=\"_blank\">craigslist
    ad</a> that the article quotes."
  created: '2007-01-25 07:27:41'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "A side note to Sativo\r\n\r\nWe are not children here - and we are certainly
    not snobs.\r\n\r\nSome of us have worked very hard in the graphic arts business
    - we've watched the entire industry change. But somethings never change, and many
    of us have \"been around the block.\"\r\n\r\nAs young designers we had to watch
    the who we can trust, and what we should stay away from. You Sativo - have all
    the signs of our youth - and we shall stay away."
  created: '2007-01-25 09:28:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I hold my snobby pinhead high,\r\nwhile boorish con-men say goodbye,\r\nWhile
    Sativo's words and deeds are crass,\r\nWe'll let the door slam him on the...\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-25 13:04:04'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Sorry Chris,\r\n\r\nEven you are no snob...\r\n\r\nAs we age we have certain
    undeniable rights...\r\n\r\nand the youth of today just don't get it!\r\n\r\nMaybe
    it all comes down to \"experience.\""
  created: '2007-01-25 13:36:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Jackie,\r\nThere are also plenty of very fine and caring youth of
    today (including many who frequent this forum). There were just as many examples
    of maggott-breath scum like Sativo in my generation too--that is how us old fossils
    got our experience :-) \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-25 13:46:18'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: I'm glad we are doing our part to help the young pups know to stay away from
    the big, bad wolf...
  created: '2007-01-25 13:50:51'
- author:
    name: andrew_baker
    picture: 110232
  body: "\"You\u2019re so sad in your little microcosmic design culture.\"\r\n\r\nYou
    have been a part of this community for 3 years and 20. Remember that.\r\n\r\nAlso
    given your comments, I find your advice in this post very interesting.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/1825"
  children:
  - author:
      name: sativo
    body: "I'm not opposed to getting paid for work produced -- especially if it's
      market quality.\r\n\r\nAnd you're right, I have been part of this community
      for a while.  I myself have also been a designer for a while.  But there's three
      things going on here:\r\n\r\n1. An argument being made against \"spec\" work.\r\n2.
      A bunch of red-herrings to throw any reasonable discussion off track.\r\n3.
      Abusive, teen-age b.s.\r\n\r\nAs for #3, I admit, I let mysself get suckered
      into it.  It's a little hard not to when after posting a questions to a community
      one has belonged to for so long, the first thing I get as a response is a deluge
      of insults and attitude.\r\n\r\nAs for #2, too many issues to cover.  But on
      the point of contests:\r\n\r\nThe naming contest was perhaps a misnomer.  I
      should have just said, \"hey, I'll give x dollars to someone who can come up
      with a name for us -- any takers?\"  While there were some names that I found
      interesting (those I commented on), in the end, none of the suggested names
      were selected.  Otherwise, as I spelled out in the \"rules\" so to speak, I
      would have registered the name -- which was one sure fire way the contestant
      would have claim toward the winnings.\r\n\r\nAs for the sitepoint contest, I
      didn't develop the market.  Sitepoint has a section on their forums that bring
      willing participants together.  I gave it a try because, despite what many of
      you seem to think, not all clients have the luxury of deep wallets and therefore
      are looking to find more affordable solutions.  I took a shot and it didn't
      work out.\r\n\r\nNow, there is a side note to this:  I've also hired designers
      in the conventional way and paid market value in the past.  But I too, as a
      client have been burned.  So just as this original post conjured up memories
      of when you guys were burned from \"bad\" clients experiences, my experience
      with sitepoint conjured memories of when I was burned by bad designers -- people
      who embellish their portfolios claiming their involvement was greater than it
      was, etc.\r\n\r\nI kind of meshed all of those experiences together and made
      my post thinking others would relate -- turns out no one here does -- fine.\r\n\r\nAnd
      now, on to #1:\r\n\r\nYou all may have strong opinions on spec work, and it's
      certainly your right to, but who are you to try to force the hand of others?
      \ It's okay to share your opinions, but c'mon!  The vile and attitude shown
      here was nothing less of mob-mentality.\r\n\r\nLook, despite what you think,
      there is an alternative argument to spec work.\r\n\r\nSpec work is good for
      the market.  It allows low budget companies to engage in giving the design community
      a chance where they may otherwise not have.  If it turns out to be a good experience
      for them, great, everyone is happy.  If not, both parties learned a valuable
      lesson.\r\n\r\nAlso, spec work should be a personal decision.  Feel free to
      share your experiences, but uniting against spec work?  It's a price floor --
      which is BAD for economies.  Anytime you organize and try to artificially influence
      the market, it results in less demand.\r\n\r\nAdditionally, good designers don't
      need to do spec work.  If you're all as good as you think, why worry?  It's
      young and poorly skilled designers who engage in spec work -- and arguably to
      their benefit as it helps give them practice and hopefully they improve their
      skills.\r\n\r\nAs for 3rd world designers -- that's a market too and it's fair
      game.  As a country we're outsourcing more and more... and it's not a bad thing!
      \ Specialization and trade are good things for the economy (look into it).  And
      FYI - their currency is a ratio of ours.  So just because I pay less using the
      US dollar, doesn't mean the value in terms of spending power to them is any
      less (i.e. the sweatshop argument is not valid).\r\n\r\nThere are other points...
      but I'll stop here and leave with one final thought:\r\n\r\nMany of you guys
      who are up-in-arms over this issue might stand to think about why you're so
      upset?  It seems more that you're responding with a knee jerk reaction to past
      experiences where you've had bad clients.  But think about it... those were
      good experiences since you learned a thing or two -- so maybe it's time to let
      it go?!  But more importantly, it takes two to tango.  Bad clients often means
      bad client management skills.  \r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-01-25 15:26:09'
  created: '2007-01-25 14:16:02'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "sativo 19 Nov: <em>\"The Rye Trader has a nice rustic ring to it\"</em>\r\n\r\nsativo
    19 Nov: <em>\"I like Golden Steppes\"</em>\r\n\r\nsativo 30 Nov: <em>\"I like
    some of the ones ... is proposing\"</em>\r\n\r\nsativo 25 Jan: <em>\"No one won
    the contest \u2018cause you guys came up with sh*tty names.\"</em>\r\n\r\nSativo,
    that's one hell of a convenient turnaround in opinion. Is that why you felt relieved
    of the common courtesy of posting a notice here to let us know the contest was
    cancelled early and that no one won?\r\n\r\nSo, tell us, what is the new company's
    name?\r\n\r\nI hope you find what you're looking for at 'www.free-lance.ru'.\r\nYou
    gotta love those flexible freemarket ethics. Maybe checkout 'www.asiandesignersweatshop.com'
    for even better value.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-25 14:47:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Wormwood,\r\nSome of those sweatshop outfits also are connected to some very
    efficient methodic payment collection associates and their deadbeat client list
    is nonexistant. I wonder what their methods are? They seem to collect without
    fail every single time ;-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-25 14:58:16'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Wow. I never would have taken a random Russian on the internet as a cheap
    scam artist. Who'dathunkit?\r\n\r\n(No offense to all you honest Russians...)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: sativo
    body: So you're a racist too.  Nice.
    created: '2007-01-25 15:27:43'
  created: '2007-01-25 15:13:51'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"We are not children here - and we are certainly not snobs.\"\r\n\r\nI dunno
    about that. Designers, myself included, seem to have a strong affection for toys
    by the looks of any cubicle dwelling designer's decorating with figurines, metal
    robots, trading cards and the like. Nothing wrong with that, being creative means
    having a playful mind, right?\r\n\r\nAnd we're definitely snobs. Design snobs.
    We kind of have to be given the massive amounts of crappy design in the world.
    ;o)\r\n\r\nJust as Sativo is a scam artist snob. I'm sure he and his buddies visit
    scamartist.com web forums and laugh at the random honest person who pops in now
    and again as well."
  created: '2007-01-25 15:18:13'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "sativo: <em>\"I\u2019m not opposed to getting paid for work produced \u2014
    especially if it\u2019s market quality.\"</em>\r\n\r\nThe phrase 'market quality'
    doesn't mean anything. If you go to the fish market you're gonna get fish.\r\n\r\n-\r\n\r\nsativo:
    <em>\"Check this out, I put up a contest, so t speak, on sitepoint.com to find
    someone to help with banner ad creation for a site that I do some frelance art
    direction for. Desipite the fairly detailed instructions and feedback that I leave
    for them, not one comes up with anything that resembles professional work.\"</em>\r\n\r\nsativo:
    <em>\"You guys crack me up! You\u2019re so sad in your little microcosmic design
    culture. Hope you find that cure for cancer sometime soon! Haha!\"</em>\r\n\r\nThose
    2 posts gave me a brilliant idea...\r\n\r\nWhy not place a 'Cure Cancer Contest'
    on a medical research forum offering a big cash prize for the winner, of say,
    only half the full commercial value of a cancer cure?\r\n\r\nI bet that would
    be the incentive the top research labs need for them to do their best work."
  created: '2007-01-25 16:47:27'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I gave it a try because, despite what many of you seem to think, not all
    clients have the luxury of deep wallets and therefore are looking to find more
    affordable solutions. I took a shot and it didn\u2019t work out.\"\r\n\r\nFair
    enough. But then why come and complaing about it?\r\n\r\nIt seems as if you learned
    from your own experience that 'design contests' are a really bad deal for both
    parties.\r\n\r\nYou simply can not find good designers via that particular method.\r\n\r\n\"Spec
    work is good for the market.\"\r\n\r\nLook at the architecture industry. It's
    full of spec work and if you look at salaries and the like, it certainly hasn't
    helped that industry.\r\n\r\n\"Also, spec work should be a personal decision.
    Feel free to share your experiences, but uniting against spec work? It\u2019s
    a price floor \u2014 which is BAD for economies.\"\r\n\r\nI think most industry
    professional organizations agreeing not to work for free isn't quite the same
    as price fixing.\r\n\r\n\"Many of you guys who are up-in-arms over this issue
    might stand to think about why you\u2019re so upset?\"\r\n\r\nPeople aren't as
    upset with the concept of spec work as they were with your trolling comments.
    ;o)"
  created: '2007-01-25 17:40:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If you really care about the plight of the poor young and inexperienced designers,
    you would pay them for their work. You care about exploiting them for your own
    profit. You don't give a damn if they can't pay the rent.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-25 18:24:30'
- author:
    name: johnnygriswold
  body: "In theory there's nothing wrong with looking for spec work, but why would
    you come to a forum of professionals and ask how to get unprofessional help on
    the cheap?\r\n\r\nImagine if one of these fine professional designers went to
    a group of YOUR peers and asked how to get as much money for very little design
    effort.\r\n\r\n\"I can't understand why I have herpes... I went to 4th and Market
    and asked for the hottest hooker!\""
  created: '2007-01-25 19:02:18'
- author:
    name: sativo
  body: "\"People aren\u2019t as upset with the concept of spec work as they were
    with your trolling comments.\"\r\n\r\nI disagree.  I think my comments fueled
    the flames, for which I took partial responsibility.  But the main emphasis from
    the community has really been an aversion to spec work and those who seek it.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    if you're going to be honest with yourself, take a look at how people have expressed
    themselves.  People have responded to my post with extreme rudeness!  And yet
    somehow, despite all the moral condemnation, none of you seem to notice. \r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n\"I
    think most industry professional organizations agreeing not to work for free isn\u2019t
    quite the same as price fixing.\"\r\n\r\nWhat do you think Unions do?\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n\"Look
    at the architecture industry. It\u2019s full of spec work and if you look at salaries
    and the like, it certainly hasn\u2019t helped that industry.\"\r\n\r\nMost service
    industries, outside of professional industries (law, medicine, etc), work on spec
    to some extent.  For good or for bad, that's how the market is.\r\n\r\nIn the
    software industry for example, there's a lot of up-front selling and idea sharing.
    \ Often times account managers and sales folks invest a lot of time, energy, and
    money to win a client.\r\n\r\nAs a designer, I'm sure you also provide presentations,
    meet with prospective clients, write proposals, etc.  It's a lot of work... and
    you all do it voluntarily with no guarantee of being payed.\r\n\r\nAs for the
    contests, much of the up-front sales work that designers generally have to do
    is avoided.  It doesn't take much effort to post a forum message saying \"I'm
    in!\"\r\n\r\nThere's a reasonable comparison to be made between the time and energy
    investment in up-front sales and the time and energy investment in participating
    in a contest.\r\n\r\nBut let's be honest here... the real issue is not contests.
    \ The real issue is being tricked into working for nothing and having your ideas
    stolen.  That's what I think of when I hear \"spec work.\"  Clearly there's nothing
    right about that.\r\n\r\nBut that's not what I did.  I engaged in a contest.  And
    I would have gladly paid the winning contestant if there was one.  But they all
    produced shoddy work that I couldn't use -- so I didn't declare a winner.  That's
    how contests work.\r\n\r\nSo keep things in perspective before you run for your
    pitchforks and torches.  Contests are different from the spec work described above
    for the following reasons:\r\n\r\n1. Designers understand coming in that it is
    a contest, which gives them a greater than zero chance of losing.  Those that
    enter contests are prepared to take that risk.  In my case, there was no misrepresentation
    about what the risks vs. rewards of the contest were.\r\n\r\n2. By entering contests,
    designers do not have to engage in any up-front sales activities.  The only effort
    and time they invest is in the work they submit.\r\n\r\n3. As for my case, my
    intentions were sincere -- despite what some of the rabble-raisers on this forum
    would have one believe.   My goal was to find a qualified designer.  If I did,
    that designer would have won the contest plus moving forward I would worked with
    him/her on a hourly or time and materials basis.\r\n\r\n\"You care about exploiting
    them for your own profit. You don\u2019t give a damn if they can\u2019t pay the
    rent.\"\r\n\r\nYou're right.  Their rent is not my problem.  My profit is.\r\n\r\nBut
    that doesn't mean I took advantage of anyone.  Again, I didn't lure anyone in
    under false pretenses.  Everyone knew the rules going in.\r\n\r\n\r\n\"In theory
    there\u2019s nothing wrong with looking for spec work, but why would you come
    to a forum of professionals and ask how to get unprofessional help on the cheap?\"\r\n\r\nI
    actually covered this already.  I came here because I have been a member of this
    community for a while now... and there are many opinions on this forum that I
    respect (some I don't).  I was sure someone has been in a similar situation to
    mine and could offer a constructive suggestion.  I was wrong on both counts."
  created: '2007-01-25 20:28:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"You\u2019re right. Their rent is not my problem. My profit is.\"\r\n\r\nExactly
    my point.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-25 20:49:11'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "In response to your original question:\r\n\r\n<em>Why is it so hard to find
    a good production designer?</em>\r\n\r\nBecause you're a douche-bag."
  created: '2007-01-25 20:57:26'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I see that our troll has switched to a more eloquent approach. This doesn't
    change a thing.\r\n\r\n---\r\nEveryone, everyone, I am having a contest!! $500
    to the person who can guess the number I am thinking of. This contest is of an
    indefinite time, and subject to my admitting you guessed the number I am thinking
    of. Should anything change, prize is forfeit, and I will not explain. The check
    is in the mail, scout's honor.\r\n---\r\n\r\nEven the above ludicrous example
    is a more honest \"contest\". Can we be done with this? He will not concede his
    fraud and the damage he does, nor would I believe him sincere if he did."
  created: '2007-01-25 21:12:14'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Choz - the number you are thinking of is 928\r\n\r\nDon't worry, Porsche
    doesn't make it anymore...\r\n\r\nPlease send $500 to your favorite charity in
    my name - thank you."
  created: '2007-01-25 21:20:52'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I'm sorry, that's not the right guess. Naturally, I can't tell you the right
    number, or you might give the answer away. And hey, I'm on a tight budget here,
    so I couldn't afford to record it elsewhere... but everyone else keep guessing.\r\n\r\n~~\r\nUnfortunately,
    these \"spec\" \"contest\" scams really bum me out. I'd love to run a legit contest
    to promote the snark, but the reputation that con-artists have made in that field
    ruin things for the rest of us. Perhaps I need to charter a Snark Foundation first,
    and put the prize budget in escrow.\r\n\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2007-01-25 21:38:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Terry,\r\nYou not only answered his question quite eloquently but with the
    same word, you also named his new company and bannar ad for him. Well done! So
    how quickly can you mock up an illustration of a douche-bag for him?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-25 22:17:16'
- author:
    name: sativo
  body: "heron2001:\r\n\r\n\"We are not children here\"\r\n\r\nI rest my case."
  created: '2007-01-25 22:34:54'
- author:
    name: fantrom
  body: "sativo:  And now, on to #1:\r\nYou all may have strong opinions on spec work,
    and it\u2019s certainly your right to, but who are you to try to force the hand
    of others? It\u2019s okay to share your opinions, but c\u2019mon! The vile and
    attitude shown here was nothing less of mob-mentality.....\r\n\r\nyada yada yada
    yada yada yada yada yada yada yada yada yada .... more yada yada yada yada yada
    yada yada yada yada even more yada yada yada yada yada yada yada yada yada.\r\n\r\n*
    takes a breather\r\n\r\nyada yada yada yada yada yada yada yada yada yada yada
    yada yada yada yada\r\n\r\n* For the love of Christ can someone stop him from
    babbling on forever PLEEEEASE.\r\n\r\nAnd now to MY concise, brief and eloquent
    response:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.no-spec.com\r\n\r\nREAD THAT in it's entirity and
    then get back to me.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-25 22:48:17'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Well, Chris I'm sure I'd be doing it for free! Seriously...I'm not usually
    the guy who calls people names, but when the shoe fits... There's no point in
    rationalizing with a person like this. \r\n\r\nHe's a deplorable human being,
    and unapologetically so. End of story."
  created: '2007-01-26 02:15:20'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "And at the risk of pointing out the obvious, continuing to point out the
    ethical error of his ways and his relentless defense thereof, is defeating the
    purpose of letting this miserable thread die.\r\n\r\nCan we all please move on
    now?  I'm officially invoking The Silence Brigade...."
  created: '2007-01-26 02:37:30'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I was sure someone has been in a similar situation to mine where they were
    looking for affordable design support.\"\r\n\r\nMost folks in here understand
    that you get what you pay for. If you pay nothing, you don't get anything in return."
  created: '2007-01-26 06:42:51'
- author:
    name: circehouse
    picture: 112151
  body: "ugh. sativo, i'll design that shit for $200 if you agree to shut up.\r\n\r\nedit:
    i'd like to see a few examples of you shutting up before i make any concrete decisions.
    why don't you look up www.shutup.com. do what they do, i like how it sounds."
  created: '2007-01-26 10:50:59'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: 'Excellent! Tyler has agreed to take the job, I''m glad we have this behind
    us. Now that Transfusion story, William! Unbelievable! Made my day! We used to
    travel quite often on the Venice-Bologna highway to visit grandparents (doesn''t
    sound as glamourous as your interstate stories I know but we did have the occasional
    deer or badger too these days)and once, for a change, the thing between me and
    my brothers went out of hand and my father decided to pull-over and stop the blood
    bath by buying some strategic sweets/candies, which we secretely licked and glued
    to the ceiling of my unsuspicious dad''s (brand new) alfa romeo. By the time we
    were in Bologna the whole ceiling was covered by constellations of sticky, colourful
    sweets and the car ruined for good. (edited: it''s roof! Not ceiling...doh! thanks
    Chris)'
  created: '2007-01-26 16:53:42'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Lore - the car wasn't ruined for good...\r\nThat's why we keep restorers
    in business :-)"
  created: '2007-01-26 17:45:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Lore's father's pride-and-joy new Alpha adorned by sticky fingered backseat
    squirmers--oh Dad, poor Dad :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-26 18:18:49'
- author:
    name: iggyboo
    picture: 109930
  body: 'www.nospec.com '
  created: '2007-01-26 18:41:57'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'A friend''s 4 yr old daughter came running up to him all proud, she had just
    scratched her name in the enamel of his brand new SUV with a rock. '
  created: '2007-01-26 18:42:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Maybe the little thing had seen all those Chevy \"Like a Rock\" commercials
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-26 18:52:53'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Chevy! Chevy?\r\nDid someone say <em>Chevy</em>?\r\nI happen to be working
    on part of the GM brand web sites and banners. It's pedal to the metal.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    back to the original post question.\r\nThe really good designers try not to waste
    their time. You make an effort to weed out the bad clients and work hard for your
    good ones."
  created: '2007-01-26 19:06:42'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Please tell GM to stop using frames Norbert! I hate having to use that site.
    And while yer at it tell em to bring back scalable artwork for the love of pete!\r\n\r\n;^D"
  created: '2007-01-26 19:45:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks Lore. \r\n\r\nBy the way the car in that long childhood trip was certainly
    a Chevy wagon--my Uncle was a Chevy dealer. \r\n\r\nDid you ever notice that pop
    singers stopped singing about American cars around 1970, which they did a lot
    before that. I think Janis Joplin's 'Oh Lord, won't you buy me a Mercedes Benz\"
    was the turning point. American cars just lost their 'coolness'. "
  created: '2007-01-26 19:55:07'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Old Elaine Robinson got started in a Ford.
  created: '2007-01-26 19:57:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "But Elaine's Mama got jump-started in an Alpha Romeo Julieta :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-26 20:03:26'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: The Dead Milkmen did their song about a "Bitchin' Camaro" in the mid '80s.
    I don't know of many more recent car songs. I think Escalades get ocassional mention,
    but aren't central characters.
  created: '2007-01-26 21:31:05'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite>A friend\u2019s 4 yr old daughter came running up to him all proud,
    she had just scratched her name in the enamel of his brand new SUV with a rock</cite>\r\nsnif
    snif...thanks Pat, that makes me feel so much better about myself  :)\r\n\r\nand
    I have a lot of respect fo Chevys.\r\n\r\nChris, my father's car was a Giulietta!!!
    Dark Green. A beauty. \r\nOk, the Giulietta wasn't ruined for good but the psychological
    damage should not be underestimated."
  created: '2007-01-26 23:21:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Chris, my father\u2019s car was a Giulietta!!!\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!! There goes
    my bad spelling again :-)\r\nThe psychological damage also extended to your father
    who had to explain the candy-layden roof to the guys he used to brag to when he
    first got the car :-/\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-26 23:45:22'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Kudos to whoever renamed this thread!
  created: '2007-01-26 23:57:21'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Back in the 90's, Cake had a minor hit that helped me realize I was actually
    being hip waiting for mom to fall asleep and scoring the keys to the 67 Dart.\r\n\r\n\"Well
    a lot of good cars are Japanese\r\nBut when we're driving far\r\nI need my baby,
    I need my baby next to me\r\n\r\nStick shifts and safety belts\r\nBucket seats
    have all got to go\r\nWhen I'm driving in my car\r\nIt makes my baby seem so far\"\r\n\r\n\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2007-01-27 02:13:44'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>I happen to be working on part of the GM brand web sites and banners.</em>\r\n\r\nThey've
    got enough to go around I guess! I have also spent many days working on GM materials
    (mainly print though) including some today!\r\n\r\nBTW, who renamed this thread
    and removed the original post? Inquiring minds want to know! :)"
  created: '2007-01-27 02:57:36'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "ditto biddy --\r\n\r\nLooks odd this way...\r\n\r\nand Patty, my heart goes
    out to your poor friend -\r\nbut the good news is the daughter had been learning
    about TYPE..."
  created: '2007-01-27 03:52:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My guess is that this renaming and removal of the original post was the work
    of Sativo. It seems he was giving us a bit of a shot with a snide remark about
    AIGA and their well known anti-specwork stand.  It also removes evidence of his
    contest incase anyone might want to think about legal action. This eternal farse
    would be a fun Judge Judy episode though :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: this thread
    had nearly 4000 reads also and may have damaged his reputation in the design/publishing
    community so this might be damage control."
  created: '2007-01-27 04:59:03'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Makes sense, Chris... I mean... <em> The whole original post is gone!</em>\r\n\r\nToo
    bad for him, he can't delete everyone's replies, or memories."
  created: '2007-01-27 06:25:27'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I suspect he is ashamed or he would not have erased his post. Either that
    or he would like to be able to retell the story along some kind of fictional lines.
  created: '2007-01-27 08:08:03'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "I may not like sativo's ethics, opinions or manners, but changing this thread's
    original title and removing his opening post is just taking the piss and shows
    a complete lack of respect for everyone here.\r\n\r\nI've just noticed he has
    also emptied all his entries on his <strong><em><a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/29587\"
    target=\"_blank\">\"Help us pick a new company name!\"</a></strong></em> thread,
    except for one.\r\n\r\nI quoted sativo's very first paragraph from his original
    post of this thread in one of my earlier posts...\r\n\r\n<strong><em>\"Check this
    out, I put up a contest, so t speak, on sitepoint.com to find someone to help
    with banner ad creation for a site that I do some frelance art direction for.
    Desipite the fairly detailed instructions and feedback that I leave for them,
    not one comes up with anything that resembles professional work.\"</strong></em>\r\n\r\n...and
    I think this thread's original title was something like...\r\n\r\n<strong><em>\"Does
    anyone know how to find a good production designer?\"</strong></em>\r\n\r\nMaybe
    jpad could edit his first post (as he was the first to respond) and put sativo's
    original title and first paragraph above his own entry.\r\n\r\nSo, clearly, they're
    right when they say Denial is not just a river in Egypt. (groan)\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-27 15:11:08'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Does anyone else suspect sativo is not being totally open with us, and that
    \r\n<strong><a href=\"http://therussianstore.com/\" target=\"_blank\">The Russian
    Store</a></strong> now has a name for it's new online craft import business\r\nthat's
    not a million miles away from one that has been suggested here?\r\n\r\nIf he's
    still around I would love for sativo to prove me wrong, and finally tell us what
    their new name is. He appeared to avoid the question when I asked it earlier in
    this thread.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-27 16:06:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Never expect a conman to own up to his own con.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-27 17:28:52'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Right, I hadn't noticed that the original post was gone, just that the title
    of the thread had changed. I thought only moderators could do that.
  created: '2007-01-27 17:31:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Only moderators and the originator of the thread have the ability. Since
    Sativo originated the thread, he had the right to \"edit\" it (in this case delete
    it completely).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-27 20:18:22'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Hmmm...I received an (unsolicited) email today and I was wondering if you
    guys could tell me what are your thoughts. Is this considered spec work? I don't
    want to accuse anyone but all the symptoms are there. Here it goes:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.pedroguitton.com/celebraty_logos/\r\n\r\nIn
    the email, Mr Guitton invites designers (well, anyone really) to submit a logo
    dedicated to the celAbrity (whatever that means) of your choice. He makes clear
    that it's for HIS book so we presume that HE'll make money out of it, right? Then
    again he says the book will be SOLD in 50 countries. He also says it's in occasion
    of the celebration of 15 years of Editora Index Book. (so what?) And he says you
    can join for free!!! What a deal, you don't even have to pay to send work!!\r\n\r\nNow,
    like the good Typophiler I am (you guys are a terrible company I tell ya) I started
    to smell something. I checked the link and immediately the typos (in English AND
    Portuguese) made me slightly sick.The deadline date seems to be wrong since I
    received the email today...When I had a look at the submitted work (I mean Bruce
    Lee, Bill Gates and Co.) then I felt REALLY sick. \r\n\r\nI looked and looked
    and looked but found no sign of financial compensation for the work submitted.
    Not even a hint so again I presume the designer will submit work for the \"glory\".
    It doesn't even say the designer will be credited. \r\n\r\nNow you look at his
    site and he seems to be kosher, I mean he's a designer, teaches etc. respectable
    credencials I guess. But is that right? Am I reading too much into it? I am ready
    to apologise if it turns out I have no reasons to be suspicious, I am not trying
    to start a crusade or something but it doesn't feel right. That's all I am saying.
    What do you guys reckon? Is the disease spreading? Cheers.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-28 01:16:18'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I don't like the looks of it Lore. I am suspicious of anyone who wants me
    to design for free that will be used in a commercial enterprise.\r\n\r\nThe only
    reason I can see to design for free is something like the Type Challenges posted
    here - just a bunch of creatives having fun. Or something for my Mom.\r\n\r\nIf
    someone is going to make money then they need to share it.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-01-28 02:51:14'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Lore, I think that you should trust your misgivings on this one... While
    I don't think that technically this would qualify as spec work, the project does
    indeed sound very sketchy.\r\n\r\nMr. Guitton posted a <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/6741\"
    target=\"_blank\">similar request</a> on this forum in 2004... Interesting, no?
    Kinda makes you want to avoid the whole thing.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, the book
    he was collecting logos for back then, <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Logos-North-America-Pedro-Guitton/dp/8496309142/sr=1-1/qid=1169952330/ref=sr_1_1/104-9672182-5386346?ie=UTF8&s=books\"
    target=\"_blank\">Logos: From North to South America</a>, was actually published.
    I recently saw it at one of the big chain stores... I wish I could say I liked
    what I saw. The cover certainly looked promising. But I didn't see any evidence
    of careful editing, translation, or proofreading, I'm sorry to say. Would you
    want to be in a book like that, even if you did get proper credit?\r\n\r\nLastly,
    I don't know too much about his publisher, <a href=\"http://www.indexbook.com/\"
    target=\"_blank\">Index Books</a>, except that they have offices in Barcelona.
    I've seen some of their other books, too... Like <a href=\"http://www.indexbook.com/libro.php?359\"
    target=\"_blank\">this one</a>, which seems like fun. Maybe they could do one
    on graphic design scam e-mails, too.  ;-D"
  created: '2007-01-28 03:15:32'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Actually Richard you just stirred a memory. I remember him posting here before
    trying to get folks to send him logos for a book. Someone related a story about
    seeing their proposed logo for his book changed slightly and repurposed.\r\n\r\nWhat
    a great way to get lots of new logo designs (or tshirt designs or whatever way
    you want to repurpose them).\r\n\r\nI remember sending him a link to brands of
    the world and telling him mine were posted there. :)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-01-28 03:21:41'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>The only reason I can see to design for free is something like the Type
    Challenges posted here - just a bunch of creatives having fun.</em>\r\n\r\nHear
    hear, Paul. The folks at <a href=\"http://www.underconsideration.com/speakup/\"
    target=\"_blank\">Speak Up</a> do something similar with their monthly <a href=\"http://www.underconsideration.com/speakup/archives/001766.html\"
    target=\"_blank\">Word It</a> challenge: good, clean, designerly fun."
  created: '2007-01-28 03:25:42'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I remember him posting here before trying to get folks to send him logos
    for a book.</em>\r\n\r\nYup, as soon as I saw Lore's question it stirred the same
    memory for me. Your reply was great, and I linked that post above, so that people
    can see it afresh.  :-)"
  created: '2007-01-28 03:28:36'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Well, the world is really small. Amazing. I had no idea he had been here
    before, I should have checked. Thanks for confirming my theories in this thread
    and in the other one.\r\nYeah, no. I really dislike the whole thing. All aspects
    of it, the lack of care, the way the thing is presented, the idea itself. I also
    noticed he really insists on the \"for free\" story in the other thread like we
    should be grateful is not charging us to be in his book or something. Cool, thanks.
    The whole spec work issue and the sativo saga opened my eyes a lot. Here in Brazil,
    this kind of practice is so common that you don't even notice anymore, you end
    up thinking everything is normal.\r\n\r\n<cite>Would you want to be in a book
    like that, even if you did get proper credit?</cite>\r\nHell no. I wouldn't even
    know which celebrety or celebarty or celebraty to pick. The idea!"
  created: '2007-01-28 04:10:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think you are right to stay away from that guy Lore and anything that smells
    as fishy as that.\r\n\r\nNow go have some clean fun :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-28 04:50:17'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I remember it too, and remember ignoring him for the same reasons mentioned
    above.
  created: '2007-01-28 06:27:19'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: Disgraceful what he did with the Benito logo. All my simpathy to David Hubner.
  created: '2007-01-28 12:26:48'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I am opposed to contests for one other reason: I don't like the idea of winners
    and losers in something this subjective. That is ridiculous. Thankfully I am not
    a football player.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-01-28 16:29:21'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "After seeing the examples of the so called logos on that site I thought it
    was a joke. Bruce Lee - Wataaahhh! ??? I'm sure he would be chuffed with that,
    and the Bill Gates Windows logo is simply inspired. Sheeesh!\r\n\r\nAnyone who
    chooses to be involved in this vacuous enterprise deserves to be ripped off. After
    all, the people buying the book will be."
  created: '2007-01-28 18:20:13'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "All I can say about the original post is, if \"sativo\" offers this contest
    with a cash reward, and got lots of entries, the only fair thing to do is to give
    out the prize, even if he doesn't find the best entry to be usable for his purposes.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, last time I ran a contest (to name my blog) I ended up giving out three
    prizes instead of the one I'd advertised, because I decided I wanted to use multiple
    entries in different ways. But I guess that's where our attitudes differ.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-01-28 21:14:06'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "I've gotten a few unsolicited e-mails as well from the same person. Anyone
    else on Typophile received any e-mails from Pedro?\r\n\r\n********\r\n\r\n<em>But
    I guess that\u2019s where our attitudes differ.</em>\r\n\r\nYou're also a real
    person Thomas! We've seen you in the flesh! People are much bolder online, particularly
    when they don't post their real identity. :) "
  created: '2007-01-28 21:25:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thomas is also a man of his word.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-28 21:51:38'
- author:
    name: sativo
  body: "Sheesh.. is this thing still active?\r\n\r\nOkay, it's pretty obvious the
    main players here are people who participated in my naming contest.  The contest
    officially has not ended yet, FYI... so that's why there were no announcements.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    I made it clear that if no names are registered, then that means that no names
    have been selected.  To-date, no names have been selected.  I'm sorry that hurts
    your feelings, but them were the rules.\r\n\r\nAs for your point Thomas.. I appreciate
    your good intentions, but as it turns out, the people on this forum (at least
    most of those involved in this thread) have proven that they are unreasonable.
    \ They aren't willing to hold a rational discussion but are really just looking
    to bash me.  For that reason, I won't be commenting here any further after this
    post.\r\n\r\nBut I did want to point out to you that your argument is a bit of
    a non sequitur.  If you're going to make a claim that your better than me from
    an ethical perspective (and I believe that was one of the intentions of your argument)
    then it would be helpful to form a valid argument.\r\n\r\nTo paraphrase your argument,
    you claim the responsible thing to do in a contest is to select a winner and pay
    him/her even if what he/she submitted was not worthy of ever being used by the
    contest holder.\r\n\r\nAnd to support your conclusion, you used the example that
    you yoursef have paid contestants (even multiple contestants) in a contest that
    you held.  But then you go on to say thay you actually used their work?\r\n\r\nSo
    how does this support your argument?  Do you have an example of holding a contest
    that you paid a winner even if in your mind there was no winner (or a submission
    you will ever use)?\r\n\r\nAnd if if you do have such an example, can you explain
    the rationale behind why a conestant should win when they don't deserve to?"
  created: '2007-01-28 22:23:01'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Priceless! I take that as an announcement\u2026 x^D"
  created: '2007-01-28 23:11:30'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I didn't say that the one followed from the other - indeed, my point was
    to contrast the situation by saying that I found several suitable entries.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"can
    you explain the rationale behind why a conestant should win when they don\u2019t
    deserve to?\"</cite>\r\n\r\nThis isn't obvious? You need to give out the prize
    because you said you would. You should keep your word.\r\n\r\nIn my case, I'm
    not at all sure I was ethically obligated to give out three prizes instead of
    one, but I thought it was the fair thing to do.\r\n\r\nAdded later: I guess one
    point is that when your ethical obligation is unclear, if faced with a decision
    as to whether to err on the side of generosity or stinginess in fulfilling that
    obligation, it's probably a good idea to err on the side of generosity. Especially
    if the situation is a public one!\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  children:
  - author:
      name: sativo
    body: "I couldn't help my self.. just had to reply.\r\n\r\nI never said I'd pay
      if there wasn't a winner -- on here or sitepoint.  In fact, sitepoint was designed
      to allows contest holders to cancel a contest if there are no winners.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
      we should define we mean by contest.  You're thinking of a pagant.  Where people
      enter and the best one of the group is guaranteed to win.\r\n\r\nWhen I offered
      a contest to name our company, the terms were that the winning name will be
      declared if it is registered.  I don't need names that I'm not going to use.
      \ I'm not holding the contest for sport or some unlrelated promotion.  My goal
      was to find a name for my company.  That didn't happen so there were no winners.\r\n\r\nSame
      with this the sitepoint contest.  It wasn't a promotional event.  I had a very
      specific need.. which wasn't met.\r\n\r\nMaybe the term contest just isn't the
      right thing to call these things.  On the one hand, I suppose it is a competition..
      but on the other hand, I'm not going to hand out \"prize\" money if I didn't
      feel anyone won.\r\n\r\nIn both cases, I received a bunch of submissions that
      jsut were not what I needed.  Sorry guys, but you just didn't nail it.  I'm
      not going to be forced to pick one anyway.  That would be silly.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-01-29 00:04:45'
  created: '2007-01-28 23:27:50'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Sativo, have you had much success in fooling others with your self righteous
    drivel?\r\n\r\nIf the <strong ><a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/29587\" target=\"_blank\">&#8220;Help
    us pick a new company name!&#8221;</a></strong> contest hasn't ended then why
    have you deleted your posts from it?\r\n\r\nIt appears you are only now choosing
    to selectively address a side issue because you think that by deliberately missunderstanding
    Thom's post you can finally achieve some kind of moral or intellectual high ground.\r\n\r\nAfter
    deleting posts, renaming threads and ignoring simple questions, do you not realise
    how stupid, arrogant and petty that is?\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: sativo
    body: The contest is over.  It wasn't over.. but believe me, it is now!  You have
      yourself to thank for that.
    created: '2007-01-29 00:53:15'
  created: '2007-01-29 00:05:13'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Anyone else on Typophile received any e-mails from Pedro?</em>\r\n\r\nYup,
    me too, Terry. And it went to the address I have listed here on Typophile.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-29 00:38:57'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "No, sativo, <em><strong>thank you</em></strong>.\r\n\r\nYou're still avoiding
    my question. I shall rephrase it. Why did you delete your posts from the <strong><a
    href=\"http://typophile.com/node/29587\" target=\"_blank\">'Help us pick a new
    company name!'</a></strong> contest's thread before it was over?\r\n\r\nBe sure
    to let us know that new company name.\r\n\r\nBTW, is that your binky on the floor?\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-29 01:29:57'
- author:
    name: sativo
  body: I'm not the one that's been crying bro.  Believe me, outside of this virtual
    play room where you actually have a few friends.. you're kind of joke.
  created: '2007-01-29 01:36:59'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Thomas is also a man of his word.</em>\r\n\r\nSativo, on the other hand,
    just tries to have the last word.\r\n\r\n:-D"
  created: '2007-01-29 05:39:57'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Actually, I'll freely grant that if the contest info suggested that there
    wouldn't necessarily be a winner, there'd be no reason for sativo to award a prize.
    If that was clear, Sativo did nothing wrong by not awarding a prize.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-01-29 07:25:03'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "So, I've urged you to go elsewhere, but you are still lurking. And changing
    your story. I'm going to explain this, because not everyone has the same degree
    of understanding of why there is a problem. I'll try to use examples a lot.\r\n\r\n<em>Analogy
    time: I am holding a race, for a prize of a $5000. The person who gets the farthest
    wins, assuming I approve of the method of travel. It's my contest and my prize,
    so it is fair I'll judge, right?</em>\r\n\r\nCan everyone see how this is fundamentally
    broken? If it isn't immediately apparent, think about what is missing above.\r\n\r\nThe
    source of the problem here:\r\n\r\n<em>\"If the contest info suggested that there
    wouldn\u2019t necessarily be a winner, there\u2019d be no reason for sativo to
    award a prize.\"</em>\r\n\r\nThomas is a nicer person than I. But, no. A suggestion
    is not a way to codify a contest. One shouldn't suggest that they entrants be
    adults, for example, instead you pick a minimum age. Likewise, the methodology
    of determining forfeit is not something to be vaguely hinted at. If I suggest
    that those under 16 <em>might</em> not win, that doesn't mean they don't. I need
    to say thusly beforehand, or they can.\"\r\n\r\n<em>\"Maybe the term contest just
    isn\u2019t the right thing to call these things.\"</em>\r\n\r\nDamn right it is
    not. A contest has a win-condition. The \"contests\" for lack of an accurate polite
    term, on sitepoint, in other spec work, etc. do not have that. More precisely,
    they have a win-condition that is unknown, even to the contest implementor. In
    design cases, were it known, the implementor would probably create the product
    themselves. That is the first thing that makes this not a contest.\r\n\r\nThat
    someone suggested something inherently fallacious probably irked some of the readers
    here.\r\n\r\nSince the win-condition does not exist, it cannot be announced or
    documented beforehand. First problem here: even were someone to succeed, there
    is no way for anyone to know, except for the contest implementor. Second problem:
    people lie, plain and simple. If you prefer a kinder, more complicated explanation,
    they change their minds, raise the win-condition expectations with their mood,
    lose/spend the money elsewhere, etc. It happens, even to the most well intending
    folks. This is why the teacher counts the # of jelly beans in the jar before-hand,
    writes it down, and tells another about the envelope.\r\n\r\nThis second part
    probably upset even more readers. And anyone left was probably furious by these
    last aspects.\r\n\r\nA contest implementor can write a lot of fine print to cover
    their ass, or hire a lawyer. But it can also be simpler than that. In the unclear
    moments, society relies on an appearance of good faith to help keep things working.
    This is outside of law, or below it, really.\r\n\r\nWhen you have a \"contest\"
    you have to have a REALLY GOOD reason to not follow through on your end of a bargain.
    Undefined aesthetic merit is not usually considered such, even in design contest.
    If you don't have one, you are being malicious and disrespectful to all others
    involved. Were all the entrants willfully craptastic in their submissions, or
    absolutely contrary to the stated rules? Would several normal people find this
    obvious, if they paid close attention? Since the contest announcement, did you
    learn you have a terminal disease? Was there a fire in your home that destroyed
    the cash alloted to the purse, or drastic act of misfortune? Then the winner deserves
    a prize. Period. Or, perhaps every contestant deserves an apology, and a share
    of the purse.\r\n\r\nOne \"contest\" has been extended, canceled, then allegedly
    resumed,  and the other secretly canceled, resumed and then partially canceled
    based on who the entrants were. You have half-heartedly removed your own words
    regarding this. I find good faith lacking all around. You missed the irony of
    performing all the worst habits I prescribed beforehand, and even appear proud
    of your actions. This makes me fear that even this post is for naught, but I hope
    you are beginning to see the problem is not those who condemned you, but a plain
    ol' bad idea.\r\n\r\nBy the way, all this behavior is also know to be a common
    precursor to creative theft, in similar past events. This is a well-known issue
    to many experienced designers, and a fear of many novices, though it is easily
    avoided. It is avoided, naturally, buy avoiding those who behave as you have,
    regardless of whatever your actual intentions were. So what could one expect where
    there is a high level of proffessional communication in a diverse group of designers?
    You might consider what you have learned as a designer yourself from these people,
    down to in this very thread.\r\n\r\nIf the purpose of the \"contests\" weren't
    promotional, then cough up the dough, learn your lesson, and don't do any more.
    Or, make a start at being \"not evil\" by apologizing for wasting everyone's time,
    maybe. We all make mistakes, but how we handle them makes a difference.\r\n\r\nIf
    you are begining to understand any of this, it might benefit you to drop the sarcastic,
    disrespectful comments. It sure won't hurt, except for in your pride, and that
    will certainly heal fast. I don't imagine that you are uncannily proper in this
    situation, and that past commenters somehow didn't notice, but will learn from
    your jabs. Likewise, the idea of an elitist conspiracy seem far-fetched, to understate
    things. There are too many non-collegiates and seasoned tradesmen mixed with academians
    here for that to hold water.\r\n\r\nEver notice Hollywood gives out roles as extras
    in movies, not leads? Not an accident. Real contests work well for promotion,
    and even sometimes for creating creative product, when run with consistency, integrity
    and good will. There is a reason why not a single person here, despite WIDELY
    varied backgrounds (you <em>know</em> they constantly disagree with each other),
    suggested running another one. It has nothing whatsoever to do with the AIGA.
    I have made my opinion clear, yet have never been a member, nor had I heard of
    No-Spec before this thread, but still knew that things just plain don't work like
    you desire.\r\n\r\nI know you are still reading this, and I hope that it provokes
    some serious thought. If you like, come pick it apart, as that means that you
    digested it. It's 4am, I'll assume I've made some mistakes.\r\n\r\nOr... maybe
    [[The Silence Brigade]] will come back?"
  created: '2007-01-29 10:45:35'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "I'd like to add one thing.\r\n\r\nIn the United States there are some very
    definite Federal Laws about holding contests.\r\n\r\nI can remember Scholastic
    Books figuring out a new contest -- it was coming out of their promotion department
    -- and following to the T, the government's regulations on them.\r\n\r\nI don't
    hold contests, so I've never been bothered to see where in our government it is
    listed, but I do know they exist -- and are there. Scholastic also let me know
    that our government does monitor for phoney contests. \r\n\r\nIf a private party
    had a legitimate contest - you can bet that some accounting office somewhere would
    be holding the prize money..."
  created: '2007-01-29 12:41:44'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Sheesh.. is this thing still active?\"\r\n\r\nSheesh...Sativo is still
    around whining about not being able to get quality work for free?"
  created: '2007-01-29 16:47:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\u201CI don\u2019t need names that I\u2019m not going to use. I\u2019m not
    holding the contest for sport or some unlrelated promotion.\u201D\r\n\r\n>>\u201CI\u2019m
    not going to hand out \u201Cprize\u201D money if I didn\u2019t feel anyone won.\u201D\r\n\r\n\u201CI
    received a bunch of submissions that jsut were not what I needed. Sorry guys,
    but you just didn\u2019t nail it. I\u2019m not going to be forced to pick one
    anyway.\u201D\r\n>>\r\n\r\nAnd we don\u2019t \u201Cneed to submit entries we are
    not getting paid for\u201D either. You give nothing, you get nothing.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-29 17:14:31'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: 'Thanks, Choz: I''ve updated the wiki entry for [[The Silence Brigade]]....  ;-)'
  created: '2007-01-29 17:34:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess Linda is right. This thread has now had 5,000 reads so there have
    been enough people to have read it and will undoubtably spread the word to be
    leary of contest scams (at least those from one individual). I will shut-up now
    Linda and join your silence brigade for this thread :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-29 19:46:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/3monkeys-noevil_5814.png]'
  created: '2007-01-29 20:42:56'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/donotreply_5704.gif]'
  created: '2007-01-29 22:54:17'
date: '2007-01-18 20:28:33'
title: Support your local AIGA office

---
