---
author:
  name: James Scriven
body: "So ive started on two major identity projects. (major on my scale, which is
  probably small). . . \r\n\r\nIm well versed on the design process, etc. But my real
  question comes to typeface choice. Ive built a good collection of fonts purchased
  from various vendors, however there are cases when I just dont have something that
  fits. My clients know nothing of fonts, or the importance of them. I have tried
  to explain liscensing and the general design and language of typefaces all to no
  avail. Both client have simply said why not make my design out of TNR or Arial because
  they are \"free.\" \r\n\r\nI sample various fonts from vendors and the clients are
  displeased with the quality and leave the conversation with an \"I dont know\" show
  me something high quality. . . Pain.\r\n\r\nAny tips on how to convince a client
  about selecting a nicely fitting and desinged face?\r\nAm I barking up the wrong
  tree and should I bite the bullet in the name of good design, and hope that Ill
  have a client willing to explore next time?\r\n\r\nMy final question is regarding
  the purchase of a face for an identity. \r\n\r\nWould I purchase a simple liscense
  to use a face for a logo? And then have to purchase multiple liscenses for each
  respective employee to use for the designed stationary, etc.?\r\n\r\nCheers\r\n\r\nJames"
comments:
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"why not make my design out of TNR or Arial because they are \u201Cfree.\u201D?\r\n\r\nIt's
    a valid question.\r\n\r\nIn the end, the typeface is an integral part of their
    visual identity. If they value that, then they should be able to accept the typeface
    as part of the overall package.\r\n\r\n\"Would I purchase a simple liscense to
    use a face for a logo? And then have to purchase multiple liscenses for each respective
    employee to use for the designed stationary, etc.?\"\r\n\r\nYou'd have your own
    license to create the logo. Once created, however, the logo is then just a piece
    of art that anyone in the company should be able to use.\r\n\r\nIf you are using
    a specific typeface for the stationery other than the logo, then yes, whoever
    is in charge of creating and updating the stationery would also need a license
    of the typeface."
  created: '2007-01-19 17:09:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "TNR and Arial are not just favored because they come pre-installed on every
    Windows and Mac PC, they also perform well on screen at small sizes, and have
    huge international character sets. Replicating the hinting quality and char set
    in a commercial or even custom font is difficult and expensive. I've heard stories
    of several very large international companies balking at the cost of extending
    their shiny new corporate fonts to the required char set and level of hinting
    required by their \"peons\". \r\n\r\nSo rather than fight the system work with
    it. Look at the commonly installed fonts say the Web fonts - Georgia is nice ;-)
    - or maybe Palatino Linotype, and build a logo and identity that works with them.
    \  \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-19 17:57:24'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "\u201Cwhy not make my design out of TNR or Arial because they are \u201Cfree.\u201D?\r\n\r\nbecause
    they are completely generic."
  created: '2007-01-19 18:06:54'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>\u201Cwhy not make my design out of TNR or Arial because they are \u201Cfree.\u201D?</em>\r\n\r\nBecause
    it will makt them look like this...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cheap_6732.gif]"
  created: '2007-01-19 19:09:11'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>TNR and Arial are not just favored because they come pre-installed on
    every Windows and Mac PC, they also perform well on screen at small sizes, and
    have huge international character sets.</em>\r\n\r\nSimon, I know you're biased,
    but let's get real here. There is <em>nothing</em> unique about system fonts.
    When a font becomes a system font, it becomes the very opposite of the word, because
    <strong>everyone</strong> has it. This has nothing to do with the care, skill
    or design that has gone into it. The above examples also have the honor of being
    overused in the corporate world.\r\n\r\nJames, one way to convice them is to design
    your logo with whatever typeface you want and then show it to them using Comic
    Sans, Sand (or any other typeface that is completely different) and see how they
    react. They'll probably realize they notice type more than they thought. "
  created: '2007-01-19 19:13:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Nick, I like it! \r\n\r\nHave you been keeping up with this thread? http://typophile.com/node/30718\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-19 19:13:33'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Try pointing out, in the most diplomatic way possible, that they hired you
    to give their corporation a distinct identity and that, as Patty has pointed out,
    there is nothing distinct about TNR or Arial. If this doesn't work you can follow
    up with something along the lines of \u201CWell, since you clearly have concluded
    that you don't want an identity, there's nothing more I can do for you, so I'll
    be keeping my deposit and ceasing work on this contract.\u201D At least you can
    if your contract allows for that and if you got a deposit.\r\n\r\nAlso, have you
    tried putting together a Paul Rand style book that shows the type, the logo, and
    the colors, all with a flowing written explanation? You'll have a lot more luck
    that way, because then they'll feel like they're reading this stuff, learning,
    and coming to a conclusion on their own, as opposed to just being told what to
    think. I just got a copy of the book Rand did for NEXT, if you want I'll scan
    it for you."
  created: '2007-01-19 19:17:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Simon, I know you\u2019re biased, but let\u2019s get real here. There is
    nothing unique about system fonts. \r\n\r\nNo, really let\u2019s get really real.
    How can you fault a company for ranking legibility and international support over
    uniqueness? \r\n\r\nI think you also missed this part \"and build a logo and identity
    that works with them.\" - I wasn't suggesting that they use a core font for the
    logo. Look at Typophile, a great logo, identity and heading font that works well
    with Georgia ;-) "
  created: '2007-01-19 19:28:59'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "I'm not. In fact I can't freakin' wait to use the Cleartype fonts. I don't
    think we're just discussing functionality. The question being asked is partly
    a \"creative\" question. Its very limiting as a creative person to only have two
    options that are commonly used. \r\n\r\nThere are many well designed system fonts,
    but TNR and Arial are ubiquitous. I'm answering the question as a graphic designer,
    and as a graphic designer...it limits my creativity and ultimately my enjoyment
    in a project. To a lot of creative people (but not all) uniqueness <em>is</em>
    a top priority. \r\n\r\nDidn't mean to sound so snarky there, the tone would have
    been a lot different had it been delivered after a round of brews instead of typing
    on a keyboard. :) "
  created: '2007-01-19 20:28:32'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: I would make the process in parts. First establish the design with an existing
    font. Get approval. Then propose alternate fonts and give justification. Make
    sure you have a reason for the font (potiential client, demographic, range of
    the font like real small caps).
  created: '2007-01-19 20:37:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Terry, I was being a bit snarky too - sorry. It comes from having experiences
    from the other end when trying to use some unhinted custom fonts, with small character
    sets in Word and in presentations (most recently with the Xbox 360 fonts) - the
    experience made me value the core fonts. On top of that I often have to explain
    to customers (internal and external) why certain fonts have had less investment
    (hinting and char-set) than others, and that''s hard too. Maybe I need a few of
    those brews. TGIF! ;-)  '
  created: '2007-01-19 20:41:35'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Now, now, here's how you do it.\r\n\r\nFirst, you do <em>exactly</em> what
    the client wanted.\r\n\r\nSecond, do a second design: your take on it. Go the
    extra mile. Make it amazing.\r\n\r\nWhen presentation time comes, present the
    former design first, then the latter. Finally, compare and contrast the two, in
    which you'll present a persusive reasoning on how the second design will work
    better for the client than the first.\r\n\r\nMost of the times, it takes a bad
    design to make the good one shine.\r\n\r\nGood luck!"
  created: '2007-01-19 20:51:13'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "JSDOCA,\r\n\r\nOne of the best things you can do is make comps from sites
    that let you see what words look like. If the client okays them - buy the font
    - then add it to the bill.\r\n\r\nIt's all part of the design service. If you
    cannot add a separate line for font - add the price to the extra time you took
    finding the font for the design.\r\n\r\nAnd btw - headache charges are permitted.\r\n\r\nHope
    that helps."
  created: '2007-01-19 20:54:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Most of the times, it takes a bad design to make the good one shine.\r\n\r\nSounds
    a bit dangerous, how many times out of ten does the client pick the bad design?
    ;-)"
  created: '2007-01-19 20:54:29'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "I agree with Sii, you have to be careful with the \"bad\" design. It should
    be good enough for you to live with in case it's chosen.\r\n\r\nToday I had a
    message from a client who wanted to change a design quite a lot, and not to a
    good direction. I did what was asked, but also suggested a third alternative,
    something between the two (closer to the first ;^) ). The third one was chosen,
    after the client's suggestion was proven not suitable."
  created: '2007-01-19 21:02:38'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>how many times out of ten does the client pick the bad design? ;-) </em>\r\n\r\nMore
    than 0.00 but less than 1.00, in my experience.  \r\n\r\nOf course, in cases like
    that, you nod, cash the cheque, and the next time they call with work, you tell
    them you're busy.  ;-)"
  created: '2007-01-19 21:06:53'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Actually, it's about the presentation too, and making the bad design look
    and feel <em>bad</em> enough. The key is to not actually make them feel remorseful
    over their past decision, but to have them think \"Oh, now there's an idea.\"\r\n\r\nWe're
    getting psychological here. I digress :)\r\n\r\nSii, at least in my past cases,
    most of the clients agreed. But then again, we're talking Portland-style small
    to mid business here :)"
  created: '2007-01-19 21:28:16'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Sounds a bit dangerous, how many times out of ten does the client pick
    the bad design? ;-)</em>\r\n\r\nMan, oh man you ain't kiddin'! I heard a designer
    once say if you hate one of the options\u2014 don't show it to the client, because
    they will invariably pick that version as the final! :)"
  created: '2007-01-20 17:47:29'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>Of course, in cases like that, you nod, cash the cheque, and the next
    time they call with work, you tell them you\u2019re busy. ;-)</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    next time they call you quote them an absolutely outrageous price and if they
    go for it, take the money and run! Not everything you do will end up in your portfolio
    but if it won't, it should at least end up in your bank account."
  created: '2007-01-20 18:10:00'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "<quote>Not everything you do will end up in your portfolio but if it won\u2019t,
    it should at least end up in your bank account.</quote>\r\n\r\nThat will be my
    credo from now on.\r\n\r\nOr you can always say \"Here's the stuff that you requested/commisioned,
    and, oh, by the way...\""
  created: '2007-01-21 03:06:47'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>The next time they call you quote them an absolutely outrageous price
    and if they go for it, take the money and run! </em>\r\n\r\nMaybe I'm just a grumpy
    old fart, but I gave up on dealing with DFI* clients awhile ago.  \r\n\r\n(There's
    an old, probably apocryphal, story told about George Bernard Shaw visiting in
    the U.S., who asked a woman if she would go to bed with him for $1,000,000. She
    responded \"why, of course sir!\" \r\n\r\n\"But would you go to bed with me for
    $10?\" said GBS.\r\n\r\n\"Of course not, what kind of woman do you think I am?\"
    she retorted, and was much offended.\r\n\r\n\"I know that already, I'm just trying
    to establish the price.\")\r\n\r\nSome of us don't have a price....\r\n\r\n*DFI
    = Dumb F***ing Idiot"
  created: '2007-01-21 03:30:52'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Not everything you do will end up in your portfolio but if it won\u2019t,
    it should at least end up in your bank account.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf I've ever seen
    sage advice, that's it."
  created: '2007-01-21 04:50:14'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>show it to them using Comic Sans, Sand (or any other typeface that is
    completely different) and see how they react</em>\r\n\r\nI think this is dangerous,
    Terry... the client might like it!  :-D\r\n\r\n<em>I heard a designer once say
    if you hate one of the options \u2014- don\u2019t show it to the client, because
    they will invariably pick that version as the final!</em>\r\n\r\nI've heard of
    cases where this actually happens..."
  created: '2007-01-21 07:30:48'
- author:
    name: fallenartist
    picture: 111868
  body: "<cite>I heard a designer once say if you hate one of the options \u2014-
    don\u2019t show it to the client, because they will invariably pick that version
    as the final!</cite>\r\n\r\nI also can't agree on designers showing options they
    don't like. It's like harming yourself (and others).\r\n\r\nFor me the only time
    when designer can show more than one option is the initial stage when he shows
    rough ideas and possibilities rather than completed work. If a client pays for
    one design he gets the best one you can do. Only one.\r\n\r\nAs for the corporate
    typeface it seems your client is not keen to spend money on fonts. BTW isn't it
    the letterhead the only document client would fill with Arial? You should then
    consider it as an option. I agree you can try talking about his 'uniqeness', but,
    to be honest, I think he won't buy licenses for his 40 offices :)\r\n\r\n_______\r\n
    AL\r\n<a href=http://www.lenart.pl>lenart.pl</a>"
  created: '2007-01-23 12:11:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "I used to work for a so-called 'design' company, and the idiot in charge
    always insisted we do about ten different options to show the client they were
    getting good value for money.\r\n\r\nInvariably, the client would say 'Oh great!
    we'll have a bit of that one, a bit of that one, a touch of this...etc' So the
    whole idea would be a complete compromise.\r\n\r\nEven worse if you're showing
    to a committee.\r\n\r\nTosser! It's pretty disheartening. I'm so glad I work for
    myself now.\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2007-01-23 13:25:22'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "The goal is to hire someone that really knows how to sell if you can. The
    success of small (and even large) firms centers on the sales/account exec team.\r\n\r\nI've
    worked with sales people that can completely convince the client to pick whichever
    design we felt was the best option. The beauty was that when done, the client
    completely believed that it was entirely their decision.\r\n\r\nIf you are like
    me, though, and not the greatest with the sales pitch, defintely to NOT show them
    any options you do not feel are appropriate as inevitably, that'll be the one
    the client leans towards."
  created: '2007-01-23 15:06:02'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>don\u2019t show it to the client, because they will invariably pick that
    version as the final!</em>\r\n\r\nSo, it seems virtually unanimous!\r\n\r\n<em>I
    think this is dangerous, Terry\u2026 the client might like it! :-D</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps.
    But perhaps, not. :)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Chevron_logo_Comic_4743.jpg]"
  created: '2007-01-23 18:38:40'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Forgot to mention...\r\n\r\n<em>*DFI = Dumb F***ing Idiot</em>\r\n\r\nLOL!
    Classic. That needs to be a technical term!"
  created: '2007-01-23 18:55:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The purpose in using either type or a logo to establish identity is (say
    it with me now) to establish identity! Establishing an identity is not making
    yourself look plain vanila and just like everything else on earth no matter how
    well it is hinted. Identity/branding Clients are trying to distinguish themselves
    from the masses, not get absorbed into the masses. They are trying to position
    themselves in the marketplace visibly, not hide in plain site. What is the point
    of having a corporate face if it is lost in the crowd?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-23 19:14:03'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Terry, DFI is almost as classic as AMF...  ;-)
  created: '2007-01-23 19:36:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Even though I feel like Bud Abbot, I'll bite Linda, what is AMF?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-23 19:43:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Chris, if a corporation is big enough, or wants to be perceived as playing
    in that league, then massive blandness may be a feature, not a fault. \r\n\r\nPerhaps
    identity is only required for niche products, and blandness is better for mass
    products that are bought on price, convenience, or celebrity tie-ins. "
  created: '2007-01-23 19:47:52'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "(If you bite me, you better make sure you've had your shots.)\r\n\r\n\"Adios
    Mother-....\"\r\n\r\nOne of the better exit lines I've run across.  ;-)"
  created: '2007-01-23 19:48:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...and blandness is better for mass products that are bought on price,
    convenience, or celebrity tie-ins.\"\r\n\r\nOr else it was the only thing a large
    boardroom full of egocentric decide-by-committee VPs could agree on :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-23 19:53:16'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "The Finnish VPs seem to use two trusted methods when it comes to choosing
    designs: mutu and vatu\r\nmutu = musta tuntuu (me thinks)\r\nvatu = vaimosta tuntuu
    (my wife thinks)\r\nVatu is especially bad method from the designer's point of
    view. If the VP's wife doesn't like, let's say green, or her favourite colour
    is blue, that has a huge affect on the final design. "
  created: '2007-01-23 20:01:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think I must have come accross some \"vatu\" in my caree in America, perhaps
    it was imported from Finland ;-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-23 20:07:10'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "All the big strategic decisions are based on vatu, too.\r\n\u201CShould we\u2026\r\n\u2022
    expand abroad?\r\n\u2022 launch this new product?\r\n\u2022 buy this other company
    we don\u2019t know that much about for ten years\u2019 turnover?\r\n\u2013 I\u2019ll
    have to ask me wife tonight\u2026\u201D\r\n\r\nYou can always affect mutu but
    never vatu, that\u2019s what makes it so dangerous.\r\n\r\nIt seems there\u2019s
    a weekly learn a word of Finnish going on here. Great."
  created: '2007-01-23 20:17:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "We are always ready for Finnish product :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-23 20:25:50'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Okay, Chris. I\u2019ve got a nice little assignment for you. With the Easter
    coming, I dare you to try some m\xE4mmi. M\xE4mmi is traditional finnish easter
    food. You\u2019ve a couple of moths to find a store that sells finnish food. Swedish
    one might do, I\u2019m not sure if they have this.\r\n\r\nDon\u2019t google this
    and spoil the fun. Just go to store where they have it and say you want some m\xE4mmi."
  created: '2007-01-23 20:43:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Oh boy, do I really want my mommy? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-23 20:49:14'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "You could start by not calling them peons. (We've been asked to remove posts
    from designers who's clients didn't like what was being said about them.)\r\n\r\nInstead
    of groaning and moaning just remember that you're part designer and part salesman
    (salesman of your ideas). The design process is work, no matter who your client
    is. Design savvy clients require just as much, if not a lot more, work than unsophisticated
    clients. The end result with a savvy client usually ends up being a lot better
    work, however. \r\n\r\nPortfolio counts, especially when you're starting out,
    but what will reward you in the long run is happy clients. So, you've got to gently
    educate them, without belittling them. Explain that you're upgrading them from
    Men's Wearhouse to Macy's or from Hyundai to Honda, or whatever anology works.
    And if you must go with a *free font, don't give in to TNR, Arial or Comic Sans.\r\n\r\n*
    These fonts aren't free, they're just licensed, subsidized, by the big OS makers."
  children:
  - author:
      name: James Scriven
    body: "Joe great comment, the client, wanting a web 2.0 look . . . went with Helvetica
      Round and Neue (sp?) I was pushing the new Gotham Rounded. \r\n\r\nMy biggest
      question spanning out of this is the liscensing. . . I understood all of the
      EULA's however I have no idea where the line gets drawn on the web ( I know
      that most require pixel format, an a certain percentage of the characters alphabet
      not to be exceeded). What I dont understand is when the client say wants to
      use a system font, such as Helvetica. . .for the reason being that they think
      its free. It still has to be licensed right? Its exceeding beyond personal use
      and into public showcase in the matter of using say Helvtica for a logo????\r\n\r\nThanks
      for the insight. "
    created: '2007-01-24 01:26:38'
  created: '2007-01-23 20:51:49'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "James,\r\n\r\nI'm with Joe. But I feel your pain, particularly since it's
    hard to spec fonts when you don't own them. Sometimes it's a matter of having
    a sit-down with them and explaining the reason for using a non-typical font. It's
    hard to make someone care about the finer points of fonts, so know your battle
    before you go into it and be armed with a solid reason. Make it matter to them.
    Don't explain historical models, explain direct benefits: saving space, market
    disctinction, legibility, reader impact.\r\n\r\nMaybe this is all repetition of
    stuff you know. I find that large samples printed from the font testers that most
    foundries offer work the best. Select three, create a compelling 20-second explanation
    of the benefits of each, get their reaction. Then, repeat with a more narrowly
    selected bunch. You have the power to control what fonts they see and the power
    to shape their understanding. Don't worry about showing them extensive text settings.
    Sell them on what YOU know, not what THEY see. If need be, try to find a PDF with
    a high-res sample to supplement.\r\n\r\nAt least, this is how I go about it.\r\n\r\nOh,
    also consider differentiating between internal memos and external communications.
    Sometimes only the marketing group/designers need the unique font, allowing them
    to use a font from the default set for the majority of their users."
  children:
  - author:
      name: James Scriven
    body: "I copied Dezcom's comment about Vanilla, etc. Seemed to make sense to them,
      but it came down to them claiming that there is no obvious difference between
      say Helvetica and Meta for example. . . (that shocked me)\r\n\r\nI didn't really
      think about it as so much of a selling point but it really is. (still just getting
      my feet wet). I showed them way to many, and of course they said  they all look
      the same, and they still wanted to go with their \"free fonts.\" \r\n\r\nNo
      such thing as a free font if you want to give credit to such designers correct?
      Say they have Helvetica on their system Mac, if they want it used as a logo,
      they should purchase a license? Or is that license included in the fact that
      its bundled with the program or system?"
    created: '2007-01-24 01:32:08'
  created: '2007-01-23 21:05:04'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Say they have Helvetica on their system Mac, if they want it used as a
    logo, they should purchase a license?\"\r\n\r\nIf it came with their system, then
    they have a license by virtue of the OS they purchased."
  created: '2007-01-24 14:32:44'
- author:
    name: James Scriven
  body: "Cheers aluminum, so in the case here for my client they don't in fact own
    a mac, but they have Studio 8 which I'm sure includes helvetica. I'm using my
    laptop there until they get me a mac (I'm their in house). I would have to purchase
    a license for the companies use. correct?\r\n\r\nThanks"
  created: '2007-01-24 15:39:40'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "So here's some advice that may sound weird and not so fun. I think you might
    need to lay low. A creative person stepping into a lion's den with business executives
    is almost always going to have the chips stacked against them. You should think
    about playing their game\u2014 print a memo with a well crafted explanation and/or
    examples to illustrate your point. If you try to rock the boat too early, you
    may come off like a newbie who is not realistic and doesn't understand the game.\r\n\r\nI'm
    guessing you're still a little green because presenting \"too may options\" is
    a rookie mistake. :) Lord knows I've made it. Don't overplay your hand.\r\n\r\nLastly,
    piggybacking off Joe's comment. I <strong>highly</strong> recommend changing the
    name of this thread. All your employers have to do is Google your name and they
    can find this thread."
  created: '2007-01-24 19:07:26'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'In regards to renaming a thread: Sadly with the amount of traffic we get
    here it might already be in the wayback archives. :^/ '
  created: '2007-01-24 19:48:10'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'There''s always the option of starting with Helvetica and tweaking it a little
    to add personality; that''s what Vignelli Associates did for Knoll. '
  created: '2007-01-24 19:56:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">changing the name\r\n\r\nTerry is right. Name-calling is generally a losing
    tactic. Just ask George Allen :)"
  created: '2007-01-24 21:12:03'
date: '2007-01-19 17:01:38'
title: Convincing the non designer Peons of Corporate America

---
