---
author:
  name: missgiggles
  picture: 111889
body: I am designing a CV and it is going to be in a cube format that unfolds when
  taken out of the envelope to give the employer a mini heart attack lol :D Only Joking.
  DONT TAKE IT SEROUS! hahaha! I will have a mini CD on one of the sides of the cube
  but I need ideas into what I could turn it into i.e. what could be useful in a designers
  studio that could be made into from a cube? i.e. a dice but designers don't need
  a dice do they? No! Unless they have time to play Monopoly and have lost the dice,
  which I doubt happens in everyday life. So what would you suggest? What do you think?
  I thought of a container to put their pens and fineliners etc in but I want something
  more than that. Any ideas welcome, may they be bazzar or just plain simpe. Anything
  can spark ideas. Thank you.
comments:
- author:
    name: Sebastiaan
    picture: 112084
  body: I am really sorry, and no offense, but you lost me at the third line. I don't
    really see what your question is, or what you are trying to tell. Could you please
    rephrase the question?
  created: '2007-01-20 14:47:26'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "If the attempt is to get them to read your resume, I'd really suggest making
    the resume an actual resume. 8.5x11 paper. One sided. Easy to read.\r\n\r\nIf
    you want to toss is something else, go ahead and make that a cube if you want.
    But let the resume be a resume. As for a cube...a calendar? "
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: I have two ideas for my CV. I am designing one that is typographically exciting
      and another that is interactive. Depends who I am sending them out to, what
      kind of company. If it is more interactive based, then my cube CV will be sent
      out. If it seems more interested in concepts etc than interaction, then the
      typographic one which will be simply A4 sized. I don't really have much clue
      on what i am doing for my typographic one yet as I need more inspiration. I
      may have illustrate my face with letters and numbers and use it as a stamp on
      my CV. Other than that, I was thinking of indicating margin sizes on my CV,
      indents, footer, header, ascenders, decenders, kerning, gutter width, typeface
      used, font size, headline, bodycopy etc etc. What do you think? let me know.
      I need to make it look exciting. How do you think i should go about it? Any
      ideas? Let me know, thanks.
    created: '2007-01-21 13:44:43'
  created: '2007-01-20 14:51:51'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "I agree with aluminum. One sheet of 8.5x11 (or A4, depending) paper. \r\n\r\nWhat
    you are describing sounds very gimmicky. Every once in a great while, something
    \"gimmicky\" works, if both concept and execution are exceptionally strong. It
    is very rare.\r\n\r\nI would suggest concentrating on the details: the design
    of your CV, the paper, quality of printing, how you \"package\" it for mailing,
    etc.\r\n\r\njarrod"
  created: '2007-01-20 16:35:51'
- author:
    name: seventy7
    picture: 111185
  body: "I agree. Avoid the gimmicks.\r\n\r\nThings to consider when sending your
    CV and or portfolio to potential employers:\r\n\r\n1. They receive dozens of CVs,
    so they don't want to spend a lot of time interacting with yours. \r\n\r\n2. If
    it is free of typos, decently designed and your experience meets their expectations,
    they will put you in the \"contact for interview stack.\"\r\n\r\n3. Keep the document
    simple. No color, no more than one page. Just a nicely designed, easy to navigate
    typographic document. Anything else will be seen as gimmicky. \r\n\r\n4. As stated
    above, \"gimmicks\" <strong>can</strong> work. But it has to be so amazing and
    innovative that the only next logical step is to hire you right away.\r\n\r\nSounds
    to me like you've come up with a solution - the cube - and now you are in search
    of the concept. This rarely works out well."
  created: '2007-01-20 19:21:13'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "I am terribly sorry - but I disagree with the majority of you. Anyone can
    take a piece of \"white\" paper and put their resume on it (I'm surprised you
    haven't recommended Times Roman for this.)\r\n\r\nHowever, you are suppose to
    be creative - and that does not mean \"gimmicky.\"\r\n\r\nYour CV should be very
    well designed. When it goes to the employer you are sending it to - you want it
    to be memorable.\r\n\r\nAny of you familiar with Harris Levine (pronounce La-Wine)?
    He was an art director for Harcort Brace, ah years ago. He taught about typography
    at School of Visual Arts. He also looked alot like Humphrey Bogart. His resume
    was a black & white photo of himself, complete with cigarette out of the side
    of his mouth -- on the full sheet. The headline read, \"Would you hire this person?\"
    below in small white type was his credentials.\r\n\r\nNot only was it original,
    it was one full class for his students. They all had to come up with the most
    creative type resume they could. It isn't easy -- you must express yourself in
    your best light.\r\n\r\nBTW - after college I worked in at NYU Graduate School
    of Business in admissions. Literally thousands of resumes showed up every day.
    They all looked the same. They were all one page - neatly typed. Every now and
    then one would come by that we'd actually take a bit more than the average 5 seconds
    to look at.\r\n\r\nIf you are a creative person in life - then fortunately, you
    are not like everyone else in life. So why should your resume look like everyone
    elses? Unless of course, you are not going for a creative position, only another
    dishrag job...\r\n\r\n\r\nP.S. Addition - that HL CV was done a good 25 to 30
    years ago, and it is still embedded in my memory. Can you say that about any of
    the resumes you've looked at in your lifetime?"
  created: '2007-01-21 14:19:25'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I agree with Jackie. Most people who view your resume won't be hiring at
    all. Most jobs are not filled through publishing want ads. This means that you
    have to blindly send your resume to employers, i.e., the people getting it don't
    want to hire you. And they won't want to hire you until you change their mind.
    The only way to do this is to call attention to yourself in a positive way that
    says, \"hey, I'm creative. If you don't hire me, your competitors will. This will
    be your loss.\"\r\n\r\nHowever, even in your \"experimental\" cv, your type had
    better damn well be well set! Just because a company specializes in multimedia,
    or whatever, does not mean they they cannot or do not appreciate fine typography.
    It can make the difference, even when you don't expect it to. Besides, you never
    know what the person reading your cv knows. Put your best possible face forward."
  created: '2007-01-21 14:46:41'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I have two ideas for my CV. I am designing one that is typographically
    exciting and another that is interactive.\"\r\n\"I need to make it look exciting.\"\r\n\r\nAgain,
    no.\r\n\r\nA CV should be:\r\n\r\n - easy to read/legible\r\n - standard format\r\n
    - nothing else\r\n\r\nDo not overthink the CV. It's a practical piece of design.
    A definite form FOLLOWS function object. Let it be what it is. Pick a couple of
    nice typefaces, do some careful typesetting, proofread it, and call it finished.\r\n\r\nAs
    others have said, gimmicks are REALLY hard to pull off...mainly because a thousand
    people before you have already tried. Remember, designers are pretty much in the
    business of gimmicks (at least at some point in their career) so the odds of you
    coming up with something unique enough to trump not having the CV readable are
    slim to none.\r\n\r\nConsider your CV like you would your wardrobe. You COULD
    show up to your interview in thigh-high leather, a pink boa, and purple tu-tu
    to try and 'stand out' in the crowd. But no one is really going to hire you based
    on your wardrobe. They just care about your experience.\r\n\r\n(I don't know if
    that's a good analogy or not...I'm up late with a sick kid just trying to stay
    away long enough to put him to bed...so I\"m not entirely thinking straight here...)\r\n\r\n\"Your
    CV should be very well designed. When it goes to the employer you are sending
    it to - you want it to be memorable.\"\r\n\r\nYou want the CONTENT to be memorable.
    \r\n\r\nI appreciate that the 'you are a creative applying for a creative position'
    but that's what the portfolio is for. The resume is to sell HR. The portfolio
    to sell your Art Director."
  created: '2007-01-22 04:24:37'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Agree with aluminum here. \r\n\r\nI'm an Art Director and I don't see flashy
    CVs, probably because like he said, I only get them when HR, Marketing, etc decides
    that someone is a viable candidate.\r\n\r\nIt wouldn't impress me anyway. That's
    what your portfolio is for.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-01-22 05:23:52'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">The resume is to sell HR.\r\n\r\nYes, this is true. But only if the company
    is big enough to have an HR department in the first place! Even a design studio
    with 10\u201320 employees is unlikely to have an HR department. In which case,
    either the secretary or the owner will open your mail. Both of these sorts of
    people are more susceptible to cool than HR people.\r\n\r\nWhat kind of company
    do you want to work for missgiggles?"
  created: '2007-01-22 05:40:52'
- author:
    name: magnus_rakeng
    picture: 109817
  body: 'Your CV is not where you should show your creativity. Like Paul says, that''s
    what your portfolio is for. Maybe it says more about what kind of people i am
    looking for when i hire someone, but i tend to get put off when someone tries
    too hard to impress at that stage. '
  created: '2007-01-22 11:51:34'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "You may be interested in AIGA's opinion on resumes.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.aiga.org/content.cfm/writingyourresume"
  created: '2007-01-22 12:20:14'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "I think we had this conversation before.\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/29377"
  created: '2007-01-22 12:54:16'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Both of these sorts of people are more susceptible to cool than HR people.\"\r\n\r\nGraphic
    design isn't about 'cool', though. It's about 'communication'.\r\n\r\nThe last
    time I did portfolio reviews for college grads, I was sent one student who everyone
    was raving about. The kid was 'cool' and had really nailed down the MTV-esque
    style. It was a slick portfolio.\r\n\r\nThen we got to a piece that had the same
    great MTV-esque style and he commented off-hand 'yea, it's good, but the client
    really hated it. Whatever'\r\n\r\nI start to look at the piece and notice it was
    a brochure for a septic tank company.\r\n\r\nAt that point, I realized that he
    wasn't a designer. He was a highly skilled and talented decorator. Alas, he wasn't
    able to grasp the context of the piece and apply the appropriate design solution.\r\n\r\nIf
    I see a 'cute' resume, I think 'this person doesn't understand the basic functionality
    of a resume' and would probably then label them a poor designer...albeit perhaps
    a great decorator.\r\n\r\nIMHO, of course."
  created: '2007-01-22 14:25:53'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: When I was an art director I got all sorts of fun/funky stuff from designers
    - toys, etc. It was fun having that stuff on my desk. But when it came to hiring,
    I went for the well-designed CV and impressive, professional portfolio, hands
    down. Threw all the toys away when I left that job, kept the folder with the resumes.
  created: '2007-01-22 14:54:55'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Patty and Aluminum,\r\n\r\nI'm in full agreement about no gimmicks.\r\n\r\nBut
    I feel as a designer, there should be something of a well-designed piece for the
    resume. Something to make it sing out so it is different from the other resumes.
    This of course, an be handled in type treatments (name in a display face, use
    of one body family in two weights) and well thought out.\r\n\r\nHowever, I do
    know that every now and then one utterly fantastic resume comes along, and it
    is impossible to forget i.e. Harris Levine...\r\n\r\nBut just a boring, Times
    Roman, white paper, put the fact here, just the facts -- may be skipped over and
    not leave an impression. \r\n\r\nThe key words then\r\nWell-thought out and executed!\r\n\r\nP.S.
    I remember one art director was in need of a fast resume, we put her in University
    Roman for her name, and it was odd - the font truly represented her and complimented
    (and complemented) her portfolio. I forgot what we used for the body copy... too
    many years have gone by."
  created: '2007-01-22 15:08:57'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>What kind of company do you want to work for missgiggles?</em>\r\n\r\nThats
    a very good point. There is not a single solution to this. I've seen gimmicky
    resumes that were failures because the gimmick had nothing to do with the rest
    of the work. If you've always wanted to work somewhere that is obsessed with cubes,
    squares and gemotric CV's, send them your cube, so to speak.\r\n\r\nIf you want
    to work somewhere well paying, classy, boring and bureaucratic, send them 12pt
    TNR with broad even margins, and no abbreviations.\r\n\r\nIt is up to you, but
    if you go for a gimmick, make sure it is one that  actually communicates something
    about you, the company, or both. If it doesn't do that, skip it and save your
    effort for something else.\r\n\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2007-01-22 15:27:31'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "\r\nI remember only one CV that I have ever seen - from the first designer
    to work on Jack Spade bags, a guy from Art Center. It was laid out in a 2D graph,
    and as a piece of information design, was exceptionally impressive.\r\n\r\nI never
    suggested to use Times New Roman, and make it look like \"everyone else's.\" But
    this CV I refer to was on one sheet of 8.5\" x 11\" paper, in black and white
    only. \r\n\r\nAnd I repeat, the successful conception and execution of a really
    unique presentation is exceedingly rare. If you can do it, more power to you.\r\n\r\njarrod\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-22 16:26:41'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: I wouldnt really suggest that either, but simply meant to make an example
    of each extreme. The "right" answer is somewhere tastefully in the middle. Classy
    needn't be boring at all, and I would be leery of any biz which was enthralled
    by a 'cube' resume.
  created: '2007-01-22 17:54:32'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: "In regards to 'What kind of company do you want to work for missgiggles?'\r\nI
    am aiming to work for a small graphic design firm in the northwest of England
    near Manchester."
  created: '2007-01-22 21:17:30'
- author:
    name: pantone354
    picture: 111454
  body: "In about two days i'm going to be moving up to Seattle, WA with a job in
    design that I got while working in Tucson, AZ. My resume/CV was type set in basic
    font family with black ink on nice white stock. Simple and very clean. You could
    almost say I was applying for a sales position it was so boring. We'll the job
    flew me up, hotel and car for the weekend and hired me two days later. Now one
    of my best friends who I used to work with in Tucson also moved up to Seattle
    about 5 months ago. He's probably a better designer than myself but he's still
    struggling to find a job. He's resume is very well designed on very nice colored
    stock and with a *personal logo. I really liked his design and look but he's still
    jobless. (he's picky as well tho) but I have a job.. The first job I applied too.
    A cubed resume is just a gimmick and nothing else. type set the resume very well
    and use a good sense of white space to make it pop. \r\n\r\n*And don't put a personal
    logo, Your applying to work for there company, not your's.."
  created: '2007-01-23 20:22:24'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Hi Miss G\r\n\r\nI'm coming to this thread late, but thought I would relate
    a true story...\r\n\r\nYears ago I designed and produced a 3D cube Christmas gimmick
    for our clients' amusement in the festive season. The cube was about 3 inches
    square on each side and was self-tensioning with an internal rubber band, so that
    it effectively assembled itself as it came out of the envelope. The only information
    it had on the outside was our company branding, our closing dates over the holidays,
    and a bit of seasonal decoration. It had no other function, but required four
    colour printing, a custom-made die, heavy-duty laminating and a lot of (expensive)
    hand-finishing. We ran less than a 100 off. The clients, almost without exception,
    got pissed at the office parties and played football with the cubes. In most cases
    the 'goals' were, yep, the waste paper baskets."
  created: '2007-01-24 21:41:16'
- author:
    name: yipyop
    picture: 110307
  body: "Just a snarky aside:\r\n\r\nIf you need to fish in a forum for the design
    of your resume (which will supposedly represent your own creativity), what will
    you do if you get the job and need to solve creative problems on a daily basis?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: missgiggles
      picture: 111889
    body: "'If you need to fish in a forum for the design of your resume (which will
      supposedly represent your own creativity), what will you do if you get the job
      and need to solve creative problems on a daily basis?'\r\nIt's not as if I asked
      for the cube idea did i? Now that's something totally different."
    created: '2007-01-24 22:40:01'
  created: '2007-01-24 22:22:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>If you need to fish in a forum for the design of your resume (which
    will supposedly represent your own creativity), what will you do if you get the
    job and need to solve creative problems on a daily basis?</cite>\r\n\r\nShe has
    creative ideas, she's just asking others what they think of said ideas. "
  created: '2007-01-24 22:26:19'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: Okkkkaaaaay...i get it Ben. Not such a happy ending after all :(
  created: '2007-01-24 22:38:43'
- author:
    name: yipyop
    picture: 110307
  body: "<em>\"what could be useful in a designers studio that could be made into
    from a cube?\"</em>\r\n\r\n<em>\"It\u2019s not as if I asked for the cube idea
    did i?\"</em>\r\n\r\nYeah, but what use is it, as you ask in your original request?
    Whether a sheet of paper or a cube, it's still a blank canvas. You're really asking
    for the content, which in the case of a resume should be a representation of your
    own problem-solving abilities. "
  created: '2007-01-24 23:06:14'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Actually I really like the dice idea. A friend once gave me a dice to help
    me decide which coffee to go for.\r\n\r\n<em>but designers don\u2019t need a dice
    do they?</em>\r\n\r\nThe designers could use it to make their key design decisions
    a la <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Dice-Man-Luke-Rhinehart/dp/0879518642/sr=1-1/qid=1169686896/ref=pd_bbs_1/104-6251580-6773560?ie=UTF8&s=books\">
    Dice Man</a>. You know, \"if I roll a five it's PMS 451, if I roll a six it's
    pale lilac.\" I'm guessing that in a lot of instances the people in marketing
    wouldn't necessarily spot the difference in methodology..."
  created: '2007-01-25 01:07:59'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "[EDITED BY THE POSTER] Sorry, but I'm with the guy who made the snarky aside.
    You won't hear a peep from me, though. I'll just think my snarky asides to myself.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-25 07:56:54'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "ben...that's a brlliant idea. I might steel it. Pantone Dice! trouble picking
    your colors? Roll the color palet dice!\r\n\r\n\"I\u2019ll just think my snarky
    asides to myself.\"\r\n\r\nThis is the internet. Snarky asides kept to one's self
    make for boring discussions. Let them out! ;o)"
  created: '2007-01-25 15:20:20'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Actually Darrel it's a very cynical and shameless idea that ought to strike
    mortal terror into the hearts of any true designers reading this discussion...
    \r\n\r\nCall it devil's advocacy, but theoretically speaking, one could 'roll
    out' the Dice Man methodology into practically every area of design process from
    size & format choices to colour palettes to (shock, horror!) typeface choices.
    (If you thought for a minute that the people in marketing might figure it out
    you could employ a doubling cube to raise the level of apparent complexity).\r\n\r\nIn
    an age where a lot of graphic work appears to originate from some stylistic remix
    machine set to overdrive, I'm sure that someone out there thinks it's as valid
    an approach as the 'intuitive' methods."
  created: '2007-01-26 00:32:13'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: Aluminum - you may appreciate an old office dart board. Complete with Pantone
    color around the outer rim and basic typefaces on the inner rim. Very helpful
    for making all those important design decisions...
  created: '2007-01-26 03:01:34'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: I've always thought that using old Pantone fans and Chartpak kits would be
    perfect for this....  ;-)
  created: '2007-01-26 03:29:27'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"it\u2019s as valid an approach as the \u2018intuitive\u2019 methods.\"\r\n\r\nWhen
    touring the Walker Art Center's Design Department with a large group of students,
    they proceeded to show us how they pick colors for their posters. One person holds
    up the paper bag, while the other blindly picks two pantone swatches from the
    bag. If they don't think it's a good match, they get one more shot at it.\r\n\r\nI
    thought it was brilliant. ;o)"
  created: '2007-01-26 06:36:47'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: '[Edit]'
  created: '2012-08-05 17:05:11'
date: '2007-01-20 13:23:34'
title: My 3D cubed CV

---
