---
author:
  name: Ryan Spilken
  picture: 112155
body: "Hello, \r\n\r\nI'm green to this site, and it seems like alot of you are very
  knowledgeable in the typographic arts. \r\n\r\nMy question is this:\r\n\r\nWhat
  is the general consensus about the free fonts available online through sites such
  as 1001freefonts.com? I've used a few for effect here and there, and I'm wondering
  if anyone else has done the same. There are quite a few stinkers out there, but
  a couple of them are quite nice.\r\n\r\nThoughts?\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: James Scriven
  body: "All stinkers. . . you get for what you pay for. . . you will rarely come
    across some alright free fonts which is fine. If there is an EULA, read it. When
    I first started GD school I didnt even know the scope of fonts, but very quickly
    I came to learn that the free ones arnt really worth it. You may find something
    that works for display text, but I would be hesitant to set body of text with
    what Ive found for free out there. \r\n\r\nMake sure its not a rip off of someone
    else's hard work. Type in \"free fonts\" in the typophile seach box, youll find
    plenty of threads/nodes regarding this subject.\r\n\r\nWhat are you using the
    fonts for? What is your desire for the font?\r\n\r\nBEst advice, take a look at
    some of the top typeface design sites and see what you think of those faces vs.
    the free ones you have come across.\r\n\r\nOff the top of my head:\r\n\r\nmyfonts.com
    (affordable for the most part)\r\ntypography.com\r\nlinotype.com\r\nveer.com\r\nfontfont.com\r\nfontshop.com\r\n\r\nThere
    are lots of very respectable good type houses out there.\r\n\r\nI hope im on the
    right track on this answer, any more seasoned typophilers please correct me if
    im wrong. \r\n\r\nCheers\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2007-01-23 01:13:34'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I've used some free fonts here and there. But most of them are quite horrible.
    But I know a couple that are rather good.
  created: '2007-01-23 01:14:35'
- author:
    name: James Scriven
  body: http://typophile.com/node/17339
  created: '2007-01-23 01:16:57'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "[[faq_free]]\r\n\r\nlots of links there to threads discussing the pros and
    cons."
  created: '2007-01-23 01:46:07'
- author:
    name: Ryan Spilken
    picture: 112155
  body: "I only use them as display type, never body.\r\n\r\nI understand the difference
    in quality between the free and the pro's. However, as a student who has more
    ideas than dollars, I've found them to be indespensible for projects and my own
    work (band flyers, etc). \r\n\r\nThe threads you've pointed out and some other
    sites are great. \r\nCheers"
  children:
  - author:
      name: James Scriven
    body: "Ryan, Im not sure where you go to school, but ask around with the mac lab
      and teachers, assuming you have one. My school supplies a collection of good
      typefaces for students, under the basis that its used primarily for student
      work. Its tempting at first to use elsewhere, but it only takes a few GD classes
      to respect the art and effort put into the design. \r\n\r\nIve had success also
      purchasing only the singular weight of a font needed for much less than the
      entire family.\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-01-23 03:23:31'
  created: '2007-01-23 01:57:35'
- author:
    name: elizabeth_355
    picture: 112087
  body: Almost all fonts for TeX are free. The Lucida font family is not, but there
    is a discount for members of the TeX Users Group - http://www.tug.org
  created: '2007-01-23 16:31:53'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>All stinkers\u2026 you get for what you pay for\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nDisinclined
    as I am to making categorical statements--if, for no other reason than they are
    a primary source of many of the world's miseries--I am nonetheless fascinated
    by the conviction with which they are often uttered.\r\n\r\nMore to the point,
    if one gets what one pays for, what is the threshold of worth in a font? Is ten
    dollars too little to pay, and thus the font is crap? Is a forty-dollar font twice
    as good as a twenty-dollar font, and an eighty-dollar font twice as good as the
    forty dollar one and four times better than the twenty-dollar font? Curious minds
    want to know..."
  created: '2007-01-23 16:32:19'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: There needs to be a distinction made, somehow. It seems to me there are a
    few different kinds of "free" fonts. Total crap, Great but promotional, and Open
    Source. There are many open source as well as promotional free fonts which are
    really good and nothing to sneeze at.
  created: '2007-01-23 17:49:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Promotional free fonts are usually samples, one weight from a larger family,
    and work to whet ones appetite for the purchase of the rest. They are every bit
    as good as the type family they come from. Even though they are free, I don't
    think they should be included as true members of the free font jenre.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-23 18:40:42'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "This is where I seem to always step in.\r\n\r\nFree fonts are not necessarily
    free.\r\nMany ask that if you are going to use their fonts for commercial purposes
    that you pay a licensing fee. (One French designer I know will take payment in
    international beers.)\r\n\r\nAre free fonts any good? Well guess what - some are.
    Where would we be without Scriptina, Harrington, Base 02 or the ever-popular Alba?\r\n\r\nAre
    all commercial fonts good? NO.\r\n\r\nDo we all pay in the end? You betcha!"
  created: '2007-01-23 18:48:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The \"you get what you pay for\" saying may not apply litterally in this
    case. You have to compare apples to apples. A $50 opentype Pro font from a text
    family with very full Character and feature set may be actually worth more than
    5 times that of a $10 type 1 display face with only a basic character set. A face
    by a top notch designer may be worth much more than a comparable one by a barely
    skilled one. \r\nThe statement may better be said \"sometimes you get what you
    paid for, but sometimes you get screwed and sometimes you get a bargain.\" The
    educated consumer has a better chance at coming out ahead or at least even.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-23 18:49:46'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: And I haven't seen note of <a href="http://moorstation.org/typoasis/designers/klein/index.htm">Manfred
    Klein's</a> vast repository of free fonts in this thread yet; again, hit-and-miss,
    but there's lots to sort through.
  created: '2007-01-23 19:52:33'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Many of those fonts have questionable genealogy. '
  created: '2007-01-23 21:52:31'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: There are some nice ones, but they usually have only one or two weights or
    one weight and an italic, so they are not complete enough to use for either a
    large-scale project or on an ongoing basis. So with very few exceptions, you're
    better off going with a face you pay for anyway (see myriad reasons above).
  created: '2007-01-23 22:02:45'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>There are many open source as well as promotional free fonts which
    are really good and nothing to sneeze at.</cite>\r\n\r\nMiss T: What are some
    of these Open Source fonts?\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-23 23:50:32'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Andrew, I was specifically think of <a href="http://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&cat_id=FontDownloadsGentium">Gentium</a>.
  created: '2007-01-24 00:08:19'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "This was the only time I saw anything about Open Source Fonts: http://www.designwritingresearch.org/free_fonts.html
    (it was linked thru from Ellen Lupton's site.) \r\n\r\nI didn't know if there
    were others out there or not. "
  created: '2007-01-24 03:26:00'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Gentium is great, but it doesn't have the base four styles (regular, italic,
    bold, bold italic).\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-01-24 07:53:46'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'That''s true, Thomas, which doesn''t make it particularly useful for most
    projects. '
  created: '2007-01-24 17:30:49'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I don't understand why there is so much hate here for free fonts. \r\nSure,
    most of them are not particularly useful to professional designers, and many are
    poorly constructed, but that does not mean that all free fonts are wholly without
    merit. A quirky display font can be quite handy for a quick logotype or for slapping
    a slogan on a soda cup. Not every font has to work in columns of dense text, but
    even then there are some free fonts that can do the job."
  created: '2007-01-24 18:02:28'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "The <a href=\"http://www.greekfontsociety.org/pages/en_typefaces.html\">Greek
    Font Society</a> has the best free fonts I've ever run across. Opentype, with
    full character sets and typographic extras like small caps. All are Greek fonts,
    but most have full Latin support.\r\n\r\nThey're released under the Open Font
    License, the same as Gentium.\r\n\r\nEDIT\r\nName me any other source that provides
    this many free USEABLE TEXT faces. I doubt you can. I amazed that I've never seen
    mention of these typefaces before."
  created: '2007-01-24 18:02:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What is a \"quick\" logotype? and why must a \"slapped slogan\" be done in
    poor type? There are plenty of display faces out there for sale. Going the freefont
    route is not required for display work.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-24 18:12:18'
- author:
    name: James Scriven
  body: "of course its not, however from the poster of this topic he stated that he
    was using the faces as display as so many free out there cannot be set at text
    sizes legibly.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-24 18:16:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I was refering to the post by cuttlefish.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: James Scriven
    body: dez my mistake
    created: '2007-01-24 22:03:51'
  created: '2007-01-24 18:22:00'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "That work can be done quickly does not imply that it must be done poorly.
    \r\n\r\nI worked for a while at a rather low-end sign shop. We'd bill $60 an hour
    for design work beyond very basic typesetting (which in the case of signs is typically
    anything beyond a business name and tagline plus address and phone number). With
    clients that often balked at paying over $200 for a pair of truck magnets (and
    few who would spring for more than a half hour of design fees), some shortcuts
    had to be taken. Even under those conditions I strove to do work I could take
    pride in.\r\n\r\nI'm not denying there are a lot of bad fonts out there, and though
    there ought to be some measure of quality control, some of those do get out through
    commercial channels, just as there are a handful of masterful works that their
    designers choose to distribute for free."
  created: '2007-01-24 18:35:47'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "free != poor\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-24 18:41:57'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Is there an open peer-rated font review site? Something like Slashdot's thread
    moderation, or Gamefaq's stars would be nice. A font could be voted up for fullness,
    craftmanship and/or style (separated ratings), or down for a lack thereof.\r\n\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2007-01-24 18:45:29'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "But yours are free Choz mate, do you think that they are poor? That seems
    a bit weird.\r\n\r\nMuzz"
  created: '2007-01-24 18:48:05'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Like a Hot or Not for fonts?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-24 18:51:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Maybe that Simon guy on the news for his \"American Idol\" critiques would
    be the judge? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-24 19:10:45'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Nah, The Donald as design arbiter....  ;-)
  created: '2007-01-24 19:22:33'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I do not \"hate\" free fonts. The problems I have with free fonts are three-fold.\r\n\r\n1.
    The quality of most free fonts--quality including glyph-set--is not useful to
    me.\r\n2. Most of them aren't appropriate to the type of work I do either.\r\n3.
    Those that are actually rip-offs of work done by other hard-working type designers.
    (So perhaps in this instance you could use the word hate.)"
  created: '2007-01-24 19:40:37'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: I just did a logo for a client and used Formata for the text face for the
    business card. What Formata gave me was the options to use small caps or regular
    or medium or light formats. Another words choices, something free fonts don't
    give you.
  created: '2007-01-24 22:53:33'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "While the arbiters of taste here, and the oh-so-clever folks in <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/30804\">this</a>
    thread are bashing free fonts, there might be a few salient points you might want
    to consider...\r\n\r\nFirst off, for many of the people who make these fonts,
    it's a learning experience; as such, beginner's mistakes are to be expected and,
    unless you played the Minute Waltz flawlessly in 57 seconds the first few times
    you attempted it, the mistakes should be tolerated as well. Some fontmakers improve
    their skills with time, some don't. <strong>Some</strong> is not <strong>all</strong>--even
    <strong>most </strong>is not <strong>all</strong>; so, please, can the categorical
    statements.\r\n\r\nSecondly, just because a particular font may not suit <strong>your</strong>
    purposes doesn't mean that it doesn't suit someone's purpose. I cannot begin to
    tell you how many emails I have received from underfunded nonprofits, churches,
    youth groups and the like, thanking me--sometimes blessing me--for providing them
    with free fonts to dress up their projects. And it's not only organizations with
    limited means who have used them: Turner Classic Movies (print ads), Warner Brothers
    Television (props in <em>Blue Collar TV</em> and <em>Smallville</em>), the Tank
    McNamara comic strip--even PBS (program titles for a Soul Stars of the 70s special)--have
    all found appropriate uses for some of my freeware fonts. I also cannot begin
    to tell you how many people have \"appropriated\" my free fonts and packaged and
    sold them for profit, without asking and without sharing those profits.\r\n\r\nSo,
    maybe it's time to lighten up on the freeware folks. Respect, I realize, is out
    of the question, but the common courtesy of consideration on a case-by-case basis,
    rather than wholesale dismissal, is not, I believe, too much to ask."
  created: '2007-01-24 23:12:36'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I couldn't have said it better myself, oldnick, as evidenced by my atempts.
  created: '2007-01-25 00:26:39'
- author:
    name: Thylacine
    picture: 112146
  body: "There's nothing inherently wrong with free fonts, but neither is their anything
    wrong with free food or a free haircut. The problem is that free just doesn't
    get you much most of the time. Yes, there might be a few higher-quality fonts
    available, but this still doesn't alter the fact that most are near junk.<ul>\r\n\t<li>Most
    free fonts were slapped together by amateurs.</li>\r\n\t<li>Many free fonts are
    simply scanned and and sloppily converted.</li>\r\n\t<li>Most free fonts lack
    attention to detail and precision.</li>\r\n\t<li>Most free fonts lack a decent
    set of kerning pairs.</li>\r\n\t<li>Most free fonts do not come in various weights
    or italics.</li>\r\n\t<li>Most free fonts do not contain a reasonably complete
    character set.</li>\r\n\t<li>Many free fonts are rip-offs of other people's work.</li>\r\n\t<li>Most
    free fonts lack good (if any) hinting.</li>\r\n\t<li>Many free fonts have far
    too many control points (usually as a result of converted scans).</li>\r\n\t<li>And
    most are just, umm, ugly.</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nA couple of my older commercial
    Type 1 fonts regularly show up on free font sites after others have opened them
    and simply resaved them in another format (with or without minor tweaks) and uploaded
    them to the Internet. I've opened some of these stolen fonts and most even have
    my copyright informations still embedded in them.\r\n\r\nI've sometimes used a
    free font for display work, but I could count on one hand the times when I've
    really been impressed by what I've found. It takes weeks or months to design and
    built a decent, high-quality font &#8212; there might be a few talented hobbyists
    out there willing to give away that kind of work, but I'm stumped as to why. On
    the other hand, if you want a grungy or special look of some kind for a word here
    and there, sure, by all means use a free font if you can find one that works.
    Just try be careful about it really being freeware and not a simply mislabeled
    piece of stolen software."
  created: '2007-01-25 03:27:09'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "It's worth tossing into this discussion the thread I started in the General
    Forum:\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/30804\">Joke Font Something Awful
    page</a>\r\n\r\n(Is about free fonts. Funny as it gets...)"
  created: '2007-01-25 04:28:23'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "><em>And it\u2019s not only organizations with limited means who have used
    them: \r\n>Turner Classic Movies (print ads), Warner Brothers Television \r\n>(props
    in Blue Collar TV and \r\n>Smallville), the Tank McNamara comic strip\u2014even
    PBS (program \r\n>titles for a Soul Stars of the \r\n>70s special)\u2014have all
    found appropriate uses for some of my freeware fonts.</em> \r\n\r\nThese (with
    the possible exception of PBS) are exactly the people that should be using licensed
    fonts! Imagine if their graphics departments would decided that all of their print
    ads, comic strips, or film titles should just use free fonts.\r\n\r\n><em>I also
    cannot begin to tell you how many people have \u201Cappropriated\u201D my free
    fonts\r\n> and packaged and sold them for profit, without asking and without sharing
    those \r\n> profits.</em>\r\n\r\nDoesn't this discourage one from wanting to put
    more free fonts into the world?"
  created: '2007-01-25 05:43:12'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Muzzer-\r\n\"!=\" is geek shorthand for \"not equal\". I was responding to
    Chris's assumption that a free font was automatically a poor font, if it was appropriate
    for quick/slapped on use. I couldn't find the html code for a slashed equals sign,
    so I used the ascii equivalent. It comes from some programming language, where
    \"!=\" defines one variable as NOT being another.\r\n\r\nAs someone who has released
    more free fonts than commissioned and commercial faces, I will admit that the
    quality is erratic. Even though I release free display types specifically to fight
    the stereotype of small character sets, rip-offs, and other lameness, They don't
    get all the love the $ fonts do. For revivals, I try to be very caring however,
    since I'm not otherwise honoring the original's design. That's why I have only
    one so far.\r\n\r\nCuttlefish-\r\nYes, I think so. maybe I can mock something
    up like what I mean. I'm not too good with interactive db-driven sites, but I
    might be able to cobble some sort of example where people could moderate fonts
    on build quality.\r\n\r\nRyan-\r\nI think the consensus was nailed in your own
    OP.\r\n\r\nEveryone-\r\nI don't think this is simply a board of free-font haters.
    I find the knee-jerk venomous reactions amusing. Appreciating free fonts is truly
    a conflict of interest for some people. Others just happen to hate corny decorative
    faces, which are often free. And some folks are more into the function than form,
    too.\r\n\r\nThylacine-\r\nI agree with you on every point. As for your question
    of why, here's a long answer (italicized for those who want to skip it):\r\n\r\n<em>When
    I was younger I was crazy for Nick's and Ray's fonts. Even though I then had no
    idea who they wer, or that they were even alive. ;) The idea that you could do
    what they made possible was exciting and in the end, inspiring.  I feel the world
    looks better, literally, for their input. (In fact, finding out that many of the
    most important people in type design are alive now is astoundingly cool.)\r\n\r\nFree
    is an easy way to get them out there. And seeing one's faces used is titillating.
    I would never have used one of my decorative faces for setting long poems on a
    web page, but someone has.  I don't know if anyone but the author and I see it
    as she envisioned it, but it was ...interesting. And probably still better than
    using the same old, \"workhorses\".\r\n\r\nThere is also something amazing that
    in this industry, I didn't need to be a \"font merchant\" to receive sincere recognition.
    I haven't won mass awards, but then I haven't paid to enter the comps, either.
    The indirect encouragement of Ray Larabie, Fontplayer, Luc Devroye and others
    has affected me profoundly. I feel I am a far more cogent artist these days.\r\n\r\nLast,
    I do things that are pointedly experimental, and that I consider more art than
    design; to me, giving them away sometimes simply feels right. There are quality
    free text fonts out there as well (documented above), I imagine the reasoning
    is as varied as as the designers, and as complicated as my own.\r\n\r\nAlthough
    I release free fonts under very liberal licenses for use, and sometimes modification,
    it has still actually led to some paid licensing. Had they been commercial only,
    they might never have had the exposure to create that demand. The free fonts have
    also led to very fun commissions.</em>\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2007-01-25 06:06:48'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "\"These (with the possible exception of PBS) are exactly the people that
    should be using licensed fonts! Imagine if their graphics departments would decided
    that all of their print ads, comic strips, or film titles should just use free
    fonts.\"\r\n\r\nThey <em>are</em> using licensed fonts, no?"
  created: '2007-01-25 06:22:50'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">They <em>are</em> using licensed fonts, no?\r\n\r\nWell, only they can know
    really know that. But licensed fonts or not, I'd be willing to bet that whoever
    designs their materials 1) gets paid for doing so, 2) is designing on a computer
    that was purchased and not donated, and 3) uses software from Adobe and Microsoft,
    etc., rather than OpenSource alternatives.\r\n\r\nBut when it comes to fonts,
    there is no point in investing much money or paying the designer, right?"
  created: '2007-01-25 08:51:28'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I'm simply pointing out that if they are using freeware fonts, they are still
    using them within the terms of a license. So, no foul there.\r\n\r\nIf you find
    exactly what you need for free, legally and honestly, there is very little point
    in paying the designer. But the number of free type designers is shrinking, I
    hear. And a very small # of people pay anyway, presumably for the same reason
    the designers give the type away.\r\n\r\nThat big businesses should have to pay,
    but that PBS or \"the little guy\" shouldn't is a political view that I happen
    to mostly agree with, but it is just a viewpoint, and what some other designer
    does with his own work isn't subject to my paradigm. There is no Font Recording
    Artist Association to buy us laws, fix prices, create racketeering schemes, sue
    grandmothers and force manditory payment systems. If there were, we wouldn't even
    have this conversation, as the free fonts would be buried in a avalanche of hype
    for the pay ones.\r\n\r\nI personally prefer what we have now, I think. It looks
    like it is the leftover copyrightless mess from when the obsolete metal-based
    foundries of the past assumed that media-industry like protection would have only
    hindered them."
  created: '2007-01-25 13:50:53'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "BTW - you are right that many of the free fonts were experiments by people
    who are new to this field. (Let's not talk about the blatant rip-offs and copyright
    infringements.)\r\n\r\nHowever, if you find a type designer you can recommend
    they contact What the Font. Several up and coming designers have, and their works
    are now being offered for sale (granted minimum -- like as low as $6 per font)
    but, it is affordable and I believe helps the designer have a sense of credibility.\r\n\r\nAnd
    everytime I think the shareware guys are shrinking - a new High School Freshman
    chimes in..."
  created: '2007-01-25 13:54:19'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>These (with the possible exception of PBS) are exactly the people that
    should be using licensed fonts!</em>\r\n\r\nI beg to differ; I submit that a designer
    is doing his or her job properly if the choice of font, regardless of its cost,
    is appropriate to the assignment. In the case of <em>Smallville</em>, the assignment
    was to produce a banner that one would expect to see at a high school dance. Would
    a high school student head to Veer and drop 80 bucks for a font, or would he or
    she scope out the free stuff? I think the designer understood--and executed--the
    assignment perfectly.\r\n\r\nIn the case of <em>Blue Collar TV</em> and <em>Tank
    McNamara</em>, the font of choice was Team Spirit, a \"jock\" font, the particular
    style of which--until I released an improved commercial version named Boola Boola
    last year--wasn't available anywhere else, at any price. Again, the use was entirely
    appropriate to the purpose at hand.\r\n\r\nNaturally, I would prefer that, all
    things being equal, designers would purchase my commercial fonts rather than use
    my free fonts. But all things are not always equal, and sometimes the free font
    is the better choice. If the shoe fits, wear it; if the font works, use it."
  created: '2007-01-25 14:23:34'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I think the awesome thing about free fonts is that they enable someone, say
    a student designer, to learn without cost. I'm a student. I'm poor. So what did
    I do? I went free font hunting. But after downloading everything in existence,
    looking and examining them to see their letterforms and character sets, and printing
    out a sample I came to a scary conclusion:\r\n\r\nThere are two reasons that people
    can charge for fonts. Those reasons are called knowledge and skill. (Aside from
    time and overhead, etc.) The skill in gently crafting the bowl of a lowercase
    b. The knowledge of exactly where the lines of perfect geometry need to be broken
    to make a letterform <cite>appear</cite> perfectly geometric. Etc., etc.\r\n\r\nBut
    that doesn't change one pertinent fact: What a type designer chooses to charge
    for his/her work is none of my damn business.\r\n\r\nAnd if someone like Nick
    here wants to give/sell cheaply his work and it fits the criteria of the design
    I'm doing, why would I complain?\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-25 16:04:42'
- author:
    name: Ryan Spilken
    picture: 112155
  body: "This is really great discourse, everyone. I greatly appreciate it. \r\n\r\nAs
    I am not yet a paid professional, the access to a greater pallette of options
    has meant the difference between a lackluster project and one that shows attention
    to detail. When it is time to enter the working world, I would be much more satisfied
    paying my peers for their hard work than taking what I can get for free.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    there is a font called Accidental Presidency that I found on a free site that
    I really like. Is that a hack?   "
  created: '2007-01-25 16:20:45'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "Choz: Muzz != clever.\r\n\r\nMuzz"
  created: '2007-01-25 18:49:15'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "from the profile:\r\n\r\n\"tepidmonkey at gmail dot com\r\n\r\n....Just send
    an email to the above address and I`ll get back to you.\r\n\r\n-Brandon\r\n\r\nDecember
    30, 2006\"\r\n\r\nThat's pretty recent, so the addy is likely good. If you ask
    the developer, you might get more details than you even want as to the source,
    inspiration, etc. A hack might deny it, but I imagine a \"sampler\" \"mash-up
    artist\" or \"remixer\" would be pretty open, as would an original artist."
  created: '2007-01-25 18:59:42'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I doubt Accidental Presidency is sampled or remixed from another source.
    There are too many hallmarks of amateur work in it.\r\n\r\nNote for example that
    the lowercase rounds are shorter than the x-height instead of taller, or the mess
    in the counter of the lowercase \"g\", or the wildly inconsistent sidebearings.
    Should a lowercase straight get a sidebearing of 34 or of 8? This might be a \"design
    feature\" if you were to think of this as a grunge font, I suppose.\r\n\r\nOf
    course there are a number of free fonts that are of truly professional quality,
    and a number of commercial fonts that are of pretty dubious quality. But if one
    were to graph the frequency of various quality levels across the two groups, there
    would be two big normal curves which would only overlap in their tails.\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, if you buy a commercial font, you may be overpaying for the value
    of what you get, and there's never any danger of that with a free font.\r\n\r\nI
    don't hate free fonts, and I don't find them particularly threatening, because
    they are so far removed from what I do on a day-to-day basis. I do sometimes find
    it frustrating that it's a lot of work to explain to people how far removed the
    average free font is from the kind of work we do.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-01-26 23:48:36'
- author:
    name: James Scriven
  body: "Im currently revamping a companies identity and have been bickering as to
    why they should pay for fonts. . . The SEO marketing girl just mentioned a 1902
    act of congress preventing American or English newspapers from \"owning\" the
    only legible fonts available thus making the purchase of said fonts illegal. .
    . no idea. I told her to go take a running jump. \r\n\r\nAnyone know anything
    more on this subject?"
  created: '2007-01-27 02:08:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"the only legible fonts available \"\r\n\r\nThat is so not the case today.
    The point then was freedom of the press where all newspapers would have access
    to type and therefore be able to print their opinions. There are many thousands
    of readable types available today. There were laws years ago that allowed burning
    witches too. Sometimes laws are either stupid or outlive their usefullness.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-27 04:51:22'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Perhaps you can get some more details from \"the SEO marketing girl,\" such
    as the name of the act in question. I have not heard of it, and haven't been able
    to easily gfind anything online.\r\n\r\nAlso, what was her point? is she trying
    to claim that fonts can't be owned? It is recently fairly well established that
    digital fonts are protected by copyright in the USA, such as in the Adobe vs.
    SSi ruling.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-01-28 03:40:53'
date: '2007-01-23 01:00:14'
node_type: forum
title: Free fonts...?

---
