---
author:
  name: elliot100
  picture: 110615
body: "I'm sure this will have been covered before, but can't seem to find anything.\r\n\r\nIs
  the correct pronounciation the French, or to rhyme with \"man's\", or both?\r\n\r\nI've
  always used the latter for typefaces, but I think I tend to use the French the rest
  of the time (this may just make me a snob, though).\r\n\r\nBut sometimes I hear
  \"san-serif\" said quickly with a long \"a\" -- \"saanserif\".\r\n\r\nWhat's the
  definitive answer?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Just say:\r\n\r\nSerifenlose Linear-Antiqua\r\nThat's correct. ;-)\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\nPS:
    To be serious - its very honest of an anglo-american to try to pronounce the lots
    of german or, here, french words, correctly.\r\nFor german font names and german
    designers I already offered in this forum to build up a downloadable .wav file
    on my website.\r\nBut I guess the guys thought I was joking and I got no response."
  created: '2007-01-23 12:49:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think \"correct\" depends upon where you are. In America, you will most
    often hear sans as in mans and this is the accepted way. In France, you will surely
    hear the correct French pronunciation. As the saying goes, \"When in Rome...\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-23 13:12:44'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: Ah, but sans is not derived from the French, but the Latin. So we should be
    pronouncing it as the Romans did. (Don't ask me what that is, though.)
  created: '2007-01-23 13:47:59'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "I meant in English speaking countries - wondered if it fell into the category
    of words originally borrowed from a foreign language but now considered part of
    English and pronounced according to English rules. eg theatre, restaurant, garage,
    hotel, Paris. In the UK it would generally be considered pretentious to pronounce
    these as French.\r\n\r\nEdit: If it is direct from Latin then I guess to rhyme
    with mans is the one."
  created: '2007-01-23 13:49:00'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "The standard throughout my education and career thus far is to say \"sans\"
    like \"man's\" and \"san-serif\" either like \"man\" or \"mahn\" according to
    preference.\r\n\r\nI prefer the latter. Then again, I say \"you-nee-vair\" rather
    than \"universe\", so I tend towards that type of pronunciation."
  created: '2007-01-23 14:16:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "If you read at the end of James Mosley's <a href=\"http://typefoundry.blogspot.com/2007/01/nymph-and-grot-update.html\">update
    on his history of the sanserif</a>, you will see that the term Sans-serif or 'sanserif'
    is not French but a neologism by the English typefounder Vincent Figgins. He also
    says that the French tended to call 'antique', as in 'Antique Olive', what the
    English call 'sanserif'. \r\n\r\nSince 'sanserif' is an English neologism mixing
    French and (apparently) a mispronounced Dutch word, the correct pronounciation
    in English rhymes sans and man's. This is the way both the Concise Oxford and
    the Webster's Collegiate dictionaries have it. So unlike a huge number of typeface
    names, here there is actually an authoritative answer on correct pronounciation.
    \r\n\r\nIt is often something of a quandry in English whether to try to pronounce
    a foreign word as in the original language, or Anglicize it. In this case 'sanserif'
    is an English word, so go with it as English and be happy :) \r\n\r\nps. I've
    read that in inventing neologisms, it is recommended to stick within one foreign
    language, if part of the word is foreign. So, for example, 'television', which
    mixes Greek and Latin, is bad practice. 'Sanserif' is like that, but at least
    it resolves the question of how to pronounce it: not French, not Dutch. \r\n\r\nSince
    English is in fact a 'Creole', a product of colonials who couldn't quite manage
    the language of their French masters (William the Conquerer) this kind of mixed-up
    word fits very happily into our language :) \r\n\r\npps. Bringhurst, evidently
    uncomfortable with the bastard word 'sanserif', uses his own neologism \"unserifed\"
    typefaces. To me this is a rare false note in Bringhurst's beautiful use of language.
    I think it is better to embrace the wild multicultual mix that is English, and
    not prissily 'correct' a perfectly serviceable and well established word of dubious
    origins.   "
  created: '2007-01-23 14:40:03'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "I think the people from out of anglo-american countries know the pronounciation
    of you guys. And they understand the language-problem. Its the same situation
    with you reading articles from people like me or other germans/french/spanish
    e.g.: I bet it smells funny for you. But its very rare to see people in US forums
    laughing about it or critiziing it.\r\n\r\nPronounce it how you want - and be
    sure, everyone in our countries know what you mean.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-23 14:42:15'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: Thanks guys - that about covers it!
  created: '2007-01-23 15:12:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Not quite.\r\nSans is a good ol' Middle English word that hung around.\r\nShakespeare
    used it in \"As You Like It,\"\r\n\r\n...Last scene of all,\r\nThat ends this
    strange eventful history,\r\nIs second childishness and mere oblivion,\r\nSans
    teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything.\r\n\r\nElvis didn't get quite that
    far for his monologue in \"Are You Lonesome Tonight\" :-)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: katzenjammer
    body: "@ Nick: < Sans is a good ol\u2019 Middle English word that hung around.>\r\n\r\nWasn't
      it borrowed from the French in the 13th/14th centuries?  My sense is that it
      was used rarely, and even then only to show one's \"continental\" learning,
      which is why ol' William had Jaques (with wordly/learned pretensions) use it
      so ostentatiously.  I think its appeal was precisely that it was so consciously
      non-english.    "
    created: '2007-01-24 16:29:20'
  created: '2007-01-23 20:32:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "A PSALM OF LIFE by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow \r\nWhat The Heart of the Young
    Man Said to the Psalmist\r\n\r\n\u201CAnd, departing, leave behind us\r\n        Footprints
    on the sans of time;\u201D\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-23 20:37:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "In Sans Souci (1952), Peggy Lee sang, \"Sans souci, they got no room for
    someone like me,\" (her lyrics).\r\nIt's a French phrase meaning carefree. Miss
    Lee pronounced \"souci\" in the French manner, but dropped the \"s\" on \"sans,\"
    more like Spanish. "
  created: '2007-01-23 21:20:12'
- author:
    name: gabrielhl
    picture: 109646
  body: "In French, when saying \"sans\" you also drop the S. It's pronounced with
    a close \"a\", just like the words \"blood\" (sang) and \"one hundred\" (cent).
    The s is only pronounced when connecting it with some words that begin with vowels,
    in which case they join and the s has a z sound.\r\n\r\nIn Brazilian Portuguese
    most people say \"Sans\" as \"s\xE3s\" (a nasal a), sort of like english \"suns\",
    but with a \"weaker\" n. \r\n\r\nI'm all for each language to use its \"own\"
    pronunciation, especially for words that come up all the time in conversations
    (like sans) -- it usually keeps both speaker and listener more relaxed."
  created: '2007-01-24 16:15:59'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "To bring things back to type, William Caslon junior (the Caslon who cast
    the \u2018Egyptian\u2019 type) advertised \u2018Sanspareil\u2019 (or maybe \u2018Sans
    Pareil\u2019) types, that is big types cast in a new kind of matrix, in 1810.\r\n\r\n\u2018Sanspareil\u2019
    means the same as \u2018Nonesuch\u2019, or indeed \u2018Nonpareil\u2019. (Someone
    ordered a little italic called \u2018la Non Pareille\u2019 from Robert Granjon
    in 1551.) The French 80-gun ship <em>Sanspareil</em> was captured on 1 June 1794,
    and became a ship of the same name in the Royal Navy. The Sanspareil Theatre opened
    in the Strand in London in 1806 and kept the name until 1819, when it changed
    to the Adelphi. And the <em>Sans Pareil</em> steam locomotive was the runner up
    to Stephenson\u2019s <em>Rocket</em> in the Rainhill trials of 1829 which introduced
    the railway age. \r\n\r\nI suspect that this was how the Sans of Sans-Serif got
    into the language.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-24 17:32:07'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "OED puts sans (as a preposition) first use at c.1320.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-24 17:51:36'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "><em>I suspect that this was how the Sans of Sans-Serif got into the language</em>\r\n\r\nOr
    rather, how Sans got into Sans-Serif. The 'sans eyes' etc. of <em>As you like
    it </em>must have helped to keep the word around."
  created: '2007-01-24 18:36:10'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'The thing about all the questions about the correct way to say nearly any
    of the typo-terms is that there are not enough of us & we are too diverse culturally
    to form a definable or solid lump of spoken culture. There are lots of ways of
    saying things now and if we look back it has been this way since the beginning.
    Maybe in the electronic/webospheric age that will change, but I don''t think so.
    Frankly, I like the diversity. It''s a kind of richness even if it is confusing. '
  created: '2007-01-24 19:23:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'm convinced, James.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nAll this talk about sans begs the
    question of \"serif\".\r\n\r\nIf \"sans\" was a trendy French word in the early
    1800s, did English speakers think that \"serif\" was a French or Oriental word,
    and pronounce both with long vowels in proper \"foreign\" manner (rhymes with
    Omar Sharif) --or with short vowels as is the norm (in my experience) today?\r\n\r\nIf
    \"serif\" was derived from the Dutch schreef (line), pronounced laboriously in
    two syllables as it is read, then the original pronunciation of sans serif was
    probably with long \"a\" and \"i\", in an impressively erudite manner -- maybe
    with the tongue slightly in cheek.\r\n\r\nHence, such a magnificent term for so
    lowly an artefact is a Euphemism, and, through its preposterous pedantry, an in-joke
    -- a parody of the pretension with which merchants dress up their most humble
    wares."
  created: '2007-01-24 19:28:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">begs the question \r\n\r\nI prefer \"raises the question\". Almost everybody
    now says 'begs the question' instead of 'raises the question'. Still, as a one-time
    teacher of logic I regret the loss of the original meaning of 'begging the question':
    the logical fallacy in which you simply re-assert, in a disguised form, the claim
    that is in dispute.  "
  created: '2007-01-24 19:49:55'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: With apologies to the Clash - schreef don't like it...
  created: '2007-01-24 19:52:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I prefer \u201Craises the question\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nThat would have
    been somewhat prosaic, as I was in fact discussing question-begging.\r\n\r\nMy
    point was that the question of the correct pronunciation of \"serif\" is not answered
    (nor even asked) by determining the pronunciation of \"sans\". Therefore, there
    is a logical fallacy in assuming, for no proven reason, that \"serif\" will be
    pronounced in a certain way, dependent on the pronunciation of \"sans\". \r\n\r\n(That's
    the long version of <em>All this talk about sans begs the question of \u201Cserif\u201D.</em>)\r\n\r\nI
    then established a logical relationship between the pronunciation of the two halves
    of the term sans serif."
  created: '2007-01-24 20:20:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I was in fact discussing question-begging.\r\n\r\nHa! Think you can out-pedant
    me, Nick? I'll show you what useless, annoying pedantry is all about!\r\n\r\nEliot's
    original question was about how to pronounce the 'sans' part of 'sanserif', not
    about how to pronounce the 'serif' part of 'sanserif'. There was no possibility
    of begging of the question about 'serif' since that question had never been mooted.
    \r\n\r\nAlso changing the meaning of the question under discussion is another
    logical fallacy: equivocation :) \r\n\r\nFor some reason, perhaps because French
    was once the mark of an educated person, we in English are tempted to Frenchify
    some words of French origin--which ones is capricious, as over half of English
    comes from French. The same thing never happens with Dutch words, which we have
    even less clue how to pronounce. "
  created: '2007-01-24 20:42:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Just when you thought you couldn't take the tick out of a pedant, you find
    that gnawing itch that can only come from a tick feasting on your outer-membrain
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-24 20:48:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Ha! Think you can out-pedant me, Nick?</em>\r\n\r\nI concede. You the
    Man, Bill."
  created: '2007-01-24 21:11:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Yeah, I''m much more annoying :) '
  created: '2007-01-24 21:14:33'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "> For some reason, perhaps because French was once the mark of an educated
    person, we in English are tempted to Frenchify some words of French origin\r\n\r\n<strong>Homer:</strong>
    Hmm. I wonder why he\u2019s so eager to go to the garage?\r\n<strong>Moe:</strong>
    The \u201Cgarage\u201D? Hey fellas, the \u201Cgarage\u201D! Well, ooh la di da,
    Mr. French Man.\r\n<strong>Homer:</strong> Well what do <em>you</em> call it?\r\n<strong>Moe:</strong>
    A car hole!"
  created: '2007-01-24 21:16:13'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: James, I thought "nonpareil" meant "without peer," but it has been ages since
    my high school French.
  created: '2007-01-24 21:33:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Craig!\r\n\r\nTotally! Groovy! Boss! Bitchin! or whatever is hip today for
    well done :-)\r\n\r\n ChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-24 22:33:21'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: I pronounce it no
  created: '2007-01-24 22:46:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL Dan!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-24 22:52:30'
- author:
    name: nickshanks
  body: "Was that simpsons quote pronounced by stressing the first or second syllable?\r\nI
    think of this as quite french: /g\u0259\u02C8\u0279\u0251\u02D0\u0292/ (unused)\r\nThis
    as something of a hybrid: /\u02C8g\xE6\u0279\u0251\u02D0\u02A4/ (repair/upgrade
    facility)\r\nAnd this as english: /\u02C8g\xE6\u0279\u026A\u02A4/ (outhouse to
    park in, dealership)\r\n\r\np.s. The forums need to use a better typeface! How
    about Gentium?"
  created: '2007-01-24 23:00:24'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Nick how about Helvetica
  created: '2007-01-24 23:06:35'
- author:
    name: nickshanks
  body: "Dan: Helvetica as supplied on my OS doesn't support IPA so it would be just
    as useless (Lucida Grande is the only one that does, but I expect everyone here
    has Gentium too). But the font size here is small indeed, too small to use a serif.\r\nIt
    also overrides my browser's default text size (20px) for 12pt Georgia which I
    can't read past sunset unless I sit forward and squint at the screen."
  created: '2007-01-24 23:54:23'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: Nick, your pronunciations of "garage" are English English. The one you describe
    as "quite French (unused)" is how it is always said in America.
  created: '2007-01-25 13:43:57'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: The Simpsons quote reminded me of my younger years, when I usually pronounced
    car brand names such as Corvette, Peugeot etc like they should be pronounced only
    to be ridiculed by my friends for trying to be too fine. Finns (especially young
    ones) tend to pronounce foreign words like Finnish, just the way it's written.
  created: '2007-01-25 14:15:03'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "I can't see the pronounciation markup there for some reason, but I pronounce
    it a equally stressed \"garaaje\" -- and often get mocked for doing so. I blame
    my Francophile parents.\r\n\r\nHowever, even I know that it's definitely \"garridge\"
    techno."
  created: '2007-01-25 14:17:43'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Since English is in fact a \u2018Creole\u2019, a product of colonials
    who couldn\u2019t quite manage the language of their French masters (William the
    Conquerer) this kind of mixed-up word fits very happily into our language</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    let us not forget that William the Bastard (the name he was known by before the
    spin doctors rewrote history) spoke Norman (Norseman) French."
  created: '2007-01-28 01:46:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Since English is in fact a \u2018Creole\u2019,</em>\r\n\r\nIt's true
    that English absorbed a few foreign words and mannerisms between William I and
    Henry IV (the first English-speaking King since before William I), but its basic
    vocabulary and grammar remained the same -- Germanic. A Creole or pidgin language
    is a different kettle of fish."
  created: '2007-01-28 04:34:53'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "The creolization debate in regard to Middle English depends largely on how
    latitudinarian one's theory of creolization is, and thus how little change one
    requires to consider something to be a creole language. The proponents tend to
    take the view that any structural change that happens in a contact situation can
    be seen as the result of creolization, while the opponents tend to take the view
    that a change shouldn't be seen as creolization unless it is part of a package
    of total structural change.\r\n\r\nMiddle English has been argued to be a result
    of creolization of Old English with either Old Norse (Vikings) or Norman Old French
    (Normans), or in the most extreme (Bailey and Maroldt) version of the hypothesis,
    both (plus Ile-de-France French due to later medieval contact) in successive stages.
    The strongest case can be made for Old Norse, which had much more effect on grammar
    and core vocabulary than French did. But it's highly debatable among linguists
    whether that effect should be considered creolization, particularly since Old
    English and Old Norse were so closely related."
  created: '2007-01-28 11:40:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "David, thanks for your interesting window to the history of the evolution
    of English. I didn't know the history, and I wrote that English is a Creole partly
    in jest. I see from you there is in fact a serious scholarly debate about it.
    \r\n\r\nMy wife speaks a real Creole, and I've visited the place where she grew
    up, so I've been exposed a bit to the real thing. There are some striking differences
    between the structure of English and the kind of Creole my wife speaks, but also
    striking similarities. The Creole she speaks is much more dominantly French in
    origin. As Nick notes, the dominant source of the most commonly used words in
    English is Germanic. However there is huge amount of French, with estimates on
    the internet ranging from 30% to 60%. For example, the previous two sentences
    are about half/half Germanic and French origin, I am guessing.  \r\n\r\nThe similarity
    of my wife's Creole and English is that a lot of the  conjugation of French is
    wiped out. English is much less inflected than German. In this <a href=\"http://www.chass.utoronto.ca/~cpercy/courses/6361ryan.htm\">interesting
    review article</a> on the debate over English as a Creole, the author notes that
    a defining characteristic of a Creole is that it started as a 'pidgin' language,
    a language of underlings trying to speak the  language of foreign overlords, and
    acquiring their vocabulary with a radically simplified grammar, based on their
    own language of origin.   \r\n\r\nAccording to the wikipedia article on <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inflection\">Inflection</a>,
    Old English was inflected to a similar extent as German, but lost inflection in
    the transition to Middle English. This makes me suspect that a 'pidgin' French
    created by Old English speakers trying to speak French was indeed a factor. However,
    the article on inflection also notes that the current Scandinavian languages also
    lost their inflection, which Old Norse had. So there may be another process at
    work. \r\n\r\nI would be interested to know the theories of why English and Scandinavian
    languages became less inflected. I see the references in the Wikipedia article,
    but won't be going to them. I have this font to finish :) \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-28 16:08:13'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "<cite>I would be interested to know the theories of why English and Scandinavian
    languages became less inflected.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere's a general tendency over
    time for languages to add new features and simplify old ones all the time; for
    example in English over the past several generations the number of derivational
    affixes in colloquial use has increased through borrowing from Latin and Greek
    (e.g., <em>hyper-</em>), while subjunctives seem to be dying out in colloquial
    speech. How likely something is to resist the tendency to simplify depends on
    things like how much it's used and whether it's supported by clear sound patterns
    or parallel grammatical structures within the language. In the Germanic languages,
    accent tends to be toward the start of the word but the inflections are mostly
    at the end, and unstressed parts of the word are more likely to simplify, other
    things being equal. In this respect German and especially Icelandic are the odd
    ones in retaining their inflection systems.\r\n\r\nFor English, you can take your
    pick of two possibilities: either creolization or this normal simplification process.
    The simplification of Middle English seems to have occurred earliest and most
    thoroughly in northern England, where the most Viking settlement had occurred,
    but it has also been pointed out that the sound system in northern Old English
    seems already to have been changing in ways that gave less support to the inflection
    system. I'm sure the question will still be wide open when you get your font done
    :)\r\n\r\n<cite>For example, the previous two sentences are about half/half Germanic
    and French origin, I am guessing.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere's a lot of Latin in modern
    English too (meaning words that came into English directly from Latin rather than
    via Old French). In those two sentences, I get the following (omitting Nick's
    name, which comes from Greek):\r\nfrom Old English: as, the, of, most, -ly, in,
    English, is, however, there, French, with, on, net, from, thirty, to, sixty\r\nfrom
    French: note, source, common, use, huge, amount, range\r\nfrom Latin: Germanic,
    estimate, inter-, percent\r\nfrom either Latin or French: dominant\r\n\r\nBut
    your general point is quite right - the Latin words tend to be \"educated\" terminology,
    while the French words are basic functional vocabulary and quite pervasive in
    the language.\r\n\r\nPart of the question that's debated among linguists, as far
    as I can tell as an outsider, is whether you see a creole language as a new creation
    or creolization as a process that happens to existing languages. The thing that
    makes English different from classic creole languages like those of the West Indies
    is that there's quite a lot of continuity in the grammar as well as in core vocabulary
    from Old English. Some things were simplified, like noun inflections (from four
    cases to one and a half) and person-marking in verbs (from four categories to
    two), but a lot of the other grammatical features survived, more than usual in
    a pidgin->creole situation. There's enough continuity that the \"new creation\"
    model doesn't apply, but a process of simplification through widespread imperfect
    bilingualism might."
  created: '2007-01-28 19:49:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "David, thanks again for the interesting information. \r\n\r\nIt sounds like
    English has a rather unique history, with many different changes happening at
    once. Fascinating. "
  created: '2007-01-28 21:01:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Language is an ever-evolving beast. As we see more international communications,
    I am sure all languages borrow from each other.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-28 21:55:07'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "The linguistic history is fascinating (you learn so much around here) and
    it\u2019s probably tactless to come crashing in and bring this discussion back
    down to the practicalities of the shop floor. But that is at the heart of the
    question with which this thread started \u2013 how do you, or how should you,
    say <em>sans</em>? Compositors had founts of nonpareil (pronounced nom<strong>prull</strong>),
    brevier (bre<strong>veer</strong>) and bourgeois (bur<strong>joyce</strong>) in
    their type cases. When a British army found itself at Ypres in 1915 it sensibly
    called the place Wipers. People who had been to France or who fancied themselves
    on their posh pronunciation could show off with <em>Sansouci</em> or <em>Madame
    Sans-G\xEAne</em>, the success by Sardou (1893) that kept its original name on
    the London stage. If there were founts of sanserif (or sans-serif) types in the
    printing shop, which in practice were mostly called just sans for short (as in
    Gill Sans), it stood to reason that you said sans to rhyme with man\u2019s, whatever
    other people did outside. Still does.\r\n\r\nAs for the word serif, I have tried
    to get the Oxford English Dictionary to improve its entry. For its first use of
    <em>sanserif</em> it cites the same Figgins type specimen of 1830 twice, wrongly
    in each case: first as <em>San-Serif</em> (\u20188 Lines Pica San-Serif\u2019)
    and then, under the headword <em>ceriph</em>, as <em>Sans-cerif</em>. In the Figgins
    specimen it is in fact SANS-SERIF. For <em>serif</em> by itself OED has nothing
    earlier than Savage\u2019s <em>Dictionary of printing</em> (1841), which spells
    it <em>ceriph</em>. But there are several earlier uses of <em>serif</em> (variously
    spelt) than 1841 or even 1830. I know one of 1813 (\u2018surripses, more usually
    pronounced surriphs\u2019) and there is another in 1827 (\u2018syrifs, or cerefs\u2019).
    Justin Howes (of course) found <em>ceriph</em> used in 1785. I\u2019ll have another
    go at OED.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-29 09:43:27'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "<cite>If there were founts of sanserif (or sans-serif) types in the printing
    shop, which in practice were mostly called just sans for short (as in Gill Sans),
    it stood to reason that you said sans to rhyme with man\u2019s, whatever other
    people did outside.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis actually connects up nicely with all that
    linguistic history :) Because so much French got so thoroughly integrated into
    medieval English, the pronunciations got thoroughly anglicized, and it remained
    normal until much later to anglicize the pronunciation of French words coming
    into English (putting stress on first syllable, omitting nasalization, retaining
    consonants that were becoming silent in French, etc.). Since <em>sans</em> was
    already naturalized in Middle English, it would definitely have had an anglicized
    pronunciation. Unlike today, it would probably have been familiar to English speakers
    in Figgins' day as much from its use by Shakespeare as from contemporary French,
    so I would expect that it was usually pronounced to rhyme with either <em>man's</em>
    or <em>dance</em> outside printer's shops as well."
  created: '2007-01-29 12:28:55'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: Thanks. As I rather suspected. Good to know I was right. And I think Nomprull
    should have had the stress on the first syllable, not the second. You don't hear
    it quite so often these days, of course, but when you want get someone to insert
    a line space that is less than a whole Pica, it's quite a useful term.
  created: '2007-01-29 14:39:37'
date: '2007-01-23 12:05:31'
node_type: forum
title: How should "sans" be pronounced?

---
