---
author:
  name: Miss Tiffany
  picture: 110563
body: "It seems the topic of design for spec is something we could use a thread for
  reference at later dates. I'm hoping Peter Bain contributes as his thoughts on this
  matter are both articulate and thoughtful. \r\n\r\nDesign for spec, in my eyes,
  is degrading for the professional community at large. Personally--because it is
  a personal decision--I do not design on spec. If I am putting mouse to desk, or
  pencil to paper, I have an agreement in place for compensation. \r\n\r\nThe site
  http://www.no-spec.com/ has many interesting things on this topic and is worth reading.\r\n\r\nWhat
  are your thoughts? How do you handle it? Please don't use this thread as a place
  to vent or rant. Thoughtful contributions only please."
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "A student perspective:\r\n\r\nI stay away from all the spec jobs out there
    that prey on design students. They're usually in the form of some contest or other,
    often for obscure non-profits or small businesses seeking cheap web design. On
    top of just being downright insulted by the notion that I should have to do work
    beyond what I present as a portfolio to land work, I just don't have time for
    spec nonsense. At least design firms can find ways to write off lost spec work
    as business development and possibly sue the client if he uses it anyway. For
    me taking the time to design and revise work in the hope that it might get me
    paid at some point means taking time from my school, which, at $11,400 a semester,
    is a pretty stupid thing to due without a guaranteed payoff. \r\n\r\nIt's even
    worse insulting when the person trying to get the spec work is in an advertising/PR/design
    firm. Such a person should just get an unpaid intern, at least that way some course
    credit comes out of the work."
  created: '2007-01-24 00:00:18'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "<em>Spec work is a harmful practice.</em>\r\n\r\nDoing work on spec amounts
    to providing design work for free (or for a nominal fee) as part of a pitch for
    new business. Many major private and public sector clients think it is good business
    practice to require spec work as part of their search and selection process when
    recruiting the services of a graphic designer or design firm.\r\nIn fact, requests
    for spec work:\r\n<ul> <li>are exploitative, as they demand design work for free
    and without guarantee of compensation ;</li> <li>are therefore unethical ;</li>
    <li>offer no future potential ;</li> <li>can lead to copyright infringement ;</li>
    <li>devalue the profession of graphic design and lead to negative competitive
    practices ;</li> <li>threaten the integrity and work ethic of the graphic design
    profession ;</li> <li>are discouraged by allied professions such as the advertising
    industry.</li> </ul>\r\n\r\nNeither the designer nor the client benefit from spec
    work. Designers who work on spec cannot do justice to the design brief. They are
    unlikely to conduct the research and analysis needed to produce their best work,
    since they have no guarantee of remuneration. Further, their status as professionals
    and their role as consultants, partners or members of a strategic communications
    team are compromised."
  created: '2007-01-24 01:07:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "In Canada, barter is supposed to be accompanied by a slip from the supplier(s)
    detailing how much the work is worth, and this amount is taxable income.\r\n\r\nImagine
    if that stipulation were applied to those providing spec work..."
  created: '2007-01-24 01:51:17'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'I always tell me clients that it will harm them as much as myself not least
    because it''s a waste of time and opportunity for them. Dealt with in a straightforeward
    unemotional way, and thought through clearly almost everyone I have worked with
    understands that it''s not really a good idea. Design is a risk and somebody has
    to be willing to take that risk - just like in business. Often a design for spec
    request is a political/emotional response to not wanting to take that risk - often
    because the nature risk isn''t clear to them. The spec approach is ham handed
    attempt at reducing risk. Seen from that perspective it can be an oppotunity to
    form a bond with the peroson or group, frame the risk for them. Same as a doctor
    or lawyer might. Neither can completely insure a desired outcome but they can
    help bolster your chances! '
  created: '2007-01-24 02:05:36'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: It wouldn't be hard to do that here in the States, although I would imagine
    the nasty lawsuits would cause problems.
  created: '2007-01-24 02:06:10'
- body: "I had a truly negative experience doing a design \"test\" (aka \"spec\")for
    a job I really wanted.  Post second interview, I was given a four page layout
    assignment to \"test\" my skills.  They gave me text only, with complex organizational
    requirements, with zero style guidelines and no resource to inquire for further
    instruction. They requested I be \"creative.\"  My emails requesting further instruction
    went unanswered. \r\n\r\nI really wanted the gig, so I gave it my best shot with
    a classic \"arts and crafts\" style.  I produced an elegant, clean design, with
    seven hand drawn icons.  I spent a week on the project, only to be rejected with
    this reasoning: \"they were looking for a modern, layered style\". \r\n\r\nIt's
    the last time I ever do \"spec\" work even for a \"long term\" gig.\r\n\r\nSpec
    work, even disguised as part of the interview process, is bad for all design.
    It's like asking an actor to wear their favorite costume to an interview, and
    then, when they show up dressed as Spiderman, rejecting them because it's a Shakespeare
    play.\r\n\r\nAK"
  created: '2007-01-24 02:42:50'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Unfortunately, it's becoming more and more common in job interviews that
    there is some sort of \"creative\" provided: it's a disturbing trend here, as
    job-hunting (and poaching) is rampant, given the high demand for professionals.\r\n\r\nWhat's
    worse, this is happening at at senior level, not just entry-level. I've had supposedly
    respectable companies and educational institutions (not to name names publicly)
    demand multipage work (formal grants, large newsletters) created to their specifications,
    copies of successful projects that they can retain, etc.  I've picked up my briefcase,
    stuffed my portfolio away, and politely said \"thanks, but no thanks\" as I've
    walked out the door.\r\n\r\n(And have sworn mightily as I've headed home: there's
    a reason I've become excessively cynical over the years.)\r\n\r\nWhat's really
    sad is the number of people who actually jump though all those hoops in hopes
    of being \"the one.\"  "
  created: '2007-01-24 03:31:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Grant applications -- now there's a job of work.\r\nI tried it recently,
    spent ages thinking up and refining a research project, had many meetings with
    the faculty before writing the proposal. \r\nThen it was rejected by the grants
    foundation. I got the impression from their criticism that I should have had half
    the project figured out before I applied.\r\nSo yes, highly speculative. WAFWOT,
    never again."
  created: '2007-01-24 04:33:04'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "I think when you're a young designer you're more likely to do spec work.
    I did it as one of my first 'paid' (more on that later\u2026) jobs because 1.
    I was very grateful to be getting any gig and 2. My confidence in my own design
    skills were fairly low and 3. I had no idea or experience at these kind of things.
    \r\n\r\nI agreed to submit some logo designs for a interstate company through
    a middle-man type agency and worked *really* hard and long on them coming up with
    many variations. They liked some (I think) so I worked these up into finished
    ones, for some reason or other they wanted some more, so I worked on some rough
    thumbnails only (not wanting to spend more time coming up eith stuff they wouldn't
    use) and we emailed them through to the company. \r\n\r\nThat was the last I heard
    from either the company or the agency, no phone call no anything, I think I rang
    and was told the company was changing management so\u2026 I made up an invoice
    of my *very reasonable* expenses, printed it out, enclosed it a stamped envelope
    and then kept it in my car unsent until I finally threw it away. I was ashamed
    that I had shown the clients rough sketches and possibly scared them off, also
    we hadn't discussed any kind of payment, I believed the problem was my unprofessionalism.
    On reflection it seems like it was a bad situation from the beginning but perhaps
    I would've benefitted from having the courage to resolve the issue.\r\n\r\nMy
    point is that spec work problem comes from designers not having enough confidence
    in their abilities or ability to land a job and so they see it as a foot in the
    door for better or worse. Needless to say I won't make the same mistake again\r\n\r\n--N"
  created: '2007-01-24 04:33:11'
- author:
    name: gln
    picture: 110168
  body: "This is my form letter I send out on spec work.\r\n\r\nWHY WE DON'T MAKE
    SPECULATIVE PRESENTATIONS\r\n\r\nThe main product of our business is ideas \u2014
    creative solutions to the communications problems and opportunities facing our
    many clients. Good ideas \u2014 creativity \u2014 can be tough to define, or agree
    upon. One person's passion is often another's poison. So it's no wonder that potential
    clients often ask us to take a project on speculation. That is, to try out our
    creative product in much the same way they may try out other types of products
    before purchasing.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, we must turn down such projects. This
    will explain why doing so actually makes us a better, more stable and reliable
    supplier for you to do business with.\r\n\r\nIT LETS US KEEP OUR PRICES LOW\r\n\r\nWe
    make money mostly by selling our time. Unlike businesses that sell products, we
    can't take time back and resell it. Thus, the less time we actually sell, the
    more we have to charge for it. So we attempt to hold our prices down by keeping
    constantly busy. \r\n\r\nWe also have substantial fixed overhead costs \u2014
    computers, peripherals, software, etc. So the higher the percentage of our time
    that is productive (billable), the more we can spread these costs, and the less
    each individual client gets charged for them.\r\n\r\n\r\nIn addition, the only
    way we can recover our overhead costs is through what we charge our clients. If
    we accepted speculative projects, the overhead for these non-billable hours would
    have to be added to the\r\nfactor we already charge our regular, paying clients.
    We don't think this would be fair. \r\n\r\n\r\nWE WANT TO GIVE YOU ONLY OUR BEST\r\n\r\nWe
    are very proud of our track record of helping many different clients with many
    different challenges.\r\nIn doing so, we have come to understand the crucial components
    in producing outstanding creativity.\r\n\r\nFirst, outstanding creative work requires
    good, complete input from our clients. It takes time and effort that's tough for
    them to justify unless they are committed to awarding an assignment. Yet without
    it, we can't show how good we really are. Or our best effort may well be misdirected;
    a great shot that hits the wrong target.\r\n\r\nEqually important, great creativity
    requires enthusiasm. We need to be excited enough to pour all our\r\nenergy into
    a project. Frankly, that's impossible without knowing whether we will be chosen
    to go all the way, or even get paid.\r\n\r\nAnd, finally, developing creativity
    is very labor intensive. Although we wish it were otherwise, it seldom comes in
    a flash of inspiration. Rather, it usually requires research and thinking time,
    then the working through of many different ideas and approaches. This makes it
    difficult or impossible to do good work in\r\na compressed time frame.\r\n\r\nSpeculative
    projects, whether done by us or some other firm, usually require cutting every
    creative corner. That's hardly in your best interests, or ours.\r\n\r\nWE'RE A
    SMALL FIRM, IN BUSINESS TO STAY\r\n\r\nWe hope our small size is what attracted
    you to us. It has lots of business advantages.\r\n\r\nBecause we are small, you
    get to deal directly with those actually doing your work; there are no \u201Cmiddle-
    men\u201D to muck things up. It also means we're more flexible, able to turn things
    around faster. We can offer better, more personal service too. Because our overhead
    is lower than the big guys, so are our prices. In a business like creativity,
    size is seldom an advantage. \r\n\r\nAll these are reasons why we have been so
    successful. It may also be why you called us.\r\n\r\nAnother reason for our success
    is that we are good business people. We know that a small business like ours (probably
    yours, too) has to watch costs carefully and can't afford to give much away. If
    we weren't careful \u2014 if we did give away our time \u2014 it is likely we
    wouldn't be here next time you called, which means you'd have start all over again
    bringing someone else up to speed learning your business. We doubt you'd want
    that, and we know we wouldn't. We believe we should both be looking to build a
    long-term, mutually-productive and cost-efficient business relationship.\r\n\r\nTruth
    is, small organizations like ours can seldom afford to accept speculative projects.
    If you find one that will, be skeptical, they may be desperate.\r\n\r\nAs for
    larger organizations and agencies, yes they can afford to do speculative projects,
    and often do. But that's the very point. If they do have the volume and staff
    that makes it a small risk for them, they're probably too big to give you the
    personal service and outstanding creativity you're searching for.\r\n\r\nWe hope
    you'll give us the opportunity sometime soon to prove just how good we really
    are.\r\nI would be happy to show you our complete portfolio. The work we have
    done for many other clients with many other challenges speaks volumes about our
    abilities. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\ngln"
  created: '2007-01-24 05:02:24'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> This is my form letter I send out on spec work.\r\n\r\nThis is the State
    of The Union  :^) "
  created: '2007-01-24 09:54:42'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "I want to stick up for the \"test\" that some companies make a designer do
    as part of the hiring process. Now this is evil if the goal is to \"get ideas\"
    or develop work that can be sold. But when hiring entry level staff, who often
    have underwhelming portfolios (or suspect portfolios) this can be useful.\r\n\r\nFor
    instance, a portfolio might have a few dozen good examples, but did they take
    three hours, or three weeks to design. And are they entirely the designers work,
    or more likely they have passed through an instructors hands two or three times,
    with suggestions to make them more professional looking.\r\n\r\nA one to two hour
    test, with four or five tasks, can be very useful in determining exactly how familiar
    a junior is with the software, and how much training will be needed to get him/her
    up to speed. The test should be the same one for all interviewees, to enable comparison
    of the results.\r\n\r\nHere is the reason why this is done. A place asks an applicant
    \"Do you know Pagemaker\" (several years ago, when it was an almost current program).
    \"Sure, we took it in school.\"\r\n\r\nApplicant is given a floppy with an image,
    a text file, and told to make it into a 3.5 x 5 inch newspaper ad (a staple of
    that position). Checking 15 minutes later, applicant has nothing done, but is
    furiously working the menus and palettes of PageMaker, totally lost.\r\n\r\nApparently
    she took PageMaker in school three years earlier in first term, and hadn't touched
    it since. She had totally no clue what she was doing. Hiring her would have been
    an expensive mistake."
  created: '2007-01-24 14:20:44'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"But when hiring entry level staff, who often have underwhelming portfolios
    (or suspect portfolios) this can be useful.\"\r\n\r\nIf the portfolio is 'suspect'
    or 'underwhelming' why hire them for anything other than an entry level position
    to begin with?\r\n\r\nIf I were hiring in a firm, I'd ask people to take the creative
    test. Then I'd only hire the folks that refused to do it. ;o)\r\n\r\nThat said,
    you're not talking about a creative test. You're talking about software proficiency
    skills. And while the person was incorrect in saying 'sure, I know pagemaker'
    I wouldn't have called it an 'expensive mistake' to hire her either. A competant
    designer can learn software in a weekend if given the chance.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-24 14:31:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There is a difference between spec work and a hiring test--at least there
    should be! A hiring test should not be something that would ever be used beyond
    that person's job interview and surely not a piece the company could profit from
    in any way. I am not fond of the hiring test myself and believe the portfolio,
    interview, and resume should be enough. I am fine with having a probationary period
    that the person would be paid for their work but be let go if their performance
    does not jive with what their portfolio showed.\r\nSpec work is just slave labor
    and is demeaning to the young designers trying to get a job. The so-called \"contest\"
    is just another euphamism for free work. The only way to stop it is if nobody
    buys into it. Even if you are a starving design student fresh out just looking
    for a first job. I guarantee, you won't get it this way. What you will get is
    screwed--upsidedown, rightsideup, and sideways, Screwed. You will not gain confidence--you
    will just feel used and abused. \r\nDesign a good portfolio, join your local AIGA
    or ADC and start meeting people who might be able to connect you with something
    later. Get a temporary job as a waiter if you need to (I sold shoes) but don't
    bite on the spec bull S@#t.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-24 15:17:26'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Thank you very much for this thread (and the other one related), it helped
    me a lot in a situation I found myself in yesterday. I had decided to turn down
    competitions anyway, but Typophile just reinforced my decision.\r\n\r\nI was asked
    to quote a price for a corporate image last week, and yesterday they contacted
    me asking if I would agree to make a few preliminary suggestions for free, as
    someone else had offered to do just that, before they decide who they are going
    to work with. The other company/designer was only going to give a price if their
    design was chosen. I turned the suggestion down telling the potential client that
    my portfolio should be enough proof of my skills and style and that I don't do
    competitions.\r\n\r\nI have competed occasionally in the past, but they rarely
    turn out to be fruitful, since the job is usually given to the VP's niece's next
    door neighbour anyway."
  created: '2007-01-24 15:31:27'
- author:
    name: elizabeth_355
    picture: 112087
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ionlypayif_6080.jpg]'
  created: '2007-01-24 15:58:24'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: ROFL!  Now there's a T-shirt for designers if there ever was one.
  created: '2007-01-24 16:04:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...the job is usually given to the VP\u2019s niece\u2019s next door neighbour
    anyway.\"\r\n\r\nOr to the woman he sleeps with behind his wife's back. :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-24 16:08:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I should comment that the vast majority of clients out there are reputable
    and would not use such tactics as work for spec or bogus contests. There are some
    slugs out there who feed on the young and hungry designers though and these are
    the bottom feeders of whom we speak.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-24 16:15:05'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Would you consider it spec work if you did design work purely on your own
    - as a pitch to a potential client? In other words, they didn't ask you to, you
    did it on your own and approached them first? Thoughts? (I read an article a while
    back, where an illustrator does this, and it's worked quite well.)
  created: '2007-01-24 16:26:47'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I'd like to follow-up on Chris's comment about hiring tests -- one of the
    best ones I ever took (a number of years ago, for a regional Canadian book publisher)
    had some useful questions like Don's talked about (identifying samples set in
    TNR, Avant Garde, Palatino, and Helvetica), but my favourite question was:\r\n\r\n<em>Draw
    a freehand map of Canada and label at least one place in each province with its
    appropriate Canadian literary connection. Extra points for additional places correctly
    identified in novels or non-fiction, giving title and/or author.</em>\r\n\r\nToo
    bad they took three months (!) to make up their minds and weren't paying much
    more than minimum wage: I was offered a better-paying gig in the interim before
    they offered me this job."
  created: '2007-01-24 16:31:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Would you consider it spec work if you did design work purely on your own
    ...\"\r\n\r\nI think that is a different beast. In that case, youare creating
    a portfoio piece.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-24 16:37:05'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Unfortunately there seems to be a common practice in the US for agencies
    to compete (generally at the potential client's request as RFP) to win an account.\r\n\r\nThis
    process involve throwing LOTS and LOTS of creative development into proposing
    ad, TV, print and web campaigns just in order to compete for the client's account.
    Rewards can be big, but it's still basically \"on spec\"."
  created: '2007-01-24 17:19:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "RFPs that involve doing design as part of them should include a pre-established
    \ proposal fee for each submitter.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-24 17:26:53'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: "This was posted on Craigslist just the other day, then removed because too
    many people were offended by it. Too bad requests for spec aren't removed by all
    the offended designers! Here it is (author unknown):\r\n\r\nEvery day, there are
    more and more CL posts seeking \"artists\" for everything from auto graphics to
    comic books to corporate logo designs. More people are finding themselves in need
    of some form of illustrative service. \r\n\r\nBut what they're NOT doing, unfortunately,
    is realizing how rare someone with these particular talents can be. \r\n\r\nTo
    those who are \"seeking artists\", let me ask you; How many people do you know,
    personally, with the talent and skill to perform the services you need? A dozen?
    Five? One? ...none? \r\n\r\nMore than likely, you don't know any. Otherwise, you
    wouldn't be posting on craigslist to find them. \r\n\r\nAnd this is not really
    a surprise. \r\n\r\nIn this country, there are almost twice as many neurosurgeons
    as there are professional illustrators. There are eleven times as many certified
    mechanics. There are SEVENTY times as many people in the IT field. \r\n\r\nSo,
    given that they are less rare, and therefore less in demand, would it make sense
    to ask your mechanic to work on your car for free? Would you look him in the eye,
    with a straight face, and tell him that his compensation would be the ability
    to have his work shown to others as you drive down the street? \r\n\r\nWould you
    offer a neurosurgeon the \"opportunity\" to add your name to his resume as payment
    for removing that pesky tumor? (Maybe you could offer him \"a few bucks\" for
    \"materials\". What a deal!) \r\n\r\nWould you be able to seriously even CONSIDER
    offering your web hosting service the chance to have people see their work, by
    viewing your website, as their payment for hosting you? \r\n\r\nIf you answered
    \"yes\" to ANY of the above, you're obviously insane. If you answered \"no\",
    then kudos to you for living in the real world. \r\n\r\nBut then tell me... why
    would you think it is okay to live out the same, delusional, ridiculous fantasy
    when seeking someone whose abilities are even less in supply than these folks?
    \r\n\r\nGraphic artists, illustrators, painters, etc., are skilled tradesmen.
    As such, to consider them as, or deal with them as, anything less than professionals
    fully deserving of your respect is both insulting and a bad reflection on you
    as a sane, reasonable person. In short, it makes you look like a twit. \r\n\r\nA
    few things you need to know; \r\n\r\n1. It is not a \"great opportunity\" for
    an artist to have his work seen on your car/'zine/website/bedroom wall, etc. It
    IS a \"great opportunity\" for YOU to have their work there. \r\n\r\n2. It is
    not clever to seek a \"student\" or \"beginner\" in an attempt to get work for
    free. It's ignorant and insulting. They may be \"students\", but that does not
    mean they don't deserve to be paid for their hard work. You were a \"student\"
    once, too. Would you have taken that job at McDonalds with no pay, because you
    were learning essential job skills for the real world? Yes, your proposition it
    JUST as stupid. \r\n\r\n3. The chance to have their name on something that is
    going to be seen by other people, whether it's one or one million, is NOT a valid
    enticement. Neither is the right to add that work to their \"portfolio\". They
    get to do those things ANYWAY, after being paid as they should. It's not compensation.
    It's their right, and it's a given. \r\n\r\n4. Stop thinking that you're giving
    them some great chance to work. Once they skip over your silly ad, as they should,
    the next ad is usually for someone who lives in the real world, and as such, will
    pay them. There are far more jobs needing these skills than there are people who
    possess these skills. \r\n\r\n5. Students DO need \"experience\". But they do
    NOT need to get it by giving their work away. In fact, this does not even offer
    them the experience they need. Anyone who will not/can not pay them is obviously
    the type of person or business they should be ashamed to have on their resume
    anyway. Do you think professional contractors list the \"experience\" they got
    while nailing down a loose step at their grandmother's house when they were seventeen?
    \r\n\r\nIf you your company or gig was worth listing as desired experience, it
    would be able to pay for the services it received. The only experience they will
    get doing free work for you is a lesson learned in what kinds of scrubs they should
    not lower themselves to deal with. \r\n\r\n6. (This one is FOR the artists out
    there, please pay attention.) Some will ask you to \"submit work for consideration\".
    They may even be posing as some sort of \"contest\". These are almost always scams.
    They will take the work submitted by many artists seeking to win the \"contest\",
    or be \"chosen\" for the gig, and find what they like most. They will then usually
    have someone who works for them, or someone who works incredibly cheap because
    they have no originality or talent of their own, reproduce that same work, or
    even just make slight modifications to it, and claim it as their own. You will
    NOT be paid, you will NOT win the contest. The only people who win, here, are
    the underhanded folks who run these ads. This is speculative, or \"spec\", work.
    It's risky at best, and a complete scam at worst. I urge you to avoid it, completely.
    For more information on this subject, please visit www.no-spec.com. \r\n\r\nSo
    to artists/designers/illustrators looking for work, do everyone a favor, ESPECIALLY
    yourselves, and avoid people who do not intend to pay you. Whether they are \"spec\"
    gigs, or just some guy who wants a free mural on his living room walls. They need
    you. You do NOT need them. \r\n\r\nAnd for those who are looking for someone to
    do work for free... please wake up and join the real world. The only thing you're
    accomplishing is to insult those with the skills you need. Get a clue. \r\n"
  created: '2007-01-24 20:33:39'
- body: "Bruce -- What an AWESOME post!  I'm on my feet, screaming, clapping and stomping
    my happy feet as if it were the very last minute of Bush's presidency!  \r\n\r\nI
    for one, will flag every Craigslist post looking for spec work from now on. Are
    you all with me? \r\n\r\nAlaskan"
  created: '2007-01-25 07:30:20'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Hey Bruce (and everyone else), Unbeige has <a href="http://www.mediabistro.com/unbeige/web/wanted_you_to_feel_really_dumb_about_doing_spec_work_51734.asp"
    target="_blank">a post</a> about that <a href="http://newyork.craigslist.org/mnh/crg/266662037.html"
    target="_blank">Craigslist bait-and-switch ad</a> -- seems lik it is still up
    after all!
  created: '2007-01-25 08:20:06'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Nick - in the USA we are suppose to get a bill and give a bill in a barter
    situation. It is suppose to be counted as income -- but it is a practice most
    tend to forget. For others, they belong to \"barter\" clubs -- where there is
    a network of people offering services. I do work for a community theatre that
    this year was able to get all new carpeting for their lobby and theater aisles
    - because of this type of club.\r\n\r\nAs for spec work. It looks like we are
    all agreed - it's a no-no. I just wanted to put my little old 2 cents in for the
    new graphic designers out there -- and maybe it will one day help someone. I already
    referred someone to this in another thread that was here. That said, the advice
    is -- you have a price in your head of what you would like to charge for the job.
    Instead of spec - offer a 33% reject fee. Or rather, ask for 33% down and offer
    your sketches after the check clears the bank. If the customer is unhappy with
    the thumbprints - then... keep the 33% as a reject fee and move on. If the customer
    is happy, get the next 33% and upon finalization and fulfillment - collect the
    last 34%. \r\n\r\nHope that helps someone one day."
  created: '2007-01-25 09:14:21'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "Just a fast note to say that Jackie is right on in his recommendations, and
    I agree with what others have said above. \r\n\r\nI never do spec work -- it drains
    away time that can be better put to other things. In my opinion, spec work is
    like buying a lottery ticket, which I consider to be a tax on the poor. We designers
    as a species tend to be not paid very much as it is, so why not keep our precious
    energies for either true paying work, or for generating portfolio work on our
    own time that is <em>exactly</em> the way we want it to be."
  created: '2007-01-25 13:39:00'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Eben has hit the nail squarely on the head, and what I like most is that
    he frames it in terms that a business client will understand (an important skill
    in a designer):\r\n\r\n\"<em>Design is a risk and somebody has to be willing to
    take that risk - just like in business....Seen from that perspective it can be
    an opportunity to form a bond with the person or group, frame the risk for them.</em>\"\r\n\r\nThis
    is exactly how I describe it as well (and have done so with clients). It's completely
    logical for someone to try and reduce their risk in this way, just as it's completely
    logical for a designer to push back and explain why. For design to work best,
    both sides must be committed to the process and to contributing the best input
    they can provide. In other words, they need to have a stake in the game. Otherwise,
    it's a well-trained shot in the dark."
  created: '2007-01-25 19:45:49'
- author:
    name: hwhite
  body: "As a small business owner on a budget....\r\n\r\n(with a personal interest
    in graphic design - but with no talent & skills yet - but it's one of my goals
    - so consider me a pre-newbee and please don't kick me off this board) \r\n\r\n.....I
    just want to say that I have always and only 'paid as agreed' once the contracted
    work was completed. Not having the budget for some agency - I usually made my
    decision on \"who to hire\" based on viewing a pre-existing portfolio of work
    and the artist bid price. \r\n\r\nSince I've only used eLance so far to find my
    artists - I have never even thought of getting the work done on spec. (Not an
    option on eLance.) \r\n\r\nBut now that it's come up - I don't think its fair
    to lump all small business owners looking for cheap web design into a group that
    would require 'on spec' work.\r\n\r\nI agree with the lot of you - that considering
    what's involved in your line of work (way too much variable information) it's
    just not right for anyone to expect work of this nature to be done for free. \r\n\r\n\r\n-------\r\nMy
    day job involves Real Estate and real estate agents are also conned into this
    work for free stuff. \r\n\r\nFor example there are millions for fly-by-night and
    legitimate BPO companies that offer agents almost nothing to run around in their
    cars - often 30 to 50 miles out of their way, expecting them to take pictures
    of some house and then go back to the office or home and spend another 2-3 hours
    doing a detailed BPO (Broker's Price Opinion - like a mini appraisal,) and then
    uploading all the details and the property photos online. The BPO company get's
    $150-$200 from the person ordering the BPO and the agent is lucky to get $30-50.\r\n\r\nMany
    agents get hooked on doing these - especially when business is slow - because
    every once and a while - a BPO turns into a future listing (the odds here are
    as likely as winning a graphic artist contest.) \r\n\r\nTotal waste of time in
    my opinion. (ask me how I know)\r\n\r\nMany of these companies never even pay.\r\n\r\nBut
    - there are 100's of new or otherwise struggling Real Estate agents ready to do
    these 'bit' jobs and plenty of folks \"selling\" lists of these BPO companies
    encouraging agents to sign up and make extra money.\r\n\r\nSo, having done a fair
    few of these in my life - I can appreciate where you are all coming from when
    you talk about doing work and not getting paid. \r\n\r\nEven now - I'm still in
    a profession that only gets me paid at the END of a transaction, IF and only IF
    we can close the deal.  So, sometimes I put in hundreds of hours on a transaction
    - only to see the deal fall apart.\r\n\r\nBut I don't mind, because the prize
    is a nice healthy commission check. My risk is justified by my potential reward.
    And as long as I have a constant flow of transactions - it won't kill me when
    one or two don't close.\r\n\r\nBut that's for a real commission - not a lousy
    $50.00.\r\n\r\n------\r\n\r\nBack to your world....\r\n\r\nThat CL post above
    that talked about how RARE real graphic artists and illustrators are -- is that
    really true???\r\n\r\nMaybe that's why I've had so much trouble finding anyone
    really good to help me design my various websites and company logos and marketing
    pieces.\r\n\r\nI don't have the funds to hire some local hot shot advertising
    agency.  And even if I did - I'm sure I'd still be considered an entry level client
    - so I'd expect even them to spit out something relatively mediocre - even if
    it's wrapped in prettier paper.\r\n\r\nBottom line - as a small business owner
    - I am willing and eager to pay fair prices for quality work.  But it's so hard
    to find the right person.\r\n\r\n-------------\r\nSo far - for my various business/real
    estate projects - where I've needed artistic input - I've only used eLance to
    find illustrators, graphic artists, etc. \r\n\r\nHave I been looking in the wrong
    place?\r\n\r\nAnd even though I wasn't always blown away by the results - I always
    paid the agreed amount once the product was delivered.\r\n\r\n----------------\r\nI
    guess what I'm trying to say is that it's difficult being on the other side (my
    end) - you know - needing the creative input - and yet not wanting to have another
    round of mediocre work put in front of you after agreeing to pay X for it.\r\n\r\nStill
    - I don't think I'd want to hire an artist who was willing to work for free.  I'd
    feel guilty and I'd think they had no real confidence in themselves.\r\n\r\nAre
    there any ways to test if an artist is creating original work, can actually draw
    or illustate, and is not just manipulating clip art?\r\n\r\nI always end up picking
    the artist that has in their portfolios the most beautiful illustrations - such
    as the restaurant logo with rendered wine grapes or ivy wrapped around some beautiful
    font declaring the restaurants name - with multiple shadow affects on the box,
    etc. \r\n\r\nThen after I've made my choice - I always get presented with some
    under whelming collection of truly un-attractive, poorly designed, poorly balanced
    - choices -that even I can see aren't good or well thought out. \r\n\r\nOften
    these images incorporate recognizable clip art graphic elements and have bland
    type faces that do not appear to have any kerning capability. (if that's the right
    word for spacing between letters.)\r\n\r\nSo I ask the hired graphic artist, \"Can
    you incorporate a cute illustrated house that looks like those grapes in that
    restaurant logo?\"   \r\n\r\n\"Oh no, those are more expensive logos....that's
    not what you're getting here,\" says the winning eLance bidder.\r\n\r\nSo I take
    the best of the boring and tweak it - suggesting improvements until it's almost
    OK or at least no longer offends my sensibilities - and THEN after I've paid for
    the work and received the files, I realize the logo is inside a White Box, the
    blue background is too light to use in print media, and the image won't work on
    anything that doesn't have a White Background.  \r\n\r\nNow what???\r\n\r\nUsually
    - the artist is gone, non-responsive or when they get back to me - wants me to
    open up another order.\r\n\r\nPerhaps one of you can write a book for the small
    business owners:  \r\n\r\n\"How to Select and Hire an Independent Graphic Artist
    and Illustrator to Enhance Your Business Image without Losing Your Shirt.\"  \r\n\r\nIf
    so - I'll buy the first copy.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nHeidi"
  created: '2007-01-26 08:53:09'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<em>\u201CHow to Select and Hire an Independent Graphic Artist and Illustrator
    to Enhance Your Business Image without Losing Your Shirt.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    is a resource on the AIGA which might help <a href=\"http://www.aiga.org/content.cfm/business\">Client\u2019s
    guide to design</a>.\r\n\r\nPart of what you describe is the risk that Eben describes
    and it seems to me that impersonal web-contact is an added risk. I would recommend
    you actually meet face-to-face with a local designer or agency, needn't be a hotshot
    agency, for each hotshot agency there are many more grounded, realistic agencies
    (at least, I hope so, I am in London and don't know the situation there).\r\nSince
    you are aware of kerning and have an interest in design, I would guess that you
    have an advantage over many clients, use that advantage to create the brief for
    the job.\r\nProvide an indication of objectives; the functions of the piece by
    priority; the target audience; if possible, copy and images; any legal requirements.
    You might provide a \u2018mood board\u2019 of colours or looks that appeal to
    you (or appeal to your target audience). You aren\u2019t trying to design the
    piece but you are giving them as clear a guidance as possible, this could include
    dislikes or definite no-no\u2019s. You can agree a budget and a timeline for proof(s),
    approval, sign-off and production. Different designers work in different ways,
    spend some time to find one that you can get along with professionally, an experienced
    designer will be able to assess your requirements and advise on the achievability
    of the project. You could, I suppose, ask your competitors who does their design
    (if you admire it, obviously).\r\nHope you keep your shirt,\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-26 12:32:55'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Here's my two cents on the subject. I'm learning on-the-job and each time
    I edit/design/produce something, I put a few copies aside. However, given the
    job I have, these are all pretty plain publications. I get little to no opportunity
    to work with colour, but I would like to learn. I also would like to work on something
    other than academic material. \r\n\r\nSo, when a friend of an ex-boyfriend (should
    have recognized that as a warning sign immediately) called up asking if I wanted
    to be the designer for the literary/arts journal, I was thrilled. She said they
    hadn't secured a publisher yet, but that if they did, the gig would become a paying
    gig. I was happy to be given the opportunity, even without the cash, because I
    figured it would be something to add to my portfolio, and I'd learn a few things
    (which I did, just not what I thought I'd learn). \r\n\r\nThere were two women
    driving the project -- both of them with impressive (to me) credentials: an Oxford
    scholar and professor, and an editor at a large publishing house.  Since they
    were in England, everything would be done by email, and that was ok by me. I was
    totally enthusiastic. When she sent me the specs, I eagerly got started designing
    a couple of sample spreads. I sent that back to them and waited for a reply. And
    waited. And waited. When it finally came, some 3 weeks later, she apologized for
    taking so long, and then had a list of changes they wanted to see. More affirmations
    about how the journal was progressing, how busy they'd been, and when they expected
    to present the proposal. I made the changes, feeling twinges of annoyance that
    she had been so unprofessional about getting back to me. I sent the changes and
    again, I waited over a month before I heard anything. This time, the response
    was that they liked the design, they were going to use it in the proposal, and
    that \"we have listed you as part of the core journal team, as head of deisgn.\"\r\n\r\nThat's
    when I knew. \r\n\r\nAny time someone tries, unprompted, to bestow upon you titles
    that will make you feel important and reassure you of your (until then unquestioned)
    place in the group, take a look at the way they're acting. Chances are they're
    just trying to use you a little longer by appealing to your ego. \r\n\r\nI received
    that last email in October and haven't heard boo since. Not even a \"hey, sorry,
    things didn't work out\". Nothing. \r\n\r\nWhich also makes me think I *should*
    judge people by who their friends are. \r\n\r\nOn the other hand, I do free editing
    for a friend at work. He desperately needs, and greatly appreciates the help.
    It gives me a chance to practice and it turns into a mini language lesson for
    him. He's learning, and he buys me lunch at the end of the semester. \r\n\r\nK."
  created: '2007-01-26 15:08:53'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "And you've learned more than a few valuable lessons, Kristina -- most of
    them good ones.  \r\n\r\nAs designers, we get to pick and choose, like anyone
    else, who we want to volunteer our time for.  I don't look at doing umpaid work
    for causes I believe in as doing work on spec, and I've even chosen to volunteer
    for something simply because it would give me the opportunity to either learn
    something new, or make contacts that in the future, could (and have, in the past)
    turn into paying jobs.\r\n\r\nBut that's a choice we make, not one imposed on
    us by others.\r\n\r\n(And sure, everyone has an ego.  I got suckered into a job
    like that for a friend of a friend, with grand promises of, well, grand promises.
    \ Turns out that he did this to every design firm he ever worked with.)\r\n\r\n<em>It
    gives me a chance to practice and it turns into a mini language lesson for him.
    He\u2019s learning, and he buys me lunch at the end of the semester.</em>\r\n\r\nI've
    got a client like this as well.  She pays out-of-pocket to me to tidy up and buys
    good lunches: wish I had ten clients like her, as I'd have enough work to keep
    me busy and never have to buy lunch.  ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-26 15:24:12'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> That CL post above that talked about how RARE real graphic artists and
    illustrators are \u2014 is that really true???\r\n\r\nReal graphic artists are
    rare. Throw a stone into a crowd, and it is unlikely you will be hitting a GA.
    You could even through a lot of stones (at least until the police come to get
    you.)\r\n\r\nHowever, there are a lot of \"wannabe\" Graphic Artists. They bought
    Photoshop (or downloaded a pirate of it) and expect to make a living at it. Throw
    as many stones at these people as you want."
  created: '2007-01-26 16:20:50'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Designing for an as-yet unpublished magazine or journal can be a risk, sometimes
    it turns into acrimony but can be sublime, I have done something very similar,
    even down to the ex-girlfriend, and although it took time, did work out after
    a (long) while and with some of the spreads in my portfolio I was able to move
    on having passed on the work to a friend of mine who had just left college. OTOH
    an ex-colleague (who, frankly, should have known better) did something similar
    and ended up having her credit card cloned and identity stolen and now faces all
    kinds of legal hoops and hurdles.\r\nPro-bono can be satisfying, but isn\u2019t
    speculative work, in the situation of paid pitch work I suspect I put more into
    it than the payment warrants, so I can't truly claim that I refuse to do spec
    work.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-26 16:26:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Don nailed it pretty well with his post above. Years ago before computers
    got into the business. It was too hard for a wannabe to make a showing so there
    were far fewer. Today, anybody who buys software and clip art thinks they can
    do it. These folks dilute the marketr for the skilled designers--mostly they affect
    the younger recent grads trying to make their way. They also rarely understand
    production and prep for printing so clients get burned by having there jobs fail
    to print as expected. Clients then get annoyed and blame the whole profession.
    As designers, we owe it to our clients to guarantee that our work will print as
    specified (given the printer knows his job too).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-26 16:37:06'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">stones\r\nCouldn't we be more creative and hurl old puck-shaped mouses?\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-26 17:22:25'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I only "audition" for design jobs if there is a fee for my spec work. Both
    from the standpoint of paying me for my hard work and also hedging against them
    stealing my ideas and going with another designer. If I've been paid then I feel
    they have the right to my ideas, even tho I'd be mighty steamed if I saw them
    in another person's work.
  created: '2007-01-26 17:34:33'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Gerald and Bruce's posts were awesome. Whenever I get an e-mail from someone
    telling me "it'll help me build my portfolio" I'll send them the latter response.
    :)
  created: '2007-01-27 03:35:37'
- author:
    name: inarges
    picture: 109620
  body: "Heidi - I'm sorry you've had such bad experiences with freelancers. I don't
    actually know much about eLance (okay, next to nothing), so I couldn't say why
    in particular you've had bad experiences through them, though as someone said
    above, the de-personalizing effect of the internet is part of it.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    one thing that I've observed is that all of the best designers and art directors
    I know are employed full-time by various agencies, or they've started up their
    own agencies.\r\n\r\nI think that small business people in particular like to
    do business with a single freelancer because it tends to be a little less expensive
    and maybe feels more comfortable - but the niche of being a self-employed, solo,
    GOOD freelance designer or art director is really small. If you're good, you tend
    to get snapped up by an agency. So the solo freelancer is a person who has enough
    just enough entrepreneurial spirit not to want to work for someone else, but not
    quite enough to go ahead and establish their own design firm and start hiring
    other people. I think that's a pretty rare situation, and tends to be an intermediate
    phase for most people.\r\n\r\nI also think that a good freelance designer or art
    director is liable to be getting work through her personal network, word of mouth,
    existing contacts, etc. That person is far less likely to sign up with eLance
    in the first place, much less rely on it as a source of income.\r\n\r\nThat is
    my opinion - I've got nothing to back it up but my own life experience. \r\n\r\n\r\nAs
    far as having better experiences for the future, I would echo Tim's advice & look
    for a small local firm where you can feel out the designers yourself and get local
    references / recommendations. \r\n\r\nGood luck."
  created: '2007-01-27 05:31:00'
- author:
    name: mjpatrick
    picture: 111908
  body: "There is lots of good advice from some very wise people to be read here.
    \r\n\r\nUnfortunately, I was not so wise. I did quite a bit of spec work when
    I started on my own. I didn't have many contacts and was pretty desperate for
    any work or exposure I could get. Most of the spec work I'd chosen to take on
    was tailored towards creating elements I thought would help bolster the portfolio
    I'd built at school. \r\n\r\nI also saw a need to keep myself sharp design-wise,
    and although I wasn't thrilled with the idea of designing for free, I saw it at
    least a little more legitimate than if I'd simply created my own projects to fill
    the void.\r\n\r\nLooking back a lot of the experiences that came from them were
    fairly damaging. Lots of time lost on jobs that went nowhere. Initial bewilderment
    and then disgust with individuals who requested countless design changes with
    little if any respect to my time or efforts. And it never helped much with paying
    the bills of course.\r\n\r\nAlso, very little of the spec work I did wound up
    in any portfolio. Some work was left unfinished because I got tired trying to
    make some cheapskate vision see the light of day. As for the work that did get
    done... that usually came with so many headaches I never wanted to look at it
    again.\r\n\r\nDesign for spec was also the first experience I had where an artist
    took artwork I had submitted on good faith and credited himself for it.\r\n\r\nI
    should note that I don't write the experiences off as a complete loss; they certainly
    taught me to read people and what they are actually asking for better. They also
    gave me experience, although not the kind I'd thought I'd get....\r\n\r\nThankfully
    those days seem to be behind me now. When I read the comments about designing
    for spec devaluing not just the work itself but the profession as a whole, I can
    only remember what I went through and agree 100%.... don't do it, it's not worth
    it."
  created: '2007-01-27 06:45:24'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>However, one thing that I\u2019ve observed is that all of the best
    designers and art directors I know are employed full-time by various agencies,
    or they\u2019ve started up their own agencies....but the niche of being a self-employed,
    solo, GOOD freelance designer or art director is really small. If you\u2019re
    good, you tend to get snapped up by an agency.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhoa there. That
    may be true of advertising or branding but not so at all in other areas of design.
    In fact one of the great things about being a designer is the ability to make
    a good living without being full-time employed.\r\n\r\n<cite>I also think that
    a good freelance designer or art director is liable to be getting work through
    her personal network, word of mouth, existing contacts, etc. That person is far
    less likely to sign up with eLance in the first place, much less rely on it as
    a source of income.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis I agree with. I built up a roster of clients
    by doing freelance work on the side when fulltime employed. When I set out on
    my own I already had them in place plus 15 yrs design work and all the contacts
    I'd made thru those years.\r\n\r\nNevertheless I was asked to \"audition\" for
    a design job recently by doing something on spec. I was paid but the experience
    was very frustrating especially since the author (Chuck Close) really wanted to
    work with me and the publisher was being pissy and insisting they choose the designer.
    I didn't get the job and think it was a powerplay by the publisher. But since
    I did get paid I can't say I was ripped off. A small fee for spec work is pretty
    standard in editorial design.\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: inarges
      picture: 109620
    body: "Like I said, this is from my own anecdotal experience. I did not say, nor
      did I mean to imply, that there aren't good self-employed designers out there.\r\n\r\nIt
      sounds like you work in book design, which I'm sure is a bit of a different
      field from advertising and branding, as you point out.\r\n\r\nBut I know a lot
      of people who are good designers, and just don't want to deal with the business
      side of things - for them, it's a lot easier to be an employee somewhere, get
      healthcare, and leave the biz dev and accounting to other. \r\n\r\nIt takes
      a certain amount of entrepreneurial spirit to be self-employed, and just because
      someone's a good designer doesn't mean they have what it takes to manage their
      own business. So I do think that a person who has both creative and business
      ability is more of a rarity than someone who just has one or the other.\r\n\r\nIf
      you have both, I think that makes you special. Take it as a compliment :-)"
    created: '2007-01-27 19:36:25'
  created: '2007-01-27 16:36:44'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'll note that the CL post talked specifically about \"professional illustrators,\"
    which seems to me to be a *much* smaller segment than, say \"people who call themselves
    graphic designers.\"\r\n\r\nStill, it's a <em>great</em> post. I've written to
    the poster asking if they want to be credited for it or would rather remain anonymous....\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-01-27 20:05:03'
date: '2007-01-23 23:35:21'
node_type: forum
title: Let's discuss design for spec

---
