---
author:
  name: AndrewSipe
  picture: 109430
body: "After following the En-Em Dash debates (http://typophile.com/node/30372) I
  have a question of my own. \r\n\r\n<strong>When using the backslash in a sentence,
  what is the acceptable (English) usage?</strong>\r\n\r\nThis is a problem that has
  plagued me for sometime now, but never enough to illicit proper research. Hopefully
  you fine folks can help.\r\n\r\n1. No spacing:\r\nThe work around utilized by eRMS
  operators was to <strong>Reverse/Cancel</strong> Shipping Document\u2026\r\n\r\n2.
  Spacing on both sides of the backslash:\r\nThe work around utilized by eRMS operators
  was to <strong>Reverse / Cancel</strong> Shipping Document\u2026\r\n\r\n3. Spacing
  after the backslash:\r\nThe work around utilized by eRMS operators was to <strong>Reverse/
  Cancel</strong> Shipping Document\u2026\r\n \r\n<em>I apologize for my boring example,
  it's from a document I'm currently working on.</em>"
comments:
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "I was always taught that you don't put any spaces around the slash unless
    it's separating poetry lines or song lyrics, but I don't have any style manuals
    handy at the moment.\r\n\r\nBTW, this: / - is a slash and this: \\ - is a backslash.\r\n\r\n
    - Lex"
  created: '2007-01-24 15:41:13'
- author:
    name: katzenjammer
  body: "To my eyes, at least, number 1 looks best.  Also, I think it may be a forward
    slash your using??  \r\n\r\nlater: woops, Lex beat me to it!"
  created: '2007-01-24 15:43:49'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: "<cite>BTW, this: / - is a slash and this: \\ - is a backslash</cite>\r\n\r\nNot
    often I get to be completely anal twice in a week. But this: / - is a <em>virgule</em>\r\n\r\n;^)\r\n\r\nAs
    a personal rule of thumb, I\u2019d use it without the spaces either side."
  created: '2007-01-24 15:47:47'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Chicago</em> refers to it as the solidus (also known as the slash, slant,
    or virgule) and suggests the same spacing rules apply to it as to the em- and
    en-dash, i.e., no spacing.\r\n\r\nI've been known to bend that one on rare occasions,
    depending on the font -- setting something in italic with a slash might want one
    (thin, actually, in retrospect) space after, but it's not usual.  Spacing on both
    sides cancels out the whole purpose of putting the slash there in the first place,
    because it indicates an alternative choice.  My copy of <em>Chicago</em> has several
    such examples, all set tight.\r\n\r\nAt least here in North America: elsewhere,
    mileage/kilometrage varies....  ;-)\r\n\r\n<em>seconds later: Ah, great minds
    think alike!</em>"
  created: '2007-01-24 15:47:57'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: Ah! Linda. Out of nowhere! ;^)
  created: '2007-01-24 15:50:09'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: <em>Solidus</em> is used for fractions.
  created: '2007-01-24 15:53:10'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: A punctuation mark by any other name would do the job as well.  ;-)
  created: '2007-01-24 15:54:33'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "(Gawd, I love questions like this!)\r\n\r\nInterestingly enough, <em>APA
    </em>(The American Psychological Association) <em>Manual </em>calls it a \"slash,
    also called a virgule, solidus, or shill\" but has some considerable differences
    in use from <em>Chicago</em>.\r\n\r\n<em>APA</em> warns against use in <em>and/or</em>
    constructions (they want a phrase instead), simple comparisons (they want a hyphen),
    or \"more than once to express compound units\" (where they want centered dots
    and parens).\r\n\r\n<em>The New York Public Library of Style</em> has even more
    names for \"slash\" -- virgule, cancel, shilling, diagonal, slant bar, stroke,
    solidus, and (my personal favourite) separatrix.\r\n\r\n<em>Words Into Type</em>
    says that separatrix is used in bibliographical matter to indicate where one line
    ends and another begins (this is also a function in setting poetry continuously).\r\n\r\nAnd
    last, but not least, the second edition of <em>Editing Canadian English</em> lists
    it in the index as \"solidus.\"\r\n\r\nWhew!  ;-)"
  created: '2007-01-24 16:17:46'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "No space\r\nThe workaround utilized by eRMS operators was to Reverse/Cancel
    Shipping Document\u2026\r\n\r\nunless it affects the rag, in which case I leave
    it with the previous word.\r\nThe workaround utilized by \r\neRMS operators was
    to Reverse/\r\nCancel Shipping Document\u2026\r\n\r\nbtw I would use workaround
    as one word.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-24 16:20:06'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: Just had a gander at <em>The Elements of Typographic Style</em>, which refers
    to it simply as a <em>virgule</em>. The <em>solidus</em> is refered to as being
    used in fractions and appears slightly more tilted to the right than the <em>virgule</em>,
    as you would for fractions.
  created: '2007-01-24 16:24:50'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Is there <em>any</em> proper use in English (or any other language) for the
    backslash (\) in a sentence?
  created: '2007-01-24 16:28:34'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: "> <cite>Is there any proper use in English (or any other language) for the
    backslash (\\) in a sentence?</cite>\r\n\r\nTo refer to <em>The Elements of Typographic
    Style</em> once more, it\u2019s useless, with no recognised use in typography.
    Superfluous. Purely a cosmetic addition."
  created: '2007-01-24 16:29:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "MSDOS commands :-P\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-24 16:33:07'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: "> <cite>MSDOS</cite>\r\n\r\nA <em>programming</em> language\u2026 mmm! ;^)"
  created: '2007-01-24 16:39:41'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: The solidus and virgule are totally different characters. The former has a
    steeper angle, and I believe the baseline is also different.
  created: '2007-01-24 16:50:04'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "There\u2019s a clever rule in Finnish. If the slash is between two words,
    no spaces at all. If it\u2019s between two sets of words, then put spaces on both
    sides.\r\n\r\ntypos edited\r\n\r\nExample\r\nand/or\r\n\r\nwhite hat / grey pants"
  children:
  - author:
      name: AndrewSipe
      picture: 109430
    body: "<cite> If the slash is between two words, no spaces at all. If it\u2019s
      between two sets of words, then put spaces on both sides.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
      if it's proper nouns? \r\n\r\nWould it be: North America/South America \r\n\r\nor
      would it be: North America / South America"
    created: '2007-01-25 02:49:32'
  created: '2007-01-24 17:08:43'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Finally, I'm at peace. Thank you all very much.\r\n\r\nNot only has my question
    been answered, but I have been corrected in what type of slash it was <em> (Lex
    and Conor) </em> also, I thought it was called a backslash because it was tilted
    towards the rear.\r\n\r\nThis prompts another query\u2026 maybe we should have
    a Grammarwiki to go with the <a href='wiki/start' class='wiki'>typowiki</a> "
  created: '2007-01-24 17:09:38'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "The COPYEDITING-L list (https://listserv.indiana.edu/cgi-bin/wa-iub.exe?A0=COPYEDITING-L)
    put together a \"definitive\" style guide ten or so years ago, which I assume
    is being kept up.  \r\n\r\nYou need to be a member to download it, and I left
    because it was just too busy.  With permission, it might be a good start to a
    grammarwiki here...."
  created: '2007-01-24 17:26:19'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "It would be a grammarwiki with the typographer in mind. With entries that
    show examples of where the rules could be \"bent\" for to facilitate proper (visually
    aesthetic?) typesetting.\r\n\r\nThere does seem to be a lot of grammar-centric
    questions on Typophile. Where you have type, you have text\u2026"
  created: '2007-01-24 17:41:09'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>It would be a grammarwiki with the typographer in mind. With entries
    that show examples of where the rules could be \u201Cbent\u201D for to facilitate
    proper (visually aesthetic?) typesetting.</em>\r\n\r\nAbsolutely, but using that
    group's accumulated knowledge would at least solve some of the \"well, in this
    country we do A, but in that country, we do B\" arguments straight out: we can
    always fill in all the typographic quirks ourselves.  ;-)"
  created: '2007-01-24 17:48:12'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: "I can\u2019t resist\u2026\r\n\r\n> <cite>There does seem to be a lot of grammar-centric
    questions on Typophile.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere <strong><em>do</em></strong> seem
    to be a lot of grammar-centric questions on Typophile.\r\n\r\nI hope I\u2019m
    right. ;^)"
  created: '2007-01-24 18:02:30'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Is that a Hat-trick for you today? \r\n\r\n<em> There does seem to be a lot
    of grammar-centric questions on Typophile.\r\n\r\nThere do seem to be a lot of
    grammar-centric questions on Typophile.</em>\r\n\r\nThere seems to be a lot of
    grammar-centric questions on Typophile.\r\n\r\nMaybe we're both right?"
  created: '2007-01-24 18:15:36'
- author:
    name: katzenjammer
  body: "If you substitute \"lot of grammar-centric questions\" for something singular:
    \ say, O I don't know, \"silliness\"? - then you would have to use \"does,\" which
    implies that \"do\" is correct? \r\n\r\nI'm always wrong with these things, but
    ummm, maybe?   :-)  "
  created: '2007-01-24 18:26:36'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "There <em>does</em> seem to be <em>a lot</em> of grammar-centric questions
    on Typophile.\r\nThere <em>do</em> seem to be <em>lots</em> of grammar-centric
    questions on Typophile.\r\n\r\n???\r\n\r\nIs one of those wrong? Are they both
    wrong?"
  created: '2007-01-24 19:02:15'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Well, it's true that some Typophiles ask many questions relating to grammar.\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2007-01-24 19:02:17'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I think understanding grammar is integral to being a good type-setter.
  created: '2007-01-24 19:48:25'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>I think understanding grammar is integral to being a good type-setter.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm
    screwed."
  created: '2007-01-24 19:51:38'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I should add that while I think it is intergral I struggle just as much as
    the next typographer. ;^) \r\n"
  created: '2007-01-24 19:53:12'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "Andrew, I don't know if you have any editorial say in this, but Bryan Garner--a
    very condensed version of whose <em>Modern American Usage</em> appears in <em>CMS</em>
    15/e--would say that if you really mean \"or,\" write \"or,\" or pick one or the
    other: \"reverse\" or \"cancel.\" Hence, your virgule/separatrix/etc. problem
    goes away.\r\n\r\nGarner would probably also say that the verb for \"to draw out\"
    or \"provoke\" is <em>elicit</em>, but I recognize the gratuity of my pointing
    that out.\r\n\r\nAlso--to make my post even more gratuitous--when people mean
    \"use,\" why can't they <em>write</em> \"use,\" and not \"utilize,\" a three-syllable
    word than means nothing more or less than \"use\"?"
  created: '2007-01-24 20:16:51'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>There does seem to be a lot of grammar-centric questions on Typophile.\r\nThere
    do seem to be lots of grammar-centric questions on Typophile.\r\n???\r\nIs one
    of those wrong? Are they both wrong?</em>\r\n\r\n(putting on my editor hat)\r\n\r\nThe
    former is my pick of the two.\r\n\r\nThat being said, it is awkward to see it
    written, and is phrased more as a rhetorical question (I keep expecting to see
    \"doesn't there?\" at the end). IMHO, it should be rewritten as \r\n\r\n\"There
    are many grammar-centric questions on Typophile.\"\r\n\r\nOTOH, I don't have a
    problem in people writing here as they talk, and certainly the rhetorical question
    format is much more conversational and colloquial.\r\n\r\nAnd thus endeth the
    grammar lesson for today....  ;-)\r\n\r\n(taking off my editor hat)\r\n\r\nThere
    are days when it's useful to have one foot in the typography/design camp and the
    other in the anal-retentive editor camp, I guess."
  created: '2007-01-24 20:17:45'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: Does grammar-centric mean grammatical?
  created: '2007-01-24 20:29:31'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Lari, I think I'd define grammar-centric more as \"centred around grammar\":
    grammatical means \"conforming to the rules of grammar.\"\r\n\r\nI'd like to think
    we're doing the former while discussing the latter.  ;-)"
  created: '2007-01-24 20:37:27'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<em>\u2026the more I read, the less confident I feel about what I've written\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nI'm
    elated that I've sparked such an interest in \"proper\" grammar; please stop dissecting
    my sentences. It's starting to give me a complex. "
  created: '2007-01-24 20:42:18'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: 'Andrew: sorry. I can see about three things I''d change in my last post,
    anyway, if that''s any consolation. Self-consciousness is good, so long as it
    doesn''t paralyze you.'
  created: '2007-01-24 20:59:34'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>I\u2019m elated that I\u2019ve sparked such an interest in \u201Cproper\u201D
    grammar; please stop dissecting me sentences. It\u2019s starting to give me a
    complex.</em>\r\n\r\nJust so long as it's not one like Oedipus....  ;-)\r\n\r\nThe
    practices of \"grammar\" and \"typography\" have almost too many similarities:
    I've always thought of them as being opposite sides of the same street, to skew
    Tiff's analogy a bit.\r\n\r\n(Probably the two most important is that they both
    require an eagle-eye for detail, and it's essential to know the rules so you can
    break them when a situation calls for it.)\r\n\r\nIn the thirty-plus years I've
    spent working with both, I've often been asked which one I prefer, and the answer's
    always been \"I can't pick just one.\"  I consider myself very lucky that I've
    always been able to make a (relatively) good living by doing them at the same
    time. \r\n\r\n(And for my next philosophical discourse, we'll look at the jokes
    of Ludwig Wittgenstein....)  ;-)"
  created: '2007-01-24 21:15:59'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "<cite>There does seem to be a lot of grammar-centric questions on Typophile.\r\nThere
    do seem to be a lot of grammar-centric questions on Typophile.</cite>\r\n\r\nSpeaking
    as an editor, each of those sentences could be correct for a particular meaning:
    if the \"lot\" were an actual thing, like in the sense of \"the items on sale
    in the auction were grouped into twenty lots\", the singular verb would be correct,
    but if \"a lot of\" were used as a synonym for \"many\" without any implication
    of the existence of actual lots, then the plural verb would be preferable. I think
    the latter is what is meant here."
  created: '2007-01-24 23:37:58'
- author:
    name: CameronM
    picture: 111113
  body: "I agree with Grot Esqu\xE9 on this one, and I suppose it is similar to my
    views on the en-dash as well. No spaces if you are contrasting two words (yes/no)
    but spaces if you are contrasting phrases (not today / no comment). \r\n\r\nWhere
    I tend to use it most is for event listings:\r\nMon/Tue/Thu \r\nor \r\n4 February
    / 5 March\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd if a grammarwiki was started it would be my number 1
    bookmark.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-25 02:38:29'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "So, if the backslash is on all our keyboards, is there something useful we
    might do with it? The backslash is slowly losing it's role in file management,
    and it would be a shame for it to just atrophy. The \"|\" has some decorative
    use, I've started on getting the ascii tilde some play, but I'm totally open to
    getting to 'own' another key on my 'board!\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz</a>"
  created: '2007-01-25 06:51:58'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Late to the party... I just have to comment on\r\n\r\n<em>(my personal favourite)
    separatrix</em>\r\n\r\nThat is awesome, Linda. I have a new favorite word! It
    sounds like a grammar disciplinarian, i.e., \"You <strong>will</strong> stay apart!\"\r\n\r\n;-D"
  created: '2007-01-25 07:35:47'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "I\u2019m going to North America/South America.\r\n<em>I\u2019m going to North
    America America. / I\u2019m going to North South America.</em>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    going to North America / South America.\r\n<em>I\u2019m going to North America.
    / I\u2019m going to South America.</em>"
  created: '2007-01-25 09:28:23'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>I\u2019m going to North America / South America.\r\nI\u2019m going
    to North America. / I\u2019m going to South America.</cite>\r\n\r\nLari, thank
    you for clearing that up. \r\n\r\nChoz: That's an interesting question."
  created: '2007-01-25 13:52:14'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: I like that Finnish rule. Wish it could become usage in English. It adds clarity,
    as Grot shows in his last post. Clarity is a good thing in grammar (and in typography).
  created: '2007-01-25 14:53:16'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>separatrix\r\n\r\nThat is awesome, Linda. I have a new favorite word!
    It sounds like a grammar disciplinarian, i.e., \u201CYou will stay apart!\u201D\r\n\r\n;-D</em>\r\n\r\nRicardo,
    any editor worth their salt carries a range of whips, uh, red pencils, with them
    for just such a purpose.  ;-)\r\n\r\nLari, in a situation like that, and assuming
    I was visiting both, I'd write <em>I'm going to North America and South America.</em>
    \ Sometimes, using a conjunction is a better solution to using a punctuation mark....
    \ ;-)"
  created: '2007-01-25 15:14:06'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Yes, I personally always write \u201Cor\u201D. (Can \u201C/\u201D ever mean
    \u201Cand\u201D?)"
  created: '2007-01-25 16:15:32'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: The general consensus (at least in the style guides I have) is that something
    like <em>apples/oranges</em> means <em>apples and/or oranges</em> anyway.
  created: '2007-01-25 16:19:32'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Yeah, that\u2019s what I thought. \u201CAnd/or\u201D or \u201Cor\u201D."
  created: '2007-01-25 16:38:06'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "To me, \"or\" means the same thing as \"and/or\", but maybe that's because
    I've done so much computer programming and logic stuff.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2007-01-27 20:53:01'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "In the absense of \"either\", \"or\" can be taken to imply the inclusive
    sense, but \"and/or\" makes that intent less ambiguous. The exclusive \"or\",
    however your preferred programming language puts it, is analogous to a phrase
    like \"either <em>x</em> or <em>y</em>\".\r\n\r\nI think I know what I'm talking
    about, but I'm not sure..."
  created: '2007-01-27 21:10:03'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Lex, didn\u2019t your logic teacher tell you about the real world?\r\n\r\n100
    US $ is 77 \u20AC or 118 CAD. Either 77 \u20AC or 118 CAD, not 77 \u20AC, 118
    CAD or 77 \u20AC + 118 CAD.\r\n\r\nMine had this lousy joke about dessert being
    coffee or ice cream. He had many lousy jokes."
  created: '2007-01-27 22:18:11'
date: '2007-01-24 15:33:35'
title: Backslash in Sentence

---
