---
author:
  name: Choz Cunningham
  picture: 111714
body: On another thread, I was thinking there should be an egalitarian user-moderated
  free (and not free?) font review site. Any suggestions for a name? There is no prize
  whatsoever, aside from possible credit on a well-buried about page. Nothing vulgar,
  please! :)
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Typophile Critique Forum\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-25 22:20:31'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "That's a very dry pun.\r\n\r\nWhat I am pondering is like a fusion of 1001freefonts
    and typophile crit forum. Basically, one could see if a font has only a half a
    character set, or bizarro kerning at the same place they download it.\r\n\r\nTypophile
    crit forum does not have any sort of index where one can flip through fonts, or
    a digest form of the crits at the top of the page, etc."
  created: '2007-01-25 22:26:03'
- author:
    name: Da Kine
    picture: 111014
  body: "berateafont.com\r\n\r\nDB~"
  created: '2007-01-26 03:45:38'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: NothingVulgar.com
  created: '2007-01-26 04:08:15'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Off the top of my head, the rating factors might be, (stylistic) consistency,
    language support, kerning and tracking, buglessness, freeness, and similar things.
    Mostly technical, only a little bit of \"style\", since an image would get that
    across better.\r\n\r\nJust in case anyone thought I was putting out the call only
    due to a shortage of bad ideas of my own, here's a list, not checked for use,
    copyright, domain availability, etc.\r\n\r\nfontrate.com\r\nfonttalk.something\r\ntypefaceoff.whatever\r\nfontfolio.\r\nallstarfontrevue.\r\nfontwards.\r\ndepartmentofletters.\r\nfontallabotomy.\r\nfontnight.\r\nfontisserie.\r\n\r\nfontalcountdown.
    (with theme music)\r\n\r\nor on a <em>slightly</em> more serious note,\r\nthefontshow.\r\ntypefacings.\r\nfontdex.\r\n\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine
    Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2007-01-26 04:34:48'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "1001freecrits.com\r\n\r\nthe crippleware font with the least diacritical
    characters wins!"
  created: '2007-01-26 04:56:29'
- author:
    name: circehouse
    picture: 112151
  body: "dysfunctionalfontfamily.\r\ntripeface.\r\nfontforesight. (so many puns! font.for.sight,
    font fore site. font foresight.  )\r\nfaceforward.\r\n\r\nbecause i'm a rule-breaker
    at heart, vulgar names:\r\ncraperature.\r\nstemsandtails.\r\n\r\nall are available
    in the .com versions.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-26 05:02:08'
- body: fontfusion.com ?
  created: '2007-01-26 05:02:58'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "farkinfonts.com\r\nshitype.com\r\ntypefarce.coma\r\nletterpissed.com\r\ntypoholic.org\r\n\r\netc"
  created: '2007-01-26 07:19:41'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: What purpose is this proposed site meant to serve exactly? Who would it serve?
    Why?
  created: '2007-01-26 07:26:58'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">fontalcountdown. (with theme music)\r\n\r\nThis one, please."
  created: '2007-01-26 08:08:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Little Horde Fontaljoy\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-26 13:47:35'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: These last two are sweet.
  created: '2007-01-26 16:05:48'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "letterboiler.com ?\r\nsofakinggoodfonts.com ?\r\ntypespring.org ?\r\n\r\nI
    thought of \"ministryofpunctuation\" but that would be better for a grammar site.\r\n\r\nNaming
    is fun, and all, but wouldn't it be worth discussing the mechanics of the thing?
    How are fonts to be selected for evaluation? Who would be eligible to vote? Would
    everyone's vote count equally, or would specially qualified experts hold greater
    sway?"
  created: '2007-01-26 21:45:15'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>fontalcountdown. (with theme music)\r\n\r\nThis one, please.</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    will at least have to be a selectable skin!\r\n\r\n<em>What purpose is this proposed
    site meant to serve exactly? Who would it serve? Why?</em>\r\n\r\nTo separate
    the wheat from the chaff in the world of fonts. This would benefit users by letting
    them find well made ones (and understand why they are well made). It would benefit
    Type design novices, hobbyists, students and others seeking feedback on the composition.
    It would benefit Professional designers by exposing the greatness of fonts worthy
    of it, and (hopefully) decreasing consumer demand for bad fonts. Optimally it
    would benefit type culture in general, by offering a consensus opinion of what
    people like/want/respect. Why? Because it is a resource I would love to draw on,
    and others might as well. Most font sites are shopping centers that say everything
    is wonderful about every font, or they are just free font archives.\r\n\r\nIf
    it was a rounded enough user base, and rankings were fair and the process transparent,
    the ratings could be very worthwhile.  I would love to be able to market a font
    as a \"5 Star\" or such, myself.\r\n\r\n<em>Naming is fun, and all, but wouldn\u2019t
    it be worth discussing the mechanics of the thing?</em>\r\n\r\nActually, I just
    figured that people here would be more into naming ideas than into the mechanics.
    From some previous work in two other fields, I've got a storm of interesting ideas
    for implementing a user-friendly reputation economy to \"power\" the voting/rating
    process. And I do not have enough to submit a design document on it yet. Seeing
    if people are even slightly interested lets me consider if this is worthwhile.
    My programming skills are not enough to code this by hand alone today, and that
    may limit the core features. Of course, there are lots of interesting FOSS modular
    web tools out there too...\r\n\r\n<em>How are fonts to be selected for evaluation?
    Who would be eligible to vote? Would everyone\u2019s vote count equally, or would
    specially qualified experts hold greater sway?</em>\r\n\r\nI think that the method
    for submission should be limited to \"controlling\" parties, as determined by
    license. A designer or vendor could submit any of their own work, for sure. A
    public domain piece could be submitted by any registered user. Those \"in-between\"
    would have to be puzzled out. Currently undetermined: the time/scale for adding
    fonts for review. Probably couldn't be determined until \r\n\r\nAll methodology
    would be listed on the site. Full disclosure allows everyone equal chance to understand,
    and contribute to stopping exploits.\r\n\r\nVote weighting? That's a very tricky
    issue,and some people get quite riled, \"experts count double???!?!OMG WTF\" I
    would rather have a system that weights the votes towards those who contribute
    short reviews explaining their numeric decisions, and those who don't vote arbitrarily,
    as determined by their frequency of falling outside a pre-announced truncated
    mean. All weighting methods would have limits, so that no avenue(s) gives infinite
    vote-power, will still crediting those most competent.\r\n\r\nAnother idea is
    allowing one to specialize their vote. Are you a master of notanic balance, but
    have no interest or experience with uncial forms? Then you could tailor your own
    vote power to be greater in one category than the other.... No idea how to code
    this in to a site, but I've had great results and user satisfaction with this
    in RL situations."
  created: '2007-01-27 03:05:04'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: '26'
  created: '2007-01-27 03:19:52'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Very cool. Very taken.\r\n\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.chozcunningham.com\">Choz
    Cunningham</a>\r\n<A HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com\">!Exclamachine Type Foundry</a>\r\n<A
    HREF=\"http://www.exclamachine.com/snark\">The Snark</a>"
  created: '2007-01-27 03:42:13'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Typohiliac
  created: '2007-01-27 04:33:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Letter Sweater\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-27 04:34:22'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: polytype
  created: '2007-01-27 05:07:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "So it would be discusion board in some sense like this one but it would have
    a Netflix style  rating system with all the topics: this fonts or that. Hmmmmm
    I kinda like the idea. I am not sure though. \r\n\r\nThis is very ivory tower
    of me I know, but for me it is almost always a typo-rati's opinions that I find
    count in the end. So for my part I suggest that you have a two tier rating system
    with a popular opinion eg 'the great unwashed rabble' if you will. Ok just kidding.
    You could just call it popular opinion. Good enough. \r\n\r\nBut then I think
    it would be good if you also had folks who were authoritative or quasi-authoritative
    who would go ahead & rate things for you. Then you could have Comic Sans and get
    two very different ratings. Maybe. But the point is you could read the comments
    in either track. Frankly I think both kinds of opinions are useful. Very useful
    in fact. But they are much more useful when they are divided than mixed.  \r\n\r\nIn
    fact the more separations you could make the more useful the data. The data could
    be agrigate so nobody is made to answer for loving or not loving Helvetica. But
    you could know for instance that type designers perhaps love it less than graphic
    designers or whatever. See where I am going with this? If you can offer the type
    community good meaningful data that would be really worthwhile."
  created: '2007-01-27 07:57:43'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: The great <cite>washed</cite> rabble would of course be registered Typophile
    users? That would be quite interesting indeed....
  created: '2007-01-27 08:08:31'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> The great washed rabble would of course be registered Typophile users?
    </cite>\r\n\r\nSelf evidently not. ;-)"
  created: '2007-01-27 08:15:29'
- author:
    name: circehouse
    picture: 112151
  body: 'the tools are there in the wiki platform: why not use that?'
  created: '2007-01-27 14:13:40'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>But you could know for instance that type designers perhaps love it less
    than graphic designers or whatever</em>\r\n\r\nThe great washed rabble filtering
    system could work. It would require something like a user selecting from a limited
    set of choices for occupation or interests, but I would certainly put higher granularity
    in the software and graphic design sectors. Then, one could filter by that, and
    get a different set of numbers. I would really love to see which faces are  \"type
    designer's choice\" versus a \"management's choice\". Likewise, very useful information
    could come from knowing the popularity in 18-28 year olds, among students, or
    from Swedes, or any of a wide number of factors.\r\n\r\n<em>The data could be
    agrigate so nobody is made to answer for loving or not loving Helvetica.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    would like it to expose a user's choices as much as they want. And the more they
    choose to be open, the more they \"weigh\" in. To a point. To reduce people filling
    in garbage profiles, I am considering ways of unlocking voting power, or otherwise
    maturing an account, so that having a detailed identity is more useful to anybody.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-27 14:24:26'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: fontornot.com
  created: '2007-01-27 14:54:57'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "fontthis\r\n\r\n________\r\nHiro\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-27 17:40:33'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Those who submit designs for review should at least be given a higher voting
    rank than those who do not. Seems one should not be called a type designer without
    that minimal proof, at least in the context of this thingy.\r\n\r\nBut at the
    same time, one should not be allowed to vote on their own submissions. A rule
    like that raises the hazard that some might make dummy accounts to pad their votes,
    so some measure would have to be taken to limit that."
  created: '2007-01-27 17:48:19'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "familyvalues.com\r\n.........................................................\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bisondesign.no\">Bison Design</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myspace.com/sponnorway\">Sp\xF6n</a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-27 18:28:29'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>But at the same time, one should not be allowed to vote on their own
    submissions. </em>\r\n\r\nSome people will create dummy accounts to pad things,
    no matter what. Making a fresh account less \"worthy\" helps eliminate that. A
    type designer shouldnt vote their own work, but that gets complicated on multiperson
    project, vendor submission, etc. Better to create a culture where that is just
    not okay, and let the users \"shoot down\" that sort of stuff via 'question this
    vote' type technology. And perhaps give a designer a special status that is outside
    the voting, but with another power to compensate, like featured status on that
    page or such."
  created: '2007-01-27 18:45:51'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: But if every type designer voted for his own submission, in the end things
    would even out, wouldn't they?
  created: '2007-01-27 20:36:44'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "As the site would be democratic I think it would be cool to play with a (pseudo?)
    officious identity...\r\n\r\nDepartment of Type / Dept of Type\r\n(The) Type Department
    / Type Dept.\r\n(The) Font Department / Font Dept.\r\n(The) Type Bureau\r\nBureau
    of Type\r\nOffice of Fair Type\r\nEncyclotypedia\r\nTypedia\r\nDemotype / Demofont\r\nFontastic
    (written in a French accent)\r\nQuest For The Holy Font\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-28 02:02:42'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: AboutFace?
  created: '2007-01-28 02:10:24'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "<a href=\"http://openfontlibrary.org/\">openfontlibrary.org</a>\r\n\r\nThe
    <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/29240\">Hrant-coined</a> \"despotype\" may
    also be appropriate, but I was kinda thinking of that as the nexus for releasing
    my Christian Gothic and Zeno revivals.\r\n\r\nThere is already a fontornot at
    ning.com, but other than that, it seems like it communicates the idea clearly.\r\n\r\nhonestfonts.com
    is available. You could always use 2002 as a third-level domain.\r\n\r\ntypogogue?\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-28 02:16:58'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>familyvalues.</em>\r\nThat is slick, subtle, hip and clever, in its play
    of the vote=value idea. I haven't even checked to see if it is available, since
    it is not that obscure. Definitely a right idea.\r\n\r\n<em>But if every type
    designer voted for his own submission, in the end things would even out, wouldn\u2019t
    they?</em>\r\n\r\nYes. But i don't want it as simple as a  +/- vote. I would like
    to see consensus reviews. If there are enough designers and users, it wont matter.
    But I'd also rather have a designer not vote, than stress on judging themselves
    \"fairly\".\r\n\r\n<em>openfontlibrary.org</em>\r\n\r\nI really like that tag
    cloud, better than most. Its value, as planned, as a PD font archive will become
    a nice resource someday. Not sure if anyone is doing quite what I am talking about
    yet, but something as similar to rottentomatoes.com as to abstractfonts.com\r\n\r\n<em>\u201Cdespotype\u201D</em>
    is indeed awesome. Not quite a open, democratic font review webmagazine sounding
    name, but god is he right someone has to do something with it. Perhaps it should
    be the name of the DRM \"emhanced\" OpenType replacement spec.\r\n\r\n<em>(pseudo?)
    officious identity\u2026</em>\r\nMinistry of Type?\r\nor \"Minityp\" for short:
    Serif Is Sans.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-28 05:06:13'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: What about fontrank?
  created: '2007-01-28 15:16:58'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "<cite>or \u201CMinityp\u201D for short: Serif Is Sans.</cite>\r\nthere's
    a lot of potential slogans:\r\n- em-dash is en-dash\r\n- screen is print\r\n-
    truetype is opentype\r\n- 1001freefonts.com is love\r\n- Extended is condensed\r\n-
    Light is heavy\r\n\r\nand so on and so on. \r\n.........................................................\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bisondesign.no\">Bison Design</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myspace.com/sponnorway\">Sp\xF6n</a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-28 16:35:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Simon Sez\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-28 17:02:48'
- author:
    name: Da Kine
    picture: 111014
  body: "fullfontalnudity\r\nDB~"
  created: '2007-01-29 03:14:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Now we are getting down to the bare essentials Dennis :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-29 03:48:56'
- author:
    name: circehouse
    picture: 112151
  body: aboutface is the best submission so far.
  created: '2007-01-29 03:51:13'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: dropitlikeitsfont
  created: '2007-01-29 10:04:35'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Baseline (Does the overall standard of a font come above or below the 'baseline'
    of acceptability.)\r\nTyperack\r\nFontrack (after raph's fontrank suggestion)\r\nFontarama
    / Typerama\r\n\r\nI still don't think there have been enough bad puns suggested.
    How about some based on place names...\r\nFontario\r\nFonterey / Fontarray\r\nSanzibar\r\nFontainebleau\r\nFontezuma
    (Also the great ancient god of fonts. Present them before him and either be sacrificed
    or spared.)\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-29 15:29:19'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "There are too many to review each above individually, and some are used already.
    I think that they can all approximately be grouped into 4 (overlapping) categories,
    or close. There are 'news' style, 'type' industry terms, 'puns' that are lighthearted
    and lend to a certain visual style, and there are ones that express the 'polling'
    nature.\r\n\r\nThe entries show the fontgeist well. I see no harm in people offering
    more suggestions, but I also think we have enough here to work with. Which category
    would people prefer? I think we should go for something that looks good when referenced
    elsewhere, sounds inviting, and not too unclear to the layperson.\r\n\r\nAboutface
    is rockin', but taken. And to non-experts, it isn't super clear, thought it would
    probably be fine in context, and made up for by its cleverness.\r\n\r\nBTW, if
    anyone noticed, I'm having some very major issues with my server move (for exactly
    the reasons I am moving) so things are a bit held up while I sort things, and
    rebuild some sites. :( My email is down too."
  created: '2007-01-29 16:43:32'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: Thanks for all the support for "AboutFace." You're right; it's just about
    completely taken, but AboutFaces.com is parked, with the owner apparently willing
    to sell it. Having never created a website myself, I can't say whether this disqualifies
    the domain or not.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: Well, the going price for a virgin name is about $10. The after market name
      for anything made of common English words is still quite often 50-200+ times
      that. Although it would be lovely to have big sponsors bankroll this with marketing,
      a crack coding team and pro journalists, I think that is unlikely in a fragmented
      industry moving towards cottage culture. !Exclamachine will bankroll the hosting,
      but I must be modest until this spreads it's own wings.
    created: '2007-01-29 21:24:05'
  created: '2007-01-29 19:21:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "FaceUp2it\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-29 19:50:32'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: "dontlettersdown\r\nSorry, couldn't resist."
  created: '2007-01-29 19:57:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Letterip\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-29 20:47:30'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: "Somebody named \"artofcode LLC\" in Berkeley, California, registered despotype.com
    on December 23, 2006.\r\n\r\n(Later edit: they seem to be the people responsible
    for, or who own the copyright to, Ghostscript.)"
  created: '2007-01-29 22:53:00'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Sounds like Raph, doesn't it?
  created: '2007-01-29 23:03:35'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Domain squatting is despicable.\r\n\r\nI'm not saying that's what has happened
    with despotype.com. Just venting spleen about something that really hacks me off.
    <strong>Grrrrrraaagghhh</strong> :-@\r\n\r\nAaahhhh, that's better.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-29 23:32:07'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Raph doesn't strike me as the type who would squat.\r\n\r\nAlthough I'm totally
    guilty. I've had my URL for a year now and haven't done a thing. :^( I am ashamed."
  created: '2007-01-29 23:51:50'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: "> Sounds like Raph, doesn't it?\r\n\r\nAccident, coincidence, or enemy action?\r\n\r\nRinging
    the changes on \"aboutface,\" circumface.com and circaface.com are available.
    Farther afield, so are genufont.com, ratefonts.com, fontval.com, fonteval.com,
    fontscale.com, phizface.com, vizface.com, vizfont.com, fontprops.com, trufont.com,
    somefont.com, whichfont.com, readyfont.com, rightfont.com, therightfont.com, fonttime.com,
    pyface.com, and (last but not least) fontways.com.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-29 23:55:58'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "fontgroove\r\n\r\n________\r\nHiro"
  created: '2007-01-30 00:00:04'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Well, Hrant said <em>someone</em> should start a foundry with that name.
    It looks like Raph is doing about that. I wouldn't call a small on-topic filler
    page only a month later much of a squat. Besides, I'll cut anyone slack who released
    ghostscript under GPL.\r\n\r\nBuying missplelt domain names, and phishing with
    them, that is despicable. <a href=\"http://www.despotype.com\">That</a> is just
    interesting.\r\n\r\nIf they looked good enough, that's even the first foundry-brand
    I'd be interested in wearing a shirt from, aside from my own. Make mine black(letter)
    on black, please."
  created: '2007-01-30 00:03:39'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "No, despotype.com is clearly not a case of domain squatting. He's actually
    using it and not trying to just flog it at an exceptionally inflated price, like
    some unethical profiteering facist cockroach grrrrrraaagghhh!\r\n\r\nOh dear,
    there I go again.\r\n\r\n******************************************************************************\r\n\r\nSo,
    Choz, what do you want to do next? Take a vote on a shortlist of available/affordable
    names?\r\n\r\nCouldn't you find someone like <a href=\"http://www.veer.com/\">Veer</a>
    to bankroll the startup costs in return for a permanent banner add or something?\r\n\r\nThese
    days I would think marketing would handle itself for such a potentially useful
    and popular website. Everyone at Typophile would visit and word soon spreads."
  created: '2007-01-30 00:40:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Why can't it just be part of Typophile instead of starting a new site? I
    thought that was what this was about. I didn't ealize it was a new venture.  There
    isn't much trafichere on the Critique site anyway. Why compete with it?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-30 01:55:26'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "*After a night of \"discussing\" several fine dark beers and \"debating\"
    personal political responsibility in a post-postmodern existence with friends...\r\n\r\n<em>So,
    Choz, what do you want to do next? Take a vote on a shortlist of available/affordable
    names?</em>\r\n\r\nYes. Once we have a consensus on which direction to focus the
    shortlist in. But I was hoping to stall long enough to get my other web affairs
    in more order first. According to ICANN this could take 7 days, but should be
    less.\r\n\r\nTo tide you over, I have another, much drier, type related project
    coming soon (as in several days away). More on that later, or track my threads.
    ;) All part of !Exclamachine's \"Make the world a letter place\" campaign...\r\n\r\n<em>Couldn\u2019t
    you find someone like Veer to bankroll the startup costs...[?]</em>\r\n\r\nPossibly.
    I hadn't even considered it. If I were on the outside, considering  investing,
    I would like to see that what I am investing in will get it right and make something
    worthy, beforehand. Veer may be more risk-oriented than me, but I doubt it. Nevertheless,
    still a good idea. I am (for today) more worried about getting a good thing going
    (community) than who will sponsor it. Despite my interest in my own foundry, I
    am <em>very</em> interested in type culture.\r\n\r\nI'd rather settle for the
    second best name choice and make it into the number one choice before I pay anyone's
    money on the scale of aftermarket domains. However, should I(we?) decide to invite
    sponsors later, that can be done easily with the power of allowing sponsors in
    on an opportunity they'd be silly to pass.\r\n\r\n<em>Why can\u2019t it just be
    part of Typophile instead of starting a new site...</em>\r\n\r\nIt could, but
    the technical parts of running different engines (the existing forums vs. the
    proposed relational index) could be <em>very</em> tricky. Also, I would like to
    embrace a broader opinion than would be found here.\r\n\r\nI also assume Punchcut
    would also have to approve it, and, while they well might, they might not, too.
    I am grateful enough to them for allowing us this great chat arena, and don't
    want to ask any more of them. Additionally, I don't see the proposed site as a
    competitor, as the crit forums here are an excellent place for feedback on the
    development phase, whereas I am proposing something targeted at documenting completed
    and released fonts."
  created: '2007-01-30 05:42:44'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I suspect that some foundries are dying for a neutral journalistic place
    to get exposure for their fonts, but I am well aware that that is intimidating
    to some, as well. I am apprehensive to see what happens when I release one next
    month, despite it being everything I could want in a face.\r\n\r\nNevertheless,
    if there are some of you wondering how to get in on some-font-review-site.com
    @ the ground floor, have your people talk to my, uh, person. ;)"
  created: '2007-01-30 05:49:20'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "FaceValue\r\n.........................................................\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bisondesign.no\">Bison Design</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myspace.com/sponnorway\">Sp\xF6n</a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-30 09:50:19'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Something that may help focus the shortlist of names is how the name will
    be seen and used beyond the website itself.\r\n\r\nThe site's font ranking scores
    would probably spread into the wider design community in the way Choz has already
    suggested.\r\n\r\nTHE TYPE SITE\r\n| * | * | * | * | * |\r\nFIVE STAR FONT\r\n\r\nFoundries
    and type resellers could put the sites award logo/link next to a font that had
    a 5 star rating. The ranking award could get seen all over the web and beyond.
    That would in turn promote the site, raise it's status and make it possible to
    generate revenue through adverts and links to type resellers. Hopefully.\r\n\r\nEven
    with that in mind I'm still  not sure if a self explanatory type related name
    would be more suitable, or if a truly original and fun word/pun would attract
    more attention and be more distinctive and memorable in the long term, like say
    Google or Yahoo.\r\n\r\nObviously the site's independent, impartial and democratic
    status will be crucial in making its ranking awards worthy and authorative. That
    may affect who is chosen to sponsor the site or advertise on it.\r\n\r\nIt's a
    bit of a shame the site couldn't be an extension of Typophile, as there seems
    to be lots of respect for the impartial and expert advice, opinions and members
    here. I imagine there would still be a lot of two way traffic though."
  created: '2007-01-30 14:08:43'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Maybe those responsible for Typophile (I'm ashamed to say I don't know who
    you are) would be intereseted in a close associtation with Choz's website. It
    could be mutually beneficial. They could work as separate domains and sites but
    have lots of linkage and shared info.\r\n\r\nThinking about that gave me what
    might be a good idea. I know it's very presumptuous, and I don't mean to upset
    the Typophile team, but I couldn't resist doing this...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TypographLogo_5698.gif]\r\n\r\nAs
    you can see it's an idea for the ranking award for a five star font that could
    be used beyond the site and work as a link back to the site.\r\n\r\nI'm not saying
    the name is brilliant, but for the Typophile connection to work it may be good
    if the name was Typo-something.\r\n\r\nI do quite like the name Typograph though.
    As well as the obvious meaning of graph there is graph as in measuring the standard
    of a font and graph as in telegraph for telling people about it.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-30 15:52:38'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I thought the triple meaning was worth it, so I went to check on that name
    post haste.:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dotcomagency.com/sitepages/search.asp\r\n\r\nDomain
    Name\tCategory\tMin Offer\t \t \r\n Typograph.com\tMiscellaneous\t$7,500 \t More
    Info \t Make Offer \r\n\r\nmakes me feel like 1998 all over again."
  created: '2007-01-30 21:59:44'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "That's kind of OK as the site would not strictly be commercial anyway.\r\n\r\nTypograph.org
    would be good, but is also not availble.\r\n\r\nTypograph.info is available. Maybe
    not ideal but at least it's appropriate."
  created: '2007-01-30 23:18:09'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "fontscale: also has that multiple meaning going for it. That and typescale
    are both available, but I'm not sure I care for how they sound out loud. Try it.\r\n\r\nFontgroove:
    I like it. No idea why, but I do.\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\nAlso thought of a few more,
    despite myself. One of these I adore enough to almost get right now, but will
    wait for the crowd reaction.\r\n\r\n\r\ntypecongress, fontelligence, communitype,
    fontfascia, foundria\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-30 23:41:29'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Typosium\r\n\r\nWikipedia: \"Symposium originally referred to a drinking
    party (the Greek verb sympotein means \"to drink alot\") but has since come to
    refer to any academic conference, whether or not drinking takes place. The sympotic
    elegies of Theognis of Megara, two Socratic dialogues, Plato's Symposium and Xenophon's
    Symposium all describe symposia in the original sense.\""
  created: '2007-01-30 23:49:12'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "everyone feel free to mention your faves of other's suggestions, too.\r\n\r\nTyposium,
    fictional but immediately pronounceable. Catches 2 major components of the site.
    And the reference to drinking is like bonus points."
  created: '2007-01-31 01:14:08'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Typepunch\r\n\r\nFontpunch\r\n\r\nLetterpunch\r\n\r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro"
  created: '2007-01-31 05:44:23'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: "It sure seems to be a long way to Typearary....\r\n\r\nComicsans.com is taken
    (good grief), but noarial.com and nohelvetica.com are available. ;-)\r\n\r\nI
    like fontgroove (it's available, and Roget's lists groove as a synonym for type),
    and I think that something with \"font\" in it would be more meaningful to a general
    audience (if that's what's wanted) than something with \"type.\" Seems to me that
    the great unwashed rabble -- to borrow a phrase used earlier -- think in terms
    of fonts, not type. So font-something if the target is the lay audience, type-something
    for the typophile community. In which case, typosium is pretty good and is available.
    Hmm, what about typarilla (from camarilla)? Sounds like an 800 pound something.\r\n\r\nSince
    I started the thread that inspired Hrant's despotype, I feel kind of bad about
    the name being unavailable. So if the community seems close to a consensus, I
    volunteer to register the name or names and hold them in trust until a formal
    body exists to reassign the name(s) to. But it should happen soon, because a lot
    of good names have already been suggested that someone could snap up."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "<em>that something with \u201Cfont\u201D in it would be more meaningful
      to a general audience</em>\r\n\r\nThough the term had a different meaning in
      the past, due to the way type faces are split into font files today, I think
      \"font\" is not such a sloppy or innacurate term as some. Even amongst the specialized
      audience, I think that *-font-*  is better at describing the subject matter
      of digital scalable typeface products, whereas *-type-* suggest typography and
      letter arts in general. Since I want to have this be about software, then *-font-*
      is the way to go. (edit, unless its awesome great exception)\r\n\r\n<em>Since
      I started the thread that inspired Hrant\u2019s despotype, I feel kind of bad
      about the name being unavailable.</em>\r\n\r\nI suspect that Raph *might* even
      be happy to offer the domain to a group that wanted to use it for this, but
      I predict his current intentions are actually more along the lines Hrant was
      shooting for.\r\n\r\n<em>So if the community seems close to a consensus, I volunteer
      to register the name or names and hold them in trust until a formal body exists
      to reassign the name(s) to.</em>\r\n\r\nAs the de facto ringleader, I was planning
      to do likewise. And...\r\n\r\n<em>But it should happen soon, because a lot of
      good names have already been suggested that someone could snap up.</em>\r\n\r\nI
      have specifically tried to not become attached to any single name, as it could
      be grabbed any moment by a misanthrope just to throw things. Likewise, from
      the above suggestions, and the responses to them, I will choose something tonight,
      so, flip through the above and \"last call for comments!\"\r\n"
    created: '2007-01-31 19:13:57'
  created: '2007-01-31 18:09:45'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Yeah, Gus, I'm a little concerned too. Could be paranoia, but I think with
    good reason.\r\n\r\nI'm pretty certain that when I checked 'www.typograph.info'
    yesterday it was available, but now it's under construction in Germany. Hmmm.
    This thread is a perfect source for domain squatters to grab good names they already
    know someone may be interested in.\r\n\r\nI've got another list of possible type/font
    related names, but now I'm cautious of posting them here. Even if Choz wasn't
    to use them they could still be good for some other type related site and it would
    be a shame if a web parasite got hold of them first.\r\n\r\nWhat to do? Any suggestions
    anyone?\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-31 18:57:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Typothocary\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-31 19:01:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Typocrit\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-31 19:04:24'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Ssshhhh, Chris. Check for bugs. Someone's listening ;\xAC|"
  created: '2007-01-31 19:04:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Typecaste\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-31 19:05:37'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: Maybe I'm just being a Typochondriac who thinks he's got Paranoid Typophrenia
    :~P
  created: '2007-01-31 19:16:29'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: "Fontism.com, fontsorts.com, fontspring.com, fonthold.com, fontinblue.com
    (OK, that last one is a really bad pun) are all available. Fontalicious is already
    taken (good grief again).\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-31 19:48:56'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "typocracy.com\r\n\r\n.........................................................\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bisondesign.no\">Bison Design</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myspace.com/sponnorway\">Sp\xF6n</a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-31 19:57:28'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: "> Maybe I\u2019m just being a Typochondriac who thinks he\u2019s got Paranoid
    Typophrenia\r\n\r\nTypophrenia and typophrenic are both available. So is typofeel,
    but, um...\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-31 20:04:50'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Archetype\r\nAntitype\r\n\r\nTypocracy\r\n(The typolitical antithesis of
    despotype. Damn, alexfjelldal beat me to it)\r\nTypology\r\nTyposium / Typodium
    / Typonium\r\nTypecutter\r\nTyperspace\r\nTypostrophe\r\nTypervert\r\n\r\nFontissimo\r\nFontana\r\nFontificate\r\nFontifex\r\nFontage\r\nFontiac\r\nFontoon\r\nFonteria\r\nFontero\r\n\r\n******************************************************************************\r\n\r\nMy
    shortlists in no particular order:\r\n\r\nFor the site to be perceived as a serious
    authority on fonts...\r\nFontrank\r\nTypocracy\r\nTyposium\r\nTypecutter\r\nArchetype\r\n\r\nMore
    lighthearted and possibly more memorable in the vein of semi-abstract names like
    Google and Yahoo...\r\nFontgroove\r\nFontezuma\r\nFontastic\r\nTyperspace\r\nFontiac\r\n\r\n******************************************************************************\r\n\r\nDomain
    squatters, may thee be struck down with great vengeance and furious anger whoever
    shalt covet these names in the pursuit of thine unworthy greed.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-31 21:06:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Fontabulator\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-31 21:35:46'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: "Words on type. Fontcapades. Typememe (a twofer, or even a threefer as typem\xEAme).
    Demotype.\r\n\r\nNo other Douglas Adams fans willing to vote for fontways (font-weighs,
    ahem)? Oh well."
  created: '2007-01-31 22:13:02'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Choz, if you're considering the association with Typophile idea I mentioned
    earlier...\r\n\r\nTypofile\r\nFontophile\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-31 23:05:49'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Fontvibe\r\nTypevibe\r\n\r\nDez, ...you're crackin me up!\r\n\r\n________\r\nHiro"
  created: '2007-02-01 04:50:15'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "The hour is late for many of you, but here comes my short list. Every suggested
    name (including some sent privately) has been analyzed. I have considered the
    following: availability, the charm/stylishness, target audience appeal, pronunciation
    ease, spelling ease, brand/culture-power, and quality of conveying \"fonts\" and
    \"consensus\".\r\n\r\nI will choose one in several hours, but encourage all readers
    to reply to this beforehand. Post here, or email me at no{DASH}prize@exclamachine.com
    <em>(Use a \"-\")</em>with feedback.\r\n\r\nThe candidates are...\r\n\r\ncommunitype\r\n\r\nfontelligence\r\n\r\nfontgroove\r\n\r\nfontograph\r\n\r\ntyposium\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-01 07:04:49'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Yes, Despotype is registered to me, and yes, if Choz felt that the name was
    perfect for what he was trying to do, then I will happily give it over. But I
    guess that another name will rise to the top, and, if so, I will probably use
    it for releasing a few of my own fonts, which I believe is more or less consistent
    with Hrant's intentions when proposing the name. I agree - real domain scammers,
    looking only to harvest googlejuice or extort money, are among my least favorite
    net people.\r\n\r\nThe name \"fonticello\" just popped into my head. A bit America-centric
    in its references, perhaps, but at least it rolls off the tongue trippingly."
  created: '2007-02-01 07:07:21'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "And the winner is:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/typosum_3904.jpg]\r\n<p>\r\n\r\n\"The
    Typosium\"\r\n\r\nCongratulations to Wormwood, and thank you to everybody else,
    too!"
  created: '2007-02-01 12:20:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hiro,\r\n\r\nDon't mind me, it was a curse that was passed on to me from
    my ancestors. I guess when my teachers wondered if I ever would \"get serious\",
    they had a point :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: good choice Wormwood!"
  created: '2007-02-01 12:50:17'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "I'm shocked. I'm stunned. I'm overjoyed and deeply humbled. You don't know
    how much this means to me, sob, sob, sniff.\r\n\r\nBut this honour doesn't just
    belong to me. There are many others I have to thank...\r\n\r\nMy Mother and Father,
    wherever they are. The nuns at the orphanage, for their selfish devotion to duty.
    My old headmaster, for beating some sense into me. The ruthless inspiration of
    my inglish teecha. My first girlfriend, Desiree, for showing me her amazing *****.
    My scout master for explaining the differnece between a camp fire and a forest
    fire. My Uncle Betty for revealing an, ahem, alternate side of life. My driving
    instructor for the wisdom of not reversing on a dual carriageway. Bob for fixing
    the central heating. My credit card company, for their understanding in times
    of...\r\n\r\n...23 minutes later...\r\n\r\n...and finally the eternal love and
    wonderful innocence of my beautiful young 7th wife ..., hey, wait a ****** minute,
    where's my ****** award?\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-01 13:00:30'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "1) Don't worry, that's not a real logotype, I just wanted something grand
    for the announcement. Wormy, you won all the methods. The reaction here was positively
    yours. I bugged my friends with the shortlist, and it was sorta mixed. In the
    early morning \"total strangers at Krystal's\" tie-breaker, however, you had it
    by a landslide. I wanted the lay person's reaction to not using \"font\", and
    it flew. \r\n\r\n2) Prize details here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/No-Prize\r\nWe
    have decided to serve you better with electronic communications, and the award
    should already be in your email inbox.\r\n\r\n3) I hope everyone involved here
    on the thread has had their interest  piqued! There is much still to do, such
    as determining the method of reviewing decorative, display and text fonts harmoniously,
    or if this is even a good idea.\r\n\r\n4) Ok, you do deserve a prize of some sort
    so here it is. I decided to  save costs again, so this is from a spec \"contest\"
    on mostbestestgraphics.ru. I've promised to pay them based on how much you or
    I like it, whichever is less:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/weirdjoke_3566.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    really need some sleep."
  created: '2007-02-01 23:14:44'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: And more/better drugs....  ;-)
  created: '2007-02-01 23:27:30'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Thanx, Choz. You shouldn't have. No, I really mean that ;)\r\n\r\nHowever,
    I don't think the cartoon totally meets my vague and conflicting expectations
    of an award. So the Russian's get nothing.\r\n\r\nI hope the website becomes a
    success for you.\r\n\r\nAnd I hope you'll retain the antiquarian Greek philosopher
    aspect of a symposium. Hic! Buurrrrp! The beers are on you at the first Typosium
    Symposium Nashville 2008.\r\n\r\nHere's some Typosium ranking 'five star font
    award' logos I couldn't resist knocking up. I always go overboard at a projects
    conception stage, even if it's not my own :)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TyposiumLogo_4181.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    actually thought of the 'T dagger' device for the Typecutter name I suggested.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-02 00:29:11'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: Choz, very nice job on the placeholder graphic at typosium.com. Somehow, it
    speaks to the feeling of an ancient Greek symposium (maybe the gradient?).
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "Thank you much. :) That was just a quickie that probalby tells exactly
      \ what software I have installed, to the keen FontID'er. I like Wormwood's \"Dogbone\"
      logtype, but am not really ready to think about the look of Typosium, so I figured
      a mix of fonts would be appropriate without feeling too committal!\r\n\r\nI
      have created a \"Department of Planning\" forum over at <a href=\"http://typosium.org\">http://typosium.org</a>
      to begin the discussion regarding what it is and how it works. So far there
      is a manifesto I hope to evolve into a mission statement, and a I am now working
      on describing some technologies/concepts/terms that I think will make the whole
      thing work."
    created: '2007-02-02 21:24:40'
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: DUPE
    created: '2007-02-02 21:43:35'
  created: '2007-02-02 18:04:55'
date: '2007-01-25 21:53:38'
title: Name a font critique site win a no-prize

---
