---
author:
  name: truecolors
  picture: 110069
body: "Greetings!\r\n\r\nI have been working for the past few months in Illustrator
  on a display family with lots of alternate glyphs and ligatures and would like to
  begin the process of creating a fully functioning OT font in FontLab 5.0.2. (on
  Mac X)\r\n\r\nI have never used FontLab before and this business of a [[UPM]] value
  of 1000 throws me already off. The number 1000 seems such a unyielding beast regarding
  it's compatibility with other numbers. It cannot be cleanly divided by 3 to start
  with. Could I use 1080, for instance? (With the exception of 7, it is divisible
  by any number between 1 and 10 and by 12, 15, 18, etc.)\r\n\r\nOr is s there a way
  to get around those rounding errors by choosing a number lower than 1000? In my
  case, the number 864 would allow all points in all weights to fall precisely on
  the grid. (the design has a few decorative elements, like seamless patterns for
  each weight, for instance, which I would like to remain seamless)\r\n\r\nAny input
  on this would be greatly appreciated!\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nPeter"
comments:
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "This question has been asked answered in detail on Typophile many times.
    The short answer is you can use a huge variety of UPMs - but as you have guessed
    the math can matter. In general 1000 is the size used but for instance Microsoft
    fonts are made to 2048. You can also use 1080 - not a problem. But for the max
    info enter this into google: \r\n\r\nsite:typophile.com UPM\r\n\r\nAll the details
    to this question are there. BTW Typophiles search doesn't always work for me and
    I have not spent time working out if the page the browser or what so save  that
    Search. You can substitute new search terms for 'UPM'.\r\n\r\nAny chance that
    you will post an image of what your up to?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-27 01:23:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: BTW your site is not showing up for me.
  children:
  - author:
      name: truecolors
      picture: 110069
    body: "Hi Eben,\r\n\r\nthanks for the search tip. The results give me plenty to
      ponder. My site is inactive right now.\r\n\r\nP"
    created: '2007-01-27 01:40:59'
  created: '2007-01-27 01:25:13'
- author:
    name: Mikhail Kovalev
  body: I've used UPM up to 16000 (for personal use)
  created: '2007-01-27 03:04:18'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Your icon is cool so I wanted to see more...
  children:
  - author:
      name: truecolors
      picture: 110069
    body: "thanks \u2013 I will show, but need more time..."
    created: '2007-01-27 11:42:01'
  created: '2007-01-27 03:47:06'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Writing off the top of my head now: \r\n\r\nThe maximum UPM size permitted
    by the OpenType and TrueType specifications is 16,384 (http://www.microsoft.com/OpenType/OTSpec/head.htm),
    and this is the value that FontLab Studio also permits as a maximum. \r\n\r\nYou
    need to keep in mind that the UPM size controls how glyphs will be sized at a
    specific point size (i.e. the point size chosen by the user in an application
    always corresponds to the UPM size of the font). If your UPM size is 2,000 and
    the user chooses 10 pt type, any glyph that will be 1,000 units high in your font
    will be exactly 5 pt high in print. Typically, in text fonts, the height of flat
    uppercase Latin letters such as E, H or I is 70% of the UPM size. So if you pick
    a non-1000 UPM size but you want for your font to go well with other fonts available
    on the user\u2019s system (i.e. so that it\u2019s not untypically small or untypically
    large in relation to other fonts), you should make your uppercase letters roughly
    1,400 units high in a 2,000 UPM font. Of course this is just a rough estimation
    -- it can range from 1,100 to 1,600 units and will still be within the normal
    range. If your lowercase is quite large, you may want to make the uppercase appropriately
    smaller, somewhere around the 1,100 end. (For a 1,000 UPM font, all these values
    should be cut by half, obviously.) \r\n\r\nThe Type 1 specification states that
    absolute glyph coordinates must not exceed the range of \u20132,000 to +2,000,
    in both x and y directions (http://partners.adobe.com/public/developer/en/font/T1_SPEC.PDF
    section 3.3). This means that according to this specification, *regardless of
    the UPM size*, none of your extrema points should have the x or y position larger
    than \xB12,000 units. \r\n\r\nWhile in the Type 1 specification states that the
    general limitation is \xB12,000, the Type 1 spec supplement states that the most
    important implementations have higher limites: the Adobe PostScript RIP that is
    built into printers and imagesetters supports glyph coordinates up to \xB14,095
    and the Adobe screen font driver (ATM/CoolType) supports coordinates up to \xB18,191.
    So these are the more important limitations to observe. \r\n\r\nAll those limitations
    are also valid for OpenType PS fonts as they are being converted to Type 1 fonts
    when sent to a PostScript printer. \r\n\r\nAdobe recently released a set of OpenType
    PS fonts with the UPM size of 2,048 (Adobe Arabic, Adobe Hebrew, Adobe Thai) in
    which there are a few very wide glyphs in which the x coordinate is about 3,500.
    This exceeds the original Type 1 limitation of \xB12000 but is still within the
    Adobe PostScript RIP limitation of \xB14095. \r\n\r\nIt seems that, regardless
    of the chosen UPM size, the maximum glyph coordinates in an OpenType PS (.otf)
    and Type 1 font is \xB14095. \r\n\r\nIn FontLab Studio, you can check the maximum
    glyph coordinates in Font Info / Metrics and Dimensions / Key Dimensions / Font
    BBox. The values listed there are in order: (minimum x, minimum y) - (maximum
    x, maximum y). Make sure that the absolute value of neither of the numbers is
    larger than 4095. \r\n\r\nFontLab Studio currently has an internal implementation
    limit for glyph coordinates of \u201332,767 to +32,767. This means that very high
    coordinate values (e.g. over 10,000) might cause problems at geometric transformations
    (scaling, rotating etc.). You can observe the effect easily if you scale something
    in FontLab by 1000% several times -- you will see that the glyphs \"implode\".\r\n\r\nAltogether,
    it is not possible to give one definitive answer of what the maximum UPM size
    and maximum glyph coordinates should be. For reasons of conciseness (one of the
    glyph design principles recommended by the Type 1 specification), the designer
    should not choose a larger UPM size than is needed for the precision he\u2019s
    looking for. If the precision offered by the UPM of 1000 is not sufficient, the
    designer should choose 2000, and failing that, higher values such as 3000 or 4000
    \u2014 while on the other hand keeping in mind that all glyph coordinates should
    fit within the \xB14095. \r\n\r\nDepending on the font format (OpenType PS or
    TT) the tool choice (Fontographer or FontLab Studio) and backwards-compatibility
    concerns (does the font really have to print on printers or imagesetters made
    in 1992?) the limits are different. Also, many of those limits are not \"hard\"
    or specified by any vendors, they\u2019re empirical estimates that people found
    after struggling with some bugs in specific devices. \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2007-01-28 22:40:52'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Having said that, using a UPM size that is *lower* than 1000 is absolutely
    no problem, and using a UPM size that does not end with three zeros, and is not
    a power of two, is also no problem. So using the UPM size of 864 is just as fine
    as 1080 or 997 or 115, or even 13. In fact, I have seen pixelfonts designed on
    a 13 unit UPM size, with each \"pixel\" square was exactly one font unit high
    and wide. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-01-28 23:49:40'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "If you want a UPM value higher than 1000 keep in mind the rounding errors
    when you scale the font up or down. \r\nI typically use a UPM of 3000 as this
    is obivously lossless when scaling up (all values are multiplied by 3), and when
    scaling down the maximum rounding error is only 1/3, which is the lowest possible
    maximum rounding error you can get when scaling down."
  created: '2007-01-29 01:07:12'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Tim, what do you mean by \"scale the font up or down\"? \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-01-29 01:27:33'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "I was assuming that fonts with an UPM of 1000 are to be generated in the
    end and also that you might only temporarily want to increase the UPM value for
    certain operations or design steps. In that case, when changing the UPM you would
    check the \"Scale all glyphs according to UPM size change\" checkbox because otherwise
    you would not effectively change the \"resolution\". This implies \"scaling\",
    i.e. multiplying the coordinates of every node by a certain number - which can
    lead to rounding errors and stem weight inconsistencies.\r\n\r\nIf you only want
    a slightly different UPM you may not need to scale the glyphs. However, I do not
    understand what would be the benefit of that.\r\n\r\nPeter, what do you mean by
    \"the number 864 would allow all points in all weights to fall precisely on the
    grid.\"? What grid are you talking about?"
  created: '2007-01-29 09:59:27'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Back in 1995; I wrote something about UPEM for Microsoft. This was in relation
    to the 'head' table in a TrueType font and why 2048 was chosen for TrueType by
    Sampo Kaasila and Apple Computer. Basically it is because division on a computer
    (especially when TrueType was made) is slow and division can be achieved quickly
    by shifting bits if the values are powers of 2.\r\n\r\n* unitsPerEm should be
    a power of 2 (2048 ideally).\r\n\r\nWhat is a power of 2?\r\nA value that is the
    product of 2 to the power of 'n'. For example, the ideal value of unitsPerEm is
    2048. This is the product of 2 to the power of 11.\r\n\r\nWhy a power of 2?\r\nDivision
    on computers is a very slow operation. One way programmers get around this problem
    is to use a technique of shifting bits for division. When a value is a power of
    2, division can be performed by simply shifting the bits in the binary of that
    number. This is extremely fast and efficient.\r\n\r\nThis method is similar to
    dividing by ten in a decimal system. To divide 1000 by 10, you only need to move
    the decimal place one value to the left. The result is the same as 1000 divided
    by 10 or 100.0.\r\n\r\nWhy 2048?\r\n2048 units were chosen for a few reasons:\r\n\r\n
    \   * It is a power of 2 (2 to the 11th power).\r\n    * 2048 is a high enough
    value for good precision in rendering.\r\n    * 2048 is a low enough value to
    be processed efficiently by microcomputers.\r\n\r\nIn the Asian fonts for Windows,
    MS Mincho and MS Gothic, it was necessary (at the time of their release) to choose
    a lower value (256 units) because of the file size of these font files.\r\n\r\nThe
    actual units per em value is a balance between the amount of processing power,
    the complexity and size of the font file, and the amount of precision that can
    be obtained with this value. A low units per em value would result in less quality
    in the output, but be faster to process. A high units per em value would produce
    a higher quality output, but be slower in processing.\r\n\r\nToday, computers
    are more powerful than ever and the use of large fonts with thousands of glyphs
    is becoming more common, especially with Unicode and OpenType fonts. With today's
    computers, we suggest the 2048 units per em value as still the best value for
    all fonts of any size, including large Latin or non-Latin script fonts. "
  created: '2007-01-29 12:36:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If you have designed legacy fonts at 1000 units and later decide you need
    more precision, you can double the UPM to 2000 units in FontLab without any rounding
    errors. If you go to 2048 from 1000, won't there be rounding errors to contend
    with? Is the computation speed difference between 2000 and 2048 enough better,
    given todays computers, that it is worth the tweaking of outlines to overcome
    rounding errors?\r\nAssume this would be a font with extended Latin, Greek, and
    Cyrillic scripts only--no Asian font complexity.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-29 19:40:07'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>Is the computation speed difference between 2000 and 2048 enough better,
    given todays computers, that it is worth the tweaking of outlines to overcome
    rounding errors?</cite>\r\n\r\nGood question!\r\n\r\nMaybe it's a choice: Either
    you care less for speed (provided there is still a significant difference). Or
    you care less for metrical identity of possible .otf and .ttf versions (or make
    a .ttf version only). In the latter case you could use 2048 instead of 2000 without
    rescaling outlines, which makes the .ttf version look a bit smaller.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-29 21:34:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Karsten! I didn't realize all ttf fonts had to be 2048 to scale properly.
    Would a .otf font on Windows also have to be scaled to 2048?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-29 22:05:12'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Karsten, you are not saying you have to pick 2000, 2048 or 1000 UPM for any
    format are you? What I think you are saying is just that if you do choose 2048
    for speed in TT & 1000 ( or 2000 or whatever but not say 1024...) in OTF (type
    one flavour) you will be choosing speed over exactly identical data eg 'metrical
    identity'. Or if you choose to keep identical or proportional sizes, eg 1000 &
    1000 or 1000 & 2000 or even 3000 you are choosing exactness. If you choose 2048
    for both TT & OTF then you get both too.  But maybe I am not getting you here.
    \r\n\r\nFor instance: when you write, 'which makes the .ttf version look a bit
    smaller.' do you mean that the 2000 UPM font will look smaller than the 2048 fonts?
    Or that it will look smaller than the 1000 UPM version? In either case I don't
    follow your thinking because isn't visual size vs. stated size (pt em  etc) exclusively
    a question of the glyph's proportion in comparison to the chosen UPM itself? "
  created: '2007-01-30 06:23:31'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'BTW, Adam, thanks for yet further subtle distictions on this topic! Awesome. '
  created: '2007-01-30 06:24:41'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Hello Eben, I only addressed Mr Lozos question, how to change the UPM but
    avoid rounding errors if you <cite>want</cite> to change it. So it was a what-if
    thing.\r\nThat UPM be a power of 2 is a recommendation for TT-OpenType fonts,
    but not for OT-OpenType fonts. (As far as I know.)\r\nI think if I had a font
    with PostScript-outlines and UPM of 1000, I would not change the UPM for generating
    a TrueType-outline version. So I am myself curious about the actual speed advantages
    of, say 2048 vs 2000 in a TT-OpenType font. \r\n\r\nWhat I mean with \"looks smaller\"
    is: Imagine the same outline (not rescaled) once on an em-square/body of 2000,
    once on an em-square/body of 2048. In an application, if you choose 12 pt with
    both versions, the latter will look a bit smaller since the body is larger.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2007-01-30 07:48:27'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Just to clarify this: \r\nWhat Karsten means would be done in FL in two steps:\r\n1.
    changing the UPM from 1000 to 2000 with \u201CScale all glyphs according to UPM
    size change\u201D checked.\r\n2. In a second step, changing it from 2000 to 2048
    without that checkbox checked.\r\n\r\nI think this is quite an elegant solution
    to the problem."
  created: '2007-01-30 09:33:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eureka! Thanks Tim! That certainly makes the light come on in my aging cranium!
    The amount smaller would be insignificant.\r\nKarsten, that is a brilliant solution!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-30 12:56:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Isn't 2%--48/2000--significant when it comes to typefaces? \r\n\r\nIf you
    just tell FontLab to generate a TT font from a font with Bezier curves at 1000
    UPM, it will convert the outlines and keep the 1000 UPM, right? Is this a problem?
    What does FontLab recommend? "
  created: '2007-01-30 14:33:38'
- author:
    name: Mikhail Kovalev
  body: "> Adobe recently released a set of OpenType PS fonts with the UPM size of
    2,048\r\n> (AdobeArabic, Adobe Hebrew, Adobe Thai) in which there are a few very
    wide\r\n> glyphs in which the x coordinate is about 3,500.\r\n\r\nWhat does it
    mean? Fonts with the UPM size of 2,048 in which the x coordinate is about 3,500?
    I understand UPM 2,048 is the total number of points? \r\n\r\n> Adobe PostScript
    RIP limitation\r\n> of \xB14095.\r\n\r\nHow does it translate to the UPM size?\r\n\r\nThanks."
  created: '2007-01-30 15:59:05'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Karsten, & Tim: \r\n\r\nThanks! Okay, that's what I thought! Whew. I feel
    better.\r\n\r\nWhat I especially want to know is what in your wisdom do you choose
    to work in today? 1000 UPM? 2048? Why? \r\n\r\nAre you considering a change? \r\n\r\nWhat
    about the rest of you? As far as I can recall I have not read of any disadvantages
    to working in 2048 so given it's advantages - why not? So far I have really only
    worked in 1000.\r\n\r\n I have to admit that the idea of giving a customer two
    diferent 'sizes' of fonts in TT & OT or t1 seems like a really bad idea. Or phrased
    differently It seems like maintaining preceived size is a good idea. But so does
    maintaining ( as much as possible ) identical data/forms accross formats. "
  created: '2007-01-30 16:06:56'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>What I especially want to know is what in your wisdom do you choose
    to work in today?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhich UPM is ideal to <cite>work in</cite>, meaning
    the design work regardless of technical issues, that is an interesting question.
    I typically switch between UPM of 1000 and 3000. As said before, scaling up is
    lossless as all coordinates are multiplied by three and scaling down to 1000 has
    relatively small rounding errors. Keep in mind that scaling from an UPM 2000 down
    to 1000 is the worst case: about every other value has a rounding error of 0.5,
    which can esily add up to stem inconsistencies. So generally avoid scaling things
    by exactly 50%.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, it is easy to forget that even a UPM
    of 1000 is much more than the typical printing resolution: For example, at 1200
    dpi and a type size of 60 pt you have a 1:1 relation between dots and font units.
    This means that in order to change something only by one dot at, say 10 pt you
    need at least 6 units in Fontlab, even if that looks very much on the screen."
  created: '2007-01-30 16:27:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "For me, the difference between 1000 and either 2000 or 2048 matters only
    in certain situations. More-so in very light weights and with italics and scripts.
    Cases where a join is being made and a hotspot is the demon to avoid. a fine hairline
    script would be in most need. You just need those between angles of control handles
    to manage the diagonal intersections pleasantly. Your average weight vertical
    font won't be a problem at 1000.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-01-30 17:10:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"So I am myself curious about the actual speed advantages of, say 2048\"\r\n\r\nMS
    says it is \"substantial\". What makes it not worth investigating further, is
    that scaling Up is hardly a type-shattering problem in type design. If someone
    is concerned about scaling from 1000 to 2048, see your local FL Constabulary for
    Up scaling with hinting in FL. On the other hand to be fair, they are supplying
    hinting of the output to solve the more generally problematic Down scaling of
    type.  \r\n\r\n\"changing the UPM from 1000 to 2000 with \u201CScale all glyphs
    according to UPM size [...then] changing it from 2000 to 2048 without that checkbox
    checked.\r\nI think this is quite an elegant solution to the problem.\"\r\n\r\nThis
    is a solution. It's best employed on 1000 dpi fonts that have no metric history
    in the outside world as it leaves 1000 and 2048 fonts unmatched vertically. It
    also says you didn't care for the original relationship twixt design and em by
    a specific factor. ;)\r\n\r\nThere have been a lot of threads here, but fabric
    fails to form. ;)\r\n\r\nThere are two variables in the designer's UPM decision
    tree: the memory and processing of the composition system, and the characteristics
    of the type design. \r\n\r\nThe OS's big problem with \"real Typography\" was
    always that the UPM's size alone is not enough of answer upfront \"how big?\"
    how much memory and etc. ... So, to handle Typography, there are now more numbers
    and tables in the font formats to answer the question in enough detail.  But still,
    \ there's got to be a gross maximum unit system upon which, the UPM exists, and
    the type occupies, mostly within, but not exclusively within the em. That's the
    truce \u2014 we have 16,384 to build: an em (TT) and all the extent we need. But
    if you use it all on the em! (8x2048 you fools!), don't go outside of that 16,384,
    please, it could have consequences for all of us. . .\r\n\r\nDesign's big problem
    with the EM is when the level of detail is under-whelmed by resolution. 1000 rarely
    needs to change for \"normal\" design detail. 2048 rarely needs to change for
    \"any\" design detail. The Linotype library was built on 8000 something. The Bitstream
    Library was built on 4320, and the Adobe Library was built on 1,000.  So, a designer's
    got to have something very special to render in a master (small relative to the
    upm, or large relative to the user), to make one choose something beyond 2048.
    \r\n\r\nI hope that's all true, still. "
  created: '2007-01-30 17:13:17'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Some clarification from Microsoft's Greg Hitchcock:\r\n\r\n<em>I'm fairly
    sure the reasoning in TrueType was all about performance. Integer math was much
    quicker than floating point. TrueType fonts preferred having the Units per EM
    (UPM) as a power of two because in all of the scaling of the outlines, one has
    to continually divide by the UPM. When that is a power of two it is much quicker
    and can be implemented with a \"shift right\" instruction. \r\n\r\nOf course higher
    UPM size give greater accuracy to the outline data, giving the equivalent of fixed
    fractional precision, but there is a trade-off in data size. For TrueType, outline
    data is typically stored as relative distances from the previous point. If the
    relative distance could be stored in a byte, it would be, otherwise it was stored
    in a 16-bit value. \r\n\r\nThe higher the UPM, the less likely relative distances
    would fit into a byte. For some of our early Japanese fonts, we used 256 UPM in
    order to reduce the outline data size. 2048 UPEM was common in TrueType because
    it seemed like a good balance between data size and accuracy. The range for TrueType
    and OpenType is between 16 and 16,384 inclusive.</em>\r\n\r\nAlso see:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/30727\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2009-05-14 01:03:07'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite>Keep in mind that scaling from an UPM 2000 down to 1000 is the worst
    case: about every other value has a rounding error of 0.5, which can esily add
    up to stem inconsistencies. So generally avoid scaling things by exactly 50%.</cite>\r\n\r\nA
    question for Tim (assumed he will some day pass here again\u2026 :-) ):\r\nIf
    I have upscaled my EM size to 2000 from an original of 1000, and then I scale
    it again to 1000, stem size would be kept consistent, if I have not modified it,
    right?\r\nI mean, the rounding error applies only where there is a value which
    you can\u2019t scale at 50%.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-28 18:40:11'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: Yes, scaling down anything that was scaled up should result in exactly the
    same (not only consistent stems) if it was not modified. This applies even if
    it was scaled by an odd value, say, scaling from 1000 to 1250 and back.
  created: '2010-10-29 09:34:28'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Hello Tim, thank you. For this typeface I am working on I had to choose a
    UPM of 2000, otherwise curves become disharmonic (it\u2019s quite condensed).
    I started at 1000, then I modified some curves after scaling it to 2000, but scaling
    down back to 1000 produces some breaks in curves, and the curves end up being
    not harmonic and unpleasant.\r\nI think I will keep the UPM at 2000, even if it
    is in an Opentype-flavored format. Since I have no intention to produce a Truetype-flavored,
    I choose 2000, so \u2013 just in case \u2013 I could scale down.\r\nI would prefer
    to keep 2000, anyway.\r\n\r\nSomeone knows which software could have problems
    with a Type1 or Type2 font with an UPM of 2000? Is the issue mostly related to
    printing engines or even to software? Thanks."
  created: '2010-10-29 12:54:37'
date: '2007-01-27 01:10:04'
title: UPM value of 1000 set in stone?

---
