---
author:
  name: ms. pater
  picture: 112138
body: "I am working on an identity for a seasoning salt shop. The idea is that people
  can come and mix their seasonings to suit their tastes (at the seasoning bar). It
  is important to stress the SALT part of the identity. I've come up with a lot of
  directions, but can't seem to symbolize salt without being extremely literal. How
  do I make seasoning look appetizing? I have an earth tone palette, but that is all
  I have going for me. I've ventured into the direcetion of meat (that changes with
  each use) + seasoning specks on it, but it might be too literal. Any help would
  be much appreciated.\r\n\r\nThanks\r\nVictoria"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Given that a salt is the Ph neutral output of the chemical reaction of and
    acid and an alkaloid, why not just go with something neutral but gorgeous? I think
    that Neutra is pretty appetizing.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/salt_4377.gif]"
  created: '2007-01-30 19:35:30'
- author:
    name: ms. pater
    picture: 112138
  body: "oh yeah, the name of the shop is: Flavorit\r\ntagline: customized seasoning
    salts"
  children:
  - author:
      name: mnott
      picture: 111664
    body: Is the Salt shoppe next to the Tape store?
    created: '2007-02-02 15:35:41'
  created: '2007-01-30 19:55:50'
- author:
    name: GraphicFuzz
    picture: 111520
  body: I dont think this can be solved by type alone. Given the health concerns and
    popularity of low-sodium diets, I'd say you have a large task here. The name of
    the business should be your starting point - it's fun and unpretentious. You need
    to come up with something visually appetizing, think delicious food, not necessarily
    just salt. You need to post some designs if you want better feedback.
  created: '2007-01-30 20:21:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'I actually used salt as a medium in my "quick creative ways to make a font"
    demo (part of the type design course I was teaching): just write/pour it on black
    paper, quick photo, then play with contrast and blur controls in photoshop, import,
    autotrace, and bingo!'
  created: '2007-01-30 20:23:10'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Use salt as the medium, fill a paper cone with salt and cut off the tip and
    draw with it on black paper (or photographic paper if you have access to a darkroom),
    single line illustrations/flowing script. Might be literal on one level but it
    could lead somewhere.\r\n\r\nTim\r\n\r\n<em>Edit: see what happens when you type
    in a comment</em>"
  created: '2007-01-30 20:26:27'
- author:
    name: ms. pater
    picture: 112138
  body: "hmm, a lot of my concepts never made it to the computer, so I will post an
    updated list of directions and what I've done on the computer after I get it all
    together. \r\nThanks for ideas "
  created: '2007-01-30 20:27:17'
- author:
    name: amboy00
    picture: 112148
  body: That is a great idea.
  created: '2007-01-30 20:34:07'
- author:
    name: ms. pater
    picture: 112138
  body: "it should show the coming together of spices, salt and herbs...\r\n\r\nI've
    tried: \r\n\u2022 salt shakers\r\n\u2022 mixing bowls\r\n\u2022 the aroma coming
    out of bowls, shakers, meals\r\n\u2022 combo of leaves + salt chrystal + spice\r\n\u2022
    top of salt shaker (s) or (f) for Flavorit\r\n\u2022 meat/veggie icons with seasoning\r\n\u2022
    salt as a texture - granuals become letter forms\r\n\u2022 combo of texture (one
    representing each: salt+spice+herb)\r\n\u2022 mixing spoon/measuring spoon + salt\r\n\u2022
    changing the letter \"o\" in Flavorit to the top of a shaker (slot for each ingredient)\r\n\u2022
    sprinkling action of pinching/spreading salt (with/without hands)\r\n\u2022 element
    chart\r\n\u2022 molecular make up\r\n\u2022 seasoning on plate/bowl/fork/spoon\r\n\u2022
    cubed salt\r\n\u2022 ingredients stacking (with/without + signs)\r\n\u2022 combining
    a leaf+salt grain+ spice icon\r\n\u2022 lips/tongue\r\n\u2022 turning the \"i\"
    into a shaker\r\n\u2022 stamp like approach to resemble crates of salt\r\n\u2022
    swirl action of combining ingredients/topping off food\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-30 20:40:13'
- author:
    name: ms. pater
    picture: 112138
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logothumbs_3553.jpg]'
  created: '2007-01-30 20:51:02'
- author:
    name: GraphicFuzz
    picture: 111520
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Salty_f_5821.gif]\r\n\r\n I love this
    idea, very clever. The type below could use some spicing up."
  created: '2007-01-30 21:01:53'
- author:
    name: sch2525
    picture: 112170
  body: I doubt it will be a popular choice, but I like the one on the lower left.
    It reminds me of the label on old spice jars.
  created: '2007-01-30 21:43:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yes, the f-dots is brilliant!\r\nBetter trademark that pronto :-)"
  created: '2007-01-31 00:02:22'
- author:
    name: inarges
    picture: 109620
  body: F-dots, deffo!
  created: '2007-01-31 01:02:32'
- author:
    name: Da Kine
    picture: 111014
  body: "One more ENTHUSIASTIC vote for F-dots!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!\r\nDB~"
  created: '2007-01-31 03:06:33'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: And another.  Tinker a bit with the typography, and you've got a winner.
  created: '2007-01-31 03:36:12'
- author:
    name: ms. pater
    picture: 112138
  body: "Thanks, I will work on it some more.\r\nIt was one of my first ideas, so
    I was a little hesitant."
  created: '2007-01-31 05:19:01'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Sometimes the first idea is the best.\r\nAnother vote for the dotted f!"
  created: '2007-01-31 07:19:29'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Also have a look at an \uFB01 (or \uFB02) ligature for dotted f.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-01-31 08:01:53'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: Oooo, I like the f-dots, too. Elegant solution. But your type will have to
    be larger in relation to the mark in order for it to be read when it is small,
    as on a business card.
  created: '2007-01-31 15:36:20'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: I like the f-dots too, but maybe try it with a fewer dots.
  created: '2007-01-31 17:00:34'
- author:
    name: iggyboo
    picture: 109930
  body: 'The Dots are a nice direction but its not done well enough. '
  created: '2007-01-31 17:49:16'
- author:
    name: ms. pater
    picture: 112138
  body: "Yeah, it needs to be refined A LOT, that was just a rough to see if it would
    portray salt. Type is just thrown in there as well. I will post my revisions tonight.\r\n\r\nTHANKS
    for all the suggestions."
  created: '2007-01-31 18:00:59'
- author:
    name: ms. pater
    picture: 112138
  body: "Here is some exploration with the F. \r\nLet me know what you think.\r\nSimple
    or more realistic?\r\n(#1 is the original)\r\nFeel free to leave your vote!\r\nThanks\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/flogo_5445.jpg]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: battlefield
    body: "number 5 is about right. \r\nmaybe with a sprinkle of Futura or something
      even more basic.\r\nMost of the other examples give me the golfball idea IMHO."
    created: '2007-01-31 23:49:30'
  created: '2007-01-31 20:49:03'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "I'm chiming in late on this, so to go back a few posts, I love the salt shaker
    idea, and like the hand pinching salt next best. My immediate reaction to the
    subsequent 9 schemes is that the \"f-ness\" of the letter is best preserved in
    1, even if it is less bold. I think it carries the concept best if you can immediately
    read the letter. My reaction to the sketches with bolder or fewer dots is that
    they don't work as well. Also, 2 and 5 have a heavy border: to my eye that steals
    thunder from the f. The ones with holes in outline don't seem graphically strong
    enough. It's an interesting direction to take with the crescent-shaped shadows
    in the last two, but I like the flat scheme best, as it reminds me of a large
    shaker with a handle whose top is flatter and not domed. What if the disc acquired
    some light tone? or what if the gray tone were actually a photograph of the wonderful
    off-white texture of the salt? Reall, though, it seems best to keep it very simple
    and clean, allowing it to appear in small ads in the local paper, etc.\r\n\r\nFinally,
    as you refine this, might you consider shifting the axis of the vertical stroke
    just wee bit to the left? I know it is geometrically centered on the disc now,
    but since most of the \"action\" and dynamism in the glyph is happening on the
    right, it doesn't feel <em>quite</em> centered. I'm talking a very subtle move
    here, mind you. \r\n\r\nWhat an inspired idea!\r\n\r\nWill you have any influence
    on the interior design of the shop? I once attended a brown-bag lunch at the Alliance
    Fran\xE7aise and the speaker that day was an (American) architect who had lived
    for a time near Gu\xE9rande in France where all the sea salt production takes
    place. Her friend owned an airplane so she went up with him many times and photographed
    the big evaporation areas from above -- it was like seeing the most amazing and
    beautiful abstract paintings! I'm sure such images are available through stock
    agencies and they could make a wonderful impression in the shop."
  children:
  - author:
      name: ms. pater
      picture: 112138
    body: "Thanks for the advice, I've been trying to get it look centered by off
      centering it a tad. \r\n"
    created: '2007-02-01 02:39:10'
  created: '2007-02-01 00:40:37'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I was thinking about moving the 'f' to the left as well. \r\nSubtle or not,
    just look and place it so that it is optically in the middle of the circle. Especially
    when the strokes get thicker.\r\n\r\nI like the 'f' of 6 the best. But over-all
    I think 4 is the nicest. But on 4 the 'f' also needs to go up a bit."
  created: '2007-02-01 02:05:50'
- author:
    name: ms. pater
    picture: 112138
  body: "Here is where I am at:\r\n\r\n(the 1st is Universe + Sabon)\r\n(the 2nd is
    Helvetica Nue + Esprit)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1logo_4577.jpg]"
  created: '2007-02-01 02:47:38'
- author:
    name: ms. pater
    picture: 112138
  body: "(3rd is Avant Garde + Sabon)\r\n(4th is Futura + Esprit)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2logo_5227.jpg]\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-01 03:02:59'
- author:
    name: Da Kine
    picture: 111014
  body: "As I noted above, I love the shaker idea. My only problem is the name of
    the company. When I see \"flavorit,\" I do not see two words, \"flavor\" and \"it.\"
    I read the company name as one word... something like \"fla-vor'it.\" (Sounds
    like the name of a toothpaste)--- If this is a problem, you might considering
    a different font color for \"flavor\" and \"it.\"  God, I love being picky!\r\nDB~"
  created: '2007-02-01 03:08:31'
- author:
    name: Da Kine
    picture: 111014
  body: "As I noted above, I love the shaker idea. My only problem is the name of
    the company. When I see \"flavorit,\" I do not see two words, \"flavor\" and \"it.\"
    I read the company name as one word... something like \"fla-vor'it.\" (Sounds
    like the name of a toothpaste)--- If this is a problem, you might consider a different
    font color for \"flavor\" and \"it.\"  God, I love being picky!\r\nDB~"
  created: '2007-02-01 03:08:52'
- author:
    name: mjpatrick
    picture: 111908
  body: "On the graphic showing 9 concepts, I really liked #8 because it had the subtle
    shading on the lower left to give it slight dimension, and helps  tell people
    what it is. The shaker holes I would keep solid though, not outline.\r\n\r\nOn
    the follow-ups, namely the 3rd showing Avant Garde + Sabon, I would give the f
    and l a little more room to breathe. I think the 4th has the most personality
    of the four. I would still try some more faces because you have such a great idea
    going here. Nice work."
  created: '2007-02-01 03:18:23'
- author:
    name: WeAreLoa
    picture: 128775
  body: "A capital F would work better in that shape and help make a stronger link
    to a shaker. Also you might need to look at the balance between the icon and the
    type, they're not looking comfy with each other right now.\r\n\r\nCheers"
  created: '2007-02-01 05:41:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I think the proportions of the \"f\" in flavorit should match those of the
    f-dots symbol.\r\nThat's why I liked Futura, because the crossbar is low. You
    could tinker with the Futura \"f\", just for the wordmark--extend the crossbar
    to the left, and curl the top over a bit. Avoid anything resembling a ligature.
    The tag line would be good in Futura too, to stick with the modernist uniformity
    -- because your logo is a conceptual metaphor and hence modernist. The logo is
    also geometric modernist: the f-dots are perfect circles. Therefore grot types
    and those with square i-dots don't match. The principle here is to get everything
    to harmonize and reduce compexity at the same time. That all stems from the logo."
  created: '2007-02-01 05:58:49'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "If the company name needs to be <em>flavor it</em> what about using a bullet
    between the words? this would allow you to keep a relatively continuous stream
    of marks in that horizontal stripe, and it would even be an echo of the salt shaker
    dots above. I'll do it here but of course it'll be in serif type. <strong>flavor</strong>\u2022<strong>it</strong>\r\n\r\nI
    keep looking at the overall spareness and modernity of the shaker top and large
    word(s) in things like futura, and the following line in serif type. These traditional
    serif designs feel too \"other\", not clean and modern enough. what if you make
    the upper line sans lc in a big size, and then the lower line sans U/lc ital in
    smaller size?"
  created: '2007-02-01 12:42:41'
- author:
    name: ms. pater
    picture: 112138
  body: "I thought about the bullet, but it reminded me too much of fla\u2022vor\u2022ice
    popsicles.\r\n\r\nI will work on the type more, but I know my professor thinks
    future is too 1920's for my shop. Any other suggestions for the sans serif? I
    will have to change my F to match the typeface I go with."
  created: '2007-02-01 14:05:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Futura's x-height puts the f crossbar low, and that is necessary for the f-dots
    symbol to work effectively. So a more recent small x-height geometric sans would
    seem appropriate. But perhaps the small x-height is not crucial, which opens up
    the field. I'm sure you can find something in the FontBook.
  created: '2007-02-01 16:37:52'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "This looks really good\r\n\r\nThe use of Futura is very sympathetic to the
    mark, especially if you visually match up the thickness of the shaker's outline
    with the stroke weight of the type. Your mark is clean, simple and clever which
    is complemented by Futura's monoline appearance. \r\n\r\nThis treatment won't
    look 'too 1920s' to the vast majority of viewers. Your tutor's viewpoint and that
    of other design-centric observers on type is coloured by their own expertise and
    shouldn't be taken as gospel. \r\n\r\nNitpicking:\r\n\r\n\u2013 The type needs
    to be slightly bigger in relation to the mark, so it's slightly narrower than
    the width of the mark itself. If the lower line could be 'Customised seasoning
    blends' it could be set to match the width of 'flavorit' and by not explicitly
    mentioning salt you avoid the potential health stigma already noted.\r\n\r\n\u2013
    The three dots that make up the top curve of the 'f' might look better if the
    lower two are  aligned. The one that makes the very end of the curve looks like
    it has popped out of line whereas the other dots are very regularly placed.\r\n\r\n\u2013
    Slightly open up the kerning betwwen 'f' and 'l' to balance the word up\r\n\r\nGood
    luck\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-01 17:02:05'
- author:
    name: GraphicFuzz
    picture: 111520
  body: "+1 on the Futura.\r\n\r\nStill not digging the text under the name, reads
    too long, I could never picture all that on signage. There's a scale problem with
    relation to the name. Can you shorten this line? What about simply \"custom season
    salts\", or something like that?"
  created: '2007-02-01 19:48:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>This treatment won\u2019t look \u2018too 1920s\u2019 to the vast majority
    of viewers.</em>\r\n\r\nTrue, but that's not the point.\r\nA good design should
    satisy the more discerning as well."
  created: '2007-02-01 20:17:05'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nideally yes. It's admirable to try and please all the people
    all of the time, but is it necessary in this case to look for another typeface
    that does everything that Futura is doing in the logo currently, solely to avoid
    a small number of people raising an eyebrow over the date of the type? \r\n\r\nFor
    a moment let's assume we want to do just that. The shop is contemporary, the product
    is not, so what timescale is appropriate? \r\n\r\nWe can't pigeonhole salt in
    a particular time period so we're out of luck there. \r\n\r\nThe shop however
    is new so do we say contemporary typeaces only? Confine ourselves to this decade?
    Should we choose a Futura-like geometric sans released as close as possible to
    the opening date of the new shop in order to be as chronologically synchronised
    as possible? \r\n\r\nI'm not for a moment saying that designers should indulge
    in glaring typographic howlers, but should Futura be reserved solely for works
    on 1920s functionalism? An extreme example I know, but where does one draw the
    line?"
  created: '2007-02-02 10:08:46'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "On the last examples (with the names) the 'f' still is off-centre optically.
    It needs to go up and to the left quite a bit. :)\r\n\r\nTo be honest, I don't
    really like either of the typefaces used for the name. If I <em>had</em> to choose,
    I would go for the Univers one. But I think none of them is right on spot."
  created: '2007-02-02 18:52:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>where does one draw the line?</em>\r\n\r\nChris, there are several arguments
    for using contemporary typefaces for contemporary work, rather than old types.\r\n\r\nOne
    would be to preserve the integrity of historical allusion, which is the frame
    of reference which you mention.\r\nAnother would be to differentiate the product/service,
    so that it doesn't look like part of other corporations that use the same classic
    face.\r\n\r\nThe best argument for old faces is their \"neutrality\".\r\n\r\nHowever,
    transcending reasons related to the job in question is a general professional
    consideration, which is that it's important for creatives to express their own
    time and place, and support their peers, such as photographers, illustrators,
    and type designers. (Self-interest declared, although I have yet to publish an
    old-school geometric sans.)"
  created: '2007-02-02 20:29:04'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I like the idea of a \"dated\" face. Futura's a great face, I can't think
    immediately of a better contemporary face. And it is dated, but that's ok by me.
    I'm not burnt out on retro-chic done well. It reads nostalgia, \"think back when
    food was made in the kitchen, and we had giant salt shakers instead of microwaves
    and single-use salt packets.\"\r\n\r\nBy the way, I think a '50's font would take
    that too far, into trite kitsch."
  created: '2007-02-03 03:30:24'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "I vote for the version with Univers and Sabon. Also, in the second pair of
    proposals, the text below \"flavorit\" has become too tiny, I think.\r\n\r\nI
    also like the idea that \"flavor\" and \"it\" could be two different colors, or
    two shades of the same color (\"flavor\" could be the stronger percentage, get
    it?)."
  created: '2007-02-03 03:46:38'
- author:
    name: 72p
  body: "Victoria,\r\n\r\nIt is never too late some say...\r\n\r\nI honestly think
    the salt shaker Idea is a very good reference, both visual and conceptual. However,
    I feel the symbol is a little too obvious and literal. \r\n\r\nHave you tried
    the negative version of the symbol?, I think it would give it more presence.\r\n\r\nWhat
    about, instead of having such an essential lowercase \"f\" in the symbol, you
    use a much more elaborate one? or an Uppercase? \r\nSomething like giving the
    actual \"f\" some more flavor! \r\n\r\nAlso, With a symbol with such personality
    I would keep the logotype clean, with a type without too much character.\r\n\r\nHope
    it helps.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-03 12:22:14'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "and one little thing - I agree with 72p about the \"F\" - I would like to
    see you try it in an italic face - to \"emphasize\" it... giving it a shape and
    even a feeling of motion (shake)\r\n\r\nJust my opinion and hope it helps too."
  created: '2007-02-04 11:45:50'
- author:
    name: ms. pater
    picture: 112138
  body: "How are these looking?\r\nI like the reversed out f/F compared to the previous
    designs I was working with.\r\nI also tried to find a typeface that had some character
    (similar to futura)?\r\nI'm not sure about the script fonts, I like them for their
    handmade/loose feel, but I could be crazy. Feel free to disagree.\r\nCapital F
    or lc? Should Flavorit be the same as the dotted f as far as CAPS go?\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f1_5516.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f2_6039.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f3_4084.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f4_4898.jpg]"
  created: '2007-02-11 03:44:56'
- author:
    name: ms. pater
    picture: 112138
  body: should my type stick our further than the icon?
  created: '2007-02-11 03:56:17'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "I really like numbers 1 and 2, Victoria. What if you combined icon #2 with
    text #1? And if you made the \"flavor it\" from  #1 bolder?\r\n\r\nAlso, I think
    that the text should be as wide as the icon, to unite both elements visually."
  created: '2007-02-11 06:22:44'
- author:
    name: ms. pater
    picture: 112138
  body: "How do the dots look as far as a grid?\r\nShould I change the dotted f to
    be like the one used in \"flavorit\"\r\nAnd the typefaces chosen?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo_4962.jpg]"
  created: '2007-02-11 09:10:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "At this point, it may be a good idea to try some mock ups.\r\nPackaging,
    ads, biz cards, etc."
  created: '2007-02-11 19:53:28'
- author:
    name: jonsel
    picture: 111354
  body: "NIck has the right idea \u2013 try putting it to use and see how it works.\r\n\r\nI'm
    wondering why you are justifying the logotype with the symbol.  The symbol might
    work best smaller and elevated away from the type a bit.  Also, stop with the
    scripts.  It gets too busy and detracts from the great symbol."
  created: '2007-02-11 20:36:19'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "Please don't use Freestyle Script.\r\n\r\nEdit: Whoops, jonsel beat me to
    it."
  created: '2007-02-11 22:04:47'
- author:
    name: Sans Serif is for Europeans
    picture: 112228
  body: "I personally like this \"f\" better.\r\nhttp://www.dafont.com/only-when-i-do-font.font?text=f."
  created: '2007-02-12 01:45:41'
- author:
    name: ms. pater
    picture: 112138
  body: "Thanks for all your comments/suggestions.\r\n\r\nI don't mind the symbol
    being so geometric, but how can I make the type look more organic? Is it possible
    to mix the two? The shop allows you to mix custom flavors and seasoning salt is
    usually applied with the hands, any way to give that feel without the script type?\r\n\r\nThis
    looks too clean:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/flavorit_5577.jpg]"
  created: '2007-02-12 08:51:11'
- author:
    name: Sans Serif is for Europeans
    picture: 112228
  body: "In my oppinion there is no such thing as too clean. But maybe something as
    simple as italics or, stretching your font, would give you the feel you are looking
    for. A hand writen font might even do the trick.\r\n\r\n-GP\r\n----\r\nSans Serif
    is Grotesque."
  created: '2007-02-12 17:16:12'
date: '2007-01-30 19:14:05'
title: Seasoning Salt Shop Typography/Logo

---
