---
author:
  name: alexfjelldal
  picture: 109596
body: "Where do they come from? When did they emerge? The reason this question came
  to my mind, is that I seldom see bold serif fonts that i like. When i find a sans
  i like, i seldom like it's bold version. I don't think this has ever happened with
  a serif. For example, I think the bold garamonds I've seen are plain ugly. They
  don't look \"natural\" to me. how come?\r\n\r\nalex"
comments:
- author:
    name: Ken Messenger
    picture: 111387
  body: You're correct bold faces were not in the original lexicon of type. Neither
    was italic for that matter. To my knowledge bold types found favor during the
    industrial revolution and rampant commercialization that followed. "Make the type
    bigger" predates "Make the logo bigger"
  created: '2007-01-31 17:11:04'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: http://typophile.com/node/20709
  created: '2007-01-31 18:16:31'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "That makes it nice if you're planning on buying an \"old\" typeface like
    a Jenson revival. No need to waste the dough on a bunch of bold variants that
    are a)inauthentic and b)ugly. With today's opentype fonts, all you need to purchase
    is two types, regular and Italic, because the small caps and old style figures
    are included in the set. \r\n\r\nInstead of bold, most oldstyle typography used
    small caps. That's one thing that Bringhurst brings up. The italics were a separate
    style of type altogether. \r\n\r\nBold fonts were originally their own typefaces,
    but when the different foundries started consolidating, all sorts of stuff started
    getting tossed together into groups willy nilly. Blah."
  created: '2007-01-31 18:19:10'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: I see its time for the talk. When a "mommy" serif and a "daddy" serif love
    each other verrrrrry much... ;)
  created: '2007-01-31 18:24:33'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'So then the "Mommy" serif gets bold after that? And then the small caps come
    out? '
  created: '2007-01-31 18:29:58'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "Define 'original lexicon' please.\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Italic_type#History\r\n\r\nAccording
    to this, italic has been around for quite a long time, but it was used by itself
    and not as emphasis (as today). Plus or minus 1490 seems pretty original to me."
  created: '2007-01-31 18:32:46'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "So before the industrial revolution, there were no bold typefaces? weren't
    there any variations within a font family regarding color?\r\n\r\n\r\n.........................................................\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bisondesign.no\">Bison Design</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myspace.com/sponnorway\">Sp\xF6n</a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-31 20:01:54'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I don't know if there was an idea of 'bold' one way or the other as a concept
    but there were bold looking letters as far back as Rome I can tell you for sure.
    Sans Serif too. Maybe not conceived in the same way - certainly but letters that
    lacked serifs. And guess what? Sometimes they were the same letter. Imagine that,
    and you are off to a very good start. Can't see it?\r\n\r\nTake a look:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ebensorkin/274863685/in/set-72157594336113040/\r\n\r\nMy
    guess is that they may have said 'fat letter'. But I would also like to know the
    actual answer."
  created: '2007-01-31 22:17:21'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: The idea of weight variations of a single typeface family happened in the
    late nineteenth century. Before that, bold typefaces existed, but were considered
    to be separate typefaces, even if they seemed to follow the style of a lighter
    typeface. Same thing with condensed and extended. Morris Fuller Benton is credited
    with the idea, around 1900, of a typeface family, with a range of weights and
    widths.
  created: '2007-01-31 22:45:31'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>there any variations within a font family regarding color?</em>\r\n\r\n[[blackletter|blackletters]]
    were the original boldfaces according to [[robert bringhurst]] in the [[elements
    of typographic style]]."
  created: '2007-02-01 02:03:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Polkas_5206.jpg]\r\nIn 1850 London, before
    the Caslon revival, there were very few foundries and they all had pretty much
    the same typeface for basic text work. So although families as such did not exist
    yet, everything was nonetheless related. Here there are two versions of bold --
    a \"Clarendon\" and a \"Fatface\".\r\n\r\nActually, the contrast between a bold
    Clarendon and a Regular Scotch Modern is preferable to Regular and Bold of the
    same typeface, which is a relationship typographers have been tempted to use since
    families have been marketed with weight variants.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cadburys_4419.jpg]\r\nThis
    is from 1875."
  created: '2007-02-01 03:58:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cloaks_5823.jpg]\r\nFrom 1893. The typographer
    decided to use an \"ultra bold\" to get sufficient contrast with the regular text.
    But the two weights are properly aligned and have the same x-height.\r\n\r\nFor
    sans serif, the Bold weight was way more used till well into the 20th century,
    so the question there should be \"where do regular weight typefaces come from?\""
  created: '2007-02-01 04:14:35'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Come on, people, everyone knows that all fonts, whether bold or regular,
    come from your computer.  ;-)\r\n\r\nPaul [EDIT] and Nick, just to add to your
    comments [END OF EDIT], Alexander Lawson, in <em>Anatomy of a Typeface</em>, mentions
    that in 1850s England the name Clarendon became synonymous with boldface. He goes
    on to say:\r\n\r\n\"The idea of using a boldface character for emphasis rather
    than an italic became well established with Clarendon, a practice that remains
    common in commercial printing, principally newspapers.\""
  created: '2007-02-01 06:22:14'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "For the record, the Clarendon type of the Besley foundry is indeed the first
    type actually designed as a \u2018related bold\u2019 \u2013 that is, made to harmonize
    in design and align with the roman types it was set with. It was registered in
    Britain in 1845 under the new Ornamental Designs Act of 1842. But when protection
    ran out after only three years, the other founders also thought a related bold
    was a good idea. This is how Besley reacted.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fann
    St - Clarendon E - 600_4167.jpg]\r\nBut the idea of a \u2018bold face\u2019 goes
    back much further. Before the launch of Clarendon type printers picked out words
    in slab-serifs or any other heavy type. In the 18th century they used \u2018English\u2019
    or \u2018Old English\u2019 types, which is why they became known as \u2018black
    letter\u2019. John Smith says in his <em>Printer\u2019s grammar</em> (London,
    1755). \u2018Black Letter \u2026 is sometimes used \u2026 to serve for matter
    which the Author would particularly enforce to the reader.\u2019\r\nHe means this
    sort of setting, from a mathematical handbook published in London in 1740:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ward
    - Mathematics 3 600_4427.jpg]"
  created: '2007-02-01 09:43:07'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "Does somebody know when the english <em>term</em> \"blackletter\" appeared
    the first time?\r\n\r\nIn german we talk about \"gebrochene Schriften\" (broken
    fonts/scripts), if we talk about the \"fontgenre\" so far. (Fraktur, Textur, Rotunda,
    s.o.). We don't talk about something like \"black scripts\" or similar.\r\n\r\nregards"
  created: '2007-02-01 11:42:58'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">Does somebody know when the english term \u201Cblackletter\u201D appeared
    the first time?\r\nAccording to OED\r\n\r\n1640-4 Charge agst. Abp. Canterb. in
    Rushworth Hist. Coll. III. (1692) I. 115 His diligence to send for the Printer,
    and directing him to prepare a Black Letter, and to send it to his Servants at
    Edenburgh, for Printing this Book. 1712 ARBUTHNOT John Bull II. vii. (1727) 60
    The Seven champions in the black-letter. 1871 EARLE Philol. Eng. Tong. \xA799
    The form which is known to us as \u2018Black Letter,\u2019 and which was hardly
    less rectilinear than the old Runes themselves.\r\n\r\n1791 MAXWELL in Boswell
    Johnson an. 1770, He loved..the old black-letter books. 1800 RITSON Rob. Hood
    II. iv, From an old black-letter copy. 1808 W. IRVING Salmag. xviii. (1860) 410
    There was a certain black-letter dignity in the name. 1820  Sketch Bk. II. 90
    He was a complete black-letter hunter. 1845 LD. CAMPBELL Chancellors (1857) IV.
    lxxiv. 6 Not much of a lawyer compared with the black~letter men of these days.
    1855 MACAULAY Hist. Eng. III. 31 He scornfully thrust aside..all that blackletter
    learning. 1862 BURTON Bk. Hunter I. 18 He was not a black-letter man, or a tall-copyist,
    or an uncut man. 1864 Reader 23 July 105/1 The collection of black-letter ballads.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-02-01 12:28:14'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "It's one of those things that creep up on you. When most printing is being
    done in roman type, by contrast this 'old English' textura gothic suddenly looks
    \u2013 well \u2013 black. So that is what it is called on the Caslon specimen
    sheet of 1734. \r\n\r\nI prefer 'gothic' as a handy general term for all the types
    that are known as 'broken' type or letterforms in German \u2013 Fraktur, Schwabacher,
    textura, rotunda, b\xE2tarde, civilit\xE9 \u2013 but this can be tricky in the
    US where gothic became the name for sanserif. Which must be why it's called black
    letter (or blackletter) instead."
  created: '2007-02-01 12:54:09'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "Thank you for the information, Tim\r\n\r\nMaybe blackletter as a term was
    invented at the time, the \"english writing\" world went away using brokenscripts/brokenfonts
    as textfonts.\r\nAnd used black- and bold versions of \"brokenfonts\" for display,
    headline and so on.\r\nA mad thesis? What do you think?\r\n  \r\n"
  created: '2007-02-01 14:45:20'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "That's about it, I think. Having a good strong colour, it was good for the
    names of newpapers at the head of the front page \u2013 the masthead. And sometimes,
    though not always, there were the overtones of 'tradition' that tend to attach
    to it and keep it in use today."
  created: '2007-02-01 15:32:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Thanks for all the great pictures James!
  created: '2007-02-01 15:37:47'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Thanks, James.
  created: '2007-02-01 16:16:13'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>the Clarendon type of the Besley foundry is indeed the first type actually
    designed as a \u2018related bold\u2019 \u2013 that is, made to harmonize in design
    and align with the roman types it was set with.</cite>\r\nSo does the original
    roman still exist that Clarendon was designed to match?"
  created: '2007-02-01 20:39:44'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<ul> <li><em>Does somebody know when the english term \u201Cblackletter\u201D
    appeared the first time?</em></li> </ul>\r\nWhat about 'whiteletter' referred
    to by Bringhurst?"
  created: '2007-02-02 02:04:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "James M, I don't think blackletter constitutes boldface in the sense we are
    discussing, as the style is unrelated to the plain roman. One might just as well
    say that Italic is light.\r\n\r\nBut your Clarendon example appears to determine
    the <em>fons et origo!</em>"
  created: '2007-02-02 07:16:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Blackletter nameplates for newspapers originated with the 1712 introduction
    of newspaper taxes in Britain, when the sudden increase in paper costs forced
    publishers to economize on the amount of space alloted to the title line, minimizing
    its type size and choosing the darkest type then available, which was blackletter.
    (John E Allen, <em>Newspaper Designing,</em> Harper, 1947).
  created: '2007-02-02 07:29:30'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "<em>So does the original roman still exist that Clarendon was designed to
    match?</em>\r\n\r\nDan, the Clarendon in that example from the Besley specimen
    is supposed to match the shape of and align with the roman it appears with. Not
    that closely, you may say (and I'd agree) but more so than a completely unrelated
    slab-serif. Incidentally, roman types of the 1840s were tending to become more
    compressed, which must be why the normal width of Clarendon looks condensed to
    us. The wide version of the type, a beautiful piece of type-making (presumably,
    like the Clarendon, the work of the house punchcutter Benjamin Fox, a partner
    in the Besley foundry) was recast from original matrices (or electros thereof)
    by Stephenson Blake in the 1950s under the name of <em>Consort.</em> \r\n\r\nI
    recall that this question of the 'related bold' was discussed in the original
    registration document for the Clarendon type in order to back up the foundry's
    argument that it was an original design. I can't currently put my hands on the
    text, so have been meaning for some time to go back to what we now call the National
    Archives and get a copy. I'll report back.\r\n\r\nAnd no, 'black letter' is not
    a 'related bold'. Sure is bold, though.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-02 07:48:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "As a style, Fatface predates Clarendon. \r\nWould not printers have combined
    Fatface with \"Regular\", for purposes of contrast?"
  created: '2007-02-02 07:54:27'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: ">James M, I don\u2019t think blackletter constitutes boldface in the sense
    we are discussing\u2026\r\n\r\nMaybe the term blackletter came from the textsetting
    apperance of (especially) Textura. The \"boldish\", even aka black apperance of
    the textblock on a page.\r\n\r\n>Except for this, from 1524, or is it just BIG?\r\nYes,
    i think"
  created: '2007-02-02 08:09:23'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "<em>Would not printers have combined Fatface with \u201CRegular\u201D, for
    purposes of contrast?</em>\r\n\r\nThat's totally logical. But I don't think they
    did, though. At least not in the same line. Maybe it's that matter of keeping
    the alignment, which is what the related bold should let you do. Note though that
    the Clarendon in my example has a larger x-height than the roman it accompanies,
    so the alignment has been contrived by casting it on the bigger body of the roman. "
  created: '2007-02-02 08:11:16'
- author:
    name: gerry_leonidas
    picture: 128150
  body: "A good essay on the development of Clarendons and their echo in later decades
    is on <a href=\"http://wiki.typefacedesign.org/matd/show/Mitja+Miklav\u010Di\u010D\">Mitja
    Miklav\u010Di\u010D's wiki page</a> (<a href=\"http://www.typefacedesign.org/resources/essay/MitjaMiclavcic_essay_scr.pdf\">direct
    link</a>). "
  created: '2007-02-02 09:54:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There is something uncanny about the way that the Clarendons resemble regular
    type that has been mechanically modified, as in a phototypositor era \"camera
    mod\" made by swelling a photographic image, or a digital era \"make parallel
    path/expand stroke\" command -- the notorious \"faux\" bold.\r\n\r\nWas there
    any 1840s technology that prompted this approach, a contemporary meme?\r\nPhotography,
    of course. Perhaps woodtype pantographic routing. Or something in stereotyping?\r\n\r\nThe
    development of shaded and outline fonts may have prompted this line of design
    development. Copperplate engraving had long ago produced the \"shorthand\" of
    monoline and outline lettering.\r\n\r\nAt any rate, Benjamin Fox must surely have
    imagined the outline of type, and then conceptualized an outer outline and filled
    the whole thing in mentally, if not in a sketch book, before punching his cuts.\r\n\r\nI
    don't believe that type designers of that day worked entirely at scale, they must
    have had sketches and larger working drawings to help the design process. Other
    than the famous mathematical drawings for L'Imprimerie Royale c.1700, do any such
    drawings or sketches exist?\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nI enjoyed Mitja Miklav\u010Di\u010D\u2019s
    essay, and this thread has been very educational, but I must confess that I am
    beginning to find type histories based on specimen books to be tasty appetizers
    that leave me hungry for a main course of \"real\" commercial use. "
  created: '2007-02-02 17:02:14'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<ul> <li><em>There is something uncanny about the way that the Clarendons
    resemble regular type that has been mechanically modified, as in a phototypositor
    era \u201Ccamera mod\u201D made by swelling a photographic image, or a digital
    era \u201Cmake parallel path/expand stroke\u201D command \u2014 the notorious
    \u201Cfaux\u201D bold.</em></li> </ul>\r\nHere is a good example. These designs
    seem closely related. However, it does not feel that the Egyptian design is based
    on a <em>mechanical</em> modification of the 'regular' (Modern). The 'beefing
    up' of the strokes looks rather sensible and thoughtful. Of course, the originals
    of the typefaces shown had been designed independently of each other: Bruce Foundry'\x92s
    \u2116 11, and Steven Shanks & Son\x92s Antique \u2116 3 (revived by Bitstream
    as De Vinne Text and Egyptian 410).[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mod_Egypt2f_3933.png]"
  created: '2007-02-03 00:02:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Maxim, your choice of Bitstream's reductive interpretation (i.e. with a minimum
    of BCPs) gives a very strong feeling of the \"mechanical\" relationship between
    the Scotch Modern and the Clarendon. Here is a stroked version of De Vinne:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Handgloves_4711.png]"
  created: '2007-02-03 02:31:20'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: So just to clarify, what exactly was the "regular" typeface used by the Besley
    foundry in that piracy notice?
  created: '2007-02-03 07:10:11'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "<em>So just to clarify, what exactly was the \u201Cregular\u201D typeface
    used by the Besley foundry in that piracy notice?</em>\r\n\r\nJust one of the
    Great Primer types of the Fann Street Foundry. (I should probably have used that
    alternative name rather than Besley's, since he was the 'Co' of Thorowgood & Co.
    when the Clarendon was registered in 1845. It becomes Besley & Co. when Thorowgood
    retired in 1849, the 'Co. this time being the punchcutter Benjamin Fox.) It seems
    to match one called Great Primer No. 5 in a Fann Street specimen issued in 1844,
    but looks earlier to me, and as I said is not a very good match for the condensed
    proportions of the Clarendon cast to align with its baseline.\r\n\r\nThe main
    point of this post is that I have looked out this image (albeit not brilliant
    quality) made from one of the Fann Street specimens of a showing of Clarendon
    used with roman, which explains the the foundry's usp, and I think is based on
    the original registration claim that I'll look up when I get the chance.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fann
    St - Clarendon Br 1 bw a 600_5140.jpg]"
  created: '2007-02-03 08:30:16'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Wow. Thanks. I wish I had access to stuff like that in Seattle...
  created: '2007-02-03 09:29:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Another \"new media\" theory for the design impetus towards Clarendons: it
    was prompted by smoother paper and finer printing drawing attention to the ink
    gain of the previous era. The Clarendon, therefore, was a cleaned-up, stylized
    interpretation of ink gain on deep-bite rag paper printing.\r\n\r\nMcLuhan's Third
    Law, Retrieval, in action. This states that new media brings obsolesced \"ground\"
    back as \"figure\", part of the new form. In other words, the bolding effect of
    ink gain wasn't considered as a design feature (more of a bug), until it was seen
    in comparison with the new finer images. Then, once it was recognized as such,
    it was exploited and developed into the Clarendon style.\r\n\r\nThe first Fourdrinier
    machines were installed in the 1800s in England, and these mechanically pulped
    and pressed recycled rags (wood pulp not being used till the second half of the
    century). Having seen some pretty poor paper (fragile, discoloured) in books from
    the first half of the 19th century -- but smooth -- I surmise that chemicals were
    used in the pulping then.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-03 18:27:28'
- author:
    name: Randolph Burke
    picture: 111910
  body: "Dear James\r\n\r\nI have always wondered where the lighter version of Consort
    comes from? If I remember the bold and the italic versions were drawn in the 1960s;
    they are very poor.\r\n\r\nSincerely,\r\nRandolph T. Burke"
  created: '2007-02-04 22:35:24'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "The light weight of <em>Consort</em>, an excellent type I think, was another
    Fann Street type of the 1840s or 1850s, and was presumably cut by Fox. It doesn't
    match the Clarendons closely, though, having unbracketed serifs.\r\n\r\nThe story
    of the bold and the italic is a rather sad one. They were made by H. Karl G\xF6rner,
    who was born in Germany in 1883, was taken on in 1907 as assistant punchcutter
    with Stephenson, Blake & Co., Sheffield and stayed with them for the rest of his
    life. He died in 1964. G\xF6rner was probably trained to cut steel punches, but
    the work I know about was cut in typemetal, and electrotypes were grown to make
    matrices for casting. This was quite a usual practice, in the UK and the US at
    least, from the later 19th century onwards. \r\n\r\nI was told that, years before,
    G\xF6rner had made the type that was thought up by Robert Harling and marketed
    by Stephenson Blake under the name of <em>Chisel</em>. He cast type from matrices
    for <em>Bold Latin Condensed</em> and incised lines into the face. When SB wanted
    a bold and an italic to complete the <em>Consort</em> series, G\xF6rner cast a
    bold slab-serif from some quite early matrices and pared it down to make <em>Consort
    Bold</em>. I don\u2019t know if he had a model for the italic. Probably not. I
    think they are awful types \u2013 travesties of the original cuttings of Clarendon.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-05 08:43:01'
date: '2007-01-31 16:56:40'
title: Where do bold typefaces come from?

---
