---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: "The type community has a variety of means for testing characters - pangrams,
  brute force testing, language based character frequency lists ( and words ), all
  of which are good, but I may have thought of another wrinkle. No doubt others have
  preceded me if it's a good idea (or perhaps it's a silly one), but in any event:
  \r\n\r\nWhat do you think of making a shared Unicode text file that has words made
  to highlight a glyph in use? It's purpose could extend to kerning etc but the emphasis
  I want to give the list is aesthtic and and to a certain extent cultural and linguistic.
  \r\n\r\nSo for example for C, I think Cancer & CANCER are quite good. These two
  forms of the word seem like an elegant and concise way of examining if you like
  the way the C & c in your font looks. For Cap W I think WAVE, Wave, LAWYER, Lawyer
  would be good ones to use. The idea being that when a glyph has cases where it fits
  well and also where it sometimes fits poorly ideally they should both be presented.
  It would probably be good to have 3-5 words in each case to allow for a variety
  of aesthetic issues and combinational issues like double letters, round vs. flat
  neighbor glyphs and position in the word as well. So for C again maybe we would
  have cc: (the contaction), PINOCCHIO, Pinocchio,  as well as a word with c At the
  end like ZINC, Zinc. And maybe one or two more.\r\n\r\nThe real reason I started
  thinking like this has nothing to do the glyphs used in English. Instead, I started
  thinking about this when I was looking at glyphs whose diacritics seemed especially
  aesthetically challenging because of their novelty. And what I wanted to see was
  a word that used them so I could start to build aesthetic context. Of course it
  would be good to have samples of the glyphs in use to look at too but what I want
  to have words which highlight the aesthetic concerns for glyphs like:  \u1E97, \u0165,
  \u01FB \u01FA and \u010F etc. Ideally someone from or well versed in the cuture
  or cultures that use the glyph would give the examples. \r\n\r\nLet me know if these
  last glyphs don't render for you. They were: latin small letter t with diaeresis,
  \ latin small letter t with caron, latin small letter a with ring above and acute,
  latin capital letter a with ring above and acute, and latin small letter d with
  caron.\r\n\r\nDoes something like this exist already? \r\n\r\nObviously there is
  \r\n\r\nhttp://diacritics.typo.cz/\r\nand \r\nhttp://diacritics.typo.cz/index.php?id=10\r\n\r\nWhich
  will continue to improve (and provide in-use examples) which is excellent!\r\n\r\nBut
  for the purposes of testing my fonts I would like to go further and have a text
  file like the one I have described as well!\r\n\r\nWhat do you think?"
comments:
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Tiffany Wardle mentioned that she tries setting her full name in the type
    as a test, not out of vanity, because it shows how the characters work. \r\n\r\nGeneralizing
    this, I find that a good aesthetic test is to set proper names in the type, perferably
    somebody you know and respect, either current or historical. \r\n\r\nSomehow the
    emotional weight of a proper name, and thinking of it on a letter head or sign
    makes the success or failure of the glyphs more obvious. "
  created: '2007-01-31 19:45:42'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Well it might be a little bit to do with vanity. :^/ But I always look for
    the double-f ligature as well as how the Ti and Wa have been kerned. If those
    three things are there it shows a certain level of attention to detail. IMHO
  created: '2007-01-31 20:39:40'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Those are interesting points!  I shall add Tiffany to my T and/or f lists!
    \r\n\r\nAny more?\r\n\r\nBill, Tiff: \r\n\r\nDoes my distinction re: aesthetics
    vs kerning value work for you or not really? Maybe I should rephrase. I thought
    the word 'cancer' was an excellent test word not just because it has a 'c' at
    the beginning & in the middle but because it does a good job of showing the 'c-ness'
    of the c's used in it. Perhaps I am just being odd.  "
  created: '2007-01-31 21:55:42'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "T\xF6\xF6t\xE4t\xE4 \u2013 to honk\r\nH\xE4m\xE4l\xE4inen \u2013 a finnish
    last name or a person from a certain area in Finland\r\nT\xE4n\xE4\xE4n\_\u2013
    today\r\nY\xF6 \u2013 night"
  created: '2007-01-31 22:03:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Well, I don't know. To me it's important to put a letter between both straight
    and round letters to see how it relates. You can use all kinds of words for the
    goal here, like 'rhythm' and 'color' and 'notan', but this is all about getting
    the letters to work together. To me there's an additional 'pizzaz' factor, which
    is that it doesn't only work, but brings some beauty or excitement or authority
    to the words. \r\n\r\nI switch back and forth between faces, comparing the same
    name in the Preview Panel in my typeface and in other type faces I admire. This
    is a humbling experience!  When mine starts to look better to me, in some respects
    anyway, I figure I'm getting somewhere.  "
  created: '2007-01-31 22:09:03'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Wow! Thank you!\r\n\r\nCan you tell me about these words? \r\n\r\nAre there
    Words with \xF6 as the 1st letter? The last? These would be Suomi( Finnish ) words.
    Correct?\r\n\r\nBTW, Anybody can have a copy of this doc when I am done making
    it or take it to modify for their own use. "
  created: '2007-01-31 22:09:28'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Veist\xE4m\xF6 \u2013 carving workshop or something like that\r\n\xD6yl\xE4tti
    - I don\u2019t know what this means but I\u2019m pretty sure it\u2019s a word\u2026
    :^)\r\n\xC4\xE4nest\xE4\xE4 - to vote\r\n\r\nAnd yes, these are Finnish. So that
    was the learn a word of Finnish this week.\r\n\r\nEdit: Yes, \xF6yl\xE4tti is
    a word. It means a host as in (from Wikipedia) A host is a thin, round wafer made
    from bread and used for Holy Communion in many Christian churches.\r\n\r\nilmi\xF6
    - phenomenon\r\n\u0161akki - chess"
  created: '2007-01-31 22:31:53'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Awesome! Your the best Lari!\r\n\r\nBTW - I Found a way to use Wikipedia
    to help me. Not as Good as having Lari's direct insight  of course but...\r\n\r\nFor
    A breve I found : c\u0103ciul\u0103 . I don't know what it means yet, but bit
    by bit. Now to find a Cap A breve word.\r\n\r\nLari, do you speak other languages
    too?  Besides English obviously! ;-) "
  created: '2007-01-31 22:35:43'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: Well, yes.  I speak Swedish and German. Why?
  created: '2007-01-31 22:40:28'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "\u2026 :^O\r\n\r\n\xC5bo \u2013 the swedish name of Turku\r\nUle\xE5borg
    \u2013\_the swedish name of Oulu\r\n\xDCber\r\n\r\nGenerally fonts don\u2019t
    look as good when you set Finnish with them compared to English. Finnish sentences
    contain long words and the words contain lots of double consonants. Plus many
    finnish words are really boring, like koko (size/whole). Maybe they could be fixed
    with alternate glyphs that were almost identical but not quite."
  created: '2007-01-31 22:59:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I see you got me already. I was just writing: 'I was wondering is you have
    aesthetic favorite words that use: double s/eszet. Or Aring /\xC5 ... and so on.'\r\n\r\nBTW
    - Would you have any use for this document I am making?\r\n\r\nI am keen on making
    fonts that have nice diacritics and vary their glyphs in the way you describe.
    \r\n"
  created: '2007-01-31 23:05:06'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Schai\xDFe, of course.\r\nAlso, Spa\xDF, Stra\xDFenbahn, Schlafm\xFCtze.\r\n\r\nYes,
    I\u2019d like to get your finished document. I love to have a need for it soon,
    that is get some of my duhsigns into Fontlab and polished.\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s great
    that you\u2019re interested in this. Some otherwise usable fonts have bad umlauts."
  created: '2007-01-31 23:23:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Would you mind having a look at a monospace in PDF to comment on some umlauts?
    Oddly enough I was just working on them. Now it's the Macrons.\r\n\r\nI will send
    it to you then. I have no idea how long it will take to do - maybe a year. But
    if you don't mind I'll send you beta versions for comment."
  created: '2007-01-31 23:39:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There was I thread I started a year or 2 ago regarding very long German words
    and Czech words with few vowels. Several Typophilers including some of our Finn
    members contributed some wonderful vowel-rich long words. Lari and Mili were part
    of it. I have to think of some good search words to find it.\r\n\r\nEben, I think
    different language text really helps. Itallian is very rhythmic and even while
    the CE countries texts are much more likelyto be incluusive of typographic kerning
    issues. I use both in testing (among others).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-01 00:51:01'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I will have to look for that thread. Thanks for your comments! \r\n\r\nI
    will keep watching this thread for pointers from my fellows here and then begin
    making the document next week. "
  created: '2007-02-01 01:18:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben,\r\nThe following is some silly text which I wrote in 2004 to test my
    first text face. I don't know that you would call it aesthetic but perhaps just
    silly. I was just trying to think of words with certain letter combinations and
    then just free associated stream of conciousness bable.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n________\r\n\r\nRainy
    Days and Sundays always get Quaint affluent Taffy vendors officiating Quid pro
    quo an aggast angler drew his rod and rheeled in a big fish therefore no bread
    was had by anyone save for the birds of prey who were polluting where they may
    willy-nilly down the road of life from now until the hereafter fun fascia fell
    fondled from here to eternity many may mourn her passage though. \u201CLord Save
    us!\u201D she said. Hath no women scorned been here to see the debackle? Rally
    Round the Flag Boys and quit calling me sweetheart before I plant you perminently
    in the Petunias Portnoy!\r\n\r\nRed Roses Rested Religiously as Ghosts of Christmas
    Past Paddled Saucy Sail Boats. What Wretch is this when Giddy School Girls Blossom
    Eating Fowl from a farthing\u2019s fling. God save King John"
  created: '2007-02-01 01:23:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben,\r\nHere is that link from last year that I told you about:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/21117\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-01 01:55:31'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thank you & Thank you! \r\n\r\nI like your free associations & pangramic
    style. If this I am making is good there is reason it should not be a bit poetic.
    Thanks for reminding me of that!"
  created: '2007-02-01 02:55:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Some otherwise usable fonts have bad umlauts.\r\n\r\nSince Finnish seems
    to give umlauts the biggest work-outs, I'd be interested in what you think makes
    for bad and good umlauts. Could you give some examples and say what you think
    is good and bad about them?"
  created: '2007-02-01 03:46:47'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "Maybe helpful \u2013 some words in german with umlauts.\r\n\r\nT\xE4ler.
    T\xF6ten. T\xFCcher. | T\xE4; T\xF6; T\xFC\r\nW\xE4hrend. W\xF6rter. W\xFCnsche.
    | W\xE4; W\xF6; W\xFC \r\nR\xE4keln. R\xF6hre. R\xFCssel. | R\xE4; R\xF6; R\xFC\r\nG\xE4nse.
    G\xF6nner. G\xFCter. | G\xE4; G\xF6; G\xFC\r\nS\xE4mig. S\xF6ren. S\xFCmpfe. |
    S\xE4; S\xF6; S\xFC\r\nL\xE4cheln. L\xF6schen. L\xFCstern. | L\xE4; L\xF6; L\xFC\r\n\xC4nderung,
    \xD6sterreich. \xDCppig. | \xC4; \xD6; \xDC \r\n\r\n> bad umlauts\r\nI'm interested
    in your examples also"
  created: '2007-02-01 06:49:05'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: It's not that the umlauts are good or bad - it's their form that is less or
    more ideal I suspect. Bad looking umlauts would be interesting. And good looking
    ones too.
  created: '2007-02-01 07:56:05'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Note that these are just my personal opinions. This is no way the worst umlauts
    ever list, I just randomly browsed my library for examples. Also, I\u2019m no
    font designer.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture1_6333.png]\r\nThe
    lower case umlauts look too big, the letters cannot carry them so to speak. Compare
    to Helvetica:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture7_3904.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture2_3665.png]\r\nI
    personally don\u2019t like umlauts that are so close to the letter. (Upper case.)
    Though Meta\u2019s umlauts are big, I think the letters can handle them quite
    nicely.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture3_6735.png]\r\nAlmost
    perfect.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture5_6268.png]\r\nThese
    are nice, too. I write umlauts like this myself, two vertical lines. Some people
    write one horizontal.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture6_6295.png]\r\nThese
    should be moved just a bit to the right. This is something I notice relatively
    often."
  created: '2007-02-01 16:38:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks so much Lari! I haven't seen such a comparison and analysis anywhere
    else, so it's really helpful. \r\n\r\nOne more issue, which I raised in another
    thread, concerns the height of the single dot--over the i and j--compared to the
    umlaut. Do you see any fonts with higher i dots than umlauts, and that work? In
    the font I am working on, Caslon, it traditionally has rather high dots on the
    i and j. Currently I have the umlauts smaller and lower. Have you seen this work,
    or only with all the same height?  "
  created: '2007-02-01 16:45:44'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "William --\r\n\r\nWhitman's dieresis is smaller and lower than the dot on
    the i. I don't think this is uncommon. \r\n\r\nOne of the first magazines to adopt
    Whitman as part of their type palette (alongside Relay) was the Finnish magazine
    <I>Trendi</I>. The art director told me in an e-mail \"Whitman seems to tackle
    the strange Finnish language very well.\" So, I can only assume that the relation
    of the i-dot and the dieresis characters is acceptable. \r\n\r\n-- Kent.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-02 12:51:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Whitman does far more than the acceptable, it is flat out gorgeous!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-02 13:26:50'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "One font where the umlauts are, in my opinion, in a totally wrong place.
    \r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/29532"
  created: '2007-02-02 14:26:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mili, can you explain why the umlauts are so wrong in that face? I am just
    reying to make sure I do them correctly in my own typeface designs and don't make
    the same mistake.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-02 14:37:24'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: I mean the one in all caps with the umlauts "embedded" in the font, so that
    the A part looks smaller than the rest of the letters. I just find it ugly and
    difficult to read.
  created: '2007-02-02 14:46:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mili, would you mind if I sent you samples of my typefaces in Finnish to
    look at and see if my diacritics are correct?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-02 15:05:15'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: Not at all, Chris. Remember, though, I'm not a type designer, just interested
    in type.
  created: '2007-02-02 15:29:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Mili. That is exactly what I need, a users eye--and one well aquainted
    with reading Finnish glyphs :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-02 15:35:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hi Kent, great to see you on typophile once again. I only see the diaresis
    a bit on the PDF on your personal site. There it seems that the i dot is only
    slightly higher than the dieresis. What I do notice especially is that you've
    given a comfortable amount of 'air' between the letters and the dieresis. As excessive
    tightness is one of the 'bad' features that Lari illustrated, perhaps this is
    what the Finns liked about your handling of the dieresis or umlaut. At any rate,
    with your example and  the Meta regular weight, I have a pretty good idea of where
    to go. \r\n\r\nThanks!   "
  created: '2007-02-02 16:07:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Mili, would you comment on these umlauts?\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/29761\r\n\r\nLooking
    at your comments I wonder if I should alter mine. \r\n\r\nThanks!"
  created: '2007-02-02 21:55:31'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I'm late to the party, but I have to say I use my name not out of vanity,
    but because I have a good solid idea of what it should look like  virtually any
    face, even if I've never seen it before. More precisely, in a new face, I can
    tell instantly if it looks like it should more quickly than just about any other
    phrase.\r\n\r\nAnother trick is, how does the font's name look? If that doesn't
    look right, either the name or the characters are all wrong."
  created: '2007-02-03 00:21:11'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Eben, Mili was talking about the umlauts in the all caps section. The treatment
    Mili showed is quite common in low res matrix screens, unfortunately.\r\n\r\nWilliam,
    I don\u2019t think the dots have to be strictly aligned.\r\n\r\nAnother annoying
    but thankfully not common way is placing the umlauts under the x height. Like
    this:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture4_4965.png]\r\n\r\nIt would be
    very nice to have some one named Erik Spiekermann to share their views."
  created: '2007-02-03 00:46:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: There is always going to be a tension for screen type about how much x & cap
    height you carve out vs how much space is left for diacritics. Aringacute is a
    killer.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "Isn't that only as long as screen resolution is far poorer than print?
      I keep hearing about electronic ink, IBM's advances in scree resolution, and
      other technology, though little has come to market yet. But, supposing the mass
      market gets 300+ dpi and higher screens, won't that make things even?\r\n\r\nI
      know that there is nothing like the present, but it seems that all the hinting
      in the world is possibly just a stopgap."
    created: '2007-02-03 03:19:03'
  created: '2007-02-03 01:00:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "It is a stop-gap in some sense yes, to be sure. I see your point I think.
    More rez more subtlty and less being forced. That's true up to a point. But even
    if you magically get a device with greater rez than paper - ( say what? - it's
    just an agrgument - hang in there ) the deeper tension between elements is going
    to remain. 300+dpi can't make things 'even'. Why? \r\n\r\nIf you know your going
    to carry umlauts in your design it's good to know that from the beginning. If
    you have a Finnish audience in mind specifically then it's good to know that too.
    And so on. Think about this : it has been noted that type made for german looks
    better in german & type made for latin in latin. It's true. There are real reasons
    for this. Lots of them. All the little details! They all interact. Plus the pattens
    and habits seen in the language/s supported must be factored in and in that a
    balance has to be struck. So type made specifically for say Danish if it's well
    made will express itself in the context of Danish needs and priorities and will
    look and 'act' differently than one made for English. That is why you have to
    design for a specific set of circumstances every time. \r\n\r\nThink about a custom
    shoe vs a really well designed shoe made for the masses. They will both have alot
    in common, and might both be plenty good but if the level of quality is the same
    something made to fit youspecifically will always 'suit you' better."
  created: '2007-02-03 03:45:35'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "Yes Eben, so true.\r\n\r\nThat is one handicap of the international market,
    the typedesigners try to design new faces that fit the bill for all markets. \r\nExample,
    i have to reduce the wordspacing in \"nearly every\" typeface coming from e.g.
    GB or USA, when it comes to textsetting in german language. Wordspacing would
    be \"correct\" for english or french generally, but not for german. Ok, this is
    no big thing, but it has to be made.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-03 11:06:12'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">Wordspacing would be \u201Ccorrect\u201D for english or french generally,
    but not for german. \r\n\r\nIs this because the capital letters need more space
    before them? Or is because German words are longer?"
  created: '2007-02-03 13:08:33'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "if you need any more german words with umlauts, give a shout - i could make
    poms list a bit longer if needed. though not with eszetts, because in switzerland
    we dont use that glyph (even when writing books in high german - its out of use
    here).\r\n\r\nif you make a long s, make extended kerning tests, it often sucks
    from what i've seen (altough i dont know many people who'd use a long s in anything
    than a blackscript).\r\n\r\nas said, Chuchich\xE4schtli can be a real killer.
    \xD6strogen could be a nice test, too (its the main female hormone). or \xD6nologie,
    the science of wines."
  created: '2007-02-03 14:26:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "What is 'Poms List'?\r\n\r\nThanks for additional test words! Do you have
    words where \xD6 is doubled? What about where it appears at the end of a word?
    Is suspect the answer is no but...\r\n\r\nSince you guys know what I am talking
    about I would love to hear what accomodations you may habe noticed or made to
    better intergrate dicritics of various kinds. The other things is that when I
    was working on some for my latest font the method I used was to try to center
    the marks on each other to some degree. The dot on the i is the 'exception'. Would
    you let me know what you think of this attached example? I should note that it's
    a monospace. Please feel free to tell me if you think it's all wrong. But if so
    please also say how you would correct it!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/diacritics_4811.gif]\r\n\r\n<cite>
    Or is because German words are longer? </cite>\r\n\r\nDoes it also have to do
    with Caps being too dark/heavy in US & UK designed fonts for german setting? I
    need to get caught up on modern german typesetting.\r\n\r\nWhat kind of relation
    does the presence of many diacritics in a language have to the ideal length of
    descenders/ascenders ?"
  created: '2007-02-03 19:02:52'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "@Dan\r\n>Is this because the capital letters need more space before them?
    Or is because German words are longer?\r\nHm, less space, because it is more easy
    to separate words. \r\nLonger german words - yes, you can add this.\r\n\r\n#\r\n\r\nFor
    non-german speakers \u2013 a nonsense text; \"Wortberge\" (what is Blindtext called
    in english?) to get an \"original feel\" for the \"rhythm of german\". Maybe you
    should add an text out of the medical, technical, science field to get the feeling
    for the real long words .\r\n\r\nhttp://www.newmediadesigner.de/\r\nBlindtexte\r\nWortberge\r\n\r\n#\r\n\r\n@Eben\r\nI
    brought the list because i thought i could be interesting to see caps followed
    by an umlaut in real words. Maybe an kerning issue, too.\r\n\r\n>Do you have words
    where \xD6 is doubled?\r\nI think there is no doubled umlaut, i don't remember\r\n\r\n>umlaut
    at the end\r\nMalm\xF6 ist eine Stadt in Schweden. (Malm\xF6 is a swedish city.)\r\n\r\n>Does
    it also have to do with Caps being too dark/heavy in US & UK designed fonts for
    german setting?\r\nDo you mean something like Caslon?"
  created: '2007-02-03 21:00:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "A couple of years ago:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/9373\r\n\r\nNow, I think
    the solution may be to do an OpenType font with a \"German Caps with Lowered Umlauts\"
    stylistic set."
  created: '2007-02-03 21:13:17'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Interi\xF6\xF6ri, milj\xF6\xF6\u2026 not exactly traditional finnish words
    but\u2026\r\n\r\nThere are lots of words that end with \xF6.\r\n\r\nI think your
    diaresis could be heavier but the aring looks splendid! How does the cap look
    like?"
  created: '2007-02-03 21:43:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You hav't tell what those 2 beauts mean Lari!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: tgoncalves
    body: yes please do
    created: '2013-08-06 13:12:44'
  created: '2007-02-03 21:46:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Eben, the zdot will appear in Polish close to i in quite a few words, so
    IMO it looks like a mistake to have it lower than the i dot. And when you get
    into Celtic....\r\n\r\nAs a principle, I'd say it's OK to have umlaut dot accents
    a tad lower than the i dot, if they're also smaller, and because they're two of
    them. But really, the dot on the eye IS an accent (note Turkish), so it should
    be treated consistently."
  created: '2007-02-03 21:57:31'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "eben: \"poms list\" is the list of german words by the user \"poms\" earlier
    in this thread. and as he notes, i cant think of any german words ending with
    an \xF6 or having two \xF6's after each other. i could probably find a swiss german
    word doing it, but swiss german is only written in emails and sms, otherwhise
    it only gets used while talking. but if we write swiss german, we use lots of
    umlauts."
  created: '2007-02-03 22:13:48'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Oh, they\u2019re quite boring, interior and milieu. There are completely
    finnish words to be used instead of these. \xD6land, an island is Sweden is known
    as \xD6\xF6lanti in Finland. Also the err, am(?), well equivalent is \xF6\xF6,
    with the exception that the Finnish \xF6\xF6 can last several seconds, if you
    don\u2019t know what to say. K\xF6\xF6ri \u2248 gang (as in the gang that sometimes
    ids faces around here)."
  created: '2007-02-03 22:17:53'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "Turkish is an important \"umlaut language\" also. \xDCnl\xFC, G\xFCl and
    such. In Germany there live some million people with turkish heritage or being
    turkish. Not so unimportant.\r\nWhat a nice thread :) \u2013 \xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6\xF6"
  created: '2007-02-03 22:32:46'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "William --\r\n\r\nFor what it's worth, here are two random Finnish excerpts
    in Whitman. The first is from a horoscope (Aries, back in Dec 2003). The second
    is an instruction from a recipe (for something called Hunajaiset juuresnyytit).
    I don't speak a lick of Finnish, so I haven't the foggiest clue what these samples
    say. I chose them for the <em>p\xE4iv\xE4j\xE4rjestyksest\xE4</em>, <em>neli\xF6ita</em>,
    and <em>folioneli\xF6iden</em>.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Whitman_Finnish_6219.gif]\r\n\r\n--
    K."
  created: '2007-02-03 22:59:26'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "@ Kentlew:\r\nHere's the rough translaton:\r\nChristmas time is all go, so
    don't leave important tasks till last minute. Your sleepy season is about to end.
    The more thorough you were in clearing unimportant issues from your agenda since
    Summer, the clearer start you'll have for the New Year.\r\n\r\nCut foil into squares
    (about 30 x 30) and then divide the vegetable ragout on the squares.\r\n\r\nThe
    final word p\xE4\xE4lle should have two ls\r\n\r\n@Eben:\r\n\r\nI just had a look
    at your Software Developer, and I like it. Maybe the umlauts could be a bit closer
    to each other? Personally I don't like them too far apart."
  created: '2007-02-06 21:48:06'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Nick, Thanks for the hints on the dot accent! \r\n\r\nMili, Thierry Poms
    & Lari : Thanks also.\r\n\r\nAll: I should have a new round of txt docs with example
    words for the 'brute force testing thread' and this one in the next week or so. "
  created: '2007-02-06 22:39:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks, Kent. That shows the relationships of the i and umlauts very well.
    I''ll play with mine to get that kind of relationship between height above the
    letters and weight, though mine''ll have to be different as the design has a quite
    different feel.  '
  created: '2007-02-06 22:50:08'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: Eben, perhaps a good test file for each character, based off this thread's
    responses, could be added to diacritics.typo.cz?
  created: '2007-02-07 05:23:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Sure. Sounds good. If they want it there. I was keen to make it because it
    wasn't there yet. :-)\r\n\r\nKent: That was wicked awesome!"
  created: '2007-02-07 07:34:11'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Another test word, very difficult to space:\r\n\r\nlyxvilla =  luxury villa
    in Swedish\r\n\r\nRecommended by Gerard Unger."
  created: '2007-02-07 10:48:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Difficult to space and impossible to afford :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-07 13:47:07'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I was thinking about this a bit more - and thinking about organizing principles.
    \r\n\r\nOriginally I thought I would organize the examples around letters laid
    out in a TIRO like sequence a, and then acute, and all the lc a examples, and
    then b. This still seems okay to me. \r\n\r\nBut then I thought about doing it
    my language. Then there would be either one giant list or many small lists. Or
    both. The idea there would be to allow you select a language or a series to support
    rather than making you wade through all 60 kinds of lc a+accent combos. \r\n\r\nThere
    is 3rd way as well the diacritics.typo.cz way which is to organize around the
    diacritic itself: \r\n\r\nAcute\r\nBar\r\nBreve\r\nCedilla\r\nCircumflex\r\nComma
    Accent\r\nDiaeresis / Umlaut\r\nDot Accent\r\nDouble Acute\r\nGrave\r\nH\xE1\u010Dek
    (Caron)\r\n\r\netc.\r\n\r\nThe problem I saw with that is that it doesn't give
    equal billing to the eth for instance. \r\n\r\nSo I am starting to lean towards
    the language centered model. It ties in nicely with pages like this:\r\n\r\nhttp://diacritics.typo.cz/index.php?id=32\r\n\r\nBut
    really, I wonder what you think would be most useful to your own font development
    process. How do you prefer to organize your work & thoughts? What would be most
    helpful to you?"
  created: '2007-02-07 17:23:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I tend to think by language makes the most sense. There are glyph combinations
    that are common in one language and rare in another. If you compare Finnish and
    Czech, you get a wholesale change. French, Spanish, and Italian are not that much
    different. Icelandic has a unique look. In the CE languages, It is not just the
    coloration created by the heavy use of diacritics, but the clustering of asenders
    and the frequency of glyph pairings not typical to romance languages. Italian
    feels rounder and softer with so many vowels compared to the heavier use of angled
    glyphs in Slovak or Polish.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-07 18:02:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I came across a site last year that has the story of the Tower of Babel in
    many languages. I will look it up when I get home but you can just as easily Google
    for it (which is how I found it).\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: I found it, here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.omniglot.com/babel/index.htm"
  created: '2007-02-07 18:04:50'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Cris, good point -  I like it. I think I am pretty much convinced. Doing
    this by langauge also parcels out the work a bit which is nice. I think language
    centered it is.\r\n\r\nIf anybody disagrees or has a counter arguement, I hope
    you post soon! \r\n\r\nI think I'll do one in English 1st & then maybe Mili (
    and others?) will help me do the finnish & so on. Come to that is anybody willing
    to help me with the english? Once I have an testbed done as an example does anybody
    want to claim a language to do? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-07 18:59:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am with you Eben.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-07 19:51:27'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Language specific glyph tests : English \r\nVersion 0.01\r\nDate: Feb 7 2007\r\nLast
    editor: Eben Sorkin\r\n\r\n******************\r\nFONT DEVELOPERS: FEEL FREE TO
    TRIM THESE NOTES OFF\r\n\r\nNotes to those adding to or correcting this document:
    Aesthtics, Frequency and\r\nDifficulty should be considered when adding to this
    document. \r\n\r\nGlyphs covered in this document include:\r\n\r\nABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ\r\nabcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz
    \r\n\r\nalso \r\n\r\n\xC2\xC0\xC4\xC6\xCA\xC8\xD1\xD9\xD4\xCF\xC7\r\n\xE2\xE0\xE4\xE6\xEA\xE8\xF1\xF9\xF4\xEF\xE7\r\n\r\nPattern:\r\n\r\nFor
    glyphs which are not puctuation the pattern to be used (when possible) is as follows:\r\n1
    word with the glyph as the 1st character, 1 word with the glyph as the last, 1
    word \r\nwith the glyph doubled. Each word is presented in lower case, Inish Caps,
    and ALL CAPS. \r\nAdditional variations may be included at the discretion of the
    editor, but these should \r\nfollow the core sample pattern.\r\n\r\nIf a pangrams
    can beadded at the end with or without notes and or translation. \r\n\r\nIf possible
    typical/common puctuation such as those for ordering, money, weights etc. \r\nwould
    be good to include as well.\r\n\t\r\nThanks to : http://www.eki.ee, diacritics.typo.cz,
    wikipedia.org and typophile.com \r\n\r\n******************\r\nAa\r\napple, Apple,
    APPLE, napa, Napa, NAPA, aah, Aah, AAH, baathist, Baathist, BAATHIST,\r\n\r\nBb\r\nbeanpole,
    Beanpole, BEANPOLE, nib, Nib, NIB, babble, Babble, BABBLE,\r\n\r\nCc\r\ncancer,
    Cancer, CANCER, vaccine, Vaccine, VACCINE, cachectic, Cachectic, CACHECTIC,"
  created: '2007-02-07 20:29:39'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'That is my rough start. Comments? '
  created: '2007-02-07 20:31:16'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: Seems clear enough, Eben. I can help you with the Finnish. Would you prefer
    short or long words, or perhaps a mixture?
  created: '2007-02-07 20:37:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Apple, 'Apple, Napa\" Napa' (Apple Napa) etc. ?\r\n\r\nPuntuation test?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-07 20:40:36'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I was going for a mix because English uses short & medium length words in
    typical use. In contrast, the German version of this document should have short
    medium & long I think. \r\n\r\nBecause English includes 'loanwords' like doppelg\xE4nger
    and P\xE2t\xE9 that are used with accents I included accents too but I have separated
    towards the end them because they are atypical.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately I don't have
    the abreviations and punctuation examples in place yet.\r\n\r\nI was thinking
    one sample per common/major puntuation glyph: \r\n\r\n. - Hello.\r\n? - How are
    you?\r\n, - I am fine, how are you?\r\n; - I was fine before; and now I am fine
    too.\r\n ! - What a silly conversation!\r\n' - 'What a silly conversation'?\r\n\"
    - Yesterday he said \"I don't know what you mean by 'What a silly conversation'
    can you explain?\".\r\n\r\n(I need to add curly quotes as well)\r\n\r\n() - How
    can you say ( cough, cough) 'What a silly conversation!'?\r\n& - It's just what
    Bob & Alice say all the time.\r\n# - And write with their #3 pencil I might add.\r\n*
    - # three* *= Sometimes Number is writter as #. \r\n\r\nThat kind of thing.\r\n\r\nI
    would also like to have things like 'lbs. , St. (street), St (Saint) but the truth
    is I haven't looked into it in enough detail. Also I am not as sure that breaking
    that by langauge is the right way to do it. It might be better to have examples
    and list where they are used. For instance US & UK standard for this stuff vary
    I expect.\r\n\r\nMili do you want to start right away or wait until we have all
    vetted an english template?\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-07 21:57:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>Puntuation test?</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, that's why I posted it. No doubt
    there may be better words, better ways or organizing them and even missed examples
    that aught to be included. What do you think Chris? Are you sggesting working
    a puctuation test in as well? I think that might be too much visual info in one
    go to be helpful. But maybe not. What do you all think? "
  created: '2007-02-07 22:00:55'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: Eben, I'm going to start thinking about the words in a bus on my way to a
    meeting today, but please don't expect immediate results. I'm rather busy at the
    moment.
  created: '2007-02-08 07:12:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I am grateful for all your help already. Anything additional will be a bonus
    whenever that is. Thanks!
  created: '2007-02-08 07:21:08'
- author:
    name: barbara_emanuel
    picture: 110106
  body: "Some words in portuguese:\r\n\r\nconseq\xFC\xEAncia \r\narg\xFCi\xE7\xE3o\r\nmon\xE7\xF5es\r\npinh\xE3o\r\ncoelhinho"
  created: '2007-02-08 11:43:17'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Like this?\r\n\r\n\xC4\xE4\r\n\xE4\xE4nitt\xE4\xE4, \xC4\xE4nitt\xE4\xE4,
    \xC4\xC4NITT\xC4\xC4 (three in one!)\r\n\xE4iti, \xC4iti, \xC4ITI; mik\xE4, Mik\xE4,
    MIK\xC4 or s\xE4\xE4, S\xE4\xE4, S\xC4\xC4; s\xE4\xE4ti\xF6, S\xE4\xE4ti\xF6,
    S\xC4\xC4TI\xD6\r\n\r\n\xD6\xF6\r\n\xF6ky, \xD6ky, \xD6KY; keski\xF6, Keski\xF6,
    KESKI\xD6 or y\xF6, Y\xF6, Y\xD6; s\xF6\xF6tti, S\xF6\xF6tti, S\xD6\xD6TTI\r\n\r\nS\xF6\xF6tti
    and \xF6ky should probably be replaced with better words. That \xD6\xF6lanti,
    maybe."
  created: '2007-02-08 12:37:50'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Lari, I've got also \xE4\xE4li\xF6, m\xE4\xE4ki\xE4, k\xE4ym\xE4l\xE4, \xF6yl\xE4tti,
    t\xF6\xF6l\xF6 and kylmi\xF6 on my list now. \r\n\r\nProblems with doubles and
    endings with B, C, F, G (aggressiivinen and grilli are in), H (hohhoijaa? not
    really a word), J, K and M (last letter missing), Q (completely empy), V (end
    missing), W (only Wirtanen...), X and Z (empty), \xC5 (double and end)\r\n\r\nMost
    of the missing cases mentioned above are either extremely rare in Finnish or nonexistent.\r\n\r\nAll
    the other letters have been thought about but not yet typed"
  created: '2007-02-08 13:15:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Finnish looks like so much fun! It just makes you smile to look at it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-08 13:30:39'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "Sinebrychoff, puffi, Zacharius\u2026 this is hard. Proper words that end
    in consonants are rare. L, N and S (T with plurals) are the only ones I can think
    of right now. B, C, F, Q, W, X, Z and \xC5 are not even part of the ye olde finnish
    alphabet, that is there are no words other than those borrowed from other languages
    that have them."
  created: '2007-02-08 14:13:34'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Well, here's one version of the Finnish:\r\n\r\nA\r\nahven, Ahven, AHVEN
    \r\nmaalaaja, Maalaaja, MAALAAJA\r\nkukka, Kukka, KUKKA\r\nB\r\nblini, Blini,
    BLINI\r\nabba, Abba, ABBA\r\n\r\nC\r\ncelcius, Celcius, CELCIUS\r\nD\r\nderivaatta,
    Derivaatta, DERIVAATTA\r\nE\r\net\xE4ty\xF6, Et\xE4ty\xF6, ET\xC4TY\xD6\r\nteepannu,
    Teepannu, TEEPANNU\r\nkalle, Kalle, KALLE\r\nF\r\nfoliorulla, Foliorulla, FOLIORULLA\r\npuffi,
    Puffi, PUFFI\r\nsinebrychoff, Sinebrychoff, SINEBRYCHOFF\r\nG\r\ngrilli, Grilli,
    GRILLI\r\naggressiivinen, Aggressiivinen, AGGRESSIIVINEN\r\n\r\nH\r\nh\xE4nt\xE4,
    H\xE4nt\xE4, H\xC4NT\xC4\r\nhihhuli Hihhuli HIHHULI\r\np\xF6h, P\xF6h, P\xD6H\r\nI\r\niilimato,
    Iilimato, IILIMATO\r\npiim\xE4, Piim\xE4, PIIM\xC4\r\ntalvikki, Talvikki, TALVIKKI\r\nJ\r\njalopeura,
    Jalopeura, JALOPEURA\r\nkaija, Kaija, KAIJA\r\n\r\nK\r\nkuorma-auto, Kuorma-auto,
    KUORMA-AUTO\r\npakkanen, Pakkanen, PAKKANEN\r\n\r\nL\r\nlainelauta, Lainelauta,
    LAINELAUTA\r\nmollukka, Molukka, MOLLUKKA\r\nsammal, Sammal, SAMMAL\r\nM\r\nm\xE4rehtij\xE4,
    M\xE4rehtij\xE4, M\xC4REHTIJ\xC4\r\nm\xE4mmi, M\xE4mmi, M\xC4MMI \r\n\r\nN\r\nnen\xE4liina,
    Nen\xE4liina, NEN\xC4LIINA\r\npannukakku, Pannukakku, PANNUKAKKU\r\np\xF6rri\xE4inen,
    P\xF6rri\xE4inen, P\xD6RRI\xC4INEN\r\nO\r\nohjauspy\xF6r\xE4, Ohjauspy\xF6r\xE4,
    OHJAUSPY\xD6R\xC4\r\nsoosi, Soosi, SOOSI\r\nvalvomo, Valvomo, VALVOMO\r\nP\r\np\xE4\xE4ministeri,
    P\xE4\xE4ministeri, P\xC4\xC4MINISTERI\r\noppipoika, Oppipoika, OPPIPOIKA\r\nQ\r\nR\r\nraitiovaunu,
    Raitiovaunu, RAITIOVAUNU\r\nparrasvalo, Parrasvalo, PARRASVALO\r\ntyt\xE4r, Tyt\xE4r,
    TYT\xC4R\r\nS\r\nsammakko, Sammakko, SAMMAKKO\r\nkassi, Kassi, KASSI\r\nvatsakas,
    Vatsakas, VATSAKAS\r\nT\r\nt\xE4htivy\xF6, T\xE4htivy\xF6, T\xC4HTIVY\xD6\r\np\xE4\xE4tt\xE4j\xE4iset,
    P\xE4\xE4tt\xE4j\xE4iset, P\xC4\xC4TT\xC4J\xC4ISET\r\nh\xF6lm\xF6t, H\xF6lm\xF6t,
    H\xD6LM\xD6T\r\nU\r\nuimakoulu, Uimakoulu, UIMAKOULU\r\nmuuttua, Muuttua, MUUTTUA
    or kuu-uutinen, Kuu-uutinen, KUU-UUTINEN\r\nalmu, Almu, ALMU\r\nV\r\nvilkkuva,
    Vilkkuva, VILKKUVA\r\n\r\nW\r\nwirtanen, Wirtanen, WIRTANEN\r\n\r\nX\r\nY\r\nyrj\xE4n\xE4,
    Yrj\xE4n\xE4, YRJ\xC4N\xC4\r\npyynikki, Pyynikki, PYYNIKKI\r\nhyppy, Hyppy, HYPPY\r\nZ\r\nzacharias,
    Zacharias, ZACHARIAS\r\n\r\n\xC5\r\n\xE5land, \xC5land, \xC5LAND\r\n\r\n\xC4\r\n\xE4iti,
    \xC4iti, \xC4ITI\r\nm\xE4\xE4ki\xE4, M\xE4\xE4ki\xE4, M\xC4\xC4KI\xC4\r\np\xE4hkin\xE4,
    P\xE4hkin\xE4, P\xC4HKIN\xC4\r\n\xD6\r\n\xF6yl\xE4tti, \xD6yl\xE4tti, \xD6YL\xC4TTI\r\nt\xF6\xF6l\xF6,
    T\xF6\xF6l\xF6, T\xD6\xD6L\xD6\r\nkylmi\xF6, Kylmi\xF6, KYLMI\xD6\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-09 21:22:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Great stuff Mili!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-09 23:04:12'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "This is what I made for English today (& I second my appreciation; Great
    stuff Mili!) Feel free to quibble with my choices or add to them if you like.\r\n\r\nAa:
    apple, Apple, APPLE, aah, Aah, AAH, baathist, Baathist, BAATHIST, napa, Napa,
    NAPA, \r\nBb: beanpole, Beanpole, BEANPOLE, babble, Babble, BABBLE, nib, Nib,
    NIB, \r\nCc: cancer, Cancer, CANCER, vaccine, Vaccine, VACCINE, antiseptic, Antiseptic,
    ANTISEPTIC,\r\nDd: dog, Dog, DOG, sodden, Sodden, SODDEN, god, God, GOD,  \r\nEe:
    empathy, Empathy, EMPATHY, been, Been, BEEN, smile, Smile, SMILE, licensee, Licensee,
    LICENSEE\r\nFf: frog, Frog, FROG, stuffed, Stuffed, STUFFED, staff, Staff, STAFF,\r\nGg:
    great, Great, GREAT, froggy, Froggy, FROGGY, stag, Stag, STAG,\r\nHh: hill, Hill,
    HILL, hitchhike, Hitchhike, HITCHHIKE, fish, Fish, FISH\r\nIi: insight, Insight,
    INSIGHT, waterskiing, Waterskiing, WATERSKIING, cacti, Cacti, CACTI\r\nJj: job,
    Job, JOB, avijja, Avijja, AVIJJA, hajji, Hajji, HAJJI, taj, Taj, TAJ\r\nKk: knit,
    Knit, KNIT, trekkers, Trekkers, TREKKERS, book, Book, BOOK\r\nLl: light, Light,
    LIGHT, alligator, Alligator, ALLIGATOR, mall, Mall, MALL\r\nMm: mouse, Mouse,
    MOUSE, mommy, Mommy, MOMMY, allium, Allium, ALLIUM\r\nNn: nymphs, Nymphs, NYMPHS,
    sunny, Sunny, SUNNY, amphibian, Amphibian, AMPHIBIAN\r\nOo: owl, Owl, OWL, spoon,
    Spoon, SPOON, also, Also, ALSO\r\nPp: practical, Practical, PRACTICAL, flippancy,
    Flippancy, FLIPPANCY, top, Top, TOP\r\nQq: quake, Quake, QUAKE, zaqqum, Zaqqum,
    ZAQQUM, umiaq, Umiaq, UMIAQ\r\nRr: grrl, Grrl, GRRL, hurricane, Hurricane, HURRICANE,
    ear, Ear, EAR\r\nSs: so, So, SO, sassafrass, Sassafrass, SASSAFRASS, atrocious,
    Atrocious, ATROCIOUS\r\nTt: the, The, THE, tsunami, Tsunami, TSUNAMI, mottled,
    Mottled, MOTTLED,\r\nUu: ulu, Ulu, ULU, vacuum, Vacuum, VACUUM, bayou, Bayou,
    BAYOU\r\nVv: valley, Valley, VALLEY, savvy, Savvy, SAVVY, maglev, Maglev, MAGLEV\r\nWw:
    white, White, WHITE, glowworm, Glowworm, GLOWWORM, sorrow, Sorrow, SORROW\r\nXx:
    xenophobe, Xenophobe, XENOPHOBE, zaxxon, Zaxxon, ZAXXON, bordeaux, Bordeaux, BORDEAUX\r\nYy:
    you, You, You lyyn, Lyyn, LYYN, smiley, Smiley, SMILEY\r\nZz: zowie, Zowie, ZOWIE,
    puzzle, Puzzle, PUZZLE, fuzz, Fuzz, FUZZ,\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-10 08:26:38'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "This is a long thread, and I have only skimmed it, so I may be trying to
    make points already made.\r\n\r\nThe \"word test\" is a nice idea, but it would
    be a tremendous effort. In the original post, I saw WAVE. Remember, the amount
    you kern the \"A\" to the \"W\" is constant for all following letters. I pretty
    much guarantee you if you pick a kern value for \"WA\" looking at \"WAVE', you
    will be shocked about the \"WA\" kern value when the word is \"WAR.\"\r\n\r\nYou
    are also not apt to come up with all the pairs needed. I've been setting type
    for almost 30 years, and something you've never thought of always becomes a problem
    -- Quick: is there a word using \"Yg\"? Yes, Ygraine, the name of King Arthur's
    mom.\r\n\r\nAs to diacritics, I agree they often need work, and not only the umlaut.
    Both position and shape matters. The macron should have a height over the letters
    in keeping with the umlaut, and these should also relate to the other diacritics.
    I also think the accents over capitals should relate to those over the lower-case
    letters, though what bothers one person may not bother another. The capital accents
    in Quadraat have always seemed unfortunate to me. Your mileage may vary.\r\n\r\nAnother
    place to look at diacritics is in conjunction with other letters. How about \"f\"
    with any of the vowels carrying an umlaut or a grave? Frequently, more f-ligatures
    are needed -- \"f_agrave,\" f_egrave,\" \"f_udieresus\" etc. When they are needed,
    you usually have to redraw the \"f\" a bit as well as fooling with the position
    and spacing of accent.\r\n\r\nSo while a list might be nice, as a comp I've abandoned
    any hope of coming up with anything complete, and fix things (when the EULA allows,
    of course) as they come up. I can't resist: for those of you who have a EULA which
    prohibits the user from any modification, including kerning, I'll bet a considerable
    sum I've set a book about some topic that will embarrass your font. A better practice,
    I think, is to work with your \"end-users\" and update the fonts from time to
    time as problems appear and are resolved.\r\n\r\nCharles Ellertson \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-10 14:01:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Froggy\" hmmm, now that has some possibilities :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-10 14:28:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I had almost forgotten my favorite English poem for testing type. It has
    several nonstandard pairings of glyphs is is just plain fun too!\r\n\r\nJABBERWOCKY\r\n\r\nLewis
    Carroll\r\n\r\n(from Through the Looking-Glass and What Alice Found There, 1872)\r\n`Twas
    brillig, and the slithy toves\r\n  Did gyre and gimble in the wabe:\r\nAll mimsy
    were the borogoves,\r\n  And the mome raths outgrabe.\r\n\r\n\"Beware the Jabberwock,
    my son!\r\n  The jaws that bite, the claws that catch!\r\nBeware the Jubjub bird,
    and shun\r\n  The frumious Bandersnatch!\"\r\n\r\nHe took his vorpal sword in
    hand:\r\n  Long time the manxome foe he sought --\r\nSo rested he by the Tumtum
    tree,\r\n  And stood awhile in thought.\r\n\r\nAnd, as in uffish thought he stood,\r\n
    \ The Jabberwock, with eyes of flame,\r\nCame whiffling through the tulgey wood,\r\n
    \ And burbled as it came!\r\n\r\nOne, two! One, two! And through and through\r\n
    \ The vorpal blade went snicker-snack!\r\nHe left it dead, and with its head\r\n
    \ He went galumphing back.\r\n\r\n\"And, has thou slain the Jabberwock?\r\n  Come
    to my arms, my beamish boy!\r\nO frabjous day! Callooh! Callay!'\r\n  He chortled
    in his joy.\r\n\r\n`Twas brillig, and the slithy toves\r\n  Did gyre and gimble
    in the wabe;\r\nAll mimsy were the borogoves,\r\n  And the mome raths outgrabe.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-10 14:41:18'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Charles, the samples we are working on here are not meant to be the basis
    of a kern test. There are many other good ways of doing that. These samples are
    meant to help us get a sense of how glyphs are combined in a given language. To
    help us see patterns we would not imagine otherwise. And so that our designs can
    be tuned to languages beyond our own.\r\n\r\nChris, I always loved that poem."
  created: '2007-02-10 18:08:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Does any body have suggestions about who else to ask so we can add languages?
    Any volunteers?
  created: '2007-02-12 22:05:05'
- author:
    name: dumpling
  body: "<blockquote>lyxvilla = luxury villa in Swedish</blockquote>\r\nThis word
    \u2191 almost looks like a Roman numeral.\r\n\r\nAs for test words: I would include
    words like:<ul>\r\n<li>\"Illinois\", \"illness\", \"bilious\", \"Lilian\";</li>\r\n<li>\"Lisa\",
    \"Laurel\", \"lawyer\", \"alas\";</li>\r\n<li>\"minimum\" (as a bare minimum);
    \"mummy\", \"humdrum\", and \"mumps\".</li></ul>\r\nAlso, since I love figures,
    I'd try:<ul>\r\n<li>1088 + 23 = 1111</li>\r\n<li>5055 \xD7 2 = 10110</li>\r\n<li>7067
    \xD7 5 = 35335</li></ul>\r\nfor starters. (I'm not telling you why I don't like
    proportional figures; I'm showing you.)"
  created: '2013-08-06 09:32:02'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "T\xE1ir chomh suaite agus d\xE1 mba n\xE1 ligfe\xE1 do thaobh ar aon leabaidh
    le tr\xED o\xEDche. An rabhais amuigh in aon bhall ar\xE9ir?"
  created: '2014-08-03 10:08:16'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "Some Munster Irish\r\n\r\n\r\nAch nuair a thosnaigh Eisirt ar ghn\xEDomharthaibh
    gaile agus gaisce I\xFAbhd\xE1in do mholadh, agus gn\xEDomhartha a laochra a bh\xED
    f\xE9na smacht, agus ar an l\xE9irscrios a dheinid\xEDs ar namhaid i gcogadh agus
    i gcruach\xF3mhrac do mholadh, ar chuma \u2019nar dh\xF3\u2019 le duine gurbh
    fhathaigh mh\xF3ra iad go l\xE9ir, is amhlaidh a bh\xED Feargus agus an chuideachta
    go l\xE9ir i riocht dul i laige le neart suilt agus g\xE1ir\xED. Nuair a bh\xEDodh
    Eisirt dh\xE1 \xEDnsint sa d\xE1n conas mar a deint\xED na cathanna m\xF3ra do
    throid, do l\xE9imeadh s\xE9 \u2019na sheasamh agus shi\xFAladh s\xE9 anonn \u2019s
    anall ar an mb\xF3rd, agus faor ar a ghuth agus tine chreasa ag teacht as a sh\xFAilibh,
    f\xE9 mar a bheadh s\xE9 i l\xE1r catha \xE9igin agus namhaid chr\xF3ga aige d\xE1
    leagadh in aghaidh gach focail d\xE1 labhradh s\xE9. Tr\xEDd an sult go leir d\xF3ibh
    n\xED maith a bh\xEDodh \u2019 fhios ag an gcuideachtain ceocu ba cheart d\xF3ibh
    sult a dh\xE9anamh de n\xFA eagla \u2019 bheith acu roimis nuair a ch\xEDd\xEDs
    an rabhartha feirg sin ag teacht air.\r\n"
  created: '2014-08-03 10:15:03'
date: '2007-01-31 19:19:01'
title: Example test words for aesthetics - and umlauts too

---
