---
author:
  name: jaykay109
  picture: 111351
body: "Hello font-fellows,\r\n\r\nLong time no visit. Hope everybody is well.\r\n\r\nI'm
  in the process of writing an academic paper about software piracy and I have come
  to a roadblock. I need your expertise.\r\n\r\nI'm fairly certain that at some point
  in the past, while reading about the history of type design I have come across examples
  of typefaces that were \"pirated\" centuries ago by competing printers. For example,
  Caslon may have cut a typeface and his letters were then blatantly counterfeited
  by those who could get their hands on a specimen. I know that this happened, but
  I need to find some sources that discuss it in more detail. Does anybody know of
  any sources that I could reference for this topic? \r\n\r\nMy overall intent is
  to show that \"software piracy\" is by no means a new thing, and that unscrupulous
  folks have been stealing more than tangible property for centuries.\r\n\r\nAny help
  would be greatly appreciated. Thank you so much!\r\n\r\n- Josh Korwin\r\nhttp://www.threestepsahead.com/"
comments:
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hi:\r\n\r\nhahaha.... (not laughing at you) umm there is this one typophiler
    that has very very strong feelings about anybody making even the remotest 'copy'
    of someone else's work... This person has a website too. Search for 'Bitstream
    forgeries' in google and you should find the page... i want to say sanskrit dot
    something.\r\n\r\nThat would be a modern source for 'information'. \r\n\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2007-02-02 19:46:57'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "<em>Boy, cheap copies of already exitsing typefaces\u2026 in 1710! Some things
    really do seem to stay the same!</em>\r\nhttp://www.typeoff.de/?p=120"
  created: '2007-02-02 20:07:35'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: You read about it in the Clarendon thread. It was an image posted by James
    Mosley. Perhaps ping him via that thread, James might join us over here too.
  created: '2007-02-02 20:09:40'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Benjamin Franklin made his living via intellectual property theft. I know
    that he used Caslon's types in his presses, so if anyone was knocking of Caslon's
    types, it was Franklin.
  created: '2007-02-02 20:10:29'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"My overall intent is to show that \u201Csoftware piracy\u201D is by no
    means a new thing\"\r\n\r\nThe concept of software piracty required two key elements:\r\n\r\n
    - the invention of software\r\n - the writing of copyright laws.\r\n\r\nSo, in
    the grand scheme of things, it actually is a relatively new concept.\r\n\r\n\"Benjamin
    Franklin made his living via intellectual property theft.\"\r\n\r\nMost companies
    do, really. A few innovate. Many copy. 'tis the way it's always been and always
    likely will be. (and that's not to say that is a bad or good thing, either)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: jaykay109
      picture: 111351
    body: "aluminum,\r\n\r\nHere I use \"software\" not in the computerized sense,
      but in the sense of information that can be removed and duplicated outside of
      the boundaries of its tangible medium. Fonts, for example, are the computerized
      version of tangible punches, but also the computerized version of the letterforms
      that those punches were cut to embody. For my purposes, the typeface design
      is the software, and the punches used to set the printed page, along with the
      press, are the hardware. In that sense, things haven't really changed that much
      over the course of a few centuries; it's just easier to make perfect or near-perfect
      copies of original works.\r\n\r\nThink about it in the Platonic sense; I think
      of \"software\" as the \"pure forms.\" One can break into a letterpress house
      and steal their entire heavy case of type, or one can lift the designs through
      diligent counterfeiting. \r\n\r\nWith regards to copyright laws, what would
      you consider to be \"relatively new?\" Even the idea of \"relatively new\" is
      relative. (Har har.) To be exact, \"copyright\" laws and the doctrines that
      inspired them  have existed for centuries. Read more here: \r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_copyright_law\r\n\r\n\u2014
      Josh\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
      and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
    created: '2007-02-02 21:56:38'
  created: '2007-02-02 21:04:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Benjamin Franklin made his living via intellectual property theft.\r\n\r\nJames,
    how do you know that Franklin's Caslon types or matrices weren't bought legitimately
    from Caslon? \r\n\r\nI've never heard this allegation. "
  created: '2007-02-02 21:35:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I recall a book on Fournier I read at Reading that has some interesting stuff
    on this - much of the promotional material made by type founders would extol the
    virtues of their types over their competitors, who were often portrayed as imitators.
    \r\n"
  created: '2007-02-02 22:05:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>A few innovate. Many copy. \u2018tis the way it\u2019s always been and
    always likely will be.</em>\r\n\r\nThat obscures many important distinctions.\r\nReferral
    must be made to John Downer's excellent classification system, <a href=\"http://www.emigre.com/Editorial.php?sect=2&id=1\">Call
    It What It Is.</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-02 22:55:13'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Here I use \u201Csoftware\u201D not in the computerized sense, but in the
    sense of information that can be removed and duplicated outside of the boundaries
    of its tangible medium. Fonts, for example, are the computerized version of tangible
    punches, but also the computerized version of the letterforms that those punches
    were cut to embody.\"\r\n\r\nSimply put, you're talking about intellectual property.\r\n\r\nAnd,
    yes, copyright laws have been around for some time. However, the creation, sharing,
    borrowing and stealing of ideas (I'm guessing) has been around since the beginning
    of human existance. ;o)\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: jaykay109
      picture: 111351
    body: "aluminum, \r\n\r\nTrue, and true.\r\n\r\nAre we agreeing or disagreeing?\r\n\r\n\u2014
      Josh\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
      and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
    created: '2007-02-03 02:48:35'
  created: '2007-02-02 23:35:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>James, how do you know that Franklin\u2019s Caslon types or matrices
    weren\u2019t bought legitimately from Caslon?\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve never heard this
    allegation.</cite>\r\n\r\nI didn't say that I know he did, I suggested that it's
    likely based on Franklin's other activities. After the founding of the United
    States, Franklin made much of his money by reprinting European books, which had
    no copyright protection in the USA at that time. So if anyone was ripping off
    Caslon's ideas, Ben Franklin seems like a very likely candidate. "
  created: '2007-02-02 23:58:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'JayKay, your web site and your MyFonts information says that Goudy designed
    ''Goudy Fancy'' in the 1970s. Goudy died in 1947. So with all due respect, I get
    the feeling that your first step in writing your paper would to spend some more
    time with type history books.  '
  children:
  - author:
      name: jaykay109
      picture: 111351
    body: "Monsieur Berkson, \r\n\r\nGood point! Hrm. I honestly do not know where
      I got that information, but I promise that it did not come out of my rear end.
      Googling \"Goudy Fancy\" does not give many tasty results, though. So, besides
      your skill in criticizing my apparent ignorance, would you (or anybody more
      knowledgeable) be able to provide me with <em>accurate</em> information about
      the original \"Goudy Fancy?\" With that, I'll be able to update my site and
      my MyFonts profile to match. The last thing I would like to do is to disseminate
      incorrect information, so I'd appreciate any help I can get.\r\n\r\nAnd as an
      aside, the paper itself isn't primarily concerned with type; I'm using the concept
      of design stealing to illustrate a larger point.\r\n\r\n\u2014 Josh\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
      and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
    created: '2007-02-03 02:46:35'
  created: '2007-02-03 00:02:58'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "James\r\n\r\nThe thing about Franklin is not accurate. The American printer
    Christopher Sower began importing matrices from the Luther foundry in 1770 and
    he established the first foundry here in 1772. \r\n\r\nCaslon was the more popular
    of British typefaces at the time, thus it appeared in most American publications.
    It probably survived, through successive recuttings, longer in the States than
    in England, until the revival in mid 19th century.\r\n\r\nWhile foundries certainly
    did copy the popular typefaces of other foundries this was in no way \"pure theft\"
    as there was no way to get accurate copy prior to the development of photography
    and the camera.\r\n\r\nGerald\r\nhttp://BielerPress.blogspot.com"
  created: '2007-02-03 01:07:04'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I suggested that it\u2019s likely based on Franklin\u2019s other activities</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    not a very responsible thing to be saying. It's what dictionaries and lawyers
    call an <strong>allegation</strong>. Now, if you back yourself with some sort
    of information from reliable sources, then you would have something known as a
    <strong>fact</strong>.\r\n\r\nThe quoted text below is taken from <em>Benjamin
    Franklin, An American Life</em>, by Walter Isaacson (2003, Simon & Schuster):\r\n\r\n\"Because
    there was no foundry in America for casting type, Franklin contrived one of his
    own by using Keimer's letters [Keimer was the printer he worked for at the time]
    to make lead molds. He thus became the first person in America to manufacture
    type.\"\r\n\r\nLater, when Franklin decides to leave Keimer's shop and set up
    one of his own with one of Keimer's apprentices, Hugh Meredith, Meredith's father
    \"agreed to provide the funding necessary (200 pounds) for the two young men to
    set up a partnership... They sent to London for equipment*, which arrived early
    in 1728...\"\r\n\r\n\"*The fonts that Franklin ordered were those created in the
    early 1720s by the famed London type-maker William Caslon...\""
  created: '2007-02-03 03:25:12'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Hi Josh.\r\n\r\nOnline, you could look here:\r\nhttp://learning.north.londonmet.ac.uk/epoc/typhis.htm\r\n\r\nJust
    search for the word \"piracy\"."
  created: '2007-02-03 03:33:52'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: Forget google, wikipedia etc. Do you have access to an academic library?
  children:
  - author:
      name: jaykay109
      picture: 111351
    body: "By the way, thanks VERY much to everybody providing specific resources,
      I really appreciate it, and once I've had time to go through everything, I'll
      probably be posting with more questions or commentary.\r\n\r\n\r\ntypequake,\r\n\r\nYes,
      but not a design-related library at the university I attend. Do you have a specific
      resource in mind? I'm not ready to dismiss the Internet altogether, because
      for me, it's always the best and quickest place to start a search, at least.\r\n\r\n\u2014
      Josh\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
      and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
    created: '2007-02-03 08:43:31'
  created: '2007-02-03 04:46:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Josh, I should have pointed out the mistake in your history of Goudy Fancy
    privately via IM. My apologies. \r\n\r\nMy point, in any case, was that the internet
    is quite poor when it comes to type history. \r\n\r\nAfter you read some surveys
    of type history in books, you can find useful, though limited, information on
    the internet. However the internet will not give you a good basic framework. I
    would start with Bringhurst's historical chapter in his Elements of Typographic
    Style, and then you can follow up with others. \r\n\r\nAs to Goudy Fancy itself,
    if you put in that phrase as key word in MyFonts.com you will find another digital
    version of it which gives a history of it in the photo type era. I don't know
    if it's correct, but it's plausible, and you could follow up on her references.
    \r\n\r\nOn your thesis: \"My overall intent is to show that \u201Csoftware piracy\u201D
    is by no means a new thing, and that unscrupulous folks have been stealing more
    than tangible property for centuries.\" As Gerald indicates above, this viewpoint
    is a bit off target. \r\n\r\nIn the days of punch cutting every glyph by hand,
    exact copies were not really practical possibilities. During this era--till the
    invention of the pantographic punch cutter in 1880s--people did take design ideas
    from others, but didn't do exact copies. However, it is important to note that
    ideas are not copyrightable. \r\n\r\nHere you get to the difficulty of your topic.
    When does inspiration from the ideas in another design turn into unethical or
    illegal theft? This is not simple to determine, which is what makes protecting
    designs of all kinds difficult. \r\n\r\nSome cases are pretty clear on either
    end. For example the South Portico of the White House was designed by Thomas Jefferson,
    inspired by a similar portico in a building in Paris (where he had been posted).
    I believe he credited the source, and in any case it was one element in the design,
    and the effect was quite different. And there is no law against copying one element
    of a building in another, so far as I know. So there is no problem in what Jefferson
    did. \r\n\r\nOn the other hand, some people just do an electronic copy of a digital
    font and resell them without permission or benefit to the original designer or
    foundery. That is a clear case of piracy, and is so recognized in law. \r\n\r\nYou
    can find some interesting information on the internet about the history of copyright
    law that will give you further insight on this issue. \r\n\r\nBut basically the
    story is that literal font copying didn't happen until about 1890, with the use
    of photographic enlargements and the pantographic punch cutter. I don't know the
    history of the law and practices on this issue, but getting it will require a
    lot of library work or talking to knowledgeable people or both. Copying of designs
    became still easier in the photo type era, and a snap in the digital era. \r\n\r\nIn
    sum, both the question of what has happened and what was ethical in each era is
    not so easy to find out and say with precision. And the internet will not give
    you the answers. \r\n "
  created: '2007-02-03 15:39:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> untill the invention of the pantographic punch cutter in 1880s\u2014people
    did take design ideas from others, but didn\u2019t do exact copies.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    electrotype process was a bit earlier."
  created: '2007-02-03 18:18:36'
- author:
    name: jaykay109
    picture: 111351
  body: "NOW we're getting somewhere. Thank you for the thoughtful insight, Mr. Berkson.\r\n\r\nThat's
    an excellent point. I suppose if there really was direct copying of ideas in the
    days before technology were strong enough to make two copies indistinguishable,
    it would be difficult to prove that an exact duplication had taken place, and
    even the slightest variation would be something of an \"evolution\" of the design.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    then typography isn't really the point. I'd probably have more luck discussing
    the direct duplication of the <em>content</em> of books; even though the typesetting
    may have differed, there was definite bootlegging of books at the time. \r\n\r\nAs
    a side note, I do have quite a few books on type (and I've read through <em>The
    Elements</em> a few times, but I don't think I've come across any mention of Goudy
    Fancy in any volume. I only originally learned of the typeface, and subsequently
    digitized it, after a scan of an old Letraset catalogue was posted on a newsgroup
    a few years ago. I'll keep searching, but if anyone does have any specific information
    about it, that'd be grand.\r\n\r\nThanks again to all!\r\n\r\n\u2014Josh\r\n\r\n\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\u2014\xE6\u2014\r\n<strong>\"Wishers
    and woulders be small householders.\"</strong>\r\n<em>\u2014Wynkyn de Worde</em>"
  created: '2007-02-03 18:29:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">a bit earlier\r\n\r\nThanks for the correction. \r\n\r\nNow I remember that
    in Mac McGrew's history of Caslon (In American Metal Typefaces of the 20th Century),
    he says that a Laurence Johnson in 1858 arranged with the Caslon foundry to reproduce
    Caslon, and that this may have been done by electroplating. \r\n\r\nBut this seems
    to have been paid for, or had some royalty arrangement. Were there unauthorized
    copies of typefaces done in a similar way in the mid-19th century? \r\n\r\nedit:
    Just saw Joshua's post. The history of protection of intellectual property is
    an important and ongoing story. An inital search in the internet says that the
    current idea of copyright goes back to 1710, the \"statue of Anne\", and that
    the whole history evolved out of the existence of the printing press, which allowed
    exact copies of a text. "
  created: '2007-02-03 18:31:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, the US government institutionalized \"software\" piracy from the get-go.\r\nIt
    ignored European copyright, and this acted as a form of subsidy to local content
    producers.\r\nSo when Morris refused Phinney permission to reproduce the Golden
    Type, he went ahead anyway, naming it \"Jenson Oldstyle\". \r\n\r\nThere were
    major changes in British copyright in the late 18th century, going from perpetual
    to a time-limit, which boosted the UK book industry, opening up the reprinting
    of cheap classics. That's in St Clair's brilliant \"The Reading Nation in the
    Romantic Period\"."
  created: '2007-02-03 20:57:16'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "Josh,\r\n\r\nIf your topic is about what you call software \"piracy\", then
    I recommend  a good book on the history of intellectual property rights, which
    you should be able to find in a law library."
  created: '2007-02-04 03:41:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Date of first electrotype matrix: 1845.\r\nAs well as making piracy extremely
    easy, it made it much easier to make detailed type, by working indirectly in softer
    metal."
  created: '2007-02-04 04:57:44'
- author:
    name: ian party
    picture: 111796
  body: " LaPolice is the first revival of an exceptional font produced in exceptional
    circumstances. Forget copyrights, trademarks: LaPolice is he first hacking of
    importance in the history of typography! It is the immediate copy of one of the
    largest typography innovations of the celebrated Romain du Roi created in 1705,
    which was used as the typeface for the court of Louis the XIV. What did the police
    do? Nothing.\r\n\r\nThe creator of this type, Mathieu Malherbe Des Portes, the
    sole hallmark punch cutter of all of Paris proper, himself had trained Phillippe
    Granjean, the engraver of the font Romain du Roi. His version carries all of the
    unique characteristics of the Romain du Roi, such as the new horizontal serifs,
    sometimes doubled and the secant L. LaPolice is rounder and more dynamic than
    its original model - it is also more modern and 'organic'. LaPolice is named after
    a document named \"Trait\xE9 de la Police\". \r\n\r\nyou can have a look at this
    typeface on bpfoundry.com\r\na interpretation of Romain du Roi design by Ian Party
    will be release on bpfoundry in April 07 "
  created: '2007-02-06 13:12:28'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Based upon what you've said, perhaps Claude Garamond should be tried for stealing
    Antoine Augereau's roman. ;^) Seriously, interesting information.
  created: '2007-02-06 20:25:10'
- author:
    name: ian party
    picture: 111796
  body: "I m not sur that we can compare Antoine Augereau and Claude Garamond with
    Phillippe Granjean and Malherbe Des Portes. The \"Garamond\" style was \"creat\"
    by different engraver in 1530 in Paris (maybe Simon de Colines and Augereau) Guillaume
    II Le B\xE9 (1604) (son of Guillaume Le B\xE9 who was the associate of Claude
    Garamond since 1550) talked about this in two different text. When Garmond creat
    his first typeface in 1540 he was only inspired by the style of the period, the
    pupils follow the steps of his (dead) master. The \"Romain du Roi\"  is a custom
    typeface it had shapes who were supposed to be private for the \"Imprimerie Royal\"
    like the secant l, it was like a trademark, Malherbe Des Portes used in his typeface
    a lot of those shapes. We don t know why the \"Imprimerie Royal\" said nothing...
    it s even more strange when we know that at the end of the 18 century, the director
    of the \"Imprimerie Royal\" made a lawsuit to Didot typefoundry because they used
    the horizontal serif, he said that they copy the trademark of the French kingdom's
    typeface... Didot won the lawsuit..."
  created: '2007-02-06 23:45:56'
date: '2007-02-02 19:35:25'
title: Old-school type "piracy"

---
