---
author:
  name: coop
body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nI searching for a definitive system for naming opentype font
  families in Fontlab that works accross platforms. Problems I've experienced are
  mainly to do with the font list in applications, font styles in families not appearing
  in the correct order, so instead of Light, Regular, Medium, Bold I have Bold, Regular,
  Medium, Light. Sometimes I have the situation where the lIght will appear at the
  bottom of the list seperate from the rest of the family. I just what the font family
  name to appear alphabetically and then within the font style names to appear in
  order.\r\n\r\nI have read many post on this subject and the fontlab manual, but
  I still don't have a definitive answer that works accross platforms.\r\n\r\nAny
  help would be GREATLY appreciated\r\n\r\n\r\nc."
comments:
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: 'FontLab Group, Tips and Tricks : <a href="http://groups.msn.com/fontlab/tipsandtricks.msnw?action=get_message&mview=0&ID_Message=2843">Font
    Family Naming in FontLab</a>.'
  created: '2007-02-03 12:01:47'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Coop, \r\n\r\nthe *definitive* solution to the problem is: \r\n\r\n1. If
    your family has more than four members, split it into style-linked groups with
    up to four members. \r\n\r\n2. Never use any of the \"OT\" names (i.e. OT Family
    Name and OT Style Name). \r\n\r\n3. In the Style Name field, have only one of
    the four basic values (\"Regular\", \"Italic\", \"Bold\", \"Bold Italic\"). \r\n\r\n4.
    Your Family Name should include the name of the style-linked group, i.e. may be
    identical only for up to four fonts that have different Style Name. Different
    style-linked groups can use different suffixes to differentiate, e.g. one oculd
    be \"Coop Sans\", another \"Coop Sans Lt\", another \"Coop Sans Blk\", another
    \"Coop Sans Disp\" etc. \r\n\r\n5. Remember that your Family Name field may not
    exceed 31 characters, better be even shorter. \r\n\r\n6. Your PS Font Name and
    your Full Name may reflect the true typographic name of the font, e.g. the font
    with Family Name \"Coop Sans Lt\" and Style Name \"Regular\" could have the Full
    Name \"Coop Sans Light\" and the PS Font Name \"CoopSans-Light\". \r\n\r\nIf you
    follow this scheme, all your OpenType fonts will appear as style-linked groups
    on Windows, Mac and in Adobe applications. This somehow limits the typographic
    freedom of how the user will see your family, but guarantees cross-platform compatibility.
    \r\n\r\nIf you use the Adobe-style OpenType family naming, i.e. choose to place
    the alternative \"true typographic\" family naming in the OT Family Name and OT
    Style Name fields (e.g. for the example mentioned above it would be \"Coop Sans\"
    and \"Light\"), you will have \"prettier\" font menus in Mac and Adobe applications,
    but you won't get 100% cross-platform compatibility of documents. \r\n\r\nAdam"
  children:
  - author:
      name: coop
    body: "Adam,\r\n\r\nThanks for your reply, You say :\r\n\r\n2. Never use any of
      the \u201COT\u201D names (i.e. OT Family Name and OT Style Name).\r\n\r\nbut
      in your plan here.\r\n\r\nhttp://groups.msn.com/fontlab/tipsandtricks.msnw?action=get_message&mview=1&ID_Message=2843\r\n\r\nPut
      Long Family in the OT \"Family Name\" field (on the OpenType-specific names
      pane).\r\n\r\nc.\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-02-03 16:53:34'
  created: '2007-02-03 13:00:21'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Yes, my \"plan\" there describes the Adobe-style OpenType family naming.
    You asked for a cross-platform one, which is something different. As I stated
    above: \r\n\r\n<em>If you follow this scheme, all your OpenType fonts will appear
    as style-linked groups on Windows, Mac and in Adobe applications. This somehow
    limits the typographic freedom of how the user will see your family, but guarantees
    cross-platform compatibility. \r\n\r\nIf you use the Adobe-style OpenType family
    naming, i.e. choose to place the alternative \u201Ctrue typographic\u201D family
    naming in the OT Family Name and OT Style Name fields (e.g. for the example mentioned
    above it would be \u201CCoop Sans\u201D and \u201CLight\u201D), you will have
    \u201Cprettier\u201D font menus in Mac and Adobe applications, but you won\u2019t
    get 100% cross-platform compatibility of documents.</em>"
  created: '2007-02-04 14:20:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Another piece to the puzzle solved by Adam :-)\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-04 14:38:36'
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "Twardoch,\r\n\r\nThanks again for the reply, but I'm still not getting this.\r\nIf
    I have an opentype font called Coop and I have.\r\n\r\nCoop Light\r\nCoop Light
    Italic\r\nCoop Regular\r\nCoop Italic\r\nCoop Medium\r\nCoop Medium Italic\r\nCoop
    Bold\r\nCoop Bold Italic\r\n\r\nWhat names should I put in the Fields\r\n\r\nFamily
    Name\r\nWeight\r\nWidth\r\n\r\nStyle Name\r\nPS Font Name\r\nFull Name\r\nMenu
    Name\r\nFOND Name \r\n\r\nTo make the font appear in the right place in the font
    list and have all the styles appear in the correct order accross plaltforms.\r\nI'm
    sorry to ask like this but I don't know what else to do.\r\n\r\nThis is the last
    piece of a long puzzle - Help\r\n\r\nAny help greatly appreciated.\r\n\r\nc.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-04 17:24:42'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "For an example, you can look at page 5 of <a href=\"http://www.kltf.de/downloads/FontNaming-kltf.pdf\">this</a>.
    Replace \"Semibold\" by \"Medium\" and it should resemble your family.\r\n\r\nIf
    you will generate OpenType fonts only (which I get from your very first post),
    you do not need to fill in the \"Menu Name\" and \"FOND Name\".\r\n\r\nIf you
    make PS-OpenType fonts, you can use \"Coop-Regular\" in \"PS Font Name\".\r\nIf
    you make TT-OpenType fonts too, you should use \"Coop\" (and \"CoopLight\" for
    the other sub-family) in \"PS Font Name\". (This name will not be displayed but
    is used for identifying the font.)\r\n\r\nSince it seems that you want the family
    to appear as identical as possible in all applications: Leave \"OT Family Name\",
    \"OT Style Name\" and \"Compatible Menu Name\" empty. \r\n\r\nVery important:
    In FLS5 Options/Preferences, section \"Generating OpenType PS (.otf)\", you must
    activate \"Use PostScript FontName as FullName on Windows\" if you are generating
    PS-OpenType fonts.\r\n\r\n<strong>And then: Double-check if all of Adam's requirements
    for absolute platform-compatibility are met!</strong>\r\n\r\nAnd do many tests.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  children:
  - author:
      name: coop
    body: "Karsten,\r\n\r\nThanks for the reply - thats a great document.\r\n\r\nI
      still have a problem of the Light and Light Italic being seperate and they appear
      at the bottom the fontlist in all adobe products on the mac, I haven't tested
      on a PC yet.\r\n\r\nc. "
    created: '2007-02-05 13:20:31'
  created: '2007-02-04 22:48:38'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "This rather sounds like your font cache is corrupt.\r\nTry this (in this
    order):\r\n\r\n(1) Quit all applications.\r\n(2) Search for \"AdobeFnt\", then
    delete all files looking like \"AdobeFnt10.lst\" (if you have CS2), the number
    may differ. These are Adobe-app font caches.\r\nBut do NOT delete files ending
    with\".db\".\r\n(3) Use <a href=\"http://homepage.mac.com/mdouma46/fontfinagler/\">Font
    Finagler</a> or a similar tool to delete the Mac OSX system font caches. This
    requires a restart of the system.\r\n\r\nDoes this work?\r\n\r\n(You can contact
    me offline through my Typophile user page.)\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2007-02-05 15:54:46'
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "Karsten,\r\n\r\nI tried your method on page 5 of your document, but in the
    font list I get two font names Coop and Coop Light within each of these are the
    same styles Light, Regular, Bold and Bold Italic. The onlt thing I've changed
    from your example is to subistute semibold for Medium..\r\n\r\n\r\nc.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/coop_3595.gif]"
  created: '2007-02-05 15:55:14'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "<strong>VARIANT 1</strong>\r\n<strong>PS Font Name* | <em>Family Name</em>
    | Style Name | <em>OT Family Name**</em> | OT Style Name** | Is Bold | <em>Is
    Italic</em> | </strong>\r\nCoop-Lig | <em>Coop Lig</em> | Regular | <em>Coop</em>
    | Light | N | <em>N</em> | \r\nCoop-LigIta | <em>Coop Lig</em> | Italic | <em>Coop</em>
    | Light Italic | N | <em>Y</em> | \r\nCoop-Reg | <em>Coop</em> | Regular | <em>Coop</em>
    | Regular | N | <em>N</em> | \r\nCoop-Ita | <em>Coop</em> | Italic | <em>Coop</em>
    | Italic | N | <em>Y</em> | \r\nCoop-Med | <em>Coop Med</em> | Regular | <em>Coop</em>
    | Medium | N | <em>N</em> | \r\nCoop-MedIta | <em>Coop Med</em> | Italic | <em>Coop</em>
    | Medium Italic | N | <em>Y</em> | \r\nCoop-Bol | <em>Coop</em> | Bold | <em>Coop</em>
    | Bold | Y | <em>N</em> | \r\nCoop-BolIta | <em>Coop</em> | Bold Italic | <em>Coop</em>
    | Bold Italic | Y | <em>Y</em> | \r\n\r\n<strong>VARIANT 2</strong>\r\n<strong>PS
    Font Name* | <em>Family Name</em> | Style Name | <em>OT Family Name**</em> | OT
    Style Name** | Is Bold | <em>Is Italic</em> | </strong>\r\nCoop-Lig | <em>Coop
    Lig</em> | Regular | <em>Coop</em> | Light | N | <em>N</em> | \r\nCoop-LigIta
    | <em>Coop Lig</em> | Italic | <em>Coop</em> | Light Italic | N | <em>Y</em> |
    \r\nCoop-Reg | <em>Coop</em> | Regular | <em>Coop</em> | Regular | N | <em>N</em>
    | \r\nCoop-Ita | <em>Coop</em> | Italic | <em>Coop</em> | Italic | N | <em>Y</em>
    | \r\nCoop-Med | <em>Coop Lig</em> | Bold | <em>Coop</em> | Medium | Y | <em>N</em>
    | \r\nCoop-MedIta | <em>Coop Lig</em> | Bold Italic | <em>Coop</em> | Medium Italic
    | Y | <em>Y</em> | \r\nCoop-Bol | <em>Coop</em> | Bold | <em>Coop</em> | Bold
    | Y | <em>N</em> | \r\nCoop-BolIta | <em>Coop</em> | Bold Italic | <em>Coop</em>
    | Bold Italic | Y | <em>Y</em> | \r\n\r\nThe two variants differ in how Coop-Med
    and Coop-MedIta are style-linked. In the first variant, they create a style-linked
    group of their own, in variant 2 they are linked as bold counterparts to the Light
    styles. \r\n\r\n*) To simplify things, Full Name to be same as PS Font Name. \r\n\r\nI
    also recommend that the style elements in PS Font Name are always abbreviated
    to three letters (i.e. \"Lig\" for Light, \"Med\" for Medium, \"Bol\" for Bold
    etc.) In the Family Name field, you may use those abbreviations or full names,
    i.e. either \"Coop Lig\"/\"Coop Med\" or \"Coop Light\"/\"Coop Medium\" or even
    \"Coop Lt\"/\"Coop Md\". Sometimes it's wiser to use the shorter names because
    this leaves you room for a bunch of other suffixes that indicate the character
    set and your foundry, e.g. \"Coop Lig FL Pro\" etc. \r\n\r\n**) You can either
    fill these fields in, then you'll get \"prettier\" Adobe-style font menus in Adobe
    and Apple applications, but no 100% cross-platform compatibility, or you can omit
    these fields entirely, then you'll get Bitstream-style \"grouped into four styles
    per style-linked group\" font menus and 100% cross-platform compatibility. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam
    Twardoch\r\nFontlab Ltd.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-05 15:59:15'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "For Weight and Width use the predefined selectors (selecting true values
    that best match your design), but do not use a weight number lower than 250. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-02-05 16:05:05'
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "Twardoch,\r\n\r\nThanks for this great explanation. Final question I think
    - What should I be doing with the Non-English or special font names: [name] table.
    Do I just click on the import and leave the information or alter it or leave it
    blank.\r\n\r\nc."
  created: '2007-02-05 16:47:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Why does the FontLab user have to enter full separate information for these
    two variants?\r\n\r\nWhy can't I just enter one set of information, and then just
    click a button for either Variant 1 or Variant 2?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-05 19:07:17'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>but in the font list I get two font names Coop and Coop Light within
    each of these are the same styles Light, Regular, Bold and Bold Italic.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    this is correct, and this matches Adam's Variant 2, whereas Variant 1 would give
    you three family names in the font list: \"Coop\", \"Coop Lig\", \"Coop Med\"
    -- this means, if you <cite>omit</cite> OT Family Name and OT Style Name.\r\nIf
    you <cite>do</cite> provide OT Family Name and OT Style Name, you will see only
    <cite>one</cite> family (\"Coop\") in Adobe applications but two/three families
    e.g. in Word. (To this however applies what Adam said in the same post in footnote
    ** about \"prettier Adobe-style font menus\".)\r\n\r\nYou can leave the Non-English/special
    font name table empty, but in the options/preferences, section \"Generating OpenType
    PS, OpenType TT and TrueType\", select \"Do not export OpenType name records\".\r\n\r\nNice
    that after the many \"ifs\" it comes down to a specific solution!\r\nBut the \"ifs\"
    are important since every little difference will make a difference later: e.g.
    choosing Adam's variants 1 or 2, or providing OT names or not, already results
    in 4 different appearances of the font family in different applications ..."
  created: '2007-02-05 20:12:04'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Very important: In FLS5 Options/Preferences, section \u201CGenerating
    OpenType PS (.otf)\u201D, you must activate \u201CUse PostScript FontName as FullName
    on Windows\u201D if you are generating PS-OpenType fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat's
    the actual effect of activating/deactivating this option?\r\n\r\nRalf\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-06 08:26:51'
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "Oh my god, it works\r\n\r\nThank you all so much for your help and input.\r\n\r\nNot
    too such how and why it does, but I can work that out backwards.\r\n\r\nc."
  created: '2007-02-06 11:26:28'
- author:
    name: coop
  body: "Spoke too soon !\r\n\r\nOn Windows in Adobe applications the font list is
    fine but the Medium Italic weight is missing form the list.\r\n\r\nIs there something
    else I need to check in the perferences, or clear the cache on the PC  - Is it
    possible to clear the Font cache on a PC and if so how would I do that.\r\n\r\nc."
  created: '2007-02-06 12:08:07'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Why does the FontLab user have to enter full separate \r\n> information
    for these two variants?\r\n> Why can\u2019t I just enter one set of information,
    and \r\n> then just click a button for either Variant 1 or Variant 2?\r\n\r\nI
    don't understand the question. Those two variants are the designer's discretion,
    and are just examples. There are many other variants possible, and it's the designer
    who must make a choice how he *wants* his font menus to be structured. There are
    numerous limitations given by the spec, but there still is a lot of what the designer
    has to decide. \r\n\r\n>> Very important: In FLS5 Options/Preferences, section
    \r\n>> \u201CGenerating OpenType PS (.otf)\u201D, you must activate \u201CUse
    \r\n>> PostScript FontName as FullName on Windows\u201D if you are \r\n>> generating
    PS-OpenType fonts.\r\n> What\u2019s the actual effect of activating/deactivating
    this option?\r\n\r\nThis option should be always on. I think we will remove it
    from future releases. \r\n\r\n> What should I be doing with the Non-English or
    special \r\n> font names: [name] table\r\n\r\nLeave it blank. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam
    Twardoch\r\nFontlab Ltd.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-06 15:59:24'
- author:
    name: Richard8039
    picture: 112211
  body: "Hey all.\r\n\r\nI have created a script type face. Converted it all in Fontographer.
    It loads fine but I am having no luck when I type and use the space bar.\r\n\r\nany
    HELP is needed.\r\n\r\nthanks\r\nR"
  created: '2007-02-06 16:01:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Richard you should start a new thread for this. --The first thing I would
    check is that your "space" character has something other than a zero width. '
  created: '2007-02-06 16:09:40'
- author:
    name: Richard8039
    picture: 112211
  body: "William,\r\n\r\nThank you BIG time. Simple and it worked.\r\n\r\n\r\nRichard"
  created: '2007-02-06 16:17:48'
- author:
    name: Richard8039
    picture: 112211
  body: "Please advise.\r\nI am new to this forum. (thanks again William).\r\nHow
    do I create a new thread with ? about fontographer?\r\n\r\nthanks\r\nR"
  created: '2007-02-06 17:33:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t understand the question. Those two variants are the designer\u2019s
    discretion, and are just examples. There are many other variants possible, and
    it\u2019s the designer who must make a choice how he *wants* his font menus to
    be structured.</em>\r\n\r\nThe operative word is \"choice\".\r\nI would like to
    be able to *choose* from a selection of established, robust family name formats
    that I know will work, rather than spend ages inputting values, with the discretion
    to make all kinds of mistakes that will only become apparent after protracted
    trial and error testing.\r\n\r\nFontLab Family Formats? --That would certainly
    be useful for foundries making retail typefaces, and surely for OpenType, where
    the premise is ONE. \r\n\r\nAdmittedly, \"Claptrap Condensed Bold\" doesn't roll
    so easily off the end-user's tongue as \"Claptrap Bold Condensed\", but fonts
    should be organized around the way people use them, not whim or what sounds best.
    \r\n\r\nOf course, lower-level, manually editable naming controls will always
    be indispensible for custom font development, or those who want to stick with
    Bold Condensed.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nHowever, here is a solution for the FontLab
    interface that would offer the designer maximum *choice*:\r\n<strong>Virtual Menus</strong>
    that show how a particular family-naming scheme will display in different applications
    on different platforms.\r\n\r\nSo I, the designer, would enter my family naming
    scheme in the left fields.\r\nThe right fields would show how that scheme displays
    in different menus, by clicking on, for instance, the [ ] Word  [ ] Windows 98
    \ buttons, or the [ ] Quark XPress 7 [ ] OS X buttons.\r\n\r\nWith such a system,
    I would be able to interactively fine-tune the family names for a variety of applications,
    without having to generate fonts, load them, and boot up applications to see how
    they display."
  created: '2007-02-06 18:14:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">How do I create a new thread with ? about fontographer?\r\n\r\nClick on
    the 'build' forum. Scroll to the bottom. You will see the button for creating
    a thread. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Richard8039
      picture: 112211
    body: thanks
    created: '2007-02-06 18:42:56'
  created: '2007-02-06 18:21:33'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\nI will be giving some careful thought to redesigning the family
    naming settings for the next editions of our font editors. I will consider your
    suggestions. \r\n\r\nHowever, I very much doubt that Fontlab Ltd. will ever dare
    to provide naming suggestions \"for QuarkXPress 7\" or \"for Word XP\" or something
    like that. This would mean that we assume responsibility for knowing \"for sure\"
    exactly how these various applications recognize and organize names. It would
    mean that we'd need to track potential behavior changes and bugfixes made by vendors
    of those applications. \r\n\r\nWe're sufficiently busy in keeping track of what
    other companies are doing and trying to make sure that our tools are compatible
    with what Adobe, Apple, Microsoft, Quark etc. are doing. But it would be a different
    pair of shoes if we'd go from that to actually giving the customer a *promise*
    that certain settings will create a font that is compatible with Quark 7 or Word
    XP or something or other. And most certainly, we wouldn't build in hacks that
    would attempt to work around certain bugs in certain versions of certain applications
    -- only to potentially discover that their bug has been fixed in the next release
    and our hack is doing more harm than good. \r\n\r\nWe don't have insight into
    these companies source code. The companies don't publish the implementation details
    of their font engines. Their font people as well as Fontlab Ltd. simply do not
    have the resources to create a \"perfect font world\". It's as good as it gets.
    Adobe and Microsoft develop and publish the OpenType specification, and our mission
    is to be compatible with that. So is Quark's, Adobe's, Microsoft's, btw. The only
    promise that Fontlab Ltd. can give its customers is that our tools are compatible
    with OpenType. But not with Word, Quark or InDesign -- simply because we would
    not be able to reliably fulfil that promise. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-06 18:42:26'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Yet another informative thread to bookmark. :)
  created: '2007-02-06 19:00:10'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "I agree, font family naming is just one of these topics, where FontLab Studio
    could give the user some more help. I can understand if such things as a live
    menu preview are hardly possible, but what about a \"naming assistant\", \"export
    assistant\" and so on. \r\n\r\nFontLab has a very good usability when it comes
    to the design of the font, but to master these hundrets of checkboxes you almost
    have to be a software engineer \u2026\r\nI especially love this one checkbox \xBBUse
    this one only if you know what you are doing\xAB. ;-)\r\n\r\nRalf\r\n "
  created: '2007-02-06 20:34:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\xBBUse this one only if you know what you are doing\xAB\r\n\r\nor \"Don't
    try this at home\" :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-06 20:47:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>trying to make sure that our tools are compatible with what Adobe, Apple,
    Microsoft, Quark etc. are doing.</em>\r\n\r\nI think you should take a more proactive
    role.\r\nThose guys will always be doing things different ways.\r\nHowever, Fontlab
    is more dominant in its field than any of them are in theirs, so is ideally placed
    to establish some sensible family naming formats, and have the behemoths conform.\r\nThat
    would be particular useful in weaning Microsoft from its \"a family is four\"
    prejudice, which is both ante-deluvian and anti-typographic.\r\n\r\nI'll repeat:
    such family naming standards would be primarily for retail fonts, and hence of
    great benefit to the end-user massive. For more specialized concerns, e.g. custom
    fonts for proprietary system users, there's always the \"lower\" level of manual
    inputting for those who know what they're doing.\r\n\r\nThanks for your consideration,
    Adam.\r\n\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nKarsten:\r\nNice work on <em>Font Naming,</em> very
    useful, and such exquisite typography! (Except for the annoying Th ligs... :-)"
  created: '2007-02-06 21:35:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "And the other thing is vertical metrics.\r\n\r\nTypoascender, WinAscender,
    typolineheight and all that BS have absolutely nothing to do with type design--all
    that matters are the top and bottom of the emsquare, and the baseline.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-06 23:44:26'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: (Just a post to keep this thread in my "Track")
  created: '2007-02-07 12:59:13'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Does font naming have anything to do with how certain programs \"understand\"
    fonts? For example...if I have a face called \"Biddy Sans\" and I'm using Microsoft
    Word, can I hit command-B and Word knows to access \"Biddy Bold\" from the family
    instead of outlining it? \r\n\r\nOr is this a totally unrelated question?"
  created: '2007-02-07 14:20:56'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: .
  created: '2007-02-07 16:32:49'
- author:
    name: Plaintype
    picture: 111000
  body: "biddy, i'm in no way as experienced as nick, adam and the other people that
    have joined this thread so far, but, yes, font naming is crucial for the usability
    within the applications. if you have two fonts \"biddy sans\" and \"biddy sans
    bold\" and they are not within the same family, and/or \"bold\" has not been checked
    when creating the font, word won't access the real bold style and electronically
    fatten the regular one instead. adobe applications, however, just wouldn't allow
    to use a bold style. you would see the bold font as a separate font in the fontmenu.\r\n\r\n\r\n//
    alex"
  created: '2007-02-07 20:21:23'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "It's related. You need to follow the recommendations I posted in order for
    your style-linking to work properly. \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2007-02-07 20:27:47'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Nice...thanks Adam...again with the save! :)
  created: '2007-02-07 20:44:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'm glad Microsoft has made naming so complicated with their quaint nuclear
    family conception of typography. (So very bourgeois, pronounced \"Bur-joyce\",
    of course).\r\n\r\nIt gives me the opportunity to charge my clients big bucks
    for making the large-family, cross-plaform font solutions they require.~\r\n\r\nI
    could do without the hair-tearing though (metaphoric term, hair already dispensed
    with).\r\n\r\nYesterday I was making an OpenType font family of two, Regular and
    Light. How gay.\r\nBut the damn thing wouldn't even work in InDesign on OS X --
    it kept giving me two separate menu entries. Somewhere in the labyrinth of code
    is Wintel stuff that has infected my Mac and its apps, some \"logic\" saying \"what,
    no bold? -- therefore the lightest weight must be regular, as well as the regular
    regular,\" or some such thing.\r\n\r\nThe only way I could get it to work as a
    single menu entry was was by naming the light weight \"Fine\" and giving it a
    manual numerical value of 250, and giving the Regular a manual value of 600. That
    produces two entries on PCs, but you get Light as a separate \"family\" there
    anyway.\r\n\r\nThanks, Thomas and Typophile! -- an earlier thread here helped
    me sort that out.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-07 22:45:23'
date: '2007-02-03 10:38:14'
title: Font naming system

---
