---
author:
  name: satya
  picture: 111785
body: "<a href=\"http://www.100besteschriften.de/\">The Best Hundred of All Time</a>\r\n\r\n\u2022\tHelvetica\r\n\u2022\tGaramond\r\n\u2022\tFrutiger\r\n\u2022\tBodoni\r\n\u2022\tFutura\r\n\u2022\tTimes\r\n\u2022\tAkzidenz
  Grotesk\r\n\u2022\tOfficina\r\n\u2022\tGill Sans\r\n\u2022\tUnivers\r\n\u2022\tOptima\r\n\u2022\tFranklin
  Gothic\r\n\u2022\tBembo\r\n\u2022\tInterstate\r\n\u2022\tThesis\r\n\u2022\tRockwell\r\n\u2022\tWalbaum\r\n\u2022\tMeta\r\n\u2022\tTrinit\xE9\r\n\u2022\tDIN\r\n\u2022\tMatrix\r\n\u2022\tOCR
  A und B\r\n\u2022\tAvant Garde\r\n\u2022\tLucida\r\n\u2022\tSabon\r\n\u2022\tZapfino\r\n\u2022\tLetter
  Gothic\r\n\u2022\tStone\r\n\u2022\tArnhem\r\n\u2022\tMinion\r\n\u2022\tMyriad\r\n\u2022\tRotis\r\n\u2022\tEurostile\r\n\u2022\tScala\r\n\u2022\tSyntax\r\n\u2022\tJoanna\r\n\u2022\tFleischmann\r\n\u2022\tPalatino\r\n\u2022\tBaskerville\r\n\u2022\tFedra\r\n\u2022\tGotham\r\n\u2022\tLexicon\r\n\u2022\tHands\r\n\u2022\tMetro\r\n\u2022\tDidot\r\n\u2022\tFormata\r\n\u2022\tCaslon\r\n\u2022\tCooper
  Black\r\n\u2022\tPeignot\r\n\u2022\tBell Gothic\r\n\u2022\tAntique Olive\r\n\u2022\tWilhelm
  Klingspor Gotisch\r\n\u2022\tInfo\r\n\u2022\tDax\r\n\u2022\tProforma\r\n\u2022\tToday
  Sans\r\n\u2022\tProkyon\r\n\u2022\tTrade Gothic\r\n\u2022\tSwift\r\n\u2022\tCopperplate
  Gothic\r\n\u2022\tBlur\r\n\u2022\tBase\r\n\u2022\tBell Centennial\r\n\u2022\tNews
  Gothic\r\n\u2022\tAvenir\r\n\u2022\tBernhard Modern\r\n\u2022\tAmplitude\r\n\u2022\tTrixie\r\n\u2022\tQuadraat\r\n\u2022\tNeutraface\r\n\u2022\tNobel\r\n\u2022\tIndustria,
  Insignia, Arcadia\r\n\u2022\tBickham Script\r\n\u2022\tBank Gothic\r\n\u2022\tCorporate
  ASE\r\n\u2022\tFago\r\n\u2022\tTrajan\r\n\u2022\tKabel\r\n\u2022\tHouse Gothic 23\r\n\u2022\tKosmik\r\n\u2022\tCaecilia\r\n\u2022\tMrs
  Eaves\r\n\u2022\tCorpid\r\n\u2022\tMiller\r\n\u2022\tSouvenir\r\n\u2022\tInstant
  Types\r\n\u2022\tClarendon\r\n\u2022\tTriplex\r\n\u2022\tBenguiat\r\n\u2022\tZapf
  Renaissance\r\n\u2022\tFilosofia\r\n\u2022\tChalet\r\n\u2022\tQuay Sans\r\n\u2022\tC\xE9zanne\r\n\u2022\tReporter\r\n\u2022\tLegacy\r\n\u2022\tAgenda\r\n\u2022\tBello\r\n\u2022\tDalliance\r\n\u2022\tMistral\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: FlorianCH
  body: "\u2026 as exhaustively seen and discussed on every single German blog \u2026"
  created: '2007-02-04 09:36:41'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "\u2026 but not on the English ones!"
  created: '2007-02-04 11:54:11'
- author:
    name: FlorianCH
  body: "\u2026 agreed, Dan. And what a clever piece of promotion it is \u2026"
  created: '2007-02-04 12:02:01'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Out of the 100, which one is the most space-saving and easiest on-the-eyes
    for papers and which one for Screen?\r\nThanks"
  created: '2007-02-04 12:02:34'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Florian: It is great promotion. I admire FS Berlin for the excellent work
    that clearly went in behind this project.\r\n\r\nAziz: Off-hand, I can't say which
    are the most space-spacing there for print. Maybe ITC Officina or Swift? Also,
    I'd have to look at the list again, but I think that all of the typefaces were
    originally intended more for use in print than on-screen. This is sort of a traditional
    typography thing. \r\n\r\nAnd for the eyes? I think that that is very subjective.
    I can't give you an answer :-( The famous grotesks, however, probably are not
    the ones that are best for your eyes. Maybe something more humanist? "
  created: '2007-02-04 12:55:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">easiest on-the-eyes for papers \r\n\r\nSatya, this is so influenced by size,
    measure, leading, paper and press that you can't give a simple answer. For example,
    not to pick on your country, but my wife is struggling with a book printed India
    because it has such poor readability. \r\n\r\nIt is cleanly printed in Adobe Garamond
    10.5/12 at a measure of 24 picas on paper with a huge amount of show-through.
    If it were Adobe Garamond 12/14 at a comparable measure for that size and on more
    opaque paper, you would find it hard to beat that for readability. But as it is,
    it is a headache-inducing horror. \r\n\r\nThis poor readability is because of
    a combination of things. First, Adobe Garamond has a small x-height and so 10.5,
    which would be fine in many other types, is a bit of a problem. More than that,
    the show-through is so bad that any type could be a problem. Moreover, it is exacerbated
    by the fact that the design doesn't keep a consistent baseline grid. This makes
    the show-through appear irregularly between lines, and gives an 'out of focus'
    look to the type, in spite of the fact that it is cleanly printed. \r\n\r\nThis
    is an extreme case, but it shows the difficulty of giving a definitive answer
    on readability. There are somewhat similar problems on what type is most economical.
    A the lower case alphabet of one face may be shorter at 10 point than another,
    but that doesn't mean it is necessarily more economical. The wider font, set at
    a smaller size, with equal line spacing, may be more readabile. And since readability
    is probably influenced by how dark the type looks, which is in turn influenced
    by leading, everything gets rather complicated. \r\n\r\nFor exploration of all
    this see The Complete Manual of Typography by James Felici, or Book Typography
    by Mitchell & Wightman. I am finding the latter particularly informative. It is
    rather expensive so you might ask your university to get it, if they don't already
    have it. \r\n\r\nAll that being said, there are types which have problems as text
    types. For example my pet hate is Helvetica/Arial used as text type (small size,
    extended text) for print. While it is fine as far as readability used as a display
    type, I think it is horrible to read as text type. But many of the great text
    types, like Garamond, Times, Baskerville, Caslon, etc. work extremely well at
    text sizes, though each ideally is handled a bit differently, according to its
    distinctive characteristics. "
  created: '2007-02-04 14:56:49'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Does anyone know if there's a chance of this being translated into English?
  created: '2007-02-04 18:20:17'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Satya, thank you so much for posting this; I was unaware FontShop.de had
    done this and I must admit it is <em>very</em> much more elegant than <a href=\"http://www.100types.com/100types.com.intro.html\">my
    attempt</a> at a very similar thing.\r\n\r\nChris, FWIW, my version is in English;
    however only some of the information overlaps because \r\n\r\na) it's based on
    the <a href=\"http://www.tdc.org/reviews/typelist.html\">\"The Top 100 Types of
    All Time?\"</a> list at the TDC site, rather than best seller lists compiled by
    the FontShop from their sales/search data.\r\n\r\nb) I did all the research for
    my site by myself (with a lot of help, admittedly) but I don't have the resources
    for either research or website production that the FontShop does.\r\n\r\nAziz,
    the the most space-saving one out of the 100 listed (at my site) would probably
    be <a href=\"http://www.100types.com/100types.com.96compacta.html\">Compacta</a>
    for display work, or <a href=\"http://www.100types.com/100types.com.41bellgothic.html\">
    Bell Gothic</a> \u2013 but both of these evolved for very specific purposes (good
    condensed types for general text setting are now quite plentiful among the large
    hybrid families). Or check out <a href=\"http://www.100types.com/100types.com.27minion.html\">Minion</a>.
    The 'easy-on-the-eyes' thing is as William says, quite subjective, but for on-screen
    work there is <a href=\"http://www.100types.com/100types.com.68base9and12.html\">Base
    Nine & Twelve</a> in that list.\r\n\r\nWilliam <em>...my pet hate is Helvetica/Arial
    used as text type (small size, extended text)</em> Berkson, please be aware that
    this 100types site is only in beta testing stage so far!! Feedback to date includes
    the comment that, yep, the text is too small : 0 "
  created: '2007-02-04 23:32:56'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Ben - I think you're off to a good start with this. Pretty interesting. The
    thing that interested me most was the timeline, which would be terrific if you
    can find a more elegant way to present it. \r\n\r\nIt's obviously a labor of love
    - cool\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-02-05 02:47:48'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: I don't get it. What makes Optima, for example, "better" or "greater" than,
    say, Dante, Albertina, Trump, or Galliard?
  created: '2007-02-05 02:54:27'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Thanks Paul. Very kind of you.\r\n\r\nmail k? Feel free to make your own
    list. In doing so you'd likely realise that all such lists are necessarily compromised
    by their very nature. I'll confess it's also my kneejerk reaction whenever I see
    'the 100 all time best <em> whatever</em>'... usually with restaurants, hotels,
    movies, books and cds. That's why Paul Shaw put a question mark in the title of
    the original list. But specifically, Optima was judged to be more innovative as
    a design than the other types you mention by the people (TDC members) that he
    asked; you could say it broke the mould of what a sans serif could be at that
    time. "
  created: '2007-02-05 02:55:14'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Optima also has had more commercial success. This is a subjective "better,"
    but it is a measure that can be taken into account when trying to create a ranking
    (which is kind of silly for typefaces anyway, even though I love lists like that
    ;-D  ). Sales data was once of three factors that FontShop used when compiling
    their list.
  created: '2007-02-05 05:38:52'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: ">Does anyone know if there\u2019s a chance of this being translated into
    English?\r\n\r\nI've posted the wish at fontblog.de. We will see\u2026"
  created: '2007-02-05 07:29:38'
- author:
    name: hitext
    picture: 109818
  body: "@ Aziz: I believe that Erik Spiekermanns FF Info is both ... space saving
    and made for paper & displays per definition. See: http://www.100besteschriften.de/53_Info.html#a53\r\nInfo
    was made for D\xFCsseldorf airport orientation system first, and later the family
    was extended with a text-version for printed matter."
  created: '2007-02-05 09:11:14'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: 'Thanks. I picked Optima at random: I''d be equally perplexed if it were the
    one left out. I was just trying to understand the criteria.'
  created: '2007-02-05 12:10:03'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: ">Does anyone know if there\u2019s a chance of this being translated into
    English?\r\nJ\xFCrgen Siebert from fontblog.de has answered \u2013 fontshop.com
    will do an english version of it. "
  created: '2007-02-05 15:12:43'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "When I first saw this there was a translation (admittedly in babelfish English).\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-02-05 16:24:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> fontshop.com will do an english version of it.</em>\r\n\r\nHopefully
    with tabular figures properly tabbed."
  created: '2007-02-05 18:04:14'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "<em>fontshop.com will do an english version of it.</em>\r\n\r\nHooray!\r\n\r\nDan
    thanks for confirming the sales data as one of the criteria. I really like the
    fontshop list \u2013 for a start it has many more tasty contemporary faces in
    it ; D\r\n\r\nmail k, you happened to pick Optima, but in my case I couldn't believe
    the absence (from the TDC list) of News Gothic or Trade Gothic... everyone makes
    their own list sooner or later."
  created: '2007-02-06 01:02:54'
- author:
    name: mjpatrick
    picture: 111908
  body: I'm not a fan of Top 100 lists (or Best 100), but I do agree with the majority
    of what's listed here. I'm sure there are some omissions and inclusions some would
    argue over, but I think it's still a pretty good list.
  created: '2007-02-06 01:30:16'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: 'Problems: Which Garamond does the list refer to? The "real" Garamond or the
    Jannon Garamond? Adobe? And which Caslon?'
  created: '2007-02-06 03:14:26'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Ben, I love your list!\r\nhttp://www.typeoff.de/?p=129"
  created: '2007-02-06 05:38:11'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">Problems: Which Garamond does the list refer to? The \u201Creal\u201D Garamond
    \r\n>or the Jannon Garamond?\r\n\r\nFrom the text on the website, it seems to
    refer to the real Garamond. \r\nhttp://www.100besteschriften.de/2_Garamond.html#a2\r\n\r\nThe
    first revival mentioned there is Stempel Garamond, which was based on a specimen
    of letters cut in part by Claude Garamond. ITC Garamond and Adobe Garamond are
    also mentioned."
  created: '2007-02-06 05:42:15'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: We are indeed working very hard to bring the 100 Best Typefaces to English-speaking
    folk.
  created: '2007-02-06 08:24:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>everyone makes their own list sooner or later.</em>\r\n\r\nNot me.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nThis
    is a good excuse for a marketing promotion, like they say by referencing Rolling
    Stone, type can be just as massive as music or movies.\r\n\r\nHowever, they may
    have shot their bolt by mixing up sales, panel preferences and historical import
    into one big \"best\" category -- separately, the 100 list could have been rolled
    out for a couple more years. After all, you only get one shot at the 100 best
    of all time."
  created: '2007-02-06 09:00:17'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Dan thanks very much for that; but it's really not <em> my </em> list, and
    as I said above it's a lot less graceful than the FontShop.de effort. I just saw
    something already out there that I thought could be expanded upon. Apparently
    Paul was spoofing all those millenium lists that were around in 1999 \u2013 which
    might also explain why it's unranked.\r\n\r\nBrad's question about the 'real'
    Garamond reminds me of Paul Hunt's post here at http://typophile.com/node/30080"
  created: '2007-02-06 12:37:46'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: ":) More stuff to discuss\r\n\r\nI just played around a bit with the list,
    because i was bored :) \r\n\r\nWhen you count the placment of the types by one
    designer over the sum of his types listed in the Fontshop-list you gain following
    result.\r\n\r\nEric Gill = (9+36):2 = 22,5 \r\nAdrian Frutiger = (3+10+65):3 =
    26\r\nErik Spiekermann = (8+18+53):3 = 26,3\r\nTobias Frere-Jones = (14+41):2
    = 27,5\r\nHermann Zapf = (11+26+38+90):4 = 41,25\r\nMorris Fuller Benton = (12+64+74+85):4
    = 58,75\r\n\r\nSo in my list Eric Gill is the best typedsigner of all time.\r\n\r\n(it
    was a stupid idea... I know)  :)"
  created: '2007-02-06 17:28:06'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "On a similar note: being fed up with the overall presence of Times in Polish
    publications, some four years ago I made a subjective list of 60 \"Times replacements\"
    for a Polish website: \r\nhttp://dtp.art.pl/nietylkotimes.html\r\n\r\nI've only
    considered font collections widely popular in Poland (Bitstream, Linotype, URW,
    Adobe), so the list only includes classics. Obviously, many excellent typefaces
    from smaller foundries are missing, so are many newer typefaces as well as such
    that were missing Polish diacritics. Because the list was supposed to gather \"Times
    replacements\", it's obviously lacking sanserifs, scripts etc. \r\n\r\nI categorized
    the potential use of those typefaces into popular literature (beletrystyka), magazines
    (czasopisma), high-profile editions (wyd. eleganckie), daily newspapers (prasa
    codzienna). I must admit that I'm still a great fan of the Linotype legibility
    series, hence the inclusion of Aurora, Textype, Ionic 5, Impressum, Gazette, Corona
    and Olympian in my list. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-06 18:22:29'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: 'Steven: Actually your list indicates that Hermann Zapf is the best type designer
    ever, with 4 in the top 100 and 3 in the top 40. Much better than conceding it
    to Gill with a lousy 2 in the top 100.'
  created: '2007-02-06 18:55:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "However, this list should be merged and purged with the 100 WORST list.\r\nAlso,
    Gill wouldn't make the Hall of Fame, under the Rose* exclusion principle.\r\n\r\n*Peter
    Edward Rose, baseballspieler."
  created: '2007-02-06 18:59:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The best type designer ever is Francesco (Griffo) da Bologna. His genius
    defined the printed lower case as we know it, so he is the innovative and most
    influential. He would need an asterisk to Alcuin, the scribe, though, who codified
    the Carolingian miniscule. I recently saw the exhibition of oldest Bible manuscripts
    at the Smithsonian, and you could really see what the historians' shouting is
    all about, so to speak. The Irish monks introducing the word space into latin
    script was one huge step in readability. And when I saw Alcuin's actual work,
    I was blown away: there it was, the lower case, strong, open, humanist, contemporary
    to today. No doubt at all why Jenson and Griffo took it as their model.\r\n\r\nps.
    Maybe you could make a case for Jenson, but the debate would be between those
    two, nobody else. The question of what is the best design is different. And there
    Garamond and others would come in. \r\n "
  created: '2007-02-06 19:11:04'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: 'I wonder what the honorable mentions were... they had to have some difficulty
    leaving a few faces off, I''m sure. '
  created: '2007-02-06 19:18:43'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Have a look at the individual jury lists for honorable mentions.
  created: '2007-02-06 19:23:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, I would opt for Jenson as definitive, on the basis of alphabet shapes,
    for AFAIK, it was his influence which standardized the \"h\" to be like the \"n\",
    i.e. with a straight right leg.\r\n\r\nA nod must be given to G.G. Trissino, for
    promoting v and j. That was in the 16th century.\r\nAlso, props to those who dismissed
    the long s, and introduced lining figures (around 1800).\r\n\r\nThese constitute
    alphabetic design, therefore more significant than mere typeface design.\r\nBy
    that logic, Tzar Peter the great is The Man. However, he wouldn't make it to the
    Hall of Fame either, having tortured and killed his son. "
  created: '2007-02-06 20:20:39'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: ":) No.1\r\nBefore the people buying too much Helvetica Neue at linotype\u2026\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fontfeed/archives/helvetica_alternatives.cfm\">A
    Newsletter</a>\r\n\r\n:) No.2\r\nSimilar faces to Helvetica, like Akkurat are
    not mentioned. Ok, i understand, Akkurat is not available at fontshop.\r\n\r\nResume
    \u2013 don't take that stuff to seriously.\r\n\r\nPS\r\nI enjoyed the \"100 beste
    Schriften\" really!   "
  created: '2007-02-06 20:26:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Nick, I was choosing Jenson and Griffo not because of alphabet reform, but
    because of their getting the concept that by departing from the hand written form,
    and sculpting the letters to have more even color than hand writing, one could
    create a more readable script. To me that was the key breakthrough in type design,
    as opposed to hand written alphabets.  '
  created: '2007-02-06 21:07:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, surely by that criterion, Sweynham & Pannartz made the decisive move.\r\n\r\nI
    wasn't talking about alphabet reform per se, but about definitive \"topological\"
    designs which fixed the standard latin alphabet shapes. That's somewhere between
    alphabet reform and proportional design.\r\n\r\nBy topology I mean the number
    and kind of bezier points which define a minimal (skeletal) alphabetic form."
  created: '2007-02-06 21:59:48'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Wasn't there someone from Subiaco that even predates Sweyn & Pann?
  created: '2007-02-06 22:24:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I''m not so concerned here with final fixing of latin shapes but of a new
    sense of the possibilities of sculpted type as opposed to hand writing. Looking
    at the examples of Sweynham & Mannartz in Harry Carter''s book, they don''t cut
    the mustard. They are more calligraphic, and clumsy to boot. Jenson and Griffo
    are way more typographic, and more elegant, and that is why they are continually
    revived. '
  created: '2007-02-06 22:41:19'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I'd agree with you William. When I was reasearching the history of the roman
    letterform I decided that Swey&Pann as well as Sobiaco hadn't reached a final
    form.
  created: '2007-02-06 22:42:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Not the Subiaco, which was S&P's first Italian type, but their second, the
    Rome type.\r\nThat was the first \"humanist+sculpted\" typeface."
  created: '2007-02-07 00:00:18'
- author:
    name: admmoon
  body: "\r\nTrying to address several people's questions, here, so bear with me.\r\n\r\nI
    have several favorites, but readability has a lot to do with the medium. On screen
    readability is not the same as printed by any means. For printed media in large
    blocks of text, I suggest Baskerville or Garamond. Large bodies of text should
    be in a serif font.\r\n\r\nI would rank the top 10 fonts for printed text (large
    bodies of text) this way (favorite to least favorite).\r\n1. Garamond (take your
    pick - I like JG Garamond, though it is only currently in True Type and hard to
    find.  I would also say try Adobe Garamond or Garamond Premier Pro)\r\n2. Baskerville
    (In particular MBaskerville, Berthold Baskerville, Baskerville Win95 BT, Baskerville
    Bookprint or New Baskerville).\r\n3. Book Antiqua\r\n4. Georgia\r\n5. Goudy Old
    Style\r\n6. Acanthus\r\n7. Caslon\r\n8. Atlantix\r\n9. Bauer Bodni\r\n10. Century
    Schoolbook\r\n\r\nAs for a top 100, I do not agree with the list above at all
    for some, but that is sort of the point.  I think everyone with have their own
    list of top 100 fonts.  Doubtless many people would very much differ with my top
    100 list and I am sure there are many that will differ with my top 10 list above.
    \ Thus, give the ones mentioned a try and pick your own.  \r\n\r\nBut in the category
    of more unsolicited suggestions...\r\n\r\nFor titles or fancy text I would say
    go with:\r\n1. Bernhard Modern\r\n2. DeVinne\r\n3. Tiffany\r\n\r\nFor a sans serif
    you can't go wrong with Arial, but Swiss is also really nice.\r\n\r\nIn a pinch,
    for a serif font, Dutch is also good. I tend to avoid CG Times, Times and Times
    New Roman if I can, because it is just WAY over used (my opinion), plus I do not
    find it that easy to read. I have much less eye fatigue reading Garamond or Baskerville.\r\n\r\nOn
    screen I find that Helvetica, Swiss, Sans Serif, Arial or Verdanda to be easily
    readable.  If you are using an old picture tube monitor, these will be better
    for you.  For those of you that have a flat panel or high definition flat panel
    monitor, try the open type (in windows they render better on the screen than true
    type fonts for most people) Dutch, Goudy Old Style or Georgia.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    the space saving fonts.  The space saving fonts generally are relegated to the
    condensed fonts, such as some condensed Garamond font or something like that.
    \ Times New Roman is one of the most space saving fonts around without being a
    condensed font, but I dislike the Times family.  Recently, but unfortunately still
    very hard to find, there has been a Baskerville developed with the same rough
    width as Times New Roman.  The result is a font that is more readable than Times
    but saves space like times.  The font is called (brace yourselves for the imaginative
    genius of the name) Baskerville Times.  In my opinion it is the most space saving
    font for the level of readability out there."
  created: '2007-12-19 00:27:08'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Some of the entries on Paul Shaw's TDC list make more sense to me. Some of
    them, not the whole list. At least it includes Memphis, Neuland and Fette Fraktur.
    Neuland and Fette Fraktur alone are arguably two of the all-time greats. The Fontshop
    list has a number of pointless double entries in the form of revivals. Why leave
    out Memphis and venerate Rockwell when that face owes so much to Memphis? Mrs.
    Eaves is sweet, but it too is indebted to John Baskerville's original roman face.
    The Fontshop list includes too many recent successes. C\xE9zanne---gimme a break.
    It's a very trendy hand-written script face but not great type design and vastly
    overrated. DIN, Interstate---no, sorry, they're just very trendy. Don't confuse
    fashionable with great design. \r\n\r\nThe \"many more tasty contemporary faces\"
    on the Fontshop list is a pleasant touch for short-sighted typographers and the
    easily-persuaded, much like the NME reader polls that rate Radiohead and Queens
    of the Stoneage along with the Beatles amongst the \"greatest bands of all time\".\r\n\r\n<em>...they
    may have shot their bolt by mixing up sales, panel preferences and historical
    import into one big \u201Cbest\u201D category</em>\r\n\r\nYep-yep-tep. More useful
    and meaningful top 100 font lists could be compiled based on sales alone, aesthete
    panel ratings alone, historical value alone, and so on.\r\n\r\nI get the impression
    this is a marketing exercise rather than an objective and meaningful list.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2007-12-19 04:36:05'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Some of the typefaces on admmoon's list are clones of much better-known original
    works. (In the case of the SSI fonts Acanthus and Atlantix, at least some versions
    were illegal knock-offs that were withdrawn from the market.)\r\n\r\nBook Antiqua
    > Palatino\r\nAcanthus > Galliard\r\nAtlantix > Minion\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-12-20 08:08:10'
date: '2007-02-04 09:10:46'
title: The Best Hundred

---
