---
author:
  name: Dr MOON
body: "Hello all,\r\n\r\nI have just been assigned to produce an essay on ethical
  design for college and i would be interested to know your views for my research.
  I would be very grateful if you could assist me by answering the following questions
  or by giving me any opinions that you have:\r\n\r\nWhether you are prepared to design
  for charities for free or if you would demand a fee? \r\n\r\nWould you design for
  a firm that goes against your own personal beliefs? Or is money more important to
  you than your beliefs?\r\n\r\nAny response would be much appreciated! Thanks"
comments:
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Q1. I too do a lot of volunteer work for charities and create for them. However,
    some are prosperous and wouldn't allow me to design for free (thank you!!!) but
    I charge them flat rates and much less than I would one of my not-for-profit customers.\r\n\r\nQ2.
    I once designed for a small company in NY - they wanted a rip-off Nike logo. I
    felt so bad that day, I couldn't sleep -- and when they came in the next day to
    pick up the work - I asked them to leave. I remember one guy pulling out dollar
    bills - and I told him it wasn't about the money. I felt that I had sunk so low.
    I just couldn't live with myself. I do remember I had my office door open when
    I asked them to leave, and the business next door heard my pleas -- and came in
    to \"help\" out. We were a very friendly building on E. 44th St. But that's off-topic.\r\n\r\nWhat
    is difficult about your question - is most won't know until they are in that situation.
    Mine came when the end of typesetting shops was near -- I had payroll, bluecross
    and so many other expenses to consider, it is why I even talked to those jokers.
    But in the end, I just couldn't do it."
  created: '2007-02-07 12:32:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have done and will continue to do work for charities that I believe in.
    I get leary when solicited by strangers though. It is sad that there are con-men
    out there who scam people by pretending to be charities.\r\nI would not do any
    work for shady outfits. I am not clear on what is meant by \"against my beliefs\".
    It would be a case by case thing. If it bothered me, I would not do it. I do not
    believe in any religion but would not turn down work for a religious group. I
    don't believe in suntan shops and think they are silly but I would not turn down
    work for them. I would certainly turn down work for racist or hate groups and
    for gun lobby groups like the NRA. Certainly forget any criminal or sleezy work.\r\n\r\nThe
    litmus test is, would I be willing to show my kids the work.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-07 14:41:16'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Whether you are prepared to design for charities for free or if you would
    demand a fee?\"\r\n\r\nNot sure what the ethical slant on that question is. Doesn't
    seem to be an ethical-centric question to me.\r\n\r\nBut, the answer, of course,
    is 'it depends'. ;0)\r\n\r\n\"Would you design for a firm that goes against your
    own personal beliefs? Or is money more important to you than your beliefs?\"\r\n\r\nI
    think there's two angles to take:\r\n\r\n - pick and choose your work and only
    work for companies you feel meet your moral and ethical standards\r\n\r\n - accept
    the fact that we are a commercial service provider and that the goal is to give
    the customer the best of what they ask for independant of any moral and ethical
    standards of the company.\r\n\r\nThe latter is more akin to law. A lawyer is committed
    to representing the client regardless of their moral and ethical views of the
    person.\r\n\r\nI don't think either one is more wrong/right than the other.\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "another angle on these very good questions is the overall issue of what
      we are a part of: consumerism and disposability, the commodification of desire,
      the impact of the products and services we help to promote, the creation and
      maintenance of identity-based illusions: coolness, hipness, cleanly drawn facades,
      etc.  i feel there may be no clear answer to these questions; only debate, controversy,
      survival issues, the inevitable politics of the free market, and the infinite
      complexities of culture itself.\r\n\r\nbut the extent to which we participate,
      select, and respond might make a difference.\r\n\r\nrecommended reading: \"captains
      of consciousness\" by stuart ewen. \"commodify your dissent\" and \"the conquest
      of cool\" by thomas frank. \"no logo\" by naomi klein. \"emotional branding\"
      by marc gobe. \r\n\r\ni am not endorsing the opinions in any of these books.
      i recommend them as food for thought."
    created: '2007-02-07 17:50:43'
  created: '2007-02-07 17:37:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The latter is more akin to law. A lawyer is committed to representing
    the client regardless of their moral and ethical views of the person</cite>. \r\n\r\nThat's
    not a good analogy. Lawyers often represent people who appear to be just this
    side of pure evil, only to be exonerated through something the lawyer turns up,
    sometimes after a conviction. Designers are in a very different position; designers
    don't defend people accused of committing unethical acts, designers <em>become
    complicit</em> in said acts. The designers behind Joe Camel and the Kool penguin
    made a lot more effort to sell cigarettes to kids than the tobacco executives,
    whom simply provided the funding and collected the profits. The law firms that
    represented the tobacco companies only got involved after the fact."
  created: '2007-02-07 17:51:05'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Q1. Depends: if I've approached them because I'm already a supporter and
    I'd like to help, I look at it as my volunteer contribution.  If they approach
    me out of the blue like any other client, I might do it for a reduced fee if I
    sympathize with their cause.  If I don't sympathize with their cause, I would
    either say no or refer them to someone else if I thought they might want to get
    involved.\r\n\r\nQ2. I don't take money for work/causes that violate my sense
    of ethics. Had to once when I was young and desperately poor, and was sucked into
    something that morphed into a situation that was borderline illegal and spent
    a lot of money getting my name off it.  Never again."
  created: '2007-02-07 18:17:51'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "1. My last design job was working for next to nothing a nonprofit whose ideas
    I supported passionately. It's one of the shining starts of the nonprofit world,
    and dozens of people work there, for free, year round. They took advantage of
    me, treated me like crap, and from here on out I'm following Sagmeister's idea:
    nonprofits I like get a discount, but nothing free, because if they're not paying
    they have little reason to care about a designer or his/her work. \r\n\r\n2. It
    all depends on the client. Clients that really do shirk their responsibilities,
    such as Exxon refusing to pay for cleaning up oil spills, are definitely out.
    Work that's just blatantly wrong, like tobacco advertising, is also out. But I
    would happily do work for Kraft foods, even though it is part of Altria, because
    there's a big difference in selling food and selling addictive carcinogens. To
    paraphrase Chris, I wouldn't do anything that I won't be proud to show to my potential
    kids."
  created: '2007-02-07 18:27:18'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>But I would happily do work for Kraft foods, even though it is part of
    Altria, because there\u2019s a big difference in selling food and selling addictive
    carcinogens. </em>\r\n\r\nI'm not sure that's the example I'd use -- Kraft makes
    some \"food\" that's of questionable nutritive value, like Velveeta....  :-P "
  created: '2007-02-07 18:33:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Is Velveeta actually food or is it just sqeezable yellow plastic?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-07 18:49:50'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Commodify Your Dissent is terrific Ch. Love it! But it's not by one author.
    It's a series of essays from The Baffler, a magazine out of Chicago. Great book.\r\n\r\nAt
    one time I viewed it as the next logical step after Situationalism.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-02-07 19:19:55'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Is Velveeta actually food or is it just sq(u)eezable yellow plastic?</em>\r\n\r\nIt's
    got some minimal percentage of a milk-derived product in it, but I suspect it's
    less than the <a href=\"http://www.arnos.com.au/swallow/\">casein-based knitting
    needles</a> I own."
  created: '2007-02-07 19:28:54'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "1. I am a student. I am poor. BUT! I need to build up my portfolio, and helping
    out a good cause is much better than working for spec or not designing anything
    at all.\r\n\r\nAs to when the good money starts rolling in from all of the Apple
    ads that I'll be commissioned to create? I dunno. Certainly if it were a cause
    that I felt passionately about.\r\n\r\n2. Situational morality is the bane of
    western civilization."
  created: '2007-02-07 19:40:43'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"another angle on these very good questions is the overall issue of what
    we are a part of: consumerism and disposabilility...\"\r\n\r\nI think that's a
    very good point.\r\n\r\nIn the end, as 'commercial artists' we're really an essential
    part of the consumerist machine. That, alone, has it's own set of ethics to consider.\r\n\r\nI
    once did a web site for a national bank's Political Action Committee. I didn't
    agree with supporting their cause politically, but I got a lot out of providing
    them with a web site that met there needs that they were thrilled with. Depending
    on how wide/narrow you focus your 'ethics lens' on a project can make a huge difference
    in how you perceive the project.\r\n\r\nWould I do another web site for a corporate
    PAC? I don't know. \r\n\r\n\"Altria\"\r\n\r\nA great example of Point of View.\r\n\r\nIs
    Altria the ultimate American company? Giving the masses what they truly want:
    Tobacco, beer and processed cheese? Or are they pure evil? ;o)\r\n\r\n\"Situational
    morality is the bane of western civilization.\"\r\n\r\nIt's what our civilization
    was built upon! ;o)"
  created: '2007-02-07 20:00:30'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>Whether you are prepared to design for charities for free or if you
    would demand a fee?</cite>\r\n\r\nI'll go with \"it depends.\" How poor am I,
    what's the charity, and how much work is involved?\r\n\r\n<cite>Would you design
    for a firm that goes against your own personal beliefs?</cite>\r\n\r\nIf the firm
    went far enough against my personal beliefs, I wouldn't work for them. Even in
    a full-time job situation, I have discovered that there are things I could be
    asked to do that I would say \"no\" to, for ethical reasons. If that means risking
    getting fired, or (in some extreme case) quitting, I'd be willing to do that.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, I speak from the comfortable position of having a good income and some
    savings and so on. I am not about to judge people who take work for clients they
    are less comfortable with because they feel that's what they need to do just to
    make a living. I'm just grateful that I don't have to make those kinds of choices.\r\n\r\nThe
    parallel to the legal system doesn't do much for me, btw. The legal system is
    predicated on lawyers taking cases for people who are or may be guilty. I don't
    think the universe of design and typography would fall apart if designers and
    typographers followed their conscience in accepting clients.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "thanks to paul cutler for the correction: \"commodify your dissent\" is
      an anthology edited by thomas frank and matt weiland.\r\n\r\nas for charity
      work, my own guidelines are as follows: i never work for free. i think it's
      a bad precedent. but in certain cases i have exchanged services for specific
      things: a membership, the right to stipulate a specific and visible credit,
      or enough creative freedom to assure a portfolio piece for me (which can be
      worth more than a fee), but even then i work at cost.\r\n\r\nif a charity or
      not-for-profit can't meet me there i try to refer them to someone else, usually
      younger and hungrier...\r\n"
    created: '2007-02-07 20:56:17'
  created: '2007-02-07 20:39:15'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Ch - Since I enjoyed that book so much I will look for the other one you
    mentioned.\r\n\r\non topic:\r\n\r\nLike I stated in another thread - I'll work
    for free for my Mom or if it's just a bunch of creatives having fun - like the
    type challenges here.\r\n\r\nCharities are well funded and in most of them the
    money goes into administration. Non-profits are the same. If a charity that I
    believed in could show me the numbers indicating that almost all of the monies
    collected went to the cause - I would consider it.\r\n\r\n#2 All firms of any
    size go against my beliefs somewhere so the answer is yes.\r\n\r\n#3 If money
    was more important to me than my beliefs then my belief is I would be rich. So
    no.\r\n\r\nLife is not black and white. I take things on a case by case basis\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-02-07 21:21:31'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "1. I have and would continue to work pro-bono for the right charity. In general
    I prefer to make donations in money than time but they are interchangeable on
    some level. I admire those who spend time working at soup kitchens, rebuilding
    tsunami or hurricane damaged regions, volunteering at schools and orphanages.
    I don't really do that but don't mind donating my time or design skills - again
    for the right cause.\r\n\r\n2. I have never knowingly worked for a company that
    violated my ethics. Although I can't say for sure when I don't always know who
    the corporate parent is. But I design books and *in general* I would say that
    books do more good than harm in the world - except perhaps to the trees. I have
    steered clear of advertising/branding for some of these reasons."
  created: '2007-02-07 21:27:39'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'It''s interesting that "ethical design" only ever seems to be discussed in
    connection with the choices a designer makes in serving (or not) the extremely
    good, eg. a charity, or extremely evil, eg. "Googexxonoburton", client. It''s
    almost as if a designer can only be evil/unethical if the client is evil/unethical.
    How about designers that are evil/unethical regardless of clients - the type that
    blag ideas and fonts, or charge the client for hrs spent playing Gears of War?    '
  created: '2007-02-07 21:53:11'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: You mean like the ones who set up bogus contests?  ;-P  I think we've all
    had enough of that discussion for awhile.
  created: '2007-02-07 22:01:29'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "And to follow up - when I do pro-bono or reduced rate work for a charity
    or nonprofit I am very clear about the limits as to how far I'm willing to extend
    myself.\r\n\r\nThe worst case scenario was a client I had (yes, Ch you know the
    one) who believed that his personal pet project was so noble in purpose that I
    should be honored to work for him. It was NOT a charity, NOT a non-profit, the
    money was going straight into his pocket (I'm not even aware of a percentage going
    to charity) yet he had all the high-minded pretensions that it was and that therefore
    I should work for him out of the goodness of my heart."
  created: '2007-02-07 22:16:30'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Yeah, I've had one of those too.  B*st*rd almost drove me into bankruptcy....
  created: '2007-02-07 22:21:23'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>It\u2019s interesting that \u201Cethical design\u201D only ever seems
    to be discussed in connection with the choices a designer makes in serving (or
    not) the extremely good, eg. a charity, or extremely evil, eg. \u201CGoogexxonoburton\u201D,
    client.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think it's a symptom of the times. Economic populism is
    seeing a resurgence both from politicians looking for easy votes (John Edwards,
    Hugo Chavez) and media outlets looking for quick ratings (CNN). This leads back
    to the old altruism is good, everything else is profiteering mindset, under which
    nonprofits are saintly and anyone actually trying to <em>earn</em> money is, at
    best, suspect. Given how badly America has been screwed by phoney economic conservatives
    in the last six years, it isn't entirely surprising or unwarranted."
  created: '2007-02-08 00:44:55'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "I am always amazed how many people out there believe that someone that is
    gifted with talent to design should - give their work away.\r\n\r\nThe starving
    artist is over - we are all part of the commercial graphic arts stage now... \r\n\r\nThat
    same person wouldn't ask their plumber, doctor, dentist, etc. to give it to them
    for free -- or would they?\r\n\r\nI know a lot of very wealthy people - that now
    that I think about it - would! It is how they have kept their money."
  created: '2007-02-08 00:50:41'
- author:
    name: mjpatrick
    picture: 111908
  body: "<cite>Whether you are prepared to design for charities for free or if you
    would demand a fee?</cite>\r\n\r\nFor free only if it's something I not only believe
    in, but have total creative control over. The charities must agree on a a quick
    thumbnail sketch I do on-site. No revisions allowed afterwards unless it's something
    critical (such as the date for a flyer changing). They are allowed to request
    what details they want in the beginning, but not after I start the job. \r\n\r\nExample:
    I designed flyers for the local firemen who had a fundraising event to buy new
    equipment. This was immediately following 9-11. They gave me full creative control
    and lots of respect and appreciation, and they got a great flyer. The only changes
    made were adding some program times. \r\n\r\nWhat was only intended to be an overnight
    illustration freebie wound up becoming one of the most talked-about portfolio
    pieces I've ever had, and it actually helped me get work at one point (the employer
    had friends at NYFD).\r\n\r\n<cite>Would you design for a firm that goes against
    your own personal beliefs? Or is money more important to you than your beliefs?</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    depends on how much it goes against your beliefs and how much you are willing
    to compromise to make a living. If it's something I wouldn't be proud to show
    to anyone, there's no use doing it.\r\n\r\nI turned down an offer to design a
    web site selling pornographic materials. I did not seek out the work. I had done
    completely unrelated artwork for one of the company's investors, and that apparently
    led him to ask me if I'd be interested in doing the job. The money offered for
    the work was awful hard to ignore, but I just couldn't do something like that."
  created: '2007-02-08 01:10:39'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I am always amazed how many people out there believe that someone that
    is gifted with talent to design should - give their work away.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    really irks me is that this is so much more of a problem with the visual arts
    than with many other fields. Why is it that so many people who can see the importance
    of art and design don't want to pay for it, but those same people don't even think
    about asking a plumber or electrician to work for free? It seems that the idea
    that artist don't need money is rooted in the leftist fine art world and its cult
    of genius, but given how little interest in, or respect for contemporary fine
    art people appear to have, why are they still carrying around the notion of the
    starving artist who only deserves a payoff after a lifetime of privation?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "i'm not sure what jpad means by \"leftist fine art world and its cult of
      genius\" - you'd have to show me a survey of collectors' politics before i'll
      buy that one. i think the problem is rooted more in the mysterious process we
      specialize in. the bulk of our efforts is unseen or misunderstood. the hours
      spent in sketching, deliberation, revision, and pixel surgery.\r\nour commitment
      to a personal quality standard is hard to quantify, and often what we end up
      with looks \"easy\". perhaps people don't see graphics the way they hear music.
      generally they don't see the same level of expertise and practice behind the
      product.\r\n\r\ni work mainly in motion graphics and broadcast design. almost
      every piece i produce requires music. it has amazed me for years that composers
      usually get (small) royalties everytime the piece goes on the air - on top of
      their original composition fee - but my payment is one shot, end of story. or
      is it because they have a union ?"
    created: '2007-02-08 14:53:31'
  created: '2007-02-08 04:57:23'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: It's how it gets licenced -- shades of EULA -- more than anything else.
  created: '2007-02-08 14:57:08'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Everyone is a designer/artist. It defines us as humans. Some of us took the
    time to hone those skills and turn it into a career.\r\n\r\nSo, the scrapbooker,
    kitchen decorator, quilter, woodworker, etc...these are all design skills that
    people have. \r\n\r\nFurthermore, bad design typically doesn't have an immediately
    noticable side effect. If I screw up the plumbing, I have wet floors. If I screw
    up the wiring, I get electrocuted. If I screw up the taxes, I go to jail. Screw
    up the logo on the brochure? Meh. Life goes on. ;o)"
  created: '2007-02-08 15:06:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My daughter is a composer of music, they get shafted too. The folks with
    the money make the rules and surprisingly enough, the rules seem to favor them.
    ;-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-08 15:07:55'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Used to drive me crazy in publishing that everyone from the president of
    the company to the receptionist had an opinion on the design but god forbid I
    tell the marketing department how to sell. Not that I have the first idea how
    to sell a book, but I don't think they knew the first thing about design either
    and that didn't stop them from weighing in on my job.\r\n\r\nThat combined with
    the fact that anybody with a computer and Comic Sans thinks they can put together
    a newsletter. \r\n\r\nAnother pet peeve is a client telling me \"this should be
    pretty easy for you, no? Shouldn't take very long.\" As Ch says, how do they know? "
  created: '2007-02-08 16:01:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\u201Cthis should be pretty easy for you, no? Shouldn\u2019t take very long.\u201D
    \r\n\r\nThat is client code for \"you are a real bozo if you can't knock this
    out fast and very cheap!\"\r\n\r\nBetter known as the guilt squeeze.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-08 16:31:30'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>i\u2019m not sure what jpad means by \u201Cleftist fine art world and
    its cult of genius\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nI was referring to the leftist side of
    fine arts that perpetuates on the belief that artists are better off spending
    their lives in poverty while  trying to generate some wild new concept than they
    are just making work that people actually want to buy. These are the old hippies
    in schools and museums who scowl every time an artist who makes a good living
    from commercial work walks by.\r\n\r\nRegarding musicians, isn't part of the reason
    that they don't get paid well that there are more of them out there then there
    are jobs? Musicians are like comic book artists\u2014only the famous ones can
    make much money, because there are hundreds of people begging to get those jobs."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "> These are the old hippies in schools and museums who scowl \r\n> every
      time an artist who makes a good living from commercial \r\n> work walks by.\r\n\r\nwell,
      i get your idea but i don't think this generalization is really accurate. most
      of the art students i know want to be rich and famous art stars. the market
      is driven by rich collectors who i suspect are not exactly \"lefty hippies\".
      i think the conflict is more theoretical: the pretense of \"fine art\" vs. commercial
      art, but it's not strictly about money or poverty.\r\ni've also noticed more
      and more gallery artists contributing (selling) their work to pop cultural design
      - especially CD covers. i'll try and collect some examples. later. gotta work."
    created: '2007-02-08 17:29:23'
  created: '2007-02-08 16:38:45'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "The trick, if you're an artist, is to do innovative stuff, not necessarily
    \"commercial,\" <em>and</em> make a living.\r\n\r\nOne of the sad parts is that
    part of the oppression of artists comes from people like gallery owners, who tell
    artists that they can't make their work too expensive or \"no one will buy it.\"
    \ \r\n\r\nA gallery owner who's selling some of my work suggested that I price
    my items at one level, whether it's in his window or I'm selling directly to clients.
    Well, if I charge $40, there's a big difference between getting that directly
    or paying him 40% off the top.  \r\n\r\nOTOH, if I don't price my work so that
    I can at least break even on supplies and pay myself something reasonable as an
    hourly wage, why would I bother even trying to sell it in the first place?  "
  created: '2007-02-08 16:49:03'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Beck uses fine artists - Marcel Dzama, Tim Hawkinson to name a few - for his
    CD covers.
  created: '2007-02-08 17:46:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Whether you are prepared to design for charities for free or if you would
    demand a fee?</em>\r\n\r\nI have done work gratis, for green groups.\r\nCharity
    starts at home: SOTA (organizer of Typecon) is a non-profit organization which
    would not be possible without volunteers. The same is true of many industry organizations.
    However, there is \"payback\" in non-monetary ways -- but the same is true of
    all pro bono work.\r\n\r\n<em>Would you design for a firm that goes against your
    own personal beliefs? Or is money more important to you than your beliefs?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    once declined to work on a campaign for Litton, which manufactured the guidance
    system in cruise missiles. However, designing a logo for a \"green\" warship is
    a much tougher ethical dilemma. http://typophile.com/node/31243"
  created: '2007-02-08 17:56:36'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "<em>Whether you are prepared to design for charities for free or if you would
    demand a fee?</em>\r\n\r\nPart a), nope - never! Part b), I understand a 'fee'
    can be paid in many forms, ie. an exchange of goods. I always demand something
    in return for my work.\r\n\r\n<em>Would you design for a firm that goes against
    your own personal beliefs? Or is money more important to you than your beliefs?</em>\r\n\r\nPart
    a), hell no! Part b), hell no!\r\n\r\n@ Thomas <em>The legal system is predicated
    on lawyers taking cases for people who are or may be guilty.</em> \r\n\r\nIn my
    time I have retained Corporate lawyers, IP lawyers, and Real Estate lawyers. All
    of which were hired to protect my ideas and designs. And yes I think an 'idea'
    is the soul of an Individual, and the very seat of democracy - something we should
    protect and not let be run over nor given away for free.\r\n________\r\nHiro"
  created: '2007-02-08 18:13:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "jpad, I don't think you know any real hippies. The art business is a business
    like any other. There are both wolves and lambs and wolves in sheep\u2019s clothing.
    Like any other field, there are pretentious people, nay-sayers, and phonies. You
    have to take people one at a time for who they are. That is a lot tougher than
    generalizing but it is at least more fair. Yes, there are some Ivory Tower types
    at universities who get paid to teach art and be critical of others, but this
    is not the majority (but they tend to be the noisiest ones).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-08 18:17:08'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Not to mention the way the art world has changed in the last 30-40 years.
    It's a lot less friendly to \"idealists\". New York in 2007, where it is virtually
    impossible to find an affordable apartment anywhere you'd want to live and the
    overhyped art world is dominated by vast international fairs, white box galleries
    and collectors, is a wildly different place than NY of the 70s and 80s when artists
    lived in subsidized lofts in SoHo and there was an energetic and experimental
    cross pollination between the various art disciplines. And you could visit all
    the major galleries in an afternoon! Today's art stars seem unfortunately, to
    be the gallerists and guest curators, not the artists themselves.\r\n\r\nIMHO
    it'll take a major economic downturn and the wallstreeters moving onto the next
    big thing before the art scene in NY recaptures it's vibrance. I'm glad I was
    young & idealistic (and broke) in a different era!"
  created: '2007-02-08 18:28:35'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "1) Yes. Or, No, but I'll make exceptions.\r\n\r\n2) I work 2 ways. As a graphic
    designer, I do as I please, higgledy-piggledy. I choose projects and clients on
    the very limited knowledge I have of their ethics, and warm rapidly to like minds,
    as a relationship matures. I tend to give people the benefit of doubt, as I am
    aware that my own opinions and ethics change over time. And being repellent is,
    well, repellent. I try to be a moderate fanatic.\r\n\r\nAs !Exclamachine, I am
    not normally targeting individual clients. I put something out there, and it sinks
    or swims. I have limited control of the use of my faces. Nevertheless, I can affect
    my ethics regardless of the source of any funds, and make the purchasers aware
    of that. In order ensure !Exclamachine's agenda is funded, 5% off the top goes
    to Sabre International, and more goes to supporting Typosium and another non-profit
    project, along with a considerable amount of time.\r\n\r\nIf AcmeWorldCorp Inc.
    wants what I offer, they can buy my world view with it.\r\n\r\n\u2042\r\n\r\nAmerica
    is good for the advancements of the arts only through strength in numbers. I know
    too many proud citizens who have never been to any show but SFMOMA's \"The Art
    of Star Wars\". The general tendency of many Americans only to respect financial
    success, to shun elitism, and to choose casual individuation paired with from-the-hip
    analysis makes it a poor spawning ground of high culture. But dang if there aren't
    enough of us to have an impact anyway."
  created: '2007-02-08 19:05:56'
- author:
    name: mjpatrick
    picture: 111908
  body: "\r\nI like fine art and the process of creating it, but it's not as fun for
    me as designing commercial art for the masses. I'm sure that sounds shallow/dull/uninspired,
    but in truth I actually thrive working under the corporate umbrella. My heart
    is in that kind of work and the fun part for me is seeing how far I can push the
    limitations I'm given... yes, I am a silent design rebel in starched clothing.
    :-) And that is the statement that I wish to make, and I make it almost every
    time.\r\n\r\nOne lady I did design work with had spent some time illustrating
    shoes and furniture for store catalogs (I believe Sears Roebuck, IIRC). She was
    one of the best fine artists I'd ever worked with, and of course with the abilities
    she had, drawing shoes was a very narrow scope of her talents. I never considered
    her as some kind of corporate sell-out or someone who compromised her beliefs
    for cash. She was simply making a living and it certainly didn't affect her ideals
    or her talents. She taught me so much."
  created: '2007-02-08 23:31:24'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Sam\r\n\r\nIt's great that you've been assigned this as a subject (judging
    from the clouds of ethical dust this post has stirred up); I don't know when you
    have to have it done by, but my tuppence worth on this subject would include <a
    href=\"http://www.papress.com/bookpage.tpl?isbn=1568985827&cart=117101787221725\">Fresh
    Dialogue 6: Friendly Fire,</a> convened by James Victore for the AIGA and published
    by Princeton Architectural Press. A very interesting read.\r\n\r\nTo answer your
    questions\r\n1. I did work for free and/or volunteer assignments for the charities
    and non-profits I supported when I was a student in London. It was a privilege
    (I also worked for some of them on a salaried basis, but not as a designer. That
    was just work). These days I would charge a fee \u2013 if only to avoid the faffing-around
    factor.\r\n2. To do something you don't believe in for the sake of money is to
    relegate yourself to the point of prostitution, whatever your line of work is.
    Having said that, I've done commercial work that was 'less than noble' because
    the noble thing to do at the time was pay my bills and feed my family. But I've
    never put myself in the position of having to fire a client outright on ethical
    grounds.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-09 11:14:46'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "1. I've donated time to charities for work, and write it off at the end of
    the year. My mom runs one, so it's kind of expected that I do something for her
    when asked. I never mind. I've also done work for a few no-profits while working
    in a studio and some of them really take everything to the nth degree and it's
    torture. \r\n\r\n2. What I find morally unacceptable and the work I do have not
    crossed paths. I've come up against unethical and that's enough for me to walk
    away from a project, however.\r\n\r\nI'm sure you already know, but professional
    organizations like AIGA and GDC provide ethical guidelines for designers as well,
    which is worth checking out, if only to have another view of 'ethics'."
  created: '2007-02-09 17:36:22'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: '[Edit]'
  created: '2013-02-16 12:09:00'
date: '2007-02-07 11:24:57'
title: Ethical Design

---
