---
author:
  name: adamburton
  picture: 112220
body: "Hello, this web site seems like a really good place.\r\n\r\nI would appreciate
  your advice on setting type in InDesign. I have only just started using this software,
  I have previously only used Photoshop for typography because I have not had such
  specific requirements until now. So I am trying to learn the software and this is
  my first problem. Hopefully you can help.\r\n\r\nI print an art magazine. It is
  a very simple little thing, I normally print 100 or 200 copies and it is all screenprinted,
  letterpressed, rubber stamps et cetera. I do not call it a 'zine' because it is
  not, though it does have a 'cheap' aesthetic.\r\n\r\nThe next issue is going to
  be printed on a sheet of oversize A2 paper. One side will be screenprinted and the
  other side will be some kind of lithographic process. Hmmm... I am probably explaining
  too much but it does say to provide as much information as possible in the forum
  guide and I am enjoying talking about the magazine, so sorry...\r\n\r\nOriginally
  I was going to letterpress the other side (the non screenprinted side) but having
  decided to make 500 copies and realizing that I will probably not be able to find
  enough type I have switched over to using a computer and plate print.\r\n\r\nThe
  layout of this side will be similar to a traditional newspaper. I am going to have
  a header with the title and then eight columns running the full length of the page.
  Each column will be two inches (12 ems) wide and the gutters will be 1/8th of an
  inch. The full width of the print area will be 16 7/8 inches. I am probably going
  to be using 10pt Baskerville (which might raise another question later on). The
  page will be full of type, closely packed together and printed as black as possible;
  I want the columns to appear as eight black drips of tar or oil running down the
  page.\r\n\r\nAnyway, my apologies again, here is my question, almost:\r\n\r\nI want
  the type to be justified in the columns but not in a typical sense. I will have
  to put an image here to show you a vague example of what I mean:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/type_5318.gif]\r\n\r\n-\r\n\r\nDoes
  this help? Basically the idea is that I am going to be using InDesign in the same
  way that I would be if I were using letterpress, rather then evening out the spacing
  between each word to justify the type I am just going to put all of the space before
  the last word in each line. I am not sure how this is going to look but the intention
  is for  it to appear like a crack running down the column, it does not work particularly
  well in the code example above but the idea is there.\r\n\r\nI know that you can
  'Insert White Space' in InDesign; em spaces, en spaces, thin space et cetera so
  that is useful. But I want to know if it is possible to calculate the width of each
  line so that I can work out exactly how much space I need to insert before the last
  word so that the columns are justified perfectly. (?)\r\n\r\nDo you know how to
  do that?\r\n\r\nThank you for your help."
comments:
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "If you don't mind dealing with every line manually, you could perhaps use
    tabulator before the last word to flush it right?\r\nThat's just the first idea
    that comes to my mind, there might be a better solution to this."
  children:
  - author:
      name: adamburton
      picture: 112220
    body: So fast! Thank you but... Um... What is tabulator?
    created: '2007-02-08 15:04:19'
  created: '2007-02-08 14:59:31'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "The solution I'd use would be to put in a ghost polygon, tinker the size
    of it so that the text flows around it, and ensure that hyphenation isn't turned
    on. \r\n\r\nPerhaps the question I would ask you is \"why do you want to space
    it this way?\"  It's a real pain to read!"
  created: '2007-02-08 15:06:22'
- author:
    name: adamburton
    picture: 112220
  body: "Thank you Linda, but unfortunately again I have to ask...\r\nWhat is a 'ghost
    polygon.'?\r\n\r\nTo answer your question, I just want it to look strange, legibility
    is not my first concern."
  created: '2007-02-08 15:08:32'
- author:
    name: miss c
  body: "I would do the following:\r\n\r\nOpen up your tabs window (type > tabs).\r\n\r\nPick
    the little arrow third along and then simply tab the last word so it justifies
    to the right. \r\n\r\nIt could be that simple, unless I've misunderstood your
    query...[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tabs_3626.jpg]"
  created: '2007-02-08 15:12:13'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Adam, InDesign lets you create shapes somewhat (although nearly not as sophisticated)
    as Illustrator.  You create one (in this case, I'd use a very tall and narrow
    rectangle), ensure that it has a text wrap put around it, and then go crazy adding
    points on the text wrap bit to nudge words over to fill spaces as necessary.  \r\n\r\nWhen
    you're done, you ensure the rectangle is \"invisible\" by making sure that \"none\"
    is checked for both line and fill.  You still have to tinker a lot by hand, but
    it's easier than mili's solution, particularly if you end up changing some of
    the text you're setting.\r\n\r\nRead InDesign's help stuff on text wrap, and it
    should be pretty self-evident."
  created: '2007-02-08 15:18:45'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Nice one, Linda! I knew someone would have a more flexible way of doing this.\r\n\r\nMiss
    c explaned my solution more clearly. The tab key is the one below \xA7 (arrow
    and /)\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-08 15:33:40'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Thanks, Mili -- I've had to do so many text wraps over the years, I could
    probably do it in my sleep....  ;-)
  created: '2007-02-08 15:36:34'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "Both Fay and Linda's methods should work, but I thought I'd add my own preferred
    method. If you turn on \"justify all lines\" (<em>not</em> \"justify with last
    line aligned left\"), you can add what's called a flush space (Type>Insert White
    Space>Flush Space) before the last word on each line. The cool thing is that the
    flush space will grow to whatever size is necessary to completely justify the
    line, without adding space between your other words. I think that would be quickest
    of all these methods, although it's still a manual process.\r\n\r\nTo make it
    work best, you should decide before adding the flush spaces exactly which words
    you want per line, then add forced line breaks (shift-return) at the end of each
    to ensure that no words change position. I also deleted the final space on each
    line to make it all behave in an orderly fashion. Hope this helps.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-08 15:58:13'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: I used to use that one, but found that, invariably, silly people wanted to
    muck around with the words and then I had to go back and mess around with fixing
    the spaces again.  Discovered that using the text wrap thing was much faster when
    changes were made.  ;-)
  created: '2007-02-08 16:01:57'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: Sounds familiar, Linda. It would be so nice if the text sent for a layout
    was the final version (pigs might fly). I do a fair bit of packaging design, and
    am always baffeled by the changes in the ingredients or nutritional values at
    such a late stage.
  created: '2007-02-08 18:05:23'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: ";-)  You mean like \"oops, salt should be at the top of the list of ingredients\"?
    \ \r\n\r\nBeen down that road: it's amazing how many clients think that the proof
    stage is when they should be making changes...."
  created: '2007-02-08 18:10:56'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: 'In my experience there''s a big pyschological factor in this, and very much
    human nature rather than technical: Somehow in manuscript or in galley proofs,
    the clients don''t notice it as much, even if they <em>want</em> to. (I find it''s
    true for myself in these situations, too.) There is a powerful aura of formality
    about the page proofs (or whatever the final stage is, depending on project) that
    has the extraordinary ability to make things jump off the page. Seems to me there''s
    an extra antenna that runs up out of the top of everyone''s head, that has been
    retracted and unused in earlier proof stages. Maybe on a subconscious level we
    realize that this is "speak now or forever hold your peace"??'
  created: '2007-02-08 18:20:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the extraordinary ability to make things jump off the page\r\n\r\nRight
    on, Bruce. This is the magic of well set type. ...as well as the last  bit of
    the apple thing. \r\n\r\nLinda, say three times: I am serving the author, I am
    serving the author, I am serving author. {ducks flying egg} And should be paid
    well for it! {the egg missed by an inch}"
  created: '2007-02-08 18:25:48'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Bruce, you're absolutely right, of course, and I'll readily admit to being
    guilty of this one myself.  ;-)\r\n\r\nBill, the only problem with that is I am
    the author some of the time and can't resist the opportunity to tweak just one
    more thing.  (And thanks, I needed a good laugh!  But I'm not a thrower....)"
  created: '2007-02-08 18:39:39'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: The real answer is to design the type Flush Left Rag Right. InDesign will
    make the rag as good as it could get. Justifing small columns is just a disaster
    waiting to happen. The only way around it is to have a writer making edits of
    your copy to make it look right.
  created: '2007-02-08 19:57:14'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Adam, do you know of Phil Baines' early work? Seems to ring a bell with what
    you're intending.\r\n\r\n<em>I am probably going to be using 10pt Baskerville
    (which might raise another question later on).</em>\r\n\r\nWhich was...?\r\n\r\nAs
    for \r\n<em>There is a powerful aura of formality about the page proofs</em>\r\n
    \u2013 I hear that CTP plates are now referred to as 'metal proofs' in the printing
    trade!"
  created: '2007-02-09 11:29:23'
- author:
    name: adamburton
    picture: 112220
  body: "Hello everyone, thank you very much for your help, it is interesting to see
    how a discussion splits off in different ways.\r\nI am a beginner with InDesign
    and also with the rules of typographical layout in general so you will have to
    excuse me because I do not understand everything that you have told me and so
    I am going to have to ask a few questions to figure out which is the 'real answer'.\r\n\r\nmili:\r\nWhat
    do you mean by using a tabulator?\r\n\r\nmiss c:\r\nThank you but I could not
    get this to work, none of the four tabs seemed to affect the words at, except
    on the line below. I am probably doing it wrong so if you think that there might
    be a different way of explaining how to do it then I would appreciate it.\r\n\r\nLinda:\r\nI
    had a try with your 'ghost polygon' but it did not work. However I need to find
    out if the cellpadding (I can only talk in html) is adjustableable because that
    appeared to be the problem. The computer that I am at now does not have InDesign
    on it so I cannot work on it at the moment. I will let you know how it goes.\r\n\r\nauricfuzz:\r\nThis
    seems like a sensible suggestion but as above I have not been able to try it yet.
    I had seen the 'flush' space option in the Insert White Space menu and wondered
    what it was for, so thank you for revealing it to me; the help files that come
    with InDesign (on a Mac) do not give away much detail on the purpose of the tools
    available in the program, which has been a major part of my not being able to
    use it. I will give it a try.\r\n\r\nDan Weaver:\r\nI like the way you just swooped
    in like that with the 'real answer'. Earlier on today I had a couple of minutes
    to see if I could find anything to do with 'Flush Left Rag Right' in InDesign
    but I did not get very far. Would you mind Dan, if you have the time, explaining
    to me how I go about designing the type Flush Left Rag Right, I mean, what buttons
    I have to press... like I said, this whole process: software, vocabulary, way
    of working, is new to me, and although I have worked with letterpresses I usually
    cheat my way out of the problem and ignore (due to my ignorance) most of the rules.
    So an explanation would be very useful. Thank you.\r\n\r\nben_archer:\r\nI have
    not heard of Phil Baines but having looked him up on the web I see that he designed
    the typeface for the cover of Raw Creation, which is a book that I was looking
    at recently and enjoyed very much. Do you think that you could point me towards
    some kind of online resource where I might be able to find some of his early work,
    I am genuinely interested.\r\nMy other question, to do with Baskerville, well
    maybe I will start another thread for that because I do not want this thread to
    become too confused, so when I have done that I will put a link to it right here:\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://typophile.com/node/31300\">Black / Dark Typefaces, Um... Old Style
    (?).</a>\r\n\r\nThank you all again for your suggestions. I will keep messing
    about with it."
  created: '2007-02-09 13:04:00'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: "Adam my email is dgweaver53m@mac.com \r\n\r\ngive me your email address and
    I will give you a visual lesson about justification vs rag right."
  created: '2007-02-09 19:47:35'
- author:
    name: adamburton
    picture: 112220
  body: "Well having messed about with this for a while I am thinking about following
    auricfuzz's advice because I cannot figure out how to get ghost polygons or tabs
    or anything else to work.\r\n\r\nI have only just emailed Dan though and I am
    sure that he will have some useful advice.\r\n\r\nNow I just need to figure out
    how to force a line break and insert a flush space with one click of a button.\r\nDoes
    InDesign have Actions?"
  created: '2007-02-11 16:29:04'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Yes, the auricfuzz\u2019s version seems like a good one.\r\nUnder edit there
    is keyboard shortcuts, where you could allocate a preferred shotcut (say apple+1)
    for the flush space. The forced line break needs to go after the last word on
    the line, so an action might be a little difficult to build. Mind you, some script
    wizard is bound to figure that out."
  created: '2007-02-11 18:31:32'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Adam, online resource-wise I think you'll only see Phil Baines\u2019 more
    recent work and books (which have only a rather vestigal relationship to what
    you're attempting).\r\n\r\nThe early work which I was referring to was profiled
    in baseline magazine #11, the Bradbury Thompson issue, which was published by
    Esselte Letraset in 1989. According to the current <a href=\"http://www.baselinemagazine.com/\">baseline
    website</a> it is available but, as a very rare back issue, they'll want to charge
    you \xA350 for it.\r\n\r\nI've just tried out Reed's (auricfuzz) method for the
    flush space/forced justification and it will do what you want, but when he said
    <em> ...it\u2019s still a manual process</em> he meant exactly that (Indesign
    does have scripting but I can't think of a way to automate this)."
  created: '2007-02-12 08:46:47'
- author:
    name: adamburton
    picture: 112220
  body: "Hello Ben,\r\n\r\nsomehow, when you mentioned Phil Baines before I managed
    to completely forget that I work part time as a security guard in the library
    of an art and design university (where I am a student and) where I am at work
    right now.\r\n\r\nI just had a look for some Phil Baines books and it turns out
    I have actually read, or partially read, one of his books, Type & Typography.
    Also we have back issues of Baseline magazine in the office, which is where I
    am right now, and I just went to have a look, very excitedly, thinking that I
    would save myself fifty pounds but they only go back to Number 18! So no luck.
    Tomorrow, when the librarians are here, I will ask them if they have the older
    issues in the store downstairs or if I can get an inter library loan from another
    college so not to worry.\r\n\r\nRegarding Reed's (auricfuzz) method, I had a feeling
    it would be repetitive. I like those kind of tasks though because I feel as though
    I am doing something that the program was not designed to do and therefore it
    might look slightly interesting.\r\n\r\nIf you have any suggestions for a dark
    typeface that would suit this project (more details in the post) please have a
    look at my other question posted <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/31300\">here</a>.\r\n\r\nThank
    you everyone for your advice, it has been a useful and interesting experience."
  created: '2007-02-12 19:57:09'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Yes Adam, I'd be very excited too if I thought I could save myself 50 quid
    (especially for something I already owned), but Type & Typography is very good
    \u2013 well worth the money.\r\n\r\nI looked at the question and responses in
    the other post about a dark text face; it seems like you've painted yourself into
    a corner there.\r\n\r\nFor some reason I get the impression that you're looking
    for something more archaic, so I would have suggested <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/lanston/ltc-cloister/\">Cloister</a>.
    LTC is not the only foundry to put out a version of this, but theirs is probably
    the best contemporary cut.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-12 22:33:31'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "I haven't tested this, but what if you replaced all spaces but the last one
    in each line with fixed-width spaces; i.e., one of the Unicode code points in
    the U+2000 to U+200A range? (Pick the one that most closely matches the width
    of a \"real\" space, U+0020, in your selected font.)\r\n\r\nWhether this will
    work or not depends on how InDesign deals with those special space characters."
  created: '2007-02-12 22:44:02'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: "Adam send your address again since my email blocker knocked you out\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-13 21:10:21'
- author:
    name: enrico_limcaco
    picture: 109729
  body: "I believe this is a job for the right-indent character:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.creativetechs.com/iq/the_magic_rightindent_tab.html\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-11 04:53:31'
- author:
    name: mememe
  body: What you need to do is draw the shape you want the tear to look like, with
    either the straight line tool, or shape, and if you're using the straight line
    tool, you need to select all the lines you have created (but do not group, or
    you'll end up with a rectangle block!) once you've selected the drawn lines or
    the shape, use the text wrapping tool to the tightest wrap, and then justify the
    text and make sure 'hyphenate' is not selected (in the paragraph options box)
    and that should wrap your text around the shape just nicely! I hope this helps..
    :)
  created: '2009-06-18 10:30:03'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "Personally, I wouldn't bother with crappy justification (which most letterpress
    printers frown upon anyway) and explore other \"traditional\" difficulties of
    handset type.\r\n\r\nHere's a quick test:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fake_4989.jpg]\r\n\r\n1.I
    raised/lowered some letters a hairpiece away from the line.\r\n2. Rotated individual
    lines by a few degrees to simulate uneven leading and bad lockup in the chase.\r\n3.
    Added a tiny outline to some overprinted, and distorted some worn sorts.\r\n\r\nNaturally,
    this sort of thing is easier to do in Illustrator than ID.\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-06-18 20:32:47'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "You can also combine the above tricks with that awesome Shift+Tab trick!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fake2_4046.png]\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-06-18 21:10:35'
date: '2007-02-08 14:47:24'
node_type: forum
title: Justification advice in InDesign.

---
