---
author:
  name: miles
  picture: 110468
body: "Has anyone here moved to Vista yet?\r\n\r\nI'm very interested to hear what
  type users are experiencing with it, and the new fonts."
comments:
- author:
    name: James Scriven
  body: "I'm Mac and wont use windows, but I'd like to try their fonts. There's also
    some interesting new desing programs on the Windows website. . . not sure of the
    link. I'll try to find it. \r\n\r\n----------------------------\r\n\r\nBrad Hamilton:
    Why don't you get a job Spicoli?\r\nJeff Spicoli: What for?\r\nBrad Hamilton:
    You need money.\r\nJeff Spicoli: All I need are some tasty waves, a cool buzz,
    and I'm fine."
  created: '2007-02-08 18:31:09'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: The new 'design' apps are the Expression products. They look promising. At
    least there's someone left to compete against Adobe...even if it is Microsoft.
    ;o)
  created: '2007-02-08 20:09:27'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I'm very happy with the new CT rendering. It is light and can be exquisitely
    crisp compared to the ad hoc-only and heavy rendering of Quartz or the \"let us
    beat the type nearly to death with greys\" of CoolType. We now have a full spectrum
    of digital ink; Cooltype colors pixels that are 100% outside of the glyph outline
    on one end, and you need to try real hard to make sure there are no drop out pixels
    in CT on the other. :)\r\n\r\n\"and the new fonts.\"\r\nI have not had time to
    put them through a total pacing from 11 to 72, but this weekend, I'll have a full
    report. ;)"
  created: '2007-02-08 21:32:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I\u2019m very interested to hear what type users are experiencing with it,
    and the new fonts.\r\n\r\nVista Fonts: 290+MB, 712,000+ total glyphs, <STRONG>68</STRONG>
    new fonts, 191 fonts installed by default. "
  created: '2007-02-08 23:42:28'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I\u2019m Mac and wont use windows, but I\u2019d like to try their fonts.
    \r\n\r\nSo, out of interest, how much would you be willing to pay for them?  Assume
    a standard five cpu license. Feel free to wait for David's review before posting
    your price. ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-08 23:43:34'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Would $300 be an insult?
  created: '2007-02-08 23:56:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Would I be violating a EULA if I just bought Vista to rip the fonts off the
    disc and load them on my Mac?
  created: '2007-02-09 00:15:57'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Something tells me that you would be ... I'd guess they have something in
    the EULA about fonts only running on the same machine as the Vista Software.
  created: '2007-02-09 00:34:49'
- author:
    name: mjpatrick
    picture: 111908
  body: "What if you had Virtual PC installed on the Mac with a Vista OS installed?
    Although I'm not sure if they are allowing that... scratch that thought. \r\n\r\nI'm
    also wondering how many of Vista's fonts might come installed with the next version
    of MS Office for OS X... that is, if they plan on continuing support for it."
  created: '2007-02-09 00:40:03'
- author:
    name: James Scriven
  body: "I'm not sure about all of their new fonts, I have just been bbuilding interest
    in their clear type \"everything begins with the letter C\" collection. It's been
    pretty hard to find any valuable specimens and I have not tooled around with Vista
    at my office. . . so hard for me to conclude. \r\n\r\nTop of my head, I agree
    with Tiff, somwhere in that range.\r\n\r\n\r\nHere is the link for the expressions
    design programs. . .\r\n\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/design/work/Detail.aspx?key=expression\r\n------------\r\nBrad
    Hamilton: Why don't you get a job Spicoli?\r\nJeff Spicoli: What for?\r\nBrad
    Hamilton: You need money.\r\nJeff Spicoli: All I need are some tasty waves, a
    cool buzz, and I'm fine."
  created: '2007-02-09 16:40:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Thanks. Still no ''official'' word from Mac Office. My <STRONG>personal</STRONG>
    opinion is that there should be some <STRONG>easy</STRONG> and <STRONG>legal</STRONG>
    way for non Windows/Office users to get access to the C* fonts if they really
    want to/need to. '
  children:
  - author:
      name: James Scriven
    body: "\r\nI concur\r\n\r\n---------\r\n\r\nBrad Hamilton: Why don't you get a
      job Spicoli?\r\nJeff Spicoli: What for?\r\nBrad Hamilton: You need money.\r\nJeff
      Spicoli: All I need are some tasty waves, a cool buzz, and I'm fine."
    created: '2007-02-09 18:58:23'
  created: '2007-02-09 16:50:12'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Would I be violating a EULA if I just bought Vista to rip the fonts off
    the disc and load them on my Mac?\"\r\n\r\nDepends on who you ask. \r\n\r\nBut,
    I kind of doubt it would make a difference. I assume the EULA is box-centric rather
    than OS centric. Your 'mac' would 'own' the license, so it'd be fine for the fonts
    to be used on there.\r\n\r\n\"ersion of MS Office for OS X\u2026 that is, if they
    plan on continuing support for it.\"\r\n\r\nConsidering it's the biggest selling
    software product for Macs, I assume MS would have no problems continuing to sell
    it to us. ;o)"
  created: '2007-02-09 20:23:06'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: Legal issues aside, due to the nature of the new installer used by Windows
    Vista, ripping the fonts off the distribution disc would be... difficult.
  created: '2007-02-09 20:39:25'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: ">It\u2019s been pretty hard to find any valuable specimens\r\n\r\nyou can
    find some specimens of the fonts at this link\r\n \r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/links/news.aspx?NID=5759
    \r\n\r\ncheers \r\nmike\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-09 20:52:18'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Legal issues aside, due to the nature of the new installer used by
    Windows Vista, ripping the fonts off the distribution disc would be\u2026 difficult.</cite>\r\n\r\nSome
    nerd will write a *nix program that mounts the image as a readable file system
    and post it to Sourceforge. It's inevitable."
  created: '2007-02-09 23:47:12'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "<cite>Some nerd...</cite>\r\n\r\nGeek. The word is <cite>geek</cite>."
  created: '2007-02-10 00:09:12'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"you can find some specimens of the fonts at this link\"\r\n\r\nIf you're
    running Vista."
  created: '2007-02-10 00:34:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">If you\u2019re running Vista.\r\n\r\nThere are viewers for Windows XP ;-)
    follow the link."
  created: '2007-02-10 02:33:08'
- author:
    name: ALECEAST
  body: "No need for all that messing about - On the Intel Macs you have the option
    of running bootcamp or Parallels so you should be able to install Vista and copy
    the fonts. Don't ask me if that's legal though cos I don't know.\r\n\r\nBut I
    would imagine Vista fonts will become available for the Mac sooner or later. If
    you consider how many agencies recommended Verdana as a corporate font when creating
    identities, then it will only be a matter of time before those same agencies realise
    there's a new bunch of system fonts they can use to \"differentiate thier client's
    communications\".\r\n\r\n\r\nAl\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-12 10:43:08'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "Ascender Corporation licence Microsoft fonts, but pricing isn't public (although
    I've read it's $20-$30 per font) and I don't think they list all the Vista fonts
    yet:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.ascendercorp.com/msfonts/msfonts_productlist.html#Vista\r\n\r\nNB
    the Web Core Fonts package (Arial, Georgia, TNR, Trebuchet, Verdana et al) is
    still available for free legal download.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-12 14:31:05'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "I just got an upgrade today and even though sick I tried and finally succeeded
    to have it install the upgrade but I should have just nuked the drive. I'll have
    to reinstall everything including the wireless card. \r\n\r\nI'm scared very scared.
    It's also a bit too 'fluffy bunnies' \r\n\r\ntime to get a new laptop anyway,
    but I'm also scared of putting on a Mac Book Pro. \r\n\r\nZune is a good photo
    viewer and video viewer with a big screen and nice disk management. But I'm going
    to have to reinstal that too. \r\n\r\nBad news is Zune is Windows only (unless
    I guess if you have it installed on the intelMac.)\r\n\r\ni'm scared\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-12 19:30:15'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: Many experts believe switching to a new Windows version before the first Service
    Pack is released is risky.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Marbux
    body: "\"Many experts believe switching to a new Windows version before the first
      Service Pack is released is risky.\"\r\n\r\nMany experts believe running Windows
      at all is risky. :-)"
    created: '2007-02-15 21:39:12'
  created: '2007-02-12 20:16:45'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: I'm a software developer, and I've been using Windows Vista on my primary
    machine for the better part of a year now. I don't recommend upgrading to it unless
    it's part of a new system.
  created: '2007-02-12 20:22:22'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I\u2019m scared very scared. It\u2019s also a bit too \u2018fluffy bunnies\u2019
    \r\n\r\nA reference to ClearType being on by default? You could always switch
    to, Mac OS... 9 ;-)\r\n\r\n>time to get a new laptop anyway, but I\u2019m also
    scared of putting on a Mac Book Pro. \r\n\r\nWhat scares you? It's installed on
    a separate partition under bootcamp, how can that affect the OSX Partition?\r\n\r\n>Zune
    is a good photo viewer and video viewer with a big screen and nice disk management.
    But I\u2019m going to have to reinstal that too. \r\n\r\n...but uses an unhinted
    UI font displayed using regular antialaising. Does the fluff not bother you there?\r\n\r\n>for
    the better part of a year now. \r\n\r\nIt was only completed in october. I'd suggest
    replacing any pre-release verison with the shipping version.\r\n\r\n>I don\u2019t
    recommend upgrading to it unless it\u2019s part of a new system.\r\n>Many experts
    believe switching to a new Windows version before the first Service Pack is released
    is risky.\r\n\r\nBeen running the RTM version on a crappy Toshiba laptop for the
    past few months, and haven't had any issues or needed any new drivers. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-12 21:12:54'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "<cite>It was only completed in october. I\u2019d suggest replacing any pre-release
    verison with the shipping version.</cite>\r\n\r\nI thought it would be obvious
    that prior to the RTM version, I was using beta builds."
  created: '2007-02-12 21:19:07'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "well two days into it I'm finally at least connected to the internet. my
    Netgear WG511v1 is only a few years old but unsupported and doesn't work so I
    had to buy a new wireless card. So it's painful to upgrade. Also laptops, be careful
    not to lose your drivers or your touch pad is buggered. \r\n\r\nIt's going to
    take a good week to get it back to normal, but the OS is a bit how's your father."
  created: '2007-02-13 16:24:18'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Vince, can we get a cockney translation on that last bit? I've seen you use
    that before.
  created: '2007-02-13 17:22:15'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: 'it''s not cockney it''s and old saying, but in Manchester it means someting
    like weird. '
  created: '2007-02-13 20:16:05'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: 'it''s not cockney it''s and old saying, but in Manchester it means someting
    like weird. '
  created: '2007-02-13 20:16:07'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I've been gone ten years but my recollection was that a \"a bit how\u2019s
    your father\" was a reference to sex - how this relates to Vista depends on the
    Web sites Vinnie frequents. "
  created: '2007-02-14 03:22:49'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Yes the original expression is from the Victorians, referring to a man asking
    a woman if her father put on a chastity belt, as in 'how's your father' and she'd
    say 'he's very well thank you' I guess meaning she's up for a fiddle, \r\n\r\nbut
    in Manchester it now means something that's a bit dodgy. 'My Ruby was a bit how's
    your father'.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-14 17:54:13'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Back to Vista,\r\n\r\nI don't mind the OS... it's a bit refreshing. BUT I
    wouldn't add it to an old system (even my Alienware which was top of the line
    2yr 6m ago) \r\n\r\nIt's a bit like the System 7 roll out. \r\n\r\nthe Widgets
    are a good idea, oh that's Gadgets. But really this concept goes a long way back
    since in 1993 I remember several Microsoft employees who had a stock ticker that
    was floating in the corner of their Window 3.1 window. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/notcomic_6366.jpg]\r\n\r\nIronically
    Apple got rid of their trash can so how come MS has one by default? \r\n\r\nmy
    new favourite fidgets!!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/longwidget_6742.jpg]\r\n\r\nBut
    'alert level' according to who??"
  created: '2007-02-14 18:14:47'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: "But Vince, who writes comic book lettering on post-its? :^) Still, I feel
    sorry for you. What\u2019s the middle widget in the second image supposed to tell?
    Time?"
  created: '2007-02-16 07:48:10'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: Prayer times for Muslims.
  created: '2007-02-16 10:47:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> Has anyone here moved to Vista yet?\r\nI have upgraded and it's worth it.
    The system fonts, the default browser fonts, and reader fonts all look the same
    or better with Vista's CT. Since all I do on windows though is look at fonts,
    and use them, it's easy to do the upgrade. ;)\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m very interested
    to hear what type users are experiencing with it, and the \r\n> new fonts.\r\nI'm
    pleased l that the browser (IE.X?) still lets the user have control of the font
    calls, (via \"fonts\" \"Accessibility\" in the \"internet options\"). So, if you
    set the browser font to a C-font, and \"don't let web pages spec fonts\" all of
    them look about as good as each other, but much better than the defaults set by
    most html or browser settings.\r\n\r\n>I\u2019m Mac and wont use windows, but
    I\u2019d like to try their fonts. \r\nAside from the legal issues, you'll find
    that they are less Mac-adapted in their current form than Georgia or Verdana were,
    so, set Quartz to 6 for best results. The optimum size, though I only checked
    one, is likely to be \"13\" on the Mac. Otherwise, (i.e. Scaling up), they behave
    like any other unhinted TT in Quartz."
  created: '2007-02-16 17:58:56'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Vista messed up my Alienware, but I think it's more the hardware since the
    Alienware was fanstastic/crap, both many issues but lots of power and resolution.\r\n\r\nI've
    upgraded to a MacBook Pro. Installed Bootcamp>Win XP sr2 full>Mac hardware support
    drivers>Vista Ultimate upgrade.....\r\n\r\nhttp://vinceconnare.wordpress.com\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/392938396_a0ff892700_4648.jpg]\r\n\r\nand
    it's WOW"
  created: '2007-02-17 19:46:12'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "XP works fine on bootcamp/MacBook Pro. But...\r\n\r\nVista is not backwards
    compatible and probably won't work on anything but new. (very Apple System 7 like)\r\n\r\n-
    Apple's Sigma Tel audio drivers don't work in Vista (Sigma Tel doesn't support
    drivers or consumers)\r\n- Apple's Bluetooth drivers don't work in Vista\r\n-
    Apple's Startup disk in Control Panel doesn't work in Vista (you use the alt key
    on restart to select boot device).\r\n- Netgear's WG511v1.1 wireless network card
    don't work in Vista\r\n- Microsoft's Visual Studio .net 2003 doesn't install on
    Vista and isn't supported.\r\n- the SSH Client 3.2.9 non-commercial from http://www.ssh.com/
    doesn't work\r\n- Ipswich WS_FTP you need the commercial version with SSH support
    and the Vista upgrade for it to work.\r\n- FontLab 4.6 may not install on Vista
    (I couldn't get it to install but 5.0.2 is fine)\r\n- MS Font Validator works
    fine as long as you have .net 1.1 framework installed.\r\n\r\nthat's the list
    so far...."
  created: '2007-02-18 19:16:18'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "<cite>- the SSH Client 3.2.9 non-commercial from http://www.ssh.com/ doesn\u2019t
    work</cite>\r\n\r\nIf you need an SSH client for Windows (including Windows Vista),
    <a href=\"http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/\">PuTTY</a> is good
    -- and free."
  created: '2007-02-19 05:56:22'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: yes I know but I prefer Ipswich WS_FTP Pro which also has SSH support and
    another Vista upgrade. So I'm using that.
  created: '2007-02-19 16:11:53'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i guess this is the right thread... i just got my upgrade disk, but after
    hearing some horror stories, i don't think i want to upgrade my OS, but i DO want
    to be able to get the fonts, particularly the new [[Times New Roman]] which has
    been improved upon. Is it possible to find the font on the disk without installing
    the whole beast? Probably not, but just thought i'd ask...
  created: '2007-03-15 19:44:34'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: FileZilla also has SSH support... it's free. And apparently some of the new
    Vista fonts are available simply by updating your PowerPointViewer module to PPV
    2007. I just did, and got the new fonts!
  created: '2007-03-16 01:45:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Paul, the Vista EULA limits the use of the Vista fonts to when Vista  is running
    (exceptions for embedding and printer downloading) - however if you really want
    the latest TNR (version 5.0) then Monotype or Ascender should be able to license
    it to you.
  created: '2007-03-16 06:00:16'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "I've fixed all my Vista related issues when running on an Alienware Area-51M
    766. \r\n\r\nI had to upgrade Ipswich WS_FTP to Pro but that was good since it
    supports SSH. \r\n\r\nMain problem was the Nvidia driver, the upgrade needed an
    updated .ini file that tells the installer that the driver supports my video card.\r\n\r\nhttp://vinceconnare.wordpress.com/\r\n\r\nonce
    I fixed the video driver it was fine. The only thing I find now is Haupaugge's
    WinTV (which is a bit rubbish) doesn't work with the new Media Centre, WinTV boots
    on start-up and locks it from being used in Media Centre. But that's not a big
    deal.\r\n\r\nIt depends on what you want to do. I would think only in some very
    specific cases will you have issues with Vista.\r\n\r\nI like using MS Visual
    Studio 2003 for a lot things like webpages and some Python but 2003 isn't supported
    so I do my work on XP.\r\n\r\nThe other is I wanted to use a MacBook Pro as my
    main PC and Vista is too weird on that so WinXP works fine and that is what I
    had to put on that. But this is also not a normal requirement.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-16 09:56:43'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Wow I tried Parallel.. and tried to use my WinXP but the mouse died... So
    I wiped out the Bootcamp partition and started over with Parallel. Used Custom
    because first time the auto install only gives you 512mb RAM and a small amount
    of maximum disk space. You can set up 1.5gig of RAM and 50gig of disk space. \r\n\r\nVista
    works and the drivers work. You might need to install them manually within Parallel.
    \r\n\r\nIt's pretty good so far since you can flip to and from the Mac OS, it's
    better than the old VirtualPC of the 90s.\r\n\r\nThe only noticable thing missing
    is Aero, the new 3D modelling, so there are no see through windows. The Fridgettes
    work so you can have your prayer clock handy.\r\n\r\noops iSight camera isn't
    supported apparently oh well."
  created: '2007-03-19 13:48:59'
- author:
    name: lherrou
    picture: 111141
  body: "If you download the free MS PowerPoint Viewer, you'll get the Vista fonts
    installed on your system...\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?familyid=048DC840-14E1-467D-8DCA-19D2A8FD7485&displaylang=en"
  created: '2007-04-10 14:48:56'
date: '2007-02-08 17:59:17'
node_type: forum
title: Windows Vista

---
