---
author:
  name: artfarm
body: "What does everybody think about this Obama '08 identity?\r\n\r\nIt seems like
  ther are two versions, the funny gradient version on his website: [img:sites/default/files/old-images/obamalogo_3763.jpg]\r\n\r\nAnd
  a more geometric version for print:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/RS15643-2_3923.jpg]\r\n\r\nWhat
  typefaces are at the bottom?"
comments:
- author:
    name: artfarm
  body: 'p.s.: is it a motified times roman?'
  created: '2007-02-10 19:43:48'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: Perpetua (serif) and Gill Sans (sans)
  created: '2007-02-10 20:06:17'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: ">What typefaces are at the bottom?\r\n(the bigger pict) \"BarackObama.com\"
    -> Gill Sans MT\r\n\r\nedit: i had too much delay :)"
  created: '2007-02-10 20:12:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I don't think the ring-flag-sun thingy works. Too ambiguous. You don't know
    what the heck it stands for. Not what Obama needs :) \r\n\r\nAlso the '08 has
    some balance problems. It needs to have a slightly heavier weight, tighter or
    something. And it's crowding 'Obama' \r\n\r\nI hope he's not stuck with this.
    \ "
  created: '2007-02-10 20:33:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Poms, \r\nDelay come an' me wan' go home :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-10 21:28:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I like the \"Rising O\" dawn of a new America concept (as long as they lose
    the gradient). It is quite clear to me right away.\r\nI am sure that they chose
    the Gill for the circular \"O\" to make sense with the \"O\" rising in the logo.
    \ I am not sure why they need both a serif and a sans though .  This may become
    more clear as we see more of the campaign materials though. (I do like the tight
    08 as it seems to make a verbal rhythum.\r\n\r\nThis is the first political campaign
    with guts that I have ever seen in U.S. elections and I very much welcome it.
    Bravo Bama for getting away from the typical junk we always see!!!\r\n\r\nA big
    Thumbs Up for me,\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: \"O' say can you see...the dawn's early
    light\""
  created: '2007-02-10 21:40:59'
- author:
    name: dsb
    picture: 111042
  body: "I don't like the gradient version of the \"new dawn O\" as much either. I
    would try flipping the red and white stripes and loose the white outline when
    it appears on the red background to keep the same boldness that it has against
    the white background.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-02-10 22:09:00'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: give's me real hope in America!!!! it's been hell since I left in 2000...
    so go Obama!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  created: '2007-02-10 22:16:20'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: I love Obama's message, too. I don't care what his logo looks like. Maybe
    there are some things that are more important than visual branding.
  created: '2007-02-10 22:25:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Maybe there are some things that are more important than visual branding.\r\n\r\nThat
    is certainly true. Still the weakness of the Kerry-Edwards logo was echoed in
    the campaign. --Accident?\r\n\r\nI actually like it much better with the gradient,
    as it is clearly a sunrise. The red version above is generally much stronger as
    it is better balanced. Still, I think the graphic element is too cartoonish and
    weak. I hope Chris is right and it goes over well, but I have my doubts.  "
  created: '2007-02-10 22:35:13'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "@chris\r\nHehe, for my excuse \u2013 there is no delete-button (WHY?!) to
    delete postings like this, caused by men drinking some wei\xDFbeers till 23:34
    CET!\r\n\r\nCheers"
  created: '2007-02-10 22:35:19'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">Still the weakness of the Kerry-Edwards logo was echoed in the campaign.
    \u2014Accident?\r\n\r\nHere my very subjective opinion: The John Kerry campaign
    was weak. Their logo was also weak. Their campaign was not weak because of their
    logo. Even with the best logo in the world, it would have been just as weak, or
    maybe just a little less weak. But he still would have lost to George Bush.\r\n\r\nNow,
    on the other hand, that his logo was weak in the first place may have been just
    another symptom of his weak campaign! ;-)"
  created: '2007-02-10 23:03:28'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Edwards!\r\n\r\n________\r\nHiro"
  created: '2007-02-10 23:21:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">that his logo was weak in the first place may have been just another symptom
    of his weak campaign! ;-)\r\n\r\nYeah, Dan, that's what I was thinking. There's
    a lot of visceral, unconscious reaction to a candidate that has an effect, and
    their approving a weak looking logo to me was symptomatic. I am still upset with
    Kerry's miserable performance. \r\n\r\nI saw two reporters interviewed about their
    very interesting book on Clinton and the current president Bush. Surprisingly,
    they said the two shared some things that were key to their electoral victories.
    First, they didn't get rattled when they had a reverse, but continued strongly
    on their campaigns. Second, they both knew what they wanted to do as President,
    and could say so coherently and forcefully, in 30 seconds, 3 minutes and 30 minutes.
    Of course Clinton knew infinitely more about policy, but that is another issue.\r\n\r\nMy
    main concern about Obama is that he may represent a beautiful spirit but not clear
    policy. Aside from opposing the war, which is of course very important, we don't
    know what he wants or how he would govern.  "
  created: '2007-02-10 23:30:47'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I don\u2019t think the ring-flag-sun thingy works.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think that it's supposed to be the sun rising over a big field. Not a bad idea,
    given that the he will need to pick up some of the southern and midwestern farming
    states to win. "
  created: '2007-02-11 00:01:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Their approving a weak looking logo to me was symptomatic. </cite>\r\n\r\nI
    agree - but I would go further.\r\n\r\nThe 'left*' hasn't really taken their visual
    identity seriously since the days of constructivist posters. For at least the
    last 8 years the Republicans have. Even the logo W ( and it was a logo) was brilliant.
    It was brilliant because it falsely but effectively suggested a pal-like intimacy
    with W. I don't think for one second that it is merely or just sympomatic. I think
    these things count. \r\n\r\n* If you can call it that when referring to Kerry,
    or Gore or Clinton\r\n\r\nOn that note, I hope Obama goes with a slightly heavier
    weight in future. The weight he has now is hopeful but not resolute.\r\n\r\nI
    am not vainy imagining that a logo can make a party succesful. But it is one of
    the tools to get the job done! And when elections are won & lost by narrow margins
    you can't afford to screw this stuff up.\r\n\r\n<cite> We don\u2019t know what
    he wants or how he would govern.</cite>\r\n\r\nToo true.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-11 00:04:31'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Nice point James!
  created: '2007-02-11 00:05:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Strip crops contouring around hills are a conservation measure which prevents
    soil erosion. His is both a statement about sustaining our natural resources as
    well as getting support in agricultural states.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/stripcropIowa_6650.jpg]\r\n\r\nStrip
    crops in Iowa (a swing state)"
  created: '2007-02-11 00:46:55'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "The empty space in the 'O' rising, reminds me of Obama himself - no substance.
    And I appreciate how the empty space echoes through out his brand, including within
    the font itself.\r\n\r\nSometimes it's best not to be s'o' clever. Instead - be
    inspirational. I don't see any passion in his brand at all.\r\n\r\nAt least when
    Jesse Jackson ran for pres he had <a href=\"http://www.rainbowpush.org/\">substance</a>.\r\n\r\n...sigh\r\n\r\n________\r\nHiro"
  created: '2007-02-11 01:59:51'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I heard a black woman on the Colbert Report complaining that Obama wasn't
    black enough because he's descended from an African rather than an African-American
    slave. I mean jeez!\r\n\r\nHaving not been born yet for Kennedy, I WANT a rock
    star president. I don't care what his logo looks like. And lord knows we've seen
    worse. I like the way the O and the 0 balance each other around the O in the middle.
    Vastly prefer the print version to the web version tho. America is not smart enough
    for gradients. Subtlety can be perceived as weakness.\r\n\r\nGiven that bad graphic
    design (the butterfly ballot) delivered us George W Bush, I'd rather folks concentrated
    on redesigning the voting equipment than nitpicking over the man's logo."
  created: '2007-02-11 16:57:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The empty space in the \u2018O\u2019 rising, reminds me of Obama himself
    - no substance.</cite>\r\n\r\nObama has plenty of substance\u2014it just doesn't
    show because the American media reduces everything to soundbites, a practice entirely
    unsuitable for Obama's style of politicking. In the 1990s this might have worked
    in his favor, as he would have been able to travel the nation speaking and actually
    provide worthwhile answers in the debates. In this election it's a liability,
    as the numerous early primaries limit his ability to do a lot of speaking, and
    the crowded field will either limit debate responses to minuscule amounts of time
    or drag the debates on so long that only journalists will be watching.\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    heard a black woman on the Colbert Report complaining that Obama wasn\u2019t black
    enough...<cite>\r\n\r\nRace, as a topic of conversation, is always at its ugliest
    in the political arena. It's almost scary how crass, stupid, or downright nutty
    politicos appear when discussing race. Joe Biden is a perfect example; by bringing
    up race his run became what will be remembered as the shortest presidential campaign
    in history."
  created: '2007-02-11 17:16:57'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "As creative people I think many of us would like to think that great design
    can help win a campaign. I used to think that. The short time I've been here in
    Washington and been involved in politics...sadly, sometimes it \"don't mean sh!t.\"
    Its about money, people. No one goes to the voting booth because so-and-so's logo
    was cool. Who moved you? That's what people vote on. If anything, sometimes overly
    slick design can shoot you in the foot...people don't think you're real then.
    Personally, I'd rather eat at the greasy spoon joint where they spend more money
    on butter, than that tr\xE9 chic place down the street with the swan folded napkins
    and the cool logo. And I'm a designer!\r\n\r\nThat being said, George W's materials...as
    Eben pointed out\u2014 were brilliant. But they could have been done with Arial
    and been effective. Its about concept...not the look. You can really focus on
    design and still lose a campaign, case in point: <a href=http://www.jimesch.org>Jim
    Esch for Congress</a href>. \r\n\r\nLobbying, grassroots efforts, fundraising...there
    are TONS of other factors in play here. I'm glad Obama's out there, but I think
    it's way too early for anyone to start dissing ANY candidate out there now. Underestimate
    no one, including Hilary, Giuliani, McCain and Edwards. We've got nearly 2 years
    people...a lot can happen."
  created: '2007-02-11 17:28:30'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "You're right, Terry\u2026 I think that Jim Esch logo looks like way too much
    effort. I don't see how that says Nebraska at all (although\u2026 I've never been
    to Nebraska).\r\n\r\nThe rest of the website itself seems OK. Not all that different
    from Obama's or Clinton's, really.\r\n\r\nI don't think that Congresspeople should
    have logos. I really don't."
  created: '2007-02-11 17:39:17'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>I\u2019d rather folks concentrated on redesigning the voting equipment
    than nitpicking over the man\u2019s logo.</em>\r\n\r\nAmen, sistah Patty! :)\r\n\r\n<em>I
    heard a black woman on the Colbert Report complaining that Obama wasn\u2019t black
    enough</em>\r\n\r\nAs a Black guy who grew up performing classical music and listening
    to rock music in the Midwest...I've heard this many times\u2014 from both Blacks
    and Whites. People who still think like this need to be extinct. They're the reason
    why stereotypes persist and why 50 Cent sells records."
  created: '2007-02-11 17:40:48'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: </cite></cite></i></i>(Jpad and whoever else, next time remember to close
    your "cite" tags. I had to close two tags to de-italicize this post.)
  created: '2007-02-11 17:55:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I just read Obama's announcement speech on his web site. His site has this
    version of the logo:\r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/obama08_3689.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    think it's quite a bit better than either of the above. Better balance and the
    meaning of the logo is clear.\r\n\r\nBut I think Dan had a very interesting point:\r\n\r\n>I
    don\u2019t think that Congress people should have logos. I really don\u2019t.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    that's what makes me uneasy about the way Obama is presenting himself at this
    outset. This logo stuff is too much 'marketing'--a calculated feel-good message.\r\n\r\nThe
    speech has something very good, and something disquieting about it. The very good
    thing is that Obama sees that a central problem is that our politics is broken
    in partisan wrangling instead of solving  problems. \r\n\r\nWhat is disquieting,
    to me anyway, is that he seems to be relying on the force of his personality to
    change this. He says that good policies are not lacking--which I really questiion
    by the way. But more than that he does not lay out which policies he could make
    a reality, and why he could do it when others can't. \r\n\r\nDukakis, Gore and
    Kerry all had the same problem. As I mentioned above, the two journalist pointed
    out that neither Clinton nor Bush had that problem. I will be looking with great
    interest to see whether Obama can pass that test of self-definition in a politically
    successful way. \r\n\r\nMarketing ain't going to do it. And certainly a logo or
    lack of one isn't going to do it. But they are revealing signals of what is going
    on, and not going on. Not as persuaders, but as indicators.   \r\n "
  created: '2007-02-11 18:23:10'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> I don\u2019t think that Congress people should have logos. I really
    don\u2019t. </cite>\r\n\r\nOur visual culture is in too deep now. We cannot go
    back. Unless you specify a standard ( which is a logo too of sorts ) then you
    will have logos. How is this avoidable?\r\n\r\n<cite> This logo stuff is too much
    \u2018marketing\u2019\u2014a calculated feel-good message. </cite>\r\n\r\nIf that
    the way it feels than it's not working for you. But again I think the idea that
    Obama or any serious candidate can *not* engage in what is effectively marketing
    is silly. It just is't avoidable. Marketing is just another name for convincing.
    It's the name of the process rather than the result. Marketing is what we call
    it when it's a product. Campaigning is what it's called in politics."
  created: '2007-02-11 21:41:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Our visual culture is in too deep now.\r\n\r\nMaybe I wasn't clear. I absolutely
    think that the materials of candidates should be well designed, and there will
    be a standard presentation of their name. \r\n\r\nWhat I think Dan meant, and
    what I mean, is the graphic that accompanies the name. It is creating a feel good
    graphic that makes me uneasy. Having the flag or bunting is fine, as what that
    says in the US is that you are running for public office. The sunrise-through-the-fog-with-a-big-O
    thingy is taking it to another level. And maybe too slick. I put 'marketing' in
    quotes because I meant it in a bad sense--where the hype far exceeds the substance. "
  created: '2007-02-11 21:59:37'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "What I meant was that I don't think that Congresspeople, or even candidates
    for Congress, should have logos. That example that Terry Linked to is horrid.
    You can put together a noce look congressional campaign without resulting to logos
    and such a strict CI.\r\n\r\nI think it is perfectly acceptable\u2014and unpreventable\u2014that
    presidential candidates have logos and real graphic identities. And, even though
    it sounds a bit crass, Obama is not a \"senator\" any more. Of course he is still
    sitting in the US Senate. But now he is a Presidential Candidate. This will consume
    most of his time and effort for the foreseeable future.\r\n\r\nWhile presidential
    campaigns do not hinge on their visual design, in my opinion, I think that it
    is OK that they have designs. Almost all other politicians should not have this
    however. I think that it is just too much."
  created: '2007-02-11 23:22:58'
- author:
    name: jimspice
    picture: 112229
  body: "I put together a a bit more <a href=\"http://jimspice.blogspot.com/2007/02/obama-20.html\">web
    2.0 complient Obama logo</a>.  What do you think?\r\n\r\nAnd yes, it is meanst
    to be a bit toungue in cheek.\r\n\r\nSpice[img:sites/default/files/old-images/obama_4326.jpg]"
  created: '2007-02-12 00:10:02'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I don\u2019t think that Congress people should have logos. I really
    don\u2019t.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt beats the days when campaign materials were all just
    red, white, blue and Bodoni."
  created: '2007-02-12 00:38:56'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: You forgot to use rounded letters, jimspice
  created: '2007-02-12 02:29:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The Colbert interview with Debra Dickerson was brilliant and hilarious. At
    one point she had to admit she was so confused she didn't know what she was thinking.
    \r\n\r\nOn the type front, not so sure a Gill face is a good choice for Obama.\r\nGotham,
    as used on the Ground Zero plaque, would send the right message.\r\nRounded, even."
  created: '2007-02-12 02:42:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Gotham would be much better, good pick Nick!\r\n\r\nNow if we could just
    loose the fade/blend schmutz we would be even better. That white fog looks like
    dry ice steaming.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-12 02:52:06'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: Plus, how's it going to reproduce on newsprint with a lot of dot gain? Or
    printed 1 color in K? Seems to me that a continuous tone personality in a venue
    that's always flat color is just asking for trouble . . .
  created: '2007-02-12 03:11:15'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">The Colbert interview with Debra Dickerson was brilliant and hilarious.\r\n\r\nI
    have to agree - video is up at http://www.comedycentral.com/"
  created: '2007-02-12 04:17:59'
- author:
    name: Sans Serif is for Europeans
    picture: 112228
  body: "Anyone else see the similarities to the AT&T logo?\r\n--------------------------\r\nSans
    Serif is Grotesque."
  created: '2007-02-12 04:35:41'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<em>Anyone else see the similarities to the AT&T logo?</em>\r\n\r\nOnly vaguely.
    The AT&T logo is a deeply modified version of the old globe logo, this one looks
    to have been inspired by Bank of America."
  created: '2007-02-12 05:25:19'
- author:
    name: Da Kine
    picture: 111014
  body: "The Obama logo looks like a Cheerio on acid... Though I suppose many black
    Americans might see an Oreo on acid. Cheerios/Oreos... neither has much substance.\r\nD~ "
  created: '2007-02-12 22:25:38'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "The more I look at the mark, the more I like it. It's got the 'O', a sunrise
    over a field, the American flag. Very nice.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2007-02-12 23:05:43'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Though I suppose many black Americans might see an Oreo on acid.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat's
    that supposed to mean?"
  created: '2007-02-13 01:04:00'
- author:
    name: inarges
    picture: 109620
  body: "I like Perpetua, generally, but I think it's ALL WRONG for this! Much too
    delicate.\r\n\r\nSomeone mentioned Gotham -- I actually think that's what Edwards
    is using (not that it wouldn't look good on Obama too)."
  created: '2007-02-13 02:02:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Well, there is always Froggy :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-13 02:54:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">What\u2019s that supposed to mean?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=oreo\r\n\r\n...which
    I consider out of order. To be honest, when I first heard the phrase (one elected
    official referring to another at a public meeting) I had to look it up. If I wanted
    to hear bollocks like that I would have stayed in England. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si
    \r\n"
  created: '2007-02-13 02:58:39'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: There is a problem I've seen withhow this logo is being applied. On more than
    one ocassion, I've seen it reversed out on a dark blue background, and where the
    white sun disc is supposed to appear, it is instead the dark blue background color.
    It makes the "O" shape clear, but it ruins the symbolism. I wish I could find
    a photo of it. I just saw it on TV today on the front of the podium he spoke from.
  created: '2007-02-13 03:04:25'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Simon, as do I. Its a term I'm quite familiar with, and quite frankly its
    not a word a person who isn't Black should ever use.  \r\n\r\nI'd like to see
    some clarification soon before a flame war begins."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "<em>Simon, as do I. Its a term I\u2019m quite familiar with, and quite
      frankly its not a word a person who isn\u2019t Black should ever use.\r\n\r\nI\u2019d
      like to see some clarification soon before a flame war begins.</em>\r\n\r\n\r\nIt
      probably shouldn't be used here by any person, like that."
    created: '2007-02-13 04:27:25'
  created: '2007-02-13 03:07:05'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "To change the subject - quickly - I checked out <a href=\"http://www.hillaryclinton.com/\">Hillary
    Clinton's site</a> and besides having a completely blandola font, I wonder - has
    any other presidential candidate run on a first name basis? I can't think of one.
    This seems odd to me. Is it because she's a woman? \r\n\r\nOK, I stand corrected.
    Rudy2008 (which IMHO should be the title of a horror movie)."
  created: '2007-02-13 05:03:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ike_5965.png]'
  created: '2007-02-13 05:16:31'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "@ Dez: Wayyy off topic but since you brought up Froggy... Good to see <a
    href=\"http://morguefile.com/archive/?display=138322&\">Suave Frog</a> has moved
    on up to a <a href=\"http://morguefile.com/archive/index.php?display=&terms=rose&archive_max_image=12&&start=96&MORGUEFILE=i1s303iq5d0jir2dk6r857sdu5\">delux
    pad</a> - just in time for Valentine's Day?\r\n\r\n________\r\nHiro"
  created: '2007-02-13 05:32:12'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Jimmy Carter used his first name for the 1976 election, didn't he?
  created: '2007-02-13 08:36:41'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>IKE & JIMMY</cite>\r\n\r\nExactly. Good points!\r\n\r\n<cite> The Colbert
    interview with Debra Dickerson was brilliant and hilarious. </cite>\r\n\r\nMy
    god he really gave it to her & she knew she deserved it by the end. I thought
    it was big of her to almost admit to it by the end actually. "
  created: '2007-02-13 09:10:28'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Love that IKE badge. I like the muted red and blues I wonder if that's an
    idea worth pursuing for colour in a campaign, aged looking colours instead of
    the bright reds and blues, possibly communicating wisdom and history. \r\n\r\nI'm
    an Australian, so I'm interested in what people have to say about the American
    election process...BTW two things that strike me: Americans seem more informed/interested
    about politics than Australians and I am always surprised when I find out that
    intelligent/any americans choose not to vote. \r\n\r\nFWIW When I think American
    presidential type, it's always something like Helvetica Black condensed oblique,
    oh and with stars and stripes of course, if it ain't broke hm I think Obama's
    looks a little wispy and maybe too country, but again I find it hard to believe
    that it will matter in the grand scheme of things\r\n\r\n--N"
  created: '2007-02-13 12:44:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hiro,\r\nEither froggy has been soft-peddlin' his wares or he is visiting
    his lady-friend's pad for the night :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-13 13:01:07'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: OK, I couldn't resist, Saulbassy Obama[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bass_obama_6138.png]
  created: '2007-02-13 13:12:19'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Nick - I have an Ike & Dick button and also a Nixon Agnew button - they were
    from my dad.
  created: '2007-02-13 20:12:56'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Where is the smoke in the logo? He is a chain smoker
  created: '2007-02-13 20:27:59'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/wardle4judge_5885.jpg]'
  created: '2007-02-14 05:33:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "When I see the word Wardle... \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-14 07:26:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: '...I check the kerning.'
  created: '2007-02-14 07:26:47'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Capture_3927.JPG]'
  created: '2007-02-14 07:33:20'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "I don't get wardle. Nice iobama\r\n\r\n--N"
  created: '2007-02-14 11:08:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Seems to me there is some lady named Wardle who has something to do with
    typography ;-)\r\n\r\nA kern in time saves mine\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-14 15:32:41'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "But Simon, you forgot the logo!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ObamaNation_6549.png]"
  created: '2007-02-14 16:58:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Sweet!
  created: '2007-02-14 17:30:16'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'Spot on: <a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2008/02/04/technology/04link.html">Is
    Obama a Mac and Clinton a PC?</a>'
  created: '2008-02-04 06:10:22'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: 'Since this thread has already been bumped....   I''ll post to it to say "oops,
    I started [[http://typophile.com/node/42054|another one]]."  '
  created: '2008-02-13 19:08:19'
date: '2007-02-10 19:40:30'
node_type: forum
title: Obama '08?

---
