---
author:
  name: matthew_desmond
  picture: 110578
body: "It begins without a sample of work. As I haven't started it yet.\r\n\r\nI have
  however, downloaded a full copy of Hypnerotomachia Poliphili, which I plan on basing
  the revival/inspiration on. This book is seriously beautiful and I think this is
  as good as any as a starting point.\r\n\r\nI can't seem to get through the completion
  of a serif face of my own design. So, to prove to myself that I can actually do
  it, I'm beginning from a historical model.\r\n\r\nSince the Aldus/Griffo types were
  poorly \"revived\" in the early 20th century with Monotype's muddy Poliphilus, I
  figure there could stand to be a clean copy out there that is not Bembo.\r\n\r\nMy
  goals for the face will be as follows (critiques of any part of this are welcomed!):\r\n\r\n1.
  The face should be suitable for book text.\r\n2. The face will follow the work of
  Griffo as closely as possible from the printed samples available without being too
  literal. (Are there surviving examples of the actual type used? Are they accessible?
  What other sources should I be looking into?)\r\n3. The family will include at least
  the following: Regular, Italic, Bold, Bold Italic, and possibly small caps and lining
  figures etc.\r\n\r\nSo, let me know what you think of all of this. Please pardon
  the thinking out loud.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: matthew_desmond
    picture: 110578
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/symmetria_6053.jpg]'
  created: '2007-02-11 03:05:24'
- author:
    name: matthew_desmond
    picture: 110578
  body: "I'm working out some preliminary specs before drawing:\r\n\r\nCap height:
    700\r\nX-height: 412\r\nDescenders: 275\r\nAscent height: 820\r\n\r\nI'm thinking
    the capital thick strokes will be 90.\r\n\r\nI'm trying to take an average measurement
    on many different impressions of each letter to get these specs."
  created: '2007-02-11 06:40:28'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Michael\r\n\r\nDon't mean to dissuade you but this is an old road well traveled.\r\n\r\nTo
    my knowledge no punches or matrices exist. There are several good collections
    of the Aldine printed work (UCLA has a great collection) that would provide better
    information than a download. Even then, however, the problem is, you can't actually
    trust (in terms of authenticity) what you are seeing. See my post at\r\n\r\nhttp://BielerPressii.blogspot.com\r\n\r\nI
    did a four-year project concerning the Aldine materials at UCLA. Quite frankly,
    I don't think it possible to get a true representation of an Aldine face.\r\n\r\nGerald\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-11 10:04:45'
- author:
    name: dstype
    picture: 111104
  body: "Matthew,\r\n\r\nI think that it could be a very good idea.\r\nFor better
    measurement and details, you may try read the book from \r\nPeter Burnhill, Type
    Spaces, in-house norms in the typography of Aldus Manutius, Hyphen Press "
  created: '2007-02-11 11:17:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Matthew, check out <a href="http://typophile.com/node/17260">this thread</a>
    and related ones. (Use Typophile''s search utility.) I agree with Gerald. '
  created: '2007-02-11 11:47:18'
- author:
    name: matthew_desmond
    picture: 110578
  body: "I thank you for your comments, Garry.\r\n\r\nI agree that it is not possible
    to perfectly replicate Aldine forms using printed samples. And definitely not
    by averaging with software, because you're averaging a source form that is not
    accurate.\r\n\r\nMy version would be more inspiration than revival in the end.
    I plan on using the samples I have as a sort of framework to base my own original
    forms on.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/0363-lg_6195.jpg]"
  created: '2007-02-11 16:04:02'
- author:
    name: matthew_desmond
    picture: 110578
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/poliphilo_4421.jpg]\r\n\r\ntop: Original\r\nmiddle:
    My letters blurred to replicate letterpress\r\nbottom: My letters"
  created: '2007-02-11 20:00:32'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "This sounds like a great project!\r\n\r\nIn your last sample above, I think
    that you should revisit the angle of the strokes of the letters. They seem to
    be more modern (Bodoni-esque\u2026 I know, that is over doing it, but follow along\u2026)
    than old-style. \r\n\r\nFor example, the bowl of the P should begin to curve downward
    before it does in your sample. And the top of the O (12 o'clock) should be much
    thicker, as should 1 o'clock, while your 10 o'clock should be thinner. In other
    words, you need to rotate the angle of the stress a bit to the left around the
    \"circle\" as a whole (of course an O is not a circle, but I don't know what else
    to call it).\r\n\r\nAlso, your serifs appear to be flat-bottomed. I think they
    should curve, somehow.\r\n\r\nI love your L. But could the top serifs, or at least
    the top right serif, be chunkier?\r\n\r\nThe pen, the pen! You must remember the
    pen! (Insert best-possible Yoda voice impression here\u2026)"
  created: '2007-02-11 20:24:42'
- author:
    name: matthew_desmond
    picture: 110578
  body: "Dan,\r\nYou're right. Before I get too far I should work some more human
    elements into the serif forms. I think they are too \"constructed\" looking as
    they stand now.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure about curving the serifs. Maybe I'll do both
    types and get someone to do a letterpress print test to see which I like better.
    It would be fun to vary the amount of ink to see how that would affect the overall
    look.\r\n\r\nI should probably focus on the font looking good on a laser printer
    though, as that's probably how it will get printed most of the time.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nMatt\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: matthew_desmond
      picture: 110578
    body: "Here's a PDF of some updates: \r\n\r\nhttp://www.madtype.net/pdf/poliphili_pdf_1.pdf
      (77kb)\r\n\r\nChanges made include adding variation in the serifs as well as
      making the serifs slightly curved. I also fixed the contrast in the O to be
      more oldstyle.\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-02-11 23:38:54'
  created: '2007-02-11 20:46:37'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Matthew\r\n\r\nVery nice. I think, as Dan suggests, the dip in the serifs
    would help with the authenticity. If that is of concern.\r\n\r\nHow did you do
    this?\r\n\r\nGerald\r\nhttp://BielerPress.blogspot.com"
  created: '2007-02-12 03:46:48'
- author:
    name: matthew_desmond
    picture: 110578
  body: "Gerald,\r\n\r\nI'm not sure I'm fully understanding your question...\r\n\r\nI
    have been studying the images I found of the book closely.\r\nOnce I find a few
    good examples of a letter, I compare them and work out the proportions. There
    is definitely some guessing and some of my own flavor going into the design. It
    helps me a lot to have a model to begin with."
  created: '2007-02-12 04:55:15'
- author:
    name: matthew_desmond
    picture: 110578
  body: "OK, this is freaking me out. All of the Xs are backwards. The lowercase \"x\"s
    are normal. Could this have been a layout error or what? Very odd.\r\n\r\nThe
    question then becomes, should I keep it like this in my version?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/xs_5761.png]"
  created: '2007-02-12 18:58:17'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: 'To answer your questions: Yes, and yes.'
  created: '2007-02-12 19:55:04'
- author:
    name: matthew_desmond
    picture: 110578
  body: "Here's another sample. I'm not sure about which form is best for the W. I
    obviously want to use the oldest form that fits in with the rest of the font.
    I haven't been able to find a timeline of letterforms to compare with. Also not
    sure about the J. I'm planning on offering a normal X along with the backwards
    one. Also, I think they have possibly got the Z backwards in the book also.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.madtype.net/pdf/poliphili_test_uppercase_02_13.pdf
    (175k PDF)"
  created: '2007-02-13 21:03:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> All of the Xs are backwards.\r\n\r\nHow very interesting. Could Griffo
    have so consciously been going against so-called \"ductal logic\"? That would
    be awesome, and a testament to his power as a designer.\r\n\r\n> Could this have
    been a layout error or what?\r\n\r\nExtremely unlikely to be a compositing error.\r\nAnd
    almost as unlikely to be a casting error.\r\n\r\nDefinitely, absolutely, totally
    keep it. It would be such a statement. Certain people will sputter in outrage
    that \"it's backwards\", at which point the historical precedent (which happens
    to be the sort of thing they [also] worship) would be a dramatic and much-needed
    slap in the face.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-13 21:55:53'
- author:
    name: matthew_desmond
    picture: 110578
  body: I think it's interesting, because I didn't notice the backwards Xs until I
    looked at other fonts! It actually doesn't look out of place on the pages of the
    book at all.
  created: '2007-02-13 22:13:56'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: An analogy to always keep in your toolbox. It isn't the separate glyphs that
    create the beauty of the typeface in use, it is the glyphs in conjunction with
    one another.
  created: '2007-02-13 22:16:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That sort of thing only looks out of place to people who design\r\nfonts
    with strict \"ductal logic\". Quite a small number of people\r\nin the scheme
    of things.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-13 22:17:07'
- author:
    name: matthew_desmond
    picture: 110578
  body: "For sure, Tiffany.\r\nType is a machine and if any parts are broken, the
    whole machine is useless."
  created: '2007-02-13 22:39:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Matthew, I am skeptical that the backwards X won''t cause problems. Digital
    type with offset press is an inherently exact medium, with less tolerance than
    letter press. I would look at things like SEXY and WAXWORKS to see whether having
    one diagonal letter different is going to look ''off''. '
  created: '2007-02-15 00:00:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Testing is certainly in order, but there's no reason to be skeptical, simply
    because the conventional contrast distribution is a result of circumstance, not
    some Righteous Order. In type design Familiarity is routinely over-played by both
    conservatives and iconoclasts.\r\n\r\nThe interesting question is why would Griffo
    do it? The only clue, and arguably a tenuous one, I can think of is that \"X\"
    is almost never the first letter of a word, plus the tops of glyphs carry more
    visual weight, plus the \"X\" (and notably not the \"x\", which does maintain
    conventional contrast distribution) has a lateral spacing \"issue\". Maybe.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-15 01:10:13'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "But Hrant - what about ductal logic? Chirography? Are you trying to tell
    us that we should not design type based on a strict set of arbitrary rules but
    based instead on what is pleasing to the eye?\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2007-02-15 07:29:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What is this, a two-man show?!  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-15 15:50:00'
- author:
    name: matthew_desmond
    picture: 110578
  body: "The backwards X is counter intuitive because it doesn't go along with the
    rest of the letters being derived from pen strokes. \r\n\r\nMaybe Griffo was left
    handed?"
  created: '2007-02-15 16:00:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The Z and z commonly have reversed stress, and that works, so, to repeat,
    I'm not dogmatically saying the reversed X won't work, just that it is wise to
    test. \r\n\r\nYou might also check other examples of Griffo's and Aldus's work
    to check whether the reversed X in your sample is a result of a mistake in casting
    the type.  "
  created: '2007-02-15 16:26:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "As William points out, in order to look nicer some characters have evolved
    beyond \"ductal logic\", and clearly that's not violating anybody's \"intuition\".
    My crazy idea is to let <cite>all</cite> the characters enjoy that!\r\n\r\n> Maybe
    Griffo was left handed?\r\n\r\nInteresting idea. If so, it's a good thing he never\r\nran
    the risk of being a student of Noordzij!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-15 17:03:39'
- author:
    name: matthew_desmond
    picture: 110578
  body: "Haha, Hrant. \r\n\r\nI completely understand what you guys are saying, though.
    \r\n\r\nThis will most likely be my most tested face yet. Since the goal here
    is for a readable book text, I'll be attempting to get the color and forms to
    all be harmonious. If anything sticks out I will change it, even if it goes against
    what the source materials are showing."
  created: '2007-02-15 17:28:16'
- author:
    name: matthew_desmond
    picture: 110578
  body: "Hi again.\r\nI would really like to get some more feedback on the actual
    letterforms and other details of this work in progress. Here is a new specimen
    page to look at, this time including lowercase: \r\n\r\nhttp://www.madtype.net/pdf/aldine__text_test_02_16_2007.pdf
    (pdf 230k)\r\n\r\nI'd especially like to hear from you, Gerald, as you have been
    immersed in the Aldine materials.\r\n\r\nFeatures of the final fonts will be:
    \r\n\r\n\u2022 Alternate brackets and parens that align with the uppercase in
    addition to the standard glyphs that align with the lowercase.\r\n\u2022 Lots
    of ligatures (ff, fi, fj, fl, ffi, ffl, ct, st, etc.)\r\n\u2022 Ending swash glyphs
    for \"e\" \"m\" \"n\" etc.\r\n\u2022 Small caps included in each font.\r\n\u2022
    Both lining and old style figures included.\r\n\r\nOnce I get this regular weight
    completely locked in, I will then work on the bolds and italics.\r\n\r\nI have
    to say that I am happy with how the font is looking when printed out. It's feeling
    more heavy duty to me than Bembo, which was my original goal."
  created: '2007-02-16 17:08:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The flipped \"X\" seems just fine (although -interestingly- it looks too
    wide).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-16 18:40:46'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Hi Matthew, how are you? May I ask you why did you feel the desire to approach
    a typeface in such a \"revival\" spirit?\r\n\r\n<cite>Could Griffo have so consciously
    been going against so-called \u201Cductal logic\u201D?</cite>\r\nGriffo, as far
    as I recall, was killed in a brawl, so it could be\u2026\r\nDesigning type wasn't
    such a \"rigidly intellectual\" activity, back then.\r\n\r\nFor everyone else:
    I'm sorry I disappeared for almost two years. It's not been a \"defined\" decision\u2026
    I simply gradually stopped to work on letters, I had to reflect about what I was
    doing. I would like to restart (and see if I can change my job), although I still
    can't see clearly how."
  created: '2007-03-07 16:36:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Griffo was hanged for the murder of his son-in-law.\r\nA brawl he would have
    won, thanks to his burin.  ;-)\r\n\r\nAnd welcome back!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-07 16:48:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Griffo was hanged\r\n\r\nThe version I read is only that he was accused,
    and it is not known what happened to him--whether he was convicted and hung or
    eg. let go on grounds of self-defense. Also there is a version with the son in
    law and a version with the brother in law. \r\n\r\nIn general Griffo modified
    the handwritten ductus for more even color. This was his breakthrough, ever since
    imitated. Still the letters retain the 'underlying force' of the hand written
    models, as that was their point of departure. \r\n\r\nIncidentally, to me the
    reversed contrast X looks like a mistake."
  created: '2007-03-07 16:58:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Different authors will confine themselves to different degrees of certainty.\r\nNot
    many have written about how Griffo died (for reasons of decorum as\r\nwell as
    temporal remoteness) so I agree one shouldn't bet the house on it.\r\nBut of those
    sources who talk about his death I don't recall any that claim\r\nanything besides
    hanging (for some in-law).\r\n\r\n> This was his breakthrough, ever since imitated.\r\n\r\nI
    think you're giving him too much credit.\r\n\r\n> the letters retain the \u2018underlying
    force\u2019 of the hand written models\r\n\r\nI believe often we see what we want
    to see. People see ductus in my own\r\nwork too. Middendorp even sees it in Legato,
    irrespective of Bloemsma's\r\nconsistent, driven and explicit anti-chirographic
    stance.\r\n\r\n> to me the reversed contrast X looks like a mistake.\r\n\r\nWhich
    of course is to be fully expected.\r\n\r\nBut what would be interesting is how
    [a person like] you\r\nwould come to terms with the fact (or at least probability,\r\nuntil
    we hear a better explanation) that Griffo did that...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-07 17:11:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">giving him too much credit.\r\n\r\nCertainly Jenson was an important precurssor,
    but it was more fully executed with Griffo\r\n\r\n>that Griffo did that\r\n\r\nI
    am guessing it was a mistake in casting, so the type was upside down. Checking
    on the samples from 'Seneca' (with Griffo type) in Peter Burnhill's 'Type Spaces',
    the Xs don't seem to have reversed contrast. Though it admittedly is hard to tell
    exactly what is going on because the ink spread is so extreme. Also the fact that
    the lower case X's in Matt's sample are normal stress would tend to bolster the
    idea that it was a casting or trimming mistake. It could be part of his general
    effort to rebalance the color of the alphabet, but as I say I doubt it.  \r\n\r\n>a
    person like you\r\n\r\nOh you mean \"delightfully open-minded.\" Thanks, Hrant
    :)  "
  created: '2007-03-07 17:42:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Jenson was an important precurssor\r\n\r\nJenson was Griffo's \"father\".\r\n\r\n>
    a mistake in casting, so the type was upside down.\r\n\r\nFor that to be plausible
    the descender space needs to be equal to the ascender space, otherwise the \"X\"
    wouldn't sit on the baseline. Is this the case? Plus the matrix would have to
    fit in the mould upside down - although I don't know enough to claim that wasn't
    possible.\r\n\r\nAnd what are the chances that Aldus/Griffo wouldn't have noticed/minded?\r\n\r\n>
    \u2018Seneca\u2019 ... the Xs don\u2019t seem to have reversed contrast. \r\n\r\nClearly
    a mistake in casting.  ;-)\r\n\r\nBTW, I just meant conservative.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-07 17:52:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">conservative\r\n\r\nBy my lights, I am not a conservative, either in type
    or politics, but a reformist. Reformism, as formulated by my late teacher Karl
    Popper, is the idea that we appreciate tradition as a source of strength, but
    criticise it, and make reforms to change and improve it where we find it lacking.
    \r\n\r\nThus in type revival I do not believe that literal, 'authentic' revivals
    are worth the effort. But I do think that making 'contemporary classics' is worth
    the effort. Here I would include such faces as Slimbach's Garamonds and Carter's
    Miller. "
  created: '2007-03-07 18:19:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK then, you find less lacking in tradition than average. Same difference.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-07 18:34:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">less lacking in tradition than average. Same difference.\r\n\r\nNo, it is
    not a question of less or more, it is a question of changing tradition critically,
    rather then knee jerk change or persistence. In some areas I find more wrong with
    tradition than others do, in some places less. \r\n\r\nI find both conservatives
    and radicals annoying because they know the solution before they hear the problem.
    Change for a good reason, not because of a general rule. \r\n\r\nLike you, I am
    interested in readability in text type. So I would say, there are good reasons
    to forget about reviving Bodoni as a text type, but to go for reviving  Griffo's
    types for text. "
  created: '2007-03-07 20:17:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To me, you're having a knee-jerk reaction to being called something you\r\nessentially
    are but don't want to call yourself. Terminological differences\r\nare fine; hiding
    behind them is not.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-07 20:35:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">hiding behind them is not.\r\n\r\nMy views don't fit into your boxes, so
    how about expanding your boxes?\r\n\r\nOn the possibility of getting it upside
    down: My understanding is that punches were struck into a copper strip, then a
    rectangle was cut around the strike, and this fitted into the adjustable mold.
    The cutting of the copper matrix was a skilled job, as it would also involve fitting.
    And it was often done by someone other than the punch maker. \r\n\r\nSo I'd think
    it would be pretty easy to make a mistake, especially in these very early days
    of typefounding.   "
  created: '2007-03-07 21:19:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Minor point: more often brass than copper, as far as I know.\r\n\r\nOf course
    mistakes happen, but then the ink hits the paper and it shows up, right? So is
    your position that Aldus and Griffo didn't notice the mistake, or didn't care
    enough to fix it?\r\n\r\n> it was often done by someone other than the punch maker.\r\n\r\nTypically
    the typefounding tasks were split up among different people in the case of large
    operations. I suspect in the case of the Aldine press Griffo did as much as possible;
    he most probably was the one striking the punches onto the matrix material, and
    then why not go ahead and prep the matrix for casting? I can however see the actual
    casting done by somebody else, for reasons of risk (of burning) and skill-set
    difference.\r\n\r\nAlso, they must have had a way of marking orientation; think
    of the risk of ending up with an upside-down \"o\" for example. Admittedly, even
    with such a marking the matrix could possibly have been placed upside down in
    the mould; but have you done the ascender/descender-space test I mentioned?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-07 22:25:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Also, an assumption concerning mistakenly flipping the matrix\r\nis that
    the struck letter ends up towards the middle of the matrix.\r\nIf the Aldine matrices
    were anything like the one illustrated here\r\nhttp://personal.lig.bellsouth.net/r/_/r_rice2/mmoup/part2.htm
    _\r\nthat doesn't seem to be the case.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-07 22:37:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wait a second: when you rotate an \"X\" 180 degrees the contrast distribution
    doesn't change! The only way to get that \"X\" (outside of a horizontal flip in
    Photoshop, which I suspect Griffo didn't use...) is to cut the punch that way.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-07 22:47:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Wait a second\r\n\r\nWhoops. You're absolutely right, Hrant. \r\n\r\nAs
    the Seneca face doesn't seem to have it, it would be interesting to find how where
    exactly he has the mirrored X and where not. "
  created: '2007-03-08 00:09:59'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Why do you (Matt first) see the Xs \"backwards\"?\r\nThe modulation in all
    the letters (quite mild), the roughness of them, the small letter size, to my
    eyes they do not seem to set an entirely systematic approach on how and where
    \"apply weight\". I don't think when Griffo worked worried about the result in
    such a way like most people seem to do now. I think he tried to make the whole
    work the most functional and aesthetically satisfying, and it was enough good."
  created: '2007-03-09 15:59:10'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Double post.
  created: '2007-05-13 18:16:04'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Hi Matthew,\r\nThis is something crying out to be done; I pray you finish
    it.\r\n\r\nI wanted to do pretty much what you are doing at Reading, but I had
    to quit through illness; I'm sad not to have anything to show for the months spent
    researching, thinking and working on a variety of averaging procedures, which
    took me a long way beyond the stuff Bill has kindly pointed you to. Luckily, it
    seems I you can do the work for me :-)\r\n\r\nThe tone of what follows is, just
    for brevity's sake, terribly hectoring; take it with an implied \"but if you want
    to go another way by all means do\".\r\n\r\nGerald is right; but if not a set
    of fonts you can revive single pages of roman and of italic. Nonetheless your
    interpretation of what you see needs a thorough knowledge of the mature Griffo's
    work, in the earliest printings from completed, coherent types. That means using
    the Scriptores Astronomici Veteres rather than the Hypnerotomachia, for which
    the type had degraded - degraded further, for the lowercase - and been rather
    poorly set. It means seeing the De Aetna lowercase, which is a jumble of experimental
    forms in a very clean state unusually well printed, and comparing it with the
    revised and narrowed 1499 lowercase; you should also look at the 1497(?) roman,
    broader, more even, more coherent and less interesting than the 1499, which exists
    in immaculate form well printed. For your italic, you should see and consider
    using elements not just, or even mostly, from the well-known 1501 italic in its
    infinite versions up to 1519, but also the 1503 italic for Soncino and the 1516
    made for Griffo's own press, which are generally superior and respectively more
    beautiful and more functionally intelligent. I've come to see the titchy 1516er
    as a masterpiece, and it impressed Gerard Unger, who doesn't like the 1501 or
    1503. For all these, you need both higher-res scans than you have for the Hypnerotomachia
    and actual physical books or pages in front of you. I have scans and leaves of
    the 1501 in its last (?) 1519 state, British Library scans and one leaf of the
    1499 S.A.V., BL scans of the 1503 and the 1516, and photographs of the crappy
    early Jensonian roman - it's interesting to see where Griffo started from - and
    the 1497 roman. I will send JPEGs if you like, and in extremis could post you
    my own pages. Just a glance at these will show that your roman isn't very accurate,
    is more regular than the original, and follows norms established for new work
    only in the twentieth century. Again, if that's fine by you, that's fine full
    stop. What you've produced so far is absolutely lovely.\r\n\r\nYou can get much
    closer, though others will disagree, with averaging, because it retains information
    that the eye examining a page cannot possibly synthesize. Here is the output of
    averaging a page of 1503 italic, using my software (I can send it, but Raph has
    his own which is much less labour-intensive though perhaps - I can't be at all
    sure - a shade less accurate). The only processing it has had is increasing contrast
    to full range and giving it a white background.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/beach
    pond_5374.PNG]\r\nUnsharp masking - which is crucial - shows clearly that there
    are two 'c's here (but not, for instance, two 'n's):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/beach
    pond unsharp_4167.PNG]\r\nNow the 1499 roman, from my own page, unprocessed:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/adhesion
    unprocessed_4689.PNG]\r\nSee the slight whitening on the top of 'o', or the baseline
    serif of 'i'?\r\nExaggeratedly unsharped and contrast increased for obviousness:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/adhesion_4758.png]\r\nThe
    different texture of, for instance, 'h' vs 'i' comes from having fewer (too few)
    images of 'h' being averaged.\r\nIf you extract only the interiors, you get\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/adhesion
    metal_4387.png]\r\nIs that metal? Well, since it's produced from the exaggerated
    version, and the 'n' doesn't clearly join, it must be a pixel or two skinnier
    than the metal; but it's surprisingly clean for a type often thought of as very
    rough."
  created: '2007-05-13 18:28:15'
- author:
    name: YvesPeeters
  body: "Very intresting work Matthew.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-07 00:27:16'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi Griffo fans!\r\n\r\nvery interesting work and discussion in progress.
    I am impressed as I usally am by the expert knowledge that one finds in this forum.
    Although the fun is reduced a lot after the pages redesign for it seems to me
    awfully slow now. That's kind of fun killer.\r\nI am personally not a big Griffo
    fan for I always found Jensons characters more beautiful and even in the text.
    What was seen in Aldus printings as a progress i.e. the narrower character ruined
    the genious idea of having circles as basic idea for beauty. And not the circle
    of inner forms or else but as a whole as drawn from a pen. Jensons letters to
    my eyes are the more important ones to take as an example for learning about beauty.
    I am sorry its provoking from my side, maybe I am only frustrated of not getting
    response from fantastic guys as Raph, Hrant or William...\r\n\r\nMatthew your
    pdf was impressing. I particularly liked the way you treated the 'h' here your
    face is soft and pen like as it should be. Maybe you can invest some time in the
    'a' if you want. I attach a beautiful redesign from Malin and a rough sketch in
    Photoshop\r\n\r\nbest wishes\r\nStefan (Centaur fan ;-)\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Griffo_Malin_4084.gif][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Rough-sketch_4257.gif]"
  created: '2007-06-28 18:32:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Stefan, concerning what were you expecting a response from me?\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I also find the Jenson model far superior to Griffo's. I think\r\nwe talk so much
    about the latter mostly because Morison so badly\r\nwanted a cause c\xE9l\xE8bre.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-28 18:41:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Both styles are very viable, both originally and in revival, so I don't have
    a strong opinion about this.\r\n\r\nHowever, I do feel is that Griffo did make
    something of an advance over Jenson in making metal type more fully 'typographic',
    which is to say more 'invisible' by making the color more even, and the characters
    less calligraphic, and more restrained. The horizontal e is part of this. \r\n\r\nJenson
    is also great, but my feeling is that for small 12 pt and lower sizes the model
    set by Griffo may have an edge. \r\n\r\nFor example, Centaur is a more beautiful
    type than Monotype Bembo, but it doesn't work at small sizes, as far as I have
    seen. There have been a number of recent revivals or Jenson-influenced type, and
    maybe if I studied them I might change my mind. "
  created: '2007-06-28 19:16:18'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi hrant, hi William!\r\n\r\nHey! In fact I have great difficulties in finding
    the discussions in progress since the redesign. How is it possible to get a quick
    link to the discussions one has last made a response or anything. The search modus
    works very slow and I do not manage to find actual replies very easy. Its hard
    work for my patience ;-) \r\nhrant, I didn't expect any precise response just
    have to get used that maybe some topics come to an end while others go on or start
    from new. I am a beginner with forum, guess I have to learn a lot.\r\n\r\nI wanted
    to attach another secret for me in letter design ;-)\r\n\r\nNice to hear from
    you anyhow.\r\nhrant what is your baskerville revival doing or wasn\u2019t it
    you?\r\nI sent to you something - not much  maybe it didn\u2019t arrive\r\n\r\nso
    long\r\nhope I will get better in using this forum\r\n\r\nStefan\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Secret_3456.gif]"
  created: '2007-06-28 19:43:22'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Hi William,\r\n\r\nyou are right anyhow what concerns Centaur for example
    in small sizes. Depends also a lot yet on the lack of ink means blackness specially
    in the smaller sizes. The Valdonega interpretation of Centaur has a beautiful
    8 point size!! (even smaller than we are used to 8 point!) Heavy enough it is
    very readable and if use it as a footnote the colour of 12, 16 and 8 point perfectly
    match. If you close the eyes a little a page set in various size has the same
    colour density feeling! It is possible.\r\nOk, Adobe made some progresses in that
    direction but why are there forms always so rounded and weaky?\r\nLook at Adobe
    Jensons g, its far to round, to nervous in its counterforms, doesn\u2019t work
    like a real Jenson.\r\n\r\nCiao\r\nStefan"
  created: '2007-06-28 19:50:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I did get your email - I've just been lousy at replying... Sorry.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    who's the bird?\r\n\r\n> why are there forms always so rounded and weaky?\r\n\r\nIt's
    the air up there.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-28 19:54:47'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: ":-))\r\n\r\n>I did get your email - I\u2019ve just been lousy at replying...
    Sorry.\r\n\r\nNo, I didn\u2019t refer to the mail, I have sent to you a specimen
    of Baskerville and a printed page via post. Guess it swims somewhere in the atlantic...
    :-))\r\nI am also lousy at replying. ;-)\r\n\r\n>It\u2019s the air up there.\r\n\r\nWho's
    air? Are you living in the mountains? Besides all what I have seen so far in this
    forum is way better than Adobes fonts!\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2007-06-28 20:03:34'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "P.S:\r\n\r\n>who\u2019s the bird?\r\n\r\nthe bird is from one of Paolo Roversi
    beautiful photographs from Italian Vogue.\r\nI find it stimulating during the
    design progress to watch human body forms (specially female I have to admit ;-)
    as I really think they tell us a lot about natural charming forms. This is what
    I am gaining at designing letters.\r\n\r\nso far \r\nthink I have to eat now and
    go to bed! Sun goes down in Germany.\r\nBesides it rained a week now..\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2007-06-28 20:08:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah, something besides bills to look forward to in the mail - thank you!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-28 20:18:18'
date: '2007-02-11 02:58:55'
node_type: forum
title: Serif face revived/inspired from early Aldus/Griffo work...

---
