---
author:
  name: Dan Gayle
  picture: 111595
body: "We've all been through it. We're out at dinner. We're ordering our food. Looking
  at the menu you notice, <em>Hey, they used Triplex Serif for the design. Cool.</em>
  \r\n\r\nThey say <em>What?</em> You look up and reply, <em>You know, the font. They
  used Triplex Serif for the font. It's from Emigre.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd then the eyes
  start rolling. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/images_6744.jpg]\r\n\r\nYour
  date/friends/waitress think you're a massive dork, and you hang your head in shame.
  The end.\r\n\r\nHappens to me just about every day, and I'm used to it. My friends
  are used to it also. They've accepted the fact that I'm a font nerd and sometimes,
  SOMETIMES, they even ask me to I.D. one for them.\r\n\r\nSo, how do you deal with
  the rolling eyes? And what is your typical response?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "i laugh at myself ! (as often as possible) \r\n\r\nsometimes, if i know them
    well, i try to find a comparable obsession in the present company: \"y'know....
    you notice handbags, i notice dingbats\" ...but usually i just laugh at myself.
    \ :-o"
  created: '2007-02-11 01:50:24'
- author:
    name: midbrain
  body: 'Thats the advantage of dating a fellow designer!  '
  created: '2007-02-11 01:57:33'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I like Chris's take -- my sweetie can hear a helicopter miles away and remark
    \"Oh it's a whatever: they're great but the ends of the rotor blades are way too
    sharp.\"  \r\n\r\nHe thinks there's absolutely nothing strange with my \"hmm,
    that's really neat, but I wonder they used Rotis Sans on the album cover....\"\r\n\r\n:-)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "wow ! linda, your beau can identify helicopters by sound ? i'm seriously
      impressed. \r\nthat could be a real survival skill when armageddon kicks in...
      \r\n\r\ni can imagine a scenario: crouched in the smoke, they wait for rescue.
      suddenly the sound of chopper blades emerges from the chaos. the sergeant tilts
      his head... \"it's one of ours... but the blades sound a little dull... let's
      move !!\"  they rush toward the sound when the corporal sees something odd about
      the serial number on the tail...  suddenly he screams: \r\n\"it's a trap !!!
      they used a counterfeit stencil gothic !! nnnoooooooo.........\"\r\n"
    created: '2007-02-11 15:05:22'
  created: '2007-02-11 02:57:05'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "When I was first really falling in love with type in the early 70s, I was
    living in Boston with a roommate. I worked at an art supply store (Charrette)
    and Jeff operated a typositor in a local composing room, so we talked about type
    all the time. For evening meals we often went to a Greek resto around the corner
    called Ann's Lunch, and as the food was outstanding and reasonably priced, it
    was also a hangout for cops. \r\n\r\nAt that time the Boston police must have
    decided they needed an advertising agency or something, because overnight all
    the cruisers went from saying BOSTON POLICE in Helvetica Light a/c, to very large
    <strong>boston police</strong> in Futura Black lc. Not exactly what any of us
    would call a subtle change. \r\n\r\nOkay, Jeff and I walk into Ann's and I see
    a table with four cops. I approach them with all the excitement and zeal of age
    22 and say, \"Wow!! What do you guys think of the lettering on your cars?\" They
    all look at me like I'm from Mars (or more likely, <em>on</em> something) and
    say, \"What?!\" I explain, with just a bit of impatience, \"You know, the writing
    on your cruiser doors.\" They look at me deadpan, then at each other, then back
    at me and say, \"I dunno, Mac. It still says 'Boston Police,' don't it?\"\r\n\r\nIt
    was in that moment that I realized the world was divided into two distinct groups
    . . ."
  created: '2007-02-11 03:28:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bruce, it would be unprofessional of a big tough cop to admit they notice
    somethink as artsy as a typeface*. But they do, deep down, get that Futura Black
    vibe. They're only human.\r\n\r\n*Unless forensic typography was integral to the
    solving of a murder on CSI -- comic book reality."
  created: '2007-02-11 03:35:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My sisterinlaw calls me Font Goy.\r\nenough said :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-11 03:46:33'
- author:
    name: mjpatrick
    picture: 111908
  body: "I don't get a lot of rolling eyes. If I see something I like I might comment
    on it or take a picture. Most people that know me realize that's just what I do.
    That covers more than just fonts, also logos, layouts and illustrations. I pay
    attention to colors used the most.\r\n\r\nI try to take it easy on my friends
    that aren't designers. I wouldn't want to go to lunch with an accountant to hear
    her cooingly hype how great the latest money managing software is. "
  created: '2007-02-11 05:44:08'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: You've just got to keep trying to educate the masses about good typography.
    My friend now can spot fake small caps a mile away. But there's no one I know
    who can understand walking down the street and being unable to refrain from identifying
    the fonts on storefronts and signs. Then again, I have don't really follow when
    another friend tries to tell me the differences between hard and metal rock.
  created: '2007-02-11 05:57:17'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "I love that photograph, Dan!  :-) Perfect.\r\n\r\nBut like mjpatrick, I don't
    get a lot of rolling eyes. One manager I had a few years ago was pretty impressed
    when I identified ITC Benguiat without blinking. Back in high school most of my
    classmates thought it was pretty cool when I would draw band logos that approximated
    the real thing. My friends know that I'm a graphic design/type geek and don't
    give me any trouble, for the most part."
  created: '2007-02-11 06:34:35'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Dan. You're dating <em> her?</em>\r\n\r\nI think it's time you re-read Leslie
    Carbarga's dedication and introduction to his <a href=\"http://www.logofontandlettering.com/\">\"Logo,
    Font & Lettering Bible\".</a> What you call dorkiness is something the rest of
    us recognise as budding discernment. Indispensible for all that you can (and can't)
    eat on the menu. "
  created: '2007-02-11 07:56:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Anything on a menu set in all caps script surely should never be eaten :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: fernandoLins
    body: "<cite>Anything on a menu set in all caps script surely should never be
      eaten :-)</cite>\r\n\r\nHahahaha. So true!\r\n\r\nI'm glad I date a designer.
      But I rarely comment that stuff out loud. I usually wait till he does :-P"
    created: '2007-02-12 13:49:20'
  created: '2007-02-11 14:45:42'
- author:
    name: Silvermule
    picture: 111376
  body: It happens to me as well. Not so much rolling eyes but the "he's a dork look".
    Most of the times it has to do with me pointing out to wife and friends that the
    there is a big company ad, or movie titles that use free typefaces that I can
    refer to by name or designer. And don't get me started about menus. Yesterday
    I saw a wine list at a reputable local hotel bar,  all set in Avant Gard -forced
    itals-  with every single line crashing onto the next. I pointed  this out to
    people around me and was called a dork once again.
  created: '2007-02-11 15:47:44'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I hang around with (and tend to date) a LOT of graphic designers/artists so
    this is not such a problem... but I'm glad the Knitting Factory in NY redesigned
    their logo, you used to be able to drive a truck between the F and the a in Factory
    and I had trouble enjoying the music as a result.
  created: '2007-02-11 16:52:25'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "There are two really nice places to eat where I hang out. One is a fancy
    Japanese pastry/coffee shop, and the other a Greek themed brew pub.\r\n\r\nBoth
    use Papyrus. \r\n\r\nAnd the scary thing is, NO ONE ELSE NOTICES. (Or cares.)\r\n\r\nBut
    anyway, is that the turning point in someone becoming a Typophile? The moment
    you turned to the Dark Side? The moment when you can no longer look at something
    and <em>just read it</em> without analyzing the presentation? "
  created: '2007-02-11 16:59:26'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: A restaurant I love uses Zapf Chancery CAPS on its menu. One of these days
    I'll offer a quickie redesign as a barter for free food just to spare my eyes
    the abomination.
  created: '2007-02-11 17:14:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I find it interesting that you won't get the eye roll if you talk about architecture,
    and probably not even product design. \r\n\r\nThere must be a good way to introduce
    a mention of typography and type design--like a particularly good or bad menu--that
    gets across the whole 'normally invisible but powerful impact' idea, and that
    it is an important field of design with a long history. \r\n\r\nObviously I don't
    know a brief way to put people at ease with the subject either :) \r\n\r\nAny
    suggestions?\r\n\r\nps my impression is that people are more aware of logos as
    something designed, so maybe that is a way... "
  created: '2007-02-11 17:22:44'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Both use Papyrus.\r\n\r\nAnd the scary thing is, NO ONE ELSE NOTICES.
    (Or cares.)</cite>\r\n\r\nMy friends and family think I'm crazy because I always
    gripe about Papyrus being everywhere. It astounds me that they don't even notice,
    while I hallucinate and see every letter around turn into Papyrus if I go too
    long without sleeping."
  created: '2007-02-11 17:29:19'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "I have a very tolearant husband, who suffers my type-related rants pretty
    well. It must be annoying to produce a carefully selected bottle of wine just
    to hear a lecture about kerning (or lack of it) and how I read on Typophile about
    Trajan, which is used on this label, being the favourite of the film industry,
    etc, etc... (true story from last night)\r\nHe's quite used to me taking photos
    of interesting signs, and when I had promised to post some Berlin Hauptbahnhof
    pictures here, he was very supportive and flexible about it on our weekend break.
    I think I'll turn him into a Typophile one of these days ;^)\r\nI try to keep
    my mouth shut in less undestanding company."
  created: '2007-02-11 18:20:16'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: 'Here''s another true restaurant anecdote: Peter Bain and I once went to a
    sushi place close to my workplace, and the first thing he noticed was that the
    entire menu was set in Comic Sans! That got a good chuckle from us, but I''m sure
    people at neighboring tables were rolling their eyes. :-D'
  created: '2007-02-11 20:51:15'
- author:
    name: Marc C
    picture: 112221
  body: "<cite>the entire menu was set in Comic Sans!</cite>\r\n\r\nHo my god !!!!"
  created: '2007-02-11 21:13:28'
- author:
    name: Marc C
    picture: 112221
  body: "I like when people rolled their eyes about me, all my friend loved me because
    I'am weird.\r\n\r\n(I dont think I'am so weird, ah !! anyway !)"
  created: '2007-02-11 21:18:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ricardo, I once bought a Comic book and it was all set in Sushi! :-P\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/t26/sushi/\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-11 21:56:28'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Repeat after me, Chris: \"No more silly bad jokes.\"\r\n\r\nEven though I
    know you did it for the halibut, it smelt....  ;-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-11 23:31:02'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: ">You\u2019ve just got to keep trying to educate the masses about good typography.\r\n\r\nWhy?
    If they don't care about it it is not important.\r\n\r\nI hang out with a bunch
    of film people and one of the worst parts of that is their myopic take on life
    since it is completely informed by film. They are intelligent, nice people who
    can bore you to death if you let them.\r\n\r\nFilm is the most important thing
    in the world to them and I understand. But they should understand that I only
    like film for enjoyment and couldn't care less about their adroit analysis.\r\n\r\nSocial
    situations that don't involve your colleagues are not the time to start talking
    about design. They very simply don't care nor should they.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-02-11 23:43:44'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "DanGayle - I think you need to find some friends who appreciate fine type
    with their fine wine.\r\n\r\nBruce - I love the Boston Police story.\r\n\r\nPattyfab
    - where I am living now, some of the restaurants have found a program for Windows
    - that designs and makes menus. I'm pretty proud of one of the restaurants, they
    had ITC Anna and Caslon in their computer - and it did a very nice job. There
    was one steak house here that insisted on Old English in all caps - I redid the
    menu for them - they paid for it -- and unfortunately, they soon went out of business.
    Not their fault - odd landlords....\r\n\r\nNow to share my own story. Some of
    you may remember Marvin Kommel. He owned MKP Type aka Type Emporium. He was mostly
    a typesetter's typesetter. If Photolettering, Cardinal, Haber, etc. didn't have
    the typositor face and needed the job overnight- they went to Marvin. Marvin,
    btw, was not only a competitor of mine, he too, was an Alphatype shop. \r\n\r\nMarvin
    and I would met every Monday for lunch. He would give me all the details of which
    typesetter's funeral he went to that weekend. (Those last few years 1992-1996
    was very rough on typesetters...) After a lovely lunch (boy, did he know how to
    eat well) we would walk around bookstores. Not only did we play guess which font
    in used on the title of the book - we expanded it to -- guess which typeshop set
    it*,  who designed it and which publisher. We were always loud and enjoyed ourselves,
    especially if others were around the bookstore. So many really didn't (and still
    don't) understand how much work went into something that looked so simple, or
    how many of us truly took pride and care in our work.\r\n\r\nThanks for my memory.
    Marvin passed away three Januarys ago. RIP Marvin.\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2022 Ttrick question
    most of the time with Marvin -- it may have been billed by another typehouse,
    but so many times it was an MKP font that produced it..."
  created: '2007-02-12 00:09:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Linda is fishing for more than California roles but I won't take the bait
    and switch the topic :-P\r\n\r\nGreat story Jackie! You two really knew how to
    have fun in a book store! BTW, was Marvin your frog loving friend?\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Jackie Frant
      picture: 109498
    body: "Hey Chris -\r\n\r\nMarvin Kommel was more than 20 years my senior. He was
      a competitor - and in the last few years of his life, a true friend.\r\n\r\nMy
      frog loving friend was Jame R. Harris - aka Jimmy. He was once the art director
      of trade books for Ballantine - and later the art director for Perigee and River
      something or other for Berkley Books, part of Penguin USA.\r\n\r\nWhen I go
      to my local Barnes & Noble now - I am sadden how so many books look the same.
      The designers do not seem to do as much handtailoring or handlettering as they
      use to - and so much of it looks -- well, the same.\r\n\r\nAnd yes Chris - fact
      of life - as you get older, you lose loved ones... no getting around it -- unless
      you are in to the alternative... and I'm not - fortunately, I have a very nice
      life - and as you can see, two very sweet, loving doggies :)\r\n\r\n>>>>>>>>\r\n\r\n<em>You
      know, I never thought of it that way. A subliminal experience. I don\u2019t
      think I\u2019ve ever heard anyone ever describe design in that way. I guess
      that good typography is supposed to be invisible. Something to catch your eye,
      but also to let go so you actually read it.\r\nBut what is wrong in cracking
      the illusion?</em>\r\n\r\nThat is what we have headline (display) type for...
      body copy - nice grays, nothing that makes you turn away... headline - for the
      designer in us all...\r\n\r\n\r\n>>>>>>>>>>>>\r\n\r\nBruce, I wish I did know
      your friend. He was out of the city before I opened Gryphon. I was on E. 46,
      then E. 44, then W. 28 and then E. 43 -- just about 20 years of moving around...\r\nHope
      he is still with us - we've lost so many good ones..."
    created: '2007-02-13 23:35:23'
  created: '2007-02-12 00:28:07'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<cite>they very simply don\u2019t care nor should they.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure I agree Paul. Isn't it nice when you manage to get someone's attention
    about something they had never thought much before? Last Friday I went to my stretching
    and after class I had a chat with the instructor, the last person you'd think
    would be interested in typography or architecture. She asked me what I was doing
    so I proceeded to explain  and I guess at some point she started to see how fascinating
    the subject was and she asked me more and more questions and I could tell I had
    really planted a seed or something. The same with my partner, when I start telling
    him about the amazing experience of turning the pages of an old book, the smell,
    texture, typography, layout...he stops whatever he's doing and listen. I promise
    you. I guess it's the twinkle in my eyes, people notice when something REALLY
    revs my (little) engine.\r\nBut if you think you're going to grab someone's attention
    to typography by dissing a menu because is set in Comic Sans (and you're right
    to do it, of course), well, I think you're going to get only rolling eyes, which
    is a pity.\r\nI think it's important you draw attention not only to typography
    but to many other subjects that people tend to find irrelevant. People have lost
    their ability to *see* and it's the most amazing (and rewarding) experience when
    you make them see again."
  created: '2007-02-12 00:50:27'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "Hey Jackie, how much did you cross paths with my buddy Charlie Toor, who
    had a shop on (I think it was) E 45th, Charles Toor Tradegraphics or something
    like that. I believe he had Alphatype as well. He moved up to NH around 1970 to
    establish a mom and pop printing business and I ran his darkroom, made plates
    (ah, the old days of high craft -- and I do mean high -- hand-rubbing that red
    lacquer onto the R plates and having to use exactly the right touch and pressure
    so that halftones would come out even and not streaky), and occasionally ran a
    press. He taught me to set display on his Typositor and many other things about
    type . . . and music. \r\n\r\nHe's a fantastic jazz pianist (studied with Jaki
    Byard for many years) and plays out and sings around here in the White Mountains
    of NH. When he was a teen he used to sneak over from Brooklyn to hang out at the
    Royal Roost. One night Bud Powell was in the room but he was so messed up he couldn't
    play, so Max Roach and Diz and I'm not sure who else plucked Charlie out of the
    audience and had him play piano!! He claims that he managed to hold his own despite
    much challenge from the rest of the players. "
  created: '2007-02-12 00:53:46'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "I guess I did come off a bit superior there. That wasn't my intention at
    all, Paul. I don't somehow make it my duty to lecture everyone I see on their
    typographic mistakes or subject them to hearing about my recent favorite type
    discoveries. But I've found that for every person that never noticed type and
    has no interest in it, there's someone who never noticed it but is excited to
    learn. Somehow typography came up while talking to a classmate in my Shakespaere
    class. He asked me why type interests me, and I told him that it's learning about
    the history of each typeface and being able to see the intricacies of letterforms
    that give a font its character. The next day, he told me that he spent an hour-and-a-half
    the previous night in Word going through each of his installed fonts at a big
    point size. He was honestly excited to have learned about type, and I was genuinely
    happy to have given someone some typographic appreciation.\r\n\r\nIt is tempting
    to point out to someone that their sign is an exemplar for how not to kern, but
    I don't -- I save my comments for those who want them.\r\n\r\nOne other thing
    that my year-old passion for type has made me think about is what other passions
    there are that I've never given a second thought to. I know that people have forgotten
    more about music, painting, ancient history, etc. than I'll ever know, but are
    there people who feel passionate about things like wood? Tiling? Globes? Cell
    phones? I've always entertained the thought of some day writing about all these
    passions and what people find so fascinating about them."
  created: '2007-02-12 01:53:28'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Ricardo, I once bought a Comic book and it was all set in Sushi! :-P</em>\r\n\r\nHar
    har har, was it a Manga comic?  ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-12 04:26:15'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"So, how do you deal with the rolling eyes? And what is your typical response?\"\r\n\r\nFirst
    off, recognition of menu fonts is hardly annoncement worthy, so I'd say you were
    asking for the label by being a... (whatever they call you). If someone asks,
    you tell, otherwise shhh.\r\n\r\nTo discuss the details of what's supposed to
    be a subliminal experience, you might as well be a farmer, read through the menu
    and then describe the details of cattle or chicken slaughter. \r\n\r\nWhat are
    you thinking?"
  created: '2007-02-12 12:40:27'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Family is driving downtown..\r\n\r\n\"The font of the company's name at the
    wall is a...\"\r\n \r\n\"Okay, don't tell us - please!\" (My wife - starts rolling)\r\n\r\n\"What
    is it, Dad?\" (My daughter)\r\n\r\n\"Mh.. but your Mom said..\"\r\n\r\n\"Come
    on, tell us. Otherwise you start talking about Preu\xDFen and why Germany has
    to become more national again. So.. which font is it, Dad? Explain us the world
    - again and again..\" (My son)\r\n\r\nHarr, harr..\r\n\"Its a Tannenberg. Some
    call it a 'Nazi' font, but \" ... followed by dozends of arguments. \r\nThey all
    love me of course and they know exactly where to set small new questions or remarks.
    Their eyes are not rolling anymore, but rotating. It looks very funny and I know
    by heart: I love them, too :-)\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-12 13:51:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mangasans_5118.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-12 14:24:46'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: LOL!!!!!
  created: '2007-02-12 14:41:24'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Chris, you promised never to publish that picture of me!  ;-)
  created: '2007-02-12 15:36:30'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<cite>To discuss the details of what\u2019s supposed to be a subliminal experience,
    you might as well be a farmer, read through the menu and then describe the details
    of cattle or chicken slaughter.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou know, I never thought of it
    that way. A subliminal experience. I don't think I've ever heard anyone ever describe
    design in that way. I guess that good typography is supposed to be invisible.
    Something to catch your eye, but also to let go so you actually read it.\r\n\r\nBut
    what is wrong in cracking the illusion?"
  created: '2007-02-12 15:38:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Don't worry Linda, I am holding on to the really \"good\" pictures :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-12 15:53:47'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: ">I\u2019ve always entertained the thought of some day writing about all these
    passions and what people find so fascinating about them.\r\n\r\nWell said auricfuzz.
    It just always scares me when peoples passions take over to the point of feeling
    that it should be everyone's passion. It's boring, as my film friends have demonstrated
    to me over and over.\r\n\r\nSome of my reaction stems from living in Los Angeles,
    where I have seen many people slowly lose touch with the rest of the world and
    start to believe that the people here are the only ones who are clued in. I have
    reminded folks so many times that if you drive 50 miles in any direction people
    are different - not more stupid, just different.\r\n\r\nNothing makes this more
    apparent than presidential elections.\r\n\r\nAs long as we don't forget that there's
    a lot of people out there who LOVE Comic Sans (one of the favorite whipping boys
    here) and their opinion is no less valid. It's just different.\r\n\r\nI guess
    for my film friends it would be Pirates of the Caribbean - the Comic Sans of movies.
    Loved by the masses, hated by those \"in the know\".\r\n\r\n>But what is wrong
    in cracking the illusion?\r\n\r\nNothing as long as you don't mind having a long
    conversation about the right way to butcher an animal.\r\n\r\npeace\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-12 16:11:50'
- author:
    name: iggyboo
    picture: 109930
  body: "Good lord.. we're all officially smitten with the same problem... I still
    dont like going to places like malls and nyc because of information overload with
    typography...  Whats worse is when you start being like thats such a shitty logo
    and everyone around you thinks you're being negative when infact your just thinking
    about work! lol..\r\n\r\nJoseph"
  created: '2007-02-12 16:56:38'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "I've no need to worry (if one day I am able to ID fonts like all of youse)
    about rolling eyes.\r\n\r\nMy partner is a motorcycle enthusiast (that's too mild
    a term, actually). Usually the response to design and type-related stuff is more
    of a glazed look than eyeball-rolling. I think he really is trying to listen and
    get it, but he just doesn't. And I know behind the glazed look are thoughts of
    his ST and how many more weeks until he can set her free again. \r\n\r\nSo usually
    I'm the one rolling my eyes and tuning out when the motorcycle talk starts. He
    identifies bikes by sound or light signature, quotes torque, HP, dry weight and
    ccs. Makes my head spin. Winter has been pretty quiet, but he'll start up again
    in a couple of weeks after the motorcycle show. ;)\r\n\r\nK.\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-02-12 16:58:10'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: What rolling eyes?!
  created: '2007-02-12 17:15:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Well Kristina, you could compromise by talking about motercycle type.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ft0110_6206.jpg]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-12 17:15:59'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Actually, I haven't really received any rolling eyes yet, when talking about
    type. But then again, I usually try to type-rant only to people who know what
    I'm talking about, and rant about it themselves aswell. ;)\r\nLuckily one of my
    friends is a type-head too, so I can talk about type with him without rolleyes.\r\nWhen
    I (try) to identify typefaces I see, when being with people that are not really
    into type, they usually are more amazed then confused. \"how the hell do you know
    that?\""
  created: '2007-02-12 17:35:47'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "I used to get it all the time, so I stopped brining it up as much when we're
    out with friends unless it's horrendous, or really funny.\r\n\r\nI saw a student
    handbook the other day that was set in Base 12. I shook my head. It was from a
    Canadian university I do believe. "
  created: '2007-02-12 17:54:32'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "@ChrisL: hahahahaha! It would definitely have to not be Harley-related type.
    And most certainly *not* on my body.\r\n\r\nBut I do like the happy-go-lucky smiling
    Triumph <a= http://www.triumph.co.uk/canada/>logo</a>. It's not quite as wide
    the grin I get from riding, though.\r\n\r\nAt the risk of taking this thread wildly
    off topic, the-man-who-says-ARRR did verge on the design-related when he expressed
    his wish to adorn the blue lady (aka the ST1300) with a pin-up bomber girl decal
    like <a=http://images.google.ca/imgres?imgurl=http://www.447bg.com/library/aircraft/p_u/43-38940pu.jpg&imgrefurl=http://www.447bg.com/library/aircraft/p_u/ac_pu.html&h=446&w=650&sz=22&hl=en&start=9&tbnid=tAbnoJNNK_3oFM:&tbnh=94&tbnw=137&prev=/images%3Fq%3Dbomber%2Bgirls%26svnum%3D10%26hl%3Den%26client%3Dfirefox-a%26rls%3Dorg.mozilla:en-US:official%26hs%3DMDf%26sa%3DG>these</a>.
    I thought that was pretty cool, but she has yet to materialize. Guess that's why
    I'm (still) on the backseat. ;)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-12 18:03:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Kristina, Perhaps you would become the \"Blue Lady\" while riding his motercycle
    in this cold Winter weather? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-12 18:23:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: It's not so much rolling eyes, as I find that most people are quite interested
    in what others do for a living. It's more the incredulity that all possible typefaces
    haven't already been designed. That's led to a lot of interesting conversations.
  created: '2007-02-12 18:29:27'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Nice going, Chris! I will never make cracks in front of that waitress ever
    again! Hmm, on second thought, maybe I will.  ;-D\r\n\r\n<em>Don\u2019t worry
    Linda, I am holding on to the really \u201Cgood\u201D pictures :-)</em>\r\n\r\nLike
    <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/29951\">Lauren Bacall</a>?\r\n\r\n;-)\r\n\r\nThanks
    for making me laugh... I needed it!\r\n\r\nR."
  created: '2007-02-12 19:08:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hang in there Ricardo, tomorrow will be a better day.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-12 19:20:46'
- author:
    name: ultrasparky
    picture: 109750
  body: Pattyfab, I'm so pleased someone else finally spoke up about that Knitting
    Factory logo. I remember one show where it kept distracting me the whole time,
    despite how good the show itself was.
  created: '2007-02-12 20:52:29'
- author:
    name: littlelee
  body: "Im still studying my diploma for graphic design, and i've never been prouder
    to recognize font when im out. It means that ive actually learnt and retained
    information ive been taught! \r\nWho cares...They're only rolling their eyes because
    they feel threatened by your knowledge. mindless people!"
  created: '2007-02-12 23:33:52'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: 'If anybody needs some typo-cheering (and we all need it once in a while),
    check out Armin Vit''s recent and excellent Speak Up post: <a href="http://www.underconsideration.com/speakup/archives/002977.html"
    target="_blank">My TypoWeek</a>. I guarantee that when you reach the end, you
    will feel empowered.  :-)'
  created: '2007-02-13 00:52:24'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "I just tell them to fuck off for being so rude! I don't roll my eys when
    people are talking to me about their interests and expect them to do the same.\r\n\r\nM<uzz"
  created: '2007-02-13 03:50:52'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "\u201CShe rolled her eyes, I rolled them back\u201D\r\nGroucho Marks?\r\n\r\nOver
    here the police ride ST1300s (or 1100s) (aka Pan Europeans), how red-faced would
    that copper have been? I can bore on several subjects, bikes are one of them.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/wet-cement_4901.jpg]\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-02-13 10:22:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Tim, he was just being a stick-in-the mud :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-13 12:50:17'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I see he definitely doesn't want his boots to get dirty\u2026 :)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-02-13 16:15:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Maybe he saw too many old gangster movies where they talked about fitting
    someone for cement shoes? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-13 16:17:46'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Or as one of my fave lines from ST:TOS goes "concrete galoshes"  (Bonus points
    for episode and who spoke the line....) ;-)
  created: '2007-02-13 16:34:41'
- author:
    name: kristin
    picture: 110305
  body: "I remember walking into the French Meadow Bakery in Minneapolis with a graphic
    designer. Their menu is located on a black chalk board hanging about 15 feet up
    on the wall. \r\n\r\nThe coffee listings were all in brick-red chalk on a black
    background. My friend commented: \"If I hadn't had any yet, I sure as hell wouldn't
    be able to order the coffee here!\"\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-13 17:09:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Linda, I don't even know what \"ST:TOS\" means let alone get the bonus points!
    :-)\r\n\r\nKristin,\r\nMaybe their coffee was a Red-eye?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-13 17:25:36'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: 'Star Trek: The Original Series -- heck, Chris, you''re old enough to have
    seen it in the original run.  ;-)'
  created: '2007-02-13 17:39:30'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "@ Tim : Ouch, that's no way to treat a Honda. Yeah, that doesn't look like
    a 1300. The blue lady is much sexier than that. Then again, it's not ever easy
    to be sexy with both feet in concrete. \r\n\r\n@ Chris : We started the official
    countdown last night. He-who-says-ARRR was driving his tracker like he was riding
    the ST. We figure she'll be out mid-April. :) But a week ago, we saw some poor,
    abused Honda parked on a street corner in a snowstorm, at -20. The neglectful
    owner hadn't even covered it. We *both* cringed as we passed."
  created: '2007-02-13 18:40:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Linda,\r\nSee the original run! I auditioned for the original run! I was
    turned down for the part of Spock because I was too old for the part! :-P\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-13 20:01:02'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "ROFL!\r\n\r\nI need to enrol in the 12-step program for typographic addiction.
    \ Ran a longish errand this afternoon here by walking for 90 minutes in -30C windchill,
    and on my way home, I spotted a new sign in the trendy shopping area that borders
    the 'hood.  \r\n\r\n\"Ah,\" thought I, \"Optima: Chris hates Optima.\"  As I got
    closer, I realized that it indeed had a very small serif and was, in fact, not
    Optima. So I stood there for a good five minutes, trying to figure out what it
    was, and thinking about going home to get my camera, take a picture, and post
    it up on the Type ID Board. (And I still haven't figured it out it yet!).  \r\n\r\n\"My
    name is Linda, and I'm addicted to type.\""
  created: '2007-02-13 21:36:11'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: Back in the mid-90s I took part in a Usenet group for people who were interested
    in vinyl LP records. It was called <em>Analogue Addicts.</em> Unfortunately it
    developed some internal disputes (not as respectful and balanced a community as
    Typophile seems to be) and fragmented. But back in the glory days I suggested
    that we call ourselves <em>Analogue Addicts -- A 12-Inch Program.</em>
  created: '2007-02-13 22:59:42'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: ">  (not as respectful and balanced a community as Typophile seems to be)\r\n\r\nMust
    have been scary indeed! :)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-02-13 23:31:50'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "Paul Cutler said:\r\n<cite>Film is the most important thing in the world
    to them and I understand. But they should understand that I only like film for
    enjoyment and couldn\u2019t care less about their adroit analysis.</cite>\r\n\r\nReplace
    \"film\" with \"typography\" and you got the perfect description for all of us
    :-)\r\n\r\nNow, on the subject, my advertising buddies will usually say either
    \"Nice serif... What font was it set in, Bram?\" or \"Okay, let's keep on walking
    here\".\r\n\r\nOn rare occasion they would throw crappy pickup lines like \"Baby,
    you got the perfect baseline\" or suggestive remarks like \"Kern me <i>tight</i>!\"\r\n\r\nThem
    copywriters :-)"
  created: '2007-02-14 05:46:37'
- author:
    name: Raphael Daudelin
  body: "It's funny because I've been reading all the previous posts, and I think
    that when I talk about type to most of my friends who aren't familiar to typesetting
    and type design, they seem interested. \r\n\r\nMe and my partner have a theory
    to explain the lack of knowledge on type design. In a movie the stars are the
    actors and the director, though people are aware that someone has been paid to
    design the set, another one to do the lighting, another to work on the special
    effects and so on. What is more complicated with type is that almost everybody
    has learned to write. The act of writting is given to almos everyone, which makes
    it natural. The other thing is that: it comes with the computer, it's already
    in it when you buy it. Who would imagine that someone designed it.\r\n\r\nI think
    that being passionate about something allows you to talk about almost anything
    and be interesting, unless you're trying to brainwash your audience. For example,
    I always tought curling was so boring. Until a friend of mine who is a curling
    passionate, explain me in a bar, drawing the ice with coasters, the rules and
    the issues of playing curling. You know what? I'll probably go give it a try."
  created: '2007-02-14 06:38:39'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "My roomate has gotten to the point now that he'll see a funky typeface and
    mock me.\r\n\r\n\"You see that? That's a second century Baroni middle-face with
    very long extensions made by the Dutch master painter Vermeer's cousin. You can
    tell by the size of the big F. Very rare. Very rare.\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-14 06:49:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Typography freaks are very tame compared to dancers. While in graduade school,
    I shared a house with 6 dancers. All they EVER talked about was movement (and
    injuries). The women didn't even talk about clothes and the guys only mention
    of sports was to discuss kinds of movement they could borrow for a dance routine.
    If I were gesturing to try to describe something design related, they would start
    talking about the gesture and not about design.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-14 15:27:50'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "They needed <a href=\"http://www.threadless.com/product/696/Interpretive_Dance\">this
    t-shirt</a>, Chris! \r\n\r\n;-D"
  created: '2007-02-16 05:13:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yes Ricardo! They would have taken all that \"silly Lettering\" off though
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-16 15:16:45'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "I admit, I point things like that out. Partly because it's fun, but also
    partly to demonstrate how pervasive type really is. I agree with David that there
    are times where it's supposed to be subconscious, but that certainly doesn't apply
    all of the time. Type can have a great deal of character and presence. I, as a
    designer, capitalize on that regularly.\r\n\r\nBut I never expect people to care
    too much about font geekery, and I keep it to a casual statement. A lot of times
    people crack jokes, and occasionally someone asks me to elaborate, but many of
    my friends are more type-conscious/-sensitive now as a result. You can't really
    make people care, but you can open a few eyes. If you're at a party and two people
    out of twenty think \"hmm, that's interesting, I never thought of that\", then
    they take that awareness with them. Perhaps you're saving another graphic designer
    a headache, or even creating a font license sale for some indie font designer
    down the road.\r\n\r\nBut if someone actually rolls their eyes, I usually tell
    them \"I admit, it's a subtle thing, but both god and the devil are in the details,
    so type designers are keeping some pretty interesting company.\""
  created: '2007-02-16 16:01:56'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "You're right. My roommate now knows how much work goes into a typeface, and
    that there are indeed hard working people who put many long hours into even the
    simplest of typefaces. I'm sure that he would never steal a typeface conscientiously
    via filesharing, etc., because of that.\r\n\r\nOf course, he said he'll never
    buy a font, since I already have a ton of them. He says it's like sharing a cd
    or something."
  created: '2007-02-17 06:10:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Some might say it is more like sharing a tooth brush :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-17 14:15:00'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "Here's how much of a type geek I am: I stumbled on this forum while researching
    what years the Boston Police used Futura Black on its patrol cars (thanks, Bruce),
    so I could include in a comment I was making about a 1929 Chinese restaurant ad
    posted on a food/cooking blog. If that doesn't make their eyes roll, they're dead.\r\nType
    geek heaven is the Society of Printers (hi, Bruce), a 104-year-old Boston institution
    where you can start a dinner conversation about the difference between Electra
    Cursive and Electra Italic and not one of the 100 eyes in the room will roll. "
  created: '2008-12-31 21:50:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '''Waiter, can I have a menu set in a different typeface please?'''
  created: '2009-01-01 02:09:15'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: '"Waiter, there''s a hairline in my soup. I specifically asked for no Bodoni."'
  created: '2009-01-01 03:08:37'
date: '2007-02-11 01:42:37'
node_type: forum
title: How do you deal with rolling eyes?

---
