---
author:
  name: circehouse
  picture: 112151
body: "So I've been trying to solve this problem for awhile now. I've searched through
  various forms, and everyone has the same few tips to offer, and of course none of
  them work.\r\n\r\nDoes anyone here have that problem? When outputing .pdf files
  black appears as a grey. It's driving me crazy. No matter how I adjust appearance
  of black settings or my rich black portions It still screws me every time. My recent
  hack has been to simply set all my blacks to \"registration\" but obviously that's
  not the right solution.\r\n\r\nAm I missing something obvious? From what i've found
  from others, this is a big problem. I hope cs3 will fix this."
comments:
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: "If you\u2019re outputting it for print (CMYK) it will appear dark grey (which
    shouldn\u2019t matter too much as it will print as a true black). If you\u2019re
    outputting it for screen (RGB) it will appear as a rich black."
  created: '2007-02-10 23:02:11'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I don't have this problem at all. What PDF format are you using and are your
    CS color settings synced up? What color settings are you using and what is your
    desired output?\r\n\r\nI hope these aren't for print because if you send in registration
    black you are asking for a very angry printer.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-02-10 23:02:59'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "<em>...simply set all my blacks to \u201Cregistration\u201D</em> \r\n\r\nTyler,
    I know I shouldn't but hahahahahahahahaha. That's funny. RTFM, as they say. You
    fail to mention exactly how or where this grey-that-should-be-black is appearing,
    or which tips don't work or rather why you think they don't work.\r\n\r\nSomething
    like <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Official-Adobe-Print-Publishing-Second/dp/0321304667/sr=8-3/qid=1171149388/ref=sr_1_3/102-0679131-3310534?ie=UTF8&s=books\">the
    Adobe Print Publishing Guide</a> should sort you out."
  created: '2007-02-10 23:24:37'
- author:
    name: circehouse
    picture: 112151
  body: "I often find myself designing .pdf files intended to be downloaded and printed
    on laser printers\u2014nothing demanding of pre-press workers. It's not often
    that a printer needs a .pdf anyhow. So up until now, that absurd registration
    trick hasn't been an issue.\r\n\r\nanyhow, i've solved my problem. sometimes you
    just need to say things out loud to find the answers. Thanks for slapping me in
    the face. \r\n"
  created: '2007-02-10 23:51:35'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "> anyhow, i\u2019ve solved my problem.\r\n\r\nHow?"
  created: '2007-02-11 00:09:36'
- author:
    name: noftus
    picture: 111246
  body: "yes, how did you solve it?\r\n\r\ni often have this problem as well..."
  created: '2007-02-11 07:58:44'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "In Acrobat Pro you may turn on the overprint preview to see how it will look
    like in print. But as Conor already said: It's just the way how 100% black in
    a CMYK document looks like on screen. Nothing to worry about.\r\n\r\nRalf\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-11 08:55:12'
- author:
    name: filip blazek
    picture: 110363
  body: When exporting PDF to be printed on black & white printer, switch off color
    management in InDesign. Then the black will be black in PDF.
  created: '2007-02-11 09:50:49'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>But as Conor already said: It\u2019s just the way how 100% black in
    a CMYK document looks like on screen. Nothing to worry about.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo,
    it affects printing on (some) laser printers too.\r\n\r\n<cite>When exporting
    PDF to be printed on black & white printer, switch off color management in InDesign.
    Then the black will be black in PDF.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, this is what I did. But
    since CM is regarded as a must today, and on certain forums turning CM off is
    almost regarded as a bad \"hack\", I wonder if there's an official solution to
    this.&nbsp;&nbsp;:)"
  created: '2007-02-11 13:52:10'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Are we talking about PDFs for screen, offset or laser/inkjet printing? \r\nAnd
    are we talking about black text or something like a big black rectangle. For large
    areas of black you may wan't to add some cyan to your black to get a richer black
    in offset/laser printing. But don't use this black for text.\r\n\r\nRalf\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-11 14:22:58'
- body: "I have this same problem and have been unable to figure it out with the suggestions
    above?  Any ideas?\r\n\r\nWarren"
  created: '2007-08-08 22:06:06'
- author:
    name: Kristine Hamilton
  body: Alrighty. I understand the PDF will appear greyish on screen, but the overprint
    preview also doesn't look right. I guess I want someone to tell me that it TRULY
    will print as black, and if there's any way to preview a print-ready file as black,
    on screen.
  created: '2007-09-12 18:17:53'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Check your InDesign (and Illustrator) preferences > Appearance of Black and
    amend them to display and output all blacks accurately, they will look grey (compared
    to the rich black). To preview a print-ready file you could print separations
    as a pdf and then open it in Photoshop or Illustrator and check the setting in
    the colour palette.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-09-12 18:29:39'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>I guess I want someone to tell me that it TRULY will print as black,</cite>\r\n\r\nNever
    trust the screen, trust the numbers. If it says 100% black it will print black. "
  created: '2007-09-12 19:30:34'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Then again, black offset-ink on white stock isn't really all that black, either.
    ;)
  created: '2007-09-14 01:02:20'
- author:
    name: dcastillo
    picture: 110726
  body: "When you have a value of 0,0,0,100% (C,M,Y,K) as your black, it won't show
    up as the deepest black in print (though it's not bad).  Acrobat reveals this
    fact, as it tends to be a print previewer of sorts (don't quote me on that, but
    I do use the program to double-check if I missed a black value here and there).
    \ The printers I deal with usually would add 65% to the cyan values to make it
    deeper (when printing full color).  If you want the deepest of the deep, just
    set all CMYK values to 100%, it's just much more difficult to register, especially
    say, if you have type set in 6pt, light, in white, on top, of that.\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-14 02:53:28'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Even if you add like 30 and/or 40 % of CMY to your black, it will look much
    better. That's what I do if I really want something to be deep black.
  created: '2007-09-14 03:18:12'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "As a previous poster mentioned, DON'T set your blacks to be 100c100m100y100k.
    Most printers have maximum density (dmax) value -- the sum of all the percentages
    of the 4 process colors -- somewhere in the low 300s.\r\n\r\n\"Rich\" black recipes
    vary by printer -- be sure to ask yours. Our magazine printers prefer a 40c20m20y100k
    blend."
  created: '2007-09-14 06:03:58'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Colourmanaged output will vary according to the outputprofile. Eg in newsprint
    dot gain (the amount that inkt will spread when printed on that specific substrate)
    can be up to 20% or more. That means that the original values of tints etcetera
    will have to be corrected to account for this. Outputting with a newsprint profile
    could lead to a full black being output as an 80% blacktint.\r\n\r\nThe same principle
    applies to other substrates and press techniques.\r\n\r\nRe printing standards:
    In Europe offsetprinting has been standardized according to an ISO-norm, set by
    the European Color Initiative. More info here:\r\nhttp://www.eci.org/eci/en/041_offset.php\r\nPut
    simply: working with ISO-certified printers and the standard profiles from ECI
    guarantees satisfying results, irrespective of press profiles and such (those
    are used in house by the printers).\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t know what the situation
    in the US is nowadays, but a couple of years ago standardisation was strictly
    something done by the major printing companies (and publishers that use different
    printers).\r\n\r\n___\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2007-09-14 14:37:18'
- author:
    name: Danny Yee
  body: Circehouse - For the benefit of the forum, can you tell us your solution?
    I'm also having this problem! Thanks!
  created: '2007-11-17 01:45:11'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Why is everyone calling it a 'problem'? :)\r\n\r\nIt is not a problem; it
    is just the way CMYK or K black looks on screen.\r\n \r\nIf you chose black (K),
    it will print as black. If you don't trust it will, check color separations in
    Acrobat (or photoshop). If your PDF is for screen only, you could make the black
    RGB.\r\n\r\nAnd if you want a true, rich black in print; add some color to K,
    e.g. 0C 60M 30Y 100K (I think this will also look more black on screen. And is
    obviously only suitable for full color print jobs)."
  created: '2007-11-17 03:17:30'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>Why is everyone calling it a \u2019problem\u2019? :)</cite>\r\n\r\nBecause
    it is a problem. If I need a client to sign off on a pdf, I need it to look on
    screen as close as possible to how it will actually print. Saying don't worry
    it will print black requires a leap of faith in my clients and I don't feel comfortable
    with that. I don't understand why Adobe can't fix this bug."
  created: '2007-11-17 14:50:46'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "@Quincunx: The original question had nothing to do with Rich Black. The problem
    lies in the way pdf's get generated with colormanagement on. Maybe my 14 Sept.
    post wasn't very clear\u2026 : )\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2007-11-17 14:54:54'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: ">>>If I need a client to sign off on a pdf, I need it to look on screen as
    close as possible to how it will actually print.\r\n\r\nThen you should send them
    a PDF in an RGB color space. \r\nAgain, it's not a bug, and there is nothing for
    Adobe to fix.\r\n\r\nRalf\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-17 18:42:56'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I create my files in CMYK because I work in print. I don't understand why
    black doesn't look black. That seems like a bug to me. And I am clearly not the
    only one bothered by it, as evidenced by this thread.\r\n\r\nI did change my preferences
    in InDesign for Appearance of Black to Rich Black, and am hopeful this will solve
    the problem but I haven't tested it out. "
  created: '2007-11-17 19:12:40'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em> I create my files in CMYK because I work in print. I don\u2019t understand
    why black doesn\u2019t look black. That seems like a bug to me. And I am clearly
    not the only one bothered by it, as evidenced by this thread.\r\n\r\nI did change
    my preferences in InDesign for Appearance of Black to Rich Black, and am hopeful
    this will solve the problem but I haven\u2019t tested it out.</em>\r\n\r\nIf you
    are going to let a client sign off on a pdf <em>on screen</em>, making it an RGB
    PDF is not even that strange? (since screens are RGB). If you want it CMYK, add
    some color to your blacks, and it will look better. I don't think that's such
    a big problem? ;)\r\n\r\n> <em>@Quincunx: The original question had nothing to
    do with Rich Black. The problem lies in the way pdf\u2019s get generated with
    colormanagement on. Maybe my 14 Sept. post wasn\u2019t very clear\u2026 : )</em>\r\n\r\nI
    know the original question was not about rich black, I was commenting on everyone
    calling K showing up as grey in PDF 'a problem'.\r\n\r\nMy point was, if you want
    a good black on screen: use rich black (or RGB). It will make black look more
    black in PDF. If you are working with black on full color jobs, in most cases
    it's wise you use rich black anyway (all non-text objects). If you use only K,
    the grey in Acrobat isn't even that far off from the way it will look in print
    (e.g. crappy greyish black)."
  created: '2007-11-17 23:57:40'
- author:
    name: Miguelzinho
    picture: 113147
  body: "if your running InDesign CS2 then go to >Prefenrences > The Appearance of
    Black.\r\n\r\nIt will give you options for the appreance of black on gray scale
    and RGB devices. Or have you already tried that? "
  created: '2007-11-18 00:30:33'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Miguelzinho, yes I have changed that preference.\r\n\r\nQuincunx, it still
    just seems odd to me that 100%K will not render as black in a pdf. I do use rich
    black for printing, but that's beside the point. 100%K ought to look black, period.
    It does when you make a pdf from Quark."
  created: '2007-11-18 06:32:22'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I'm with Patty, one of the major uses of Acrobat is for client approval and
    if it doesn't represent the project accurately it isn't doing the job. An RGB
    hack, while it might improve the appearance black, doesn't necessarily represent
    spot colours and images well.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-11-18 11:41:26'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Just a couple of notes:\r\n\r\nSetting black elements to \"registration\"
    will print as a 400% rich black (full CMYK) on color PostScript devices. As this
    is well over the total ink limit, it's will look like crud (even on toner-based
    devices such as PS color laser printers).\r\n\r\nI agree with the posters who
    are saying that the Acrobat PDF display is \"not a bug.\" Have you ever studied
    color management at all? For pre-press purposes, the whole point is typically
    to maintain visual distinctions and map the entire gamut of one device to another.
    If Acrobat displays a 0C-0M-0Y-100K black as the darkest possible black, what
    it is it supposed to do with a 100-100-100-100 black? (Okay, maybe it's a 30-30-30-100
    black, same idea - it needs to be darker than that previous black.) If you make
    the PDF in RGB, with the right settings, presumably you can get a 0-0-0 RGB black,
    and that's the darkest black, period. It will display great on screen. It will
    print on color devices as a maximum rich black, though, which may or may not be
    desirable.\r\n\r\nYou could also try in Acrobat going to Preferences > Color Management
    > Conversion Options turning off \"Use black point compensation, and see what
    effect that has.\r\n\r\nNote also: If you are having a problem with your black
    looking grey *in print*, in many workflows the best solution when making documents
    in InDesign is to go to Edit > Color Settings and under \"Color Management Policies\"
    set CMYK to \"Preserve Numbers (Ignore Linked Profiles)\". This essentially turns
    off color management for CMYK elements in the document, such as text.\r\n\r\nWith
    that configuration you can still place RGB photos and have them properly color
    managed (set RGB to \"Preserve Embedded Profiles\"), and Bob's yer uncle. Leastways,
    this has always worked well for me in InDesign.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-11-20 05:15:28'
- author:
    name: kurtdurfey
  body: "Going back to the original issue, I've working on a newly installed version
    of InDesign CS3, and my 100% black is exporting as dark grey. it's an issue with
    print because a black that's not completely black screens the type and it compromises
    the legibility of thin copy. Contrary to everybody's assumption that \"if it says
    100% black, it'll print 100% black\", there's something going on in my InDesign
    color setting that's converting it, and I need to figure it out. \r\n\r\nThe oddest
    part is that, if I click on the color in my tool bar, the RGB samples at low numbers.
    If it were a TRUE black, those should all show up as zeros, right? If I convert
    it to 400% rich black, then it show RGB values at zero, but with CM&Y at zero,
    RGB is registering values, and that ain't black.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I couldn't
    care less how it looks on screen, but it has to print correctly. Converting it
    rich black is a good idea because this particular job is going on a copier, but
    it would be problematic if I were going to press and the Black plate showed up
    as a 90% screen. \r\n\r\nI'll tool around in other forums to see if I can't figure
    it out. I wish I knew how that other fella fixed it."
  created: '2008-06-11 20:20:30'
- author:
    name: kurtdurfey
  body: "Well, upon closer examination, it looks like the .pdf will actually plate
    okay. We're running a short run on the copier, and 10,000 more in black ink on
    press, so we needed to make sure that the black exported at 100%. When we exported
    it and took to to the copier, though, we needed to print rich black (even though
    we weren't printing CMYK) to get a 100% value. \r\n\r\nSomething to note for production,
    I s'pose. "
  created: '2008-06-11 20:57:17'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: You can also check the separations in either InDesign, Photoshop or Acrobat
    Pro. If everything in the rest of your workflow is right, you should see that
    100K will plate just fine. If you have your apps set right, you should see 100%
    when you use the color picker in separations in Acrobat Pro for example (Advanced
    -> Print Production -> Output Preview with your desired color profile).
  created: '2008-06-13 03:06:51'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "@kurt:\r\n\r\nLooking at colour values in the RGB PDF is a distraction -
    you're specifying your colours in CMYK and printing them in CMYK (or just K).\r\n\r\nCMYK
    and RGB colours aren't just different numerical ways of specifying a colour -
    c0 m0 y0 k100 does not equal r0 g0 b0, and you can't just convert to and from
    RGB and CMYK.\r\n\r\nAs Quincunx says, separations make it clearer what your end
    result is going to be, because they show what ink is actually going to get laid
    down.\r\n\r\nSo I always send a composite CMYK PDF to the printers, and if there's
    anything other than CMYK in the art, PDF separations as well.\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-13 12:27:55'
- author:
    name: Krab
  body: "I have this same problem. PDFs created from InDesign print on a Laser Printer
    with a half-tone screen (though dark\u2026 somewhere on the order of 95% screen)
    even though the CMYK value is 0,0,0,100. When I print to the same printer directly
    from InDesign file, it\u2019s solid. They also display as a dark grey as well
    in PDF, but like the poster above, I don\u2019t really care how it looks on screen.\r\n\r\nI
    know what it\u2019s trying to do\u2026 it\u2019s trying to emulate the way black
    by itself looks like when it is printed on an offset press\u2014not so black.
    To do that on a digital laser printer, it screens the black ever so slightly so
    it looks grey.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve done a lot of trouble-shooting with this too to
    make sure that the error is in InDesign. I\u2019ve got PitStop and can select
    the shape in Acrobat that is printing as a screened half-tone to view its values
    and its values are 0,0,0,100 but it still prints as a screen. I\u2019ve created
    a shape in Acrobat and gave it the same fill values of 0,0,0,100 and it prints
    solid. So, one created in Acrobat doesn\u2019t simulate offset black-only black.
    So, something in the PDF made from InDesign tells it to simulate offset cmyk black
    only printing. Thanks Adobe!\r\n\r\nIn InDesign, I do have the preference \"Appearance
    of Black\" for both the \u201CScreen\u201D and \u201CPrinting / Exporting\u201D
    set to Rich Black, but changing it to any combination doesn\u2019t seem to effect
    the problem I am having. For some reason, when I export to a PDF, it seems to
    ignore that setting.\r\n\r\nThere are work-arounds that let me do what I need,
    but I\u2019d like to learn why it\u2019s doing what it is doing and how to tell
    it not to do that.\r\n\r\nThanks\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-01 23:37:47'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "See the last couple of paragraphs of my post of 19 Nov 2007 (above, in this
    thread), which explain pretty clearly how to avoid this, when printing to a native
    CMYK device such as a PostScript color printer.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-09-09 05:39:18'
- author:
    name: dkairis
  body: "First off i have to say wow you are all uber colour spacialists.  I on the
    other hand am not. but refering back to the original question about getting black
    to show up in PDF files looking like 100c 100m 100y 100k, i have a small solution.\r\n\r\nI
    did however chagne my black to 100c 100m 100y 100k, using indesign (yes we know
    this is a no no for offset printing. printed to PDF again and the blacks looked
    great. except for the linked image from illustrator???  so i opened the original
    file changed it to CMYK and changed the black to 100c 100m 100y 100k.  went back
    to indesign printed to PDF and ??? it still looked bad.\r\n\r\nwhat i had to do
    was delete the PDF file and print again, maybe even using a new file name could
    help.  well it did. all blacks look realy solid and sharp.\r\n\r\nagain this is
    just for PDF viewing, and printing on some laser printers who do tend to show
    a differnce between the balcks."
  created: '2009-09-18 13:47:53'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Again: There is NO need to change the colors in the original file! Just change
    the EXPORT settings according to your destination device. If you want black to
    appear as RGB 0/0/0 on a screen, just export it with export settings that convert
    the CMYK colors to RGB. The [Smallest file size] preset will do this, for example.
    \r\nWe usually send our clients low-res PDFs with this settings. CMYK black (0/0/0/100)
    will then automatically change to RGB 0/0/0. Without the color conversion the
    CMYK black would be displayed greyish as RGB 26/26/26 or something similar. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-27 19:49:32'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: "I have a similar issue.\r\n\r\nI have a 2-page InDesign file. The front (page
    1) uses a black box (0,0,0,100) drawn in InDesign. The back (page 2) used a CMYK
    Photoshop file (.psd) which serves as the black background (0,0,0,100).\r\nInDesign
    displays page 1 as a rich black (as my preferences specify) but page 2 looks washed
    out, like a one-color black (as it should). No problems so far - until I export
    from InDesign to PDF. The on-screen difference remains the same.\r\nI have tried
    turning the InDesign prefs to not change any appearance of blacks but this did
    not work.\r\n\r\nMy question is, how can an InDesign PDF export match these seemingly
    identical one-color blacks using a combination of InDesign elements and placed
    CMYK bitmaps or PSDs?"
  created: '2010-01-04 19:48:15'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Have you checked if the PDF output is in RGB or CMYK?
  created: '2010-01-04 20:17:36'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Has the proper colour profile been attached to the PSD-file?\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert
    Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2010-01-05 11:26:04'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I don't understand why someone would not want to see on screen what is going
    to print. So I set my ID preferences to display and output all black accurately.
    I need to see the difference between a rich black and 0 0 0 100.\r\n\r\nI guess
    that's kind of beside the point. Make sure your color settings are synched up.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-01-07 02:52:11'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "@jay: I think the difference in appearance between the placed content and
    the native InDesign rectangle is because of color profiles. Perhaps the right
    profile isn't attached to the .psd file, or InDesign is set to ignore it. \r\n\r\nThe
    .psd should have the same profile that the InDesign document uses, and InDesign
    should then be set to either preserve linked profiles (when the right one is attached)
    or replace it with the right working profile. The first option is best."
  created: '2010-01-08 22:30:29'
- author:
    name: chesley
  body: Hey guys.. that trick for turning off color management also helped me get
    unscreened type on my 1200 dpi laser printer. Thanks!
  created: '2010-01-20 19:55:39'
- author:
    name: Jeronimo
  body: "I've had the same irritating problem. After long research there are some
    things I found. As some people mentioned before the only solution is to use rich
    black. Just 100%K is going to print 80%k.\r\n\r\nIn InDesign go to Preferences
    > Appearance of Black. The thing you find is some options: On Screen, Printing
    / Exporting and Overprinting of Black.\r\nFrom the menu you can choose two options
    each time: \"Display All Blacks as Rich Black or Display All Blacks Accurately\"
    If you work with the first option, the 100% black is presented by InDesign as
    \"Rich Black\" (that is a mix of CMYK colors, presented for the eye as black,
    so not 100%K). When you choose the second option (accurately) you notice that
    the 100% black is actually darkgrey for the eye.\r\nThis has nothing to do with
    exporting with PDF/x standards or none. If exporting in RGB the pdf just fakes
    the 100% black to rich black on the screen. So exporting with PDF/x standard in
    CMYK is accurate. When printed it is still darkgrey, and when imported again in
    Photoshop or InDesign you can see the black is still +/- 80%K instead of 100%K.\r\n\r\nHere
    are some different settings for rich black:\r\n63C, 52M, 51Y, 100K\r\n30C, 20M,
    20Y, 100K\r\n60C, 40M, 40Y, 100K\r\n\r\nThis solved my problems.\r\nIf you want
    100% K black to print on top of the CMYK colors uncheck \"Overprint [Black] Swatch
    at 100%\". Or else it will become transparant.\r\n\r\nThis website was helpful
    to me, check it out: http://www.graphic-design-employment.com/over-printing.html\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-15 10:34:03'
- author:
    name: Jeronimo
  body: "@ jayyy:\r\nPhotoshop (earlier versies I think) black is C75, M68, Y67, K90.
    At CS4 it is C88, M79, Y65, K93 that is the rich black Photoshop uses, not 100%K.
    So if you are using 100%K in InDesign that is the cause of the difference.\r\nTry
    to stay within a total of 280%, or the ink won't dry that good. So in that case
    the Photoshop rich black is to much. According to some resources 300% is possible
    too.\r\n\r\nIf you make a good rich black swatch, with the same CMYK settings
    both in Photoshop and InDesign, your problem should be solved. Make sure that
    both the .indd and .psd file have the same CMYK profile.\r\nCheck the website
    link in my previous post, it helped me.\r\n\r\nHope this helps you to.\r\n "
  created: '2010-03-15 10:35:23'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>Just 100%K is going to print 80%k.</em>\r\n\r\nNo, it will not. 100K
    will obviously print as 100K. However, optically it doesn't look pitch black,
    because offset inks <em>aren't completely opaque</em>, making the printing surface
    shine through a little.\r\n\r\nIn full color jobs you can indeed make the black
    more pitch black by using what has already been mentioned as 'rich black', which
    is a blend of all four colors (e.g. 30/40/40/100 or similar). This will make the
    ink-coverage nearly opaque, resulting in a dark black. Obviously you <em>shouldn't
    do this</em> when you are working on something that will be printed in black and
    white (i.e. one color, K only), because rich black will produce four printing
    plates instead of one. It's usually best if you only apply rich black to larger
    surfaces, because very fine details could in some cases cause registration problems.\r\n\r\nAs
    has been said before in this thread, if you use 100K, the PDF will show that as
    a very dark grey. This is not a bug, but intended behavior for prepress purposes,
    so please stop calling it a 'problem', because it isn't. If you want really dark
    blacks in your PDF's for <em>screen purposes only</em>, export it as RGB or temporarily
    make the black a rich black.\r\n\r\nThe blend you use for rich black determines
    what 'shade' of black you will get. I.e. more magenta and yellow will result in
    a warm black, while more cyan will make a cool black.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-03 22:06:18'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Jeronimo - these mixtures you site are simply what different color profiles
    convert pure black from RGB into. They are not \"recommended\" at all. Do the
    math - c75 y68 m67 k90 simply adds up to 300% total ink, which is the ink limit
    if you are using SWOP  V2 (the most popular magazine color space). It's been the
    same in PS for a long time and still is - do the math on your other mixture -
    c88 m79 y65 k93 = 325 total ink. You have changed your color profile, that is
    all.\r\n\r\nRich black is typically K=100 with undercoating, that is because ink
    is slightly transparent. If you want to know what \"temperature\" your undercoating
    is - look to the left of the color sliders in Photoshop and you can see it. If
    you want your undercoating completely neutral - make sure that CMY are equal.
    I have never seen a valid reason for anything more than 240% - that doesn't mean
    a reason doesn't exist.\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-04 02:17:32'
- author:
    name: Quack
  body: "Well, you see, basically the problem is the following: Your pdf is perfecly
    good for offset separations but it still prints as approx. 80% gray on a laser.
    \r\n\r\nThe solution is extremely simple if you have Pitstop in Acrobat (you have
    a default action \"Convert Color to Gray and keep Black text\" :) additional steps
    and gray color profile http://www.penpro.rs/ [google translate to english, it's
    currently available only on serbian :)])\r\n\r\nIf you don't have Pitstop, there
    is an other solution: From Indesign (any version) print to .ps file with separations
    enabled, turn off CMY plates, leave just the black channel. Destill the ps file
    and voila... you are good to go, the pdf now prints 100% black.\r\n\r\nOne more
    solution: Open pdf in Acrobat, select file>save as>postscript(*.ps), click settings
    to the right, under Output->Color:separations, ink manager: turn off CMY, leave
    just Black on. Click OK, Save. Distill the file, and once more you are good to
    go.\r\n\r\nExplanation: From the aspect of laser printers, there is a great difference
    between CMYK and gray colors. C0M0Y0K100 isn't black (its stupid, but thats the
    way it is), only Gray 100% prints as 100% black (RGB translates depending on printer
    color profiles etc. its not convenient color mode for solving this problem). Turning
    on separation when printing, automatically creates grayscale mode PDF, so it solves
    the problem above :))\r\nOne more thing, with the Touchup object tool select the
    text line, right click and select properties, if under the color tab the Color
    Space is Gray or DeviceGray it will print correctly. Just to don't waste more
    paper than you must :)"
  created: '2011-05-30 10:08:04'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: "I've had this same issue\r\n<a href=\"http://jamest1.tumblr.com/photo/1280/4496632991/1/tumblr_ljg25ggjdg1qgefe9\">See
    here</a>\r\n\r\nThe text on the left side is set against \"black\" and was done
    in indesign. the rest of the background (with the handwriting), was done in Photoshop.\r\n\r\nWhen
    it printed, everything was the same, correct, black."
  created: '2011-05-31 02:38:05'
- author:
    name: oxedio
    picture: 123398
  body: "Printing problem in Indesing CS4:\r\nMy black text turns out grey (dotted)\r\n\r\nI
    read a lot about 'turn off' color management.\r\nIn this forum Thomas Phinney
    came up with:\r\n\"Note also: If you are having a problem with your black looking
    grey *in print*, in many workflows the best solution when making documents in
    InDesign is to go to Edit > Color Settings and under \"Color Management Policies\"
    set CMYK to \"Preserve Numbers (Ignore Linked Profiles)\". This essentially turns
    off color management for CMYK elements in the document, such as text.\"\r\n\r\nBut
    can't find the solution in my CS4 version of Indesign."
  created: '2011-09-17 13:38:04'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "If all your text is black you could check the option \u2018Text as Black\u2019
    in the Print:Output window\u2026"
  created: '2011-09-17 13:42:18'
- author:
    name: oxedio
    picture: 123398
  body: "I wish it was this simple...\r\n\r\nBlack text still appears dotted grey"
  created: '2011-09-17 13:52:56'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "To change the Printer Profile navigate to Colour Management in the Print
    dialogue. It\u2019s in the second box.\r\nIf this doesn\u2019t work try printing
    your document in Proof-mode (same place, first box \u2014 check Proof)."
  created: '2011-09-19 14:21:05'
- author:
    name: Drunkard
  body: "To save a PDF with Rich Text from InDesign go - Export/Save/Output -\r\n\r\nThen
    Select:\r\nAdobe PDF Preset: \"[Smallest File Size]\"\r\nDestination: \"Working
    RGB - Apple RGB\"\r\n\r\nNote this is NOT for printing rather for sending PDFs
    to clients for approval."
  created: '2014-01-09 12:18:54'
- author:
    name: mashland
  body: "I create a lot of documents that are used in both print and web.  I create
    in AI CC CMYK.  If I'm sending an item for print, I'll create the PDF and send
    it as an attachment.\r\n\r\nBut for web or email use, I use EXPORT (under file)
    on the existing AI CMYK document and then select JPEG (or whatever image type
    you want for web use) and set is RGB and maximum quality.  When I send these to
    my clients, I always let them know one is for web (for embedding in emails, etc)
    and one is for print (pdf) and not to mix them up in those uses.\r\n\r\nI have
    to say, most of the comments on this thread are awfully snarky.  Those of you
    who know what you're doing could dial the arrogance down a tad and see if you
    can simply answer the effing question.\r\n\r\n--m"
  created: '2015-02-24 01:01:57'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: FYI most of the comments in this discussion are 4 to 8 years old, and some
    of the posters aren't around anymore.
  created: '2015-02-24 04:13:37'
date: '2007-02-10 22:56:17'
title: InDesign Black Output on PDF Export

---
