---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: "http://www.rootsweb.com/~scberkel/Cemeteries/Wass_Pics/shula_law.jpg\r\n\r\nI
  never knew Vincent's grandma cut headstones!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "By the way, here is how a headstone is done in our cemeteries:\r\nAfter the
    burial of the deceased, the grave is sealed with a stone placed horizontally (not
    vertically) then the electric stone-cutter is driven from LTR inscribing the RTL
    wh+how info in fascinating Calligraphy, without prior outlining. More surprisingly,
    the inscription takes place only after fixing the stone leaving no room for errors.
    Incredible!"
  created: '2007-02-12 07:46:31'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: I spat the coffee at my mac two times. Hrant, a little warning sign would
    be appropriate. If done properly, of course.
  created: '2007-02-12 08:01:29'
- author:
    name: matthew_desmond
    picture: 110578
  body: Typographic comedy gold. Bravo.
  created: '2007-02-12 19:34:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "A cut above the rest!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-12 19:52:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "What's the joke? \r\nShula was 19.\r\nHer folks spent all their money on
    the coffin, and couldn't afford a professional marker?\r\n\r\nWE.SAW.YOU.SUFFER\r\nWE.SAW.YOU.GO.IT\r\nCRUSHED.OUR.HARTS.\r\nWE.LOVE.YOU.SO.BUT\r\nIT.WAS.GOD.WHO.LOVED\r\nYOU.BEST.WHO.TOOK\r\nYOU.HOME.AND.GAVE\r\nYOU.REST\r\n\r\nThe
    Ancient Roman style of periods-for-spaces is very cool\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-12 21:08:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I believe Hrant saw the lettering as kin to Comic Sans.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-12 21:37:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well for money they could've just sold those\r\ndeer carcasses to the local
    sausage factory.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-12 22:17:17'
- author:
    name: "Grot Esqu\xE9"
    picture: 128337
  body: Is that a <em>pun</em>ishment?
  created: '2007-02-12 22:25:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: OK, that raised a groan.
  created: '2007-02-12 22:44:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'd much rather have raised Shula, to ask\r\nher exactly how her parents
    were related.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n\"After a'carvin' S-H-U-L-A-dot-dot-L-A, pappy
    got dumb gab dizzy from standin' up so long, so maama took a shot at the dubya...
    So weez give her the job of holdin' up pappy 'nstead, seein' as how good she reeplaced
    them poor deer fer pullin' the cart.\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-12 23:14:50'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: If it weren't so entirely inappropriate right now, photos of calligraphy carved
    into Iraqi tombstones would make for a gorgeous coffee-table book. *sigh* maybe
    in fifty years...
  created: '2007-02-12 23:24:34'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: 'Hey Hrant, maybe for your next post you can make fun of the handwriting of
    kids with dyslexia. '
  created: '2007-02-13 00:43:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "James, engraved calligraphy is never gorgeous.\r\n\r\nDan, I make fun of
    mediocrity anywhere. But being dyslexic for example does not necessarily qualify.
    To qualify you need to not care. You certainly don't need to be rich to care.
    Heck, you don't even need arms to care:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/south_asia/3253168.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-13 01:45:31'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Sooner or later, the one of us will be in such a palace. \r\nOffending nobody,
    what do you like the headstone on your palace reads?\r\nWill you mention that
    in your will?\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-13 04:33:31'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "To me this gravemarker only becomes mediocre if it's viewed out of context.
    It's a beautiful piece of folk art to me and there are thousands more out there
    just like it. There would be more except since stone wasn't available to many,
    they were made of wood and are long gone. In this case I think the inscription
    mentioned at the bottom of the page says it all...\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://uncpress.unc.edu/chapters/little_sticks.html\">Sticks
    and Stones</a>"
  created: '2007-02-13 14:16:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That is a terrific link you posted Bluestreak. I hope everyone reads it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-13 14:39:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You want context? Check out the other headstones in that cemetery.\r\n\r\nOh,
    and next time you see Comic Sans used by a secretary to set\r\nthe company financial
    report, just think of it as folk typography.\r\n\r\nI guess \"everybody was a
    designer\" way before computers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-13 14:58:11'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: " Here's a link for anyone else that wants to look at them all:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.rootsweb.com/~scberkel/Cemeteries/Wassamassaw.html\">http://www.rootsweb.com/~scberkel/Cemeteries/Wassamassaw.html</a>\r\n\r\nSome
    are now just rotting pieces of wood."
  created: '2007-02-13 16:00:49'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Great links BlueStreak - thanks\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-02-13 16:13:09'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "Laughing at the illiterate is a bit high handed maybe?\r\n\r\nOn the plus
    side, good links BlueStreak."
  created: '2007-02-13 17:18:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Look at the last three, and note what kind of people they were for.\r\nShula's
    headstone makes it look like her family was Village Idiot Central.\r\nA rotting
    piece of wood has much more dignity than that mess immortalized.\r\n\r\nWhat kind
    of literacy are we talking about? I'm talking about the literacy of caring. We,
    collectively here, have a problem with people who think font selection is unimportant.
    Same difference in this case. Just like when you design a good font or logo but
    then see a case of mediocre design (including by large corporations), put yourself
    in the position of the stonecutter who was not hired to do it right.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "have a little heart already. life and death are not all about professionalism.\r\nthere
      is such a thing as charm in the unprofessional arts. enjoy the ride. we don't
      know anything about that family, or under what constraints the grave marker
      was made.\r\ni suspect a poverty so dire that they could not afford a stone
      cutter.\r\n\r\nthe original post was good for a chuckle, but the story behind
      the grave is fascinating."
    created: '2007-02-16 20:40:03'
  created: '2007-02-13 17:51:06'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "I think it's tragically beautiful. And I'm not just adopting the compassionate
    smug git position.\r\n\r\nWe have no idea of the context in which it was made.
    Either someone without ability (and possibly of low intellect) did the best they
    could in what was probably difficult circumstances, or maybe Hrant is right and
    whoever engraved it didn't care, which suggests an even sadder story.\r\n\r\nEither
    way, I think it's equally unworthy of designer criticism.\r\n\r\nIf you think
    this memorial lacks dignity, just beacause it is relatively cheap and not expertly
    engraved, then that is your failing.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-15 15:36:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You have some good points, but I do need to repeat: it's not about expertise,
    it's about caring. They seem to have cared about the deceased, but seem not to
    have cared about what we here on Typophile (as opposed to Folkpoetryphile) make
    it our serious business to care about.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-15 17:01:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My take on it is that the family had no money but still plenty of love and
    did as best they could with the means available to them.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-15 17:02:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Using the money for the stone to pay a woodcarver instead would have been
    much better. If you can't do it well, know that, and at least don't immortalize
    your deficiency. Have the humility to fade into the [back]ground with dignity.
    This way many generations will look at that headstone and feel -even more- sorry
    for Shula.\r\n\r\nMaybe the father was arrogant, or dirt cheap, or had a family
    feud with the town stonecutter? As Jon hints, we can't know enough to be sure
    - but of course that can't and shouldn't prevent people from thinking and opining.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-15 17:09:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wait, that doesn't look like stone, it looks like cement! Maybe the father
    was a cement guy? So I'm guessing they poored the cement into the typical wood
    frame on the ground, then figured to just use a branch or something while it was
    still wet. I'm certainly a fan of heartfelt spontaneity, but: Had they never seen
    a headstone before? And when they were finished, didn't they realize it was too
    cruddy? They could have made a second, better one - or even just resurfaced it
    with a bit more cement and tried again. I think it's pretty safe to say they didn't
    care.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-15 17:20:36'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Look, I agree with Hrant completely. Craftsmanship is important; it can say
    a lot.
  created: '2007-02-15 17:34:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thinking about this thread, I have a feeling that the resistance to what
    I'm saying might be in large part a knee-jerk reaction based on the \"death complex\":
    the fear of our own death causes us to avoid -and even combat- any criticism of
    expressions of mourning. In this respect I think much can be learned from Mexican
    and Hindu cultures.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-15 17:35:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "To a naive person, crafsmanship may have a different meaning. People of little
    means have always felt the only option was to use their own hands--that the sweat
    and toil of their own hands had more to say than the perfection of craft by someone
    else's. I think of it as well like the crude, hard to read, crayoned, get well
    wishes from my kids several years ago when I was getting heart bypass surgurey.
    Their own hands may have been poor at the lettering craft, but the meaning was
    far more powerful than any of Zapf's finest work.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-15 17:46:39'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I agree that craft is important.\r\n\r\nBUT...\r\n\r\nIf my niece makes a
    card for me and it has errors or backwards letters I don't ask her to make a new
    card.\r\n\r\nUnless we know the entire history it isn't up to us to judge this.
    \r\n\r\nYes, ok, we get it. \r\n\r\nI still think it is nicer to see the positive
    and view this tombstone as a family of people who couldn't afford any better but
    still cared enough to make a tombstone which shares there sentiments with others
    to view. "
  created: '2007-02-15 17:49:11'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "... and another thing. If I couldn't afford to make a tombstone and had to
    do it by hand and was not a craftsman after this thread I'd hesitate sharing my
    sentiments with others because they'd be harshly judged.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-15 17:51:31'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "><em>Is that C for craftsman? ;)</em>\r\n\r\nNo."
  created: '2007-02-15 18:09:54'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "Thanks to Hrant for giving us something to think about and talk about. \r\n\r\nWormwood
    said,\r\n\"We have no idea of the context in which it was made.\"\r\n\r\nYes we
    do know some context. Just based on the picture Hrant posted we know it marks
    a grave from 1905. I extrapolated more context from the link that contained the
    picture. It is a grave at the Wassamssaw Baptist Church in Berkeley County, South
    Carolina. The closest stonecutters at that time were a hundred miles away in Charleston
    \u2014 cars, expressways and freight forwarding weren't around at that time BTW.
    The stone is more than likely limestone, the cheapest stone available and it's
    very soft. There is plenty more context that I gathered.\r\n\r\nI think Miss Tiffany
    and dezcom get it right. When my time comes I couldn't care less. Gravemarkers
    are for the living, not the dead. But my living thoughts are that I would prefer
    mine be made by someone without skills that cares rather than a hired hand. The
    key that Shula's marker was made by someone that cared is the poem.\r\n\r\nHrant,
    just saying that they could've sold some deer carcasses to cover the expense is
    being flippant. I am, nevertheless, glad you're giving your honest thoughts."
  created: '2007-02-15 18:49:39'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I've written the specifications of my grave marker, and yes, it is a \"designer's\"
    piece. My family approves, and think it is surprisingly tasteful. I told them,
    I'd rather show my good side, if I have to pick one for forever. Should I care?
    Who cares?\r\n\r\nShould I outlive Hrant, I'll try to remember to critique his
    marker, and I think I am not being a jerk when I say it better be damn good, reflecting
    the layers of context he strives for in his work."
  created: '2007-02-15 20:22:29'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Said:\r\n1. No one cares how much you know until they know how much you care.\r\n2.
    Change the way you look at things and things you look at change."
  created: '2007-02-15 20:39:37'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "My reaction wasn't a knee-jerk resistance to the \"death complex\". I'm as
    fond of Shiva as the next hombre.\r\n\r\nI should have said 'We have no idea of
    the <em><strong>human</em></strong> context in which it was made.'\r\n\r\nLike
    BlueStreak, I've now managed to extrapolate a lot more from the picture...\r\n\r\nShula's
    parents had already died from the same plague that finished her off. Only her
    8 year old twin brothers remained, who were now homeless as the family shack had
    been reposessed by a merciless landlord. Winter came early in 1905 and it was
    amidst a bitter snow storm on the edge of the cemetary that the two crippled and
    pox ridden boys, Walta and Hecta, struggled to fulfill their dead mother's wishes
    by creating a lasting memorial to her beloved daughter. If they lifted even a
    stick from the ground the sheriff would shoot them for stealing firewood, so Walta
    made do and used the rotten stumps of Hecta's diseased fingers to scratch the
    words into the freezing cement. Or maybe not.\r\n\r\nCraftsmanship can say a lot,
    but mainly only about the craftsman. Hrant's probably right. If it walks like
    sh\xA1te and talks like sh\xA1te then...\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-15 22:12:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Since I agree that \"gravemarkers are for the living\", should we not leave
    the task to our survivors? Designing one's own seems problematic in so many ways.\r\n\r\nJon,
    your story is nicely lyrical, and not entirely unbelievable.\r\n(And I'll have
    to remember that opening-exclamation trick!)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-15 22:34:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>If it walks like sh\xA1te and talks like sh\xA1te then\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    some of us are coprophages:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/31458\r\n\r\nOr maybe
    they don't really like that stuff, they just want to use it for educational purposes
    :-)"
  created: '2007-02-15 23:20:54'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "Hrant said...\r\n\"should we not leave the task to our survivors?\"\r\n\r\nThe
    adage says that if you want something done right..."
  created: '2007-02-15 23:47:31'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: Agree with whom? I only agree insofar as I am living and I care. And my family
    will presumably be living, and they cared, so they contracted the task to me,
    being the design guy. While I am skeptical that I will care after it is relevant,
    it is more comforting to think that my epitaph will be a mirror of some aspect
    of my life, than anything like either of the stones in that picture. What are
    the many problematic ways?
  created: '2007-02-15 23:48:23'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: '!Jon, are you stealing my opening exclamation? Don''t make me go invent more
    marks...'
  created: '2007-02-15 23:52:11'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Personally I would like sky burial but the Death Machine is not going to
    allow it so I'll leave it up to those who survive me\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-02-16 00:51:59'
- author:
    name: heroist
    picture: 112225
  body: Good lord, has anyone walked through a cemetery lately? I'd certainly rest
    much more peacefully knowing that something this modest and sincere was planted
    above me rather than most of schlock that's etched in stone these days. The meaning
    and memorial is in the words, not the shape of the letters.
  created: '2007-02-16 02:24:43'
- author:
    name: dsb
    picture: 111042
  body: "I think that if all gravestone typography looked like that, \r\nit would
    be terrible.\r\nBut since only that one looks like that,\r\nisn't it ingenious?\r\n\r\nmade
    beautiful by the fact that it is also sincere.\r\n\r\nBut I still think hrant's
    original joke was funny.\r\n "
  created: '2007-02-16 05:01:44'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">The meaning and memorial is in the words, not the shape of the letters.\r\n\r\nGosh,
    I guess I'm just silly, because I feel the total opposite :(\r\nI really couldn't
    care what my memorial says. And if I ever commission any, their text with be sparse.
    No need to spill so many words, I think. The most important element of a marker,
    in my opinion, is the dash! You, know \"1925\u20131993.\" The year of birth and
    death really don't mean all that much compared with the dash\u2026 the dash is
    someone's entire life, boiled down into just one little mark!"
  created: '2007-02-16 05:20:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This here's Typophile. It's all about the shapes of the letters (or actually,\r\nthe
    notan of text). The content is not unimportant, but beside the point.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-16 06:43:49'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "Hrant has pointed out that male deer are called harts. I had no idea and
    retract my comment about his deer carcass comment.\r\n\r\nWhen I looked at all
    of the other stones in that cemetary, I guessed that some were replacements. This
    morning I wondered if Shula's should be replaced with one using better cut letterforms.
    And I truly don't know. Would Shula and her family be pleased or pissed if this
    stone was replaced?"
  created: '2007-02-16 16:56:28'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> The meaning and memorial is in the words, not the shape of the letters.\r\nHeroist,
    what about the shape of the grave? Pyramids for example?\r\n\r\n> Personally I
    would like sky burial ....\r\nPaul Cutler,  Up the mountain like the Men of the
    Cave?"
  created: '2007-02-16 19:11:16'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Aziz - Indeed upon the mountain - to become birds\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-02-16 19:30:18'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: I wonder if someone at <a href="http://www.theonion.com/content/from_print/wrong_font_chosen_for"><cite>The
    Onion</cite></a> has been reading Typophile.
  created: '2007-02-25 15:02:35'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: I suspect so.
  created: '2007-02-25 15:48:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Gotta love it!\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-25 15:54:11'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Now all that's left is for someone to make a font called 'Shula Law'. With
    contextual altrenates please. I do kinda like that 9 in a way....
  created: '2007-02-25 16:38:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, The Onion always has had good taste.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-25 16:48:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I always found the Onion appealing as well :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-25 18:59:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, your latest brings to mind Adlai Stevenson's comparison of the views
    of Rev. Norman Vincent Peale, author of 'The Power of Positive Thinking', and
    St. Paul: \r\n\r\n\"I find Paul appealing and Peale appalling.\""
  created: '2007-02-25 19:25:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I always like Stevenson--\"All the Way with Adalei\" It was much better than
    \"I like Ike\" :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-26 00:40:12'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "How about the extremely clever:\r\nAu H2O\r\n\r\nDidn't get him very far
    though\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-02-26 01:02:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Perhaps Goldwater would have changed his name for that one :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-26 03:14:50'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I'm from Arizona and believe me it was everywhere.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-02-26 03:37:20'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\n<cite>Thinking about this thread, I have a feeling that the resistance
    to what I'm saying might be in large part a knee-jerk reaction based on the \"death
    complex\": the fear of our own death causes us to avoid -and even combat- any
    criticism of expressions of mourning. In this respect I think much can be learned
    from Mexican and Hindu cultures.</cite>\r\n\r\nAlthough I do have to admit that
    the engraving on the tombstone in question is not well done, I'm afraid I do have
    to go with the naysayers on this one.\r\n\r\nThe proper attitude to take, when
    there is mourning, is to mourn with those who mourn. To empathize with their suffering.
    Compassion, not squeamishness or fear of death, is what I think is the motivator."
  created: '2011-10-26 00:54:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I harbor greater compassion for the death\r\nof competence than that of any
    individual.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-26 01:39:06'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: I love how Typophile conversation stretch out over years and years and years...
  created: '2011-10-26 01:56:52'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: I think the headstone is perfect in its imperfection. I like to believe it
    was carved by a family member.
  created: '2011-10-26 15:33:10'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: '[Edit]'
  created: '2012-07-28 15:29:21'
date: '2007-02-12 00:34:41'
node_type: forum
title: 'Obituary: Town''s Sole Stonecutter, Apparently'

---
