---
author:
  name: nicholasgross
  picture: 111028
body: "G'day\r\n\r\nI'm a little bit worried, we have a deadline to get this book
  finished this week but indesign has just started crashing everytime I attempt to
  mve from the current page. It also does it on other copies of indesign on other
  computers so it must be the file itself. I have kept the display performance at
  typical, I have thrown out all styles copied over from word, I have trashed the
  preferences file. Does anybody know anything else to try, kind of desperate. \r\n\r\nI
  work by copying text out of word and pasting it into pages, I select all the italics
  and change it to an italic style and then I force the body text style over the top.
  Up until now, I've had no problems with this method.\r\ncheers\r\n\r\nNick"
comments:
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: I also just preflighted it and there doesn't seem to be any problems there...
  created: '2007-02-13 01:43:04'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: I think I've located the problem to a section of pages. Every time indesign
    is pointed to those pages via the pages palette, the scroll-bar, the page arrows
    or the find/change function, it shuts up shop
  created: '2007-02-13 01:50:16'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "First quick fix. Select all text (chapter by chapter) and paste in a new
    InDesign document.\r\n\r\nIf you have Quark too...paste an additional copy in
    Quark.\r\n\r\nThis probably isn't telling you anything new...but give it a try."
  created: '2007-02-13 01:59:09'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: also...create a white box (exact same size) and send it to back in your master
    page...this'll allow you to keep all of your graphic elements on the page. Tedious...but
    its good to have a back-up.
  created: '2007-02-13 02:01:14'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Thanks Biddy,\r\n\r\nI've deleted the offending pages through the pages palette
    and things seem to be OK now. If it happens again when I try to paste in the text
    I'll try that method, seems a good idea because you select via chapter and don't
    need to nav to individual pages. Nice idea.\r\n\r\nJust out of interest does my
    workflow nethod seem flawed or like I'm asking for trouble? I'm interested to
    know how people preserve italics from word to indesign while still using para
    styles\r\nthanks for the help\r\n\r\n--N"
  created: '2007-02-13 02:05:31'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Word and InDesign have settings in their preferences that allow you to "keep
    text formatting" or something to that effect. Problem you'll run into, is that
    Word makes fake italics.
  created: '2007-02-13 02:19:17'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "That's true, although indesign will often allow you to search even for false
    [italic]s using TNR anyway and change it to a character style\r\n--N"
  created: '2007-02-13 02:23:04'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>I work by copying text out of word and pasting it into pages....</em>\r\n\r\nGiven
    a choice between c&p or Place, I'd pick Place if using Word.  That being said,
    I'd convert the Word doc into a txt file and place that -- there's just too many
    strange things (macros, etc.) that can happen with Word documents -- and format
    from there.\r\n\r\nI'm assuming you've got this thing set up as a book?  The long-way
    round would be to export the text as .txt in the offending chapter, and build
    a new one from the ground up, then replace the chapter.  Sometimes you need to
    start from scratch\\....\r\n\r\nGood luck!"
  created: '2007-02-13 02:47:52'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Thanks Linda,\r\n\r\nmy editor swears by Word 5.1 and thinks that every newer
    version has nowhere near the stability or reliability of this. She might be right,
    I don't trust it much either and previously I was 'cleaning text' by doing that
    but i guess I got lazy\r\ncheers\r\n\r\n--N\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-13 02:51:43'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Eeeeewwwww!  The last time I used 5.1 seriously was probably eight years
    ago, but I agree with her about the stability, at least when you're working within
    it.  ;-)  Cut and paste into ID (particularly CS) gets seriously problematic though....\r\n\r\n(She
    may swear by Word, I swear at it.)"
  created: '2007-02-13 02:59:28'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "When I run into problems with a file the first thing I do is \"save as\"
    before I start monkeying with it. You probably did that too.\r\n\r\nI was gonna
    say what Linda said - I find it better to \"place\" the Word doc than to copy
    and paste, at least that is how I think the program is designed to work.\r\n\r\nI
    don't understand Macros - sometimes when I open a word file I get the alert asking
    me if I want to enable or disable Macros. I always disable them.\r\n\r\nI also
    find sometimes I need to save .rtf word files as .doc - otherwise there can be
    strange artifacts and formatting in there. "
  created: '2007-02-13 03:26:59'
- author:
    name: Raphael Daudelin
  body: "It did happen to me a couple of time that an InDesign document got corrupted.
    Since I'm working on a lot of books, and that it involves lots of work on a long
    amount of time, the best way to reduce the damage is to create a new document
    each day with the date include in the name (book-A_021207.indd). If your document
    gets corrupted, you can get the document of the previous day, at least, you only
    loose one day work.\r\n\r\nI do also think that it's better to place the text
    from word and then work with find/change, to be sure there is no fake italics
    in your document."
  created: '2007-02-13 06:52:24'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Thanks very much all\r\n\r\n--> I managed to sort the problem out by deleting
    the diseased pages, no further trouble, let's hope it stays that way. Hey Patty,
    doesn't .doc have the same problems as .rtf? in my muddled mind I thought .doc
    was a native word file format... I tried exporting simple text from a text-edit
    program but (of course I guess) I didn't get my italics. So now I'm going word>textedit>rtf>indesign
    I'm hoping that .rtf will get rid of some of the invisible gremlins,\r\ncheers\r\n\r\nNick\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-13 12:04:18'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Just to let you know - when this happens on my MAC - I go to the preference
    folder - and throw out the preferences. Word is good for another year - Quark
    goes back to work, etc. etc. etc.\r\n\r\nJust an FYI as a future thing to do first
    -- "
  created: '2007-02-13 13:39:51'
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "Thanks JAckie, I actually mentioned doing that in my first post ;)\r\ncheers\r\n\r\n--N"
  created: '2007-02-13 13:47:43'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Didn't see it there - I'm getting old and tired.\r\nGlad you found a solution
    -\r\n\r\nI'm about to upgrade from 10.3.9 to 10.4 something or other - and I'm
    terrified... I keep putting it off. I know what gremlins lurk in my system now
    - I don't think I'm ready for a new batch.\r\n\r\nBTW - when Word crashed on me
    the other day, I had to throw out preferences twice and a few other files in the
    MS Word Preference folder - and well, what can I say, it's been behaving again..."
  created: '2007-02-13 13:55:14'
- author:
    name: BradB
    picture: 111285
  body: "<em>I\u2019m about to upgrade from 10.3.9 to 10.4 something or other - and
    I\u2019m terrified\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nI'd wait till <a href=\"http://www.apple.com/macosx/leopard/\">10.5</a>
    at this point."
  created: '2007-02-13 15:03:49'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: 'If 10.3.9 is working fine for you, then I agree with Brad -- hang in until
    10.5 is released.  I made the leap from 9.2 to 10.4 and spent months straightening
    things out: I''m quite happy with how it''s working now, but given my hardware
    limitations, that will probably be it for me without a new box.'
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "slightly off the original topic, perhaps a new thread.\r\n\r\nre: Mac OSX
      10.3.9 upgrading to 10.4.? and beyond...  \r\ni've found 10.3.9 to be stable
      and trouble free, but reverse incompatible with various subsequent periferal
      software upgrades (motivating me to frequently curse forced upgrades).\r\n\r\nbut
      i have a removable BOOTABLE firewire drive with 10.3.9 installed.  Whenever
      i run into a 10.4.? related hiccup (getting less frequent, thankfully) i can
      restart from the 10.3.9 firewire and either revert the document or troubleshoot
      the problem. you can easily make any secondary drive (or partition) bootable
      with a neat little software package called SuperDuper from shirt-pocket. It
      also performs (optional) scheduled back-ups.\r\ni highly recommend it.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.shirt-pocket.com/SuperDuper/SuperDuperDescription.html"
    created: '2007-02-13 16:44:31'
  created: '2007-02-13 16:02:08'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: As Patty mentioned, it is a very healthy habit to use "save as..." at least
    occasionally as you work on files. "Save" simply saves the information in the
    order you've been using it in. Whereas "Save as" reorders the information. I liken
    it to defragmenting a hard drive. This is why "save" can corrupt a file. (Although
    I'm hardly technical so someone else could clarify.)
  created: '2007-02-13 17:20:48'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: 'That''s actually a pretty good comparison, Tiff: a lot of junk can accumulate
    in files, making them bigger and more subject to "issues."  A clean "Save as"
    not only gets rid of a lot of junk, it will, when you preflight and send it off,
    save your printer from running into problems too....'
  created: '2007-02-13 17:45:04'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "In class my analogy for \"Save As\" is the blackboard: as you write on it
    during class you're constantly erasing and applying fresh chalk, and by the end
    of the class the board is covered in multiple layers of half-erased chalk dust,
    with bits and pieces of earlier notes still partially visible. When you hit \"Save\"
    you're saving all of that chalk. \"Save As\" is like doing a thorough cleaning
    of the boards and then writing only the final set of  notes onto a clean background.\r\n\r\nAs
    for the transfer from Word to InDesign, like Nicholas I tend to simply \"Select
    All\" and copy the content from the Word manuscript and paste the entire thing
    into the first text frame of my InDesign file, then create new P & C styles and
    work through the book from start to finish to apply the sytles. Occasionally the
    styles don't take and I have to manually apply/strip certain attributes, but this
    allows me to keep the manuscript's formating (italics, etc.) even though I'm changing
    fonts & sizes, etc. This is the way I've always brought Word docs into InDesign
    and I've never had a problem.\r\n\r\nThat said, I work on a PC, so I don't have
    the frustrating OS problems that Mac users are always pretending they don't have."
  created: '2007-02-13 18:39:22'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Another HUGE piece of advice is to break down your book into chapters or
    at least manageable chunks. That way if there's a bit of text or an image that's
    corrupt you don't lose the whole file. Quark files in particular can get really
    huge if you're using high res scans. I rarely if ever make one file for a whole
    book.\r\n\r\nJason - I was having the same problem with the styles not \"taking\"
    but if you hold down shift+command (on a mac) when you apply the style, it overrides
    whatever else is in there. Also, select all and hit \"No Paragraph Style\" before
    you start.\r\n\r\nBut here's a question, if you apply the character styles FIRST
    then you don't have the override problem when you apply the paragraph style? That's
    helpful to know."
  created: '2007-02-13 18:42:57'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>That said, I work on a PC, so I don\u2019t have the frustrating OS problems
    that Mac users are always pretending they don\u2019t have.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, I've
    worked with CS and CS2 on Win2000 and XP and had problems with importing Word
    files with those as well: no application or OS is perfect."
  created: '2007-02-13 18:48:48'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "My issue with using the \"Clear Overrides\" is that this will, indeed, strip
    out original document's italic formating, etc. Occassionally I'll apply my \"body
    - indent\" style and for whatever reason the font doesn't take, or the size, so
    I quickly highlight that paragraph and manually set the font or size or whatever
    it is that didn't take. This normally fixes the bug. I only use \"Clear Overrides\"
    as a last resort.\r\n\r\nFor a while I played with setting up my styles first
    using placeholder text, then clear the document of content and bring in the Word
    copy, using InDesign's replace-Word-styles-with-InDesign-styles dialogue, but
    this never seemed to transfer smoothly, so I've gone back to bringing in the Word
    file and manually applying the InDesign styles I've created. Then I trash all
    of the Word styles and continue to tweak the content both through my style definitions
    and manually, where necessary. These are often 400 page books with more than a
    dozen master pages and dozens of graphics and I've yet to have a major issue.\r\n\r\nAll
    of this, of course, depends on how well copy-edited the manuscript is. I have
    one client who sends me the most meticulously formated manuscripts you can imagine,
    with good, clean stylesheets used throughout and the text fully colour-coded (blue
    italics, red acronyms, green parens/brackets, orange URLs, etc.), but the majority
    of the source documents are chaotic disasters. Thus, manually applying my custom
    styles one paragraph at a time is my own method of damage control in that it forces
    me to format the project piece by piece, thus gaining some real connection to
    the content, which is always a good thing."
  created: '2007-02-13 19:07:22'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: It sucks but there is generally no better way to do it than manually. I often
    have the word doc open on my other computer so I can double check I caught all
    the itals etc. I do prefer manual overrides because I don't like those little
    pink text artifacts. It's also cleaner for preflight, I find, leaves less to the
    printer's imagination. Then go back in if necessary and apply the character styles
    one by one. It can be a pain but I'm a perfectionist.
  created: '2007-02-13 19:41:57'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Jason: I feel you on that! I have a client (2 editors) who use Word in differing
    ways. One of them isn't bothered by using the stylesheets and I don't lose his
    formatting when I apply mine in InDesign. However, the other editor has a nasty
    habit (his words) of using Word's stylesheets which really cocks up the works.
    I've not found a perfect work-a-round yet. Even using the custom import feature
    isn't perfect.\r\n\r\nLinda: Oh, well I\"m glad I wasn't too far off the mark.
    ;^)"
  created: '2007-02-13 19:42:17'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I hate when the editor formats the text in word. Quark had an imperfect system
    called Xpress Tags and when it worked it WORKED - the tags formatted themselves.
    But it didn't always work. Two of my clients still tag the text this way. Yes,
    you have to manually remove the tags as you go along, but it is extremely clear
    what you're supposed to do with the text re itals, different levels of heads,
    etc.\r\n\r\nI always eliminate any styling in word before I flow the text into
    either InD or Quark. If I don't have a hard copy to refer to then I save a copy
    with the formatting intact and leave that doc open to refer to (as mentioned above)
    while I work.\r\n\r\nIt used to be that if you converted the italics to underline
    in the word doc for some reason Quark would preserve that, and then you could
    do a find/change in Quark back to italics after you'd applied your paragraph style,
    but Q6 doesn't do that anymore."
  created: '2007-02-13 19:53:34'
- author:
    name: sconnor
    picture: 112243
  body: "We just had a problem like that in the studio. It was a font issue. The new
    intel G5 tower a designer just got couldn't process certain fonts and every time
    she tried to get to the next page of her indd file, it would just up and quit.
    \r\n\r\nBasically, we're going to have to get new fonts-- because this computer
    is having trouble processing a Truetype 1 font.\r\n\r\nwww.susanconnordesign.com"
  created: '2007-02-13 21:33:22'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Truetype or Type 1?\r\n\r\nHow bizarre. I haven't had these sort of problems.
    KNOCK ON WOOD!"
  created: '2007-02-13 21:35:50'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Love going off-topic to topic again - just wanted you to know that 10.4 pack
    is sitting here waiting to be installed. I'll be entitled to the 10.5 when it
    comes out. I'm not in want of getting out of 10.3.9 because I have programs that
    only run on System 9 - like Font Expert. I found out that Fontographer has an
    update - and will only be an additional 99 bucks - but I can start using Quark
    7 as soon as I put 10.4 in.\r\n\r\nAnd just to let you know - I do have a LaCie
    removal with a System folder on it -- and it was great when I was cleaning out
    my internal hard disk - but now I cannot get it to mount. Anyone remember the
    keyboard controls for getting a startup from an external drive? I'm drawing a
    blank, and too busy (lazy) to look it up.\r\n\r\nand sconner - what is a Truetrype
    1 font? I seem to be able to use all kinds - but if you have followed some of
    the writings here, you'll find that my printer prefers me to send only Type 1
    fonts with the job... His equipment doesn't care for TTF fonts - at all. And since
    I like my jobs printed the way I designed them - I oblige..."
  created: '2007-02-14 00:05:17'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Hold the "option" key down.
  created: '2007-02-14 00:10:45'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Thank you - that may bring me one step closer to the switch over...\r\n\r\nFunny,
    I remember everyone on System 6 -- and I was the lone brave soul to go into System
    7. Had to change all my programs for that too."
  created: '2007-02-14 00:29:50'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Jackie, I remember going through that as well -- it felt like the great leap
    into the unknown....  ;-)
  created: '2007-02-14 00:32:20'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: You're welcome. :^)
  created: '2007-02-14 00:34:51'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>\u201CSave\u201D simply saves the information in the order you\u2019ve
    been using it in. Whereas \u201CSave as\u201D reorders the information. I liken
    it to defragmenting a hard drive.</em>\r\n\r\nI am joining in late, as usual...
    Tiffany, Patty, Jason: all good analogies. I was taught that \"Save as\" rebuilds
    the file from scratch, and that is why it gets rid of all the accumulated junk.\r\n\r\nAs
    for Word 5.1, when the bloated version 6.0 first came out I avoided it and stuck
    with 5.1 for a good long while... :-D"
  created: '2007-02-14 05:46:02'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>All of this, of course, depends on how well copy-edited the manuscript
    is. </em>\r\n\r\nWell, that certainly helps a lot.  But I've had great copy editors
    screw up the e-file, and vice versa.\r\n\r\nBesides, producing something useful
    for the printer and the audience overwhelmingly depends on the bundle of skin,
    bones, and brain cells in the chair.\r\n\r\nGreat design has always been done
    by great designers: that the \"tools\" have changed over the years has made the
    job faster and more convenient, but that's about it.\r\n\r\nThese days, it doesn't
    really matter which OS or application \"the designer\" works on, so long as s/he
    knows what is going on and produces the appropriate product: to insist that A
    is \"better\" than \"B\" is a fool's game.\r\n\r\nIf you \r\n\r\n(a) aren't connected
    to a network,\r\n\r\n(b) practice safe hex, \r\n\r\n(c) implement editorial best
    practices,\r\n\r\n(d) send files to a reputable printing shop, and\r\n\r\n(e)
    are a professional, \r\n\r\nthen there's a good chance you will have very few
    problems.\r\n\r\nIf you don't, then you can find yourself bashing your head into
    a brick wall, but it won't matter what OS you're using.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-14 06:01:58'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Haven't seen this tip (I think...):\r\n\r\nCorrupt InDesign files can be
    repaired / rescued by exporting as InDesign Interchange file (Found under File:Export...).\r\nOpening
    an indx-file will rebuild the document.\r\n\r\nWhat Patty said about doing a regular
    Save As... is sound policy. Note that InD is in the habit of keeping a lot of
    previous states of a document in it's file. Save As will flush out all that, but
    beware that you loose the ability to Command-Z back to a previous state."
  children:
  - author:
      name: ybaggar
    body: "Corrupt InDesign files can be repaired / rescued by exporting as InDesign
      Interchange file (Found under File:Export\u2026).\r\n----------------------------------------------------\r\n\r\nthanks!
      i think you just saved my life :)"
    created: '2007-04-15 03:12:57'
  created: '2007-02-14 12:56:45'
- author:
    name: plainclothes
    picture: 110490
  body: "just to second (third, fourth ...) the statements above:\r\n\r\n- regularly
    do a Save As (I do this every time I'm ready to close out the doc)\r\n\r\n- inx
    format solves all kinds of trouble, but if you're using CS, be sure to get the
    latest update before relying on it (some minor, but necessary patches in version
    3.0.1 (838))\r\n\r\n- always place Word docs rather than C&P to avoid problems
    (this is not a Mac-centric problem)\r\n\r\nI've heard people say it's best to
    save as RTF out of Word, but this gives me more problems than the native format.
    one catch (at least in the past) is that you have to disable \"fast save\" in
    Word for a clean import. with a little scripting, I can usually get very long
    texts into InD with perfectly intact styles. Word is not an elegant machine, but
    InD has done a pretty good job of bending it to it's will."
  created: '2007-02-14 22:15:51'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "Here's a painful memory from the old days: did any of you Quarkies ever get
    the message <em>This document was built with another system's fonts. It will be
    rebuilt with this system's fonts.</em>??\r\n\r\nIn 1993 I did a very complicated
    scholarly book, 256 pages, 8.5 x 11 with text in 2 cols, with huge numbers of
    illustrations and detailed notes at the end of each chapter. As mentioned above
    by someone I saved it in chapter chunks rather than in one large file (thank goodness!).
    I was probably using XPress 3.32, can't remember now. Anyhow, I started this job
    on my Mac IIcx and it never left my machine. Ever. In general I adored this project:
    great editors, great content, nice design, just fun all around. So most of the
    time I cruised along, thoroughly enjoying myself.\r\n\r\nBut then, after toiling
    away to get the textual reference to a picture to be on the same spread as the
    picture, or to accomplish any number of things that we all like to do with fine
    typesetting, sometimes going back 3 or 4 or 5 pages to gain or lose a line, out
    of the blue I'd get this sudden message. It was as bad as getting \"the bomb.\"
    It drove me crazy because there was no pattern to it. Despite hours of consultation,
    Apple and Quark were never able to find out what was wrong. \r\n\r\nAnd of course
    when you are experimenting with something like these moves, you don't want to
    save the file every 5 minutes because you may not like where you end up! Once
    the dreaded message appeared, all the text for the entire chapter would reflow,
    ruining all my careful tracking moves, soft returns, and so forth. I would either
    revert if I was lucky, or sometimes I'd have to do a \"thumbnail drag\" (for those
    of you not familiar with XPress, think of it as an \"extreme save as\") to generate
    a new file.\r\n\r\nAnyway, just curious if any of you ever ran into this. I was
    astonished, since no other external system was ever involved, and my own computer
    remained constant in terms of what system I was running at that time. "
  created: '2007-02-15 00:26:13'
- author:
    name: filip blazek
    picture: 110363
  body: Yes, I remember that situation, it occured several times in 1995 or 1996.
    The same document, the same computer, the same fonts. One day the text reflows
    and I had to rebuild the document again. Luckily, I don't use XPress from 2001.
  created: '2007-02-15 09:10:50'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "This may not help, but we save Word documents in RTF format. We have a set
    of routines that we run on the RTF files that change the RTF formatting strings
    into InDesign tags -- we call such files .ITT (InDesign Tagged Text). These are
    then imported into InDesign. All this on a PC, but it should work for a Mac.\r\n\r\nThe
    hard (well, laborious) part is writing the initial conversion program going from
    .RTF to \".ITT\" -- but once that is done, you're in business. BTW, don't try
    importing an RFT file -- InDesign will mess up some of the characters.\r\n\r\nFWIW"
  created: '2007-04-15 03:47:11'
date: '2007-02-13 01:38:57'
title: indesign crashing on nearly finished book with publishing deadline this week
  help please!

---
