---
author:
  name: Robby Woodard
  picture: 110532
body: "I am building an OpenType font and right now I am using the \"Adobe OT PS Standard
  Names (CFF)\" ecoding table...\r\n\r\nMost of the glyphs make sense to me... but
  I am not sure what a \"colonmonetary\" or \"onefitted\" glyp should look like.\r\n\r\nAlso,
  is the glyph for \"Rupiah\" a cap R and lower case p? Or is there something more
  sophisticated?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Robby Woodard
    picture: 110532
  body: "And what are the superior a through t for?\r\n\r\nR\\V"
  created: '2007-02-13 17:36:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's not absolutely essential to know what the glyphs are for, just check
    out what they look like in some standard OT fonts. Adobe bundles such with CS,
    and Gentium is another good reference (it's free, too).\r\n\r\nIf you must know:\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/features_ae.htm"
  created: '2007-02-13 19:51:52'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "The colonmonetary is the \"colon\" currency symbol, which looks like a C
    with two diagonal bars through it. Because it's a currency symbol, it's commonly
    designed on tabular widths (that is, the same as your tabular figures).\r\n\r\nThe
    onefitted is the proportional version of the numeral one.\r\n\r\nBut as Nick says,
    you can learn a lot just by looking at the glyphs in an existing font.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-14 07:23:18'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Robby, \r\n\r\nplease don't use the glyph names from the \"Adobe OT PS Standard
    Names (CFF)\" encoding. Weird as it may seem, they're not compatible with Adobe's
    current recommendations for glyph naming. This encoding lists names that are internally
    represented by numbers rather than names in a CFF table. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-21 08:32:38'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Adam,\r\n\r\nThat's not quite right. The correct thing to say is, do not
    use the \u201CAdobe OT PS Standard Names (CFF)\u201D encoding. This is because
    it is safe to use glyph names from that encoding, <strong>as long as</strong>
    they're also present in the <em>Adobe Glyph List For New Fonts</em> http://partners.adobe.com/public/developer/en/opentype/aglfn13.txt\r\n\r\nThis
    means that, only the glyph names listed below should NOT be used.\r\n\r\n<em>Note:</em>
    <strong>fi</strong> and <strong>fl</strong> are between parentheses because Mac
    OS X (as of 10.4.8) still relies in glyph names (instead of the 'cmap' table).
    This means that if the font doesn't contain these two glyph names, the OS will
    perform font-flaback on the characters U+FB01 and U+FB02.\r\n\r\n(109\tfi)\r\n(110\tfl)\r\n150\tonesuperior\r\n164\ttwosuperior\r\n169\tthreesuperior\r\n229\texclamsmall\r\n230\tHungarumlautsmall\r\n231\tdollaroldstyle\r\n232\tdollarsuperior\r\n233\tampersandsmall\r\n234\tAcutesmall\r\n235\tparenleftsuperior\r\n236\tparenrightsuperior\r\n239\tzerooldstyle\r\n240\toneoldstyle\r\n241\ttwooldstyle\r\n242\tthreeoldstyle\r\n243\tfouroldstyle\r\n244\tfiveoldstyle\r\n245\tsixoldstyle\r\n246\tsevenoldstyle\r\n247\teightoldstyle\r\n248\tnineoldstyle\r\n249\tcommasuperior\r\n250\tthreequartersemdash\r\n251\tperiodsuperior\r\n252\tquestionsmall\r\n253\tasuperior\r\n254\tbsuperior\r\n255\tcentsuperior\r\n256\tdsuperior\r\n257\tesuperior\r\n258\tisuperior\r\n259\tlsuperior\r\n260\tmsuperior\r\n261\tnsuperior\r\n262\tosuperior\r\n263\trsuperior\r\n264\tssuperior\r\n265\ttsuperior\r\n266\tff\r\n267\tffi\r\n268\tffl\r\n269\tparenleftinferior\r\n270\tparenrightinferior\r\n271\tCircumflexsmall\r\n272\thyphensuperior\r\n273\tGravesmall\r\n274\tAsmall\r\n275\tBsmall\r\n276\tCsmall\r\n277\tDsmall\r\n278\tEsmall\r\n279\tFsmall\r\n280\tGsmall\r\n281\tHsmall\r\n282\tIsmall\r\n283\tJsmall\r\n284\tKsmall\r\n285\tLsmall\r\n286\tMsmall\r\n287\tNsmall\r\n288\tOsmall\r\n289\tPsmall\r\n290\tQsmall\r\n291\tRsmall\r\n292\tSsmall\r\n293\tTsmall\r\n294\tUsmall\r\n295\tVsmall\r\n296\tWsmall\r\n297\tXsmall\r\n298\tYsmall\r\n299\tZsmall\r\n301\tonefitted\r\n302\trupiah\r\n303\tTildesmall\r\n304\texclamdownsmall\r\n305\tcentoldstyle\r\n306\tLslashsmall\r\n307\tScaronsmall\r\n308\tZcaronsmall\r\n309\tDieresissmall\r\n310\tBrevesmall\r\n311\tCaronsmall\r\n312\tDotaccentsmall\r\n313\tMacronsmall\r\n315\thypheninferior\r\n316\tOgoneksmall\r\n317\tRingsmall\r\n318\tCedillasmall\r\n319\tquestiondownsmall\r\n326\tzerosuperior\r\n327\tfoursuperior\r\n328\tfivesuperior\r\n329\tsixsuperior\r\n330\tsevensuperior\r\n331\teightsuperior\r\n332\tninesuperior\r\n333\tzeroinferior\r\n334\toneinferior\r\n335\ttwoinferior\r\n336\tthreeinferior\r\n337\tfourinferior\r\n338\tfiveinferior\r\n339\tsixinferior\r\n340\tseveninferior\r\n341\teightinferior\r\n342\tnineinferior\r\n343\tcentinferior\r\n344\tdollarinferior\r\n345\tperiodinferior\r\n346\tcommainferior\r\n347\tAgravesmall\r\n348\tAacutesmall\r\n349\tAcircumflexsmall\r\n350\tAtildesmall\r\n351\tAdieresissmall\r\n352\tAringsmall\r\n353\tAEsmall\r\n354\tCcedillasmall\r\n355\tEgravesmall\r\n356\tEacutesmall\r\n357\tEcircumflexsmall\r\n358\tEdieresissmall\r\n359\tIgravesmall\r\n360\tIacutesmall\r\n361\tIcircumflexsmall\r\n362\tIdieresissmall\r\n363\tEthsmall\r\n364\tNtildesmall\r\n365\tOgravesmall\r\n366\tOacutesmall\r\n367\tOcircumflexsmall\r\n368\tOtildesmall\r\n369\tOdieresissmall\r\n370\tOEsmall\r\n371\tOslashsmall\r\n372\tUgravesmall\r\n373\tUacutesmall\r\n374\tUcircumflexsmall\r\n375\tUdieresissmall\r\n376\tYacutesmall\r\n377\tThornsmall\r\n378\tYdieresissmall\r\n379\t001.000\r\n380\t001.001\r\n381\t001.002\r\n382\t001.003\r\n383\tBlack\r\n384\tBold\r\n385\tBook\r\n386\tLight\r\n387\tMedium\r\n388\tRegular\r\n389\tRoman\r\n390\tSemibold"
  created: '2007-02-21 10:11:54'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Indeed Miguel, that's what I meant. Not to say that none of your glyphnames
    may appear in the \u201CAdobe OT PS Standard Names (CFF)\u201D encoding, but that
    this encoding as a whole is not a good source for \"good glyph names\". \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-02-21 19:08:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'What do you now recommend naming small caps, old style, superior, and inferior
    numbers?  '
  created: '2007-02-22 00:49:45'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "William, you can find Adobe's recommendations for glyph names on these two
    pages:\r\n\r\n\u2014 <a href=\"http://partners.adobe.com/public/developer/opentype/index_glyph.html\">Unicode
    and Glyph Names</a>\r\n\u2014 <a href=\"http://partners.adobe.com/public/developer/opentype/index_glyph2.html\">Glyph
    Names and Current Implementations</a>\r\n\r\nThe short answer is, read <a href=\"http://partners.adobe.com/public/developer/opentype/index_glyph.html#6\">section
    6</a> of Unicode and Glyph Names page.\r\n\r\nFor small caps*, for example, <strong>a.small</strong>,
    <strong>aacute.sc</strong>, or <strong>agrave.smcp</strong> are all sound names.\r\n\r\n*
    If you care about unique glyph-character correspondence, you'll need to have two
    sets of small cap glyphs: one that matches the lowercase set, and another that
    matches the uppercase set. This means you'll end up with two small cap 'A's, one
    named <strong>a.sc</strong>, and another named <strong>A.sc</strong>. The first
    should be used in the 'smcp' feature, and the second in the 'c2sc' feature, as
    the code below illustrates:\r\n\r\n<code>feature smcp {\r\nsub a by a.sc;\r\n}
    smcp;\r\n\r\nfeature c2sc {\r\nsub A by A.sc;\r\n} c2sc;</code>"
  created: '2007-02-22 02:46:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks, Miguel. Will do. \r\n\r\nJust saw your note about 'unique glyph character
    correspondence'. What difference does this make? "
  created: '2007-02-22 03:11:11'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Let's say that you decide to only have <strong>a.sc</strong>. This means
    that your 'c2sc' feature will look like this:\r\n\r\n<code>feature c2sc {\r\nsub
    A by a.sc;\r\n} c2sc;</code>\r\n\r\nIn environments where character codes (Unicode
    codepoints) need to be reconstructed from glyph names \u2014 like when copying
    text from a PDF, for example \u2014 the text string 'AAA' styled with your 'c2sc'
    feature, will end up being converted to 'aaa', because that's the result of parsing
    '/a.sc/a.sc/a.sc'."
  created: '2007-02-22 03:38:53'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "William, \r\n\r\nas Miguel said, for casing features, you have three choices:
    \r\n\r\n1. Duplicate your small caps glyphs so that there is one set that corresponds
    to lowercase glyphs, with names such as \"a.smcp\", \"agrave.smcp\" (or \"a.small\",
    \"agrave.small\" or \"a.sc\", \"agrave.sc\" but *not* \"asmall\" or \"agravesmall\")
    and one set that corresponds to UPPERCASE glyphs, with names such as \"A.c2sc\",
    \"Agrave.c2sc\" (or \"A.smcp\", \"Agrave.smcp\" or \"A.small\", \"Agrave.small\"
    or \"A.sc\", \"Agrave.sc\" but *not* \"Asmall\" or \"Agravesmall\"). In such case,
    the \"smcp\" feature would replace \"a\" with \"a.smcp\" and the \"c2sc\" feature
    would replace \"A\" with \"A.c2sc\". \r\n\r\n2. Have one set of small caps glyphs
    named as if they were variants of UPPERCASE glyphs, i.e. \"A.smcp\", \"Agrave.smcp\"
    (or \"A.small\", \"Agrave.small\" or \"A.sc\", \"Agrave.sc\" but *not* \"Asmall\"
    or \"Agravesmall\"). In such case, the \"smcp\" would replace lowercase with those
    glyphs, and the \"c2sc\" feature would replace uppercase with those glyphs. \r\n\r\n3.
    Have one set of small caps glyphs named as if they were variants of lowercase
    glyphs, i.e. \"a.smcp\", \"agrave.smcp\" (or \"a.small\", \"agrave.small\" or
    \"a.sc\", \"agrave.sc\" but *not* \"asmall\" or \"agravesmall\"). In such case,
    the \"smcp\" would replace lowercase with those glyphs, and the \"c2sc\" feature
    would replace uppercase with those glyphs. \r\n\r\nAdobe follows variant 1, which
    allows them 100% glyph correspondence. With class kerning and composites, handling
    these duplicate glyphs is pretty easy in the production process. Also, it's easier
    to write OpenType Layout features because your font would have suplicate \"S.c2sc\"
    and \"s.smcp\" (as there is both \"S\" and \"s\" in your font), but you'd only
    need \"germandbls.smcp\" as there is only \"germandbls\" without an uppercase
    variant). \r\n\r\nWith this variant, if my source text reads \"The typeface Constantia
    was designed by John Hudson\" and I style \"Constantia\" and \"John Hudson\" with
    \"all small caps\" (i.e. both \"c2sc\" and \"smcp\" are applied), the document
    goes to PDF and is then retrieved by Acrobat or Google, the text will still read
    \"The typeface Constantia was designed by John Hudson\", so there is no semantic
    loss. \r\n\r\nVariant 2 is also acceptable. If my source text reads \"The typeface
    Constantia was designed by John Hudson\" and I style \"Constantia\" and \"John
    Hudson\" with \"all small caps\", the retrieved text will read \"The typeface
    CONSTANTIA was designed by JOHN HUDSON\". There is some semantic loss but all-uppercase
    text is always orthographically correct. (After all, small caps are just smaller-sized
    lowercase letters)\r\n\r\nVariant 3 is the least preferrable. If my source text
    reads \"The typeface Constantia was designed by John Hudson\" and I style \"Constantia\"
    and \"John Hudson\" with \"all small caps\", the retrieved text will read \"The
    typeface constantia was designed by john hudson\". This semantic loss is unacceptable
    becauase all-lowercase text is not orthographically correct in this case. \r\n\r\nAs
    or the glyphname suffixes, you can use whatever you want: \"a.smcp\", \"a.small\",
    \"a.sc\", \"a.SMALLC\" etc. are all acceptable for the small caps \"a\" glyph.
    \"one.onum\", \"one.osf\", \"one.oldstyle\", \"one.lc\", \"one.o\" are all acceptable
    for the old-style/lowercase figure 1. \r\n\r\nFontlab Ltd. recommends to use glyphname
    suffixes that are tied to OpenType Layout feature tags that the glyphs are used
    in (or primarily used in). So if you follow variant 1 of devising small caps (duplicate
    sets), You can name the glyphs \"A.c2sc\" and \"a.smcp\". Then it's instantly
    obvious that the OpenType Layout feature definition will be\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    c2sc {\r\n  sub A by A.c2sc; \r\n} c2sc; \r\n\r\nfeature smcp {\r\n  sub a by
    a.smcp; \r\n} smcp; </code>\r\n\r\nIf your font has just two sets of figures (lining
    with Unicode codepoints, and oldstyle as variants), You can name the oldstyle
    figures \"one.onum\" so the feature definition would be: \r\n\r\n<code>feature
    onum {\r\n  sub one by one.onum; \r\n} onum; </code>\r\n\r\nIf a glyph is only
    accessed through a combination of features, e.g. if you have four sets of figures
    (tabular lining, tabular oldstyle, proportional lining, proportional oldstyle),
    you can use the names \"one\" (for the tabular lining), \"one.onum_tnum\" (for
    the tabular oldstyle), \"one.lnum_pnum\" (for the proportional lining) and \"one.onum_pnum\"
    (for the proportional oldstyle). In the suffix, you can concatenate the OpenType
    Layout tags using underscore, and the sequence of these layout tags are alphabetical.
    Similarly, if you have a stylistic variant of a small caps \"R\", you can call
    it \"R.c2sc_ss01\". \r\n\r\nIf the same glyph is used in several features independantly
    (e.g. a stylistic variant of \"R\" could be used in \"ss01\" and \"salt\"), you
    can pick the suffix that is most specifically tied to the glyph. \"ss01\" seems
    to be more specific that \"salt\" so you can call the glyph \"R.ss01\". \r\n\r\nWhen
    it comes to ligatures, Fontlab Ltd. currently recommends using suffixes in these
    as well. The standard \"fi\" ligature can be named \"f_i.liga\" while a discretionary
    \"st\" ligature can be named \"s_t.dlig\". This keeps your glyphnames in order
    and allows you to quickly allocate the ones you need. \r\n\r\nFor localized glyph
    variants, Fontlab Ltd. suggests using the OpenType language tag, i.e. the Serbian
    \"b\" glyph would be named \"afii10066.SRB\". \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam Twardoch\r\nFontlab
    Ltd.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-22 12:49:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Once more, thanks to Adam and Miguel for more salient clues in the OpenType
    feature mystery:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-22 13:37:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks, Adam, much appreciated. '
  created: '2007-02-22 15:56:07'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>For localized glyph variants, Fontlab Ltd. suggests using the OpenType
    language tag, i.e. the Serbian \u201Cb\u201D glyph would be named \u201Cafii10066.SRB\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nJust
    a small note to say, although 'afii10066' is a perfectly legal glyph name, Adobe
    is moving away from afiiXXXXX glyph names, in favour of uniXXXX (or uXXXX*) names.
    So in the case above 'afii10066.SRB' can be replaced by 'uni0431.SRB' or 'u0431.SRB'.\r\n\r\n*Currently,
    Mac OS X (10.4.8) relies on glyph names and doesn't support this form."
  created: '2007-02-23 00:53:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>2. Have one set of small caps glyphs named as if they were variants of
    UPPERCASE glyphs</em>\r\n\r\nSurely this is the only option that should be offered,
    because it maintains <em> typographic</em> correspondence, i.e. the emphasis of
    the original document -- in the same way that bold and italic are retained in
    \"reconstruction\".\r\n\r\n<em>\u201Cone.onum_tnum\u201D </em>\r\n\r\nThis \"_tnum\"
    seems to be an oxymoron, as the four basic figure groups are presently understood
    to be:\r\n\r\nonum = oldstyle + proportional\r\ntnum = oldstyle + tabular\r\nlnum
    = lining + tabular\r\npnum = lining + proportional\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-23 05:34:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "What about superior/inferior figures?\r\n\r\nPresently FontLab names these,
    eg \"onesuperior\". Should they now be renamed eg \"one.superior\"?"
  created: '2007-02-23 05:54:28'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Yes, and make sure they get the right Unicode.\r\n\r\nU+2070\tzero.superior\r\nU+00B9\tone.superior\r\nU+00B2\ttwo.superior\r\nU+00B3\tthree.superior\r\nU+2074\tfour.superior\r\nU+2075\tfive.superior\r\nU+2076\tsix.superior\r\nU+2077\tseven.superior\r\nU+2078\teight.superior\r\nU+2079\tnine.superior\r\n\t\r\nU+2080\tzero.inferior\r\nU+2081\tone.inferior\r\nU+2082\ttwo.inferior\r\nU+2083\tthree.inferior\r\nU+2084\tfour.inferior\r\nU+2085\tfive.inferior\r\nU+2086\tsix.inferior\r\nU+2087\tseven.inferior\r\nU+2088\teight.inferior\r\nU+2089\tnine.inferior"
  created: '2007-02-23 11:47:45'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>This \"_tnum\" [in \u201Cone.onum_tnum\u201D] seems to be an oxymoron,
    as the four basic figure groups are presently understood to be:</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>onum
    = oldstyle + proportional\r\ntnum = oldstyle + tabular\r\nlnum = lining + tabular\r\npnum
    = lining + proportional</cite>\r\n\r\nFollowing the OT numeral feature logic,
    to address tabular oldstyle figures, both tnum and onum features need to be applied
    by the application. So mentioning both these features in the glyph name makes
    this obvious. The table should be:\r\n\r\nwidth:\r\npnum = proportional\r\ntnum
    = tabular\r\n(Each of these features however covers both lnum and onum.)\r\n\r\nalignment:\r\nlnum
    = lining\r\nonum = oldstyle\r\n(Each covers both pnum and tnum.)\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-23 13:33:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Miguel,\r\nDoes this mean I should change all the types I am currently working
    on to this new system? I am in the midst of organizing a workflow that is consistant
    rather than the hodge-podge learn-as-you-go thing I have been doing for the past
    2 years. Will all this change again soon or can I bank on it not breaking in use
    for years to come?\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: Looking forward to meeting you in
    New York!"
  created: '2007-02-23 14:20:58'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Hi Chris,\r\nI can't guarantee that things won't change in the future. All
    I can say is that this is the current best practice. Nonetheless, the glyph naming
    conventions outlined in the links above are pretty solid, so I'd say things are
    likely not to change significantly in the near future.\r\n\r\nSee you soon!"
  created: '2007-02-23 15:56:57'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> onum = oldstyle + proportional\r\n> tnum = oldstyle + tabular\r\n> lnum
    = lining + tabular\r\n> pnum = lining + proportional\r\n\r\nNo no no no :) \r\n\r\nThere
    are two typographic properties of figures: \r\na) case, i.e. vertical size and
    alignment, which can be uppercase (lining) or lowercase (oldstyle/floating)\r\nb)
    width, which can be monospaced (tabular) or proportional. \r\nThese properties
    are controlled *independently* of each other by OpenType Layout features. \r\n\r\nThe
    \"onum\" feature switches UC figures (*lnum) to lc figures (*onum). The \"lnum\"
    does the reverse. \r\n\r\nThe \"pnum\" feature switches monospaced figures (*tnum)
    to proportional figures (*pnum). The \"tnum\" feature does the reverse. \r\n\r\nIf
    your font has four sets of figures (uppercase monospaced, uppercase proportional,
    lowercase monospaced and lowercase proportional): \r\n\r\n* the \"onum\" feature
    switches from uppercase monospaced to lowercase monospaced and from uppercase
    proportional to lowercase proportional; \r\n* the \"lnum\" feature switches from
    lowercase monospaced to uppercase monospaced and from lowercase proportional to
    uppercase proportional; \r\n* the \"pnum\" feature switches from uppercase monospaced
    to uppercase proportional and from lowercase monospaced to lowercase proportional;
    \r\n* the \"tnum\" feature switches from uppercase proportional to uppercase monospaced
    and from lowercase proportional to lowercase monospaced; \r\n\r\nSo, conceptually,
    you have four sets of figures: \r\n* \"onum_tnum\": lowercase monospaced,\r\n*
    \"onum_pnum\": lowercase proportional, \r\n* \"lnum_tnum\": uppercase monospaced,
    \r\n* \"lnum_pnum\": uppercase proportional. \r\n\r\n*One* of these figure sets
    would be your *default* figure set, for which you wouldn't use a glyphname suffix
    and you would assign the Unicode codepoints to them. These could be the uppercase
    monospaced figures, but could be also a different figure set. For the three remaining
    sets, you'd use glyphname suffixes. \r\n\r\nIf you have four figure sets, each
    of the four features (onum, pnum, lnum, tnum) should *always* substitute two sets
    by two other sets. \r\n\r\nMore on this <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/29580?from=64\"><strong>here</strong></a>
    und <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/29648?from=34\"><strong>here</strong></a>.
    \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-23 18:08:45'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "A postscriptum to Miguel's posting:\r\n\r\nAccording to the more strict Adobe
    policy (which separates glyphs inserted through OpenType Layout from glyphs inserted
    through their Unicode codepoints), your font should have two sets of identical
    (duplicate) superscript and subscript figures, named and encoded as shown below.
    This encoding and naming ensures that the original text string will always be
    accurately reconstructed.  \r\n\r\n(U+2070) \"uni2070\" and duplicated as (unencoded)
    \"zero.sups\"\r\n(U+00B9) \"onesuperior\" and duplicated as (unencoded) \"one.sups\"\r\n(U+00B2)
    \"twosuperior\" and duplicated as (unencoded) \"two.sups\"\r\n(U+00B3) \"threesuperior\"
    and duplicated as (unencoded) \"three.sups\"\r\n(U+2074) \"uni2074\" and duplicated
    as (unencoded) \"four.sups\"\r\n(U+2075) \"uni2075\" and duplicated as (unencoded)
    \"five.sups\"\r\n(U+2076) \"uni2076\" and duplicated as (unencoded) \"six.sups\"\r\n(U+2077)
    \"uni2077\" and duplicated as (unencoded) \"seven.sups\"\r\n(U+2078) \"uni2078\"
    and duplicated as (unencoded) \"eight.sups\"\r\n(U+2079) \"uni2079\" and duplicated
    as (unencoded) \"nine.sups\"\r\n(U+2080) \"uni2080\" and duplicated as (unencoded)
    \"zero.sinf\"\r\n(U+2081) \"uni2081\" and duplicated as (unencoded) \"one.sinf\"\r\n(U+2082)
    \"uni2082\" and duplicated as (unencoded) \"two.sinf\"\r\n(U+2083) \"uni2083\"
    and duplicated as (unencoded) \"three.sinf\"\r\n(U+2084) \"uni2084\" and duplicated
    as (unencoded) \"four.sinf\"\r\n(U+2085) \"uni2085\" and duplicated as (unencoded)
    \"five.sinf\"\r\n(U+2086) \"uni2086\" and duplicated as (unencoded) \"six.sinf\"\r\n(U+2087)
    \"uni2087\" and duplicated as (unencoded) \"seven.sinf\"\r\n(U+2088) \"uni2088\"
    and duplicated as (unencoded) \"eight.sinf\"\r\n(U+2089) \"uni2089\" and duplicated
    as (unencoded) \"nine.sinf\"\r\n\r\n(The \".sups\" and \".sinf\" suffixes can
    be anything else, e.g. \".superior\" and \".inferior\" etc.)\r\n\r\nA more economic
    way would be just one set of glyphs (just like you'd only use one set of small
    cap glyphs, \"A.smcp\"). This naming and encoding does not guarantee 100% reconstruction
    of the original string (because e.g. U+2070 will be reconstructed as U+0030).
    \r\n\r\n(U+2070) \"zero.sups\"\r\n(U+00B9) \"one.sups or \"onesuperior\"\r\n(U+00B2)
    \"two.sups\" or \"twosuperior\"\r\n(U+00B3) \"three.sups\" or \"threesuperior\"\r\n(U+2074)
    \"four.sups\"\r\n(U+2075) \"five.sups\"\r\n(U+2076) \"six.sups\"\r\n(U+2077) \"seven.sups\"\r\n(U+2078)
    \"eight.sups\"\r\n(U+2079) \"nine.sups\"\r\n(U+2080) \"zero.sinf\"\r\n(U+2081)
    \"one.sinf\"\r\n(U+2082) \"two.sinf\"\r\n(U+2083) \"three.sinf\"\r\n(U+2084) \"four.sinf\"\r\n(U+2085)
    \"five.sinf\"\r\n(U+2086) \"six.sinf\"\r\n(U+2087) \"seven.sinf\"\r\n(U+2088)
    \"eight.sinf\"\r\n(U+2089) \"nine.sinf\"\r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2007-02-23 18:31:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>According to the more strict Adobe policy (which separates glyphs inserted
    through OpenType Layout from glyphs inserted through their Unicode codepoints),
    your font should have two sets of identical superscript and duplicated as subscript
    figures</em>\r\n\r\nThere's something wrong here.\r\nThere's no need for all this
    redundancy in the font -- why can't the layout application use Unicode codepoints
    for determining OpenType layout features?\r\n\r\n<em>No no no no :)</em>\r\n\r\nAdam,
    Karsten, I understand the principle of \"two variables produces four instances\",
    and have made dozens of OT fonts with four sets of figures that work just fine.\r\n\r\nI
    came to the conclusion that\r\n\"onum = oldstyle + proportional\"\r\nby looking
    at the way characters were named in Adobe fonts, i.e. \"oneoldstyle\", and <em>figured</em>
    the rest out from there.\r\n\r\nLooks like Adobe made a mistake by coming up with
    run-on names such as \"asmall\", \"oneinferior\", and \"oneoldstyle\" -- so don't
    roll your eyes at me, and how about admitting it?\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nAdam, please
    stop refering to \"monospaced\", \"lowercase\" and \"uppercase\" figures.\r\nThe
    correct terms are \"tabular\", \"oldstyle\" and \"lining\", cast in concrete as
    OpenType features! \r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/features_ae.htm\r\n\r\nWhat
    is the point of having standards if you don't stick with them?\r\n\r\nYou guys
    are making this up as you go along, changing your minds all the time.\r\n\r\nNow
    I have to encode a simple \"alternate set\" as:\r\n\r\n- Salt\r\n- Titling\r\n-
    SS01\r\n\r\n...just to get it to work in past, present, and future versions of
    CS software!\r\n\r\nSure, it's software, and the bugs can always be fixed, but
    this thing is getting out of hand -- the kind of glyph proliferation that has
    been happening to the *ideal* opentype font in recent months is ridiculous. It's
    coming at me from every direction -- language support, legacy application support,
    \"reconstruction\" support. \r\n\r\nWhat type designers -- and the font industry
    -- need is some good standard templates, not to have to figure things out for
    themselves on constantly shifting terrain."
  created: '2007-02-23 19:17:44'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>Adam, Karsten, I understand the principle of \u201Ctwo variables produces
    four instances\u201D, and have made dozens of OT fonts with four sets of figures
    that work just fine.</cite>\r\n\r\nSorry, I know. I just feared the table would
    irritate people who still have to fumble out how it works. (The logic of numeral
    feature styles is rather strange at first glance.)\r\n\r\n<cite>What type designers
    \u2014 and the font industry \u2014 need is some good standard templates, not
    to have to figure things out for themselves on constantly shifting terrain.</cite>\r\n\r\nMy
    impression is that this will continue to be the status quo until finally Microsoft
    will come up with truely OT-savvy* applications (not a mere WPF, but WPF used
    by Word &c) -- of course with their own interface to access OT features. And it
    may take one or two more steps until Apple, Adobe, MS finally assimilate their
    slightly different approaches, so that user can use OT fonts the same way throughout
    different OSses and applications. No idea what this means in terms of years.\r\nProve
    that I am wrong and I'll be happy.&nbsp;&nbsp;:)"
  created: '2007-02-23 19:36:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Would it be possible to make some sort of a software matrix that would reside
    with the systems font engine that would contain all the assorted figure naming
    conventions and point them all to the same glyph rather than cramming all this
    redundancy into each and every font? It would function like a Rosetta Stone and
    could work like a substitution feature where you might say:\r\nSub glyph names
    a b c d for glyph Z or unicode number XXXX. This would take the hex off of legacy
    fonts and put it on the system software which changes every year anyway.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-23 19:37:20'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\ndid you test your fonts in various applications that support
    advanced typographic OpenType Layout features, or just in Adobe applications?
    One shouldn't presume that one particular implementation is enough to test against.
    (For example, do you test your features in TextEdit on Mac OS X 10.4? Or in Mellel?)
    BTW, I'm not implying that there is something wrong with *your* fonts. I haven't
    seen your OT code, and perhaps everything is all-right with it. \r\n\r\n\"You
    guys are making this up as you go along, changing your minds all the time.\" \u2014
    I read some bitterness in what you're saying, but I believe you're being a bit
    naiive. I think you expect that some superminds behind the scenes had figured
    everything out back in 1999 (when OpenType was introduced), envisioned all kinds
    of typographic uses and cases for the layout features, all kinds of problems that
    a developer may run into. But of course, this was never the case. In the past
    years, OpenType has always been a work in progress. This is normal: when the specification
    was written, there were practically no applications that used it (except the Microsoft
    complex-script engines for Arabic, Indic scripts etc.), and there were only a
    handful fonts. When you look at the features as they were defined in Adobe Garamond
    Pro (one of the first OpenType fonts made by Adobe) and in Palatino Linotype (one
    of the first OpenType fonts with advanced typographic features made by Microsoft),
    there are a *lot* of bad practices. \r\n\r\nI'm a person who's been trying to
    monitor whatever the \"big guys\" (Adobe, Microsoft, Apple) are doing, communicate
    with some independent developers (such as John Hudson), add my modest bit of knowledge
    about typesetting practice and about linguistic aspects, and distill this into
    designer-comprehensible talk. What I'm suggesting are \"best practices as I see
    them\", or perhaps \"best practices as Fontlab Ltd. sees them\". There is a certain
    amount of subjectivity -- you can always do this or that *differently* if you
    know why you're doing this. There are cases where you don't want to supply glyphnames
    at all in your fonts, there are cases where you want to write some features differently
    from what I recommend etc. I've done some thinking about this topic, but everyone
    is welcome, or actually even encouraged, to do his own thinking. \r\n\r\nYou're
    free to accept my advice, and you're free to reject it. You're welcome and encourage
    to comment and challenge my advice and my thinking -- as I never claimed that
    I know it all. \r\n\r\nBest, \r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-23 21:34:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'm not bitter Adam, just frustrated working on the never-ending font, as
    I discover something new each month that should be included or changed. \r\n\r\nBut
    perhaps I'm naiive, in wanting to produce fonts that function perfectly, as that
    no longer appears to be possible, and they're turning into just another piece
    of buggy software that needs constant upgrades to keep all the features working
    properly and in sync with applications. \r\n\r\nI treat your recommendations very
    seriously, and as I've said before, you are in the perfect position, with FontLab,
    to take the lead and establish some standardized OpenType font formats that independent
    foundries can use. Nobody wants to be the little shop whose customers have to
    figure out its quirks. And the customers -- the typographers -- would like to
    see some consistency, so that they don't have to read a pdf manual for each font
    just to figure out how the features of Foundry A differ from Foundry B.\r\n\r\nI'd
    love to be able to scroll down to a \"FontLab Latin Text\" codepage and have all
    the characters (including smcp, sinf, sups, etc.) pop up in grey, with proper
    unicoding and feature sets pre-built. The I click on \"one.superior\", and FontLab
    renders a scaled, positioned version of the \"one.lnum_pnum\" glyph in the character
    position. Pre-built family-naming would be handy too.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-24 00:42:06'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> I\u2019d love to be able to scroll down to a \u201CFontLab Latin \r\n>
    Text\u201D codepage and have all the characters (including \r\n> smcp, sinf, sups,
    etc.) pop up in grey, with proper \r\n> unicoding and feature sets pre-built.
    The I click \r\n> on \u201Cone.superior\u201D, and FontLab renders a scaled, \r\n>
    positioned version of the \u201Cone.lnum_pnum\u201D glyph in \r\n> the character
    position. Pre-built family-naming \r\n> would be handy too.\r\n\r\nHow much would
    you be willing to pay for this functionality? \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-02-27 12:39:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: How much would FontLab be willing to charge?
  created: '2007-02-27 16:06:05'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\nseriously, there are various options available -- scripts and
    extension files provided by indepenetent developers, core functionality within
    FontLab Studio, a separate tool. They could be custom-tailored or general-use.
    \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-03-02 15:17:04'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: /Track/
  created: '2007-03-02 15:33:38'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>I\u2019m not bitter Adam, just frustrated working on the never-ending
    font, as I discover something new each month that should be included or changed.</cite>\r\n\r\nAlthough
    there are things that have changed, including Adobe's choices for glyph names,
    there has never been any significant change in how we associate glyphs and features
    in this area (onum/tnum/lnum/pnum). Not since we shipped our first featureful
    OpenType fonts seven years ago.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-03-04 04:50:08'
date: '2007-02-13 17:35:40'
title: Adobe OT PS Standard Names (CFF)

---
