---
author:
  name: jlg4104
  picture: 111297
body: "I'm interested in any input on this topic. I'm thinking there are two kinds
  of relationships between political/cultural matters and the formal features of a
  typeface:\r\n\r\nRelationship 1: the formal features emerge directly as a result
  of political or cultural shifts. I.e., somebody says, \"Strip all the ornament,
  for such matter reflects bourgeois culture.\" And the typefaces that are designed
  in response to this call are thus stripped of ornament. Seems to be most common
  to post- WWI modernism and after. But I know there's more to the story-- going all
  the way back to Carolingian minuscule you see something like political and cultural
  imperatives pushing into the world of script design (any \"state\" mandate to standardize
  a script would seem to apply here, but also any other kind of cultural call for
  some new or different formal features). \r\n\r\nRelationship 2: People attribute
  political or cultural perspectives to the type design after or outside the material
  context in which the design originated. I.e., somebody says, \"Let's use this blackletter
  for our heavy metal band's name, because it looks dark and pointy and scary.\" These
  attributions can be made pretty much at random by anyone, with or without connection
  to historical contexts (see Eva Brumberger's research on \"typeface personality\"--
  neat stuff, but it's all about psychological impressions in the here-and-now).\r\n\r\nAny
  thoughts? Interesting cases? The nationalism/blackletter thing is one obvious example.
  And I believe Hrant has written some very thoughtful stuff about the problems of
  Latinization, which is great example of how political/cultural forces have shaped
  the actual formal features of a script/typeface.\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\n- Jay"
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Early Greek letterforms were simple sans serif with little or no decorative
    features. Later, letters were adorned and formed more to some asthetic bent or
    another. The balance swings both ways and is rarely just a political thing. People
    in the arts and crafts have a history of being a bit eccentric and not big rote-step
    followers of political establishments. It is as much the case that letterform
    designers just did stuff then the politicians pronounced it theirs rather than
    the other way around.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-15 17:34:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: http://typophile.com/node/8856
  created: '2007-02-15 17:51:55'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: Interesting stuff. Thanks. I should mention I'm open to any suggestions, ideas,
    references, etc. I don't presume there's always a direct causal connection between
    Political Idea X and Formal Feature Y, but I am interested in the connections
    when they do exist (and that's a point well-taken, dezcom, that designers are
    also individuals who create things-- it's not all about a visual design being
    produced by social or political forces, as there has to be an individual artist
    in the equation somewhere, even if you're talking about the one who programs the
    AI system that generates "new" typefaces).
  created: '2007-02-15 18:07:29'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Well, one of the aspects you could look at is the decline of the Fraktur
    face and the accompany Kurrentschriften in light of politics from WWII.  It's
    a shame too, I rather like both of them but now hardly anyone can read either.\r\n\r\nYou
    can also see some of it within the American university system's greek system (and
    even outside) where they will attempt to designate a sigma as an E, simply to
    draw connexion to their organisation, which in turn can cause repudiation for
    independent students when they see Greek letters being used for anything else
    other than actually written Greek.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan
    fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos.\xBB (La Luz Oscura,
    por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2007-02-15 22:02:12'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: Is 'Kurrentschriften' a  kind of handwriting or cursive? I don't read German,
    but I found it on the .de version of Wikipedia and tried to guess... Is there
    an adequate English translation? Just curious. Thanks!
  created: '2007-02-15 23:05:03'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Kurrentschriften  =  scrolling texts\r\n\r\nThe origin--  Latin: Currere
    (cure-rare-aye), run, run the course etc etc \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-16 00:09:10'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: 'So it''s equivalent to Cursive writing: that script for scrawling profanities?'
  created: '2007-02-16 01:29:53'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Yeah, it's a type of cursive, it's very connected, it looks beautiful but
    just like cursive when you're still getting used to it, very hard to read.  The
    primary feature of interest in it for modern day folks is that its e, like in
    Fraktur, was basically two lines, like //.  That's why even today some people
    (<em>generally</em> older IME, YMMV) will still write the umlauts as if they were
    double acutes.  With the younger crowd it might be either a hold over from seeing
    parents write, or simply a stylistic difference (like Spanish-speakers using a
    macron instead of a tilde for \xF1).\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea
    tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos.\xBB (La Luz
    Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2007-02-16 04:27:30'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: Interesting that when you get to the nuts and bolts of specific cultural practices,
    you have to count handwriting practices, not just printing and type. My grandfather,
    for example, took some mechanical drawing classes in his youth, and his handwriting
    always retained what they taught-- quick, straight strokes, a boxy kind of highly
    readable "font," etc. And speaking of cursive, I don't even know if they teach
    that in the U.S. any more. I learned it in 4th grade, I think. I never use it--
    I print, but maybe with some messy connectors here and there that are vestiges
    of the cursive.
  created: '2007-02-16 12:23:20'
- author:
    name: devils son
  body: "The Middle East/Islamic world offers some illuminating examples of the association
    between religion and script (and then in modernity, religion and type). \r\n\r\nA
    primary tenet of Islam is that the Koran is the word of God, written in the language
    of God. As a consequence, the Arabic language and script became valued in ways
    that are specific to the religion of Islam and its civilization. Note that the
    Arabic script spread along with Islam from the central Middle East beyond the
    limits of the spread of the Arabic language itself. Thus Persian and Urdu, among
    other languages of Muslim countries, are written in Arabic script. The association
    of religion with script was so clearly identified in the Middle Ages that Jews,
    writing in Arabic, used the Hebrew alphabet. Through this, we see Jews identified
    fully as Arabic speakers/writers, but who preserve the marker of the religious
    association of identity and script (called Judeo-Arabic).\r\n\r\nAnother example
    is interesting. In 1928 Turkey, Atat\xFCrk initiated a massive language reform
    initiative that required the adoption of Latin script to the exclusion of the
    Arabic script. Arabic script had been used to write Turkish for a millennium,
    but in the context of language reform it was criticized for its complexity and
    unsuitability for the Turkish language. From the perspective of Turkish nationalism,
    Arabic script was also perceived to be \"foreign,\" and therefore inappropriate.
    And, from the perspective of the secular nation-state, Arabic script was associated
    with Islam and the failures of the Ottoman Empire.\r\n\r\nIn Central Asia, Turkic
    languages began to be written in the Latin alphabet in the late 1920s, but by
    1940 Russian hegemony moved these societies to the adoption of the Cyrillic alphabet.
    Flash forward to the fall of the Soviet Union and we witness competition between
    the three scripts/type that could be used for writing Turkic languages. Sometimes
    called the \"war of the typewriters,\" this cultural struggle was played out in
    part through the competing efforts of Russia, Turkey, and Islamic countries (esp.
    Saudi Arabia), each trying to get the newly-independent states to adopt a script/type
    which represented the larger cultural world to which they would be attached. The
    question was whether these countries would be aligned with the old imperial power
    of Russia, the larger transnational world of Turkish identity, or to the even
    larger world of Islamic civilization.\r\n\r\nThe association of Arabic script
    to religion is not necessary by virtue of the script's form, but is a religious/ideological
    construct that remains a significant cultural artifact to this day."
  created: '2007-02-17 05:13:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That's interesting Fred, but the association of aesthetics with an alphabetic
    script is a different matter than with type, where it's generally understood to
    be design style-- something that is created by individuals, whereas alphabets
    are more of a social contract.\r\n\r\nHowever, there have been quite a few alphabet
    (re)designers who created \"conscripts\" (constructed scripts).\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_script\r\n\r\nPeter
    the Great (Cyrillic, early 18th century)\r\nIsaac Pitman (Shorthand, 1840s)\r\nJan
    Tschicold, Herbert Bayer (Unicase, early 20th C)\r\nHenry Eveleigh (calligraphic-phonetic,
    1950)\r\nJames Pitman (Initial teaching Alphabet, 1960)\r\nKingsley Read (Shaw
    alphabet, 1960)\r\nAnthony I. Rozak (Phonetic alphabet, 1970)\r\nPhillip Stamm
    (Phonograms, 1997)\r\n\r\nAnd many, many others.\r\nMost of these were not primarily
    aesthetically driven, but were designs attempting to improve the basic functionality
    of the phonetic coding of speech into script. For pedagogic reasons, or to help
    those with reading difficulty. Shorthand has a particular focus of functionality,
    which is transcribing speech in real time -- to do more with writing than reading.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    there is always a political/cultural/social/aesthetic dimension to any design,
    and it is ironically perhaps more tangible in conscripts than in type design where,
    as Jay notes in his second point, the broader cultural connections are by association,
    which can be quite arbitrary.\r\n\r\nGraphology is an aspect of writing which
    is not given much credence as a science, but I suspect it has some connection
    with the sociology of type forms. As social understanding, it has been most developed
    by graphic designers and art directors, working with targeted demographics, in
    an intuitive way. Typography! \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-17 06:35:36'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I hope I am not going too far off topic to add the example of the latinization
    campaign in the Soviet Union described in Terry Martin's excellent <em>The Affirmative
    Action Empire: Nations and Nationalism in the Soviet Union, 1923-1939</em> (Cornell
    UP, 2001). Soviet language planning in the 1920s and 1930s is a fascinating topic.
    Driven by the internationalist rhetoric of Communism, to overcome the non-Russians'
    mistrust of rule from Moscow, and other such complex reasons, Soviet authorities
    promoted national culture and opposed assimilation in this period.\r\n\r\nAmong
    the symbolic markers of identity was the national alphabet. The latinization campaign
    \"involved either changing the alphabet of a language from a script such as Arabic
    or Cyrillic to the Latin script or creating a new written language using the Latin
    script for previously exclusively oral languages\" (185). Part of the reason was
    that \"the Cyrillic alphabet was strongly associated with Orthodox missionary
    activity and Russian colonialsm\". The Yakut in 1920 and the Ossetines in 1923
    abandoned their Cyrillic scripts for Latin spontaneously for this reason, before
    any central policy was implemented.\r\n\r\nFor the Islamic peoples who had traditionally
    used the Arabic script, the strong identification of that script to Islam and
    the conservative elites as well as the already-mentioned reasons for rejecting
    Cyrillic led to the choice of the more neutral Latin. A pan-Turkic campaign led
    by Azerbaijanis brought about the Latin-based Turkic alphabet, which celebrated
    a major triumph outside the Soviet Union in 1928 when the Turkish Republic adopted
    the Latin script.\r\n\r\nThe latinization campaign expanded throughout the Soviet
    Union, its anti-Russian character became more transparent, and even the latinization
    of Russian itself was discussed: after all, \"only the latinists were true internationalists\".
    (Of particular interest to me is the campaign for the latinization of Korean.
    Plans for a Latin Korean alphabet \"were approved but apparently not actualized\"
    (200).)\r\n\r\nBy 1932, 66 languages had been latinized and seven more languages
    were in the process of being latinized. However, the ideological atmosphere had
    shifted by 1933, with the political crises in Ukraine and Belorussia where local
    nationalists were charged with treasonous irredentism. The question was now about
    reversing latinization; this shift in the entire Soviet national policy would
    culminate in the deportations of 1935-1938, when \"at least nine Soviet nationalities--Poles,
    Germans, Finns, Estonians, Latvians, Koreans, Chinese, Kurds, Iranians--were all
    subjected to ethnic cleansing\" (311).\r\n\r\nReading about the \"war of the typewriters\"
    is fascinating in that historical context."
  created: '2007-02-17 06:41:06'
- author:
    name: devils son
  body: "Nick, Most interesting! \r\n\r\nOne could argue that the Turkish adoption
    of the Latin alphabet was a conscript project, in that basic Latin letters were
    altered with diacritical marks. Although such diacritics are fundamental features
    of such languages as French and German, the Turkish adoption was in fact an adaptation
    which was explicitly rationalized as an effort \"to improve the basic functionality
    of the phonetic coding of speech into script.\" The Turkish conscript argument
    was that the reforms would permit the language to be read more easily, and hence
    learned more easily, and that the new script would be amenable to modern printing.
    \r\n\r\nAs a footnote, I should acknowledge the fact that there was an Ottoman
    Turkish (that is, in Arabic script) printing tradition which began in the early
    eighteenth century.\r\n\r\nI am trying to speak to Jay's second point, above.
    My point of departure is his reference to Carolingian miniscule. \r\n\r\nAnd thanks
    to Brian for expanding on Soviet attitudes toward national identity and scripts."
  created: '2007-02-17 08:49:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Wealth of knowledge by all! This is becoming quite a thread!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-17 14:11:58'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Jay, FWIW, I tend to argue that blackletter is now being rehabilitated* by
    way of fashionable subcultures that mimic other earlier subcultural adoptions
    of blackletter for its shock value/association with WW2-era Germany. I believe
    that blackletter was pretty much 'typographically unspeakable' in western Europe
    until it had been culturally transformed by association with youth music cultures
    in the 70s and 80s (hence your ref. to the heavy metal bands, although now you
    can have thrash/speed/death metal as well!). \r\n\r\n*or should that be recycled?\r\n\r\nI
    see you're a college professor, so I perceive your question as running straight
    back into a conversation about design education at large.\r\n\r\nWhat gets left
    out of a wider picture of the cultural/political aesthetics of type and lettering
    systems \u2013 as other writers here are already pointing out \u2013 is clearly
    a major consideration.\r\n\r\nI recently read of a case in which a country in
    the Persian Gulf went to a well known American University and bought a graphic
    design degree programme 'off the shelf' \u2013 buildings, faculty, administration,
    syllabus, curricula \u2013 the whole lot. Only after the programme had completed
    an academic audit after three (or maybe five?) years of operation, did it become
    apparent that there was <em>no provision</em> on the course to teach, or even
    recognise, the importance of Arabic calligraphy within the context of this 'degree'
    programme.\r\n\r\nWhile I'm fascinated to hear of the earlier Latinization of
    vast parts of the globe by both Attaturk and Stalin, I feel it's necessary to
    be aware of how this process continues by other means. Cultural imperialism at
    this level means that entire generations, not just individual typefaces, get divorced
    from the cultural traditions of which they should be the rightful inheritants.\r\n\r\nI
    now live and work on the far side of the Pacific, and these are interesting times;
    a number of Chinese universities are already set to repeat similar mistakes as
    the one above, while conversely, a number of Pacific Island languages are being
    committed to written/typographic systems for the the first time ever \u2013 but
    I'm not aware of many P.I type designers, so who is making the decisions about
    what these 'new' languages look like on the page?"
  created: '2007-02-17 23:36:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Not quite cultural imperialism, but closer to home: design chauvinism towards
    advertising typography.\r\n\r\nUpdike \"Printing Types\": no sans serifs -- too
    \"trade\"\r\nWarren Chappell \"Short History\": no advertisements shown\r\nRobin
    Kinross \"Modern Typography\": 25 visual examples, none are magazines or advertisements.\r\nBlackwell
    \"20th Century Type\": concentrates on the avante garde, ignoring the \"living
    tradition\".\r\nMeggs \"History\": a couple of pages on \"the new advertising\",
    but nothing on the old.\r\n\r\nThe standard notion of what constitutes our typographic
    culture is derived from collections of art posters, design awards annuals, and
    specimen books. Institutions do not collect or study the low art of their own
    culture.\r\n\r\nIn the cultural picture, advertising typography is caught between
    the rock of \"proper\" book typography with its centuries of tradition, and the
    hard place of the modernist narrative that centres on the Bauhaus. Advertising
    is further dissed by the marxist tack of academia, where aesthetics is all about
    sexism and consumerism. No wonder the idea of advertising art and typography as
    a subject of aesthetic discourse sounds improbable.\r\n\r\nIt has taken feminist
    historians to write an alternate narrative -- such as Bogart in \"Advertising,
    Art Direction, and the Borders of Art\", and Thomson in \"The Origins of Graphic
    Design in America\", treating the aesthetics of advertising art as worthy of serious
    cultural study.\r\n\r\nThere does exist a popular design interest in advertising
    history, but it has gotten channelled into kitsch and nostalgia.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nOn
    the subject of cultural lacunae, mention must be made of Nicholson Baker, the
    anti-microfiche campaigner. Now this fellow is a novelist and writer, but he has
    recently rescued the single remaining whole archive of The World newspaper (published
    by Joseph Pulitzer from the 1890s), which would otherwise have been broken up.
    And he has published reproductions of its pages in a book \"The World on Sunday\",
    which are absolutely astonishing, literally, seeing these pages is like discovering
    a world you never knew existed. The irony is that The World had a circulation
    of over half a million, and yet it is less represented in libraries than the short
    runs which Aldus printed.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nSo this is the politics of type: what
    a sizeable percentage of typographers do for a living is ignored by their culture,
    and it has been written out of the history which design students are taught at
    college.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-18 04:31:15'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "Design chauvinism is a handy term that could also be applied to a theme that
    I am currently doing my best to rework. A very long time ago I wrote about what
    I named, half-seriously, \u2018English vernacular\u2019, a tradition of signwriting
    and incised lettering that was in current use in the 18th and 19th centuries.
    but was almost annhilated by the highminded authorities who discovered from Edward
    Johnston that the use of the broad pen was the exclusive basis of all good letters
    and that copperplate script was the work of Mammon if not the Devil himself. Among
    types Scotch Roman and M. F. Benton\u2019s Century Schoolbook preserved something
    of the qualities of the tradition. Here is an example of signwriting of about
    1880 (I guess) to remind us of what we lost in the name of good taste: letters
    that (in this case) are vulgar, clumsy \u2013 and generous and full of life. The
    image was made in the 1960s in a country pub in Suffolk, by Desmond Jeffery \u2013
    a friend, and a superb typographer and printer.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sign
    - Meet friendly_4806... aaa bw - 600.jpg]"
  created: '2007-02-18 08:56:10'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "I'm sorry \u2013 that image must have been too vulgar to load. This one is
    older (1870s) and more mainstream. A sign on a 16th century building that had
    become a pub. The front of the building was saved and placed in the Victoria &
    Albert Museum. Of course the sign was destroyed.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sign
    - Sir Paul Pindar 6 a - 600_5030.jpg]"
  created: '2007-02-18 09:20:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Nick and James, I'm really looking forward to your books on this subject :)
  created: '2007-02-18 15:01:48'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: The Cherokee syllabary makes an interesting case also. Apart from the politics
    of whether to use romanization or the syllabary (on which I've heard opposing
    opinions from the two Tsalagi speakers I've discussed it with), the formal qualities
    of the glyphs in the syllabary are also an issue. As a product of the 1820s, it
    was created in a context where modern faces, mainly scotch, were the norm. Serifs
    are functionally necessary in it, and if a typeface doesn't have a vertical axis
    with very strong contrast, it is apparently perceived as "not Cherokee enough"
    in appearance.
  created: '2007-02-18 18:00:17'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Nick and James, I\u2019m really looking forward to your books on this
    subject :) </cite>\r\n\r\nMe too. Or even an article or typecon presentation.
    This means that I have suggested 2 topics to Nick by now for typecon. Which may
    be annoying. If so, my apologies."
  created: '2007-02-19 00:11:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'I spoke on the topic, as "The Triumph of Historicism: The Typography of American
    Mass Market Magazines 1889-1930" at TypeCon and ATypI in 2001, and have written
    a few articles about it. A book is in the works, which is a a good excuse for
    acquiring research material. '
  created: '2007-02-19 03:20:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the highminded authorities who discovered from Edward Johnston that the
    use of the broad pen was the exclusive basis of all good letters and that copperplate
    script was the work of Mammon if not the Devil himself. </em>\r\n\r\nI have always
    thought Johnston's calligraphy was over-rated. I refer to his \"Book of Sample
    Scripts\", which I have in facsimile. It is considered his \"outstanding work\"
    in the preface, perhaps understandably, as this was written by LP Harthan, former
    Keeper of the V&A Library, which houses the document.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/johnston_6102.jpg]\r\n\r\nJohnston's
    rhythm varies a lot in the long biblical extract from David and Goliath, becoming
    quite cramped in places. His work lacks the slick professionalism of traditional
    calligraphy of similar vintage, such as one may find in numerous church registers
    listing those fallen in the Great War. The amateurism of his technique may well
    be part of his appeal, with an Arts & Crafts authenticity of rough \"honest\"
    labour. He certainly made calligraphy accessible to many people, by giving legitimacy
    to a more rough-hewn finish than the traditional, official calligraphy associated
    with the heraldic tradition, both secular and ecclesiastic, which would be considered
    the despicable \"trade\".\r\n\r\nJohnston was a man on a mission, who publicized
    his theories. An adage, \"There is hope in honest error; None in the icy perfections
    of the mere stylist\" by CR Mackintosh sums up the attitude.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-20 16:44:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If that sample is Johnston\u2019s finest calligraphy, then I don't feel at
    all bad about mine anymore :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-20 17:22:57'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Wasn't Johnston one to never correct or redo something?
  created: '2007-02-20 17:29:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hard to believe a type designer who is not a perfectionist :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-20 18:30:58'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "He wasn't at type designer. He was a calligrapher who made some lettering
    instructions for the London Underground's draftsmen. This doesn't diminish his
    contributions to 20th century art, design, craft, and culture. But type design
    is something more specific, which he did not really do. \r\n\r\nAlthough of course,
    I have a feeling he probably was a perfectionist. He probably even saw some perfection
    in his errors."
  created: '2007-02-20 20:15:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "So being that he was English, he was not an Erroronimous Bosch :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-20 20:19:17'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "On Nick's mention of \"design chauvinism\": I see that a forthcoming thematic
    issue of the Journal of Design History is on\r\n\r\nThe Ghosts of the Profession:
    Amateur, Vernacular and Dilettante Practices and Modern Design.\r\n\r\nCall for
    papers is <a href=\"http://www.oxfordjournals.org/our_journals/design/jdh_call_for_papers_06.pdf\">here</a>
    (but deadline for submission is already past). It will be interesting to see if
    the issue has anything on type/lettering."
  created: '2007-02-20 20:39:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That's weird -- it differentiates between commercial/industrial vernacular
    and professional practice.\r\n\r\nI can see how that would apply to a long-standing
    accredited profession such as architecture, but not to graphic design, where the
    majority of the \"despicable\" trade practice is both vernacular AND professional
    (meaning that not just AIGA/GDC members are professionals, but anyone who makes
    a living in the trade). But perhaps some submissions will address this.\r\n\r\nAn
    example of how design chauvinism works: the 1960s DDB VW ads are in all the history
    books, and won many awards. Therefore they are professional. However, concurrrent
    ads by GM, Ford, Chrysler and AMC weren't so \"creative\" (yo, car porn spreads!)
    and thus constitute the vernacular, ie. the unwritten history*. But in socio-economic
    terms, there is no difference, they're all products of Madison Avenue.\r\n\r\nAnd
    they all used sans serif fonts. \r\n\r\n*Except for vernacular history, now on
    the internet. Brilliant! --\r\nhttp://www.oldcarbrochures.com/"
  created: '2007-02-20 21:17:33'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: "Wow, this thread came back with a vengeance, just when I thought it had fizzled.
    Thank you all for the useful material. As I'd mentioned in the original post,
    I am interested in any clear connections between cultural/political initiatives
    and formal features of type (or print). Overt movements, like nationalistic campaigns
    that identify a particular design feature as somehow \"representing\" or embodying
    some feature of national culture, are particularly intriguing to me. But other
    kinds of connections are interesting, too-- I just was reading about a Czech typographer
    who wanted to get \"Czechness\" into his designs. \r\n\r\nThanks again for all
    the input."
  created: '2007-02-25 17:22:30'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Jay\r\n\r\nThe graduate seminar organizing the exhibition I mentioned in
    <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/19244\">this thread</a> is underway: I imagine
    our findings may be of interest to you when they are complete. I've also been
    thinking lately of how the well-established conversation in art history about
    <em>style</em> might be leveraged to sort out some of the theoretical problems
    in design history that you're spotlighting. \r\n\r\nI'm glad to hear that others
    out there are asking some of the same questions I have."
  created: '2007-02-26 22:57:19'
date: '2007-02-15 17:20:57'
node_type: forum
title: political/cultural aesthetics of type

---
