---
author:
  name: BrooklynRob
  picture: 110975
body: "There is a media campaign in New York's subways designed by Milton Glaser to
  raise awareness about the massacres in Darfur. What's interesting about these from
  a design standpoint is the avoidance of the expected shock photos of poverty, violence,
  etc. Instead, the solution is completely type-based, and quite effective, I think.
  By avoiding the heart-wrenching people-as-victims photos, I think the people in
  question retain dignity and the \"coversation\" transpires at a rational level.
  (Although one could make the point that the disaster has passed the point of \"rationality\"
  being appropriate.) Any thoughts?\r\n\r\nHere is a story with some photos of the
  ads:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.designdrivethru.net\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "first thought: brilliant. second thought after this discussion and some squinting:
    good, but not great. i think i responded more to the sentiment than the design.
    \r\ninteresting topic there: wherein lies the \"response\" to design ?\r\n\r\nglaser
    has always been a hero to me. i was fortunate to meet him once and like a true
    master he said just a few things but they still resonate with me. understatement
    is ultimately more powerful than overstatement.\r\n\r\ntoo bad about the fat yellow
    logo thing in the corner, but overall the poster is striking enough to hold my
    attention. crossing out the names of relatives is genius; we all have grandmothers.\r\n\r\nthe
    hand keeps it human, but i admit it's a bit \"mixed\". i like it because the ambiguous
    upward reach is potent in a way that only understatement can be.\r\n\r\nthanks
    to those who ask me to think. and rethink."
  created: '2007-02-22 17:09:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Does anyone else find the word DARFUR badly spaced? '
  created: '2007-02-22 17:11:24'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'Yes, Si. It''s too bad. Fortunately, this will be like any other instance
    of bad spacing: the public won''t notice. Great poster otherwise.'
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: what's the problem ? it appears rhythmically even to me. wide, but even.
    created: '2007-02-22 17:38:11'
  created: '2007-02-22 17:32:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Opticaly seems to fall apart towards the end of the word, esp evident in
    the smaller posters. Granted its a difficult word to set.  '
  created: '2007-02-22 17:56:07'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I'd have nudged the F to the right a little.\r\n\r\nI like these but have
    found the \"We Are All African\" campaign a bit misguided at times, in particular
    the pic of Gwyneth Paltrow with a smudge on her face. She is about as un-African
    as it's possible to be."
  created: '2007-02-22 17:56:49'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "re: gwyneth / non-african - that's the whole point ! by using the ultimate
    \"non-african\" they ask what it means to say: we are all african. evolutionary
    or just compassionate identification? sounds like it worked.\r\n\r\nthe phrase
    is not original to this campaign. i saw it on a t-shirt about 15 years ago.\r\n\r\ni
    see the letter spacing now - thanks. that's why i love this site. nailed by the
    ol' F U !!  \r\n;)"
  created: '2007-02-22 18:03:23'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Well I know that's the point! I just think it falls flat. A rich white actress
    who starves herself?
  created: '2007-02-22 18:05:46'
- author:
    name: GraphicFuzz
    picture: 111520
  body: "I saw these poster on the subway about a month ago, and I have to admit I
    thought they were just rubbish. I gave them a pass because I thought they were
    student work, connected with SVA. I'm surprised now to learn they were Glaser's
    creation. Truly uninspired, ugly and conceptually garbled. I really hate the oh-so-literal
    visual interpretation of \"We Are All African.\" And playing off the Vegas tourism
    tagline... um... just a little inappropriate? I dont know what message the designer
    wants me to walk away with except maybe poorly written, poorly executed design.
    Staring at these for the half hour I was on the train only made me angry... but
    not at the situation in Darfur.\r\n\r\nOf course that's just my opinion, they
    could be brilliant to someone else."
  created: '2007-02-22 18:35:49'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Perhaps the problem stems from the fact that the people who create campaigns
    like this are most emphatically NOT african. Or at least that's my issue with
    them. There is no way any of us sitting here at our computers can possibly understand
    what it's like to be in Darfur right now. So while I applaud any and all efforts
    to raise awareness, money, and outrage, I think the campaign misses the mark.
    It just serves to remind us how totally un-African we are. I'd rather see the
    faces of the Africans themselves and hear their stories than stare at an undernourished
    actress who thinks she can identify with their plight (and congratulate herself
    for her effort). I am so tired of celebrities and the idiots who need to take
    their cues from them.
  created: '2007-02-22 18:48:05'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>I am so tired of celebrities and the idiots who need to take their cues
    from them.</em>\r\n\r\nYou mean there are lots of crazy women shaving their heads
    in New York now?  ;-)"
  created: '2007-02-22 18:50:44'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I assumed she had headlice.
  created: '2007-02-22 18:52:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>We Are All African</em>\r\n\r\nRight, but Barack more so :-)"
  created: '2007-02-22 19:00:28'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Oh but Nick, he's not really black!\r\n\r\nI saw that Stephen Colbert piece
    again recently and it's even funnier the second time around."
  created: '2007-02-22 19:03:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The ads are weakened by having two \"big ideas\" -- crossed-out words and
    the two-tone hand.\r\n\r\nIdeally, they should have made the choice of one concept,
    but perhaps there could have been separate ads in the same campaign: one with
    words, one with the hand, but with the same type style (probably not the exceedingly
    tired Franklin Gothic) and emphasizing the IRC logo as the signature/brand, not
    Darfur."
  created: '2007-02-22 19:27:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "My problem with the poster, aside from the spacing of 'Darfur', is that it's
    false. I don't think hysterical exaggerations are very helpful.  What happens
    in Darfur doesn't happen to us, and those in New York city, with the exception
    of African immigrants, aren't African.  \r\n\r\nThe real point is that we should
    be compassionate, and we should act, in spite of the fact that it's far away and
    doesn't affect us directly. I went to the rally in Washington and have sent the
    e-mails to congress and the president. I'm very frustrated, as usual, that nothing,
    it seems, is happening. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "huh ??\r\n\r\nit's not false, and it's not hysterical.  it's true and it's
      rather understated. it's an idea.\r\nwe can all relate to the crossed out family
      members. \"we are all africans\" is obviously a symbolic, empathetic connection.
      your second paragraph is exactly to the point.\r\n\r\ni do think the posters
      might be stronger as a series with one family member per poster.\r\n\r\ni don't
      understand this gwyneth bashing either. we don't really know anything about
      her.\r\nshe may have donated lots of money to the cause, and the very \"idiots\"
      who are obsessed with her celebrity may be the ones who need to get this message,
      and if she helps, more power to her. i think the anti-celebrity rant is just
      another way of being obsessed with them."
    created: '2007-02-23 04:50:38'
  created: '2007-02-22 20:11:07'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Well put William, I agree. We should act precisely because what is happening
    there is so completely unthinkable to us.\r\n\r\nYou can basically count on our
    president to do exactly the opposite of what is desired."
  created: '2007-02-22 20:18:35'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Perhaps the problem stems from the fact that the people who create campaigns
    like this are most emphatically NOT african. Or at least that\u2019s my issue
    with them.\"\r\n\r\nI believe the point of the message is: We are all African
    = we are all human.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-22 20:42:57'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Yes, I get that, but it just doesn't work for me. The fakeness of Hollywood
    is too at odds with the all-too-realness of what's happening over there. It's
    too self-congratulatory. \r\n\r\nI think Glaser's campaign is somewhat effective,
    despite the lousy kerning, because it does spark the imagination - what if I had
    no brothers/sisters/parents/children - and touch on our real compassion rather
    than make me think \"What the **** does Gwyneth Paltrow know about being African?\""
  created: '2007-02-22 21:06:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I took \"We are all African\" literally in that all of us are descended from
    common African ancestors* - except for the cavemen in the Geico ads. \r\n\r\n*
    Edit: \u201CWe now have convincing evidence that all humans descended from common
    ancestors in southeastern Africa who began migrating northward 60,000 years ago.\u201D
    via http://ga1.org/cfi_oncampus/notice-description.tcl?newsletter_id=3533982  \r\n\r\nAlso
    of interest - http://miltonglaserposters.com/pop/new08_africa.html poster and
    essay."
  created: '2007-02-22 22:01:44'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"she may have donated lots of money to the cause, and the very \u201Cidiots\u201D
    who are obsessed with her celebrity may be the ones who need to get this message\"\r\n\r\nGood
    point. As always, know your audience, and if this audience is 'general American
    Population', seems that celebrity endorsements are a sure bet.\r\n\r\nPatty...you're
    just too smart for this campaign. ;o)"
  created: '2007-02-23 14:50:54'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Actually I remember defending Bono in a thread some months ago on a similar
    topic. To me it doesn't matter if he is a huge egotist or what his motivations
    are, as long as he's doing something good, raising awareness, etc. Ditto Bill
    Gates.\r\n\r\nI just found the image of a too skinny white actress calling herself
    an African jarring and a little offensive. She may be a wonderful and generous
    person - this is not a personal attack on her character. It was big of her to
    contribute her time and effort to this campaign. But as the poster child for Darfur...
    she doesn't work for me. Sorry."
  created: '2007-02-23 15:15:52'
- author:
    name: GraphicFuzz
    picture: 111520
  body: "Not sure what Gweneth Paltrow has to do with any of this. I think you may
    be talking about another campaign. Curious to see how this ties in, please post
    pic or link if you can.\r\n\r\nThis is a <a href=\"http://media.schoolofvisualarts.edu/sva/media/9129/small/Darfur%20brand%20train.pdf\">PDF</a>
    of Glaser's Darfur campaign. Link is to SVA site, multi-page PDF, may be slow
    to load.\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-23 16:12:01'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Well as I learned here, it's a different - yet similar - ad campaign.\r\n\r\nHere's
    the image and a blog from someone who agrees with me\r\n\r\nhttp://www.mshairi.com/blog/?p=311"
  created: '2007-02-23 16:25:33'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "One legalistic tangent\u2014I believe many states still have \"one drop\"
    clauses in law, which basically says that if a person has a single drop of non-white
    blood in his/her tree they are black. In a country where we campaign to have creationism
    taught in schools and fling ourselves under the authoritatian train with such
    zeal I can in a way empathize with the \"all African\" sentiment just as I refuse
    to check the caucasian box on various forms while such inane laws remain on the
    books. Still this line of thinking can turn on itself. I remember meeting a woman
    at a party with a swastika tattoo who claimed to be \"reclaiming the symbol\".
    Something about seeing Ms. Paltrow in the add sends me off in the same way."
  created: '2007-02-23 16:39:02'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I was just in Tulum, Mexico, where someone had drawn a huge swastika on the
    beach. Reclaiming the symbol? It upset me pretty bad.\r\n\r\nAnyway, tell the
    above to Debra Dickerson who thinks Barack Obama isn't black."
  created: '2007-02-23 17:07:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I bought the poster as a contribution to the cause but frankly, I think it
    is a ho-hum poster. I am sure Glaser could have done better but sometimes, we
    just do better than others.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-23 18:47:06'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: http://www.ifilm.com/video/2821363?ns=1
  created: '2007-02-23 21:32:12'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: http://kak.ru/vimg/thumb/article/thumb/d0b7817ab2cff0fd771c8b6ee872376b.gif
  created: '2007-02-24 09:02:22'
- author:
    name: alexhb
    picture: 110687
  body: "as for \"we are all african\" being uninspired, I remember right after the
    september 11th attacks Le Monde ran \"nous sommes tous am\xE9ricains\" (we are
    all americans) as the headline."
  created: '2007-02-24 22:48:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">nous sommes tous am\xE9ricains\r\n\r\nI think this statement was more on
    point. \r\n\r\nFirst French and others in Europe did in fact empathize with the
    suffering of those in the US. The fact is that the US is a derivative of European
    culture and the majority are of European ancestry, and through the media and travel
    French have some familiarity with the US. \r\n\r\nIn the case of Darfur, for most
    Americans Darfur was so unknown and alien that it took an effort to empathize.
    The point of the campaign was to say we should empathize, as those in Darfur are
    human too--which of course is both true and important. But instead of saying we
    should--which some do, but not in massive, effective numbers--they say 'we are
    all africans' which is true neither literally nor in the sense of empathizing
    reflexively. \r\n\r\nSecondly, it was evident to French and other Europeans that
    they wouldn't be exempt from the threat of groups who were terrorists in the name
    of Islam, such as those who had attacked the US. This was also unfortunately true.
    \r\n\r\nThe immediate threat of the Sudan government-sponsored violence against
    the people in Darfur is not a threat likely to be immediately redirected at the
    US and Europe in the same way.  \r\n\r\nThe poster campaign gets it very right
    by emphasizing the common humanity of those in Darfur, but the 'We are all African'
    is wrong enough to detract from the message, IMHO. "
  created: '2007-02-24 23:38:31'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "pattyfab: Tulum is in the heart of Mayan country, and the swastika is visible
    at Copal and Chichen Itza and many other places in the area. I've seen it tattooed
    in bands on a young man in the area, too, as part of indigenous art pattern ...
    don't be alarmed. I don't think there's any rising neo-nazi movement in Tulum.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt
    : http://www.hewnandhammered.com"
  created: '2007-02-25 00:33:45'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: True the symbol has a long history outside of its usual associations.
  created: '2007-02-25 01:32:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I believe that in Hindu and Buddhist iconography, the swastika always has
    a horizontal-vertical orientation, which gives it a sense of repose.  Hitler rotated
    it to the diagonal orientation, with gives it an aggressive dynamism, as if it''s
    whirring toward you.  I don''t know if the American Indian use is also in the
    horizontal-vertical orientation, but I would be surprised if it''s on the diagonal. '
  created: '2007-02-25 01:37:33'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">nous sommes tous am\xE9ricains\r\n\r\nI seem to recall that (then German
    Chancellor) Gerhard Schr\xF6der also expressed the same sentiments, saying (I
    don't have the exact German quote), \"today, we are all Americans.\"\r\n\r\nI
    was in Berlin at the time, and found that particularly pertinent. It was clearly
    a reflection on Kennedy's statement in front of the Berlin wall, \"Ich bin ein
    Berliner.\""
  created: '2007-02-25 11:23:56'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I'm well aware of the swastika's venerated history as a symbol (and remember
    a thread on that topic here awhile ago dealing with logos that look like swastikas
    - c.f. Sun Microsystems). I saw swastikas all over Bali as well. But I doubt the
    symbol I saw on the beach was drawn by a Mayan. And frankly, I don't think the
    swastika can be "reclaimed" as a symbol just yet - too soon, too loaded, too upsetting,
    and still used by skinheads and neo-Nazis in its perverted meaning.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "this raises a very interesting but sensitive topic - \"the art direction
      of fascism\" -\r\nwhich i tried to (very carefully) introduce to my graphic
      design students back when i was teaching.\r\n\r\ni used albert speer and the
      nazi materials as a disturbing but important historical example of the ominous
      power of design. there's no doubt that speer made some very arresting visual
      choices. designers can have influence, often subliminal but also overt. \r\n\r\ni
      was mainly discussing symbols and colors and monumental scale. i know less about
      typographic history... i've heard rumors that hitler called serifs \"decadent\"
      and promoted san serif typography. that seems odd given the nazi's fondess for
      old german gothics. anyone know more ?\r\n\r\ni understand patty's sensitivity.
      we've discussed it, and i sense that the symbol might never be \"reclaimed\".
      just as the cross predates christianity, the six pointed star predates israel,
      the crescent predates islam, but the associations are so deeply reinforced that
      it might as well be ownership. \r\n\r\ntoo bad, in a way, but also fascinating.
      symbols become the symbolized. the power of reductive design."
    created: '2007-02-25 18:31:55'
  created: '2007-02-25 15:40:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">anyone know more?\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/28919"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: thanks for the reference - i've browsed that blackletter thread - i'm interested
      in information on the sans-serif connection - the bizarre notion that serifs
      are decadent but blackletter is... historical legacy ?
    created: '2007-02-25 19:35:34'
  created: '2007-02-25 19:16:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The reference is buried there in the thread, but again the key document is
    the <a href=\"http://german.about.com/library/gallery/blfoto_fraktur06.htm\">Bormann
    decree</a>.\r\n\r\nI think you'll also find more in Steven Heller's book <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Swastika-Symbol-Beyond-Redemption/dp/1581150415/sr=8-3/qid=1172432861/ref=sr_1_3/002-2366700-8164814?ie=UTF8&s=books\">The
    Swastika: Symbol Beyond Redemption?</a> I haven't read the book."
  created: '2007-02-25 19:44:18'
- author:
    name: sch2525
    picture: 112170
  body: "Apparently this thread went a little off topic...\r\n\r\nI'll try my best
    to get it back on track:\r\n\r\nIt bothers me that the poster uses the DARFUR
    logo, the flower, and the hand all at once... I think it would have been a little
    more effective if they handled it with a \"less is more\" approach"
  created: '2007-02-26 19:52:53'
- author:
    name: cooper design
    picture: 111844
  body: "It seems that the most significant obstacle campaigns such as this face is
    the sort of paradoxical relationship between their message and their environment.
    Billboards, bus sides, magazines, posters all play host to objects of our desires
    and fears, and as consumers we are accustomed to thinking of these as liminal
    spaces containing fantasies, lies, distortions, all sorts of salesmanship, and
    much of it already very intimate and presumptuous. If you want a message about
    a real emergency in the real world to really cut through the fog, you've got to
    do better than clever, and be more daring than elegant.\r\n\r\nThe \"acceptability\"
    of Glaser's solution lies in the fact that you could use the poster for cancer,
    wearing a seatbelt, clean drinking water, or a variety of other issues. The tactic
    of presenting a destroyed version of something valuable (be it the word \"daughter\"
    or a Lexus) as a way of illustrating personal responsibility is typical of public
    service announcement scolding (there is also here the authoritarian threat that
    this could happen to you and your family). To the degree that it reinforces the
    general message that you as an individual ought to think about the larger world,
    Glaser's solution probably works just fine.\r\n\r\nBut I think there is a real
    missed opportunity here. \"Innocent people just like the innocent people in your
    family are dying in Darfur in an arbitrary fashion as though they are being crossed
    off a list\" is not a very motivating message. Afterall, innocent people die in
    random, senseless ways all the time. And in a time of war (our own or Sudan's)
    we may even have an elevated tolerance for such deaths. Instead, the message ought
    to have been concerned with the injustice with which these people are being killed.
    \r\n\r\nThe people of NYC don't need to be encouraged to be more compassionate
    or more caring than they already are. They're fine and I trust them to know injustice
    when they see it. What they generally don't know is who the Janjaweed are and
    what they are doing. If the headline \"Genocide in Darfur\" isn't furious enough
    and won't win any design awards, I might suggest a campaign that features some
    photos of the Janjaweed's criminal brutality with the tagline \"Mind your own
    business.\" Not on a dare, they wouldn't. "
  created: '2007-02-26 21:54:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the Janjaweed\u2019s criminal brutality with the tagline \u201CMind your
    own business.\r\n\r\ngreat idea. \r\n\r\nBut the underlying problem is that the
    campaign is not for a specific action to help stop the killing, but giving money
    to an organization--to do what?\r\n\r\nReflecting on this further, what I really
    have a problem with the campaign that it is only an appeal to people to feel righteous
    by empathizing, not a call to specific action. \r\n\r\nThe sad truth seems to
    be that only armed intervention by the outside world will stop the killing. And
    given what is happening in Iraq, the idea of entering into an on-going civil war
    is pretty horrifying. \r\n\r\nI admit that I don't know politically and militarily
    what exactly is going on--other than a huge massacre and displacement of people--and
    what to do about it. But this makes me none the wiser. \r\n\r\nGiving money to
    help refugees is a very good thing, but stopping the killing would be far better.
    This seems to address that, but doesn't really. "
  created: '2007-02-26 22:02:44'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "A little comment to the swastika side track. A straight version was actually
    a sign of the Finnish Air Force before WW II. For ovious reasons it's no longer
    used.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sci.fi/~ambush/faf/faf.html"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "typophile is truly fantastic. i'm not being sarcastic; i mean it. you've
      helped me see (again) the difference between a gut reaction (i support the cause)
      and a well thought out critique.\r\n\r\nthomas cooper: excellent points. i felt
      my head expand.\r\n\r\nwilliam berkson: yes, why don't we know more about this
      ? is it because there is very little (obvious) economic incentive for us to
      act ? who are the janjaweed ? \r\n\r\na disturbing question: how ironic or terrible
      would it be if we acted on the grounds of tying the darfur atrocities to \"the
      war on islamic terrorism?\" i hate that phrase. a horrible situation would be
      made better or worse by more military action ? (i fear the worst.)\r\n\r\nmili
      : yeah, i got us off the thread but that is fascinating. the funky flying finns!\r\n\r\nthanks
      to all and cheers, i hope."
    created: '2007-02-26 22:50:34'
  created: '2007-02-26 22:07:35'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "I think Glaser is presenting a safe design/composition that is in keeping
    with his somewhat dated and tired style. \r\n\r\nWhere's the <a href=\"http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/passion\">passion</a>?
    I don't see it.  \r\n\r\nThere's an ominous urgency prevalent in today's world.
    And I don't get that feel from the Glaser comment either. The rhythm of the piece
    is too demanding and not spontaneous. The balance of the piece smacks of colonial
    middleclass compromise. In short - it's got no soul.\r\n\r\nPerhaps Glaser is
    no longer hungry - no longer pissed off - and has become set in his ways - become
    too commercial. This poster is stale, lame, and is without a pulse.\r\n\r\nIf
    I was to graphically speak of Darfur - I would speak in terms of brute force and
    play off that. Darfur struggles with massive brutality - lives shattered and ripped
    apart, sorrow crushing childern. There's an enourmous weight to what is happening
    in Darfur. \r\n\r\nSo when I see Glaser's little words with little lines comfortably
    arranged amoungst far to much blank space all of which wants to 'discuss' with
    me some kind of loss to us all, I see a graphic coming from someone who is NOT
    empathetic to the great weight of brutal killing on an enormous scale.\r\n\r\n________\r\nHiro\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-27 07:08:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "FYI:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.savedarfur.org/content\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-27 15:56:44'
date: '2007-02-22 17:00:48'
title: Milton Glaser's Darfur Campaign

---
