---
author:
  name: AzizMostafa
  picture: 111536
body: "I\u2019m so grabbing this question from another thread but I thought it would
  be fun to post as its own topic.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m feeling Fonty right now but that
  could change\u2026\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Married to Liza Minnelli!\r\n\r\nThanks folks, I'll be here all week..."
  created: '2007-02-23 06:50:58'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: A lawyer.
  created: '2007-02-23 08:09:41'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Well.. \r\nI thought about it.\r\nBut I won't be another one than Georg.\r\n\r\nI
    am a driver of a company stretch limousine:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pbm_wallpaper_web_4708.jpg]\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-23 08:13:40'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: love technician
  created: '2007-02-23 09:14:53'
- author:
    name: Stefan H
    picture: 109742
  body: 'An architect! Houses and buildnings have always fascinated me. '
  created: '2007-02-23 11:25:44'
- author:
    name: magnus_rakeng
    picture: 109817
  body: Out of work
  created: '2007-02-23 11:53:06'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<strong>Mix tape curator</strong>\r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2007-02-23 12:56:46'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: A Doctor.
  created: '2007-02-23 13:06:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "An unemployed opera singer or a warm-up act comedian at an old-age home on
    open-mike night :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-23 13:24:53'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "A Physicist or an Engineer... Of course, the work would be harder and I probably
    wouldn't get laid as often. Sacrifices I suppose. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-23 13:29:55'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: A poor artist or a chemist.
  created: '2007-02-23 14:17:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Georg,\r\nLooks like your \"Stretch Limo\" was accidentally redistributed
    into the thinspace bin :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-23 14:25:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Andrew,\r\nI didn't know being a designer had become a bedside mannerism
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-23 14:27:19'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I'd be a shrink. I love listening to peoples problems. Makes me feel better
    about my own.
  created: '2007-02-23 14:29:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Dr. Patty,\r\nDo you have an opening at 3:00pm? I have enough problems to
    tell you to make you feel better for life :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-23 14:31:32'
- author:
    name: matthew_desmond
    picture: 110578
  body: I would either be a racecar driver or an accountant. How's that for range.
  created: '2007-02-23 14:33:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess we can't typecast Matthew!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-23 14:36:53'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: I can't imagine not doing something that doesn't involve design, so perhaps
    the "right" answer is <em>dead</em>.
  created: '2007-02-23 15:05:14'
- author:
    name: spookDD
    picture: 112273
  body: Rally Car Driver. Maaaaybe president.
  created: '2007-02-23 15:20:16'
- author:
    name: Andy Martin
    picture: 111412
  body: "On the Dole probably, or working in school\u2026wait I do that already."
  created: '2007-02-23 16:32:30'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Chris - that'll be 5\xA2."
  created: '2007-02-23 16:38:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Linus will pay you Tuesday Patty :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/25cents_6589.jpg]"
  created: '2007-02-23 17:15:13'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Good grief!
  created: '2007-02-23 17:25:06'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: Marine Biologist. Photographer. Language teacher. Actor. Novelist. There's
    no shortage of interesting things to do in this world.
  created: '2007-02-23 18:31:16'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "a gardener. They don't need upgrades, validation, registration numbers and
    don't expire in 2 years and decompose on their own. \r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "beach bum, scavenger, itinerant minstrel, inmate, monk, prostitute, or....
      \r\nwait a minute, as a freelance designer i get to be all these things !!\r\n\r\n;-}"
    created: '2007-02-23 20:37:51'
  created: '2007-02-23 20:15:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: A retired major league athlete.
  created: '2007-02-23 20:33:30'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.british-genealogy.com/resources/census/o-1881-1.html\"
    target=\"_blank\"> Peacock Feather Trimmer or Tiger Slayer </a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-23 20:42:18'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Rock Star Groupie\r\n\r\nEdit: But I'd need a time machine as I'd want it
    to be for Led Zeppelin in their hayday. :^D "
  created: '2007-02-23 22:40:53'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'Edit: cross post'
  created: '2007-02-23 22:42:50'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Gardener sounds good. Or Scientist. Or Blimp Pilot, or Ice Cream flavor inventor...
    Erik is right, there are no end of interesting things.
  created: '2007-02-23 22:52:53'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Good grief indeed! That photo has made my day, Chris!  :-D
  created: '2007-02-24 01:17:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Glad to help! Now if you pay me 5 cents Ricardo, I can pay Patty what I owe
    her :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-24 02:11:47'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "An architect (after my foundation year at college, I had to make a choice
    between becoming an artist/designer or architect).\r\n\r\nOtherwise I would be...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/peimei_2_3953.jpg]a
    Kung Fu Master."
  created: '2007-02-24 03:02:17'
- author:
    name: mjpatrick
    picture: 111908
  body: "I worked in a psychiatric hospital for 6 years- no joke. That was somewhat
    different than scheduled appointments in an outpatient psychiatric setting, but
    similar in some aspects as well. I worked with people on all different functioning
    levels, running groups, 1:1 counseling, verbal/physical intervention, etc.\r\n\r\nI
    got burned out and did a career change in my early 20s. I have no desire to go
    back to psyche in any capacity- it wouldn't be right anyway, because my heart's
    not in it any longer. I do think the experience has helped me be a better designer
    on a psychological aspect- I'm pretty good at getting a feel for what clients
    will like... it's hard to explain so briefly here.\r\n\r\nIf I weren't an illustrator,
    I'd want to be a rock star. Get up on stage and deafen myself as I pound the crap
    out of my instrument and then go drink beer after the show. Maybe run off with
    some adoring fan. I say this because I thought working with type would be similar,
    and man what a let down that has been. :)\r\n\r\nIf I couldn't be the rock star
    and needed to get something a little more \"down to earth\", I'd go into sales."
  created: '2007-02-24 03:27:41'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "During college I worked as a bag boy in a supermarket. After about a year,
    I told the store manager I wanted to quit, that I was going to pursue a career
    in art. He urged me to reconsider, that I a guy like me could go far in the grocery
    business, that I was throwing away a good opportunity. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/emptyshelves_4696.jpg]"
  created: '2007-02-24 05:27:53'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> I can\u2019t imagine not doing something that doesn\u2019t involve design,
    \r\n> so perhaps the \u201Cright\u201D answer is dead.\r\n\r\nLinda, do you live
    to design or design to live?\r\n\r\n\r\n> A gardener. They don\u2019t need upgrades,
    validation, registration numbers \r\nand don\u2019t expire in 2 years and decompose
    on their own.\r\n\r\n__ A gardener. They don\u2019t need Typophies, validation,
    registration members \r\nand do multiply in 2 years and don\u2019t decompose in
    town. \r\n\r\nVinceconnare, we need a quick change of direction?!"
  created: '2007-02-24 05:29:59'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Aziz, what do you mean by 'Designer'?\r\n\r\n'Cause I understand 'Designer'
    as one who can communicate - and one who can communicate in many different disciplines
    is one as valid(?) as one who can communicate in a single discipline ie. Type.\r\n\r\nI'm
    a grad of the Frank Lloyd Wright school of architecture, (only because it was
    the lesser of all evils), and I have dabbled in fashion design, graphic design,
    and industrial design. Unfortunately, and with deep regret, I only got a grip
    on the design of Type a year or so ago.\r\n\r\nAz man, if I couldn't design -
    I would die of a broken heart - serious.\r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n
    \ \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-24 07:07:33'
- author:
    name: Jason Walcott
    picture: 111068
  body: I'd be a pole dancer.
  created: '2007-02-24 07:57:41'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> Aziz, what do you mean by \u2018Designer\u2019?\r\n\r\n* Hiroshige, All
    the above-mentioned + the One who does <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/29416?from=55&comments_per_page=02\">Construction+Deconstruction+Destruction
    with XXX?!</a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-24 13:22:59'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: I'd probably be either a filmmaker/animator or an illustrator/artist.
  created: '2007-02-24 15:23:28'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Actually, I wasn't kidding about the <em>Kung Fu Master</em> answer, though
    I did forget to mention <em>teacher</em>.\r\n\r\nFor me art, design, typography,
    calligraphy, martial arts (I've studied nearly fifteen years traditional Japanese
    and Chinese martial arts with asian masters) and teaching are all part of <em>being</em>...
    and each one shares or infuses meaning into the others.\r\n\r\nThough not typically
    connected in Western thought, becoming a master swordsman or calligrapher was
    not seen as very different from an <em>Eastern</em> viewpoint.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hero_combo_3516.png]"
  created: '2007-02-24 15:53:00'
- author:
    name: fernandoLins
  body: Music producer or DJ. Or a Chemist. I did study one year of chemical engineering
    before quiting it to start in graphic design.
  created: '2007-02-24 15:56:45'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Aziz, you wrote <em>Linda, do you live to design or design to live?</em>\r\n\r\nProbably
    both.  ;-)  After having a career as a successful writer and broadcaster, I trained
    and practiced as an interior designer in NYC, and combined the two by doing pretty
    much everything in PR, marketing, communications and publications design -- for
    \"fun\", I did \"craft.\"\r\n\r\nThen I went back to graduate school to do a Masters
    in Environmental Design and started exploring a lot more of the graphic/typography
    side of wayfinding and how we interact with our world.  Now I've brought that
    part of me together with the craft side to design and bind books.\r\n\r\nAnd write
    a little.\r\n\r\nTerry, you wrote <em>I\u2019d probably be either a filmmaker/animator
    or an illustrator/artist.</em> \r\n\r\nDoesn't count, man: that's still \"design.\"
    \ ;-)"
  created: '2007-02-24 17:38:17'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Musician. Oh wait, I already tried that\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-02-24 17:53:47'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "@ Paul,\r\nvery good humor, indeed. :-)\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-24 20:18:42'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I\u2019d probably be either a filmmaker/animator or an illustrator/artist.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    know Linda will object to 2/3 of my answer (and rightly so!), but it is pretty
    close to Terry's: If I weren't a designer, I would perhaps be a filmmaker, an
    illustrator, or a writer.\r\n\r\n<em>Now if you pay me 5 cents Ricardo, I can
    pay Patty what I owe her.</em>\r\n\r\nHere ya go, Chris. :-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/buffalo_nickel_4606.jpg]"
  created: '2007-02-24 23:14:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ricardo, that is a beaut! a 1935 Indian head nichol!\r\n\r\nWell Patty, I
    guess it belongs to you now :-) I'll be in New York next weekend to get my head
    shrunk ( by Maxim Zhukov).\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-25 02:35:18'
- body: "<a href=\"http://mavpenia.sitesfree.com/victorian-trading-co.html\">victorian
    trading co</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://mavpenia.sitesfree.com/paces-trading-company.html\">paces
    trading company</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://mavpenia.sitesfree.com/oriential-trading-company.html\">oriential
    trading company</a>"
  created: '2007-02-25 02:44:04'
- body: "<a href=\"http://sasads.teracities.com/bay-trading-company.html\">bay trading
    company</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://sasads.teracities.com/movie-trading-company.html\">movie
    trading compan</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://sasads.teracities.com/stock-trading-company.html\">stock
    trading company</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://sasads.teracities.com/oriental-trading-company.html\">oriental
    trading company</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://sasads.teracities.com/trade-company.html\">trade
    company</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://zloy.sitesfree.com/outback-trading-company.html\">outback
    trading company</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://zloy.sitesfree.com/index.html\">oriental
    trading company</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://zloy.sitesfree.com/trade-trading.html\">trade
    trading</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://zloy.sitesfree.com/east-india-trading-company.html\">east
    india trading company</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://zloy.sitesfree.com/stock-trading-company.html\">stock
    trading company</a>"
  created: '2007-02-25 02:44:39'
- body: "<a href=\"http://vadoss.teracities.com/rx-pharmacy.html \">rx pharmacy</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://vadoss.teracities.com/vicodin-online-pharmacy.html\">vicodin online
    pharmacy</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://vadoss.teracities.com/adderall-online-pharmacy.html\">adderall
    online pharmacy</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://vadoss.teracities.com/xanax-online-pharmacy.html\">xanax
    online pharmac</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://vadoss.teracities.com/hydrocodone-pharmacy.html\">hydrocodone
    pharmacy</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://vadoss.teracities.com/phentermine-pharmacy.html\">phentermine
    pharmacy</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://vadoss.teracities.com/pharmacy-drug-store.html\">pharmacy
    drug store</a>"
  created: '2007-02-25 02:44:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here we go again with the SPAM botts!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-25 02:48:15'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Yup. By the way, Chris, that nickel was brought to you courtesy of Wikipedia...  :-)
  created: '2007-02-25 03:33:27'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Q. If You were not Designer, What would you be?\r\n\r\nA. A Designer. I've
    tried otherwise, to no avail. I wake up seeing things that could exist, but don't.
    I go to sleep visualizing methods that aren't yet applied. I sit there at the
    computer creating images that never before were seen. I write, I design games,
    I sketch workflows, I design. If I were not a designer, would I be at all?"
  created: '2007-02-25 05:51:18'
- body: Life without design?   I'd be a homeless drunk ... perhaps in the peace corps,
    if they'd have me.
  created: '2007-02-25 06:28:57'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "tightrope walker\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-25 07:52:05'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "mjpatrick:\r\n<cite>then go drink beer after the show.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    kind of rock star is that?! Boy, you'd best start your drinkin' earlier than that.
    Keith Moon, John Bonham and others wouldn't lead you astray, would they?\r\n\r\nIf
    I wasn't a designer, I'd be an a)unemployed photographer b)unemployed writer c)unemployed
    musician or d)unemployed painter.\r\n\r\nAlms to the poor?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-25 08:55:44'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/python2_6631.jpg]"
  created: '2007-02-25 08:56:17'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "ChuckGroth > Tightrope walker\r\nJason Walcott> I\u2019d be a pole dancer.\r\n\r\nTwist
    + Turn = One walks like a cat and one moves like a fish?!\r\nDie-Hard Requirements
    = High Skills + Well-Engineered Body?!"
  created: '2007-02-25 11:21:14'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Doesn\u2019t count, man: that\u2019s still \u201Cdesign.\u201D ;-)</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    certainly ain't the same as I have discovered! I have a Bachelor's degree in TV/Film
    with a minor in Fine Arts. I went back and got my Master's in graphic design.
    \r\n\r\nThey can certainly cross paths...but they are very different. My Bachelor's
    degree led me to a life of selling guitar strings and restaurant daily specials.\r\n\r\nSo,
    they are all \"creative\" fields...but the path to making a living...they are
    quite unequal. As much as I like design...sometimes I wonder what would have happened
    if I got my Master's in Illustration. :)"
  created: '2007-02-25 18:19:44'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "In response to Miss Tiffany - I think I'd like to be a grouper.\r\n\r\nOh
    wait, I already tried that\u2026 :)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-02-25 18:26:00'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "> mjpatrick:\r\n> then go drink beer after the show.\r\n\r\n> What kind of
    rock star is that?! Boy, you\u2019d best start your drinkin\u2019 earlier than
    that.\r\n\r\nActually a truly professional alcoholic (oops I mean musician) doesn't
    start until one hour before the show - you want people to see you on the way up,
    not the way down.\r\n\r\nThen after the show it's time to get serious\u2026 :)\r\n\r\nAfter
    all there are things in hotel rooms that need smashing.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-02-25 18:31:25'
- author:
    name: gabssnake
    picture: 111641
  body: "frustrated.\r\nThen after realizing I still have to find money and something
    that invades my spare time, I would so go for the average superhero.\r\nI don't
    really consider the cape as necessary but honestly, it would be one of my first
    investments.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n__________________________________________________\r\nwww.gabssnake.4t.com"
  created: '2007-02-25 20:32:33'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Spam has no power here. :^P '
  created: '2007-02-25 23:11:26'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: a pole dancer? the more i think about it, i would probably be a somnabulist...
  created: '2007-02-26 03:13:20'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: oh, wait. i already am. at least in the last client meeting.
  created: '2007-02-26 03:13:56'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Actually a truly professional alcoholic (oops I mean musician) doesn\u2019t
    start until one hour before the show - you want people to see you on the way up,
    not the way down.\r\n\r\nThen after the show it\u2019s time to get serious\u2026
    :)</em>\r\n\r\nUnless your name is Robert Pollard, in which case you drink your
    beer onstage <strong>during</strong> the show, too!  :-P"
  created: '2007-02-26 04:53:16'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "filthy rich. or a farmer maybe. or even better, a filthy rich farmer.\r\n.........................................................\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bisondesign.no\">Bison Design</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myspace.com/sponnorway\">Sp\xF6n</a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-26 09:25:52'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: I would be a serial killer or a crack dealer. Dream on...
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: geez, that makes me wonder how many killers out there are really just frustrated
      designers...
    created: '2007-02-26 17:10:20'
  created: '2007-02-26 17:01:21'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Hitler was a frustrated artist... not to mention John Wayne Gacy.
  created: '2007-02-26 17:15:50'
- author:
    name: snsr
    picture: 112158
  body: I'd go to ship building school.
  created: '2007-02-26 19:20:59'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/KillerEyes_4047.gif]'
  created: '2007-02-26 19:33:20'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Artist - I majored in fine art. \r\n\r\nOr, a welder - It paid better."
  created: '2007-02-26 23:00:30'
- author:
    name: ms. pater
    picture: 112138
  body: architect or illustrator
  created: '2007-02-27 00:38:39'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: Actually designers are frustrated killers...not the other way round. ;)
  created: '2007-02-27 13:25:35'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Thank you lore\r\n\r\nThat explains the trail of dead bodies...."
  created: '2007-02-27 13:39:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Seems like a \"Murder She Wrote\" series where Angela Landsbury just happens
    across a murder every week in a little new England town and nobody asks why :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-27 13:47:09'
- author:
    name: mjpatrick
    picture: 111908
  body: "<cite>What kind of rock star is that?! Boy, you\u2019d best start your drinkin\u2019
    earlier than that. Keith Moon, John Bonham and others wouldn\u2019t lead you astray,
    would they?</cite>\r\n\r\nAfter the right amount of Grey Goose, I usually start
    swinging the Les Paul around like it was wet lettuce, now that I think about it...!"
  created: '2007-02-28 01:43:10'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "I'm listening to an interview with Nobel Prizewinner <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harold_Kroto\">Harold
    Kroto</a>. He says that he really wants to be a designer. \r\n\r\nHow about that
    then?\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-02-28 02:58:08'
- author:
    name: Jason Walcott
    picture: 111068
  body: "<cite>Actually designers are frustrated killers\u2026not the other way round.
    ;)</cite>\r\n\r\nThank lore for your insightful comment! No <em>wonder</em> my
    kitchen cabinets are filled with fava beans and bottles of Chianti. "
  created: '2007-02-28 04:27:10'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Just for the 2 Typophiles who wanted to be rock stars?!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Rock_3496.gif]"
  created: '2007-02-28 05:28:31'
- author:
    name: andrew_baker
    picture: 110232
  body: Maybe a stunt man, or a hot dog eating champion.
  created: '2007-03-01 15:30:12'
date: '2007-02-23 06:23:52'
title: If You were not Designer, What would you be?

---
