---
author:
  name: evilfansanfran
body: "Any tips / simple suggestions for formatting a resume?\r\n\r\nI have a short
  resume I'm about to send out thats roughly a page and a half.  I have set it in
  Univers.\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "This might give you some food for thought.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.lifeclever.com/2006/09/26/the-7-deadly-sins-of-resume-design/\">The
    7 Deadly Sins of Resume Design</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.lifeclever.com/2006/10/24/give-your-resume-a-face-lift/\">Give
    Your Resume a Face Lift</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://formerslacker.com/blog/2007/02/08/9-resume-tips-that-should-be-screechingly-obvious-but-apparently-arent/\">
    9 Resume Tips That Should Be Obvious, But Apparently Aren't</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.rockportinstitute.com/resumes.html\">How
    to Write a Masterpiece of a Resume</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.randsinrepose.com/archives/2007/02/25/a_glimpse_and_a_hook.html\">How
    \ to Make an Impression with your Resume in 30 Seconds</a>\r\n\r\nFixed Link:
    <a href=\"http://www.aiga.org/content.cfm/resume-common-mistakes\">10 Common Mistakes
    in Resumes and Cover Letters</a> link credit: <a href=\"http://typophile.com/user/7716>Ricardo
    Cordoba</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.colum.edu/Administrative_offices/Advising/PDF_folder/Resumebook.pdf\">Columbia
    College: Writing Resumes, Cover Letters, and other Essential Materials</a> :Direct
    link to PDF, link credit: <a href=\"http://typophile.com/user/10612\">Michael
    Kostal</a>"
  created: '2007-02-26 20:24:56'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I have a short resume I\u2019m about to send out thats roughly a page and
    a half.\"\r\n\r\nI'd recommend that you keep it to a page.\r\n\r\nWhere are you
    sending it too? A person? An HR department? \r\n\r\nThe typical advice is to keep
    it simple, don't 'over design' it, make it readable, and make it one page.\r\n\r\nThat
    said, in certain cases (namely large corporate HR departments), you may need to
    toss in a bunch of keywords to get by the resume filtering software.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-26 20:30:55'
- author:
    name: Frank Finnegan
  body: "I'm probably stating the obvious here, but remember that 'R\xE9sum\xE9' has
    accents over both 'e' characters."
  created: '2007-02-26 21:05:03'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Here is the template I've used for my friends' resumes over the years. Always
    seems to get them the job. (I guess the fact that I have talented friends doesn't
    hurt.) I think it's best to keep it to one page. Don't be afraid to use columns
    for space efficiency and readability. The type is in <a href=\"http://flickr.com/photos/stewf/376074014/\">Freight</a>.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sjc_resume_5464.gif]"
  created: '2007-02-26 21:20:54'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Nice work, Mr. Coles!
  created: '2007-02-27 00:33:37'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: From the AIGA, <strong><a href="http://www.aiga.org/content.cfm?ContentID=150"
    target="_blank">Ten common mistakes in resumes and cover letters</a></strong>
  created: '2007-02-27 00:37:16'
- author:
    name: DRR
  body: "I searched this Typophile for resume threads to find some nice examples.
    Once I developed a feel for what a good resume looks like, I designed my own.\r\n\r\nDon't
    neglect design of the cover letter, follow-up letter, references list, and so
    on. You'll make a better impression if everything works together."
  created: '2007-02-27 01:02:35'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I don't see the need for \"Relevant\" - if it isn't relevant why include
    it in the first place? I'm also not wild about \"Personal Skills\" I think resumes
    should be just the facts ma'am.\r\n\r\nDefinitely keep it to a page. Feels padded
    otherwise. I sometimes attach a list of books I've designed (I'm a book designer)
    to the resume but the main resume itself fits on a page - even w/20 yrs experience. "
  created: '2007-02-27 02:11:30'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: You bring up a good point, Patty. You should tailor a new version of your
    resume for each new job app. In this sense, including the word "relevant" might
    be a little unnecessary.
  created: '2007-02-27 02:20:18'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: 'I''ve read in resume books that you only need to include the word "relevant"
    if, for example, you''ve worked in different fields and therefore need to exclude
    jobs that don''t pertain to your current job search. '
  created: '2007-02-27 05:09:44'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>the main resume itself fits on a page - even w/20 yrs experience</em>\r\n\r\nWow,
    Patty, that's admirable!"
  created: '2007-02-27 05:12:35'
- author:
    name: evilfansanfran
  body: "awesome tips.  thank you all very much.\r\n\r\nI'm just applying for an internship.\r\n\r\ne"
  created: '2007-02-27 09:43:31'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "Nice work Stephen. Sherry is lucky to have such a nice resume.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    you should be using small caps for some things.\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt : http://www.hewnandhammered.com"
  created: '2007-02-27 18:19:13'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Haha. Like CA or E.I.T.? I dunno.
  created: '2007-02-27 18:58:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Since I have 45 years of experience, fitting it \"all\" in is a bitch, so
    I don't. I just detail the more current stuff and include a generalized brief
    paragraph sumary of the rest. I leave out the stuff where I helped Ben Franklin
    set type and that Summer internship with Homer doing layouts for the first edition
    of The Odyssey (he couldn't see his way to paying me so I left. In his eyes, it
    was a case of the blind leading the blind).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-27 19:34:53'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: '<a href="http://www.randsinrepose.com/archives/2007/02/25/a_glimpse_and_a_hook.html">Here</a>''s
    one take on how resumes are read that you might find helpful. '
  created: '2007-02-27 19:39:01'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I'm not quite your age, Chris, but I too leave out some of the older stuff.\r\n\r\nLike
    the winter I helped Gutenberg with his en- and em-dashes and the pages of illustrations
    I did for The Book of Kells.... "
  created: '2007-02-27 19:42:42'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Stephen, I noticed a small grammar problem in Sherry's resume. May I suggest
    changing \"Graphical Design in OpenGL\" to \"Graphical User Interface Design in
    OpenGL\" or \"GUI Design in OpenGL\". That is, unless she actually designed graphs
    in OpenGL.\r\n\r\nI know its nit-picky. \r\n\r\nI do love the informal professional
    feel of your layout, it doesn't have that rigid/cold feel most black and white
    resumes have. Excellent font choice. \r\n\r\nYou sir, are a Font Savant! "
  created: '2007-02-27 20:05:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I'll bet old Gut' sure looked dashing in 'em days Linda :-P\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-27 20:32:38'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Nah, he wasn't my type....  ;-)
  created: '2007-02-27 20:38:08'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Some great info here folks. Makes me want to update mine...
  created: '2007-02-27 21:21:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You just had not found him justified to your measure :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-27 22:15:30'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: I listened to his pitch, but as much as he pressed, he never got to the point.  To
    cap it off, he was kind of lower cas(t)e....  ;-)
  created: '2007-02-27 22:48:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess his front didn't matter then.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-02-27 23:28:37'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: lol.
  created: '2007-02-27 23:37:51'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Craig, that's a good link.\r\n\r\nI never reacted well to \"Objective\" or
    \"Summary of qualifications\" or overly descriptive text in a resume. Nothing
    that smacks too much of self-promotion or filler. I want a concise job history
    with relevant (but not the word) responsibilities listed - ideally in bullet points.
    Education history, skills (software, foreign languages), awards are important
    too.\r\n\r\nRe keeping it to one page - yeah, just edit the older stuff down to
    a line or two. \r\n\r\nYou can see the web version of mine at http://www.pattyfab.com
    if you want (click on Contact in the navigation) or download the pdf version if
    it would be helpful."
  created: '2007-02-28 01:06:00'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "I'm with Patty on much of what she's suggested. \"Relevant\" is a dead giveaway
    that you're feeling awkward about your experience, and even if you <em>are</em>
    feeling awkward, that's the last thing you want to convey. Same goes for \"personal\"
    skills or anything along those lines. When I discuss r\xE9sum\xE9 writing & formatting
    in class my foundation rule is to avoid, at all costs, claims of any kind. \"I'm
    good with Photoshop.\" \"6 years experience with InDesign.\" \"If given the oportunity
    I will...\" Crap, crap, crap. Like Patty pointed towards, <em>prove it</em> by
    listing <em>what you've actually done</em>. That said, don't let your r\xE9sum\xE9
    turn into a data file, it needs just a touch of personality (both in the design
    and the copy writing), but good writing and design are subtle (this isn't adverting,
    even if it is).\r\n\r\nAs for one page, I don't know about that. Mine's 9 pages
    long, and depending on the position/contract I'm going for I tend to edit it down
    to just the \"relevant\" stuff, which is still usually 5+ pages. While that first
    page has to do a lot of the work (almost all of it), one page always feels light
    to me. That said, if you've got a client list like Patty's, you don't need much
    else.\r\n\r\n[Patty, you're stuff is too good to be represented by squooshed and
    pixelated graphics on your site. Kick your developer (or yourself) in the behind
    and reformat those graphics so that they display at their real size.]"
  created: '2007-02-28 01:28:59'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I know its nit-picky.</em>\r\n\r\nNit-picky is the name of the game.
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nJason, I agree with most of what you say; likewise with you, Patty.
    The resume is supposed to sell what you do best, etc. That said, my resume is
    2 pages long (gasp!), and on the second page I do list which software programs
    I know and how long I've been using them. First and foremost is what I've done,
    though -- work experience and studies. I don't list references or bother to have
    a line that says they are available upon request. People know that stuff.\r\n\r\nAs
    for the \"glimpse and a hook\" article, that's the first time I've ever heard
    someone say they don't want a cover letter! Cover letters are supposed to show
    taht you, um, like, know how to communicate and stuff.  ;-D"
  created: '2007-02-28 01:53:42'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Jason - thanks. The person who did my site (not me) didn't know much about
    the nuts and bolts of web programming although I like the way it's designed. I'm
    gearing up to re-do it one of these days soon. But I'm not sure what you mean
    by squooshed and pixelated graphics - can you be more specific?
  created: '2007-02-28 02:22:56'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Perhaps he means that you should consider using GIF rather than JPEG for
    your type-based and flat colored images -- like your logo and name on the front
    page. JPEG tends to create artifacts and noise in these types of images.\r\n\r\nAnother
    problem is that it can take quite a bit of time to load all those wonderful images
    on one page (page 2). The covers should probably be split up between multiple
    pages, or at least be preceded by a preloader. \r\n\r\nBut we're digressing from
    the r\xE9sum\xE9 discussion."
  created: '2007-02-28 02:28:50'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>But we\u2019re digressing from the r\xE9sum\xE9 discussion.</em>\r\n\r\nGee,
    like we never digress from topics here....  ;-)"
  created: '2007-02-28 03:04:39'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "One more note on Patty's site (in case it might be useful to others). The
    bug is that the images in your site are squished to fit in your HTML code; that
    is, the code is specifying dimensions that are not correct. Thus, when the image
    displays in a browser it's getting squooshed (that's the technical term) and thus
    ends up looking pixelated.\r\n\r\nFor instance, here's one of your graphics cropped
    in half but at its real size (approx. 400x400 pixels):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bali_real_5751.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd
    here's what what it looks like on your site in my browser (your HTML code specifies
    the squooshed dimensions of 300x300 pixels):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bali_squooshed_3572.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;
    \r\n\r\nIt simply looks like your developer cut the corner of actually reformatting
    the images to the required size and instead just packed and crammed them into
    position in the HTML.\r\n\r\nPart of the reason why the pages are so slow to download
    is that the image files are considerably larger (dimensions) than they need to
    be. If they were reformated to the correct dimensions, their files size would
    shrink quite a bit.\r\n\r\nAnd while Stephen is right about the JPG artifacts,
    if you balance the optimization settings they're easily avoidable.\r\n\r\n\r\nps.
    Thanks a lot for bringing this up Eddie, now I've gone in to pare down my CV and
    I'd forgotten how painful it is to put these things together."
  created: '2007-02-28 03:04:45'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Thanks all. It also explains why when I created new pages I was finding the
    images not matching the previous pages.\r\n\r\nI won't bogart this discussion
    anymore - but to ask one more question - if I were to manually reduce the jpegs
    to fit the 300 dpi the html calls for would they look better and load faster?
    Or do I need to get someone who knows their s**t to redo the code? I do know how
    to replace jpegs with gifs."
  created: '2007-02-28 03:27:33'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: Yes, reformat the images to fit the code and they'll look fine and load faster
    (make sure not to change any of the file names [including extensions] or locations).
    Your code may be off by a pixel or two here and there, but the images will still
    look a lot better than they do now.
  created: '2007-02-28 03:58:19'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Thanks again. If I can actually find the few hours to fix this snafu I will.
  created: '2007-02-28 04:18:49'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I won\u2019t bogart this discussion anymore - but to ask one more question
    - if I were to manually reduce the jpegs to fit the 300 dpi the html calls for\"\r\n\r\nJust
    to clarify, HTML doesn't call for any DPI setting. It's merely saying the image
    is 300 pixels x 300 pixels, so you want to make your actual image 300 x 300 pixels.
    DPI is irrelevant.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-28 16:49:15'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: Good point, sort of. DPI is, of course, relevant, because if the images were
    output as 300dpi JPGs then they're going to be squooshed in the HTML even more.
    I suppose I was assuming it obvious that graphics for web should be 72dpi, but
    the pixel dimenions of the graphics (in Patty's case) should match her HTML specs
    (eg. width="300" height="300").
  created: '2007-02-28 18:54:39'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "yes that's very important - patty, my web builders implored me to supply
    my images to them at the pixel size i wanted them seen - at 72dpi. (exactly as
    jason explained above).\r\n\r\nthis also allows you to optimize the images for
    the reduced size. in my more complex illustrations, for example, i reduce them
    to the required size, duplicate the layer, slightly blur the top layer, then reduce
    it to 50% transparency. flatten again. this allows the original \"bottom\" layer
    to dominate, but it slightly forgives and softens the pixelation produced by radical
    reduction.\r\n\r\ni do get into more specific tweaks but that's any easy formula
    for improved reductions."
  created: '2007-02-28 20:56:35'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "DPI has nothing...zero...zilch...nada...to do with web graphics.\r\n\r\nAll
    that matters is the pixel dimensions. A 300px * 300px image should be specified
    as such in the HTML. Whether it was saved at 72dpi or 1000dpi is irrelevant.\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "i'm sorry, aluminum, but i disagree. its relevant because dpi is part of
      the image data whether \"the web\" cares or not, and because the web is always
      72dpi, whether HTML knows it or not. dpi is part of rasterized imaging, regardless
      of platform, whether defined or not. 72dpi is the default for most familiar
      onscreen environemts.\r\n\r\npatty's web problem is the proof.\r\n\r\nher images
      were forced down to 300 pixels by HTML. the actual images are some other size
      when viewed at 72dpi, before involving HTML. The only way to make an HTML encoded
      graphic look lossless at 300 pixels is to supply it to the HTML at 300 pixels
      @ 72dpi. 1 to 1. no upsizing or downsizing, and defining 72dpi is part of that
      data, before it gets to HTML. any other dpi will result in interpolation of
      some kind, up or down.\r\n\r\nbelieve me, i've been through this by trial and
      error. quality control dictates defining size at 72dpi for originals destined
      for the web at non-original sizes."
    created: '2007-03-01 00:39:37'
  created: '2007-02-28 23:03:08'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Yes, OK, good clarification. But not everyone knows how to resample a graphic
    properly so that it displays at the desired pixel dimensions.\r\n\r\nYou can take
    a 300dpi (let's say 1780x1780px) graphic and downsample it to 72dpi, and it might
    still be 1780x1780px. If you squoosh that graphic into your HTML with specs of
    300x300px, you end up with the right display size, but the file size is larger
    than necessary and (as in Patty's case) the image looks crappy. I'm not saying
    this is the right thing to do (it's the <em>wrong</em> thing to do), but many
    make this mistake.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, you can resample that same 300dpi
    (1780x1780px) graphic down to 300x300px and leave it at 300dpi and you'll be good
    to go. No squooshing, file size is reduced, all good. Just don't try to use that
    one in print cause it'll only be one square inch.\r\n\r\nThe problem, in my experience,
    is that many folks do the former, or screw up the latter, and end up with graphics
    that are not the correct dimensions and/or resolution for their website, and the
    result is often similar to what Patty has run into."
  created: '2007-03-01 00:34:12'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: Actually Chris, while I was following your line of reasoning as well, Darrel
    (aluminum) is technically right. <a href="http://www.greenboathouse.com/misc/dpi.html"
    target="_blank">Check out this page</a> as an example and you'll see that a 72dpi
    and 300dpi image display exactly the same, with or without width & height attributes,
    so long as the graphics are formatted to 300x300px.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "well that's pretty cool but my own eyes have seen otherwise in hands-on
      situations.\r\n\r\nperhaps there are other variables ? and what's going on in
      patty's case ?"
    created: '2007-03-01 01:48:41'
  created: '2007-03-01 01:39:36'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I meant to say pixels, not dpi. I know web graphics should be prepared at
    72 dpi. But I come from print so I'm used to thinking/talking in terms of dpi
    not in pixels.\r\n\r\nSorry if this caused confusion - my mistake.\r\n\r\nBut
    I didn't realize that the html coding in my site (which again I did not do) was
    forcing larger images into smaller frames or I'd have dealt with that sooner.
    As mentioned above I did run into confusion when I was trying to create new pages
    and the graphics were showing up at a different size. "
  created: '2007-03-01 04:07:37'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"i\u2019m sorry, aluminum, but i disagree.\"\r\n\r\nThis isn't an opinion
    issue. It's just how it is. ;o)\r\n\r\nDPI is simply a setting that some desktop
    publishing products use to figure out default output if not otherwise specified.
    \r\n\r\nFor instance, if you set your DPI in photoshop, it will change the PRINT
    size if you print directly from photoshop. It doesn't change the number of pixels.\r\n\r\nSave
    that image as a  GIF or JPG to put it online, and the DPI info is gone and not
    needed, as the web doesn't have any use for it. \r\n\r\n\"dpi is part of the image
    data whether \u201Cthe web\u201D cares or not, and because the web is always 72dpi\"\r\n\r\nThe
    web isn't any DPI. If anything it's measured in PPI (pixels per inch) and that
    varies from monitor to monitor and computer to computer.\r\n\r\nBrowsers may default
    to 72 or 92 DPI for printing a page, but, again, that's a browser setting and
    isn't anything related to your images. Browsers will also use default DPI settings
    to interpret type sizes, but it's not a direct correlation to a real inch in any
    shape or form (so only adds to the confusion).\r\n\r\n\"quality control dictates
    defining size at 72dpi for originals destined for the web at non-original sizes.\"\r\n\r\nTry
    it. Save a 300x300 JPG and 1000dpi and at 50 dpi. Put them both on yoru web page.
    What do you see? \r\n\r\n\"But I come from print so I\u2019m used to thinking/talking
    in terms of dpi not in pixels.\"\r\n\r\nRight. DPI is a print concept. Toss it
    out the window when doing your web stuff. As you can see, it only confuses folks.
    ;o)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "okay i bow to your expertise, tentatively...  but why does an original
      300x300 image at 300dpi look fine but the same image 300x300 at 72 dpi look
      crappy ?\r\ni'm talking on-screen. print isn't even part of the workflow.\r\n\r\nhow
      could the conversion NOT involve interpolation ?\r\n\r\ni don't come from print.
      i come from motion graphics. my life is on-screen, at 72 dpi.\r\ni use lots
      of hi-res photoshop generated images, and dpi is a big part of the process and
      concern.\r\n"
    created: '2007-03-01 17:08:31'
  created: '2007-03-01 15:48:18'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"but why does an original 300x300 image at 300dpi look fine but the same
    image 300x300 at 72 dpi look crappy ?\r\ni\u2019m talking on-screen.\"\r\n\r\nI
    don't know what that is in reference too, but those two images would be exatly
    the same on screen.\r\n\r\n\"how could the conversion NOT involve interpolation
    ?\"\r\n\r\nThere is no conversion. There is still the exact same number of pixels
    in each image.\r\n\r\nPatty's issue was that a 300x300 image was set in the HTML
    to view at 200x200. Browsers dont' resize images very well, so doing that results
    in lesser quality than if you had resized the image to 200x200 in image editing
    software.\r\n\r\n\"i don\u2019t come from print. i come from motion graphics.
    my life is on-screen, at 72 dpi.\"\r\n\r\nNo it's not. It's on screen as a pixel.
    ;0)\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "okay i must be living in an alternate universe. every engineer i've ever
      depended on in 15 years of motion graphics production has agreed with me - taught
      me - that NTSC video is the equivalent of 72dpi. it's a functional equivalent,
      useful because so much of our material comes from graphics apps like photoshop.
      sometimes we prefer not to let the compositing software do the interpolation
      for us, but sometimes we do. it's case specific.\r\n\r\nthese dpi models have
      guided the work of me and my collegues for as long as i can remember. the advent
      of HD is a big headache for us, as there are so many more pixels to address
      \"at 72 dpi\"."
    created: '2007-03-01 17:30:26'
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: ">>but why does an original 300x300 image at 300dpi look fine but the same
      image >>300x300 at 72 dpi look crappy ? i\u2019m talking on-screen.\u201D\r\n>>I
      don\u2019t know what that is in reference too, but those two images would be
      exatly \r\n>>the same on screen.\r\n\r\n\r\nokay i'm saying dpi becasue that's
      what my photoshop calls it. but it's really ppi.\r\nand 300 ppi is way more
      information than 72 ppi. the pixel dimensions (300x300) are \"the same\" but
      one is native to the screen format (72dpi) and the other is forcing interpolation
      (300dpi). broadcast tv is the functional equivalent of 72 ppi. \r\n\r\nso that's
      why dpi remains relevant to me, even though my work output remains \r\n\"on
      screen\". my head is spinning. all i know is i have to deal with this everyday
      \r\nand the results are what matters. i get results by keeping dpi in the mix,
      \r\neven though technically it's really ppi and even though the work never goes
      to print. \r\n\r\ni certainly respect your expertise and i hereby officially
      relinquish any such claim.\r\nperhaps i've been laboring under an elaborate
      and unecessary work-around.\r\nbut your explanation, while \"technically\"correct,
      still doesn't explain what i have to deal with, and what i suspect was the reason
      patty's images were crunchy on her site."
    created: '2007-03-01 17:52:24'
  created: '2007-03-01 17:15:41'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "This is a subject that makes me cry and reminds me of how bad I am with numbers.
    I had both my boss and a co-worker sit me down not that long ago and help me understand
    the difference. I still don't fully grasp it. I live in a dpi print based world.
    But apparently the web doesn't care about dpi, only pixels.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.tildefrugal.net/photo/dpi.php\">DPI
    and PPI Explained</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://photo.net/learn/resize/\">Display, Printing,
    dpi and ppi</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fotofinish.com/resources/centers/photo/resolution.htm\">Understanding
    Resolution</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://ezinearticles.com/?The-Difference-Between-DPI-and-PPI&id=240819\">The
    Difference Between DPI and PPI</a>"
  created: '2007-03-01 17:27:54'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "Darrel, thank you.  The light just came on for me when you wrote that it's
    on screen as a pixel.  \r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nSharon\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "i think a yet-unstated part of the issue is that the monitors we use have
      a pixel per inch.\r\n\r\nmy understanding is that NTSC broadcast monitors are
      the functional equivalent of 72dpi."
    created: '2007-03-01 17:33:34'
  created: '2007-03-01 17:31:09'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "... and now that we have HD television all those old commercials are going
    to look like interpolated crap. As well as opening yet another can of worms. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-01 18:20:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The problem with both video and web is that there is no absolute like an
    inch to go by.  It is like units in type. A typical font is drawn at either 1000
    or 2048 units. The same number of units exist no matter what the type size is.
    The output device determines how much of this information it can output but it
    can't change the number of units. A pixel is like a unit which can be bigger or
    smaller depending on the device it is viewed on. I can take my single monitor
    and change its resolution to several pixel depths. This will enlarge or shrink
    the pixel as well as cut off or add more image in the viewable area. What you
    like to call an inch is actually a variable that follows pixel resolution of the
    viewing device.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-01 18:33:42'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"NTSC video is the equivalent of 72dpi\"\r\n\r\nyea, that's technically
    incorrect. NTSC is simply a pixel dimention. It's not equivalent to any DPI.\r\n\r\nWhat
    might be confusing is that a lot of DTP software defaults to assuming 72dpi =
    100% on screen. This was only technically true when the first Macs came out (when
    monitors were roughly only 72ppi). It hasn't been true since, but software still
    uses it.\r\n\r\nFor instance, if you set an image to 72dpi in Photoshop and then
    tell photoshop to display it on screen at 100% you'll get actual size in pixels.
    Changing the DPI in photoshop won't affect the pixel dimensions of the software,
    but will change the 100% view in photoshop. Perhaps video editing software adopted
    that long ago and never let go."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: ">>\u201CNTSC video is the equivalent of 72dpi\u201D\r\n\r\nokay at this
      point i just have say i mean FUNCTIONAL and not TECHNICAL.\r\nthere's a big
      difference. \r\n\r\ni still have to work according to this 72dpi maxim. obviously
      i'm not an engineer.\r\n\r\nthe engineering explanation makes my head spin but
      the 72dpi assumption \r\ngets my job done ! that's all i can say."
    created: '2007-03-01 18:52:21'
  created: '2007-03-01 18:44:23'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"my understanding is that NTSC broadcast monitors are the functional equivalent
    of 72dpi.\"\r\n\r\nNTCS = 484 vertical lines. I know not all of those lines are
    availble on screen, but for this, we'll assume they are.\r\n\r\nFor the screen
    to truly be 72dpi, it'd have to be 484/72 = 6.72\" high. Any screen larger than
    that would be less than 72dpi and any screen smaller than that would be more than
    72dpi. Same pixels. Just less or more per inch.\r\n\r\n\"and 300 ppi is way more
    information than 72 ppi\"\r\n\r\nNot at all. It's just a different setting in
    the images meta information. What matters is the number of pixels. A 1000dpi 300x300
    image and a 72dpi 300x300 image both have exactly the same amount of image data:
    90,000 pixels.\r\n\r\nEDIT: I can see the confusion. Your above statement is correct,
    300ppi is more information than 72ppi. What you are confused about, though, is
    that the image on the screen doesn't have any ppi settings. It's simply a bumch
    of pixels. PPI is a measurment of screen pixel density...not a measurment of anything
    displayed on it. DPI is a measurement of print dot density...not a measurement
    of the electronic files that are being printed."
  created: '2007-03-01 18:50:09'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: RESSSSUMAYYYYZZZZzzz z z z . . .
  created: '2007-03-01 18:53:13'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"i still have to work according to this 72dpi maxim.\"\r\n\r\nIs this a
    setting in your video editing software? Which software is this? I find it to be
    an odd setting and now I'm curious... ;o)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "yes apologies to the moderator. we really did get diverted. somebody started
      talking about patty's web images. may i continue ...or can we dissect this thread
      into two ?\r\nwhat is the appropriate protocol for a big new discussion on a
      thread in which the original question was addressed and then diverted ?\r\n\r\n>>Is
      this a setting in your video editing software?\r\n\r\nno, it only exists in
      photoshop. i create graphics and import them into aftereffects.\r\nalmost always
      it's desirable to work at very high rez (600 dpi or higher) so that aftereffects
      can pan & scan or reduce as necessary. occasionally i have to work at a lower
      rez to avoid artifacts created in the video document such as unintentional moire
      patterns or banding in hi-rez gradations viewd in low-rez media. i always have
      to preview work on an NTSC monitor to see what it really looks like. the engineers
      i worked with back in the 90's consistently refered to NTSC as the functional
      eqivalent of 72dpi. perhaps they were just being kind and sparing me the more
      complex explanation.\r\n\r\nsometimes i have to take frame grabs from video
      back into photoshop for a promotional publication. they always come in at 72
      dpi at the video pixel dimensions.\r\nscreen snapshots on my mac also import
      into photoshop at 72 dpi with dimensions maintained.\r\n\r\nwhen i was prepping
      stills for my website, my web builders requested that i supply the images at
      the correct pixel dimensions at 72dpi (photoshop) to avoid any forced interpolation
      by resizing. i tested a few and saw noticable differences online, similar to
      the artifacts on patty's site that started this diversion, hence my advice that
      she follow the same guidelines."
    created: '2007-03-01 19:24:24'
  created: '2007-03-01 18:56:14'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Chris, I'm with ya; everything I'd learned led me to believe that it was
    all about dpi (72 v. 300, etc.), but Darrel's feedback pushed me to test what
    he was saying, and <a href=\"http://www.greenboathouse.com/misc/dpi.html\">the
    experiment</a> proved he was right. I still can't quite wrap my head around it,
    but the experiment means I don't really need to, the proof is there. I still know
    I can't use any of these graphics for print (unless I want to print the image
    really small), but this does mean I no longer have to resize my graphics (for
    web) in 2 stages (resample to 72dpi then resize the dimensions). Thanks, Darrel,
    for driving this one home.\r\n\r\nStephen (and Eddie), more than a hijack I think
    this thread has now totally changed direction. I apologize as I think I forced
    it down this other path (see below for link to new thread for this topic). Hopefully
    Eddie got some good feedback before the thing went screwy."
  created: '2007-03-01 19:28:42'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I think Stephen was hinting that we should start a new thread. Jason, would
    you do the honors? Make sure to include a link back to this thread. :^) Thanks!
  created: '2007-03-01 19:52:01'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Sure Tiff, here's the new thread:\r\n\r\n\"<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/31892\">Is
    dpi relevant to web graphics?</a>\""
  created: '2007-03-01 20:06:54'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Thanks, Jason.
  created: '2007-03-01 20:14:55'
- author:
    name: kostal
    picture: 111214
  body: "Columbia College (Chicago) has <a href = \"http://www.colum.edu/Administrative_offices/Advising/PDF_folder/Resumebook.pdf\">a
    handy pdf</a> on building resumes. \r\n\r\nI'm working on polishing mine as well.
    If anyone else has a link to their own resume or ones they admire that would be
    appreciated. Really!"
  created: '2007-03-02 07:05:31'
- author:
    name: smarks
    picture: 109688
  body: "If anyone here is still interested in discussing resumes, the links to the
    AIGA article given earlier didn't work. I've found a new link to the article:\r\n\r\n<p><a
    href=\"http://www.aiga.org/content.cfm/resume-common-mistakes\">Ten common mistakes
    in resumes and cover letters</a>"
  created: '2007-03-05 06:23:22'
- author:
    name: MaryAnn9990
    picture: 116051
  body: "Stephen, \r\nYour resume looks great, totally different design from everything
    I have seen thus far on the Internet or in the resume books. Love this one-page
    design even for more experienced workers; many folks have two pages but it takes
    so much time to read it all even in the best designed resumes. Also really like
    this very condensed space for skills and personal skills. Have one question: can
    I order this type of resume for myself? Do you have a website that I can order
    it from?\r\nThis resume is a great winner on all fronts!!\r\nThanks, \r\nmaryann9990"
  created: '2008-10-17 00:09:24'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Gosh, thanks, MaryAnn. I'm happy to send you a template but it's in InDesign
    which you may not have.
  created: '2008-10-17 06:06:20'
date: '2007-02-26 20:02:21'
node_type: forum
title: Resumes?

---
