---
author:
  name: Erik Fleischer
  picture: 111193
body: "I'm curious about the average typographic standards (or lack thereof) of newspapers
  in different countries.\r\n\r\nBelow is a scan of a clipping from a regional daily
  (\"Estado de Minas\", circulation just over 2 million). The image isn't very good,
  and even at 150% of the original size it's hard to see details (I tried tweaking
  contrast etc but that's about the best I could get), but I think there's more than
  enough there for a first appraisal.\r\n\r\nIt would be great to see other samples
  from around the world. Also, feel free to comment on this sample.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/clipping_5245.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "http://www.newseum.org/todaysfrontpages/\r\n\r\nCheck it out\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Erik Fleischer
      picture: 111193
    body: Thanks, Paul, but my goal was to start a discussion with people who actually
      touch their local paper and have an opinion about its typographic shortcomings
      -- or qualities (as opposed to discussing samples one can find online). What
      newspaper do you read, if any? Any comments on its typography?
    created: '2007-02-27 17:12:52'
  created: '2007-02-27 16:25:36'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "Well, I can comment on my recent redesign of my school's monthly paper. I
    ended up using Mercury Text Grade 2 for the body text (and Farnham Display for
    the headlines). Being a novice at news design and having just read Bringhurst,
    I decided to make the body text 9 pt on 11 pts leading. When I hear about news
    design nowadays, I often hear of much tighter spacing, usually between .5 pt to
    1 pt. \r\n\r\nAlthough my choice of 9 on 11 might have diminished our ability
    to put enough words on the page, it ultimately ended up to our benefit. The reason
    is that the generous leading significantly lightens the typographic color of the
    page, so publishing a page of largely text, without many subheads, graphics, pull
    quotes, etc. to break up the gray monotony (which is usually condemned as being
    intimidating) ends up not feeling too oppressive. So ultimately I've been happy
    with my decision -- I think that it's ultimately made the paper more accessible
    to flighty student readers."
  created: '2007-02-27 18:10:05'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Erik\r\n\r\nYour sample seems to show an awful lot of hyphens, for what is
    not an exceptionally narrow column.\r\n\r\nMost of the Canadian newspapers I read
    have gone through redesigns in the past few years, and are fairly good, especially
    compared to the crud that existed back in the days when I was a reporter (1970s).
    There has been a general brightening up of the pages with lighter type, larger
    type, and wider columns in the redesigns. Ragged setting is used more, generally
    on opinion, rather than news.\r\n\r\nKerning is all by machine, but the machines
    are getting better. I know most people here would consider it attrocious, but
    compared to what it was in the past.\r\n\r\nTrivia\r\n\r\nThe best story about
    newspaper typography came in the early days of computerized typesetting, on a
    paper using a proprietary system, I think. The editor went ballistic when he discovered
    that the program had hyphenated the word God!"
  created: '2007-02-27 21:14:43'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<em>The editor went ballistic when he discovered that the program had hyphenated
    the word God!</em>\r\n\r\nOh boy. If this had happened nowadays the newspaper
    might well have been the victim of some kind of fundamentalist attack... :-)\r\n\r\nHyphenation
    in English is far more complicated than in Portuguese (a language in which there
    are fairly simple, universal hyphenation rules), though. But that has nothing
    to do with your point about excessive hyphenation.\r\n\r\nWhat bothers me most
    about this specific sample is the complete disregard for the original interletter
    spaces. Maybe this is more evident in the [unenlarged] original."
  created: '2007-02-27 21:53:04'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "VIrtually all papers in New Zealand are total rubbish in terms of design.
    Banal, vile stuff. I would love to be proven wrong.\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-02-27 21:53:18'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "My 5\xA2 for <a href=\"http://www.as8.it/type/articolo_LIBERTA'.pdf\">LIBERT\xC0</a>,
    I managed to restore the grave accent after 56 years of using the apostrophe.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-28 08:08:31'
- author:
    name: Graham Rendoth
    picture: 111939
  body: "Erik, etc\r\n\r\nYour scanned sample is interesting. Much more 'magazine-
    like' to my Australian eye \u2013 tight leading, very condensed, wide column.
    Even though I dont read Spanish(?), I find it a little difficult for my eyes to
    just flow through. If I wanted to read 'all' the content I might find it a little
    difficult, but if I was just 'scanning' the information it would probably be OK,
    or even very easy.   \r\n\r\nThe development of newspaper typography/layout, is
    always an intriguing one. As always there are cultura, media and technical considerations.
    \r\n\r\nMy observation of newspaper design in Australia and to some extent in
    Western Europe and the US over the last 20 years is that if proprietors or editorial
    administration have 'commercial' or 'branding' interests, as well as funds, there
    will be onging considerations of their publication\u2019s design. There will be
    thoughts about typographic fashion, concerns for a fresh style, or perhaps fine-tuning
    of an expected look for a particular publication. Even publications which are
    intended to appear conservative and so relatively unchanging (eg. the traditional
    dense look of 'The New York Times', the slightly fresher style of the UKs 'Guardian')
    have ongoing typographic 'tweaks'. \r\n\r\nIn Sydney, The broadsheet 'Sydney Morning
    Herald' has had ongoing makeovers in the past couple of decades \u2013 in part,
    because of the where digital design could allow quicker production by less staff.
    The first change I really noticed was relatively subtle with introduction of sans-serf
    headlines and a dense high x-height serif setting of the text. I'm not sure, but
    I think the designer borrowed some of the look of what was then newly designed
    Guardian as well as what was happening in some more progressive US newspapers.
    The new look allowed for more hyphenations (automatic!) to fit text in traditionally
    small columns (and so less white rivers) and there was a little more white space
    around images, etc. This is where the 'design' would have been discussed with
    'editorial' staff. I think they also introduced a slightly whiter paper to aid
    in image contrast. Some time around 2000 the look was modified with a new set
    of similar but different text fonts, a more dramatic titling font, and wider columns
    \u2013 all intended to be more readable for a general audience that were developing
    better skills in interepreting layouts and interesting looking fonts (largely
    an influence of our 'magazine' culture I suppose). There have since been some
    ongoing (degenerative?) changes.\r\n\r\nThere are a couple of independent Australian
    design companies that specialise in editorial designs (ie. magazine, newspaper).
    One is de Luxe and Associates. James de Vries and his team have done some good
    solid work over the years with mostly Australian and Asian publications. They
    consider overrall design, including who will be setting the publications and how
    effectively the proposed design can be maintained, or developed. If anyone is
    interested their site has some interesting comments within their Editorial > Neswpaper
    project samples: \r\n\r\n<www.de-luxe.com.au>     \r\n\r\nA sample of a site comment
    is:\r\n\r\nProject: FPC Couriers\r\n\u201CMid-2006, we undertook one of our most
    ambitious projects yet \u2013 to redesign an entire suite of local newspapers.
    As well as the six existing titles, we also had to accommodate a \u201Cfootprint
    restructure\u201D and evolution of new titles. \r\nOnce the designs were completed
    and the processes behind them fully realised, they were then implemented across
    multiple offices, each with their own different set of staff and requirements.
    Once this was achieved, staff (including editors) were briefed and trained, with
    early issues monitored to iron out any wrinkles.\u201D\r\n\r\nCheers. Graham"
  created: '2007-03-01 04:22:58'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "Graham,\r\n\r\nThanks for your truly interesting post. Not surprisingly,
    it seems to me that Australia is far ahead of Brazil in terms of newspaper typography.
    \r\n\r\n<em>(...) all intended to be more readable for a general audience (...)</em>\r\n\r\nAha!
    So newspapers down under are actually aware of the importance of readability!
    I don't think most people in the Brazilian newspaper business have even heard
    about that...\r\n\r\nBy the way, my newspaper sample is in Portuguese, Brazil's
    only official language."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Graham Rendoth
      picture: 111939
    body: "OK Erik, sorry about not picking up the text sample as Portuguese \u2013
      I was in my scanning mode. My initial 'abstract' reaction was that the font
      and setting had an Italian, Spanish or French feel.\r\n\r\nAs far as a day-to-day
      appreciation of newspapers, I usually take a glance at the design then just
      move on and read the thing. Following my initial comments on the Sydney Morning
      Herald, I had a good look at it over the last couple of days and realised that
      the design had in fact changed over the last year. And to a designer's eye not
      for the better. There is apparently a new editor with new ideas. Maybe his changes
      are considered better from a 'branding' or 'reader-appreciation' viewpoint.
      Heads have now reverted from the sans serif, Interstate, which I had liked,
      to the serif, Minion, which makes it all very ordinary. Charter has been maintained
      as the text font, though set without apparent logic as either justified or ragged
      (depending on who is setting it I think). \r\n\r\nI spoke to my friend James
      de Vries about his own recollection of the design development of the SMH, and
      as it turns out, it was actually his company that did the redesign in 2000.
      He is disappointed that his original designs have not been maintained or built
      on. Following some public debate about the new design in 2000, some adjustments
      within the first weeks of publication included an increase in the text size
      from 8.8pt to 9.2pt. His site is www.de-luxe.com.au. He also mentioned a current
      design project where he has commissioned Christian Schwartz in NY to work on
      a family of serif and sans serif fonts \u2013 modifications of some existing
      ones I think.  \r\n\r\nCustom type action in Australia? From my perspective,
      not much goes on at all. There is always someone fiddling with existing fonts
      and a couple of collectives that 'pull a few faces', then they just slip away.
      A few names that come to mind... Australian Type Foundry, Jack Yan, Letterbox
      / Stephen Banham. Very few (if any) hard driving font designers.   \r\n"
    created: '2007-03-05 01:36:45'
  created: '2007-03-02 01:30:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Brazil does enjoy de Groot's superb Folha though.\r\nHow's the custom type
    action Down Under?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-02 17:46:20'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "Yes, Folha de S\xE3o Paulo is far superior to Estado de Minas (not only design-wise)
    and is probably the best newspaper in Brazil in terms of both typography and reporting.
    Still, it is far from perfect. I know newspapers in general have to grapple with
    space issues, but Folha is often guilty of excessive negative tracking.\r\n\r\nI
    recall reading something you (Hrant) wrote somewhere about a newspaper face that
    you found too humanistic. Would you care to expand on that a little?\r\n\r\nMost
    Brazilian typographers (an extremely rare species) and pseudo-typographers seem
    to be ignorant of text faces that are not romantic or romantic-leaning post-moderns
    (or Times Roman, of course). This affects a lot of books and almost all newspapers
    printed in Brazil.\r\n\r\nWhile I realize there don't seem to be a whole lot of
    newspapers out there using radically different typefaces from the ones commonly
    found in this country, I for one would be glad to see a little more humanism in
    newspaper and especially book typography in Brazil. But perhaps you have convincing
    arguments as to why Brazilian newspapers could be going in the right direction."
  created: '2007-03-02 21:53:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Lexicon (which is used in a/some Dutch newspapers) has a lot going for it,
    but it's too \"emotional\" for news. You don't want a buxom vixen trying to help
    you make sense of the world, you want middle-aged man, preferably balding.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-02 22:01:44'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Lexicon is indeed used in a Dutch newspaper (<em>NRC Handelsblad</em> I believe).
    But also faces of Gerard Unger, like Capitolum News (<em>de Volkskrant</em>).\r\n\r\n\r\n[edit]
    sorry about that tag. But on a sidenote, as far as I know everyone can close the
    tag, by opening your post with the closing tag. :)"
  created: '2007-03-03 01:39:41'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "Well, Lexicon is a good example. I believe De Does initially designed it
    for reference texts, a purpose which I think it fulfils brilliantly (especially
    the version with shorter descenders and ascenders).\r\n\r\nNow, why would a serious
    reference book such as a dictionary look sufficiently \"unemotional\" in Lexicon
    but not a newspaper? Is this purely a matter of taste or are there more objective
    factors at play here? (This is not a rhetorical question, by the way.)"
  created: '2007-03-03 13:55:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Quincunx, please close your </em> tag and turn off your italics. \r\n\r\nI
    wouldn't call Lexicon too emotional.  \r\n\r\nPerhaps it may be too black in larger
    sizes, and that could pose a problem for the larger print within a newspaper.
    That was my impression in a sample I saw. However, TEFF has recently released
    a Lexicon Headline, so that problem is probably solved. \r\n\r\nA reference work
    would use type almost exclusively in small sizes, I would guess, and that would
    make an important difference. \r\n\r\nBram de Does is a great type designer. "
  created: '2007-03-03 18:21:38'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Yes, I think De Does designed Lexicon specifically for reference texts. It
    was first used, I believe, for 'De Van Dale', the most prominent dictionary in
    The Netherlands.\r\nThe Dutch newspaper 'NRC Handelsblad', started using the face
    as well, as of 2001. The newer Headline variant of Lexicon was designed for this
    newspaper."
  created: '2007-03-04 02:01:53'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Custom Type down under? \r\n\r\nApart from the few Graham mentions, there
    is little ol' me. I am actually working on several custom faces at the mo. This
    one is almost definitely to be used for Victoria University and may even used
    for a newpaper:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Newzald_6371.gif]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Graham Rendoth
      picture: 111939
    body: "Kris, will be interesting to see the Vic Uni font in a newspaper text setting
      \u2013 should read well, but could have some issue if set tight, or in small
      columns that newspapers will often have. I like the subtle 'fern leaf' and 'carved'
      edges of a lot of your fonts. Do you have any thoughts on good and intersting
      custom font designers in Australia and NZ? Or are you it? "
    created: '2007-03-05 02:37:27'
  created: '2007-03-05 01:58:15'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<cite>Kris, will be interesting to see the Vic Uni font in a newspaper text
    setting \u2013 should read well, but could have some issue if set tight, or in
    small columns that newspapers will often have.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think it will need
    much more work to work in a newspaper! Do you think it is a bit too tight as it
    stands? Or was there something else you were aiming at? I am also thinking of
    having two versions, another with longer extenders for bookish settings. \r\n\r\n<cite>I
    like the subtle \u2018fern leaf\u2019 and \u2018carved\u2019 edges of a lot of
    your fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nInteresting\u2014I am not too sure what you are seeing,
    but I am not surprised that it is there.\r\n\r\n<cite>Do you have any thoughts
    on good and intersting custom font designers in Australia and NZ? Or are you it?</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    can't really speak for Aussie. But apart from the ones you mentioned & myself,
    I honestly can't think of any others who make a crust by designing & publishing
    type. There are many instances of graphic designers hacking a serif, adding a
    curve etc, but that doesn't really count! Thanks to the internet I don't feel
    isolated at all\u2026\r\n\r\nPerhaps you know of a few?\r\n\r\nHere is another
    display one, in progress, for the Chatham Islands:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hoko_4892.gif]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Graham Rendoth
      picture: 111939
    body: "Kris' Vic Uni font: No, my thoughts are that the current setting is OK
      \u2013 a good middle weight and if imagined as a lighter weight probably useful
      for applications like literary magazines, ads, some book settings. To get back
      to Erik\u2019s interests, my thoughts about newspaper setting are probably as
      yours are \u2013 the mix of the slab and angled or calligraphed serifs look
      like they will start to clash, and then counter spaces may close in and start
      to read as strongly as the letterform.\r\n\r\nA font for Chatham Islands...
      Aren't there only about 7 people who live there? Presume this is a for tourism
      application. Is there is some visual reference to an historical epoch or cultural
      style (I'm thinking William Morris patterns, Victorian era, the lightness of
      Fournier)?  "
    created: '2007-03-05 04:18:40'
  created: '2007-03-05 03:12:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kris, great Fleischmann touches (your first sample).\r\nAnd of course the
    soft-top \"a\" is just the way to go.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-05 03:43:21'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Not to derail the conversation too much, but the Chatham Islands typeface
    is for Tourism/Export purposes. The serifs are based on various dendroglyphs that
    were carved by the Moriori:\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture-8_5092.gif]\r\n<cite>Screenshot
    from my proposals.</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nVarious other options & styles were presented,
    but the client preferred the version posted above. I don't think that there are
    many consistent typographic precedents, so it was more-or-less a blank slate!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-05 09:36:00'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "Stuttgarter Zeitung <a href=\"http://www.rampartjuice.com/word/images/Stuttgarter%20Zeitung%20article.jpg\">using</a>
    Gulliver from Gerard Unger. Solid newspaper face.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-05 13:40:19'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: They both look very good.
  created: '2007-03-05 13:42:01'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Re Lexicon used in NRC\xB7Handelsblad: This paper is more expensive than
    the other dailies in the Netherlands, using thicker and better newsprint. It's
    almost as well printed as the dictionary mentioned before."
  created: '2007-03-05 13:59:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The serifs are based on various dendroglyphs\r\n\r\nSweet idea.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    \ there are actually a notable precedents for bifurcated serifs.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-05 17:53:48'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<em>This one is almost definitely to be used for Victoria University and
    may even used for a newspaper (...)</em>\r\n\r\nAnother buxom vixen, Hrant? ;-)"
  created: '2007-03-05 18:45:50'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Gorgrous examples Kris. I gotta disagree Hrant, I'll take the buxom vixen
    over the middle-aged balding man. No offense to middle-aged balding men. How 'bout
    we compromise on a buxom bald vixen? :)
  created: '2007-03-05 19:03:41'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "Speaking of the Sydney Morning Herald, I guess I can\u2019t really say that
    Australia\u2019s newspaper typography is superior to Brazil\u2019s (although this
    has of course been a very crude generalization all along). This is from today\u2019s
    front page (actual size + 300%):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/20070305162607_4952.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/20070305160127_5450.png]\r\n\r\nKris,
    if you do license your Victoria University font for newspaper use, make sure to
    include a clause in your EULA stating that they'll have to pay a fine every time
    they \"rape\" your careful fitting."
  created: '2007-03-05 19:22:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">careful fitting\r\n\r\nThat's a nice font, but wow what happened to the
    letter spacing? For example, the b in 'suburbs' looks like he's afraid of the
    u in front of him, and clinging to the one at the back.  "
  created: '2007-03-05 19:33:21'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<cite>BTW, there are actually a notable precedents for bifurcated serifs.</cite>
    \r\n\r\nI think I know what you are talking about, but I don't think there were
    any roman-letterform precedents on the Islands.\r\n\r\n<cite> I\u2019ll take the
    buxom vixen over the middle-aged balding man.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat is my preference
    too! However, clients can have wildly differing preferences\u2026\r\n\r\n<cite>Kris,
    if you do license your Victoria University font for newspaper use, make sure to
    include a clause in your EULA stating that they\u2019ll have to pay a fine every
    time they \u201Crape\u201D your careful fitting.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe typeface will
    be in very good hands, don't you worry mate! \r\n\r\n<cite>Speaking of the Sydney
    Morning Herald\u2026That\u2019s a nice font, but wow what happened to the letter
    spacing</cite>\r\n\r\nMan, something has gone terribly wrong there. Is it the
    letterspacing itself or bad rasterisation? Where did you get that image from,
    Erik? Is it Charter?\r\n\r\n\u2014K\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-05 20:22:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If you're trying to digest your news while staring with longing at cleavage,
    I hope you at least refrain from voting. Come to think of it, let's all refrain
    from voting, since it clearly isn't working.\r\n\r\nErik's sample -being from
    Newseum I'm guessing- is probably exhibiting problems with the PDF distillation.
    I hope I'm not being too much of an optimist in thinking that the actual paper
    doesn't look like... the dentation of an Australian surfer after a passionate
    encounter with a rocky seashore.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-05 20:35:23'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<cite>If you\u2019re trying to digest your news while staring with longing
    at cleavage,</cite>\r\n\r\nMate, we're talking about type, not tits. Thankfully
    I can make the distinction!\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-03-05 20:40:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ductus is the tits of type.\r\n(Hmmm, would <cite>that</cite> make a good
    t-shirt?)\r\n\r\nBTW, I think your first sample might just make a really nice
    news face (if made lighter and looser, and shortened descenders). I'm a huge fan
    of Schwartz's Houston design, essentially because it's a bit \"out there\". It
    shows the way (and I think so would yours).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-05 20:48:31'
- author:
    name: Graham Rendoth
    picture: 111939
  body: "Erik\u2019s Sydney Morning Herald text sample is Charter. The crude setting
    is probably typical for this newspaper \u2013 in fact most Australian newspapers.
    Perhaps that's why the newspaper redesign in 2000 (as mentioned prior) was intended
    to be set flush left...  \r\n\r\nDendroglyphs? I enjoy semiotics, but had to look
    that one up. So Kris, you were a bit surprised that I was seeing 'fern leaves'
    and 'carved' elements in some of your fonts, but you're happy to acknowledge the
    dendos... I think there are some nice subtle 'Pacific' things going on in much
    of what you're doing. "
  created: '2007-03-05 21:33:49'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<cite> The crude setting is probably typical for this newspaper \u2013 in
    fact most Australian newspapers</cite>\r\n\r\nYuk! Bloody cowboys.\r\n\r\n<cite>you
    were a bit surprised that I was seeing \u2018fern leaves\u2019 and \u2018carved\u2019
    elements in some of your fonts, but you\u2019re happy to acknowledge the dendos\u2026
    I think there are some nice subtle \u2018Pacific\u2019 things going on in much
    of what you\u2019re doing.</cite>\r\n\r\nI am always surprised at what people
    see. Chester reckons he can spot my style, but I can't see it. However, I can
    spot his flavour, but not sure if he can. Of course I acknowedge the Dendro's\u2014they
    are a direct influence on the serifs!\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-03-05 22:07:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I think there are some nice subtle \u2018Pacific\u2019\r\n> things going
    on in much of what you\u2019re doing.\r\n\r\nYou should see the poster he did
    based on papercutting.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-05 22:19:58'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<em>Erik\u2019s sample -being from Newseum I\u2019m guessing- is probably
    exhibiting problems with the PDF distillation.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, the sample's from
    Newseum, but in my experience (which is probably much more limited than yours)
    these distortions tend to happen at low magnifications. 300% ought to be enough
    to do away with most PDF distortions.\r\n\r\nIn any event, here's another sample
    (again at 100% and 300%) which no doubt suffers from the same distortion problems
    (such as the little warts at the top of the a's at 300%, which disappear at larger
    magnifications):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/20070305210851_6101.png]\r\n<cite>
    </cite>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/20070305210920_3638.png]\r\n<cite>
    </cite>\r\nThe colour is undeniably more even, and not only is some respect shown
    for proper letterspacing, but the ligatures and beautiful figures approaching
    three-quarter height (?) hint at superior typography. Is there anything better
    than The Guardian out there? Samples, anyone?"
  created: '2007-03-06 00:27:11'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: No.
  created: '2007-03-06 00:35:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Erik, your latest sample seems to have some hinting weirdness going on, which
    I think is normal. I really don't understand the previous sample. Do PDFs ever
    shove letter spacing around like that? Does even any layout program? That one
    baffles me. \r\n\r\nIf you are interested in samples, FontBureau is a leading
    supplier of fonts to newspapers (including in Latin America) and they have samples
    of their newspaper fonts on newsprint, which I'm sure they will send you on request.
    \r\n\r\nAlso typophiler Nick Shinn has designed a number of newspaper fonts and
    I'm sure would respond to a request for samples.  "
  created: '2007-03-06 00:51:35'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "Oh, and I'd be glad to let this vixen inform me any time. (Hopefully my wife
    will never read this.)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/20070305215505_6391.png]\r\n<cite>
    </cite>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/20070305215436_4003.png]"
  created: '2007-03-06 01:01:59'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<em>I really don\u2019t understand the previous sample. Do PDFs ever shove
    letter spacing around like that? Does even any layout program?</em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    I think it's just plain bad typography, unfortunately.\r\n\r\nAnd thanks for the
    suggestions, William."
  created: '2007-03-06 01:14:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">just plain bad typography\r\n\r\nI don't think you get that kind of irregular
    spacing just by being sloppy. It must be some out of whack justification software
    or defective version of the font or something. I'd like to know just to avoid
    it ever happening to me! Any ideas out there?"
  created: '2007-03-06 02:56:49'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "I'd be curious to hear what members think of this newspaper typography...\r\n\r\nhttp://images.google.com/imgres?imgurl=http://jeracor.com/bsgfx/pd20041127.jpg&imgrefurl=http://stlbrianj.blogspot.com/archives/2004_11_21_archive.html&h=618&w=600&sz=60&tbnid=fMcKX3lP6OzkOM:&tbnh=136&tbnw=132&hl=en&start=4&prev=/images%3Fq%3Dst.%2Blouis%2Bpost-dispatch%26gbv%3D1%26svnum%3D10%26hl%3Den%26sa%3DG\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pd20041127_5814.jpg]"
  created: '2007-03-06 03:43:36'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: The masthead's a thing of beauty...
  created: '2007-03-06 13:07:04'
date: '2007-02-27 14:13:21'
node_type: forum
title: Newspaper typography

---
