---
author:
  name: jason
  picture: 109852
body: This topic (dpi and web graphics) recently hijacked another thread (<a href="http://typophile.com/node/31800">Node
  31800</a>, about half way down the first page), but here's where we can continue
  the discussion, if necessary...
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Re-post from previous thread:\r\n\r\nThis is a subject that makes me cry
    and reminds me of how bad I am with numbers. I had both my boss and a co-worker
    sit me down not that long ago and help me understand the difference. I still don't
    fully grasp it. I live in a dpi print based world. But apparently the web doesn't
    care about dpi, only pixels.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.tildefrugal.net/photo/dpi.php\">DPI
    and PPI Explained</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://photo.net/learn/resize/\">Display, Printing,
    dpi and ppi</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fotofinish.com/resources/centers/photo/resolution.htm\">Understanding
    Resolution</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://ezinearticles.com/?The-Difference-Between-DPI-and-PPI&id=240819\">The
    Difference Between DPI and PPI</a>"
  created: '2007-03-01 20:12:18'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "My understanding - and I'm not a web designer - is that when preparing graphics
    for the web you should always be working in 72 dpi (or ppi). That way you are
    dealing with the images at the size they will display on screen. And, when creating
    tables and such you thus already know the pixel dimensions of your images without
    having to do any math. Deviating from that standard can only cause confusion IMHO.\r\n\r\nBut...
    a question pertaining to topics raised in the other thread - does it affect image
    loading speed if the graphic is at a higher dpi (same pixel dimension)? Not that
    I'd do that but it was discussed earlier."
  created: '2007-03-01 20:16:18'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "This might be an silly question. But, if you use the \"Save for web\" feature
    in photoshop/illustrator, does it default the DPI? \r\n\r\nI've never really realized
    there was a difference between pixel density and DPI. Maybe I need someone to
    sit down and explain it to me. "
  created: '2007-03-01 20:18:30'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: It defaults to 72 dpi (I think) but if your image is at a higher dpi than
    that, it may make the image proportionally larger to maintain the pixel dimensions.
    Not sure tho.
  created: '2007-03-01 20:20:32'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: '"Save for Web" defaults to 72 dpi AND respects the size it is at in the document.'
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: i rest my case.
    created: '2007-03-01 20:37:52'
  created: '2007-03-01 20:21:46'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "continuing from the other thread...\r\n\r\n\"no, it only exists in photoshop.\"\r\n\r\nAh,
    that makes sense.\r\n\r\nAll that setting the image to 72dpi is makes sure that
    your 100% = 1 pixel of screen for every pixel of image. I assume your video editing
    software when it sees a 72dpi just then doesn't bother resizing it to ensure that
    every pixel you created in photoshop is brought over as a pixel in your video
    image.\r\n\r\nIt's a setting that you need to have, but really isn't related to
    print dpi what-so-ever. Just an old habit of photoshop's. ;o)\r\n\r\nAnd now back
    to this thread...\r\n\r\n\"My understanding - and I\u2019m not a web designer
    - is that when preparing graphics for the web you should always be working in
    72 dpi (or ppi). That way you are dealing with the images at the size they will
    display on screen.\"\r\n\r\nThe dpi really doens't matter. It's just a particular
    setting in photoshop to make it easy to know when you are truly seeing all the
    pixels (100%). The image, itself, retains no dpi info online.\r\n\r\n\"But\u2026
    a question pertaining to topics raised in the other thread - does it affect image
    loading speed if the graphic is at a higher dpi (same pixel dimension)?\"\r\n\r\nNot
    at all. The dpi setting isn't used at all by the web browser. All it cares is
    what the actual image is in pixels.\r\n\r\n\"Maybe I need someone to sit down
    and explain it to me.\"\r\n\r\nI'm trying but probably not fully getting the point
    across. Toss out some more questions and I'll try to clarify! ;o)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "i can't believe i'm still in this.  i think we have a disconnect between
      three worlds: 1) strict technical language, 2) misleading naming conventions
      in software, and 3) actual user experience. \r\n\r\ni think the question of
      loading time relates not to \"dpi per se\" but rather to file size. \r\na 300x300
      image at 300ppi (photoshop language) is a much larger file than \r\na 300x300
      image at 72ppi (photoshop language). \r\n\r\nif i take the 72ppi version into
      video, it comes up at 300x300 pixels on the screen,\r\nbut if i take the 300ppi
      version into video, it's much larger.\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-03-01 20:52:33'
  created: '2007-03-01 20:41:50'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'I suppose I should add that there has been a longtime wish to have DPI settings
    online. At one point, the PNG format had a proposed multi-resolution option. The
    idea that the PNG could serve up the low-res version for on screen viewing, but
    if you wanted to print it, you could send a higher resolution image (at the same
    physical dimensions) for printing on paper. It was a great idea, but still hasn''t
    been adopted. '
  created: '2007-03-01 20:46:32'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "<em>\"But\u2026 a question pertaining to topics raised in the other thread
    - does it affect image loading speed if the graphic is at a higher dpi (same pixel
    dimension)?\"</em>\r\n\r\nPatty, if you look at <a href=\"http://www.greenboathouse.com/misc/dpi.html\">the
    examples I posted</a> and check the image properties, you'll see that both of
    the graphics (1 @ 72dpi and 1 @ 300dpi, both 300 x 300px) are the exact same file
    size. Bizarre, but true."
  children:
  - author:
      name: AndrewSipe
      picture: 109430
    body: "<cite> you\u2019ll see that both of the graphics (1 @ 72dpi and 1 @ 300dpi,
      both 300 x 300px) are the exact same file size. Bizarre, but true. </cite>\r\n\r\nI
      think that's where I'm lost, how can you control the DPI aside from the resolution? "
    created: '2007-03-01 20:59:42'
  created: '2007-03-01 20:54:50'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Well, to use the examples set prior.\r\n\r\n<strong>If I have a 300x300 pixel
    image with a resolution of 72ppi and I have another 300x300 pixel image with a
    resolution to 300ppi.</strong>\r\n\r\nIn this example, how am I controlling the
    DPI? All I've changing is the pixel resolution. A 300x300 pixel image at 300ppi
    is equal to a 1250x1250 pixel image at 72ppi, right?"
  created: '2007-03-01 20:56:22'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "The point I think Darrel is trying to drive home to all of us is that the
    web doesn't care about resolution, only pixel dimensions. As in my example linked
    above, two files with different dpi display exactly the same if the pixel dimensions
    are set the same. It's funny that all of us are clinging so tightly to the \"300dpi
    means larger dimensions\" thing, and I can only guess it's because that model
    is true <em>for print</em>.\r\n\r\nAndrew, the crazy thing here is that there's
    no need to \"control the DPI.\" We're just so used to having to control it <em>exactly</em>
    for print that we simply don't want to let go of that control with web graphics,
    even though, according to Darrel's comments and the proof in my examples, we don't
    need to worry about it at all.\r\n\r\n<em>\"A 300x300 pixel image at 300ppi is
    equal to a 1250x1250 pixel image at 72ppi, right?\"</em>\r\n\r\nIt <em>CAN</em>
    equal 1250x1250, if you resample it to do so, but apparently it doesn't <em>necessarily</em>
    equal 1250 x 1250; that is, you can simply \"tell it not to\" by changing the
    pixel dimensions."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "but in what environment were your test images finally rendered to us ?\r\nyes
      granted, on the web, they are the same. \r\n\r\nbut at what point in the process
      was one a larger file than another ? \r\nand at what point was the larger one
      reduced to match the smaller,\r\nand how many different ways are there to do
      that, \r\nand which are lossless and which are lossy ?\r\n\r\nin photoshop and
      aftereffects, there is no question that dpi (ppi) is directly linked to \r\nfile
      size and relatively linked to image quality. \r\n"
    created: '2007-03-01 21:13:28'
  created: '2007-03-01 21:00:52'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I think that\u2019s where I\u2019m lost, how can you control the DPI aside
    from the resolution?\"\r\n\r\nYou don't. It's just a bit of meta information that
    says 'hey, when you print this image, print it at this size on paper'. It just
    controls the SIZE of the pixels when printed.\r\n\r\nOn screen, it's irrelevant.\r\n\r\n\"The
    point I think Darrel is trying to drive home to all of us is that the web doesn\u2019t
    care about resolution, only pixel dimensions.\"\r\n\r\nYes! ;o)\r\n\r\n\"in photoshop
    and aftereffects, there is no question that dpi (ppi) is directly linked to\r\nfile
    size and relatively linked image quality.\"\r\n\r\nNope. File size is determined
    by the number of pixels in it. I think that's where you're confused.\r\n\r\nThese
    images would be the same file size:\r\n\r\n100x100 @ 100dpi \r\n100x100 @ 1000dpi\r\n\r\nprinted
    from photoshop, one would be 10 times smaller, but they both have the same number
    of pixels and take up the same amount of memory on the computer. One would print
    1\" square, the other .1\" square\r\n\r\nNow, these images WOULD be different
    file sizes:\r\n\r\n1\" x 1\" @ 100dpi\r\n1\" x 1\" 2 1000dpi\r\n\r\nThey'd print
    the same size, but the first would be 100x100 and the second would be 1000x1000.
    The second would be 100 times larger in file size."
  created: '2007-03-01 21:24:34'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "To clarify (hopefully!) the reason you see a file size difference, Ch (I
    assume) is that aftereffects retains a physical size to your image. Film, for
    instance, doesn't have a resolution. I assume you can output your afteraffects
    file to film at any resolution you like. Either way, it has to fit the physical
    size and aspect ration of a film frame.\r\n\r\nSo, if you retain a physical 'printed'
    size to an image, and increase or decrease the dpi, yes, it will increase or decrease
    the file size, as you are adding or removing pixels.\r\n\r\nHowever, if all you
    care about are the pixel dimensions (as one is on screen) then increasing or decreasing
    the dpi won't change anything on screen. It's still the same pixels."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "this just making me crazier. i insist we have a language gap here.\r\n\r\n>>\u201Cin
      photoshop and aftereffects, there is no question that dpi (ppi) \r\n>>is directly
      linked to file size and relatively linked image quality.\u201D\r\n>>Nope. File
      size is determined by the number of pixels in it.\r\n>>I think that\u2019s where
      you\u2019re confused.\r\n\r\nyour response doesn't address the point. the operative
      detail is: pi. per inch.\r\nthe amount of information per inch can vary. more
      information is more information.\r\nmore information is a bigger file. higher
      resolution means more information. higher resolution means bigger files. i am
      dealing with this is a big way these days as my world transitions from NTSC
      to HD."
    created: '2007-03-01 21:35:52'
  created: '2007-03-01 21:28:01'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "I still know where you're coming from Chris; when I tested Darrel's theory
    and proved his results I was shocked. So here's what I did.\r\n\r\nI started with
    a 300dpi image that was 1600x1600 pixels, let's say the file size was 1MB. Throw
    that on the web and, sure enough, it fills the screen and is slow to download.\r\n\r\nChange
    the resolution (without resampling) to 72dpi (thus keeping the image at 1600x1600px).
    This is where I've always been mistaken: I <em>thought</em> this would reduce
    the file size, but it doesn't. But...\r\n\r\nResize/resample that 72dpi graphic
    down to 300x300px (that is, change the pixel dimensions) and the file size drops,
    let's say to 75K, and now it displays at the size I want (300x300px).\r\n\r\nNow,
    here's the weird part, go back to the 300dpi/1600x1600px image, make sure \"Resample
    Image\" is checked, and simply change the pixel dimensions to 300x300px, leaving
    the dpi at 300. This is the crazy part: the image is now the right dimensions
    for the web, and the file size is the same as the twice worked-over version above,
    only 75K.\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: ">>I started with a 300dpi image that was 1600x1600 pixels, let\u2019s say
      the file size was 1MB. >>Throw that on the web and, sure enough, it fills the
      screen and is slow to download.\r\n>>Change the resolution (without resampling)
      to 72dpi (thus keeping the image at >>1600x1600px) and the file size drops somewhat
      (let\u2019s say 200K).\r\n\r\nmy point exactly.\r\n\r\n>>Now, here\u2019s the
      weird part, go back to the 300dpi/1600x1600px image, make sure >>\u201CResample
      Image\u201D is checked, and simply change the pixel dimensions to 300x300px,
      >>leaving the dpi at 300. This is the crazy part: the image is now the right
      dimensions for >>the web, and the file size is the same as the twice worked-over
      version above, 75K.\r\n\r\nwhen you downrez and then uprez again you lose information.
      you cannot recreate the information that was in the original. the resulting
      file can be compressed much more easily than the same size original.\r\n\r\ni've
      also noticed that photoshop defines file size in inconsistent ways that i don't
      really understand. file size and upload time may also be linked to compression
      codecs. i'm not an expert there either.\r\n\r\n>>\u201CDPI has nothing to do
      with file size.\u201D\r\ni think this statement may be technically true but
      functionally misleading,\r\nbecause in photoshop ppi is linked to image dimensions.
      it depends how you are using the information.\r\n\r\nin my video work the final
      product is lossless, uncompressed. \r\ni constantly see changes in file size
      relating to resolution.\r\n\r\nanyone at adobe care to weigh in on this ? i'm
      officially out of my league.\r\ni just know what i have to deal with on a daily
      basis. maybe it's all a dream. i love you all.\r\ngoodbye...\r\n"
    created: '2007-03-01 21:46:15'
  created: '2007-03-01 21:32:30'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Frankly I don't care if the web \"sees\" dpi. Photoshop cares. So it seems
    to me that if I'm creating graphics/pix for the web, in Photoshop, I should use
    72 dpi. If I need the same image for a print project, I use 300dpi. While both
    images might be the same size, in inches, they will be very different in pixel
    dimensions.\r\n\r\nIf anybody is confused you can see the diff b y going into
    View in P-shop - view at \"print size\" and \"actual pixels\". If you're using
    72 dpi those two pix will appear the same on screen. I realize that you can upload
    graphics at other than 72 dpi as long as it is the same pixel dimensions but why
    would you do that?\r\n\r\nThis is making my head spin. I'm sorry I started it! "
  created: '2007-03-01 21:39:44'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "I agree Patty, I feel like my entire understanding of the world I live in
    is being questioned! I totally agree with what you've said, but I find it fascinating
    how wrong I've been about this question as far as web graphics go. And the idea
    that:\r\n\r\n\"DPI has nothing to do with file size.\"\r\n\r\nThat makes me shiver
    to say it, but, despite what I thought I knew, it seems to be true."
  created: '2007-03-01 21:43:30'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "The actual files for bitmapped graphics, if you look at them (for example
    by opening one up in a hex editor and comparing against the JPEG spec), simply
    describe pixels. A JPEG file, for example, is defined in terms of a rectangle
    that is X pixels wide and Y pixels high, and consists of a compressed summary
    of X times Y pixels. The information about pixels per inch is purely optional,
    as a way of telling printers how big to print the thing. It's not really part
    of the data at all.\r\n\r\nVideo may be somewhat different because the compression
    algorithms are more complicated and may want to take into account how large it
    will appear to be."
  created: '2007-03-01 21:44:17'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "<cite>Frankly I don\u2019t care if the web \u201Csees\u201D dpi. Photoshop
    cares. So it seems to me that if I\u2019m creating graphics/pix for the web, in
    Photoshop, I should use 72 dpi.</cite>\r\n\r\nPhotoshop cares if you're going
    to print it, but not if it's going on the web. It assumes 72 dpi for web use as
    a sort of arbitrary convention - that number describes the original 1984 Macintosh
    screen. Computers now generally have smaller pixels (a 20-inch iMac, for example,
    at 1680x1050, is around 98 ppi). The main thing, from Photoshop's point of view,
    is that a 72-dpi image will either have small enough pixel dimensions to work
    on the web or it will have large enough spatial dimensions to alert you to the
    problem.\r\n\r\nThe whole thing is easiest if you acknowledge that print and web
    are different beasts. Print works in units of area, so dpi is absolutely essential,
    whereas the web works in pixels, so dpi is totally irrelevant - what matters there
    is the number of pixels."
  created: '2007-03-01 21:56:32'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: Chris, note that I edited the first statement you quoted. Changing from 300dpi
    to 72dpi <em>does not change the file size</em> unless the pixel dimensions are
    also changed.
  created: '2007-03-01 21:57:29'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"more information is a bigger file. higher resolution means more information.\"\r\n\r\nYES!
    But we're talking *on screen* resolution. Which means 1 pixel of image information
    = 1 pixel of the screen. \r\n\r\nChanging the DPI of an image doesn't necessarily
    change the amount of information. 300x300 is and always will be 300x300 regardless
    of the DPI setting you give it. If you RESAMPLE while changing DPI, then that
    WILL change the file size, because you add and/or subtract pixels. But that's
    a result of the resampling specifically.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-01 22:08:00'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Frankly I don\u2019t care if the web \u201Csees\u201D dpi. Photoshop cares.\"\r\n\r\nPhotshop
    doesn't care either. YOU may care because it's nice to know that 100% in photoshop
    means 1 pixel of image = 1 pixel on screen if the image is told to print at 72dpi.\r\n\r\n\"So
    it seems to me that if I\u2019m creating graphics/pix for the web, in Photoshop,
    I should use 72 dpi. If I need the same image for a print project, I use 300dpi.
    While both images might be the same size, in inches, they will be very different
    in pixel dimensions.\"\r\n\r\nThat is true. If you are dealling with real inches
    in print, that's when DPI matters. (even then, Photoshop doesn't care, but that's
    another thread...)\r\n\r\n\"\u201CDPI has nothing to do with file size.\u201D\r\n\r\nThat
    makes me shiver to say it, but, despite what I thought I knew, it seems to be
    true.\"\r\n\r\nWell, here's a better way to say it:\r\n\r\nDPI, by itself, has
    nothing to do with file size.\r\n\r\nIf you combine DPI with wanting output at
    a specific pixel dimension, THAT's when file size changes because you are adding
    and subtracting data from the image to accomodate the specific DPI at a specific
    print size.\r\n\r\nOr maybe that's just more confusing. ;o)\r\n\r\nCh...I too
    would love to hear from someone at Adobe. I do believe you that DPI makes a difference
    in your work. I'm sure it has something to do with After effects assuming some
    sort of 'virtual' frame size in real measurments. "
  created: '2007-03-01 22:14:13'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "As far as I know, Darrel is right. The dpi is totally unconnected from file
    size. The only thing that has influence on file size, is pixel dimensions. So
    only when you resample images in photoshop when changing the dpi-settings, file
    size will change.\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "AAARRRGGGGHHHHH. why do we keep citing this data in isolation when obviously
      the relationship between ppi and file size comes into play RELATIVE to size
      on the screen ???????? call it inches or pixels. it's data per display size.\r\nevery
      photoshop user deals with this everyday.\r\n\r\nDarrel finally said it best:
      \"DPI, by itself, has nothing to do with file size.\"\r\noperative term: BY
      ITSELF. but we don't interact with this information \"by itself\".\r\nin the
      world of production it is totally relevant data.\r\n\r\nto me this is like saying
      the numbers 3 and 9 on a postage stamp, by themselves, have nothing to do with
      the value of the stamp. right. but relative to currency and the change in my
      pocket and my desire to send the letter, it is relevant data."
    created: '2007-03-02 04:03:32'
  created: '2007-03-02 02:37:24'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "Chris, I tried to read all of this and I feel your pain. \r\n\r\nI hate to
    potentially add confusion, but just like scaleable text, scalable images are one
    of the next big things to sprout on the web thanks to CSS and JS. Check this link:\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.xs4all.nl/~sbpoley/webmatters/resize.html\">http://www.xs4all.nl/~sbpoley/webmatters/resize.html</a>"
  created: '2007-03-02 04:52:13'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "\"AAARRRGGGGHHHHH. why do people keep citing this data in isolation when
    obviously the relationship between ppi and file size comes into play RELATIVE
    to size on the screen ???????? call it inches or pixels. it\u2019s data per display
    size.\"\r\n\r\nChris, I had to read this several times to figure out how you could
    think there is any relationship between ppi and file size. I think there may be
    a cultural gap here that's hindering communication between people who just use
    images and people who muck about with file formats. A Photoshop user might think
    of pixels as just the things visible on the screen, and might think the underlying
    data are something different. This would seem like a sensible assumption, because
    it corresponds to the reality of preparing image files for printing. But actually
    file formats such as JPEG and GIF consist of \"abstract\" pixels that ideally
    correspond to the pixels on your screen. There's a file header that contains various
    information about the file (including, in JPEG/JFIF format, 4 bytes that define
    the ppi values); everything after that file header is just a compressed or uncompressed
    array of pixels. When you open up a JPEG in Photoshop and then select \"Image
    Size\", the display tells you the dimensions in pixels at the top and the dimensions
    in your units of choice (inches, centimeters, etc.) below. The pixels in the upper
    half of the Image Size dialog are the image data - no matter what dpi the Resolution
    box shows, the amount of image data is equal to the pixel dimensions.\r\n\r\nWhen
    Photoshop (or some other image viewer) displays an image at 100%, that means that
    one abstract file pixel is equal to one screen pixel.* When a Photoshop file is
    sent to a printer, though, it doesn't work in pixels - it works in units of area.
    So when the file gets printed, it is converted into different information based
    on the dpi setting in the file. So you are correct that the amount of data depends
    on ppi in the world of (print) production, but Darrel is also correct in saying
    that changing the ppi of a file has no effect on the file size unless you also
    change the pixel dimensions.\r\n\r\nWeb browsers will display the image at 100%
    unless forced to do otherwise, like in the example from Patty's site that started
    this thread. So for web use, the size on screen depends solely on the pixel dimensions,
    and ppi has no effect. This is very different from how images are prepared for
    print in Photoshop, but it's the reason why, in the alternate-size image example
    that Dan posted, it's necessary to have separate files for each size.\r\n\r\n*
    Obviously, if the image is being displayed at something other than 100%, either
    some pixels of the file data are being dropped out or additional pixels are being
    extrapolated. This doesn't affect the file size, because the number of pixels
    actually stored in the file remains the same."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "i give up. it's not about the abstract, it's about the practical reality.
      \r\nppi RELATIVE TO IMAGE SIZE affects file size. in my life, in my dimension,
      in my universe. or am i just dreaming about this computer in front of me ? sometimes
      i think so.\r\n\r\nwe could take this all the way into the abstract and say
      that the pure data doesn't really exist at all, it's just modulated electrons;
      pure energy. so what ? what matters is what they mean to us in context. i have
      to deal with the interdependence if PPI and IMAGE SIZE. \r\ni never deal with
      them in isolation. i deal with their practical relationship, with FILE SIZE
      the third point in the triangle. call it a game, call it a naming convention,
      call it a day. \r\ni need a drink.\r\n\r\n(i changed \"people\" to \"we\" because
      it's all about... us.)"
    created: '2007-03-02 06:01:13'
  created: '2007-03-02 05:38:30'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "I think Chris is frustrated because you guys are implying that if I were
    to scan a six inch square image it would make no difference in file size whether
    the image was going to be scanned at 72 ppi or 600 ppi or 1200 ppi. \r\n\r\nI
    don't think that is what you guys are saying, but I think that is what some people
    are hearing. "
  created: '2007-03-02 06:35:45'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "\"ppi RELATIVE TO IMAGE SIZE affects file size.\"\r\n\r\nI don't think anyone
    has disagreed with this. I probably shouldn't have used the word \"abstract\",
    except that I wanted to make the point that the pixels you see on screen aren't
    necessarily the pixels in the file.\r\n\r\nHere's a simple summary:\r\nfile size
    = pixel dimensions\r\non screen, image size = pixel dimensions / display ppi  [nominally
    72]\r\nin print, image size = pixel dimensions / image ppi  [whatever the ppi
    setting in the file is]\r\n\r\nI think we've all been saying this, but in different
    ways and with different emphases that made it look like disagreement."
  created: '2007-03-02 06:43:43'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "\"I think Chris is frustrated because you guys are implying that if I were
    to scan a six inch square image it would make no difference in file size whether
    the image was going to be scanned at 72 ppi or 600 ppi or 1200 ppi.\"\r\n\r\nYes,
    that may be the problem. Darrel and I have been talking about pixels not inches,
    but people who think in \"paper\" terms think in inches, not in pixels."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "yes, the scanning reference is apt. that's a practical example, no matter
      what the engineering book says. the equivalent example exists as i import psd
      images into other platforms.\r\n\r\nall technical definitions aside (ha ha),
      here's the simplest example i can give:\r\n\r\ni have a photoshop image 1280
      x 760 @ 300ppi.  i place it unaltered in illustrator. \r\nit comes in natively
      at a certain size on the ai doc.\r\n\r\ni have a copy of the same file. i convert
      it to 72ppi without changing pixel dimensions \r\n(1280 x 760). i place it in
      the illustrator doc. it comes in much larger than the higher rez file because
      the same amount of visual \"pixel\" information is spread over many more inches,
      because there is less information defined per inch. if i want it to be the same
      \"placed size\" natively, i have to make it a smaller file. less information,
      lower resolution\r\nof the original visual information.\r\n\r\nthe exact same
      thing occurs when i bring images into aftereffects. so video is more like print
      ? - it is in effect a print medium with a preset resolution...\r\n\r\ni just
      have to think of dots, pixels, data PER INCH as a defining aspect of resolution
      and file size, because my output medium handles it that way. lets call it a
      language problem.\r\nif it's some arbitrary definition within the arcane world
      of adobe / video, so be it.\r\nfunctionally, for my work, the video screen remains
      72dpi, and i prepare elements according how they look in the working environment.
      and the higher rez images are just\r\nbigger files, no matter who is asking.
      \r\n\r\nyou wanna see a grown man cry ? i can't wait to meet you guys... hugs
      all around ;-}\r\n"
    created: '2007-03-02 07:18:54'
  created: '2007-03-02 06:48:03'
- author:
    name: winge
    picture: 109439
  body: "This discussion really accentuates the different point of view of this matter.
    Personally, I've grown up with the \"pixel\" outlook on computer images, and hence
    I often think that the resize dialog in more advanced image editing software,
    like Photoshop, is overtly complicated. \"Inches? DPI? Why would I care about
    those arbitrary values? I want control over the actual number of pixels, because
    that is what is relevant for how much information is stored in the picture.\"
    As others have commented, for web-use (today), the numbers of actual pixels in
    the picture is what actually matters. If you are thinking in terms of inches and
    DPI, you are making the matter unnecessarily complicated for yourself. Unfortunately,
    Photoshop and the like tends to enforce the concept of DPI (as the discussion
    about 72 DPI shows).\r\n\r\nI don't know if I can add much to the discussion apart
    from what has already been said, except to note that the term \"resolution\" sometimes
    is used in two very different meanings, which might be a source of great confusion.
    Sometimes it refers to the number of dots/points per inch, DPI/PPI, and sometimes
    to the raw number of pixels without any notion about physical length (for example
    when talking about computer screens, or digital cameras).\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-02 10:05:29'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "<cite>Personally, I\u2019ve grown up with the \u201Cpixel\u201D outlook on
    computer images, and hence I often think that the resize dialog in more advanced
    image editing software, like Photoshop, is overtly complicated. \u201CInches?
    DPI? Why would I care about those arbitrary values? I want control over the actual
    number of pixels, because that is what is relevant for how much information is
    stored in the picture.</cite>\r\n\r\nI agree. I think of the pixels first, and
    the \"real world\" image dimension measurements (ppi/inches/cm) as extra info
    in the file which other applications (or Photoshop's Print dialog) may or may
    not look at when I reuse that image in other contexts. Which is how the info is
    actually stored. I don't think that GIFs don't contain any real world size info
    at all.\r\n\r\nYes, it's handy if I know all my images in a print project have
    been tagged as \"300ppi\" so when I scale them to 150% in Quark, I know that they
    will come out at 200ppi (plus you can't scale smaller than 10% which is a problem
    if your images are tagged as 72ppi). But it is not a property of the image itself."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "even in various contexts, \"resolution\" is a term that necessarily implies
      unit size and amount of data, relative to eachother. whether you call them pixels
      per inch or dots per inch or grains per cm or blocks per mile or bits per second...\r\n\r\nonly
      in relation to data density per unit can you discuss the relative resolution
      of different documents. a higher data density within the same unit is more information,
      and (if that information requires storage without compression) its a larger
      file. more information is just... more information.\r\n\r\nthe photoshop convention
      may be \"unreal\" but it works well enough across platforms,\r\nand provides
      clear enough standards that i can manipulate and anticipate results.\r\n\r\nto
      say \"dpi has no relation to file size\" in the abstract sounds more unreal
      to me than the\r\nmythical pixels per inch because, as bluestreak wrote, when
      i scan a 6 inch doc at 300dpi\r\ni get a larger document than when i scan a
      6 inch doc at 72dpi. \r\n\r\nthe word resolution refers to different standards
      of measurement at different stages in the process; input, manipulation, output.
      at various stages it may entail file size, image quality, or interpolation,
      but not necessarly all at the same time.\r\n\r\nand because screengrabs and
      video grabs still come in at 72ppi that remains a functional\r\nconvention for
      working with screen resolution. is it true ? not really but it works for me
      in many situations until a better uniform standard is in place.\r\n\r\nthe truth
      is... the electrons are having a big party in there and bumping into eachother\r\nat
      unimaginable speeds, playing drinking games, singing kareoke, and making snow
      angels in the documents. if you listen closely to a really hi-rez document,
      you can actually hear them singing. i have a lawnmower. can you swim ?"
    created: '2007-03-02 14:58:53'
  created: '2007-03-02 12:44:17'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>Personally, I\u2019ve grown up with the \u201Cpixel\u201D outlook on
    computer images, and hence I often think that the resize dialog in more advanced
    image editing software, like Photoshop, is overtly complicated. \u201CInches?
    DPI? Why would I care about those arbitrary values? I want control over the actual
    number of pixels, because that is what is relevant for how much information is
    stored in the picture.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere's the difference right there. Maybe
    you upstart web kids should have a bit more understanding of \"old media\", or
    print. And take a broader view. Photoshop deals with DPI and inches because that
    information is EXTREMELY relevant for print media. I may use the same image in
    print (300 dpi) in a pdf or comp (150 or 200 dpi) and for a web graphic or jpeg
    to email for approval (72 dpi). Images need to be scaleable both in terms of real
    size (inches) and resolution (DPI or PPI). If I had to make those calculations
    in pixel dimensions I'd go nuts.\r\n\r\n<cite>If you are thinking in terms of
    inches and DPI, you are making the matter unnecessarily complicated for yourself.</cite>\r\n\r\nOnly
    if you are talking about the web. But I DESIGN for the web, do not program for
    it. I create my files in photoshop. And yes, once I have a grid figured out I
    resize various elements using their pixel dimensions but it still feels very unnatural
    to me, coming out of a different design tradition, not to think in terms of inches,
    at 72 DPI. \r\n\r\nSo I second what Chris says - it's not about the abstract but
    about practical reality. \r\n\r\nAnd I will add one more thing - if you take the
    same file, same file size (in pixel dimensions) and place it in a design program
    such as Quark or InDesign, the clarity with which it will display will be very
    different if you place it at 300 dpi and scale it up or at 72 dpi, full size -
    in inches."
  children:
  - author:
      name: winge
      picture: 109439
    body: "<cite>Maybe you upstart web kids should have a bit more understanding of
      \u201Cold media\u201D, or print. And take a broader view.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t
      know if I should regard \u201Cupstart web kids\u201D as an invective or not,
      but in any case, I maybe should clarify that my whole message was about images
      on the web (which is the subject of the thread), and about resizing them, as
      opposed to images to be printed. Of course DPI is very much relevant for printed
      matter; it would be silly to imply otherwise.\r\n\r\n<cite>And I will add one
      more thing - if you take the same file, same file size (in pixel dimensions)
      and place it in a design program such as Quark or InDesign, the clarity with
      which it will display will be very different if you place it at 300 dpi and
      scale it up or at 72 dpi, full size - in inches.</cite>\r\n\r\nI must admit
      I am not fully following you here, but I don\u2019t know if it is because you
      are saying something blatantly obvious, or something very subtle. In your example,
      do you mean that both of the pictures are to be printed in the same size (in
      inches)? Which, then, would you say, has most clarity?\r\n"
    created: '2007-03-02 15:43:44'
  created: '2007-03-02 14:36:13'
- author:
    name: "Kellie Str\xF8m"
    picture: 111448
  body: "Another reason why 72ppi could confuse - when I had an old CRT monitor, that
    was about 72 ppi, but on my current laptop 100ppi would seem to be closer to the
    resolution on the screen - so don't expect your 72 by 72 pixel image to show up
    as one inch across on every web user's screen - for many, maybe even most people,
    it'll appear smaller.\r\n\r\nThe one place where the dpi resolution will be relevant
    is if you're putting an image file online and expect people to download it and
    print it out by itself, i.e. not as part of a HTML page - then their printer will
    probably respect the dpi number and size it accordingly."
  created: '2007-03-02 14:59:28'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Kellie, I have two monitors (one CRT one iMac) at right angles to each other
    and the same image at 100% or actual size or on the web looks drastically different.
    So when I do design for the web I make sure to test it out for size on both monitors.
  created: '2007-03-02 15:20:54'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"ppi RELATIVE TO IMAGE SIZE affects file size.\"\r\n\r\nIf you are measuring
    image size in inches, sure. Though the term there is DPI. Not PPI. \r\n\r\n\r\nBut
    we're talking on-screen graphic here. \r\n\r\nPPI is simply a measurement of screen
    density. It has nothing to do with your image, really.\r\n\r\n\"you wanna see
    a grown man cry ? i can\u2019t wait to meet you guys\u2026 hugs all around\"\r\n\r\nAnd
    beers. Hugs and beers!\r\n\r\n\"There\u2019s the difference right there. Maybe
    you upstart web kids should have a bit more understanding of \u201Cold media\u201D,
    or print. And take a broader view. Photoshop deals with DPI and inches because
    that information is EXTREMELY relevant for print media.\"\r\n\r\n\r\nAll the confusion
    here is really software's fault. They still assume the world is 1984 and we're
    all using Macintosh computers that truly have monitors that display 72ppi. All
    the technology has changed, but the software never gave up that assumption.\r\n\r\nPatty,
    you are right DPI is important when printing. It's *only* applicable when printing.
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\"to say \u201Cdpi has no relation to file size\u201D in the abstract
    sounds more unreal to me than the\r\nmythical pixels per inch because, as bluestreak
    wrote, when i scan a 6 inch doc at 300dpi\r\ni get a larger document than when
    i scan a 6 inch doc at 72dpi.\"\r\n\r\nAnd thats because changing the DPI pegged
    against physical dimensions inscreased the actual number of pixels.\r\n\r\nDPI
    doesn't DIRECTLY change the file size. Scanning software uses a DPI setting combined
    with a physical measurement setting (inches) to calculate the pixel dimensions
    for you. Changing the DPI in your scanning software is just telling the software
    to scan in more pixels of data. You are reinterpolating the image, just as you
    can when resizing in photoshop.\r\n\r\nI agree with what you are saying, Ch...Software
    has one way of describing all of this which is somewhat antiquated. It's just
    the way we've always done it, so it's what we're used to.\r\n\r\nIt is good to
    understand the issues of screen vs. print image settings, though...regardless
    of what Photoshop wants to call it all.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-02 15:47:12'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "This is not to be rude to anyone, but I honestly don't understand why this
    is so difficult to comprehend.\r\n\r\nWhen I started design (largely self taught)
    I picked up the 300dpi number for print and the 72dpi for web but could see that
    there was a problem with the latter:\r\n\r\nOK, for print I want this image to
    be 2.5\" square, so if I need (asks printer...) 300 pixels per inch, that image
    that needs to be ... 300 x 2.5 = 750 pixels square.\r\n\r\nNow for the web, I
    also want that image to be 2.5\" square, so that means it should be .... 72 x
    2.5 = 170 pixels square ... saves it at 72dpi ... checks it on own screen... OKish.
    Hang on, when the CEO sees it projected on the screen in the the boardroom it's
    going to be much bigger. And in fact it's smaller if I change the resolution on
    my Mac. (back in the CRT days). So what's changed - is it displaying the same
    number of pixels? Yes. So the dpi must have changed. So that 72 isn't a constant.
    (measures a few screens with ruler and checks display settings...) 75, 80, 85...
    tries saving at each of those DPI values, plus 300 for good measure... no effect
    whatsoever) right, let's forget that 72!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-02 15:59:22'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "The operative element for web is wysiwyg - whether it's 72 dpi or 100 dpi
    (depends on your monitor) you are working in screen resolution.\r\n\r\nTo answer
    Johan, the image will LOOK better in Quark or InDy if it's 72 dpi at actual size
    rather than 300 dpi (same px dims) enlarged to fit. Even tho the file size is
    the same.\r\n\r\nTo confuse you webbies further, in print there's a distinction
    btw high res and low res. While the printer gets high res files, it is common
    to use low-res scans when making a layout to keep the Quark or InDy files from
    getting unmanageably large. If the scans have the same name, the printer can replace
    them automatically while preserving sizing, cropping, etc. So yes, to reiterate,
    DPI is very important."
  children:
  - author:
      name: winge
      picture: 109439
    body: "<cite>To answer Johan, the image will LOOK better in Quark or InDy if it\u2019s
      72 dpi at actual size rather than 300 dpi (same px dims) enlarged to fit. Even
      tho the file size is the same.</cite>\r\n\r\nAha, you are talking about the
      appearance on the monitor, not in the resulting print. I tried what you described,
      and there is indeed a clear difference. However, that is only an artefact of
      the software's optimization algorithm. In theory, the result would be identical,
      and if you turn on High Quality Display (instead of Typical Display) in InDesign,
      you will indeed see that the pictures look the same.\r\n"
    created: '2007-03-02 16:35:34'
  created: '2007-03-02 16:06:54'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "<cite>ppi RELATIVE TO IMAGE SIZE affects file size.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>If
    you are measuring image size in inches, sure. Though the term there is DPI. Not
    PPI.</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\nTechnically we should always talk about  DPI (dots per
    inch) for printers, and PPI (pixels per inch) for displays. And perhaps less importantly,
    SPI (samples per inch) for scanners. All of these are input/output devices. Image
    files themselves have none of these.\r\n\r\nThe two meanings of the word \"screen\"
    -- display and halftone -- may have helped in the confusion..."
  created: '2007-03-02 16:11:45'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "\"If you are measuring image size in inches, sure. Though the term there
    is DPI. Not PPI.\"\r\n\r\nNo! That's what is perpetuating the confusion. Both
    are measurements \"per inch.\" If you want to only measure in pixels only that's
    fine. I love measuring that way and do measure that way. But don't refer to it
    as PPI. "
  created: '2007-03-02 16:28:21'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "<cite>To answer Johan, the image will LOOK better in Quark or InDy if it\u2019s
    72 dpi at actual size rather than 300 dpi (same px dims) enlarged to fit. Even
    tho the file size is the same.</cite>\r\n\r\n...editing..."
  created: '2007-03-02 16:29:22'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I don't really get it either but am attempting to show you what I mean. The
    image on the left was placed from a 300 dpi file that was scaled up over 300%
    to fit. The image on the right is 72 dpi placed at 90%. I changed the resolution
    in p-shop with resampling unclicked so the pixel dimensions of both files are
    exactly the same, 706 x 900. I reduced the whole thing a bit so as not to be too
    huge here, I hope you can read the difference. And yes, Johan is right, there
    would be no difference in printing or other output.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/godwin_6258.jpg]"
  created: '2007-03-02 16:40:33'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/babel2_4196.jpg]'
  created: '2007-03-02 16:44:24'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"No! That\u2019s what is perpetuating the confusion. Both are measurements
    \u201Cper inch.\u201D If you want to only measure in pixels only that\u2019s fine.
    I love measuring that way and do measure that way. But don\u2019t refer to it
    as PPI.\"\r\n\r\nMy point was that DPI and PPI are used to measure different things.\r\n\r\nDPI
    = the number of 'dots' of data PRINTED per inch of paper.\r\n\r\n(edit: that's
    not quite true, either. DPI is really the number of dots of data AVAILABLE for
    printing. Most printing is done via a line screen [LPI], so the actual dots that
    are printed are less than the number of pixels in the image)\r\n\r\nPPI = the
    number of pixels on a computer screen per inch of glass.\r\n\r\nDPI is an image
    file setting/printing measurement. PPI is a hardware display measurement.\r\n\r\n\"I
    don\u2019t really get it either but am attempting to show you what I mean. The
    image on the left was placed from a 300 dpi file that was scaled up over 300%
    to fit.\"\r\n\r\nThen it's no longer 300dpi. It's now 100dpi. \r\n\r\n\"The image
    on the right is 72 dpi placed at 90%.\"\r\n\r\nWhich = (ugh...gotta remember some
    math now)...umm...80 dpi\r\n\r\nSo, when printed, the image on the left, would
    actually have more detail than the one on the right. As for the screen display,
    as mentioned, that's just how the DTP software is rendering the screen 'thumbnail'"
  created: '2007-03-02 17:21:41'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Maybe this will help explain things. Ch posted that picture of babel at 72dpi.\r\n\r\nHere's
    the same image, but set at 300dpi:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/babel2_4196_300dpi_4701.jpg]\r\n\r\nSame
    number of pixels = same file size = same size on screen.\r\n\r\nNow, if you download
    each one and open each one in Photoshop and then print each one from photoshop,
    then you'll see that the DPI setting merely changes how large the image will be
    printed."
  created: '2007-03-02 17:26:53'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>(edit: that\u2019s not quite true, either. DPI is really the number
    of dots of data AVAILABLE for printing. Most printing is done via a line screen
    [LPI], so the actual dots that are printed are less than the number of pixels
    in the image)</cite>\r\n\r\nI think this conversation is missing one key component.
    <strong>Interpolation.</strong> I understand the concept that DPI doesn't matter
    when displaying an image on screen (nor does it effect file size) but when the
    issue of printing is in place, it becomes a major issue. And it's all based on
    simple interpolation."
  created: '2007-03-02 18:45:13'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>Now, if you download each one and open each one in Photoshop and then
    print each one from photoshop, then you\u2019ll see that the DPI setting merely
    changes how large the image will be printed.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell... not exactly.
    The DPI setting will not determine how large the image will be printed in inches,
    but rather how high the resolution will be. They should both print at the same
    size."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Sebastian Nagel
      picture: 109594
    body: "> Well\u2026 not exactly. The DPI setting will not determine how large
      the image will be printed in inches, but rather how high the resolution will
      be. They should both print at the same size.\r\n\r\n\r\nNo, if this would happen,
      you would have different number of pixels in the image. 300 pixels are 300 pixels.
      The PPI-Value tells how they are distributed. In 300ppi, they are placed on
      the length of one inch. In 100ppi, they take the place of 3 inches."
    created: '2007-03-02 19:08:33'
  created: '2007-03-02 18:57:02'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "I really don't know why this topic is so difficult to understand, but obviously
    it is, as I run across people every now and then who confuse things...\r\n\r\nI'll
    try to explain:\r\n\r\nLets start with print: PPI means Pixels per Inch.\r\nYou
    have a certain amount of Pixels, distributed on the length of one inch. The more
    Pixels you have, the smaller they get, the sharper the image looks like.\r\nThe
    PPI-Value set in Photoshop is only a number: It defines the relationship between
    number of pixels (pixel dimensions) and the physial size of the image (length
    and width dimensions). There is no additional information in this number.\r\nIf
    you have a picture with 300*300 pixels, and a dpi value of 300, it will print
    1*1 inch in size. If you take the same picture, and change the dpi value to 100
    (picture is still 300*300px large!), it will print 3*3 inches. There is the same
    amount of pixels printed, resulting in a grainier picture with larger pixels.\r\nI
    think this quite clear.\r\n\r\nSo let's switch to screen:\r\nHow large is a Screen
    with 1600*1200 pixels? It differs. There are small 12\" notebook displays with
    this pixel dimensions, and large desktop displays as well. Both have the same
    pixel dimensions, but the differ in: PPI. A small notebook display has let's say
    200 pixels per inch, a large desktop-display maybe 100. The Pixels of the Desktop
    Display are larger.\r\nWhat happens if you display a picture with 300*300 pixels
    here? It will display in different sizes. On the notebook, you will have a picture
    of 1,5*1,5 inches. On the Desktop, the same picture will be 3*3 inches. Each pixel
    of the display shows one pixel of the picture.\r\nAs the notebook pixels are much
    smaller, the resulting display of the image is smaller too. There is (yet) no
    way to determine, how big a picture (in inches) is displayed on a screen. All
    you can do is give pixel dimensions.\r\n\r\nSo what is it about 72ppi (or 96ppi)?\r\nWell,
    for some purposes, the operating system has to convert pyhsical lenghts to pixels.
    This happens for example with type. You say \"my window titles should have the
    size of 10pt\". pt is a physical length. But the operating system has to display
    pixels, so it needs to know what \"10pt\" is. Ideally, you would tell the system,
    how large your screen is in inches (lenght, height). Then, if you say \"10pt\",
    it could display the type exactly 10pt. But until today this is theoretically
    possible, but practically not, as for programming reasons. So, the system *assumes*
    your screen has a physical resolution of 72ppi (apple) or 96dpi (windows), even
    if it is not exactly true. For most desktop displays, the value today is between
    90 and 100ppi, so 96 is quite a good number (72 was quite good in the 80ies and
    even 90ies, but displays became better).\r\n\r\nSo: if you have a 96ppi screen,
    and you take a picture of 96*96 pixels in photoshop, and enter the value 96ppi,
    it will show exactly as large as it would print (1*1 inch).\r\n\r\nBut all of
    this only matters if you want to print a picture. The PPI value is worthless on
    a screen, which dimensions are unknown to you (which happens on the internet or
    on TV).\r\nAs Aluminium tells us with the tower of Babel, if you have the same
    number of pixels in a picture, it does not matter whether it is saved at 30000ppi
    or just 30. On screen, each pixel is shown 1:1, size according to the size of
    the actual display. If you took this picture to photoshop and print it, the printed
    size would differ dramatically (this does not apply to print from a internet browser,
    they act like displays when they print)."
  created: '2007-03-02 19:04:30'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Well\u2026 not exactly. The DPI setting will not determine how large the
    image will be printed in inches, but rather how high the resolution will be. They
    should both print at the same size.\"\r\n\r\nI think that's where you are confused,
    Patty.\r\n\r\nThey will not print at the same size. Try it. ;o)\r\n\r\nFor them
    to be different DPI resolutions, they HAVE to be printed at different sizes, as
    DPI is directly related to that. If they were printed at the same size, since
    they both have the same number of pixels, then they'd be at the exact same resolution.\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "sorry about the atrocious typography (among other things)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/babelcomp_6085.jpg]"
    created: '2007-03-02 19:49:08'
  created: '2007-03-02 19:17:55'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Ch,\r\n\r\nwhat you did \"wrong\" when changing the PPI-Value in C is to
    have the box \"resample image\" checked in photoshop. If this is checked, Photoshop
    does not change the picture dimensions (inches), but the pixel number, resulting
    in a smaller (lesser pixels) picture.\r\nYou did not change the relationship between
    pixel number and size, but the pixel number itself.\r\n\r\nFor picture B: This
    has to be done with interpolation (making the picture smaller and resize it to
    original size again). Otherwise, you would not see a difference between A and
    B on screen (but in Print, B would print significantly larger and grainier).\r\n(Edit:
    OK, it might be that Illustrator interpolates in display...)\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "i appreciate what you're saying but i knew exactly what i was doing - \r\ni
      understand the resampling option.\r\n\r\nmy point is that it's meaningless to
      divorce resolution from image size and document size.\r\nresolution is the \"result\"
      of data density per unit size. they are interdependent.\r\n\r\nso i chafe when
      one is described as unrelated to the other because my experience with the files
      completely defies the separation of the concepts. \r\n\r\ni actually think we're
      all saying the same thing in different languages ! hence: babel."
    children:
    - author:
        name: Ch
        picture: 112205
      body: "okay, so how about we all start working with 72 dpi images from now on
        ?\r\nthey should look just as good as 300 ? why bother with resolution at
        all ?\r\n\r\n"
      created: '2007-03-02 20:34:02'
    created: '2007-03-02 20:29:16'
  created: '2007-03-02 19:59:52'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Ch...sebastion explained it well. You did more than change the DPI. You also
    resampled the image.\r\n\r\nAs for A and B, I have no idea how you managed to
    make them look in that image different. As you can see the image you originally
    posted and the one I posted are exactly the same, even though they are set to
    different DPI settings."
  created: '2007-03-02 20:22:19'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "OK I don't feel like firing up my printer and wasting toner to print a test
    but there are two factors when setting up a file in photoshop, size (inches, lets
    say) and dpi. This is why an image of greater than 72 dpi will appear as different
    sizes on screen when you view it as \"Actual Pixels\" or \"Print Size\".\r\n\r\nPrint
    Size is the dimension, in inches, regardless of the dpi or pixel size. Changing
    the dpi won't change the print size. It will change the resolution and also the
    way it reads onscreen, if viewed as \"Actual Pixels\".\r\n\r\nI really don't think
    I'm confused. I've been using Photoshop since some of you were in grade school.
    I just don't use pixel dimensions as my starting point. "
  created: '2007-03-02 20:25:51'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>For them to be different DPI resolutions, they HAVE to be printed at
    different sizes, as DPI is directly related to that. If they were printed at the
    same size, since they both have the same number of pixels, then they\u2019d be
    at the exact same resolution.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf this were true, then you'd never
    be able to get print quality out of your inkjet. A photo taken on, say, a 7 megapixel
    camera would then print out poster size.\r\n\r\nWhen I take a pic on my digicam
    default is 180 dpi at some huge size, 20 something inches. If I want to email
    the pic I downsize it to 72 dpi at about 6 x 8\". If I want to print it and have
    it look good I change it to 300 dpi and then size it to fit the paper I'm printing
    it on. I know that you can click \"print to fit\" and the machine does it for
    you, but I prefer to control the sizing myself.\r\n\r\nInches and dpi do matter,
    in printing. It's not all about the pixel dimensions."
  created: '2007-03-02 20:32:53'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I think that people who don't work in print don't understand resolution.
    That's the only conclusion I can come to. There's really no such thing as resolution
    on the web unless you really screw up.\r\n\r\nOne of the reasons I don't like
    web design is that there are no absolutes. In print, there are.  You have much
    more control over the appearance of your project.\r\n\r\nSo I guess the answer
    to the question at the top of this thread is no, dpi is not relevant to web graphics."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: ">>One of the reasons I don\u2019t like web design is that there are no
      absolutes. \r\n>>In print, there are. You have much more control over the appearance
      of your project.\r\n\r\nactually it's the other way around. web is fixed resolution,
      hence no concept.\r\nprint is quite variable, hence control.\r\n\r\nvideo is
      sort of both, or neither. a few presets. just to add to the fun, in video i
      have to deal with square pixels (computer) vs. non-square pixels (video). so
      both pixel dimensions and resolution remain vital as i work in preset frame
      sizes determined by engineering standards, but i use elements of various sizes
      and resolutions that often go from print to scan to computer to video.\r\n\r\ntennis,
      anyone ? "
    created: '2007-03-02 20:39:53'
  created: '2007-03-02 20:36:09'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "A to B was upsampled. degradation.\r\n\r\noriginally A to typophile was downsampled.
    reduction.\r\nthe first babel image i sent alone was at 300dpi.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-02 20:37:20'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I meant by absolutes that you aren't hostage to someone else's browser, monitor
    resolution, etc. You control the design, you know how it's gonna look, in perpetuity.
    Which can be a problem of course if you make a mistake.
  created: '2007-03-02 20:43:21'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Print Size is the dimension, in inches, regardless of the dpi or pixel
    size. Changing the dpi won\u2019t change the print size.\"\r\n\r\nYes. It will.
    Again, print out the images above. Please. I think it's the only way I can convince
    you. ;o)\r\n\r\nI think you and Ch aren't seeing that there are two ways to change
    the image in photoshop. You can resample, or not resample.\r\n\r\nIf resampling
    is on, changing the DPI will not affect the print size. It will affect the pixel
    dimensions.\r\n\r\nIf resampling is off, changing the DPI will affect print size.
    It will not affect the pixel dimensions.\r\n\r\n\"If this were true, then you\u2019d
    never be able to get print quality out of your inkjet. A photo taken on, say,
    a 7 megapixel camera would then print out poster size.\"\r\n\r\nThat's irrelevant
    to what I said. I said if you have two images with the exact same number of pixels,
    for them to be printed at different DPI resolutions, they have to be printed at
    different sizes.\r\n\r\n\"Inches and dpi do matter, in printing. It\u2019s not
    all about the pixel dimensions.\"\r\n\r\nAbsolutely! No one is arguing that. Inches
    and DPI matter in print. Pixel dimensions matter on the web. \r\n\r\n\"okay, so
    how about we all start working with 72 dpi images from now on ?\r\nthey should
    look just as good as 300 ? why bother with resolution at all ?\"\r\n\r\nOn screen,
    it won't matter at all. On paper, it will.\r\n\r\n\"I think that people who don\u2019t
    work in print don\u2019t understand resolution. That\u2019s the only conclusion
    I can come to. There\u2019s really no such thing as resolution on the web unless
    you really screw up.\"\r\n\r\nThere is resolution, but it's not based on the image.
    It's based on the monitor. So, you are saying exactly what we've been saying.
    We are in agreement on this. ;o)\r\n\r\nAs for print vs. web...\r\n\r\nPrint design
    is about dictating a solution. Web design is about suggesting a solution. ;o)\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-02 20:49:26'
- author:
    name: Ken Messenger
    picture: 111387
  body: "I'm amazed at how many posts there are on this topic.\r\n\r\nIn practice
    I think it's better to use the term ppi for the image file and dpi for the printed
    result. Although dpi is too engrained at this point much as font has replaced
    typeface."
  created: '2007-03-02 20:52:58'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"In practice I think it\u2019s better to use the term ppi for the image
    file and dpi for the printed result.\"\r\n\r\nDPI is definitely a factor of printing
    the image. However, PPI is really just a measurement of the density of the physical
    computer monitor's pixels. It's not really related to the image at all. The same
    image will have a different PPI depending on which monitor is displaying it.\r\n\r\nI
    think.\r\n\r\nI'm confused now too. ;o)\r\n\r\nOne last attempt at an explanation...\r\n\r\nIn
    the end, this is just some algebra:\r\n\r\nDPI = pixel dimensions / print dimensions\r\n\r\nIt's
    only relative to print, because print dimensions are only relevant to actually
    printing out an image on paper. For the web, you get rid of the printing part,
    and therefore DPI is ignored too, leaving just the pixel dimensions.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-02 21:09:51'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "\"One of the reasons I don\u2019t like web design is that there are no absolutes.
    In print, there are. You have much more control over the appearance of your project.\"\r\n\r\nYes,
    I think that sums it up perfectly. Printing an image is based on two variables:
    the pixel dimensions and the ppi setting in the file, which combine to create
    a size in inches. Web display is also based on two variables: the pixel dimensions
    and the user's monitor settings, which the designer has no control over. The 72
    ppi convention is artificial, and usually incorrect (since most people use monitor
    settings somewhere around 100 ppi now), but it does provide a way for people who
    are more accustomed to working in inches to get a rough idea of how big the image
    will be.\r\n\r\nProblems are most likely to occur where the designer doesn't really
    understand that print and screen display work in basically different ways. This
    could be a print designer saving images with overly high pixel dimensions for
    use on screen, or it could be a web designer not realizing that the images with
    low pixel dimensions will look like crap if they're printed out. It's probably
    useful nowadays to speak both \"languages\" to some degree."
  created: '2007-03-02 21:10:01'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"The 72 ppi convention is artificial, and usually incorrect (since most
    people use monitor settings somewhere around 100 ppi now).\"\r\n\r\nDamn. I think
    that sums up everything I've been trying to say in one nice sentence. Nice!\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-02 21:13:47'
- author:
    name: Ken Messenger
    picture: 111387
  body: "Whatever will we do when the iPhone ships at 160ppi?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.apple.com/iphone/technology/specs.html"
  created: '2007-03-02 22:00:06'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Whatever will we do when the iPhone ships at 160ppi?\"\r\n\r\na) rejoice,
    since it's about time we get some decent resolution on handheld screens ;o)\r\n\r\nand\r\n\r\nb)
    nothing. Since it shows web sites and all it cares about are the pixel dimensions
    we set the images up as. ;o)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-02 22:15:07'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "White flag... It's the same as always when I have this topic going on again.
    For me, everything is plain clear, maybe because I do a lot of print design and
    screen design.\r\n\r\nI have a certain mass of pixels.\r\nIf I distribute them
    on paper, they need to be small enough (300dpi+) so the result is crispy. I just
    have to print the picture small enough or have enough of pixels, so that this
    is guaranteed.\r\nIf I show this mass of pixels on screen, I don't know how large
    the pixels of the viewer will be, so I can't say how big the picture will be displayed.
    But I know that the image will be displayed 1:1 (everything else isn't possible
    with todays operating systems \u2013 *if* it was possible today, *then* DPI and
    inches would matter on screen!).\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\u201COne of the reasons I don\u2019t
    like web design is that there are no absolutes. In print, there are. You have
    much more control over the appearance of your project.\u201D\r\n\r\nWeb design
    is almost exactly as absolute as print design, if you do everything with pixels
    (font sizes, artboard dimensions and \u2013 here you have no other choice \u2013
    pictures). One can produce perfectly static websites that look exactly the same
    on every desktop computers screen, except for one thing: you can not determine,
    how big the site as a whole is exactly displayed. And, of course, you don't know
    whether your viewer has turned his monitor settings to 100% brightness / 100%
    contrast...\r\n\r\nPrint design has also some variables you can not control: Under
    which ambient light the product is looked at? Should the reader use glasses? Did
    the Newspaper get wet and wobbly before he got it inside?\r\n100% control isn't
    possible."
  created: '2007-03-02 23:11:35'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "\u201CWhatever will we do when the iPhone ships at 160ppi?\u201D\r\n\r\nThat's
    no problem, actually it's good. Your iPhone is much closer to your eyes than you
    desktop monitor. So everything appears bigger. A 160ppi-screen shrinks it again,
    giving you more space with same viewing experience as on a Desktop (but smaller
    dimensions). "
  created: '2007-03-02 23:14:27'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "Q: how many typophiles does it take to change a lightbulb ?\r\n\r\nA: why
    do you want to change it ? that's not really a lightbulb. yes it is. it doesn't
    matter. \r\ni don't care what you call it, i just have to change it. what exactly
    do you mean by change ? when it's off it's not a lightbulb, it's a dark bulb.
    that's not really a bulb shape, it's a drop shape. should i use the same size
    ? size is irrelevant to luminosity. but the size and shape matter to me, because
    i'm also an interior decorator. won't a bigger bulb be brighter ? not necessarily,
    it depends on the luminance. why bother replacing it ? why not replace it with
    halogens ? should they be of equal luminance ? that's meaningless because they
    burn at a different color temperature. but luminance is independant of color.
    no, they are related. does a blue of 2000 lumens look the same as a red of 2000
    lumens ? there's no such thing as a red of 2000 lumens, that's off the charts.
    who wrote the charts ? i still have to change it. do you have any gloves ?"
  created: '2007-03-02 23:51:40'
- author:
    name: winge
    picture: 109439
  body: "<cite>I just don\u2019t use pixel dimensions as my starting point.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    understand that, and there's really nothing wrong about that. Different schools
    of thought.\r\n\r\nHowever, that doesn't mean that pixels are unimportant. Far
    from it. Knowledge about the pixel size is important, in the way that it represents
    the actual information stored in the picture.\r\n\r\nLet me pose a rethorical
    problem: suppose you want to print a very small picture -- and with \"small\"
    I mean few pixels, of course ;-) -- for example your avatar, which measures 60
    times 60 px. If you want, you can resize this picture to be 10 inches wide at
    300 DPI, right? But to achieve this, you will have to change the number of pixels
    in the process (because 10in times 300 DPI equals 3000 px). This can be achieved
    through interpolating upsampling. However, the catch is, and I am sure that you
    realise this, that you can't really add any information to the original picture
    in this way. The final picture will have the resolution 300 DPI in one sense of
    the word, but that number says very little about the image quality. In fact, the
    picture will be extremely blurry.\r\n\r\nIn short, don't ignore the pixel count,
    and be vary of resampling.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-02 23:55:33'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>That\u2019s irrelevant to what I said. I said if you have two images
    with the exact same number of pixels, for them to be printed at different DPI
    resolutions, they have to be printed at different sizes.</cite>\r\n\r\nMy point
    exactly. They will print at different sizes. For what you said to make sense you
    assume that all printers print at the same resolution. You control the print size
    using a combo of dpi and size in inches. The same image - let's say 6 x 8\" -
    at 300 dpi and then down-rezzed to 72 dpi (resampled) will print the same size
    on paper - at different resolutions - but will appear different on screen if viewed
    at \"Actual Pixels\".\r\n\r\n<cite>If resampling is off, changing the DPI will
    affect print size. It will not affect the pixel dimensions.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's
    right but you will also notice that the size in inches changes too, proportionately.
    Your print size will still be your dimensions in inches, irrelevant to the dpi
    or pixel dimensions. \r\n\r\n<cite>Print design is about dictating a solution.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhich
    is why I'm in print!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-03 03:40:43'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "It's late and my brain is empty, but one thing jumps out at me, in the differences
    between web and print, that I'm surpised no one else has mentioned, especially
    on a discussion group called \"Typophile\" . . . when I hear Patty mention that
    she likes the control in print design compared to the web, I immediately think
    of type as much as pictures, perhaps even moreso. In web design we cannot know
    how lines of type are going to break, and we cannot control the color of type,
    cannot subtly track the word spaces in a line of FL text to make the rag more
    even, cannot ensure that we won't have more than two lines in a row that end in
    a hyphen. This is the part about web that I am still trying to accept -- it's
    exciting, but it's a bit like walking into a frontier town in the wild west where
    only some aspects of life are ordered and predictable. For me, the careful massaging
    of type on a book page is one of the most challenging, meditative, and satisfying
    things I could ever do. I love it, and I hate having to give up that subtle degree
    of control when I do web design. \r\n\r\nAt this late hour, I also see something
    rather amusing. We have all learned to think of vector art as resolution-independent
    and pixelated (bitmap) art as resolution-dependent. Right? \r\n\r\nWell, having
    read this whole thread from the beginning, I would summarize by saying that designing
    for the web -- for which the <em>lingua franca</em> is pixels -- is resolution-independent!
    Apart from the density of an end user's display, we need not care about anything
    except pixels. (Video is different from computer displays, as Ch has pointed out.)
    So that is the ultimate in simplicity. For the web, a pixel is a pixel is a pixel.
    Whereas design for print is <em>dependent</em> on resolution! Does anybody else
    think this is a bizarre twist, or is it because it's 1 in the morning and I'm
    the only one laughing?\r\n\r\nI also want to return to something Patty said a
    bunch of posts up from here: she said the pictures of those two guys would print
    at the same size and a lot of people said no! But if I understand this correctly,
    she was showing us two picture boxes in an app such as QuarkXPress. One picture
    was blown up to 300%, the other one reduced to 90%. But both pictures would indeed
    be the same size because they would be printed on paper with identical dimensions.
    the density of their contents might be different (and the file sizes of the scans
    different), but the pictures would be the same size on the printed paper.\r\n\r\nTaz
    Tally is saying that pictures for the web ought to be saved in Photoshop at 96
    ppi rather than 72 ppi. Have any of you heard this? (He says it during a Silverfast
    scanning software video at lynda.com.) I don't understand why he thinks we should
    save them at 96 ppi when they are still going to display as plain ol' pixels!
    The file sizes will be identical, and the pixel dimensions will be identical,
    but the <em>print size</em> will be smaller. What advantage is there in that if
    one is making a scan strictly for the web?! (The only thing I can think of is
    that he wants his 4x6 inch snapshot print to appear on the screen at roughly the
    same size (thus returning to WYSIWYG) but no two monitors are alike, so what good
    is that? Am I missing something essential here?  \r\n\r\nOne last thing about
    resolution. So much of it depends on appropriate understanding of viewing distance,
    rather than going for whatever is the highest absolute quality. I make very big
    photomurals (sometimes 50 feet long) and although most of them are doneon photographic
    paper, I've made a few public art projects using traditional paper billboards.
    These are made by silkscreening CMYK process inks onto the paper. When you see
    a billboard from your car or from the subway, the image looks normal, and very
    sharp. If you walk right up to it, you'll find that the color separation was made
    with a 15-line screen! The ink spots look like golf balls! For the <em>designed</em>
    viewing distance, you don't need a screen ruling any finer than that.\r\n\r\nIn
    1984 I bought an electronic typesetting system for the book-printing company where
    I was working. Up to that time we were setting everything in hand type or on the
    linotype. (Yes, that is correct, all hot-metal in 1984!) I bought a Monotype Lasercomp
    because it gave us access to Monotype's distinguished library of types. The Lasercomp's
    resolution was 1000 dpi. My friends a couple of states away, who did the same
    kind of work in book production, had a Linotronic with a resolution of 2540 dpi.
    One friend from that plant came over and looked at the output from our machine
    with a high-power loupe and commented gently that he could see the rough edges
    on the letters from our machine, whereas the Linotronic edges were smooth. He
    was quietly happy that their machine produced smoother edges. \r\n\r\nHe was right,
    but I would also say that the type from our machine, once burned onto a plate
    via contact in a vacuum frame, its image inked and then transferred to rubber
    blanket, and then transferred <em>again</em> to uncoated paper such as Superfine
    or Dulcet, would read just fine. Our books were meant to be read at a distance
    of 12 or 15 inches (30 to 38 cm) and in that situation, 1000 dpi vs 2540 dpi didn't
    matter. But the difference between a 133-line halftone and a 200-line halftone
    could be perceived immediately with the naked eye: you could feel grain in the
    133 and it was absent in the 200.\r\n\r\nSo we agonize about resolution all the
    time when paper is involved.\r\n\r\nTime to get horizontal."
  created: '2007-03-03 06:01:32'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Bruce said:\r\n\"Taz Tally is saying that pictures for the web ought to be
    saved in Photoshop at 96 ppi rather than 72 ppi. Have any of you heard this? (He
    says it during a Silverfast scanning software video at lynda.com.) I don\u2019t
    understand why he thinks we should save them at 96 ppi when they are still going
    to display as plain ol\u2019 pixels! The file sizes will be identical, and the
    pixel dimensions will be identical, but the print size will be smaller. What advantage
    is there in that if one is making a scan strictly for the web?! (The only thing
    I can think of is that he wants his 4x6 inch snapshot print to appear on the screen
    at roughly the same size (thus returning to WYSIWYG) but no two monitors are alike,
    so what good is that? Am I missing something essential here?\"\r\n\r\nYou understood
    that exactly right: if you scan an image of 1*1 inches with 96ppi, *most* of the
    todays screens will display it at about this size. If you scan at 300ppi, you
    will get a picture about three times as large on a usual screen, so if you only
    want to scan for screen use, 96dpi will be the \"right\" resolution if you don't
    want to magnify or show details.\r\nToday, almost every normal desktop screen
    has a physical resolution of 90 to 100ppi, rather than about 72ppi in the 80ies.
    Special devices like laptops, handy displays, etc. may differ, but they are used
    in different viewing distances. Or they are used for special tasks. You can't
    care about the special ones...\r\n\r\nAs for choosing a ppi-value for a picture
    you want to use on screen, and you already have (not scanning yet): You *have*
    to choose a value in most picture file formats, but its completely irrelevant
    on screen. There, only pixel dimensions count. You can set the value to 3ppi,
    30, 300 odr 30000, the picture  will not display any different, nor will there
    be more or less information in the picture, thus the filesize will be identical.
    The ppi-value is ignored in internet browsers (it may not in photoshop in certain
    display modes, as photoshop is print orientated, but we talk about output media
    like paper or on-screen internet browser).\r\n\r\n\r\nWhen people say they can't
    control how their content is displayed on the internet, that's just wrong. They
    can not control the total size of there website in inches, but they can do it
    very exactly in pixels. Assuming that every user has a display that fits his needs
    in certain circumstances (desktop, laptop, mobile phone), this means that your
    website reaches the viewers eye as intended.\r\nIf somebody looks at his 160ppi-iPhone
    at the same distance he uses his 23\" desktop monitor, it is *his* problem. It's
    the same thing as if someone does not uses his glasses, and complains that he
    can't read this small printed type.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-03 09:53:09'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Maybe what may confuse some, is that they use the pictures intended for screen
    in mainly print orientated software like Illustrator, Indesign or (in parts) Photoshop.
    This software simulates print output, don't trust it for on screen display (specially
    not Illustrator, Indesign or xPress)! They *do* read and consider the PPI-value
    of an image, because they also do consider inches and pt.\r\n\r\nWhat is relevant
    for internet use just is internet browsers. They are \"real world\". They don't
    care about inches or pt (that's why text size in browsers of OSX and Windows can
    differ in certain circumstances - but that's the *only* part where internet browsers
    care about lengths units)."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "these narrow definitions of \"relevance\" are what's bothering me. why
      would i want to supply my web host with gigabytes of huge resolution images
      just because they'll \"display\" the same as small ones ? obviously it makes
      more sense to reduce them for web display for no other reason than the overall
      storage size of the site. and yes, large images load slower.\r\n\r\nfor me,
      it's pointless to define relevance purely in the isolated context of final delivery
      media. relevance includes all the intermediate media stages, interpolations,
      translations, conversions, and prepwork.\r\n\r\ni can't believe all you web
      builders out there aren't making choices about picture size\r\nand clarity every
      day, possibly converting unwieldy hi-rez originals into more managable sizes
      and making sure they look as good as possible. you're dealing with resolution,
      whether you apply ppi choices or not. i thinks that's what the real misunderstanding
      has been - patty and i use ppi as our means of defining resolution, and perhaps
      that particular mode of measurement isn't useful to the web, but RESOLUTION
      itself is a basic aspect of digital image quality and optimization for any digital
      media, web included.\r\n\r\ni've said it before and i'll say it again: more
      information is more information,\r\nand more information is a larger file, so
      resolution remains relevant. one of the peculiar platform-specific ways to define
      it during the working process is ppi.\r\n\r\nmaybe for webbies the \"relevant\"
      issue is bandwidth. i could say bandwidth is irrelevant to print, but i see
      bandwidth and ppi resolution as related in the larger issue of \r\n\"data density
      per delivery unit\". \r\n\r\nand if i'm delivering huge print files online,
      bandwidth becomes temporarily relevant to that process, addressed not by altering
      the files but by assuring that my tools and connections can handle the job.
      so it's all relevant, relatively, depending on your role in the process."
    children:
    - author:
        name: elliot100
        picture: 110615
      body: "Ch... sorry to say this, but judging by your first paragraph you haven't
        grasped this at all.\r\n\r\nTrying to avoid the word \"resolution\": Your
        huge images won't display the same as the small ones. Of course you convert
        your original images into smaller ones for the web, otherwise they wouldn't
        fit on the screen and as you say would take a long time to download.\r\n\r\nI
        think actually working this through from an original digital photo to a small
        image in a web page may help."
      created: '2007-03-03 17:20:05'
    - author:
        name: Florian Hardwig
        picture: 112260
      body: "It has all been said here before \u2026 by aluminium, by Sebastian. But
        Ch, you still didn\u2019t get it. Sorry. ;) So I\u2019ll give it another try.\r\n<cite>\u201Cmore
        information is more information\u201D</cite>\r\n100px &times; 100px. <em>That\u2019s</em>
        the information.\r\n100px &times; 100px @ 72dpi = 100px &times; 100px @ 300dpi.
        It. Is. The. Same. (On the web.) Same file size, same bandwidth.\r\nThe web
        doesn\u2019t know about inches. There is no density to choose."
      children:
      - author:
          name: Ch
          picture: 112205
        body: "what's up with you guys ? i understand what you're saying, but you
          seem not to understand what i'm saying. i'm not debating your web facts,
          i'm debating the \r\nappropriate use of the term \"relevant\".\r\n\r\n>>Of
          course you convert your original images into smaller ones for the web, \r\n>>otherwise
          they wouldn\u2019t fit on the screen and as you say would take a long time
          to >>download.\r\n\r\nthat's exactly what i'm saying! on my end that involves
          ppi resolution! so we agree?\r\n\r\n>>\u201Cmore information is more information\u201D\r\n>>100px
          \xD7 100px. That\u2019s the information.\r\n\r\nyeah, EVENTUALLY, but here
          upstream ppi also represents real information. information seems to be defined
          differently at different platforms in the process. \r\nyou've preferenced
          your definition of information over mine. why in the name of odin should
          i ignore the term \"resolution\" ? my work is all about resolution! usually
          high data density elements that must be conformed down to lower resolution
          media.\r\n\r\n>>There is no density to choose.\r\n\r\n??? says who ? on
          your end, maybe because density (in the plastic sense) is fixed and meaningful
          only according to the end user's monitor, but on my end NO, there IS density
          to choose, and tweak, so i can prepare YOUR end to discard it with optimal
          results ! \r\n(see above first quote from your post: \"of course you convert\").
          \r\n\r\ni understand there are no inches on the web (!!!!) and if i eventually
          define my image as 100 x 100 pixels the \"original\" dpi is thrown away.
          okay ? got it. \r\n\r\nread this: I UNDERSTAND.\r\n\r\nwhat i object to
          is the blanket statement that ppi is irrelevant. if the process includes
          it\r\nat any stage, it's relevant. granted this argument has included (on
          my part as well as others) some cross-terminology : dpi / ppi / resolution.\r\n\r\nyou
          say it's irrelevant, but i say the web equalizes \"resolution\" (in the
          \"print\" sense), \r\nbut file size is relevant across all platforms, and
          resolution - however defined - effects file size. don't tell me it doesn't
          unless you've figured out how to derive all your nutrition from air. i've
          heard that's possible..."
        children:
        - author:
            name: Ch
            picture: 112205
          body: "here's another way to explain it, for those of you who still care:\r\n\r\ni
            design a postcard for a client. the working file is relatively hi-rez,
            specified in photoshop as 6 inches by 4 inches at 600ppi. in pure pixels
            that's 3600x2400, with a file size \r\nof 24.7 M.   \"too big for the
            web\".\r\n\r\nnow i want to display it as close to \"actual size\" as
            i can on a web site. \r\nby actual size i mean apparent physical size,
            the way a postcard looks sitting in front of you.  right there is a chance
            for misunderstanding: you might say 3600x2400 is the actual size, \"but
            on the web it will be huge.\"\r\n\r\nbut i say \"postcard size\" is the
            actual size, and i want it to appear approximately \"life size\", knowing
            that it will vary somewhat, but within a tolerable range, from one monitor
            to another. so i reduce the image, in photoshop.\r\n\r\nmethod 1) maintaining
            6 inches by 4 inches but down to 96ppi (or 72ppi if you prefer).  the
            resulting file is now 576x384 pixels, weighing in at a more manageable
            648 K.\r\nit has also suffered noticable loss in resolution. \r\n\r\nmethod
            2) simply adjust the pixel size to 576x384, while maintaining 600ppi,\r\nbut
            the \"inches\" measure in photoshop drops to .96 x .64 - again, detail
            (information) \r\nis lost. it's not the same file size, nor is it the
            same resolution.\r\n\r\ni'd appreciate some restraint, if not an apology,
            in the \"you just don't get it\" department. \r\ni get it, i got it, i'm
            gonna go get some more of it. "
          children:
          - author:
              name: Florian Hardwig
              picture: 112260
            body: "Ch, you got it! Get a hug, too. :)\r\nSo we answered the question
              of this thread, which was \u201CIs dpi relevant to web graphics?\u201D.
              No, it isn\u2019t. You proved it with providing methods 1 and 2, both
              leading to the same result \u2013 as far as web is concerned.\r\nHooray!"
            created: '2007-03-04 00:55:17'
          created: '2007-03-03 23:44:11'
        created: '2007-03-03 19:07:49'
      created: '2007-03-03 17:32:16'
    created: '2007-03-03 15:47:27'
  created: '2007-03-03 10:00:56'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>When people say they can\u2019t control how their content is displayed
    on the internet, that\u2019s just wrong. They can not control the total size of
    there website in inches, but they can do it very exactly in pixels. Assuming that
    every user has a display that fits his needs in certain circumstances (desktop,
    laptop, mobile phone), this means that your website reaches the viewers eye as
    intended. If somebody looks at his 160ppi-iPhone at the same distance he uses
    his 23\u201D desktop monitor, it is *his* problem. It\u2019s the same thing as
    if someone does not uses his glasses, and complains that he can\u2019t read this
    small printed type.</cite>\r\n\r\nPlus most browsers allow you to scale up or
    down. Which of course makes even WYSIWYG irrelevant... I had an older web client
    with bad eyes who made me design everything HUGE. I tried encouraging him to up
    the size in his browser instead but he was such an egomaniac that he thought his
    eyes were fine and everything else was just too small."
  created: '2007-03-03 15:44:29'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Ch, now I get what you want to say :)\r\n\r\nMethod 1 would be my choice
    if I wanted to present the postcard same size as printed (with variation) on screen.\r\nBut
    is this the usual task on webpages, to resemble the size of a printed object in
    inches on screen? Usually, when I do one of my rare web jobs, I start with lets
    say 800 pixels in width of white screen (my \"artboard\"). Maybe I want to show
    a picture, and a small text column next to it. So I say: \"Picture gets 500px
    width, so text column will get 300px\". I take the original picture delivered
    by my digital camera (it has 3000px width) and resize it to 500px width. Then
    I save it and integrate it to the code. When I look at the web page, the picture
    will be displayed 500px width.\r\nWhat I want to say: If I prepare a picture for
    web, I don't have to look at or care about the ppi-value, all that counts is pixel
    dimensions (resolution), as browsers will display the picture 1:1 on screen.\r\n\r\n\r\nWhat
    I do not understand yet is why you think the resulting file size or resolution
    (pixel dimensions) of method 2 won't be the same as with method one. They have
    exactly the same amount of pixels, therefore the same amount of information (detail)
    is lost, and the filesize will be the same.\r\nWhat is different is the ppi-relation.
    Browsers don't care about that, and even if you print directly from browser, it
    tries to imitate what is displayed on screen. But if someone took those two pictures,
    opens them in photoshop or another print orientated program, and prints them (or
    places them in Indesign right as they are), they would be different sizes (in
    inches). For method 1, the picture would be large, but grainy. For method 2, it
    would be small, but crisp. Its the same information in both of the pictures, but
    the ppi-value tells on which area this information is distributed.\r\n\r\n\r\nSo,
    if you want to reproduce a printed object on screen, it is wise to use method
    1 if you want to give the viewer a hint how large the image should be in inches
    (if he takes the picture to photoshop and print it, he will know exactly, but
    get a grainy image). So setting the ppi value to 96 and therefore maintain the
    original printed size in inches is better than resizing pixel dimensions, resulting
    in same ppi, but smaller inch size. What will be the same with both methods is
    the amount of information that is left.\r\nBut, if you just design virtual images
    for virtual space, without resemble the size of a physical object, pixel dimensions
    is all what counts."
  created: '2007-03-04 01:12:20'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Which is why we use 72 (or 96) dpi/ppi as our setting when we design for
    the web, so that what we are actually looking at - in Photoshop, Dreamweaver,
    GoLive, whatever our tool is - appears the same size as it will appear in the
    browser. \r\n\r\nSo... dpi is in fact relevant. Nobody in their right mind would
    design for the web at 600 ppi even if the actual pixel dimensions are the same."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Sebastian Nagel
      picture: 109594
    body: "\"Which is why we use 72 (or 96) dpi/ppi as our setting when we design
      for the web, so that what we are actually looking at - in Photoshop, Dreamweaver,
      GoLive, whatever our tool is - appears the same size as it will appear in the
      browser.\"\r\n\r\n\r\nWhy not work with \"view --> actual pixels\" (or just
      100% zoom in navigator)?\r\n\r\nIt simply shows all pixels of an image, so it's
      the same way as a browser (or dreamweaver, golive, ...) would do. And it doesn't
      matter what ppi value is set. If you try it with a 100*100px image at 96ppi,
      and the same 100*100px at 300ppi, it will show exactly the same size in photoshop
      at \"actual pixels (100%)\" (i just tried it in photoshop CS2).\r\nIt would
      be different size if you switch to \"view --> print size\", as here, Photoshop
      simulates the size it will have in print (using the set ppi-value, and assuming
      your screen has the same resolution as set in your operating system). But in
      this mode, it can't display all the pixels, as the screen just has 96 per inch,
      not 300. So for screen display, it interpolates (that's okay).\r\nYou could
      say \"actual pixels\" is the web-mode of Photoshop, and \"print size\" is the
      print-mode.\r\n\r\nWhich doesn't mean that you should not use the value of 96ppi
      when doing web graphics. It's logically correct to do so (well it would be if
      everybody had a 96ppi-display). But it doesn't matter at all in real world if
      you don't.\r\n\r\n\r\nYes, this thread is still going on, but I think we are
      coming to an end :)\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-03-04 10:51:52'
  created: '2007-03-04 06:07:28'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: Dear god, is this thread still going!?!
  created: '2007-03-04 06:39:49'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: ">>\u2013 as far as web is concerned.\r\n\r\noh dear florian, i'm afraid you
    just didn't get it. ;-)\r\n\r\nyou see this thread began in a previous one about
    resumes, resizing images for websites, and what happens when you force many pixels
    down into fewer pixels, uprez and downrez, until someone said dpi is irrelevant
    to the web, which i took to mean ppi and by extension resolution itself, so i
    disagreed, and we began using essentially the SAME example to prove opposite \"stated
    conclusions\".\r\n\r\nsomewhere in there the thread was renamed, not by me. i
    would've called it: \r\n\"is resolution relevant to the web ?\" implying (i assumed)
    \"on its way to the web\". \r\nit might have made more sense if i had repeated
    \"less information is less information\" meaning \"information loss can affect
    digital images\" and the answer is still yes.\r\nhooray ! \r\n\r\n>>I do not understand
    yet is why you think the resulting file size or resolution (pixel >>dimensions)
    of method 2 won\u2019t be the same as with method one.\r\n\r\ni didn't mean to
    suggest they are different. i was saying both are less information, producing
    lossy reductions, but i can tweak them further (at the smaller size) to improve
    their appearance. i mentioned one technique. \r\n\r\nmaybe my point seems more
    philosophical than technical, but i don't think so,\r\nas my work examples describe.
    ultimately, if you narrow your definition of relevance strictly to the final platform,
    what isn't there just isn't there. i understand that. but if you've ever missed
    someone, you know that absence is its own kind of presence.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nosound_3469.jpg]\r\n\r\nthe
    other half of the discussion might be: \"are pixels relevant to print ?\" and
    i would say:\r\n\"if your workflow includes a computer, yes\".  now, is coffee
    relevant to surgery ?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-04 14:14:58'
- author:
    name: herbert
  body: "\u2026 \xAB"
  created: '2007-03-04 17:45:04'
- author:
    name: herbert
  body: HERE's how it works. 72 dpi and 300 dpi matter on the web, kind of. Everything
    will always be read by browsers as 72dpi. It is simply faster to server up. However,
    if someone chooses to print the web-page, their postcript printer will read from
    the original file and print its resolution accurately. Therefor, for important
    items(trademark, logotypes, etc..) create them as 300dpi, set html attributes
    shrink them to the required size for screen. A tiny bit of distortion may occur,
    but when the page is printed the 300dpi image will be cleaner than a 72dpi image.
  created: '2007-03-04 17:51:18'
- author:
    name: herbert
  body: 'things can be done at the stylesheet level. check out http://www.alistapart.com
    for help with stylesheets set up for print. '
  created: '2007-03-04 17:54:28'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "<cite>A tiny bit of distortion may occur</cite>\r\n\r\nI have not seen a
    browser which will interpolate downsized images on screen -- they tend to just
    throw lines of pixels away. Thus they look terrible. (Would be interested to know
    which browsers do interpolate).\r\n\r\n<cite>but when the page is printed the
    300dpi image will be cleaner than a 72dpi image.</cite>\r\n\r\nPossibly (I don't
    have a printer connected right now), but this is compromising on the screen display
    of a web page in order to improve the printed version, which seems a strange thing
    to do. I would have thought this also relies on the browser's print function,
    not the printer.\r\n\r\n<cite>things can be done at the stylesheet level. check
    out http://www.alistapart.com for help with stylesheets set up for print.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    may the specific article you're referring to:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.alistapart.com/articles/hiresprinting\r\n\r\nNote
    that this technique uses two separate versions of the same image - a low res version
    for screen and a high res version for print."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: ">>I have not seen a browser which will interpolate downsized images on
      screen \u2014 \r\n>>they tend to just throw lines of pixels away. Thus they
      look terrible. \r\n\r\nand you said i didn't get it ? - this is where i started
      !\r\n \r\na common point is found as opposing sightlines converge... "
    created: '2007-03-04 22:16:29'
  created: '2007-03-04 22:09:20'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "I don't understand you, Ch.\r\n\r\nI've just tested this on latest versions
    of IE, Opera and Firefox on a PC. I created an HTML page with the same large (4mp)
    photo shown twice - once without using any HTML size attributes, so it displays
    on screen at 1 image pixel to one screen pixel, and again with width and height
    set to 100px, so a small fraction of the original dimensions. The image had an
    inbuilt 180ppi value.\r\n\r\nResult onscreen:\r\n\r\nIn Firefox and IE, the smaller
    image appeared very blocky, as I said no downsampling/smoothing at all.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    in Opera the smaller image was smoothly rendered onscreen.\r\n\r\nResult in print
    (actually printed to a PDF, as I don't have a working printer. This also allowed
    me to zoom right in to the output):\r\n\r\nIn Firefox the result appeared the
    same as on screen, the small image appearing blocky, the large image bleeding
    right off the page. Both images printed at the same PPI, didn't respect the built
    in PPI.\r\n\r\nIn IE again the small image appeared blocky, but the large image
    was scaled to the width of the page (perhaps automatic in IE when no width/height
    attributes are specified?) Looks like the larger image printed at a higher PPI
    than the smaller, presumably according to the ratio the image had been shrunk
    to fit the width of he page, but not respecting its built in PPI.\r\n\r\nIn Opera
    the smaller image appeared exactly as per screen, ie smoothly rendered, but due
    to its downsampling, not by being printed at a higher PPI. The larger image appeared
    as in IE.\r\n\r\nWould be interested to see results in Safari/Konqueror (I don't
    think there's a similar browser on the PC)."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: ">>I don\u2019t understand you, Ch.\r\n\r\nnot that it matters anymore but
      just to recap for sheer entertainment value:\r\n\r\nwhile others were arguing
      the finer point that \"web doesn't see ppi\", i was arguing \r\nthe broader
      point that resolution always \"matters\" in digital imagery, and by extension
      (and example) that ppi (as a factor in original image quality) is \"relevant\"
      to the web, because:\r\n\r\nA) i routinely deal with huge images, 100's of megabytes,
      technically unsuitable for web.\r\nB) ppi factors into image prep for web if
      radical html downsizing is problematic (see >>).\r\nC) regardless of whether
      your monitor is closer to 72ppi or 96ppi, you have a \"fixed ppi\".\r\nD) maintaining
      or discarding ppi, the digital becomes the visual (resolution).\r\nE) ppi resides
      \"upstream\" as a relevant aspect of the image history, mainly if it was huge.\r\nmy
      sense of image quality includes what it was before, if it changed, especially
      if noticably reduced in quality.\r\n\r\n>>the smaller image appeared very blocky\r\n>>the
      small image appearing blocky, the large image bleeding right off the page. \r\n>>Both
      images printed at the same PPI, didn\u2019t respect the built in PPI.\r\n>>again
      the small image appeared blocky\r\n>>but not respecting its built in PPI.\r\n>>but
      due to its downsampling, not by being printed at a higher PPI.\r\n\r\nall the
      above support my case.\r\n\r\nlogical problems ensued with the conflation of
      dpi and ppi, and just to add sweet irony to the thread history, i see now that
      the statement \"html doesn't see ppi\" was the essential fact behind BOTH arguments
      FOR and AGAINST \"relevance\". in other words, web experts were saying: \"ppi
      is irrelevant because it's discarded\", but i was (sort of) saying: \r\n\"because
      it's discarded it's relevant!\". hooray indeed. point of view. i still want
      an apology from the purveyor of \"you just don't get it\". that's uncalled for
      in a comparison of points of view.   ....although i did let out one good ARRGGHH.\r\n\r\nbased
      on this entire discussion i sense that my hybrid understanding of \"resolution\"
      and \"relevance\" are informed by working mainly in video, where scaling, interpolation,
      resolution, and software options have their own peculiar problems. \r\n\r\ni
      see this thread's been relocated to the technical \"build\" forum, which makes
      my definition of \"relevance\" after the fact seem too masonic for the masons
      so i'll just hope somebody at the afterparty bar \"gets it\". drinks are on
      me.\r\n\r\n\"Let every eye negotiate for itself\" - Shakespeare, Much Ado About
      Nothing\r\n\r\npeace."
    created: '2007-03-05 10:16:34'
  created: '2007-03-04 22:55:19'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "\"Would be interested to see results in Safari/Konqueror (I don\u2019t think
    there\u2019s a similar browser on the PC).\"\r\n\r\nThere will be quite soon...
    A beta version of a windows browser based on apple's webkit (--> thus konqueror)
    is out there... forgot about the name, but if it's ready, I guess you'll notice."
  created: '2007-03-05 02:42:18'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "I've actually got Konqueror on Ubuntu on VMware on Windows -- I should test
    that as well, I don't think the platform is relevant, just the app.\r\n\r\nSorry
    if I offended you Ch. I think I misunderstood your point."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "no offense really, just obsession. but thanks.\r\n"
    created: '2007-03-05 13:33:40'
  created: '2007-03-05 12:14:44'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "Chris, it's sad to start the week seeing this topic drawing to a close. Your
    whimsical interjections, and the crazy way this thing kept going in circles, kept
    me very entertained for the last several days. \r\n\r\nYes coffee is relevant
    to surgery. Are tomatoes a fruit or vegetable?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: fruitables !
    created: '2007-03-05 14:38:21'
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "it was good clean fun\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/okay_3729.jpg]"
    created: '2007-03-05 14:38:46'
  created: '2007-03-05 14:08:05'
- author:
    name: Thylacine
    picture: 112146
  body: "I know I'm late jumping into this, but...\r\n\r\nPPI and DPI are very different
    things that often get confused.\r\n\r\nDPI, or dots per inch, is a printing term
    that refers to the number of dots per linear inch in a printed halftone or screentint.
    (I'm ignoring lines per inch for the sake of simplicity.) If you print a photo
    at 150 dpi, that means that if you get out a magnifying glass and count the dots,
    you'll find 150 of them per inch in each row.\r\n\r\nThe general rule is that
    it takes 1.5 to 2 pixels of data in a digital file to accurately produce one halftone
    dot. In other words, a photograph that will print at 150 dots per inch will require
    a digital photo with enough pixels to fill the space when printed  at 300 pixels
    per inch (pip).\r\n\r\nIt's wrong to think of ppi as being related to the file
    size or as being some kind of inherent quality having to do with a particular
    photo. What really matters are the number of pixels in the photo itself. A 1,000-pixel-wide
    photo, for example, can print or display at any ppi you'd like, but its dimensions
    will change; for example, on a monitor that displays 100 pixels per inch, the
    photo would be 10 inches wide. If the monitor displayed 1,000 pixels per inch,
    the photo would be 1 inch wide.\r\n\r\nThe number of pixels displayed by the monitor
    is sometimes referred to as its resolution. Most monitors are capable of various
    resolutions depending on how many pixels you'd like to see on the screen. The
    higher the resolution of the monitor, the smaller the objects will appear to be
    on the screen, because the number of pixels being forced into, say, a one inch
    measurement increases.\r\n\r\nWhen preparing photos for the Web, pixels per inch
    are not really something to be concerned with. The resolution of a person's monitor,
    as mentioned above, decides how many pixels it can display per inch. What really
    counts are the dimensions of the photo in pixels &#8212; a 300-pixel-wide photo
    will appear smaller on a higher-resolution monitor and larger on a lower-resolution
    monitor. Again, this is because the monitor is set to display a certain number
    of pixels per inch.\r\n\r\nIn Photoshop, the whole pixels per inch thing can really
    be ignored if you're preparing material for screen resolutions. Like I said, the
    only thing that counts is if you have enough pixels in the image to fill the space.
    It doesn't really matter on the Web if the document is set up at 10,000 ppi or
    2 ppi, it's all the same as long as you have enough pixels to fill the space.
    Pixels per inch (PPI) refers to how many pixels will be displayed in a linear
    inch on whatever medium you're outputting the file to, whether this is print or
    on a monitor. Another way to think about it is that PPI refers to the resolution
    requirements of the output, whether print or monitor.\r\n\r\nAnd like I said,
    the pixels per inch on the monitor are predetermined by its resolution settings,
    so it's not a concern when designing exclusively for monitor display (like the
    Web). There, you just need to think in terms of total pixels, not pixels per inch.
    In print, however, PPI is a factor, of sorts, because of the relationship between
    the pixels per inch and the halftone dot frequency (DPI) and the resolution of
    the output device. Even there, it would be totally possible to ignore the PPI
    if you were sure you had enough pixels in the image to do the job, but working
    with pixels per inch eliminates some of the math and just makes it easier. And,
    of course, the print world is built around inches, picas, centimeters and other
    hard measurements, not pixels. \r\n\r\nAnyway, when working with most desktop
    publishing apps from Quark to Photoshop, they assume that you're thinking in terms
    of PPI, so lots of their dialogue boxes are phrased around that assumption, so
    it's important. Again, though, it's not a factor when designing for the Web --
    there, think only in terms of pixel dimensions, not pixels per inch. Unlike the
    print world, monitors just aren't built around displaying things in terms of inches
    &#8212; it's pixels that count. The whole 72-ppi or 96-ppi resolution of monitors,
    in practical terms, is something that can be ignored when preparing images for
    the Web.\r\n\r\nThis whole concept is fairly easy to understand once it clicks.
    Explaining it in an understandable way, however, is difficult."
  created: '2007-03-07 00:57:04'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"HERE\u2019s how it works. 72 dpi and 300 dpi matter on the web, kind of.\"\r\n\r\nDon't
    mess things up Herbert...everyone was almost in agreement! ;o)\r\n\r\nYou are
    correct, you can take a large-pixel image and shrink it on screen via HTML. That
    will make the printed output much higher resolution *in some browsers*. But, that's
    a PRINT issue...not a web issue. It's also not a DPI setting within photoshop
    or the like. And, it'd a bit silly to design your web page for print anyways.
    If you want that, just make a PDF at whatever resolution you want and upload that
    instead.\r\n\r\nThis thread won't die. ;o)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-07 17:32:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"And, it\u2019d [be] a bit silly to design your web page for print anyways.
    If you want that, just make a PDF at whatever resolution you want and upload that
    instead.\"\r\n\r\nYes it would, (be a bit silly to design your web page for print),
    but should you need to, isn't it comforting to know that type technology can make
    fonts that scale as well or better than graphics?"
  created: '2007-03-09 11:30:18'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"but should you need to, isn\u2019t it comforting to know that type technology
    can make fonts that scale as well or better than graphics?\"\r\n\r\nUmm...yea.
    Of course. Not sure what that has to do with the issue of image DPI settings,
    though."
  created: '2007-03-09 14:35:32'
- author:
    name: Wia
  body: "Do you know this site: www.scantips.com/no72dpi.html (Say no to 72 dpi)\r\nAnd
    maybe I can help some people with my article: Misunderstandings about dpi - www.dpiphoto.eu/dpi.htm
    \ "
  created: '2007-07-18 00:22:36'
date: '2007-03-01 20:05:30'
title: Is dpi relevant to web graphics?

---
