---
author:
  name: AndrewSipe
  picture: 109430
body: "If you were building the ultimate font management software what features would
  you add?\r\n\r\nMy suggestions will be based on Extensis Suitcase for Windows, the
  \"Missing Features\" and design changes:\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2022I love the simplistic
  approach Suitcase takes, but it's missing features that seem apparent to me? Such
  as, Drag and Drop file management, in the key of iTunes. It creates a data base/file
  management system without me having to keep up with it. \r\n\r\n\u2022To be able
  to maintain rich data about the fonts I use, including Foundry, Style and Family
  and any other information that I'd find useful for finding and using my fonts. I
  could sort through on demand by columns such as name, styles, weights, foundry,
  designer, category or whatever. Such as sorting all the sans serif fonts by simply
  clicking a tab/column that would make life so much easier.\r\n\r\n\u2022A quick
  \"Mix\" feature using keywords or drag and drop to create \"Sets\". Just like iTunes.\r\n\r\n\u2022A
  character counter for quick viewing and a detailed pop-out character map. Since
  the advent of OpenType, Character maps can get up into the 1000s for a single font,
  it would be nice to see all of those characters before activating a font.\r\n\r\n\u2022Font
  Management should appear easy, I feel as if I do a lot of \"maintenance\" outside
  of the software and that should be the softwares job. \r\n\r\nI'd like to hear what
  some of your thoughts are for features you'd like to see.\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: nickfruhling
    picture: 111404
  body: "A lot of those things are addressed in the fantastic, and free, <a href=http://www.linotype.com/fontexplorerX>Font
    Explorer</a> from Linotype.\r\n\r\nAnd they're working on the Windows version...\r\n---\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-02 19:50:47'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "They've been working on that for awhile now. Still that's not the point of
    the topic. What kind of features are missing from the current crop of font management
    tools that the elite font users would like to see included. \r\n\r\nIf you had
    the money/power/programming skills what would you include?"
  created: '2007-03-02 19:59:43'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I really have no complaints about Font Explorer. It's attractive (much more
    so than Fontbook) and seems to have all the features I require. I guess it's not
    always easy to track down foundry detail - which was a nice feature of Font Reserve
    - but that isn't that important to me.\r\n\r\nIt would be nice to be able to sort
    by style without having to create sets like I do, but that would probably require
    the foundries to tag their fonts. \r\n\r\nWhen I installed Font Explorer I basically
    devoted most of a day to creating sets that were useful to me. Every now and then
    I decide to add a new set and have to page through thousands of fonts to find
    ones that fit the categories. But basically, as in iTunes, once you set it up
    then as you add new fonts it's pretty easy to maintain.\r\n\r\nAnd, as mentioned
    above, it's free! Plus unlike iTunes it doesn't direct you to a store every chance
    it gets."
  created: '2007-03-02 20:08:38'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>It would be nice to be able to sort by style without having to create
    sets like I do, but that would probably require the foundries to tag their fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm
    in a windows environment, so I don't have access to Font Explorer, which sounds
    like a much better application than Suitcase. Regardless, I think a lot of the
    \"font management\" apps out there don't actually give much help in the way of
    managing one's fonts. \r\n\r\nExample: I collect fonts piecemeal. I try to organize
    them into folders on my hard drive based on Foundry, and then add them to Suitcase
    creating Sets based on that font;s Style. It's a laborious process that If I would
    accidentally delete a set, I'm pretty much screwed till I find the time to \"re-manage\"
    my font collection. \r\n\r\nIf the actual software keep track of my fonts for
    me, this wouldn't be much of an issue, and then if I could set-up a keywords/tags
    for specific fonts to help me find them faster, that would be another piece in
    the management issue I have with Suitcase. \r\n\r\nIn essence, Suitcase isn't
    a font management application, it's a font activation tool and that's about it's
    limits."
  created: '2007-03-02 20:34:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Many font management tools are restricted by the hooks and services the OS's
    provide so, please don't limit suggestions to what's techncially possible at the
    application layer. Ideas around OS-level hooks and services would be helpful too.
    \r\n\r\nAn example. Sophisticated font version control - Session based activation
    of specific font versions on a per application or even per document basis - for
    when you absolutely need Comic Sans MS version 2.01 and not 2.03.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si  "
  created: '2007-03-02 21:24:42'
- author:
    name: Marc C
    picture: 112221
  body: "When I began, I was whit ATM and I liked it, after whit the OS X we cant
    use ATM and I change for suitcase, I had hated this software !!!! Now two weeks
    ago I changed for fontexplorer, right now I cant said I loved it but its better
    than suitcase.\r\n\r\nJust my opinion"
  created: '2007-03-02 21:28:11'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: Sii, that's a great idea. Especially if it could maintain multiple versions
    across multiple foundries. Is that a Monotype version or a Linotype version?
  created: '2007-03-02 21:35:46'
- author:
    name: filip blazek
    picture: 110363
  body: "I was looking forward to download the new version of Suitcase for Windows
    but I am little bit disappointed now. The application is now <strong>really</strong>
    fast, there is an InDesign auto activation plugin, but I still miss many features:\r\n\r\n-
    font searching\r\n- subfolders inside folders allowing more detailed grouping
    of fonts\r\n- custom labels and rating of fonts\r\n- font family grouping\r\n-
    sophisticated preview of glyphs (based on encodings, unicode sets etc.)\r\n- intelligent
    management of duplicate fonts and their versions\r\n- possibility to print many
    different specimens\r\n\r\nIn the future I would like to have the possibility
    to find the appropriate fonts according font style, year of creation, author,
    language covered in glyph set, OT features, similarity etc.  "
  created: '2007-03-02 21:47:02'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>And, as mentioned above, it\u2019s free! Plus unlike iTunes it doesn\u2019t
    direct you to a store every chance it gets.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't mean to hijack
    this thread, but <a href=\"http://www.macosxhints.com/article.php?story=20040429122915489\">this
    hint</a> explains a way to convert all of those iTunes arrow links so that they
    lead not to the store, but to very useful views of your own music library. Once
    you've done that, iTunes doesn't put any more commercial pressure on you than
    Font Explorer. "
  created: '2007-03-02 22:58:11'
- author:
    name: mjpatrick
    picture: 111908
  body: "I like the ability to type in sample text and *quickly* cycle through the
    different typefaces, either with the scroll wheel or arrow keys. So I'm very happy
    with FontExplorer X on the Macs I have, and Font Reserve for the PC. \r\n\r\nFR
    for the PC hasn't been updated for ages and isn't very pretty, but it does exactly
    what I want it to do: quickly enter text samples and scroll through the fonts
    I have with lightning-like speed. It's very different from the last Mac version
    of FR I used where I had to click on each font to preview the sample (to hell
    with that)."
  created: '2007-03-03 00:46:18'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I also like in Font Explorer that you can start to type in the font name
    and it leaps to the font. Font Reserve didn't have that feature.\r\n\r\nI also
    realized that Font Explorer DOES have the detailed foundry info I thought it didn't.
    I just learned, for example, that Asswipe is pronounced \"Ah-swee-pay\". Ya gotta
    love a font management software that gives you that kind of info!"
  created: '2007-03-03 03:53:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "My perfect app would be Font Explorer with better capabilities for identifying
    and fixing corrupt fonts, and the ability to block all system fonts from appearing
    in Application font menu. Like Andrew, I don't even bother managing fonts; with
    spotlight there's no need worry about that anymore, so what I really need is software
    that addresses:\r\n\r\n- Apple including a bunch of non-English fonts with the
    English OS X install and Adobe's apps refusing to run without them.\r\n- Apple
    sticking duplicates of system fonts into my home directory.\r\n- Poorly designed
    software that just dumps fonts into the system fonts directory so that I have
    to deal with them in every program I have. "
  created: '2007-03-03 04:54:08'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>Like Andrew, I don\u2019t even bother managing fonts; with spotlight
    there\u2019s no need worry about that anymore</cite>\r\n\r\nReally? How does spotlight
    help you manage fonts? Can it automatically activate fonts when you open an application
    - and deactivate them when you close it? Sort your fonts by style? Create a set
    that shows you to view all your sans serifs at once? Allow you to type in text
    for a preview? Give you a character map? I'm baffled."
  created: '2007-03-03 05:36:06'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Really? How does spotlight help you manage fonts?</cite>\r\n\r\nI was
    referring to Andrew's comment:\r\n\r\n<cite>In essence, Suitcase isn\u2019t a
    font management application, it\u2019s a font activation tool and that\u2019s
    about it\u2019s limits.</cite>\r\n\r\nI use FontExplorer similarly. The software
    is just there for activating fonts, but when it comes to actually managing the
    fonts I usually just use spotlight to grab a file by name and fire it up, as opposed
    to the old method of just dumping every single font into a management app and
    dealing with them all that way. I don't really do much with sets; most of the
    sets I've set up only became sets because FontExplorer does it automatically when
    I add families, it isn't something I need to do on my own. As for type previews,
    I don't find myself using that feature very often because just seeing the words
    set in FontExplorer is usually too detached from context to be especially helpful. "
  created: '2007-03-03 06:37:10'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "I would like the speed of Suitcase, which I find to be fantastic!, with the
    previews of Font Expert, with the way Font Agent Pro for Windows handles the proper
    sorting of fonts, handling duplicates, etc.  Please pardon my punctuation.\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2007-03-03 06:39:34'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "I'm really suprised that no one else wants control of OpenType layout. I
    would like to be able to control which OTF features where being used when viewing
    a specimen. \r\n\r\n<cite>Sophisticated font version control - Session based activation
    of specific font versions on a per application or even per document basis - for
    when you absolutely need Comic Sans MS version 2.01 and not 2.03.</cite>\r\n\r\nsii,
    as far as I know Suitcase is the only font manager that really addresses this
    issue. The new Suitcase for Windows implements the same Font Sense technology
    from Suitcase Fusion. When a font is added to the database, a unique identifier
    is created based on several values within the font. It's similar to a checksum.
    During auto-activation, this can be used to distinguish between different fonts
    of the same name. \r\n\r\nThe other advantage of Font Sense is that it could be
    used to match up metadata. I wish Suitcase had a good way to import/export metadata.
    I  think I want everything filip blazek lists. Lots of metadata-- the ability
    to sort and group by metadata--and the ability to share it. \r\n\r\nA related
    feature that I consider critical is the ability to back up data. There's no point
    creating a bunch of sets and adding metadata if I don't have the ability to back
    up this effort or  migrate it to a new system. I probably replace my laptop every
    18 months. I back it up once a month. If my current hd dies, I know  that I can
    restore my setup. On  Suitcase for Windows, this can now be accomplished by restoring
    the Vault to the same relative location. However, I consider  it a necessary feature
    for any font manager.\r\n\r\nIn the professional publishing world, some of these
    features are accomodated by client/server font management solutions like Font
    Reserve Server. "
  created: '2007-03-03 07:27:21'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>A related feature that I consider critical is the ability to back up
    data. There\u2019s no point creating a bunch of sets and adding metadata if I
    don\u2019t have the ability to back up this effort or migrate it to a new system.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    agree, this is a major key point in font management, what's the point of putting
    all the effort and time into managing your fonts if in a short period of time
    you'll have to do it again to another computer. This would be especially helpful
    in terms of migrating data across multiple computer if you don't have a server
    system. Like in a school computer lab, everyone uses the same fonts, why can't
    they create a \"default\" group of sets and port them to all the computers that
    might not be setup on a server. \r\n\r\n<cite> In the professional publishing
    world, some of these features are accommodated by client/server font management
    solutions like Font Reserve Server.</cite>\r\n\r\nIdealistic, but not practical
    for the single user. "
  created: '2007-03-03 15:25:53'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "For Font Explorer I would assume (but have not tried) that if you bring all
    the application support - preferences, cache, etc that your sets would be preserved.
    I've certainly done that with other apps.\r\n\r\nIt's interesting the different
    things people look for in a font management tool. I honestly don't understand
    anyone who sees Font Explorer or Suitcase as just an activation tool, that is
    a limited use of a sophisticated application (altho I will point out that Andrew
    is using windows). As a designer I really rely on the sets I've set up as a starting
    point. I want to use a sans but am tired of falling back on TheSans or Scala so
    I browse thru my sans et voila, Abadi. Haven't used that in years.\r\n\r\nBut
    it just points up the different ways designers work I guess.\r\n\r\nI think that
    if you absolutely need Comic Sans - any version - you should consider switching
    careers."
  created: '2007-03-03 16:49:08'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "I'm on windows, Patty, but I agree with needing sets.  I have sets for styles,
    foundries and for each project.  It was worth the time I spent setting them up.\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2007-03-03 17:18:19'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>I\u2019m on windows, Patty, but I agree with needing sets. I have sets
    for styles, foundries and for each project. It was worth the time I spent setting
    them up.</cite>\r\n\r\nI might not have said it, but I use sets too. I have them
    currently for styles only: Sans, Serif, Rounded, Script and so on. My complaint
    isn't the ability to set these up, but that \"I\" have to set them up and maintain
    them, and if for some reason I delete said sets, I don't have them backed up anywhere
    and would essentially have to recommit the time and effort that I already committed
    to setting up new sets. In my eyes, that's not font management. It's a lot of
    work for a small part of the design process (no offense to the part fonts play
    in design, just the tool to get the fonts into the process.) \r\n\r\nAnd I am
    on a Windows system, which I've noted before has been shunned against by Extensis.
    I'm no dummy I can see all the great features available in Suitcase Fusion for
    Mac. Why can't I have those same features in my Windows version? "
  created: '2007-03-03 20:47:21'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: Well said, Andrew.
  created: '2007-03-03 23:47:36'
- author:
    name: Ruprecht
  body: How does Typograf font manager stack up against all these programs? I was
    looking on Linotype's site, and they have this too, although it's not free, but
    it sounds like it has a lot of the features people want. Does anyone have it,
    or have used it?
  created: '2007-03-04 04:52:33'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "My advice to you Andrew is DON'T DELETE THE SETS.\r\n\r\nJust kidding. As
    I said above, tho, more sophisticated tagging - i.e. that didn't require manual
    \ maintenance from the user - would require the foundries themselves to tag the
    fonts and it probably wouldn't be retroactive anyway to the fonts you already
    own. I don't see how you can expect a font management tool to instinctively \"know\"
    how to organize your fonts. I think categorizing your fonts is NOT a small part
    of the design process. It's a time commitment up front, when you first load the
    fonts in, but not a lot of work to maintain and update as you add new fonts. And
    if you don't delete them, there's no problem. \r\n\r\nYes it's nice that in iTunes
    a lot of the songs come already tagged by genre but personally I end up labeling
    them quite often myself. \r\n\r\nPersonally I prefer the option of making my own
    categories anyway."
  created: '2007-03-04 05:59:35'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "<em>\"A lot of those things are addressed in the fantastic, and free, Font
    Explorer from Linotype.\r\n\r\nAnd they\u2019re working on the Windows version\u2026\"</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    hilarious, \"they're working on the Windows version...\" Priceless. What, 2 years
    now and they're still working on it? Man, that's serious commitment to Windows
    users!\r\n\r\nWhat really pisses me off about this is that when (if) the Windows
    version comes out, I can never, ever use it out of stupid petty spite at how long
    the taunt of a Windows version has been just off in the distance.\r\n\r\nBlech,
    yeesh, I mean, <em>come on...</em>"
  created: '2007-03-04 06:45:18'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Well I think they still don't make Autocad for the Mac. \r\n\r\nSo all these
    poor architects are stuck using PCs for all these years.\r\n\r\nIt works both
    ways."
  created: '2007-03-04 16:22:22'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Touch\xE9 Patty, good point. (Although of course those \"poor\" and \"stuck\"
    jabs get me rankled.)\r\n\r\nps. Whoa, I just noticed on the main page preview
    (background text) that the \"\xE9\" in the line above got dropped, so the preview
    read:\r\n\r\n<em>Jason: Touch Patty, good point...</em>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/preview_4230.gif]\r\n&nbsp;\r\nHow
    come the background preview drops such characters? Flash can't handle accents?"
  created: '2007-03-04 18:28:30'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: Hey Mr. Topic Hi-Jacker... Nobody cares if Flash can't handle accents. Sorry,
    I'm trying to prevent the Resume-DPI scandle from happening again...
  created: '2007-03-05 01:29:41'
- author:
    name: Ruprecht
  body: hey nobody knows about typograf, the other program on linotype.com? Any users
    of that?
  created: '2007-03-05 01:57:58'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "I wasn't aware of it, till you brought it up, but from the description, it
    looks like you need to know German to use it (or at least understand how to use
    it.) \r\n\r\nIt might be worth starting a secondary topic asking the community
    what their thoughts are on Typograf. You'd probably have better luck getting more
    replies from our German members, than in this topic.\r\n\r\nEDIT: I clicked the
    link to download, and turns out I was wrong about needing to understand German.
    It's in English. Here's a better view of the program: <a href=\"http://www.neuber.com/typograph/index.html\">Typograf
    Font Program</a>\r\n\r\nIt looks like it has a good bit of features, including
    Character Maps. "
  created: '2007-03-05 13:53:51'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: Nice jab Andrew, I'll do my best to stay on point here (not sure why I'm so
    prone to splitting threads off in various directions...).
  created: '2007-03-05 19:15:05'
- author:
    name: "Littlepixel\u2122"
  body: "I would like user-based id3 style tagging in my font management tool so I
    can make custom groups/lists based on more disparate contextual or organic information.
    ie Cooper Black might include: Warm, EasyJet, Mit DR, Poster, rounded, Display,
    serif, Pet Sounds.\r\n\r\nI wrote a <a=\"http://www.littlepixel.info/?p=30\"/>blog
    post</a> about it a while ago actually;\r\n\r\n\r\nPS - I can't add my blog/site/podcast
    url to my profile on here 'cos this site thinks my '.info' domain is invalid.
    It clearly isn't!; Anyone got a clue how to get around that?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-06 01:08:32'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Well, I've played around with Typograf, and I can honestly say, it's a confusing
    mess that would require more involvement from my end than I'm currently interesting
    to invest. I will admit, it's feature laden.\r\n\r\nFrom the initial start up,
    I wasn't impressed with how the fonts were listed and viewed, I would have preferred
    a grouped listing that I could then \"expand\". One feature that caught my eye
    was the \"Typography\" link. Chocked full of information about such things as
    the History of Typeface, Type Classifications, Links to fonts on the web, descriptions
    of font technology and so on... If there's any reason to use this program it's
    for the help topics and information listed there."
  created: '2007-03-06 13:49:05'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "I stole this from Mr Miller's Post on this the Vista Topic <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/31902\">Node
    31902</a>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Untitled-6_4268_4102.gif]\r\n\r\n<em><p>Now
    this is really off topic, but since you question my software knowledge, I must
    clarify.</p>\r\n<p>The above image is currently what Photoshop CS 2 spits out
    on my PC. It looks similar for Microsoft products. Here&#8217;s the challenge
    / question: <strong>Why can&#8217;t this list, within any program using common
    user-interface elements, have an organizable folder-font list?</p></strong>\r\n<p>Back
    on subject, it seems Vista also spits out a linear list of fonts.</p></em>\r\n\r\nThat
    would be a great feature for font management software, control all contextual
    font menus and set up non-linear organization in those menus. Especially in regards
    to font naming and family grouping."
  created: '2007-03-06 15:39:36'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "I tried Typograf also and initially I had the same reaction.  It seemed confusing.
    \ However, after exploring it a little more, I fell in love with it.  There is
    an expanded Font Management area which allows the grouped listings you can expand.
    \ And the preview windows are amazing.  You have so many ways to view your fonts.
    \ It's very fast and it loads an icon with access to your font groups in windows
    startup.  Just click the icon and check which of your folders you want to install/uninstall.
    \r\n\r\nA couple of things I haven't figured out yet but I think I'll like it.\r\nLots
    of features for only $35.  \r\n\r\nSharon \r\n\r\nEdit:  Typograf also allows
    adding keywords to enhance searching although I haven't tried this yet."
  created: '2007-03-09 05:43:05'
date: '2007-03-02 17:53:14'
title: Font Management Software (by the users)

---
