---
author:
  name: copperfont
  picture: 109512
body: "Practically all of the paper assignments I get in school say that the font
  the paper is done in must be \"12 point Times\". Personally, I'm not a huge fan
  of Times; I respect it because of its widespread use but that's precisely the reason
  I'm not a huge fan of it. So I've almost always shirked this rule, without being
  reprimanded (well, not yet). I replace Times with Adobe Garamond; I find this font
  well-suited for papers. \r\n\r\nSo, does anyone else get this same requirement at
  all? Do you ignore it like I do? If so, what do you replace Times with?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: LOL - I once had to typeset the interior of a book for a publishing house
    - they LOVED Times Roman and didn't want to use it. So we set it in "Berling"
    -- LOL
  created: '2007-03-04 03:42:16'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: I used to replace Times New Roman with Minion MM. Never got a complaint.
  created: '2007-03-04 03:55:54'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: I'm too scared to do it for my strictly regulated papers, but I cringe every
    time I turn them in. I have a bit of typographic fun with the title page (Poetica
    anyone?), but that's about it for my essays. I might decide to use Lido STF now
    that I'm thinking about it; I can't imagine anyone noticing the change.
  created: '2007-03-04 04:15:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'You guys are total rebels! I bet you drive 4 miles over the speed limit too!  '
  created: '2007-03-04 04:36:04'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "No more than two , Si.\r\n\r\nWell, three if I'm in a crazy mood."
  created: '2007-03-04 05:20:30'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: http://fadtastic.net/2006/03/12/the-secret-lives-of-fonts/
  created: '2007-03-04 06:08:31'
- author:
    name: Jonathon
    picture: 111083
  body: I teach design and the reason I require 12 pt Times for papers is page length
    requirements. You are actually writing a longer paper when you set in it Garamond
    rather than Times because of the x height. If you are going to replace a font
    for a paper of required length, choose one that has a larger x height than Times
    that you can still get away with. And I would notice the change :)
  created: '2007-03-04 06:09:32'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I think the school "authorities" are trying to forestall papers submitted
    in Comic Sans, now can you blame them?
  created: '2007-03-04 06:09:42'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "I was really bad. I turned in papers set in Arial because the X-height is
    huge.\r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2007-03-04 06:14:22'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: Jonathon, I know that that's the reason why some of my courses require 12
    pt Times (as well as double spacing, .5 in. bottom and right margins, and 1 in.
    top and left margins), but it pains me to have to spoil my (hopefully) beautiful
    words with subpar design. I've resolved that if I ever teach, I'll let people
    send in their essays formatted however they want (extra points for proper leading)
    -- I'll just do a word count on the electronic versions.
  created: '2007-03-04 15:03:36'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I remember a metal Times that was quite beautiful. Maybe 12-point Monotype?
    14-point Monotype? It did require substantial leading. Long descenders were used.\r\n\r\nMoral.
    Get FontLab, or something simliar, & see what you can do. Lengthen the descenders,
    and maybe the ascenders a bit. Look at the contrast in the letterforms themselves,
    & adjust as needed. Maybe expand it just a touch. There use to be a Times Wide,
    but it was a bit too wide.\r\n\r\nBe sure you start with a font where the EULA
    permits this, of course."
  created: '2007-03-04 15:15:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I know I am getting to be a broken record on this, but here goes again:\r\n\r\nThe
    main problem with Times on letter sized paper is that the measure is too long.
    And if you make it big, Times is too black. So it never looks quite right in a
    single column on letter sized paper. \r\n\r\nIt can work very well in small sizes
    and shorter measures, which is what it was originally designed for. \r\n\r\nTo
    make a single column setting look good on letter sized paper you need a wider
    font than Times and bigger than usual margins, so that you bring the measure down
    to near the recommended 2 1/2 lc alphabet lengths.  "
  created: '2007-03-04 15:26:33'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "At least Times is a proportional font: when a friend of mine was doing his
    Ph.D just five years ago, the requirement for his dissertation was that it be
    set in 12 pt. Courier.  No bold allowed, underlining was encouraged, and only
    sparing use of italics was permitted. (I set up a suite of Word styles for him
    to use so he's got it right the first time.)\r\n\r\nI'm surprised they didn't
    make him do it on an old typewriter and produce the machine as proof that it hadn't
    been done on a computer.  :-("
  created: '2007-03-04 17:12:45'
- author:
    name: Action Hank
    picture: 111160
  body: "Lido--and perhaps something like Plantin as well--are similar enough to Times
    to satisfy both the demand for Times, and your own desire for something different.
    Taking a little bit of the leading and the margins will only improve it as well
    without upsetting anyone. However, keep in mind that few teachers actually look
    at the design of the paper, so your arguments, evidence and use of language are
    perhaps more worthy of your time in this case.\r\n\r\nFrom my own teaching and
    grading experience, the Times & double spacing rule is still a lot better than
    what most students (not design) come up with on their own. I think few teachers
    would actually mind typography that's an improvement over the standard rules,
    but what many students come up with just makes for even worse reading. Arial is
    not meant for 15 page-essays, and a sufficiently poor printer will make a poorly
    readable mess out of MT Garamond any day."
  created: '2007-03-04 19:51:21'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>and a sufficiently poor printer will make a poorly readable mess out
    of MT Garamond any day.</cite>\r\n\r\n. . . as will an offset press running 2400
    dpi with a direct-to-plate plate. Monotype made other compromises with it's Garamond
    in the digital version. The ascenders & descenders are too short; the italic needs
    some absent ligatures (gy, zy, etc.) All fixable (if you bought it long enough
    ago to have an old EULA). Maybe that's part of the \"Times\" requirement. "
  created: '2007-03-04 20:07:06'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Back to the original question. Is there any evidence that choosing a non-conformist
    font will result in better grades? I''m sure someone must have researched this?
    If not, my advice would be to use whichever font you find easiset to read and
    more importantly proof your work (maybe a well hinted screen-optimised font like
    Verdana or Arial), then print two copies, one in you favorite print font for your
    own records and one reformatted in Times. '
  created: '2007-03-04 21:57:58'
- author:
    name: copperfont
    picture: 109512
  body: 'I also had a suspicion that using a non-Times font (but also not Comic Sans)
    would result in improved grades, so it''s nice to see that some other people think
    the same way. Like the linked article in reply 6 said, I think it''s all a matter
    of novelty: a teacher/professor reading a hundred papers in Times New Roman will
    be pleased to see a paper written in a "similar" font. Of course, not Comic Sans,
    even though one of my teachers now favors Arial Narrow and allows us to submit
    papers in that font.'
  created: '2007-03-04 22:53:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Arial Narrow??? At what size? Makes my head hurt just to think of trying
    to read text in it.\r\n\r\nCourier was actually well designed to the spec of being
    a monospaced font that would fill a single column on letter sized paper with a
    good letter count at 1\" - 1 1/2\" margins. \r\n\r\nThere are certainly many more
    readable ways to go, but you can also do a lot worse. "
  created: '2007-03-04 23:32:45'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Courier was actually well designed to the spec of being a monospaced
    font that would fill a single column on letter sized paper with a good letter
    count at 1\u201D - 1 1/2\u201D margins.</em>\r\n\r\nBut that was a regulation
    dating back to the 50s, Bill -- one might think that after the turn of the century
    that they could update it a little.  I mean, geez, no bold but with underlining?
    \ :-(  \"Retro\" is one thing, but that's a little much...."
  created: '2007-03-05 01:51:01'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>Is there any evidence that choosing a non-conformist font will result
    in better grades?</cite>\r\n\r\nThat depends on how you define non-conformist.
    If a student turned in a paper in Zapf Chancery - or frankly, even Arial - I'd
    probably send them back to reprint it in a more eye-friendly font. I don't think
    you want to distract the prof from your writing by using a funky font or \"non-conformist\"
    design. If they notice the font at all, you probably have a problem."
  created: '2007-03-05 02:26:16'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: Thomas, LOL! All I can say is that it could be much much much worse... if
    you were studying with me at my institution, you would have already come across
    the requirement to submit postgraduate essays as MS Word .doc files (with default
    page sizes and margins) in nothing other than 10pt Arial.
  created: '2007-03-05 07:14:02'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Goodness. I just realized that if this question comes up here, it is likely
    for a design major.I like TNR more than most folks on the forum, but I think if
    I got such an uninspired layout from someone, I'd dock points just for using defaults.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nSeveral
    years ago, \"Someone I know\" wrote three essays on an identical subject, with
    approximately the same length, similar citations, and equal time and effort put
    into the mildly different outlines, drafts and finals. To complete the appearance
    of multiple authors, each was set differently. There was no printed style guidelines.
    One was TNR, one was Garamond, and the last was Verdana.\r\n\r\nThe deceit was
    never noticed by the teacher. The grades and comments were as follows:\r\n\r\nTimes
    New Roman: A \"Excellent notes\"\r\nGaramond(?): A \"Excellent\"\r\nVerdana: B+
    \"Hard 2 read - use a regular font.\"\r\n\r\nWhen I read that fadtastic.net article
    last week, it reminded me of those results back in Intro to Ethics.\r\n:)"
  created: '2007-03-05 08:54:28'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I just sent my roomate a link to this page and the above mentioned secret
    lives of fonts page.\r\n\r\nHe's two weeks away from graduating and is busting
    his butt finishing his final term papers, and I figure I owe him a favor. You
    see, I accidentally deleted Times New Roman off of his PC. \r\n\r\nI swear on
    all that is holy that it was an accident. Honest. But apparently he needs that
    font, because testing out the \"Can I use something other than TNR?\" theory doesn't
    pass muster when all you want to do is get it done with and pass. "
  created: '2007-03-05 09:53:17'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "<cite>I remember a metal Times that was quite beautiful.</cite>\r\n\r\nAmid
    all the offset-printed (and even laser-printed) digital Times, I actually love
    to see letterpress-printed metal Times these days. Especially the Monotype (?)
    version, without the silly nonkerning \"f\" of the Linotype.\r\n\r\n<cite>Moral.
    Get FontLab, or something simliar, & see what you can do.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn principle,
    I fully support this approach (because I see font \"tuning\" as part of the typographer's
    job). But wouldn't there be the danger of losing the presumably good hinting of
    Times New Roman? This might really matter in laser-printed school papers. Or does
    it only make a difference on-screen? And is just the TrueType version of Times
    New  Roman that has really good hinting? Anyone? I know very little about hinting.\r\n\r\n<cite>All
    fixable (if you bought it long enough ago to have an old EULA).</cite>\r\n\r\nCharles,
    do you have any idea how long ago that might be?\r\n\r\n<cite>To make a single
    column setting look good on letter sized paper you need a wider font than Times</cite>\r\n\r\nSome
    universities here in Finland prescribe Palatino, which would be better in this
    sense (though, for some reason, I've never been a big fan of it).\r\n\r\n<cite>One
    was TNR, one was Garamond, and the last was Verdana.</cite>\r\n\r\nChoz, what
    kind of Garamond?\r\n\r\nOlli"
  created: '2007-03-05 10:14:29'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Olli,\r\n\r\nAs to how old -- a number of our Monotype fonts were issued
    as PostScript Type 3 fonts. I don't really remember how long ago that was, but
    I don't think MGaramond  was one of those. Still, we got it about that time. We
    also have a bunch of fonts issued on 5-inch floppys . . .\r\n\r\nAs to hinting
    . . . Well, FontLab auto hint seems to work pretty well. Back when the only decent
    program font editing program was Fontographer, we found it messed up the hinting,
    so I always generated fonts without any hinting at all. Worked fine for bookwork,
    where the output was 1,000dpi or higher on repro paper. We did notice that if
    anybody put a snippet of the book on the web, it looked pretty bad. When I started
    working in FontLab, the snippets that wound up on the web looked a lot better.\r\n\r\nFontLab
    is an expensive program for a student, but if you're a <cite>design</cite> student,
    I don't see how you can get along without it. I don't mean just font designers,
    but anyone having to design using type."
  created: '2007-03-05 14:06:10'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "My professors always wanted TNR with 1 inch margins simply because it was
    easy to ensure everyone wrote within the length guidelines. \r\n\r\nHowever, once,
    in my \"Technical Writing Class\" (aka the cure for insomnia) I turned in the
    first draft of my formal report project -- which was all about improving the design
    of one of our major publications, and dumping the Arial currently used -- and
    for the report, I used the font (Parable) I was proposing for the redesign. The
    professor snarkily remarked that I shouldn't try to be \"original\" I should be
    using something \"normal\" like TNR. Bah. \r\n\r\nI received my lowest grade all
    year from that dude.\r\n\r\n(I admit to driving even 10 km over the speed limit
    \ *blush*) \r\n\r\nK."
  created: '2007-03-05 14:51:07'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "Charles,\r\n\r\nI do have FontLab (and Fontographer). I am a beginner, but
    so far, I haven't really noticed any difference between the original and FontLab-modified
    (autohinted) OpenType PS fonts, when printed on my not-so-good Brother laser.
    (But I haven't really done a systematic comparison.) I just sort of assumed that
    it might be different with really good hand-edited TT hinting.\r\n\r\nAs to the
    MT EULA: so they have changed it, disallowing modification, at some point? If
    so, I could envision trying to buy the old versions off someone, in case the EULA
    allows the licence to be transferred ...\r\n\r\nOll"
  created: '2007-03-05 14:54:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Kristina,\r\nI am sure your class  was taught by a lifelong technical editor.
    Some of those guys are notorious for sticking by anything resembling a rule. I
    think the worst of them dissallow anything unless you can you prove you have a
    printed rule which specifially says what you are doing is correct in the eyes
    of all things holy and secular in the world. I am surprised they did not mandate
    10 pitch typewriter double spaced on 25% rag content watermarked bond.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-05 16:09:36'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "Speaking as someone who sets paper assignments himself, I'm pretty sure that--as
    Thomas (above) may have been thinking--most instructors who specify fonts in the
    directions are trying to avoid students using Comic Sans or Copperplate Gothic
    to write a 10-page paper, and that most of those instructors in turn don't care
    if they ask for TNR and get Garamond, or Palatino/Bookman Antiqua, or Georgia.
    (This may be a holdover from the early days of desktop publishing, when too many
    people were stoked that they didn't have to settle for typewriter fonts, and instructors
    felt they needed to say something to prevent 10 pages of Monotype Corsiva.)\r\n\r\nThings
    may be different in design courses, though."
  created: '2007-03-05 16:11:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "On the issue of comparable length, there is a similar, and more hard-and
    -fast rule on screenplays: they must be in 12 pt Courier, with a standard formatting.
    \r\n\r\nThe format has stubbornly and rigidly persisted because then one page
    equals approximately one minute of screen time, which is an important measure
    for everybody. "
  created: '2007-03-05 16:39:05'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>Choz, what kind of Garamond?</em>\r\n\r\nI really tried to recall last
    night when posting, but could not. This was around 1998-1999, If there was a TrueType
    pack-in in any of Photoshop, Office or CorelDraw (5?), that would have been what
    was used.\r\n\r\nI wold have to say that Maurice has described the status quo
    rather well. Unfortunately, there are more than a few overly-anal teachers out
    there, who will dock for non-TNR, but this is countered by the fact that they
    can't tell it from Georgia. Which is probably what I would use to compromise these
    days.\r\n\r\nAnd there are some lay-folk who just hate sans. No joke."
  created: '2007-03-05 16:51:55'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Luckily I don't have, and never had, teachers that are so strict about the
    typeface. Last time I wrote a paper, I set it in FF Legato (with some bits and
    pieces in a serif, but can't remember which atm).\r\n \r\nThe teacher actually
    commented that he liked the typography. :)"
  created: '2007-03-06 17:35:03'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Haven't read the whole thread maybe someone else is as guilty as I am. \r\n\r\nI'm
    one of those teachers that required my students to use a specific typeface for
    their papers. At first it was a point size requirement -- when I was still a student.
    But then the students found typefaces which were huge at 12 pt -- I'm even guilty
    of this. So when I became a teacher -- as mean as this sounds -- I gave the students
    margins, point size, typeface and linespacing requirements. "
  created: '2007-03-06 17:49:14'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "When my mother was finishing her degree, she had a professor that would mark
    up the page with a template he had cut out and anything that fell outside of the
    template counted for automatic deductions. He was very strict in how your page
    was set up, and this was for a sociology degree, nothing to do with design. \r\n\r\nMy
    wife is working on her second degree in the medical field and she last year handed
    a paper in twice because it wasn't printed in the right font, that was more out
    of her own fear, but the teacher never commented either way, she actually lost
    the correct one and handed back the 'incorrect' one.\r\n\r\nBut speaking of TNR
    use at 12pts. This past month we've been dealing with a client that insists their
    annual report be set like that. They actually complained about it not being set
    in TNR to begin with. Some people have no sense for aesthetics."
  created: '2007-03-06 18:11:22'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: in HS i had page requirements, but i only remember word count requirements
    in college.
  created: '2007-03-06 18:17:34'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'BTW I dislike Times New Roman as much as the next person. For me it wasn''t
    for design reasons but to make sure the students were writing an honest amount.
    But, I wonder if some teachers might be guilty of being pedantic. '
  created: '2007-03-06 18:17:55'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I had word count requirements for my students also. '
  created: '2007-03-06 18:18:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Wordcount software is easy to find and comes with Word. It makes more sense
    than some pointsize and font rule. I taught before there was wordprocessing so
    I simply requested papers be typewritten but gave no strict margin regulation.
    I was more interested in the quality of the writing and the clarity of communication
    than formatting--this from a graphic designer. The papers I assigned were most
    often problem briefs and proposals for design solutions. I also had students write
    constructive critiques of eachother's work.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-06 18:33:06'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: For me, it was always word count, because some people would be guilty of changing
    margin sizes to get it to fit on the acceptable number of pages.
  created: '2007-03-06 18:33:21'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Yes, he was quite the teacher. Hours upon hours of going over whether or
    not to bold second level headers. I think that rather than try to teach us to
    think for ourselves about the logical progression across the different levels
    of headers, he was attempting to give us a fool-proof template, which would have
    been fine if he'd actually given us something... \r\n\r\nHowever, what it boiled
    down to was us taking copious notes on which point size, aligned where, caps or
    not, bold or not, all hastily sketched on the blackboard... If you deviated, it
    was *wrong* but then, he graded \"holistically\", so nothing was ever actually
    wrong, it was just not the way \"people often do it\" -- which was code for do
    it this way or die an ugly, painful death. It was near impossible to figure out
    how he arrived at a grade, because the answer was invariably \"I grade based on
    the whole of the work\", but he could never point to specific examples of error,
    only cases of \"it can be done this way, but I prefer the other\".\r\n\r\nApologies
    for the rant. Guess I'm still bitter... Folks like him shouldn't be teaching.
    He could have drawn up a sample document, labelled with all of the pertinent info,
    and handed that out to us--and I would have gotten *something* useful out of the
    course. Bah humbug.\r\n\r\nBut back on topic, I've also had profs who specify
    12 point TNR with 1 inch margins, a certain word length, page length and line
    spacing, and after I dutifully follow instructions and count my words with the
    software's feature, I discover that the specified word and page lengths don't
    jive! Bah humbug again. \r\n\r\nK."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Spire
      picture: 109705
    body: "<cite>But back on topic, I\u2019ve also had profs who specify 12 point
      TNR with 1 inch margins, a certain word length, page length and line spacing,
      and after I dutifully follow instructions and count my words with the software\u2019s
      feature, I discover that the specified word and page lengths don\u2019t jive!</cite>\r\n\r\nTimes
      New Roman is known to be insufficiently groovy to jive."
    created: '2007-03-06 20:07:13'
  created: '2007-03-06 18:51:02'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "As a designer, teacher, and publisher from a primarily English Lit background
    (I teach publication design, Creative Writing and English Lit), my scholarly experience
    (both as an undergrad and graduate student) and literary experience (as a writer,
    editor, publisher & teacher) have brought the default 12pt/TNR/double-spaced into
    play on a variety of fronts. \r\n\r\nAs has been discussed here, word-count is
    a factor primarily because it is asking too much of general Arts students (non-designers)
    to understand things such as x-height and metrics, and in the end it becomes too
    much trouble for the instructor to explain for the 1000th time why this font or
    that isn't appropriate, or how to use the word-count feature in Word, etc., so
    many instructors simply default to the 12pt/TNR/double-spaced \"standard\" for
    the sake of their own sanity.\r\n\r\nTechnical font issues are another factor
    that general Arts students can not be expected to grasp; that is, explaining that
    setting an essay in Adobe Garamond doesn't mean anything if the paper is being
    submitted electronically and the recipient doesn't have Adobe Garamond installed
    on their system. PDF is the obvious solution, but unless the student is on a fairly
    current Mac, it's unlikely they're going to have Acrobat Pro installed.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    more important, from the reader's position (teacher/editor/etc.), is the attempt
    at visual annonymity and \"fair play.\" We all know, as designers, that what the
    text looks like will influence how it is received, but this depends on the aesthetics
    and training of the writer, or lack thereof. As someone who is to judge the success
    of a text (essay, etc.), attempts by students at visual style simply tend to create
    an uneven playing field (uneven in the sense that it almost always hurts the student
    more than it helps).\r\n\r\nRelating to publishing, many editors I know absolutely
    insist on the 12pt/TNR/double-spaced default not only because it fits into their
    formula for estimating extent (should they chose to publish a given manuscript),
    but also because they want and need to focus on the content exclusively. If the
    text is accepted, the typescript will be handed off to a designer (hopefully),
    so design (at the evaluation stage) simply distracts.\r\n\r\nAs an editor of a
    small press myself, however, I encourage submitting writers to format their manuscripts
    how they think fitting, because I'm looking for writers who are aware of the effect
    typography/design has on the reception of texts. Most of the time this results
    in horrendous looking submissions, but, frankly, this makes my job easier as an
    editor when evaluating submissions: if the thing is mired in visual and typographic
    cliche, then I can be fairly certain that the writer hasn't had enough exposure
    to well made books to know what makes a well made book. Which means they don't
    read enough. And if they don't read enough, I seriously doubt their writing is
    going to appeal to me or stand up to editorial scrutiny.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand,
    as a teacher of English Lit, I need to keep the field as level as possible, because
    it is not part of the equation to judge first and second year students on their
    lack of aesthetic sophistication. Attempts at visual style, even the <em>option</em>
    to make such attempts, at this level, generally puts the student in a position
    of weakness which they have little chance of overcoming. The technical requirements
    alone are beyond most undergraduate students, let alone any real awareness of
    typographic convention or principle. Thus, what results are painful attempts at
    novelty as a desperate grasp for attention, and in such cases what tends to happen
    is that the essay not only <em>looks</em> weak, but this influence infects the
    content as well.\r\n\r\nThat said, I always hope for, and from time to time receive,
    papers from students who are in-tune (and brave) enough to format their papers
    in a different font that is well-suited both technically (x-height, characters-per-line,
    etc.) and visually (tone), and, to my mind, such students are to be rewarded,
    just as students who go beyond expectations in terms of research should be rewarded.
    Such considerations should not be built into the assignment guidelines, for the
    reasons above, but students who take the initiative (and risk) to stand out (by
    actually improving the quality of their essay/paper/submission) deserve, I think,
    recongition and thus a higher mark."
  created: '2007-03-06 21:47:07'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "My company just finished publishing a set of DVDs, one of which covered this
    exact issue:\r\nhttp://www.videoaidedinstruction.com/199X.html\r\n\r\n(The free
    study guide for this program included some general recommendations for non-TNR
    choices...)\r\nhttp://www.videoaidedinstruction.com/sg/80909/VAI-S199X.pdf\r\n\r\nLet
    me know what you think,\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\n------------------------------------------------------"
  created: '2007-03-07 02:11:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"So I\u2019ve almost always shirked this rule\"\r\n:) good idea. but you
    really are not a shirker. The teachers are teaching we hope.\r\n\r\nWhat you couldn't
    do is use 14 pt, or 6 pt. of anything. The idea is that non-typographically inclined
    students will use Times@12 and typographically inclined students, like for example,
    yourself, will choose a \"suitable alternative of approximately the same size
    and length\" but more \"stylistically to your liking/peronality. Then the teachers
    know who's who by the font, or they don't. For any teacher who doesn't understand
    what's being taught there, for example, punishing a good font selection of approximately
    the same size and length for not being Times@12, please don't."
  created: '2007-03-07 17:54:41'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "What do you all think of the following recommendations:\r\nSet your paper
    <em>temporarily</em> in TNR@12. Note the page (and place on the page) where the
    last word of your paper appears. Now, set the paper in your preferred typeface
    (any reasonable alternative to TNR -- Georgia, Minion, Book Antiqua, etc.) and
    set the point size of the font such that your paper ends in almost exactly the
    same place.\r\n\r\n --Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\n------------------------------------------------------"
  created: '2007-03-08 16:28:39'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: 'An other alternative for TNR is PT Serif, posted as well here: http://typophile.com/node/54614
    ("Alternatives to Times New Roman" thread). '
  created: '2011-01-10 07:45:03'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Although I think that rules are usually best obeyed, it also seems obvious
    to me that a rule requiring people to set their theses in Times Roman probably
    got written in order to tell people the old rule about using Courier or another
    typewriter face is now repealed, and proportional spacing, as is easily done on
    a laser printer, is now sought.\r\n\r\nThus, I think it's unfortunate that the
    rule is so specific. If someone finds the needs of his thesis are better served
    by Modern Series 7, or Caslon, or even Helvetica, it should be possible."
  created: '2011-01-11 01:39:45'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "As a frequent thesis advisor, I think it should be left up to the thesis
    advisor. :-)\r\n(We are the ones that actually have to read these things!)"
  created: '2011-01-11 01:46:46'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Given that alternatives to Times for general typography are being discussed
    here too, I happened to come across [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/terminaldesign/rawlinson/|Rawlinson]]
    from Terminal Design.
  created: '2011-01-11 02:49:28'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote><p>I happened to come across Rawlinson from Terminal Design.</p></blockquote>\r\n\r\nYour
    link to MyFonts shows a lovely typeface, but in a single weight and style.\r\nA
    better link should be this:\r\nhttp://www.terminaldesign.com/order/Rawlinson2/"
  created: '2011-01-11 08:53:23'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "When I was in school, it was all typewriters, so we complained about prelilms
    (the 5-day set of exams you have to pass <cite>before</cite> you can write your
    dissertation).\r\n\r\nOne of my professors remarked \"Prelims are puberty rites.
    Just pass them and get on with your life.\"\r\n\r\nThe same is true for the dissertation.
    If they require Times, use Times. Should it eventually be picked up by a press
    and published, you can be sure it won't be set in Times. "
  created: '2011-01-11 13:43:31'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "<em>\"However, keep in mind that few teachers actually look at the design
    of the paper\"</em>\r\nIn some fields of study, this is untrue. I mean, *very*
    untrue.\r\nThe APA guidelines specifically require either a monospace font like
    Courier or its equivalent, or Times or its equivalent. No exceptions.\r\nThey
    will even balk if the margins aren't exactly 1 inch.\r\n\r\nThere does seem to
    be some wiggle room on point size. The guidelines suggest 11pt but 12pt seems
    to raise no eyebrows and is easier to read onscreen.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-11 14:17:07'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I'm sure the most common question about typography in schools and universities
    is \"What font can make 8 pages worth of work look like 10?\"\r\n\r\nThe reason
    for spec'ing the format and one font over another for papers, aside from universal
    availability and relative legibility is uniformity. 10 Pages of Minion MM  will
    most likely contain a different number of words than ten pages of TNR. "
  created: '2011-01-11 14:28:21'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: In my experience many educators are moving to word-count guidelines/requirements
    rather than page-counts. (Maybe tired of 13/14.7 Courier typesetting?)
  created: '2011-01-11 14:29:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Dare we reincarnate the old \"Characters per pica\" system of the Haberule
    ;-)\r\nCharacter count/ word count is a piece of cake these days.  Are not these
    stipulations ways of assuring uniformity for the University? No one ever concerned
    themselves about it when all there was was a typewriter to key the manuscript.
    I do feel that people in the visual fields (design,typography, etc..) should have
    the option of \"designing\" the thesis instead of just keying in the text since
    demonstration of their skills is part of the whole point of their studies.  I
    don't think the typical engineering student or liberal arts major really cares
    about the typeface as much as we do here."
  created: '2011-01-11 16:52:13'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: '''S''kinda funny, all those years of education trying to stretch your words
    to the school''s spec, then you get older and people complain if you write anything
    longer than their attention span of 140 chars.;)'
  created: '2011-01-11 18:42:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...people complain if you write anything longer than their attention span
    of 140 chars.;)\"\r\n\r\nRead? You expect a person to actually Read?  ;-D\r\n\r\nI
    was always too verbose the stay within the guidelines so I would have enjoyed
    fractional point sizes way back then."
  created: '2011-01-11 18:46:31'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "In my high school English AP class, I was rather notorious for incorporating
    various fonts into my papers on the grounds that they were necessary for the content,
    which was (usually) true. I set a paper on the Odyssey in Minion so I could use
    the matching Greek for quotations; I wrote a paper on i.t.a. set in a digital
    version of Pitman's i.t.a. type so I could include examples; and when I did an
    analysis of Beowulf I decided to incorporate some quotes in the original Anglo-Saxon
    orthography \u2014 partly because I thought them relevant, and partly so I could
    use the digital Beowulf font (based on the manuscript lettering; not \"Beowolf\").
    I routinely set my papers in Minion; my teacher never noticed. I figured it was
    sort of my right, as she typed all her assignments and rubrics in Monotype Corsiva,
    artificially slanted, ALL CAPS."
  created: '2011-01-12 04:59:38'
- author:
    name: Tristan Bowersox
    picture: 119242
  body: "I usually use Arno because I personally find it much more readable. No one's
    complained so far.\r\n\r\nI even tried out a multi-column layout for an art history
    paper, including pictures and captions."
  created: '2011-01-27 19:54:25'
- author:
    name: SciTechEngMath
  body: The worst writing/english teachers I ever had gave page requirements, and
    perhaps dictated Times 12, 1" margins all around to prevent gaming the system.
    The mediocre ones gave word counts. The ones that were actually worth listening
    to, when you asked them what the length requirement was, they'd say "Whatever
    length it needs to be."
  created: '2011-01-30 05:11:15'
- author:
    name: SebastianK
    picture: 119798
  body: "<em>I don't think the typical engineering student or liberal arts major really
    cares about the typeface as much as we do here.</em>\r\n\r\nI'd like to second
    that (as said engineering student). Then again, I proudly admit that I've never
    ever followed any ugly requirements, and it has never hurt my marks. In fact,
    I would like to believe that it usually improves them.\r\n\r\nWhat I really don't
    understand is the 1-inch-margins requirement. We don't use typewriters anymore,
    and double-spacing even negates any environmental argument. 6\xBD-inch lines are
    just terrible.  A teacher once insisted on it, so I created two columns on the
    page. He didn't dare say a word :)\r\n\r\nI think every student should be familiar
    with <a href=\"http://www.typographyforlawyers.com/\">Butterick's awesome website</a>."
  created: '2011-01-31 04:31:41'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "I would like to add an enquire to this thread about a font I just discovered.
    As I see it, it is \u2013 similar to Times \u2013 a transitional old style serif
    typeface, but I have never heard about its foundry or anybody mentioning it.\r\n\r\n[[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/aah-yes/pevensey/|Pevensey]]
    on myfonts from Aah Yes.\r\n\r\nWhat would experts say about this font? It seems
    so complete, 21 different weights (7 roman/italics/obligue), 1200 glyphs. Yet
    I could not find it anywhere being mentioned. \r\n\r\nThanks"
  created: '2011-02-16 07:42:41'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I see it's licensed for web use. It seems to me to resemble Baskerville more
    than any other of the well-known typefaces.
  created: '2011-02-16 13:12:34'
- author:
    name: mjkerpan
  body: School papers, as submitted for grading to professors, don't really need to
    look good, they just need to be easy to read and easy for the professor to make
    notes on. The whole layout of things is intended solely for those purposes. Personally,
    I think that even Times is a bit fancy for the purpose. A font like Courier is,
    in my mind, superior because it doesn't even PRETEND to be publication quality,
    but instead presents something so plain that the contents really are everything.
  created: '2011-02-17 21:23:09'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "courier screams stupidity to me.\r\n\r\ni'd never create anything in courier.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-17 22:00:09'
- author:
    name: mjkerpan
  body: I generally create one version to hand it that's set to professorial specs
    and another for myself which is actually supossed to look good...
  created: '2011-02-17 22:03:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"i'd never create anything in courier.\"\r\n\r\nGood thing Woodward and
    Bernstein don't share your narrow view."
  created: '2011-02-17 22:08:41'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "dezcom said:\r\n>   Good thing Woodward and Bernstein don't share your narrow
    view.\r\n\r\ndo you have any evidence either of them use courier today?\r\n\r\nor
    that their choice of fonts means anything significant?\r\n\r\nbecause i would
    be very interested in seeing that evidence.\r\n\r\neven though it would never
    convince _me_ to use courier...\r\n\r\n(and no, i don't consider _my_ choice of
    fonts to be significant.)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-18 21:34:34'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I'll have to admit that I think it's a good thing that the pages of the Washington
    Post aren't set in Courier.\r\n\r\nI know that when I went to University, even
    though we had gotten a laser printer in, they hadn't gotten around to installing
    software to allow people to print with proportional spacing on it yet. So it was
    early for them to be changing their thesis requirements from \"a 10-pitch typewriter
    face\" to Times Roman.\r\n\r\nNote that they also didn't expect their students
    to all run out and buy Selectrics. Even though many of them, by that time, might
    have had 8-bit computers, not all of them would have been able to afford a daisywheel
    printer. (Pocket calculators started coming out in my second year...)\r\n\r\nVisually,
    12-point Times Roman - especially when it's really 10 1/2 point Times Roman, or
    thereabouts, as seems to be the case on computers these days - is considerably
    smaller than Courier. I'm surprised, therefore, that 16-point Times Roman with
    1 1/2 line spacing isn't what is specified, to match the old standard."
  created: '2011-02-18 22:40:56'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "Chris, I have to say you are completely right. Caring about typography is
    a huge distraction from the writing process, which is why the things like LaTex
    where invented in the first place, plus the mathematical support. \r\n\r\nIf you
    say, people care to much, make wrong choices \"even if what they chose was pure
    \xDFhit\". Well, I for one would be happy already if not TNR would be the standard
    \"bundled and required\" serif font in this world, but Times Ten. Let us see if
    everybody will write with Cambria in 15 years from now. \r\n\r\nI do not think
    it is pretentious to want to write a text in a font that <em>does not</em> strain
    the eye as much as TNR, after all a display typeface for above 14pt. "
  created: '2011-02-20 10:12:14'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I've found, for some reason, that even when the Insert Image link works,
    sometimes it doesn't work the first time I click on it, or I have to wait a while.\r\n\r\nIn
    any case, it's an interesting coincidence that FB Alix, a typeface inspired by
    Prestige Elite/Prestige Pica, is this week's featured typeface."
  created: '2011-02-20 15:29:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"do you have any evidence either of them use courier today?\r\nor that their
    choice of fonts means anything significant?\"\r\n\r\n\r\nI should have known better
    than to feed the Troll.\r\n\r\nOK, one time only:\r\n\r\nIn the old days of Watergate
    time, reporters, writers, editors did not CHOOSE a typeface. They just typed words
    into a machine called a typewriter which had only one font, a TYPEWRITER font.
    \ Their job was words, not the appearance of the words in print. Even later, past
    \"The Presidents Men\" era, with the advent of word processing systems communicating
    with printing technology systems totally in the background, their was NO font
    choice.  They were just dumb terminals that collected ascii text and sent it along
    first to editors,then to automated compositors, then to out-put then to press.
    \ The Terminals used by reporters, writers, and editors had a VERY crude, by today's
    standards, display, as I recall, it was somewhere between 16 and 32 pixels resolution
    of a mono-width bitmap font with no choice of size change or width change let
    alone the dream of a typeface selection. Some were green pixels blasting out of
    a darker background with all the fuzz and halo glare you could ask from an early
    CRT firing photons up into your eyeballs.  Some had an orangey-brown background
    but all were over-phosphored day-glo putrid and a drudge to read. These guys were
    called WORDSMITHS for a reason.  They only thought, wrote, edited, collaborated,
    and saw WORDS (and as minimally readable as you could imagine).\r\n\r\nI understand
    and forgive you because you are young and never had to work in such arcane times
    and conditions. You only know WYSIWYG proportional, beautiful, hinted and meticulously
    displayed text on hi-rez full color greyscale flat-screen Hi-Def digital real
    typefaces that any idiot can choose from thousands and display however thay damn
    well feel like they should--even if what they chose was pure \xDFhit.\r\n\r\nMy
    point is that WRITERS were WRITERS and whatever happened after they plunked that
    funny typewriter key and smacked a fuzzy dark smudge on a piece of paper was not
    their choice, or even on their mind.  The minute their deadline for copy to the
    editor was done, the next deadline for the next day's story began.  My guess is
    they were out having a few beers while their stories were being typeset in the
    composing room by the trade union guys who had to retype every letter over again.\r\nThere
    really was \"division of Labor\" then, for good or for bad. And nobody even considered
    typefaces who was not actually \u201Cin the biz\u201D.\r\n\r\nHere is a real photo
    of the actual Woodward and Bernstein while writing the story: \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/BernWood1_3927.jpg]\r\n\r\nHere
    is a photo of one of the actual pages of their story with their own notes. Notice
    the red borders to aid in wordcount for copyfitting purposes: \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hrc_watergate1_4627.jpg]\r\n\r\nHere
    is an early word processor circa 1986: \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/_WDSTAR_6143.GIF]\r\n\r\nand
    here is Nixon's resignation:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Nixon-resigns2kissinger_3905.jpg]"
  created: '2011-02-20 15:45:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "For some reason, Typophile has disabled the \"insert image\" link so I will
    post the images later.\r\n\r\n[edit]\r\n\r\nI see they fixed the insert image
    issue so disregard this.  The picture are now in place in the above post.\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-20 15:47:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...typeface inspired by Prestige Elite/Prestige Pica, is this week's featured
    typeface.\"\r\n\r\nYes!  It reminds me of my old graduate school days when it
    was all we had!"
  created: '2011-02-20 15:53:33'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Note that Nixon's resignation is proportionally spaced. The resolution of
    the image is insufficient for me to determine with confidence if he used an ordinary
    IBM Executive typewriter, which would have had units of 1/32\" for the typestyle
    likeliest to be used, or a Mag Card Executive, which would have used units of
    1/60\", and which I know the White House did end up using later.\r\n\r\nEDIT:
    Found a larger image on the Web. An ordinary Executive typewriter."
  created: '2011-02-20 20:09:53'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i shouldn't talk with people so rude they call me a \"troll\".\r\nbut i'm
    very curious.  just what do you think my age is?\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-24 04:19:45'
date: '2007-03-04 03:09:58'
title: Not Obeying the 'Times' Requirement

---
