---
author:
  name: crossgrove
  picture: 110130
body: "As a sort of response to the thread about overused types, suppose we focus
  on things we want to see <strong>more</strong> of. The additional benefit to this
  is the possibility that some of the faces people mention might make good projects
  for students or designers. Faces not yet digitized are fair game, as well as those
  available digitally.\r\n\r\nI'll kick off: Albertina and Breughel."
comments:
- author:
    name: hn2o
    picture: 109689
  body: "looks like us germans are gonna see a lot more Albertina soon\u2026 ;-) http://www.fontblog.de/neue-karstadt-schrift-albertina\r\n\r\nI
    personally would like to see Mendoza more often\u2026 "
  created: '2007-03-04 17:16:41'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "[And some smaller Karstadt shops have been re(tro)branded \"Hertie\" and
    use Joshua Darden's Omnes, even on the <a href=\"http://www.hertie.de\" target=\"_blank\">website</a>.
    Very nice!]\r\n\r\nYes, ITC Mendoza Roman and ITC Legacy."
  created: '2007-03-04 17:40:00'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "I third <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/stewf/376079506/in/set-72157594511485997\">Mendoza</a>.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/stewf/376085712/in/set-72157594511485997/\">Oranda</a>.
    Sadly hindered by lack of SC and OSF.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=verity.search&searchstr=FF%20Strada\">FF
    Strada</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=verity.search&searchstr=Mundo%20Sans\">Mundo
    Sans</a>. And I don't say that just because Carl started this thread. It really
    is an excellent all-purpose humanist.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=verity.search&searchstr=Bulldog\">Bulldog,
    <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=verity.search&searchstr=Spiegel\">Spiegel</a>,
    and <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=verity.search&searchstr=Brown
    Gothic\">Brown Gothic</a>. Three great Trade/Franklin alternates.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/showfont.cfm?fid=C.9284.0.0\">Arepo</a>.
    Sumner Stone's underappreciated titling face."
  created: '2007-03-04 19:00:04'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Trinit\xE9 -- probably because it needs a little work which the EULA forbids.\r\n\r\nCycles
    -- Sumner Stone's text font companion to Arepo (for which he needs to get around
    to cutting old style figures)."
  created: '2007-03-04 19:26:04'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Joe Treacy as a font designer, but particularly Bryn Mawr, Vignette and Masterstroke.
  created: '2007-03-04 20:01:25'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: I want to see more Beorcana, but I haven't bought my license yet myself, so
    I'll be quiet.
  created: '2007-03-04 20:03:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I have recently been reading and looking at Albertina in 'Book Typography'
    by Mitchell & Wightman. It is impressive indeed. \r\n\r\nI've never warmed to
    Frutiger's serif faces, but I'd be very interested to see Breughel in use, as
    it is interesting the way it handles weight. Can you point us to any examples,
    Carl?\r\n\r\nI find Trinit\xE9 just awesome to look at on the TEFF site, but I've
    never seen it in extended use. I assumed it was because it is so expensive. Charles,
    what do you think needs fixing in it? \r\n\r\nI would add Whitman to the list.
    I think it is awesome. I personally haven't seen it in use, though I gather it
    is pretty widely used."
  created: '2007-03-04 22:59:51'
- author:
    name: hn2o
    picture: 109689
  body: "Yeah, Whitman. I purchased it a while ago, but sadly I still didn't have
    a chance to use it. \r\n\r\nI'd also like to add <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/145592/alisal-family.html\">
    Alisal </a> to the list\u2026 I can't remember having it seen in use anywhere."
  created: '2007-03-05 00:07:38'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Bill, I bought Trinit\xE9 when the exchange rate of the euro was 85-cents.
    I guess it is more expensive for those of us in the States now. But you get a
    bunch of fonts, and for the Type-1 days, they were pretty complete. Anyway, I
    bought Trinit\xE9 because Richard Eckersley wanted to use it, and when Richard
    began using a font, you knew he would use it for years. A good investment.\r\n\r\nIt
    comes with no ligatures, and no kerning. And yes, it does need an f_i and f_f_i
    ligature. Even the old trick of setting the dotless \"i\" following an \"f\" doesn't
    quite work. I doubt it is available in OpenType, but it also needs a terminal
    f. An f-space kern won't cut it.\r\n\r\nBack to money for a bit. If a set of fonts
    costs $1,000 and you use it for 10 books, that's cheap, given the \"new book,
    new fonts\" approach of too many designers. And by the way, for my money, it takes
    designers a while to understand how to use a font, and comps a while to learn
    how to set it -- but then, I'm a dinosaur."
  created: '2007-03-05 02:44:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Charles, I''m really surprised about the lack of kerning and ligatures. Did
    you ever raise this issue with the foundry? '
  created: '2007-03-05 03:07:47'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "I second Mundo Sans and Brown Gothic. While I haven't had the luxury of using
    Brown Gothic, I have used Mundo Sans. I implore anyone tired of Gill Sans, to
    switch to Mundo...better spaced, and the weights are extrapolated a lot more consistently.
    (If that's the right way of saying it.)\r\n\r\nI also think <a href=http://www.stormtype.com/typefaces-fonts-shop/families-42-sebastian>Sebastian</a
    href> from Stormtype is really getting overlooked."
  created: '2007-03-06 04:19:11'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "My list of underused/underexposed types includes:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.stonetypefoundry.com/\"
    target=new>Cycles</a> -- Surprisingly, someone did use Cycles for the logo of
    Cymbalta, an antidepressant medication being advertised widely these days. But
    I haven't run across it many other places. I used the original release in a book
    several years ago and loved it. (I only wish we'd printed on a slightly softer
    paper.) Charles, most of the cuts in the family I have include OsF. In which size(s)
    are you missing them? \r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.dutchtypelibrary.nl/Documenta_rdrct.html\"
    target=new>DTL Documenta</a> -- I've only seen it once or twice here in the States.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.houseind.com/index.php?page=showfont&id=171&subpage=viewfonts\"
    target=new>Paperback</a> -- I'm surprised this hasn't been picked up on more.
    I found it a little dark for a book I tried it with, but I would have thought
    I'd see this more in advertising. I should think it's quirks would be perfect
    for the zeitgeist.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/bitstream/iowan-old-style/\"
    target=new>Iowan Old Style</a> -- Another John Downer design. This used to be
    a workhorse and fallback for me. But I haven't seen it used much elsewhere.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/?fuseaction=catalog.fontpackage&searchby=manufacturer&displayfontid=FF.6180.0.0\"
    target=new>FF Quadraat</a> -- I used to see this a little more, but it disappeared
    pretty quickly. I still love it's look. The one quibble I have is that there aren't
    kerning pairs for quotation marks with periods and commas in any combination.
    And so, it was a little unfortunate that Quadraat was used in the American edition
    of <cite>Eats, Shoots & Leaves</cite> -- a book about punctuation, of all things
    -- and the lack of kerns didn't get addressed, which meant that there were all
    sorts of distracting gaps around the many quotation marks. \r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2007-03-06 14:04:53'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "William --\r\n\r\nThanks for the mention. I'm hoping <a href=\"http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Whitman\"
    target=new>Whitman</a> will garner more use once I can complete the Bold Italic,
    which many people have been clamoring for. It's on the docket, but first FB wants
    me to finish the Display family for the Retail library -- seven weights in three
    widths.\r\n\r\nRight now, the most visible place to see Whitman in use is probably
    <cite>BRIDES</cite> magazine. The magazine is mostly Cyrus's <a href=\"http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Relay\"
    target=new>Relay</a>. (Heck, the magazine is mostly ads!) But there's some Whitman
    in there, if you can find the hard content. They also have a few cuts from the
    original Display commission, which they mix in.\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2007-03-06 14:18:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">BRIDES magazine\r\n\r\nI'll get it, but I'll have to hide it from my daughters,
    who are grown women. They will think Dad is giving annoying hints about grandchildren
    again :) "
  created: '2007-03-06 15:18:58'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Stephen, Alex, Terry, I blush. Terry, I've got a copywriting job for you...
    \ ;)\r\n\r\nI second Iowan Old Style. \r\n\r\n\"Can you point us to any examples,
    Carl?\"\r\n\r\nWilliam, Isn't that the very problem? The only two places I've
    ever seen Breughel are in the issue of Fine Print where Chuck Bigelow wrote about
    Frutiger's serifed faces (there are more than you might think) and in a book called
    \"Typefaces for Books\" by James Sutton and Alan Bartram. It is a useful specimen
    of many book faces that were available when it came out, because it shows several
    sizes of text with variations in leading. \r\n\r\nBrueghel might be newly interesting
    in light of the current slab-serif trend. "
  created: '2007-03-06 15:34:54'
- author:
    name: xa
  body: "Kinesis and Kepler... gorgeous but never seen used. ITC Mendoza is so rare
    even in France.\r\nFF Quadraat is widely used in Holland."
  created: '2007-03-06 17:34:55'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: We covered one of the BRIDES in our <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/virtual/newsletters/jul2006_a/">magazine
    fonts</a> newsletter. Sadly, no pics of Whitman.
  created: '2007-03-06 20:52:12'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I'll just be totally self-serving and petty and say <a href=\"http://www.1001fonts.com/member_profile.html?author_id=30468\">all
    the fonts I have released are underused and underappreciated</a>.\r\n\r\nBut honestly,
    most of them suck pretty badly. "
  created: '2007-03-06 21:27:40'
- author:
    name: dojr2
  body: Linotype Didot and Bodoni BT.
  created: '2007-03-07 16:33:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Kent, I read a lot of Quadraat every other week in the <em>London Review
    of Books,</em> and the long arm of the \"f\" frequently distracts me, as it often
    jumps across word spaces and collides with a following capital -- a frequent occurence
    in book titles. Nonetheless, it's a great face which I really enjoy reading, but
    I'm glad I rarely come across it outside the LRB.\r\n\r\nCertainly, some faces
    are overused, but the issue is not that there are great type designs particularly
    scorned and overlooked in relation to their merit. I'd say that art directors
    should go out of their way to choose special typefaces, and make every publication
    as unique as possible. After all, there are gazillions of typefaces available,
    and, by astute typography, many more may be massaged into respectability than
    just adopting the aficionados' favourites. "
  created: '2007-03-07 17:41:20'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>I read a lot of Quadraat every other week in the London Review of Books,
    and the long arm of the \u201Cf\u201D frequently distracts me, as it often jumps
    across word spaces and collides with a following capital \u2014 a frequent occurence
    in book titles.,/cite>\r\n\r\nYes, Quadraat is one of many typefaces that need
    a terminal f (f.terminal) set up in a contextual alternate so the terminal \"f\"
    is used when a word space follows. You both shorten the arm of the \"f\" a bit,
    and increase the right sidebearing. Of course, you can't do this with Quadraat
    ;) -- because it is a FontFont font, & they forbid the end user from fixing all
    their errors."
  created: '2007-03-07 18:06:06'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> they forbid the end user from fixing all their errors.\r\n\r\nThis isn't
    exactly true. The <a href=\"http://fontfont.com/about/licensing.ep\">FF EULA</a>
    states that modifications are permissible with written consent."
  created: '2007-03-07 20:01:45'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Nick -- I agree that the Quadraat \"f\" does bridge a following wordspace
    a bit too much and can create some awkward situations with subsequent capitals.
    I'd forgotten about that.\r\n\r\nCharles -- I have found FontFont very responsive
    in the past to requests to allow me to make minor alterations for specific purposes.
    For instance, reassembling LF into the regular Kievit fonts and deriving fractions
    for a cookbook I was working on. Obviously, we had to have a proper license and
    we kept the fonts in-house.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-07 20:30:05'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "Kinesis and Trinit\xE9, among others. If I win the lottery one of these days,
    I'm definitely buying every last Trinit\xE9 variant and weight."
  created: '2007-03-07 20:41:46'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: Regulation Magazine used to be set in Albertina, but they switched to Legacy
    serif.  Go figure.
  created: '2007-03-07 20:50:28'
- author:
    name: fonthausen
    picture: 110499
  body: "Charles,\r\n\r\n<cite> It comes with no ligatures, and no kerning. And yes,
    it does need an f_i and f_f_i ligature. Even the old trick of setting the dotless
    \u201Ci\u201D following an \u201Cf\u201D doesn\u2019t quite work. I doubt it is
    available in OpenType, but it also needs a terminal f. An f-space kern won\u2019t
    cut it.. </cite>\r\n\r\nI have been working a lot with the <cite>Trinit\xE9</cite>.
    Until now, I have encountered but a very few typefaces, which have the same quality.
    Its lacking of kerning is not a disadvantage, but a proof of craftmanship. Having
    worked for The Ensched\xE9 Font Foundry in the recent past, I know kerning the
    <cite>Trinit\xE9</cite> would be a diffilcult job and it would be somewhere a
    contradiction to the typeface.\r\nAlthough I like ligatures a lot, I also find
    the use anoying. If you change the tracking in any way, they become obsolete.
    \r\n\r\n//Jacques\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-07 20:54:10'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Jacques,\r\n\r\nIn a lot of ways, I agree with you. One of the virtues of
    Trinit\xE9 is that it looks quite good when set by application programs that do
    not support kerning or ligaturing. It is a masterful execution from that perspective.
    But I bought the fonts to set some books for Richard Eckersley, who also owned
    the fonts & set some books himself. If you knew him, you know he was not satisfied
    with less than what <cite>could</cite> be done, and I don't think anyone would
    disagree that the fonts can be improved with kerning and ligatures \r\n\r\nSomewhere
    in all my email correspondence with Peter Noordzij, he mentioned that if I kerned
    it, he would like to see the result. I guess I haven't followed up on that. And
    I think he mentioned once that de Does had changed his mind about the need for
    ligatures.\r\n\r\nI don't think a properly set up font (which Trinit\xE9 is) should
    be tracked. But if you must track it, you can always break the ligaturing.\r\n\r\nThe
    crack about the EULA concerns the price: I asked Peter Noordzij about the extra
    cost for allowing full embedding of the fonts in a PDF file, which some publishers
    require. His response was that the number of people (computers) then involved
    was the whole world, and of course, that price would be astronomical \u2013 at
    the time I bought it, 2,000 computers would have been about 76,000 euros.\r\n\r\nSo
    for the numerous academic publishers that have a contract with NetLibrary, which
    <cite>requires</cite> a PDF with full embedding, Trinit\xE9 should not be used.\r\n\r\nBest,\r\n\r\nCharles"
  created: '2007-03-08 22:56:22'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "\"I have found FontFont very responsive in the past to requests to allow
    me to make minor alterations for specific purposes.\"\r\n\r\nDon't get me started!
    You were lucky! I asked for permission to place the f ligs in the regular font
    so that they would function properly in InDesign, and was told that the work had
    to be done by FontShop at a cost of, if I recall correctly, $25 per lig...and
    they asked what position I wanted the  character should be placed in, which indicated
    to me that the person doing the work didn't understand how to properly encoded
    f ligs for InDesign.\r\n\r\nFortunately for me, after some discussion it was agreed
    that I had licensed the font under an earlier EULA that did allow mods."
  created: '2007-03-09 02:51:58'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: Speaking of Whitman, the Minneapolis StarTribune uses the unreleased Display
    extensively and it looks fantastic. I've been out of the country for six months
    but the last I saw it was used for most of the heads. But yes, crazy underrated.
  created: '2007-03-09 09:06:52'
- author:
    name: fonthausen
    picture: 110499
  body: "Charles,\r\n\r\nthank you for your elaborate reply. Now I know of the context
    you were speaking of, I can imagine the lack of tracking is/was an important issue.\r\n\r\nPM
    Noordzij and I have had lots of discussions on this theme. They often ended it
    up in discussing the way typographer, fontdesigners and graphic designers differ
    in approach when setting text and the making of books.\r\n\r\nJacques "
  created: '2007-03-09 19:41:48'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Terry, I\u2019ve got a copywriting job for you\u2026 ;)</em>\r\n\r\nSend
    it on. ;)"
  created: '2007-03-09 21:02:41'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "[[http://typophile.com/node/99715|Trinit\xE9 in use]]"
  created: '2013-01-16 13:48:39'
- author:
    name: Delete
  body: "Specifically, it looks like Trinit\xE9 #2 Roman Condensed. I really like
    this font, but in the book, it really does not stand out. The Roman wide and italic
    versions look classier."
  created: '2013-01-27 20:33:03'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "My mileage on Trinit\xE9 varies. Prefer the condensed. More importantly,
    so did Richard Eckersley...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.tug.org/texshowcase/6553-sample.pdf\r\n\r\nEdit:\r\n\r\nBTW,
    Peter Noordzij was pretty accommodating about a slight change to the license,
    so I drew up ligatures & kerned the font. You have to magnify the sample, but
    they are there.\r\n\r\nAnd I still think Trinit\xE9  is worth the price. I don't
    get to use it much these days, because for any title, publishers hold out hope
    there may be a PDF ebook. At the price, they won't buy it. My feeling is you get
    a fair bit for that $1,000 Euros -- or whatever it's gone to these days.\r\n\r\nSecond
    edit:\r\n\r\nIf anyone cares, these are Richard's specifications:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.tug.org/texshowcase/6553-specs.pdf\r\n\r\nCan't
    remember if Richard was using an 18-unit em in those days, or the 54-unit one.
    Probably 18. Always had to \"translate\" his letterspacing instructions..."
  created: '2013-01-27 21:55:57'
- author:
    name: Delete
  body: Thanks for the interesting example and your thoughts. I like the added ligatures.
    Nice job!
  created: '2013-01-28 00:50:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hard to find a more under-rated typeface than Sitka.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2015-03-13 17:17:57'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "I do agree with you, Hrant \u2014 hard to believe considering that you can
    have Sitka for free with Windows\u2026"
  created: '2015-03-14 18:35:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Microsoft is now to type was Apple was to type 2\u20133 decades ago.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2015-03-14 18:54:11'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It's just an artifact of the lower resolution, but on [[http://www.greenm3.com/gdcblog/2014/10/7/state-of-the-art-font-is-more-readable-than-the-rest-microso.html|this
    page]] the 0.8 em size of Sitka Text reminds me of one of the typestyles for IBM
    Executive typewriters.\r\n\r\nAlso, I see it was added with Windows 8.1. I have
    a Windows 8 computer, but a bug keeps me from using Windows Update, required before
    I can upgrade."
  created: '2015-03-14 22:12:28'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It's true that if they are typographically unsophisticated, they may fail
    to realize the possibilities afforded by the optical sizes.\r\n\r\nBut ordinary
    Windows users, like anyone else who uses a typeface to print stuff, may print
    things in different point sizes. So having \"Sitka Small\" recommending itself
    for the smaller point sizes may result in it being used for them by some of them.\r\n\r\nI
    suspect that the magazines for PC users will get around to mentioning the uses
    of this feature, so some people will learn of it that way."
  created: '2015-03-15 00:22:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The hope (I hope :-) is that software will choose the correct size automatically.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: ycherem
    body: ">>\"The hope (I hope :-) is that software will choose the correct size
      automatically.\"\r\n\r\nPerhaps it would not be hard if anyone cared about optical
      sizes. I've seen this done automatically for years now with (Xe)LaTeX."
    created: '2015-03-21 19:06:10'
  created: '2015-03-15 04:28:07'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "One other thing I don\u2019t quite get about Sitka : what use can \u2018ordinary
    Windows users\u2019 (sorry, no disrespect here, I just couldn\u2019t find another
    turn of phrase) have of the optical sizes available to them ?"
  created: '2015-03-15 09:48:41'
- author:
    name: PJay
    picture: 109541
  body: Speaking of Enschede, has anyone seen Collis used in American or English publications?
  created: '2015-03-15 13:13:34'
- author:
    name: Knockdown
  body: "\"Microsoft is now to type was Apple was to type 2\u20133 decades ago.\"\r\n\r\nOff
    topic: I remain to be convinced. Maybe in future, but right now as a Mac user
    interested in seeing what they're doing...the website is a joke. All fonts are
    shown with text samples in [[http://www.microsoft.com/typography/fonts/family.aspx?FID=28|Cyrillic
    and Greek first]] even though I'm looking at an English-language webpage! And
    I can [[http://www.microsoft.com/typography/fonts/default.aspx|only find a list
    of fonts]] on Windows 8, not 8.1. Did extra new stuff arrive with 8.1? Who knows?
    There's [[http://www.google.co.uk/search?q=sitka+site%3Awww.microsoft.com%2Ftypography&oq=sitka+site%3Awww.microsoft.com%2Ftypography&aqs=chrome..69i57.5383j0j4&sourceid=chrome&es_sm=122&ie=UTF-8|nothing]]
    on the website explaining Sitka or how I could use its optical sizes as a consumer,
    either. (There's [[http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/goglobal/bb688099.aspx|a bit]]
    explaining it for developers.) Was it worth commissioning a huge MM font family
    if nothing but IE can safely use it? Or can other applications safely use it?
    Is it worth the hassle for me to update to Windows 8.1 if I'm a Windows 7 user
    to get it? Why does [[http://support.microsoft.com/en-us/kb/2800393|Office 2013]]
    seem to come with far fewer fonts than [[http://support.microsoft.com/en-us/kb/2121313|Office
    2010]]? What happens if I reinstall Windows and never install Office 2010, do
    my documents suddenly stop being in Garamond and start being in Calibri? Who knows?
    \r\n\r\nThe big giveaway is that when you go to the [[http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/Typography/aboutfontsoverview.aspx|'overview']]
    page on fonts, it points you to an exciting list of new fonts that come with Windows
    7. Check the 'last updated' date for yourself, nobody's touched it in half a decade.
    \r\n\r\nAnd Sitka is just one font. The [[http://www.microsoft.com/typography/fonts/product.aspx?PID=164|Windows
    bundled font library]] has always been a bit rubbish, but it's really rubbish
    now. Meanwhile, buying a cheap Mac is effectively buying a decent starter font
    library and a [[http://www.apple.com/uk/mac/pages/|basic DTP app]] with a computer
    thrown in for free. "
  created: '2015-03-15 21:58:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Many good questions, and good points. I guess in a huge corporation it's
    hard to be consistent, especially concerning something that many people sadly
    don't think is too relevant; we see that at Adobe too, with the maddening differences
    in the ways menus etc. are presented, and even OT support.\r\n\r\nBut it remains
    that MS commissioned the Core Fonts, then the ClearType fonts, and now Sitka,
    plus they've been much more serious and sober about non-Latin support. In contrast,
    until the glimmer of hope presented by the new San Francisco, it really has been
    the typographic dark ages at Apple for many years now. A Comic Sans clone, really?
    But let's hope this new change is real and long-lived.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2015-03-16 15:32:02'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I thought Apple's \"Comic Sans clone\" was instead a clearly different and
    better typeface... but provided as a Comic Sans substitute, because, after all,
    Mac users want to look at the same Internet as PC users, and there are a lot of
    web pages out there which just assume everyone has the standard PC typefaces.\r\n\r\nSo
    I didn't see that Apple had a <em>choice</em>, it just made the best of a bad
    situation."
  created: '2015-03-16 18:54:24'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "No. Chalkboard wasn\u2019t created for a \u201Cbetter\u201D web experience:
    the \u201Ccore web fonts\u201D were already available to Mac users. After all,
    IE 5 was the only browser pre-installed in any Mac up until Safari came to be. "
  created: '2015-03-16 19:32:44'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "This reminds me. I don't think that Linux includes an open-source substitute
    for Comic Sans, even though it did aim at providing equivalents of Times Roman
    and Arial/Helvetica. (I know they aren't the same typeface, but just as Arial
    was Monotype Grotesque with Helvetica metrics, intended as a substitute for Helvetica,
    clones of Helvetica can serve as a substitute for Arial when rendering web pages
    \"intended\" to display in Arial.)\r\n\r\nBut I could be mistaken. If so, what
    is their answer to Chalkboard?\r\n\r\nAh, a search happened to turn up an answer;
    they could use [[https://balsamiq.com/products/mockups/font/|Balsamiq Sans]] if
    they wish."
  created: '2015-03-16 20:08:32'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "Using an original Comic Sans is possible on Linux as shown by the Core Fonts
    project over on Sourceforge ([[http://corefonts.sourceforge.net/]]). MS\u2019s
    EULA allowed redistribution of the unmodified files which the Core Fonts project
    did by distributing the original self-extracting cabinets and using <code>cabextract</code>
    to get at the contents.\r\n\r\nSure, Comic Sans isn\u2019t Open Source, but I\u2019m
    not rabid enough to blow my top."
  created: '2015-03-17 10:52:31'
date: '2007-03-04 16:24:24'
title: Underrated/Underused typefaces

---
