---
author:
  name: msa
body: "Do the pros making fonts these days for the big foundries really use [[FontLab]]
  (or, I suppose, [[Fontographer]])?\r\n\r\nI recently finished work on a font I needed
  for internal purposes, but for the sake of education, I decided to make the font
  as \"complete\", as I could; I implemented a full character set, went through the
  process of class-based metrics and kerning, etc., even though these features really
  weren't needed.\r\n\r\nI designed the glyphs in [[Adobe Illustrator|Illustrator]],
  and while that went fine, the process of creating an actual font using FontLab was
  incredibly tedious. I found the program to be unstable and buggy in numerous aspects,
  not the least of which was the \"dissapearing metrics classes\" I posted about last
  week (which others have apparently encountered as well).\r\n\r\nTo be honest, I'd
  love to make more fonts, but the prospect of having to wade through the FontLab
  jungle again for such a labor-intensive project is a deal-breaker.\r\n\r\nSo, to
  restate my question, would someone working on a complete typeface project (as in,
  multiple weights, styles, \"Pro\" character sets, etc.), like say, Myriad, or Caslon,
  or whatever, actually use FontLab? I can't imagine getting halfway through a project
  like that without killing myself. :)\r\n\r\nIf there's anything better out there,
  I'd *love* to know about it.\r\n\r\nThanks!"
comments:
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "They use all sorts: Fontlab, Fontographer, Robofog and various other small
    task-specific apps. Python as well. Fontlab is easy once you get used to it. Quite
    powerful for the big jobs. Although I am too young for Fontographer, I am under
    the impression that a few developers use it predominantly. Whatever gets the job
    done, but definately not Illo!\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-03-05 22:45:06'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "I create outlines in CorelDraw v9 (all subsequent versions have problems,
    ranging from mildly annoying to really dismal), then I export outlines into Fontographer
    (because its import function is so much better than FontLab's cut-and-paste via
    AICB method). I do basic outline clean-up and metrics adjustments in Fontographer,
    then generate a PS Type 1 font. I then open the PS font in either DTL Fontmaster
    Light (if I require some serious fine-tuning of outlines, since DTL blows the
    socks off FontLab in terms of zoomability), or directly into FontLab (if I don't
    need the zoom). In FontLab, I check the integrity of extrema and tweak the curves,
    set bounding boxes, do kerning, and generate my final fonts for Opentype, Truetype
    and PC Postscript. Then, I used Type Tool 2 on Mac OS X to generate the Mac Postscript
    version (although sometimes TT2 bombs in OS X--for no stated reason--and I have
    to generate the font in TT2 in Mac Classic mode).\r\n\r\nThe DTL Fontmaster Suite
    has much to recommend it, and I would probably use it exclusively if not for the
    fact that it's hideously expensive, and the interface is really clunky. I could
    probably use FotnLab exclusively if (a) they would improve the import function;
    (b) add more zoom (I can zoom to 400,000% in CorelDraw); and (c) add more default
    settings (like license info, designer, designer contact info, copyright, etc)."
  created: '2007-03-05 23:45:10'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "oldnick: I'm wondering what more you want to fill in, concerning designer/info/copyrights
    and such? There are several fields that can be filled in already?\r\n\r\nOn topic:
    I'm nothing of a pro typedesigner, but up till now I've exclusively used FL Studio
    5 for making my typefaces.\r\nThere are some minor bugs, but I dont find them
    too bad. They don't really bother me that much, and then again, in future releases
    much of those issues will probably be dealt with. I find the interface pretty
    well designed, sometimes small things can get a bit annoying, but overall I can
    work fairly smoothly."
  created: '2007-03-06 00:11:04'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Alex - what version of FontLab are you using?
  created: '2007-03-06 00:56:15'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "If you develop drawings in Illustrator, importing them into FontLab via ScanFont
    is a snap. You can place the entire uppercase, lowercase, numbers and punctuation,
    properly scaled and in the correct cell with proper glyph names and unicode code
    points in about 2 or 3 seconds. Doesn't seem like a problem to me.\r\n\r\nAs to
    msa's complaint about FontLab: How many hours do you have working with the program?
    I work in FontLab 12 hours a day, everyday, and have no problems. Font making
    requires stamina, it sounds like you have just begun your training. Remember to
    breath."
  created: '2007-03-06 03:29:30'
- author:
    name: gordon
  body: "I remember reading somewhere that during the early days of desktop publishing,
    they would usually scan the sketches into photoshop, editing it using illustrator
    and then transfer the files to fontographer (I think...). Sounds traditional but
    I still believe its praticed nowadays.\r\n\r\nTerminaldesign, I agree with you
    about the endurance thing in learning. But just a little off the record, 12 hours
    on FontLab a day?! I can't even stand sitting in front of the computer for 3 hours
    straight."
  created: '2007-03-06 04:02:33'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "At Adobe we use FontLab for designing (drawing the outlines), and for some
    parts of the production process (making the font files).\r\nNamely, we do basic
    hinting setup (alignment zones, standard stems), kerning (although we have our
    own macros to translate that data into the 'kern' feature), and basic naming for
    generating '.pfa' fonts. These are then processed with the [[AFDKO]] tools (Autohint
    and MakeOTF). For quality assurance we use the AFDKO's CheckOutlines and CompareFamily,
    among other tools and tests.\r\nWe use the [[Multiple Master|Multiple Masters]]
    technology extensively."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Thylacine
      picture: 112146
    body: "<em><strong>Quote from Miguel Sousa:</strong> At Adobe we use FontLab for
      designing (drawing the outlines)...</em>\r\n\r\nReally? I don't work for Adobe,
      but I greatly prefer Adobe Illustrator's drawing tools over those in FontLab.
      I find it interesting that someone at Adobe feels otherwise. Maybe it's mostly
      a matter of what I\"m used to."
    created: '2007-03-06 21:15:10'
  created: '2007-03-06 12:39:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I use FontLab Studio 5 on a Mac. It took a little while to get used to it
    and set it up in a way that I like but now it seems quite usable. I used to start
    drawing glyphs in Illy but found that to be a waste of time and needed too much
    cleanup. Now I just start drawing outlines straight away in FL5. I don't scan
    anything in, I just use my paper sketches as a notebook reminder if I need to
    and this is rare. \r\nI think you have to comit to a work process and set of tools
    and just work it out by giving time to it. Whether your going through a multistep
    progression of tools like Nick or just keeping it simply one program, it is up
    to you. Type design is mostly solitary work so you are not bound by what suits
    others. Large foundries like Adobe might have more a collaborative process with
    some more common way of working needed perhaps.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-06 13:52:10'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Gordon,\r\n\r\nIf you cant stand three hours straight in front of a computer,
    type design may not be the thing for you.\r\n\r\nMultiple Master technology is
    what we use here for everything. I dream in MM. Even a lettering project gets
    the MM treatment.\r\n\r\nJames "
  created: '2007-03-06 14:13:16'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I find it interesting that someone at Adobe feels otherwise.</cite>\r\n\r\nSeems
    to me that they just like using specialized tools for specialized jobs. Illustrator
    is a great program, but it isn't a font design app."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Thylacine
      picture: 112146
    body: "A specialized font creation app, yes, but (in my opinion) a clunky drawing
      application. Again, it's partly what I'm used to to, but to me Illustrator or
      FreeHand <em>are</em> the specialized tools that are best suited for drawing
      and manipulating vector shapes.\r\n\r\nThere are font-specific sorts of drawing
      functions in FontLab that are invaluable, but taking it all into consideration,
      it would take me at least twice as long and would be twice as hard to draw a
      font if I were limited only to FontLab's limited and awkward tools.\r\n\r\nReally,
      I'm not trying to argue; I just find it interesting that some apparently prefer
      FontLab for the <em>drawing</em> part of designing a font. When I'm working
      on a font, I invariably have both FontLab running and a <em>real</em> drawing
      application."
    created: '2007-03-07 02:53:34'
  created: '2007-03-07 01:14:28'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "I only use two tools for drawing: a pen and FontLab. I find outlines much
    easier to use in FL than anything else. Why people bother with Illustrator I have
    no idea.\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-03-07 03:11:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "What Kris said. \r\n\r\nAnd if you did a survey I bet you'd find 95% don't
    use Illustrator at all in their design process. "
  created: '2007-03-07 03:29:19'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 95% of <em>full-time type designers</em> maybe. And I would guess more like
    75%. But it's true that many pros prefer to work directly in their font editor.
  created: '2007-03-07 04:17:57'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Just to weigh in on this discussion . . . The timing couldn't be more appropriate
    for me since I'm just now making the transition from my old work process to my
    new one . . .\r\n\r\nI have drawn all my fonts in Illustrator 8.0 and done the
    import to FOG process for years and I can see moving forward continuing to draw
    my letters in Illustrator for the primary reason that the tool feels comfortable
    to me and I can draw very fast and freely. . .\r\n\r\nThat said, while I'm working
    through the conversion of the Filmotype library, my job is not creation but tracing
    and while I could blow quickly through this in Illustrator, I know the work benefits
    from being traced at scale on a 1000em grid so since I'm working on that as my
    primary goal, it makes perfect sense to draw in that manner right from the start.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not terribly fast but I'm getting faster and will continue to do all my conversion
    tracings in FLAB Studio 5.\r\n\r\nIt remains to be see whether my chops with it
    will get to the point where it becomes my default drawing app as well. It makes
    sense that it should but my tastes are split at this point . . .\r\n\r\nOne thing
    I will point out working wih both systems is that I LOVE the way I can clearly
    see the outline forms when I'm drawing in FLAB, Illustrator has it's own screen
    rendering engine and sometimes depending on the level of zoom, the forms aren't
    quite what they should be and even perfectly drawn curves are indeed slighly flat
    depending on how zoomed in you get and print out differently as well . . .\r\n\r\nStuart
    :D"
  created: '2007-03-07 04:52:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">more like 75%\r\n\r\nYou may well be right, but here's some evidence: How
    often are there questions about Illustrator in this 'build' forum? Answer: rare.
    How often are there questions about FontLab? Answer: Constantly. \r\n\r\nHow many
    workshops and discussions, including in the corridors, about drawing in Illustrator
    are there are font conferences? None that I've seen or heard. How many about FontLab:
    lots. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Thylacine
      picture: 112146
    body: "<em>How many workshops and discussions, including in the corridors, about
      drawing in Illustrator are there are font conferences? None that I\u2019ve seen
      or heard. How many about FontLab: lots.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, the answer to that
      is obvious. FontLab's drawing tools require contant non-intuitive workarounds
      and endless questions from people who have never had the pleasure of working
      with a real drawing application. Experienced Illustrator users require no such
      nonsense.\r\n\r\nReally, I'm just kidding. Couldn't resist. All in fun! Insert
      smiley face here.\r\n\r\nSeriously though, I'm am genuinely curious about the
      attraction to FontLab's drawing tools. With Illustrator (and to a lesser extent
      FreeHand and CorelDRAW) being the dominant vector drawing program, I assumed
      that most type designers would have started out using mainstream, dedicated
      vector drawing applications before they actually took up type design. Which
      brings up another question: once again, I assumed (and quite possibly mistakenly
      so) that most type designers started out as graphic designers and, at some point,
      moved to type design and took their tools with them. I wonder how many mostly
      full-time type designers first learned a mainstream drawing tool and then gave
      it up to draw fonts in favor of FontLab's or Fontographer's drawing tools.\r\n\r\nFor
      example, I've designed a half dozen or so commercial faces over the years, but
      it's always been completely secondary to an ongoing graphic design and art direction
      career. Maybe I haven't given FontLab's tools a fair shake (although, I've honestly
      tried), but they just don't do what I want them to in the way I want it to happen.
      Then again, I've been using Illustrator everyday since 1987 and know it inside
      and out, so I'm obviously looking at it from a skewed and biased perspective."
    created: '2007-03-07 06:58:50'
  created: '2007-03-07 05:20:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I prefer to work in one application.\r\nI used to use Fontographer, and switched
    to FontLab a couple of years ago.\r\nIt took me a while to adapt to its drawing
    tools, as I was really comfortable in Fontographer.\r\nI've always (almost 20
    years!) disliked Illustrator's drawing tools.\r\nBTW, Fontographer was the first
    vector-drawing application for the \"personal computer\", preceding Illustrator
    by two years.\r\n\r\nI can't imagine drawing in a program other than Fog or Flab,
    without the metric guidelines, and without being able to instantly inspect characters
    in word formation in the metrics panel. Say I'm adjusting the ear of the \"r\"
    -- it has to work nicely with several other charatcers, so I type \"raryrt\" etc
    in the metrics panel, and then maybe do the same thing with an alternate version
    of the r. Then I fiddle with my ears till I get something that works perfectly.
    \ "
  created: '2007-03-07 06:28:41'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "<cite>Seriously though, I\u2019m am genuinely curious about the attraction
    to FontLab\u2019s drawing tools.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm not a real font professional,
    but I also do the whole process in FontLab. If I just want to make a drawing,
    Illustrator's drawing tools are nicer, but if I want to draw font outlines, I
    find it easier to use FontLab. Why? Because the outline ultimately has to conform
    to the constraints of font formats, like a 1000 em-unit grid, and I'd spend as
    much time cleaning up an imported Illustrator outline in FontLab as I would just
    drawing it in FontLab to start with. It's not that I think FL's drawing tools
    are so great for drawing, it's that they fit the constraints of the final result.\r\n\r\nThen
    again, I've never been a graphic designer, so I'm probably not as good at using
    Illustrator as I could be."
  created: '2007-03-07 07:15:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I assumed (and quite possibly mistakenly so) that most type designers
    started out as graphic designers and, at some point, moved to type design</em>\r\n\r\nI
    started as an art director, and my main digital tool was Quark XPress. But I've
    always used Illustrator and Photoshop. I believe there is quite a bit of variety
    in type designers' backgrounds, and wouldn't be willing to generalize at all. "
  created: '2007-03-07 07:39:54'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "<cite>Really? I don\u2019t work for Adobe, but I greatly prefer Adobe Illustrator\u2019s
    drawing tools over those in FontLab. I find it interesting that someone at Adobe
    feels otherwise. Maybe it\u2019s mostly a matter of what I\u201Dm used to.</cite>\r\n\r\nOh...
    Illustrators vector drawing tool is not half as good as the one in FontLab, believe
    me. After started using FontLab I do all my \"illustrator-work\" in FontLab rather
    than Illustrator. It makes so much more sense. Further on, you have fantastic
    tools in FontLab that Illustrator even don\u2018t come close. In my opinion FontLab
    is wonderful, I love it :)"
  created: '2007-03-07 09:08:20'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I use both at the moment. I have alot more experience using Illustrator's
    vector tool, but eventually I think I want to go entirely to FL. But I'm not good
    enough with the FL tools yet, and if I can do certain curves better in Illustrator,
    I usually do that. Because the result needs to have somekind of curve-quality,
    of course. ;)\r\nBut then again, I have trained myself in placing points in Illustrator
    in extrema, and such, so most of the times I don't have to tweak too much when
    getting the vectors into FL."
  created: '2007-03-07 13:31:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Illustrator curves collapse like a pricked balloon when a point is removed.
    Fontlab curves spring out with firmness. The difference between the two in type
    design is quite valuable.\r\nI started drawing with the very first version of
    Illustrator. I am quite comfortable with it and still use it for everything except
    type design. It would take me 3 times longer to do just the glyph drawing in Illustrator
    as it does in FL5 and I have been using FontLab for only 2 years.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-07 13:34:06'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I guess I'm a font \"professional,\" though only in the use of type, not
    drawing. When I have to draw up a special character, it is a nervous day. But
    I spend a lot of time working with metrical data and writing OT features. For
    this, I find FontLab difficult to use, and do much of the work outside FontLab.
    The Metrics panel is OK to see kern values, though it's resolution is not the
    best -- I suppose no screen-based panel could be much better.\r\n\r\nI write off
    the AFM files for pairs, check values for some class-based kerning in the FontLab
    window, but do all the actual work in a text editor --  V-Edit which is a reasonably
    sophisticated one & also supports a columnar mode. There are probably better choices
    for text editors today.\r\n\r\nI write the features in the text editor as well.
    When done, import into Fontlab & compile.\r\n\r\nOne plus is I always have a separate
    file of the features, so when I need to go back and add or modify one, it is pretty
    straightforward. Like today, when I'll have to add a kern between any number and
    any numerator for a font that supports unlimited fractions.\r\n\r\nFWIW"
  created: '2007-03-07 13:41:27'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "<em>Illustrator curves collapse like a pricked balloon when a point is removed.
    Fontlab curves spring out with firmness.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, that is indeed a very
    large advantage FontLab has over Illustrator. "
  created: '2007-03-07 14:56:32'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "So, in answer to the original question, the consensus seems to be that individuals
    work in their comfort zones, and there's no single approach which works best for
    everyone.\r\n\r\nI create my outlines in CorelDraw because I've been using it
    since v1, and its tools seem second nature to me now. I like the fact that I can
    use a <strong>single tool</strong> (the Shape Tool) to...\r\n<ul><li>add or delete
    nodes;</li>\r\n<li>make a node sharp, smooth or symmetrical;</li>\r\n<li>change
    a line segment from straight to curve, and vice-versa;</li>\r\n<li>rotate, scale
    or align nodes; and</li>\r\n<li>add but not move or delete guidelines (essentially
    locking them during curve editing; guidelines can be added, moved and deleted
    with the Pick Tool).</li>\r\n</ul>\r\nFontLab's <strong>merge contours</strong>
    function is OK, but it's trim and intersect functions suck, and the <strong>smooth
    curve</strong> slider in CorelDraw v9 is, IMHO, unsurpassed by any other drawing
    program -- which is important, since its <strong>convert stroke to outline</strong>
    function tends to be a little promiscuous about adding nodes.\r\n\r\nOther tools
    comes in handy for other tasks, too. When I kern monocase fonts, I only set kerning
    for the caps. I then export the metrics, open the AFM file in a text editor, copy
    and save the KPX info to another text file, then open that file in Excel as a
    space-delimited file (which puts the first and second characters in separate columns),
    then I copy and paste the kerning info back into the file twice. In the first
    copy, I run a macro that converts the second character to lowercase, and in the
    second copy, I convert both the first and second characters to lowercase. I then
    reverse the process, and end up with an AFM file with identical kerning for caps-caps,
    caps-lower and lower-lower, then import that into FontLab. This process may not
    be everyone's cup of tea, but it works for me..."
  created: '2007-03-07 15:12:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"the consensus seems to be that individuals work in their comfort zones,
    and there\u2019s no single approach which works best for everyone.\"\r\n\r\nExactly.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-07 16:11:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">smooth curve slider in CorelDraw v9 is, IMHO, unsurpassed by any other drawing
    program \r\n\r\nIs this similar to what FontLab does when you shift and click
    and hold on a node? In FontLab this keeps the handles fixed and slides the nodes
    along the tangent as you move the mouse. --An extremely useful function."
  created: '2007-03-07 16:22:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"(I can zoom to 400,000% in CorelDraw)\"\r\nlol\r\n\r\nMSA still 'ere?\r\n\r\nThat
    was all priceless and this sums up the executive summary:\r\n\"So, in answer to
    the original question, the consensus seems to be that individuals work in their
    comfort zones, and there\u2019s no single approach which works best for everyone.\"\r\n\r\nIn
    more technically general terms, there is a range of tools from entirely interactive
    graphics (illustrator), to entirely text-based interfaces to contours and all
    the other data headed for tables that must be created and at some point produced
    into an output format.\r\n\r\nAnd rejoice if FL makes you want to die, it means
    your font wants to live.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-07 18:14:12'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "For text editing of .enc and .fea files TextMate really does the trick for
    me! I bought it the other day, and now wonder why it took me so long to get it\u2026\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-03-07 18:47:17'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "As a long time Freehand user, I find Illustrator's bezier tools less than
    ideal. Even though I've never used FontLab, I'd be suprised if it DIDN'T have
    better bezier drawing functionality than Illustrator. ;o)\r\n\r\nLots of Freehand
    users are saddened by the prospect that Freehand is dead and at somepoint, will
    have to migrate to Illustrator. Maybe FontLab should capitalize on that and release
    a dedicated illustration app based on FontLab's tools. ;0)"
  created: '2007-03-07 19:22:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Darrel, as I remember Fontographer and Freehand were done by the same person,
    so as FontLab now owns Fontographer, it might not be so far fetched...\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, as Adobe owns Freehand, maybe they will integrate some its functionality
    into the next version of Illustrator. \r\n\r\nOn the other hand as FontLab owns
    Fontographer they may integrate some of its drawing methods into Fontlab. \r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand ...with a buying b buying c it's all so confusing :) "
  created: '2007-03-07 19:37:53'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: What peripherals do you pros (and pros-to-be) use? Do people who work directly
    in FL or Illustrator use a mouse to draw? (Please say you don't.) If you don't
    do the initial drawing with a pointing device of some sort, do you use a digitizing
    tablet? Scanner + import + cleanup? It'd be interesting to learn a little more
    about different work processes.
  created: '2007-03-07 20:58:05'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "I just use a mouse & keyboard for digitising. Thought about a wacom, never
    got round to it. I'm waiting for touch-sensitive displays\u2014that's the ticket
    for me. \r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-03-07 21:25:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "If I remember rightly both Mark Simonson and Nick Shinn use a wacom tablet.
    \r\n\r\nMy shoulder started hurting me with the mouse, so I got a track ball,
    which I like also because I have better control with it. And my shoulder stopped
    hurting. "
  created: '2007-03-07 22:09:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I just use a mouse as I have since 1986.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-07 22:16:26'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "\"Shirah 25 started as a freehand study, discovered while experimenting with
    ink and a few new pen nibs. Later on, when designer David Hamuel decided to create
    a digital version, he drew it completely on a digitizing tablet, trying to keep
    the spirit of the ink and the nib\"\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/alef_6626.png]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-07 22:34:44'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<cite>he drew it completely on a digitizing tablet, trying to keep the spirit
    of the ink and the nib</cite>\r\n\r\nHow does that make a difference? Unless you
    have some sort of pressure-sensitve broad-nib tool aren't you just manipulating
    points & outlines like every other digital letterform?\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-03-07 22:40:48'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "Chris, the first time I ever <em>saw</em> a mouse was in 1988, while on vacation
    in Portugal -- I remember the occasion vividly because it looked so other-worldly
    to me.\r\n\r\nNow I feel really incompetent. Drawing something accurately with
    a mouse -- translating an idea into a graphic on screen that actually resembles
    the original idea -- seems impossible to me. My hat's off to you guys."
  created: '2007-03-07 22:50:17'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "I use* the Paint/Brush tool (Brush style/Options)\r\n\r\n\r\n* not always,
    of course."
  created: '2007-03-07 22:51:39'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Since digitising letter forms is not actually \"drawing\" it could be done
    with with either a mouse, a wacom or in worst case, the laptop computers \"finger
    area\" (sorry dont know the name of this). You could also use the arrows on the
    keyboard when digitising, they can control both the points and the handles that
    shapes the letters. But, it\u2019s not the tool that is important, it\u2019s the
    eyes of the person using them."
  created: '2007-03-07 23:12:22'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "<em>Since digitising letter forms is not actually \u201Cdrawing\u201D it
    could be done with with either a mouse (...)</em>\r\n\r\nWell, I didn't really
    imagine most people would produce calligraphic gestures with a mouse, but even
    the prospect of creating points and then manipulating b\xE9zier curves between
    them with a mouse to arrive at a more or less faithful outline of a glyph previously
    seen in the mind's eye (or sketched on paper) seems daunting. My eyes -- and my
    hands -- certainly need a lot of training."
  created: '2007-03-08 00:53:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eric,\r\nIt just takes time working with it. Playing a musical instument
    is a similar learning situation. Have you ever heard a child's first violin or
    trumpet lesson?\r\nThe thing you have to do is let go of the notion that it is
    like drawing on paper. Itis its own thing and can be learned if you allow yourself
    to accept it for what it is, not for what you long for it to be.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-08 01:13:39'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I use an Orbit trackball. I just love the thing. \r\n\r\nAdam Twardoch made
    a lot fun of it when I pulled it out at the TDC Type Tech weekend last year."
  created: '2007-03-08 02:12:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Orbit trackball\r\n\r\nJames, do you know if that is better than the Logitech
    Marble I have? Is there more control or something?"
  created: '2007-03-08 03:40:23'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Bill - try this Orbit   :^)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/orbit_3466.png]\r\n\r\nDirty
    glyph? Nothing cleans it up like Orbit."
  created: '2007-03-08 05:40:52'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Really? I don\u2019t work for Adobe, but I greatly prefer Adobe Illustrator\u2019s
    drawing tools over those in FontLab. I find it interesting that someone at Adobe
    feels otherwise.</em>\r\n\r\nReally! And most of the reasons have already been
    mentioned above. I'll just add that, as I said, we use MM a lot. So going back
    and forth between FontLab and Illustrator would not only be nonsense but painful
    as well.\r\n(And AFAIK, people here used to work with Fontographer before FontLab
    came along)\r\n\r\nBTW, I often use Excel as well. For font production, not type
    design, of course. Really, not kidding. And I know that other font developers
    do it too."
  created: '2007-03-08 11:03:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I use Excel too. When generating classes, I want to be sure I have all the
    glyphs and diacritics exactly in the same order and all present. This is a snap
    in Excel. It also helps doing permutations of kern pairs where you can copy down
    and fill right progressions of glyphs.\r\nI use a text editor for feature code
    because the one built into FontLab is so goofy and unpredictable as to be useless.
    I guess they are not too careful when they code the Mac version.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-08 13:03:30'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>\u201C(I can zoom to 400,000% in CorelDraw)\u201D\r\nlol</em>\r\n\r\nRead
    it and weep...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/405651_4566.gif]\r\n\r\nAnd
    while we're at it...\r\n\r\n<em>Illustrator curves collapse like a pricked balloon
    when a point is removed. Fontlab curves spring out with firmness. The difference
    between the two in type design is quite valuable.</em>\r\n\r\nCorelDraw will preserve
    the curve even between control points separated by as much as 220\xB0 of arc;
    and, unlike FontLab, it doesn't (arbitrarily, it seems) convert segments from
    curve to line when you delete some points...even more valuable (at least to me)."
  created: '2007-03-08 15:02:07'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Read it and weep\u2026\"\r\nWhy is that? I mean, I have no problem with
    Corel draw, but zooming beyond 1:1 with the upm, i.e where each pixel of the source
    em is more than 1 pixel on the screen, is like using a magnifying glass to see
    inside the underlying molecules of a steel punch. Why go there? Really, what do
    you use zooming for beyond 1:1? I'm curious..."
  created: '2007-03-08 15:25:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">convert segments from curve to line when you delete some points\r\n\r\nThis
    happens when start points are involved, and is a bug in FontLab. You can avoid
    it by moving the start point, which only takes a couple of clicks. It would be
    better if they fixed it, but it is not a big problem.  \r\n\r\nBut in any case
    it sounds like Corel Draw acts more like Fontographer and Fontlab in drawing,
    and not Illustrator--which is what the original question is about. \r\n\r\nBut
    the other essential feature of FontLab for me is having a preview panel so you
    can see your glyph next to others in the font as you draw and modify it. In <a
    href=\"http://www.typeculture.com/academic_resource/movies/\">the film of Fred
    Goudy</a> drawing type, you see he draws between two other letters, and I bet
    that one way or another designers have been doing this since Jenson. I don't see
    how you can design a font without that. \r\n\r\nI suppose you have a way to line
    up letters and do the same thing in a drawing-only program, but it sounds cumbersome
    to me. \r\n\r\nAnd as James notes, if you want to use Multiple Master technology,
    just forget about a drawing-only program. \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-03-08 15:37:19'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "William,\r\n\r\nI have never tried the marble you mention, so I have no comparison
    to offer. I have tried a number of the Kensington trackballs over the years, and
    I prefer the Orbit. It is very easy to maneuver with very tiny finger and wrist
    actions.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2007-03-08 18:54:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'James, just checking on the internet, they seem to be pretty much the same
    thing, as they both have optical controls and are at the same price. '
  created: '2007-03-08 20:27:17'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>What peripherals do you pros (and pros-to-be) use? Do people who work
    directly in FL or Illustrator use a mouse to draw? (Please say you don\u2019t.)</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    am certainly not a pro, but I might as well vent my frustration here about what
    I have to deal with. Because I am currently serving in the army, there's only
    one machine I have access to during the week that I can use for font design. It's
    an ancient laptop from when Windows XP was first introduced, which is pretty much
    dedicated to Fontlab and music playing. I do most of my work with the touchpad
    and keyboard built into the laptop, on the 1024x768 resolution screen. It's a
    huge improvement when I get home on the weekends and can work on my home computer,
    which comes with a mouse and a slightly bigger screen, but I must confess I can't
    get myself to do much font design work on the weekends.\r\n\r\nThat said, I do
    100% of my work in Fontlab; I draw directly on screen, although I get ideas from
    doodling on paper (mostly at work) with pen and pencil. Another caveat: I've never
    completed a font, and the half a dozen fonts I have in production have mostly
    not progressed beyond the drawing stage. So I can only judge Fontlab's drawing
    capabilities.\r\n\r\nI find Fontlab's drawing tools far easier to work with than
    Illustrator's, and I first used the latter at least 9 years ago. For this reason,
    I have used Fontlab to create outlines for simple lettering work that I could
    then import to Illustrator."
  created: '2007-03-08 23:49:52'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I work pretty much entirely in FontLab, plus some AFDKO tools. I'm lucky
    to have Miguel doing downstream production stuff (the \"heavy lifting\" I think
    of it as).\r\n\r\nI think that the strong majority of serious font production
    today uses FontLab for at least some stages of the work.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-03-09 05:45:17'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>\u201CRead it and weep\u2026\u201D\r\nWhy is that?</em>\r\n\r\nDennis,
    you appeared to find the claim of 400,000% zoom ludicrous, so I was merely backing
    up my statement with visual proof. I agree with you that it may be excessive for
    drawing glyphs. My real gripe is that FontLab's zoom capabilities are a little
    stingy, e.g.:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fl_max_3835.gif]\r\n\r\nAbove
    is the maximum zoom level available from Fontlab; below is the same glyph in DTL
    Fontmaster Bezier Master, two levels short of maximum...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dtl_nearmax_5816.gif]\r\n\r\nWith
    FL, it isn't readily apparent that the lower node in the DTL example isn't smooth,
    while that fact was apparent with DTL and was corrected. Moral of the story: Fontlab,
    we'd like more zoom, please."
  created: '2007-03-09 15:57:43'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Nick, have you ever calculated (or empirically tested) from which printing
    resolution/size the kink becomes apparent? I dare say that the fact that the node
    is not smooth is invisible when printed.\r\n\r\nApart from that, the node in your
    example seems to be unnecessary. You should keep the number of nodes a low as
    possible in order to keep the contour smooth.\r\n\r\nThe fact that FL sometimes
    does not recognise or even produces unsmooth nodes has nothing to do with zoom
    levels. Moral of my story: Fontlab, keep smooth nodes smooth at all times, please.
    Meaning, for instance, that when constraining the angle of the BCP by holding
    shift this should not be constrained to the previous angle of that BCP but the
    angle of the opposite BCP/line segment.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-09 19:13:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the node in your example seems to be unnecessary.</em>\r\n\r\nThere are
    some good reasons to put a node at the middle of an \"s\" curve.\r\nIt does give
    a little bit better control of the shape, and I believe there is also some rendering/hinting/whatever
    technical-thingy benefit."
  created: '2007-03-09 20:21:49'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>convert segments from curve to line when you delete some points</em>\r\n\r\nSweet
    lord, that annoys the sh!t out of me too!\r\n\r\nI like Illustrator's Bezier tool
    WAAAAAAY better than FontLab's\u2014 BUT vector editing in Illustrator just plain
    sucks. I would prefer to use FontLab exclusively, but I think FontLab's Pathfinder-esque
    features are very counterintuitive and don't work very well. They both have their
    flaws."
  created: '2007-03-09 21:13:26'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Above is the maximum zoom level available from Fontlab; below is the
    same glyph in DTL Fontmaster Bezier Master, two levels short of maximum\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nA
    problem I'm also encountering working on a heavily detailed display face. I've
    got to <strong>guess</strong> where the point is sometimes."
  created: '2007-03-09 21:16:26'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Wait: In FL you can zoom far past the point where one pixel represents one
    unit in FL. Therefore, your monitor can show you with great precision exactly
    where a point is. You can use the arrow keys to move it single units, and you
    can watch it move. What''s inadequate about that? '
  created: '2007-03-09 21:47:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Wait\r\n\r\nMy experience is like Carl's. If you go to View/Zoom the closest
    zoom seems to be 1 unit = 4 pixels. I  usually just do keyboard +, which gives
    me the zoom tool, and I seem to get as close as I need to with that. "
  created: '2007-03-09 22:06:15'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>convert segments from curve to line when you delete some points</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    happens when you select and delete the first (blue) node. This can be avoided
    by deleting the node by left-right clicking. No idea if something comparable can
    be done on the mac.\r\n\r\nFL's node deletion is in fact very poor, improving
    this is on top of my wish list for future versions."
  created: '2007-03-09 22:50:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Control-click on the Mac.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-10 00:33:11'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>If I remember rightly both Mark Simonson and Nick Shinn use a wacom tablet.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    have one, but I don't use it for drawing fonts much. I know that Jean Fran\xE7ois
    Porchez uses one almost exclusively.\r\n\r\nI used to do most of my drawing in
    Illustrator back when I used Fontographer. I was more comfortable with the tools
    in Illustrator and Fontographer had an easy way to import art using copy and paste.\r\n\r\nA
    couple years ago I switched completely over to using FontLab. I think the drawing
    tools work great for drawing letters (with a mouse). I don't use the pen tool,
    though. It's a little wonky. Or maybe I just haven't figured it out. Mainly I
    place nodes using the corner tool--connect the dot fashion. After this, I convert
    the nodes and lines to curves and smooth points as needed. I also use the rectangle
    and oval tools to lay down basic shapes and then tweak them as needed.\r\n\r\nIn
    some cases, I sketch letters on paper first. But I don't do tight sketches. The
    main purpose of the sketch is to capture the gesture and proportions of the letter.
    It is much faster to clean up in the computer than on paper.\r\n\r\nNo matter
    what software or input device I use, my most reliable tools are my hands and eyes."
  created: '2007-03-10 02:24:05'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t use the pen tool, though. It\u2019s a little wonky...After
    this, I convert the nodes and lines to curves and smooth points as needed.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    agree. And the second sentence there is why I'm not terribly thrilled about using
    FontLab's drawing tools exclusively. I should be able to define my curves and
    lines <em>as I'm drawing</em>. Sometimes I think the line/curve conversion stuff
    wastes so much time.\r\n\r\nAbout zooming...I have zoomed in as far as possible
    in FontLab, and trust me...it ain't enough sometimes. In my case, I'm not editing
    vectors drawn directly into FontLab. I'm editing handdrawn ink that was converted
    to vectors, which means\u2014 <strong>a lot more points</strong>. Is there a feature
    in preferences I'm missing?"
  created: '2007-03-10 15:56:53'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "As far as I can tell, FontLab Studio 5 is used for drawing at Adobe, Ascender,
    Bitstream, Elsner+Flake, Linotype, Monotype, P22, Lucas Fonts, Porchez Typofonderie,
    Tiro Typeworks and many other professional font foundries. Some of these foundries
    use other tools such as Adobe FDK, Microsoft VOLT or Microsoft VTT to complement
    the font production process. Hoefler & Frere-Jones and The Font Bureau use both
    Fontographer and FontLab Studio. URW++ uses DTL FontMaster. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-03-11 03:06:28'
- author:
    name: erinww
  body: "Hi there,\r\n\r\nI am about ready to generate my font via FontLab. Am I able
    to to just drop the eps file into FontLab? Is there a way to not include Illustrator?
    Can I just go right into drawing my font from FontLab?\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: erinww
    body: well, lol, to answer my own question after reading a lot of these posts,
      I know I can just draw  my font straight from FontLab- thanks guys!
    created: '2010-01-25 20:04:13'
  created: '2010-01-25 19:34:21'
- author:
    name: erinww
  body: "Hi again,\r\n\r\nIs there a way to cut and paste/export a an illustrator
    file (this is what I used to design the font) into FontLab 5 without buying ScanFont?"
  created: '2010-01-25 20:18:29'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Download the FontLab manual and start reading.
  created: '2010-01-25 20:32:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: You can copy and paste one glyph at a time but be sure you scale your AI file
    large enough.
  created: '2010-01-25 20:51:15'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "An explanation I posted in an old thread:\r\n\r\n\"Scale your Illustrator
    art so that 1 point corresponds to 1 em unit (i.e., if your target cap height
    is 700 em units, make your caps in Illustrator 700 points tall). Move the Illustrator
    ruler zero point to the origin point of the character art you want to copy. Copy
    from Illustrator, paste in FL. Simple.\"\r\n\r\nThe thing you want to avoid is
    scaling your paths <em>after</em> you paste them into FontLab, especially scaling
    up. Make sure they are the right scale in Illustrator before copying.\r\n\r\nIf
    you have lots of glyphs to move, ScanFont will be a lot faster."
  created: '2010-01-25 21:00:58'
- author:
    name: BlackHoodieGS
    picture: 119154
  body: "I first want to thank everyone for their information, this forum was exactly
    what I was searching for. I am not currently a \"type design professional\", but
    that is the direction I would like to steer my career towards.\r\nA little unnecessary
    history, I have been sketching fonts since elementary school and only in the recent
    years have I consciously started to pursue typography as a viable part of my career.
    So much so, that for birthdays and anniversaries I request books on font/character
    design and history rather than the assumed flowers and jewelry. So, any suggestions
    for your favorite references would be great.\r\n\r\nonto my post...\r\n\r\n<em>
    Nick, have you ever calculated (or empirically tested) from which printing resolution/size
    the kink becomes apparent? I dare say that the fact that the node is not smooth
    is invisible when printed.</em>\r\n\r\nI am a production manager and in-house
    designer for a custom sign company working with large-scale graphics. So, even
    though magazine and web based design will never require that level of detailed
    attention to each node and bezier curve I do respect and want to thank the type
    designers who are aware of it. When you escape the parameters of points and scale
    to feet/meters that node is no longer invisible. "
  created: '2010-02-04 22:19:44'
date: '2007-03-05 22:32:38'
node_type: forum
title: Do font pros really use FontLab or Fontographer?

---
