---
author:
  name: Linda Cunningham
  picture: 111784
body: .
comments:
- author:
    name: cooper design
    picture: 111844
  body: Could be the greatest mug ever.
  created: '2007-03-05 20:27:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Coarse. '
  created: '2007-03-05 20:58:23'
- author:
    name: hn2o
    picture: 109689
  body: "hmm\u2026 i think this is actually the logo of <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A-Style\">a-style</a>,
    an italian fashion company\r\n\r\na brilliant logo nonetheless."
  created: '2007-03-05 23:17:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "the logo of ...fashion company\r\n\r\nThe fact that it is a sales gimick--admittedly
    an extremely clever one--is not at all surprising. \r\n\r\nI think it's sad that
    instead of respecting sex as a private expression of love, it is thrown in our
    faces on logos to sell us stuff. \r\n\r\nI am an old guy, and so you may dismiss
    this as the grumblings of a old man. But the reality is that the public space--advertising,
    entertainment, politics--is full of anger and sexual provocation devoid of love,
    and it once was not--at least not on anywhere near such a scale.  \r\n\r\nI just
    saw the movie 'Idiocracy', which captures the coarseness of the contemporary life
    with such accuracy that it is depressing rather than funny. Of course this logo
    is brilliant compared to most in the same vein. But it is still cut from the same
    cloth.   "
  created: '2007-03-05 23:43:59'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>I think it\u2019s sad that instead of respecting sex as a private expression
    of love, it is thrown in our faces on logos to sell us stuff.</em>\r\n\r\nInteresting
    -- I saw the mug as a great piece of art, not as something rather tawdry.  Sigmund
    would find it compelling that you seem to see \"sex, sex, sex\" everywhere, Bill.\r\n\r\nWhat's
    really odd is that I was drawn to the site originally to check out a book entitled
    \r\n<em>BILL BERKSON\u2019S\r\nSUDDEN ADDRESS: SELECTED LECTURES 1981-2006</em>....\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-06 00:22:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">you seem to see \u201Csex, sex, sex\u201D everywhere, Bill.\r\n\r\nI don't
    think I'm more sex obsessed than the average guy--which is to say, normal insanity
    :) \r\n\r\nWhat the designer wants me to do is to puzzle out the graphic so instead
    of seeing a letter A and two circles I see a couple engaged in sex. The hidden/blatant
    thing is its cleverness. \r\n\r\nDon't tell me you posted it without seeing it?
    That would be delightful :) The web site spells it out for you, just in case.
    \r\n\r\nThe 'other Bill Berkson' is I believe a distant cousin, though I haven't
    met him. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Linda Cunningham
      picture: 111784
    body: "<em>Don\u2019t tell me you posted it without seeing it? That would be delightful
      :) The web site spells it out for you, just in case.</em>\r\n\r\nUm, well, I
      saw the title of the page and the colour, and that was about it.  That'll teach
      me to spend my morning squiting at html and css, and my afternoon working on
      a very delicate piece of art.  When you can't focus more than 6\" in front of
      your face, looking at anything else other than recognizable letters is, at best,
      problematic.\r\n\r\n<em>The \u2018other Bill Berkson\u2019 is I believe a distant
      cousin, though I haven\u2019t met him.</em>\r\n\r\nA likely story....  ;-)"
    created: '2007-03-06 03:08:54'
  created: '2007-03-06 00:33:02'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I\u2019m afraid I didn\u2019t see it until I saw it in the wikipedia link,
    I was thinking of a thread that Nick Shinn started about the position of umlauts.
    Agree about the sales gimmick thing, fortunately their style is not totally obsessed
    by sex\r\nhttp://www.astyle.it//A-Style//Motomondiale//Foto%20Assen//Girls//003.html\r\n\r\nhonestly,
    why do they only sponsor the Assen round of MotoGP?\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-03-06 08:33:54'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "I saw this earlier today and I thought, \"What's the big deal\"- just a capital
    A and a diaeresis tilted off to the side in a not so special slab. But now I 'get
    it' and its not cool. I agree with William. Sex is tossed around too much as a
    trivial thing-  it should be treated tenderly and sacredly.\r\n\r\nMike Diaz :-/"
  created: '2007-03-06 08:58:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Um, well...\r\n\r\nThat explains it; bless you, my child :)\r\n\r\nI guess
    this is harder to see than I thought. That makes it even more clever, as people
    will learn more by a whisper campaign, than by seeing it at first. However, once
    seen the coarseness is there. \r\n\r\nI guess because of the title 'letters have
    feelings too' I knew there must be more than meets the eye at first, so I puzzled
    over it and after half a minute I saw it. Maybe drawing type all day also helps
    me see stuff--I hope so!\r\n\r\n>a likely story\r\n\r\nBecause the other Bill
    Berkson, the poet, is a little older and published first, I've always used 'William'
    as an author.  "
  created: '2007-03-06 13:00:19'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I puzzled as well, maybe it\u2019s the curved image.\r\nI don\u2019t think
    it\u2019s my innocence ):)\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-03-06 13:09:51'
- author:
    name: hn2o
    picture: 109689
  body: "i think you're both right. \r\n\r\nadvertising etc. is so full of sleazy
    jokes, that it's just enervating and stale, and i, for one, neither want to be
    annoyed nor bored by sex. it should always be something special.\r\n\r\nbut\u2026
    \r\ni still think this is funny, i can't help myself. admittedly it's dubious
    as a logo. which of course makes it a bad logo. hmm\u2026 now i'm confused\u2026"
  created: '2007-03-06 13:22:34'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Took me a while and only after reading the whole thread could I make the
    two dots turn into little decapitated heads.... sure it's not my innocence, either.
    ;)\r\n\r\nK."
  created: '2007-03-06 15:08:26'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I saw it right away - hmmm what does that say about me?
  created: '2007-03-06 15:34:09'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: It means you don't have to deal with bifocals like us old farts....  ;-)
  created: '2007-03-06 15:55:27'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "Disappointing. No civilized coffee drinker should use this cup. Not because
    of the image, but because of its shape: the proportions are wrong, and the edge
    not well defined.\r\n\r\nThis is more like it:\r\nhttp://www.e-ad.it/express/immagini-express/Tazzina-espresso.jpg\r\nhttp://www.coffee-tea-toast.co.uk/images/carml_tea.jpg"
  created: '2007-03-06 15:56:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Googling, I found <a href=\"http://www.pezcyclingnews.com/?pg=fullstory&id=2437\">this
    story of the A style logo</a>. The interesting bit:\r\n\r\n\"At this time [from
    1991!] there was no income as A-style was just a Logo, nothing more. Some T-Shirts
    were printed and sold in a friend\u2019s shop in the centre of Milan. Two years
    ago Marco was presented to Massimo, a real gentleman that worked in the clothing
    business, who saw the real potential of this Logo in the \"Streetwear\" clothing
    market. There are now 2 factories that make only A-Style products. Marketing is
    still done in exactly the same way, Gorilla, Abusive, or call it what you like
    but very effective and a HUGE success.\""
  created: '2007-03-06 16:44:34'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'So it''s sort of like FCUK. Come up with an idea that appeals to 14-year-olds
    and watch the money roll in. '
  created: '2007-03-06 17:01:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Linda,\r\nI have trifocals and I saw it right away--I am an old dog too :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-06 17:08:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">old dog \r\n\r\nLook out, Dezcom has slipped his leash :)"
  created: '2007-03-06 17:12:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Or perhaps had a colonoscopy :-P\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-06 17:19:50'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: dezcom> umm.......   eew!
  created: '2007-03-06 18:53:52'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I've tried to write this several times now. Let's just say I am being a devil's
    advocate, for the sake of good conversation.\r\n\r\nI can't say I really mind
    the exploitation of libido in advertising. It makes sense. I think the feeble
    teasing of 'FCUK' was fairly lame compared to this, which has some subtlety, but
    that is irrelevant to the fact that either is a graphic innuendo.\r\n\r\nAlthough
    it probably sounds terribly new-fangled, a lot of people (mine, younger and older
    generations) I've grown up with enjoyed a variety of sexual activity, and some
    have found intimacy and meaningful relationships within and without that arena.
    Sex is a healthily rewarding expression of genetic drive. Love is about respect,
    trust, patience and some of our other higher traits.\r\n\r\nCuisine is a less
    dangerous sibling, because people don't \"carry the bloodline\" with a perfectly-prepared
    lobster.\r\n\r\nIn marketing, one's desire to be rewarded and recognized for effort,
    to belong to a community and feel wanted, and to feel secure are constantly promised.
    That is because it is what we want and if we think the product will give that,
    we'll pay for it.\r\n\r\nThe funny thing is, all of these things these things
    you receive from those who love you. A lot of those people you never picked, but
    were handed by genetics, circumstance, etc. But there is one who loves you that
    you pick. Your mate. Partner/spouse/lover etc. Probably, the one you most commonly
    procreate with.\r\n\r\nSex is demoted to a symbol of love, instead of being recognized
    as its own weird thing. And thus, it becomes not a cheap and tawdry thing that
    is largely harmless, especially with modern technology and hygiene. It becomes
    a poor symbol of something great, complicated and inherently hard to sell. Marketers
    would be suicidal not to value sex so greatly.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-07 08:17:20'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/20638?from=66&comments_per_page=01\">And
    : with Arabic K?</a>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kaf2dots_4179.gif]"
  created: '2007-03-07 08:41:47'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "I don't get it. Is the umlaut two breasts? two balls? \r\nplease explain.\r\n\r\nalex\r\n.........................................................\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bisondesign.no\">Bison Design</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myspace.com/sponnorway\">Sp\xF6n</a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-07 10:50:16'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: Two heads.
  created: '2007-03-07 11:58:31'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: Legs on shoulders?! Or Rotate -90.0 and look gain?!
  created: '2007-03-07 13:44:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Choz, the view you express, one variety of 'sexual modernism', has been around
    for approximately a century, and advocates the separation of love, sex and marriage.
    You can read the history of it in <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Modernization-Sex-Havelock-Virginia-paperbacks/dp/0801495393/ref=sr_1_1/002-2366700-8164814?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1173277483&sr=8-1\">this
    book</a>. \r\n\r\nThe advocates of sexual modernism have typically regard those
    who disagree with them as backward, stuck in outdated views of the pre-contraception
    era. \r\n\r\nHowever, in my view, and the view of many others, now the situation
    is reversed. Sexual modernism has proven to be a huge failure over the past century,
    both in theory and in practice, and its current advocates are ignoring the lessons
    of the past century, and particularly the last 50 years. Just to cite one fact,
    married people <a href=\"http://marriage.rutgers.edu/Publications/MythsMarriage.pdf\">
    report</a> more satisfying sex lives than unmarried. \r\n\r\nIf you are interested,
    there is now a big literature out there on these issues, with a huge amount of
    academic research. Good internet sites, should you be interested, are the <a href=\"http://center.americanvalues.org/\">Center
    for Marriage and Family</a>, the <a href=\"http://marriage.rutgers.edu/\">National
    Marriage Project</a>, a research center, and SmartMarriages.com.  "
  children:
  - author:
      name: gordsellar
    body: "William, \r\n\r\nIt's interesting that, while my views are probably closer
      to yours than to Choz's, I'm  not sure it's for the same reasons. To look at
      your example, married people may report greater satisfaction in their sex lives,
      but it also seems to me that married people probably feel more pressure -- internal,
      if nothing else -- to validate their marriage and their sex life, given the
      climate you describe. (Validation of marriage is part of the inner game of marriage,
      as it were. One reason that young married couples are always telling unmarried
      couples to hurry up and get married.) \r\n\r\nI'd imagine that single people,
      who are not really beholden to anyone else, might be more honest in discussing
      dissatisfaction. I think that the pressure <i>not</i> to admit sexual dissatisfaction
      for a married person could be both very high, and possibly crucial to the success
      of a marriage. (Since not everyone can be sexually satisfied all the time.)
      \r\n\r\nIt's quite possible that some kind of dissatisfaction with one's sex
      life is built into the human condition, and married people just talk about it
      less. It certainly makes sense in terms of evolution -- if the cup is 7/8s full
      at best, one is more likely to take advantage of other mating opportunities,
      and have more descendants. (cf. All kinds of books, but most interestingly Jared
      Diamond's _The Third Chimpanzee_ on how human mating habits seem to fit this
      pattern.) Like depression, it could be that a low-level continuing thread of
      dissatisfaction (which is just part of the human condition) has effectively
      been pathologized, so that far more people are convinced that they're dissatisfied
      in a way that others aren't, and cannot talk about it. \r\n\r\nOf course, that
      sounds elementary, but I often think things that sound elementary haven't been
      taken into account when people set out to do research. They often fail to see
      past the assumptions of their own culture or personal value system, if you know
      what I mean. \r\n\r\nFinally, the traditional picture of marriage as presented
      by those who think it's the cure for social problems in the West seem to ignore
      all of the seedy underground infrastructure that made a monogamous marriage
      system actually function without recourse to divorce. London in the Victorian
      Era was teeming with streetwalkers and whorehouses, and so was 19th Century
      France. This pattern is much more visible if you travel in other societies,
      such as in Latin America or East Asia. In such societies, married women often
      sublimate sexual energies to other areas of their lives, and men get release
      outside the marriage on a semi-regular basis (and are expected to do so). The
      rise of divorce as an ostensible antidote to sexual dissatisfaction is problematic,
      but that doesn't mean we didn't have other distasteful antidotes to it in the
      past. We most certainly did, and still do. \r\n\r\n(If you don't believe me,
      come to South Korea sometime. The sex trade is operating in literally every
      neighbourhood I've walked through in this country. And I've heard similar things
      about lots of other places, too.)\r\n\r\nBut all that said, I too am not all
      that happy about how crass all discussion and depiction of sexuality has become.
      We have a long tradition as humans of laughing about things we're anxious about,
      and humans are naturally anxious about sex and sexuality, but there's funny,
      and then there's just crass. This strikes me as just crass. (Once I saw it.
      I couldn't until I read the thread, though.)"
    created: '2007-03-08 02:56:39'
  created: '2007-03-07 14:51:01'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<strong> Some might find Your link to the Center for Marriage and Family
    at the <em>Institute for American Values</em> contains material that is far more
    offending than a doggy style A. </strong>\r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2007-03-07 15:30:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Fredo, I don't think you can avoid offending those who are offended simply
    by views differing from their own. \r\n\r\nI think the debate about the relations
    of love, sex, and marriage is an important debate, wherever you stand on it. Those
    who want to avoid it and the associated research in my opinion do so at their
    own peril. \r\n\r\nIncidentally, sexual modernists themselves would be split on
    the A-style  logo. As the history book I linked to explains, there is a split
    between romantic modernists and 'pleasure ethic' modernists. The romantic modernists
    want to keep love and sex together, but split those off from marriage. Pleasure
    ethic modernists, like Kinsey, are in favor of separating love and sex, regarding
    the pleasure from sex as being  a higher priority. The romantic modernists would
    not like the logo, and the pleasure ethic ones would. \r\n\r\nIn my own view,
    both traditional, pre-1900 views and sexual modernism are pass\xE9 and destined
    to the dustbin of history.\r\n\r\np.s. You might be interested in the <a href=\"http://marriage.rutgers.edu/Publications/SOOU/SOOU2005.pdf\">recent
    study</a> of marriage and family in Scandinavia. I find it refreshingly objective
    and very interesting. "
  created: '2007-03-07 15:49:05'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I hope no on is so offended that they have a serious problem with wither
    William or I speaking on this subject. This is interesting, and design is nothing
    without exploring the society in which it speaks. If you do, however, please do
    not marry either of us. :)\r\n\r\nI personally do not think so much of \"Relationship/Sexual
    Modernism\" that it is a valid solution to all weaknesses of prior models. Postmodernism
    has evolved because I am not the only one who thinks this way. Futura and OCR-A
    did not make serif faces obsolete, to draw a parallel. Today's myriad of divergent
    faces is how thew world wants it.\r\n\r\nThe point I was suggesting above is that
    Sexual Romanticism, as well as Moral Romanticism, has had much more of an impact
    on the power of sex in advertising than Sexual Modernism has, by overemphasizing
    the bond of sex and love. Due to the sanctioning of marriage by other major institutions
    in the classical form, 19th century views have persisted alongside modern ones.
    Marketing exploits the weaknesses in the romantic model because they work, and
    they only work at that level we have permitted.\r\n\r\nMy prediction is that you
    will slowly see a new type of \"postmodern\" ethical distinction. An atomization
    of the facets that make up social living into tiny shards, that exist solely with
    the intention to be reassembled. This is a geeky example, but perhaps you might
    think of it as each person is a microkernel, with access to a million moral-memes
    to access and build into their identity. Each is developed discretely. Then one's
    life would be the runtime compilation. This would mean the untangling of marriage,
    love AND sex from each other, then being refined and reintegrated. I am not saying
    I endorse this, just that it would mimic our behavior socially in other fields.\r\n\r\nIt
    may appear, one hundred years from now, that our use of sex to sell hemmeroid
    cremes, pickup trucks and lumber are nonsensical and quanint. I think it will
    likely take longer, due to biological issues, but I still currently hold Romanticism
    at fault more than the Modernist distinctions, for the power of sex in advertising."
  created: '2007-03-07 17:54:26'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "I just got an email asking me to be clarify the last post.\r\n\r\n<strong>Marketing
    relies on traditional views of love to empower sex as a symbol of it.</strong>"
  created: '2007-03-07 18:28:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Marketing relies on tabulations of data that shows they sold more Budlight
    than before when the have commercials with barely clad babes in them. They don't
    even look at the philisophical differences of Modernism vs Romanticism. Marketing
    folks are all about money. T&A sells beer and cars. Romantic stuff sells greeting
    cards and engagement rings. This is not a philosophically based notion.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-07 18:35:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The A-style marketers deliberately used a 'guerilla' marketing approach as
    they thought it would sell to the group who would buy their stuff. They are young
    people who like think of themselves as 'rebels' and 'advanced'. So they plastered
    it all over the streets. The marketers probably don't give a damn whether the
    people they are successfully selling to are deluded fools or leaders into a better
    future. So long as they buy, they're happy. \r\n\r\nSo I think Chris has it about
    right as far as marketing: marketers just do whatever they think will work for
    their target population. However, I do think they look at the philosophy of their
    target polulation: some marketing targets those with traditional views, some with
    romantic views, some with 'pleasure ethic' views, and some who like to think that
    if they get drunk beautiful women will fall all over them :) "
  created: '2007-03-07 18:44:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I often think things that sound elementary haven\u2019t been taken into
    account when people set out to do research. \r\n\r\nGord, I don't think you're
    giving the researchers enough credit here. If you want to criticize their methodology,
    then you need to get specific. I have met and talked with a number of these researchers,
    and they are extremely aware of problems of distortions in self-reporting and
    selection effects, and try to avoid and compensation for them. And they are very
    aware that academic colleagues or those who politically disagree will rip them
    up in print if their methodology is weak. \r\n\r\nFor what it's worth, they report
    that there is a 'honeymoon' effect where a newly married couple is extremely positive
    about their partner and the marriage for the first few years, if I remember correctly.
    But in long married couples they are brutally honest. \r\n\r\nIf you've been married
    a long time, I think you will find this very credible. \r\n\r\nBecause I criticize
    sexual modernism, it doesn't mean that I am holding up Victorian marriage as an
    ideal; it had a lot of problems, and sexual modernism was one reaction to them.
    I am saying that the current condition of love, sex, and marriage is far from
    ideal. The current situation will not last, and the only question is how it will
    change. "
  created: '2007-03-08 03:28:42'
- body: Am I missing something? What mug? The top post is empty ... ?
  created: '2007-03-08 04:38:08'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Chris: <em>They don\u2019t even look at the philosophical differences of
    Modernism vs Romanticism. Marketing folks are all about money.</em>\r\n\r\nI am
    sure that if they don't know why, it still works for some reason. Possibly the
    one I propose. Lots of factors are picked to affect the target of a successful
    marketer, whether the marketer is aware of why they work thaqt way. And hey, if
    'philes and designers can ponder it, who knows what a marketer thinks before he
    goes to sleep, or debates at the water cooler. They are still people, sort of.
    ;)\r\n\r\nGord: <em>It\u2019s interesting that, while my views are probably closer
    to yours than to Choz\u2019s, I\u2019m not sure it\u2019s for the same reasons.</em>\r\n\r\nDespite
    anything that may seem to sound anti-marriage, I am not. The The only part I am
    expressing here is that I enjoy crassness, at a philosophical level. I feel that
    it has a frankness that I empathize with when confronted by the compromises we
    make each day. existence. other problems. Because I don't see blatant sexuality
    as an attack against the better elements of the institution of marriage, I feel
    free to enjoy the wittier innuendos. Yeah, laughing does ease tension. \r\n\r\n<em>validation
    of ...[any thing one is invested in]...is part of the inner game of [thing]...</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    reasons I didn't mention anything like that is because I thought that bias was
    assumed, and I'm not attacking marriage. My wife would kill me.~\r\n\r\nWilliam:
    <em>The current situation will not last, and the only question is how it will
    change.</em>\r\n\r\nI am really enjoying this discussion. To the above, I would
    guess that change will arrive with new technology, and be determined to benefit
    those who control the technology. By technology, I don't mean hover cars/robots
    stuff. Fire, republics, feudalism and literacy were socially important technologies
    that changed the way things were done.\r\n\r\nThe postmodernist \"tech\" approach
    to L/S/M was one fanciful model built from a mash of open source development concepts,
    as those have some interesting philosophical impacts, and really answer some of
    Modernism's flaws. I know, relationships and mores are not the same as software
    and the wwweb, but surely the lives of the coming generation are influenced by
    recent developments?\r\n\r\nBurke: <em>Am I missing something? What mug? The top
    post is empty \u2026 ?</em>\r\n\r\nTh original post has been severely truncated.
    I will not try to defeat that by posting the link here, but can describe it as
    simply a coffee cup, with a cute caption, showing the logo described further in
    this thread.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-08 05:23:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I enjoy crassness, at a philosophical level. I feel that it has a frankness
    that I empathize with\r\n\r\nInteresting. I would draw the lines in a different
    way. I really have a distaste for the mandatory covering of the women's hair,
    as is the case for Christian nuns, Orthodox Jewish women, and traditional Muslim
    women. To me it is a supressing of women's sexuality, and a subjugation of women.
    In answer to the traditional view that women are too tempting to men, I think
    my wife's answer: \"Control yourselves, men!\" is apt. \r\n\r\nHowever, modesty
    becomes a woman. For if sexual allure is the main thing about a woman--eg Anna
    Nichole--it is demeaning and dehumanizing to the woman. So there is some kind
    of balance of modesty and allure that non-traditionalist women strike. This is
    an individual matter that each woman decides for herself. And it usually changes
    with age and station in life. \r\n\r\nAllure is one thing, and crass is another,
    though. We have a choice about how to treat sexuality, both in the public media
    and privately. We can either make it crass or raise it to a higher spiritual plane.
    When the public media are filled with crassness and coarseness, I think it does
    affect the tone of everyday life, and especially affects adolescents. \r\n\r\nAs
    far as humor, yes crass can be funny, as in Borat's incredibly crass doings--funnier
    in the TV show than the movie, but a kind of perverse genius none the less. The
    A style logo is clever but not funny. And once recognized it sticks around as
    an image, being crass.  Would you want your daughter or son wearing it? Would
    you want to wear it? We are innundated with crassness, so to me crass is not 'frank'
    or daring, but just a piling on of the assaults to human dignity, compassion and
    beauty that we experience daily. "
  created: '2007-03-08 15:12:15'
- author:
    name: gordsellar
  body: "William, \r\n\r\nMaybe the researchers are more fairminded and cannier than
    I imply, but it seems clear to me that there's an agenda at work in anyone who
    sets out to study something like \"sexual satisfaction\" comparing married couples
    and singles. And to be brutally honest, I've had more than my fair share of experiences
    of academics saying relatively self-evident things as if they were newfound truths...
    and relatively inane or wrong things without any apparent sense of how out to
    lunch those claims were. \r\n\r\nI have to say the crassness wouldn't bug me so
    much if it stayed in the land of crap one inflicts on oneself... online. Once
    it's on shirts, you see it all over and the crassness becomes more, well, widespread.
    There's enough crap floating in the world. I'd rather see really beautiful things.
    \ (Yeah, crass crap can be enjoyable, but I'll always take Bach over Britney Spears.
    Always. But some people like crass stuff. :) )"
  created: '2007-03-08 18:50:45'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Linda, did you censor yourself? Or were you censored?
  created: '2007-03-08 19:22:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Apparently the Cup has runneth over.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-08 19:37:17'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Dezcom> always with the puns.... ahahahahha
  created: '2007-03-08 19:47:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Gord, \r\n\r\nIn a highly politicized subject, it is important to question
    data. However, simply dismissing research without looking into its quality  is
    of zero help in the search for truth on an important issue.  \r\n\r\nThe information
    on the comparative sexual satisfaction of married and unmarried comes from The
    National Health and Social Life Survey, done in 1992 on a sample of 3,500 men
    and women. You can read about the methodology <a href=\"http://cloud9.norc.uchicago.edu/faqs/sex.htm\">here</a>.
    It was carried out for the US Department of Health and Human Services, by professors
    from University of Chicago and State University of New York at Stoney Brook, and
    funded by seven large foundations. \r\n\r\nThis survey is quoted also by sites
    on information about Gays, as it reports higher percentages of Gays than conservatives
    like to acknowledge. I cannot find on the internet any criticism of its methodology.
    \r\n\r\nThe survey is also the basis of a chapter in <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Case-Marriage-Married-Healthier-Financially/dp/0767906322/ref=pd_bbs_sr_1/002-2366700-8164814?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1173382577&sr=8-1\">The
    Case for Marriage</a> by Linda Waite and Maggie Gallagher. The <a href=\"http://www.unmarried.org/case.html\">attack
    on the book</a> by the political opponents don't criticise this particular survey
    or the data that Waite and Gallagher use from it.\r\n\r\nI conclude from the size
    of the survey, the professionalism of the authors, and the lack of criticism of
    it that it is pretty sound. "
  created: '2007-03-08 19:54:38'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Eben wrote: <em>Linda, did you censor yourself? Or were you censored?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    censored myself: it was either that or haul out [[The Silence Brigade]] real quick.\r\n\r\nIt
    would be nice if other people could do the same and let this thread die.\r\n\r\n(hint,
    hint)"
  created: '2007-03-08 20:48:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: '''kay.'
  created: '2007-03-08 21:00:59'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: 'This was not exactly a flame war. I thought it was a pretty thoughtful and
    positive exploration of some sensitive issues. Alas, I''ll chat with some of you
    on this again another time and place, perhaps. Just consider the name of my last
    typeface, first. ;) Caio! '
  created: '2007-03-08 22:30:40'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think that while we do discuss social political & other not strictly type
    oriented stuff here and it can and has gotten out of hand before (which isn't
    good); and while it is also true that I disagree with much of what is said; I
    can't really say that I think there is anything basically wrong with it this expression
    prior to the point at which it discourages participation. A great deal of it amounts
    to noise as far as someone who is actually interested in Letters, type, fonts
    etc. is concerned. But on the other hand these glyphs we make are used to make
    meaning - so we can't really divorce ourselves from that relationship on Typophile
    even as we might seek to keep a signal to noise ratio that's reasonable. \r\n\r\nThis
    thread might be heading in a semi-noisy direction but I don't think it's a problem
    myself. On the other hand I don't think I would have written in to except for
    the fact that you felt you had to take the image away. I thought your original
    post was a totally reasonable. \r\n\r\nBut to respect your wishes - I won't follow
    up further.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-08 23:06:48'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "As for the logo, it's cute. What I find offensive about it is the 'guerilla'
    marketing (ie, grafitti). But, what works, works, so from a pure marketing standpoint,
    hard to knock it.\r\n\r\n\"It would be nice if other people could do the same
    and let this thread die.\"\r\n\r\nOh, c'mon. It's the internet. Threads take on
    their own lives and as long as folks aren't name calling..."
  created: '2007-03-09 14:51:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Threads take on their own lives and as long as folks aren\u2019t name calling\u2026\r\n\r\nI
    agree.\r\n\r\nLinda innocently opened this thread, but it turned out to be a way
    different topic than she intended, so I understand she wants it to just go away.
    \ \r\n\r\nBut to me this is a pretty interesting case study on the topic of sex
    in advertising--and one that involves graphic design and in this case type. \r\n\r\n>from
    a pure marketing standpoint, hard to knock it. \r\n\r\nFrom a marketing standpoint
    it is great. But I assume you think designers should also be concerned with social
    responsibility. Are there uses of sex in advertising that do bother you from an
    ethical point of view?"
  created: '2007-03-09 15:43:10'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"From a marketing standpoint it is great. But I assume you think designers
    should also be concerned with social responsibility.\"\r\n\r\nPeople should be
    concerned with social responsibility.\r\n\r\nDesigners should be concerned with
    their client's needs/goals.\r\n\r\nThey don't always mesh and it's up to each
    individual to care or not. I don't pass judgement on either.\r\n\r\n\"Are there
    uses of sex in advertising that do bother you from an ethical point of view?\"\r\n\r\nSex
    in ads isn't the issue, but, rather, society's reaction to it. And that varies
    wildly from culture to culture/country to country/city to city. However, the effectiveness
    of sex in advertising seems to stay relatively consistent regardless of the particular
    culture.\r\n\r\nSex in ads sometimes bothers me from an intellectual point of
    view. But, then again, that's true for most advertising. ;o)\r\n\r\nIn the end,
    I think if graphic designers truly cared about social effects of advertising and
    marketing and consumerism, they wouldn't be graphic designers. ;0)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-09 16:30:28'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Another interesting tangent for this would be to discuss the purpose of the
    logo. In reading some of the links it seems as if this is an interesting case
    where the logo has become the product. The logo was designed years before any
    tangible product was created. \r\n\r\nAre there other examples of that? Perhaps
    the smiley face? Peace symbol?"
  created: '2007-03-09 16:34:02'
date: '2007-03-05 19:35:19'
title: Sex, crass, and what academics may or may not know.

---
