---
author:
  name: TypophileGirl
body: "i have always a problem choosing typefaces that work well together. this is
  sad. \r\n\r\nany recommendations on how to go about doing this? vauge question of
  sorts, but anything would help. thanks!\r\n\r\n "
comments:
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "One way to get around racking your brain is by picking typefaces from the
    same designer can help. Its the easiest way for me.\r\n\r\nAlso from the same
    period/style/source can help but that's not a guarantee. For example Mantinia
    and Galliard go very well...  by the same author.\r\n\r\n\r\nMikey :0)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-06 04:05:31'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Or Univers with Egyptienne F by Adrian Fruitger, or Gill Sans and Joanna
    by Eric Gill, etc..\r\n\r\nA lot of designers build their letterforms upon the
    same skeletal structure, even if not on purpose. So I'd say that is a good direction
    to start for sure. Even Bringhurst recommends that approach."
  created: '2007-03-06 04:16:37'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Here is another way... find printed literature- magazines, books, manuals,
    etc. and see how others combine different type. I keep a note pad at all times
    with me when I'm out and about. \r\n\r\nSoaking yourself into issues of How, STEP
    & Print will have raring to go.\r\n\r\nThe Font Shop virtual newletters combine
    type nicely too.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontshop.com/fontfeed/\r\n\r\nbrowse all the
    past months with the pull down menu at the right\r\n\r\nMike Diaz :-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-06 04:35:23'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Looking at the structure of the typefaces is another (related) method of
    choosing typefaces. For instance, Bodoni is very geometric and has a very vertical
    stress that matches well with the grotesques and neo-grotesques like Helvetica.
    \r\n\r\nBut neither of them match something like Galliard because of it's diagonal
    stress and humanist shape.\r\n\r\nThat's one reason to look at the period in which
    a typeface was designed, because the era greatly influenced the methods and/or
    structures on which the letters were built."
  created: '2007-03-06 04:36:48'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "The best advice, in my opinion, it that of SUF, which is to say, find examples
    you like. Take them apart and see how they work. For instance, if you think Frutiger
    is a perfect marriage for Caslon, then you know you can always invite them together
    to the party. But try to understand for yourself WHY you think they belong together,
    and you can apply this to other faces.\r\n\r\nI would avoid any advice that says,\"This
    face and that must never be used together,\" or \"These two faces are perfect
    together,\" or even \"Just combine faces by that designer.\" \r\nDesigning with
    type has to be a reflection of your own tastes, not prescribed rules."
  created: '2007-03-06 05:33:09'
- author:
    name: kostal
    picture: 111214
  body: "Sure, but that taste has to come from somewhere. Rules can help quite a bit
    and as long as you can step outside of those rules I don't think there is much
    harm in them.\r\n\r\nI agree to avoid the advice that says never do this or always
    do that... "
  created: '2007-03-06 06:00:14'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "This question often arises and I hope I don't sound like a robot as my answer
    is always the same: don't worry so match about compatible typefaces. Nearly any
    two types can work together. Pick typefaces that fit your subject and audience.
    If they are right for the project, they are right for each other.\r\n\r\nAn exception:
    when using two distinct typefaces within a single line or paragraph, try to match
    general proportions (asc/descender length and x-height). Or, pick a <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/virtual/newsletters/jun2006_b/\">font
    suite</a>."
  created: '2007-03-06 06:20:37'
- author:
    name: TypophileGirl
  body: "thanks for the great responses!\r\n\r\nthe reason i ask is that i was working
    on a project- a dialoge book, with 4 simultaneous conversations going on. \r\n\r\nin
    some conversations, the opinions contrast so i was thinking of working with the
    type in that sense but didn't know if the fact that they are completely different
    to begin with was enough of a difference."
  created: '2007-03-06 07:15:28'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "If you're creating the impression of simultaneous conversations, then I would
    suggest choosing faces that represent, at least in your own mind, the different
    characters of the quadralogue.\r\n\r\nkostal: certainly. I wasn't saying that
    no training or understanding of type is necessary. I guess I was suggesting to
    get the training and the understanding and then let your own vision be the guide.
    So often, \"Never\" and \"Always\" guides are offered as help, when I think that
    kind of view can be detrimental to good design."
  created: '2007-03-07 13:44:08'
- author:
    name: gulliver
    picture: 110581
  body: "I'll add my voice to those who recommend considering the structure of the
    font, as Robert Bringhurst advocates in <em>The Elements of Typographic Style.</em>\r\n\r\nConsideration
    of the structure involves looking at such characteristics as:\r\n<strong>art/design
    movement</strong> (renaissance humanist and neohumanist/lyrical modernist forms
    [Venetian, Garalde, etc.], baroque/rococo form, neoclassical/\"transitional\"
    form, romantic/\"modern\" form, realist form [Victorian, clarendon & Swiss gothic
    forms], geometric modernist form [such as Futura, Memphis and the like], various
    postmodernist forms, etc.)\r\n<strong>aperture</strong> (degree of openness or
    closedness of forms such as \"c\", \"e\", \"a\", \"s\", etc.)\r\n<strong>direction
    of axis</strong> (humanist [oblique], rationalist [vertical] or variable),\r\n\r\nOther
    characteristics less relevant to structure, but still worth considering when choosing
    compatible fonts, include:\r\n<strong>stroke</strong> (modulated or monolinear),\r\n<strong>terminal
    shape</strong> (pen-formed, modeled, lachrymal [teardrop-shaped], round [ball-shaped]\r\n\r\nA
    great place to start in choosing compatible typefaces is to choose serifed and
    sans-serifed fonts with basic structural characteristics in common, such as:\r\n\r\n<em>Geometric
    modernist fonts:</em> Beton, Candida, Marathon, Memphis, Rockwell or Stymie, etc.\r\n<em>or
    romantic/\"modern\" fonts:</em> Bodoni, Bulmer, Didot or Walbaum, etc.\r\n<em>paired
    with:</em> Avenir, Futura, or Kabel, etc.\r\n\r\nOr, <em>Realist-structured fonts:</em>
    Belizio, Clarendon, Glypha, Serifa, Volta, etc.\r\n<em>paired with:</em> Akzidenz-Grotesk,
    Folio, Helvetica, Imago, Univers, etc.\r\n\r\nOr, Renaissance-based <em>humanist
    and neohumanist fonts:</em> Albertina, Aldus, Bembo, Berling, PMN Caecilia, Chaparral,
    Dante, Garamond, Golden Cockerel, Joanna, Minion, Palatino, Plantin, Poppl-Pontifex,
    Scala, or many others,\r\n<em>paired with:</em> Frutiger, Gill Sans, Myriad, Linotype
    Projekt, Scala Sans, Syntax, etc.\r\n\r\nAs has been said already, these cannot
    be hard-and-fast rules. Even within similar structures, some pairings will work
    better than others, so use your own creative and critical judgement. However,
    once you have a good grasp of <em>similarly-structured</em> font pairings, you
    will be better-equipped to try your hand at effectively pairing fonts with <em>contrasting</em>
    structures.\r\n\r\nDavid Thometz"
  created: '2007-03-07 17:09:34'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "A few \"rules\" of things not to do.\r\n\r\na) don't choose faces that are
    \"too similar\" like Helvetica and Univers, for instance.\r\n\r\nb) don't choose
    faces that are \"too different\" like a very fine body text (sans) with a super
    heavy fatface heading -- basically, you don't want the fonts to fight each other.
    Different slants on the italics can also do this, if there will be a lot of italics
    happening.\r\n\r\nc) Don't mix your focus ... using a grunge heading with a formal
    script body, for instance. (Unless this is the statement you are trying to make)\r\n\r\nSet
    your samples with the options you like ... then put them away for 48 hours. Come
    back to them and the bad ones will probably stand out and say \"Ick\"."
  created: '2007-03-07 18:46:05'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "Advertisement vs. book typography\r\nWhat can work in one field does not
    automatically work in another."
  created: '2007-03-07 19:33:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Some types which don't seem to work together at similar sizes may work fine
    when one is much larger than the other.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-07 19:59:01'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'Just remembered: Jonathan Hoefler wrote a pretty good article on this in
    CA. Forgot which issue.'
  created: '2007-03-07 20:23:31'
- author:
    name: gulliver
    picture: 110581
  body: "\"Some types which don\u2019t seem to work together at similar sizes may
    work fine when one is much larger than the other.\"\r\n\r\nYes. Often, you will
    be able to nudge one font up or down several points in size to compensate for
    different apparent sizes or x-heights/body sizes.\r\n\r\nYou can also find surprising
    compatibilities between otherwise dissimilar types. For example, Joanna (a neohumanist
    slab-serifed font) looks beautiful when set with Fournier Italic (a neoclassical/transitional
    font). And the expressionist Post Mediaeval Italic makes a nice companion for
    Marathon, a more geometrically structured expressionist roman. And Centaur Roman
    (or Jenson) works beautifully with the blackletter San Marco used as a contrasting
    type for emphasis. The pen script El Greco, with adjustments made for size, makes
    an interesting italic companion for Raleigh, and so forth.\r\n\r\nExperiment and
    try new and unexpected combinations, but do it as knowledgeably as you can for
    the best results.\r\n\r\nDavid Thometz"
  created: '2007-03-07 20:37:41'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "This topic recently came up with a colleague of mine who was trying to find
    a good supplementary face to work with Bembo. At the same time I was designing
    a new edition in a series, and the publisher had supplied me with a PDF of a previous
    edition in that series, which I thought was problematic. Here's what I responded
    with, which may be useful here:\r\n\r\n<em>General typographic principle is that
    serifs don't mix well with other serifs. (For instance, my \"problem\" with the
    supplied PDF sample was the combination of Warnock [for body copy] and a clearly
    Modern type [used for display] -- mixing Renaissance and Romantic proportions
    = bad news).</em>\r\n\r\n<em>Such a combination is like mixing a contemporary
    rendition of classical Italian architecture with some Victorian gothic furniture.
    Some might call this \"eclectic,\" but to my mind it's just a mess. Thus, in looking
    for a secondary face for a serif, my instinct (based on the typographic theory
    that I've read and absorbed) is to go for a sans face (which is what I normally
    do for supplementary copy [notes, etc.]).</em>\r\n\r\n<em>But, it can't just be
    any sans, of course. In my redesign of the series I've stuck with Warnock for
    the body copy, and selected Quadraat Sans as the second face, because both share
    similar proporations and also make use of some unconventional hooks and beaks.
    For instance, here's a comparison of a few glyphs from each where you can see
    the distinctive \"hooks\" in a few letters. (The fact that Quadraat will be used
    at a smaller size [for notes, etc.] will balance the fact that it is quite a bit
    darker than Warnock.)</em>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Warnock-Quadraat_6621.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>In
    [my colleague's] case, you're working with Bembo, another classic Renaissance
    font, yet one that has become somewhat faceless due to over use. That said, it
    does have some distinctive shapes to it, and is based on classical proportions,
    so what you want is a sans that has the same. For my money, if I want to find
    a partner for something like Bembo (or Garamond or Jenson, etc.) I head straight
    to Legacy Sans. Here's a glance at Bembo & Legacy:</em>\r\n \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bembo-Legacy_5126.gif]\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n<em>Note
    some if their similarities, such as a connector of the \"g,\" the bracketed crossbar
    and curled tail of \"t,\" the understated \"J\" and \"Q\". These are just a few
    glyphs scrutinized, but from here you can see that the two have enough in common
    to likely work well together.</em>\r\n\r\n<em>Now, you may not be a fan of Legacy,
    but this sort of process tends to help for me. I just make a sample (like above)
    and plunk in a few possibilities to go with my body type, then look to see if
    they have anything in common both in terms of proportions and quirks.</em>"
  created: '2007-03-07 21:14:22'
- author:
    name: gulliver
    picture: 110581
  body: "Nice mixes, made nicer still since we can know and see  WHY they were chosen,
    and WHY they work so well together. It wasn't an arbitrary process, or a case
    of, \"Ah -- these look okay together.\" That's what non-designers do.\r\n\r\nDavid
    Thometz"
  created: '2007-03-07 21:51:19'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "I often look at sans and serif faces from the same designer - there's usually
    some sort of unconscious similarity in the letterforms between two faces.\r\n\r\n
    - Lex"
  created: '2007-03-08 00:15:55'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Picking agreeable typefaces isn't all that different from choosing wines --
    there are some basic rules ("red with beef, white with everything else" and "pick
    a simpler meal with a complex wine, and vice versa") and the experience to know
    when you should just pick what you like and tinker a little with each.  ;-)
  created: '2007-03-08 01:43:03'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I'm with Linda (and others). It is nice to sit down and find similarities
    in fonts and match them in that way. The sample above is good and those faces
    do work together. But, if you stick to such a strict way of doing it you will
    miss out on so many others pairings. A lot of it is experience, as Linda mentions.
    Until you actually work with the fonts, and play with them, you won't find your
    own sense of style.
  created: '2007-03-08 18:13:19'
- author:
    name: krojos
    picture: 114906
  body: "Another good technique, if you want to get your eyes dirty, is to pair typefaces
    side by side using:\r\n\r\nGabocse escobaG\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture-10_4781.jpg]\r\n\r\n(Trade
    Gothic with Filosofia and Gotham with Didot)\r\n\r\nYou can get a good sense for
    how letters look side by side and how the x-heights, widths, etc. match up."
  created: '2008-05-03 18:43:50'
- author:
    name: tezzutezzu
    picture: 114887
  body: "Wow! nice suggestions here!\r\nRecently I have been designing a website for
    a silkscreen studio in Milan and I wanted to merge the two spirits of the city:
    the slick, commercial fashion-oriented one and the traditional old spirit of Milanesi
    craftmanship.\r\nSo I came up with a choice of these two fonts:   \r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/belwetica_4733.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nMaybe
    for some will be a punch in the eye, but I found the coupling quite agreeable. "
  created: '2008-05-04 18:35:26'
- author:
    name: rad
  body: 'SCHOOL PROJECT  SELL ATYPEFACE AND TELL THE BLA BLA BLA ABOUT IT THE ONLY
    THING i CAN''T GET ANSWERED FOR MY DESIGN PROJECT IS WHAT OTHER TYPEFACES  OR
    FONTS IT WORKS WITH EXAMPLE IS IT GOOD WITH TAHOMA OR ARIEL i WANTED TO USE ADOBE
    PRO GARAMOND PUT i CANT FIND WHAT WORKS WITH IT . oh caps sorry= and by the way
    i can''t find the page it was on  dut some one wanted the adobe pro garamond for
    free and you guys jumped on him ! I got it for free on a frre fonts site. Two
    shool students only want them so they can fininsh projects and are not making
    a profit and thrree My teacher gave us a project with the optio n of only six
    type familiys which he had to assume we as non profesionals would have on our
    computers -I had only two of them and one of them I got from the free down load
    so i would of been stuck with one font choice which i think i used any ways arieal
    was boring font. I had helvetica on my computer at my old job I do not know how
    it got on ther but it is not on my home computer nor optima, and many other that
    many seem to have and i don''t have a bunch of money to buy bunch of fonts . its
    not stealing when you are not making money of it or are you going to tell me you
    never lent a book to a friend or gave it to them when you were done or a music
    cd so they could listen to it or how about a food reciepe that you liked and gave
    some one -did you make that person go out and by the book or did you write down
    the recipe. I hope whoever was asking for that font sees this  so he knows he
    has someone on his side the professionals that are making big bucks should willing
    pay for non free fonts because they can afford it and are using profesional sets.
    but let us minors learn some stuff withuot giong broke trying to go to school
    and are laid off and can barely feed ourselfs. get of your fracking high horses.
    I bet you guys down loaded (which I did not) all that free music when you could
    before they changed the law Oh but thatwas just file sharing.. '
  created: '2009-08-16 17:27:47'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "How about we send Adobe your info and tell them you ripped of one their fonts:\r\n\r\nFull
    name\r\nRene Doyle\r\nCity\r\nPunta Gorda\r\nState/Province\r\nFlorida\r\nCountry\r\nCharlotte
    county\r\nHome Page\r\nnone\r\nOccupation\r\nstudent"
  created: '2009-08-17 05:04:30'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Rene's post reminds me of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Heath_%28cartoonist%29#Great_Bores_of_Today|this]].
    (Shame I can't find the typical image that would go with it.)\r\n\r\nEver since
    I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2009-08-19 15:09:25'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Good rant, though. And the passion of the misspellings, but then <em>oh caps
    sorry=</em>, that sort of lets it down, ain't it?
  created: '2009-08-19 16:06:36'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "this is surely old news to the vets here but for those who need help:\r\n\r\nthe
    font finder on linotype looks like a great resource and tool.\r\n\r\ni particularly
    liked the find fonts by inspiration, and the form finder seems like the perfect
    thing to help you (but obviously they're not going to be showing fonts from other
    foundries, and i wish you could narrow the search more by things for text, display,
    and exclude certain things, like italics)"
  created: '2009-08-21 21:00:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: One feature of super-families that contain both sans and serif, quite apart
    from any stylistic matching, is that they will generally have matched vertical
    metrics--which means that if you insert, say, a couple of words of Bold Sans into
    a phrase of Regular Serif, there will be a nice alignment.
  created: '2009-08-22 05:46:51'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Agree with Stephen Coles about not worrying about matching type, to a point.
    Experiment, yes, but really look at the results. Are they to your liking - or
    not?\r\nWe get paid to have opinions.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2009-08-22 06:51:22'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Paul you are right. If you look at that example with Belwe and Helvetica;
    you\u2019ll those two are pretty ugly together (Well, Belwe is permanently ugly)\r\n\r\nMikey
    :-)"
  created: '2009-08-22 07:03:20'
- author:
    name: gulliver
    picture: 110581
  body: "There was a time when I would have called Belwe ugly too -- back when it
    was so overused as to make a designer cringe at the very sight of it. But now
    I see it as it is -- a very late Arts-&-Crafts-era (1926) type that was designed
    as a creative interpretation of Jenson, and revived in the 1970s when such styles
    were popular again. As such, it can be a useful choice for period work.\r\n\r\nIt
    may not be fashionable right now, but I wouldn't call it ugly, any more than I
    would call other Arts & Crafts or Art Nouveau styles ugly. It's all in how they're
    used in a design.\r\n\r\nBelieve it or not, young designers, there will come a
    time when many of today's stylish types will be derided by a new generation. :)\r\n\r\nHaving
    said that, however, I wouldn't have thought of pairing Belwe with Helvetica. The
    two have some definite structural incompatibilities, although the x-heights and
    proportions work together better than I would have guessed.\r\n\r\nInstead of
    the Swiss neo-grotesque Helvetica, I might look to other Arts-&-Crafts-era grotesques,
    such as Monotype Grotesque, Venus, AG Old Face, or Akzidenz Grotesk. Or, since
    Belwe has a relatively open, somewhat geometric structure, look to other geometric
    sanserifs like Kabel or even Peter Bruhn's Mercury to pair with with Belwe (those
    stylized lower-case \"g\"s look like they were made for each other). Barmeno,
    Legacy Sans or other Jenson-derived sanserifs might be other options.\r\n\r\nDavid
    Thometz"
  created: '2009-08-27 21:33:08'
- author:
    name: dbonneville
    picture: 118651
  body: "I thought I'd pass this along:\r\n\r\nhttp://bonfx.com/19-top-fonts-in-19-top-combinations/\r\n\r\nI
    created a set of combinations as a launching point from only in wide use, so that
    it would be helpful.\r\n\r\nI have a resource book about about 300 combinations
    coming out in 2010, as well as an iPhone app called \"Font Combos\".\r\n\r\nVisit
    the above link for more info on the book or the app. I hope it's helpful!"
  created: '2010-06-11 21:27:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Doug, your recommendations in \"19 top fonts\" are safe, easy and boring.\r\nThe
    typefaces you recommend were almost all designed long ago, (none this century)
    and are published by corporations.\r\n\r\nI declare my bias: I am alive, design
    original typefaces, and own the foundry that publishes them.\r\n\r\nGet with the
    tour!"
  created: '2010-06-13 20:04:33'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Amen!
  created: '2010-06-13 22:12:05'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "Just out of curiosity; what about typefaces that are not the same, but have
    the same ancestors?\r\n\r\nLike: \r\n- Sabon (Body) and Garamond Premiere Pro
    (Display/Headline)\r\n- Baskerville (Body) and Mrs. Eaves (Display/Headline)\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-24 15:43:39'
date: '2007-03-06 03:53:01'
node_type: forum
title: 'typeface tango: how to decide who can/should dance with whom'

---
