---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: "I saw this font at ArcheType recently, and last night took a photo of it:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Funky_4615.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
  really like the \"bravado\" - to me this is a more charming Cooper Black. I'd like
  to find out what it's called and who made it (the pinmark was no help: it's just
  a thin straight vertical line in a circle) but most of all I just wanted to share
  it. The label on the drawer says \"Old Style Grotesque\", which is of course completely
  uniformative and probably incorrect.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: It's beautiful in an odd sort of way.
  created: '2007-03-09 18:37:05'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: ymmy!
  created: '2007-03-09 18:41:13'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: love the r
  created: '2007-03-09 18:45:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "My favorite is the \"k\". And the kidney-bean dots on the ?/! of course!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-09 19:09:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "This looks like it is borrowed from Cyrillic types with the flaming tongue
    E and ball terminal r.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-09 19:53:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: I don't get it. If it is printers type shouldn't it all be a mirror image
    of what it is? Only the E might be a mirror image, but it is upside down compared
    to the AE. Was this from a sign?
  created: '2007-03-09 20:14:34'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: I assume hrant flipped the image.
  created: '2007-03-09 20:17:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chris, you just reminded me of something I drew\r\nduring my Siberian splash-and-dash
    of 9/2004:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AKE_3939.gif]\r\nNow I just
    have a find a company with those initials...  :-)\r\n--\r\nYes, the photo has
    been h-flipped, for easier human processing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-09 20:21:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Cuttlefish ( Jason ) needs to see this. '
  created: '2007-03-09 21:17:31'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Oh, I do see it. I think I know what you mean, Eben. There are some elements
    here that have a relation to the <a href="http://typophile.com/node/28862">project
    I'm working on.</a> I wouldn't necessarily solve all its problems the way this
    font does, but this example does offer some great inspiration.
  created: '2007-03-09 22:45:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The link isn't working.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-09 22:48:28'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: It would have worked but for the lack of a ". The link is now fixed.
  created: '2007-03-09 22:51:02'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'I found a match in an old film font catalog: Midas. Hard to say if this was
    the name of the metal font.'
  created: '2007-03-09 23:11:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Solid gold! And imagine if the alchemists could turn that fat lead into it.
    \ ;-)\r\n\r\nAny more info? Who made it? Scan?\r\nNo pressure though - only if
    you\r\nhave the time and inclination.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-09 23:20:07'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Here's all there is:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/midas_5394.gif]\r\n\r\nIt
    was in the 1970 edition of the Lettergraphics catalog. The Lettergraphics library
    was kind of dodgy--many off-name fonts."
  created: '2007-03-09 23:47:03'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I looked in all my metal catalogs, too. No luck.
  created: '2007-03-09 23:52:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That's definitely it - thanks much.\r\nIt's funny how a font always looks
    better as metal sorts...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Gyles
      picture: 112057
    body: "<ul>It\u2019s funny how a font always looks better as metal sorts\u2026</ul>\r\n\r\nMaybe
      just because of the ink spreading when it hits paper, making the letter lose
      definition?"
    created: '2007-03-11 09:43:26'
  created: '2007-03-09 23:58:49'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Not only is it very vaguely similar in style to my font, it too is also named
    for a legendary Greek king? Will coincidences ever cease?
  created: '2007-03-10 00:05:40'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/samfont_3927.png]'
  created: '2007-03-10 00:38:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "David, is yours called Midas too, or something else?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-10 00:50:44'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Romany. \r\n\r\nsince this is art nouveau font, and kinda  'similar' to Pretorian
    -- I'll start my hunt with the type foundry P.M. Shanks & Sons*, London.  \r\n\r\n*and
    if there's a luck  -- the cut is by Edward Prince."
  created: '2007-03-10 01:36:54'
- author:
    name: George Thomas
  body: "The pin mark as described indicates the font may have been produced by the
    Bresnan Type Foundry of New York.\r\n\r\nBut, I too found a complete showing of
    the font under the name Romany, although considering the source (photolettering
    catalog) I don't know if that's the true name or not.\r\n\r\nIf it turns out that
    Romany is not correct, if someone has the time to do so they might check the Bresnan
    specimen books in the Butler Library collection. They have the only complete set
    (5 books, 1856-1896)."
  created: '2007-03-10 02:47:15'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Hrant\r\n\r\nAmerican Type Founders commonly used a pinmark of a circle with
    a \"horizontal\" line running through it. The ancient astronomical symbol for
    earth. I guess one could assume this typeface was originally an issue by one of
    the foundries ATF gobbled up with the consolidation. And then later dropped from
    the line, likely by the 1920s.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2007-03-10 05:05:41'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "This thing is friggin awesome.\r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro"
  created: '2007-03-10 05:09:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Pretorian\r\n\r\nAh yes, I see the resemblance.\r\nBut strangely the Romany
    on MyFonts is a 1930s light script face, by ATF.\r\n\r\nAnd let me see if I can
    double-check that pinmark.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-10 05:45:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Looking some more, the lc s is pretty sweet. r & h too. A is not to bad. C
    is on the fence. Most of the caps are sweet. I especially like the E & J. The
    lc glyphs with counters seem to be ones with the most problems. check out eb &
    p. Monsterous!
  created: '2007-03-10 06:45:48'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> But strangely the Romany on MyFonts is a 1930s light script face\r\n\r\nYes,
    the script by Bosco.\r\n\r\nBut based on other fonts  (around that time) --  Apolo,
    \ Cleopatra, Olympian, Petrarka, Pretorian -- maybe Romany is the original name.
    \r\n\r\nHowever, you can find different fonts with the same name (again, around
    that time): Venezia -- decorative/display font by Brendler & Sons (Vienna), and
    the text font --  George Jones/ Edward Prince (London) \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-10 19:13:59'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I have seen this typeface in use, and I also think I've seen it in one of
    the old ATF catalogues (1912 or 1923). No idea what it is offhand, however.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-03-10 21:10:43'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: I did a quick check of both the 1912 and 1923 catalogs and, if it's in an
    ATF catalog, it's an older edition than the 1912...
  created: '2007-03-10 22:41:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think I know what font Thomas is thinking of, which is not this one, except
    I don't know what it's called - something with a \"p\". I can tell you the \"g\"
    has a massive, vertical, curling ear.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-10 22:54:46'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "This looked vaguely familiar to me also. So I, too, did a quick check of
    my 1923 ATF and didn't find it. Neither was it in my Barnhart Brothers & Spindler,
    ca. 1925.\r\n\r\nBut . . . I did find it in my 1926 Stephenson, Blake & Co. specimen.
    It's titled <em>Lining Romany</em>. (Many of the SB fonts from this period are
    hyped as \"lining,\" meaning they are cast on the American Point Line system --
    still a fairly new concept over there at that time, I think.) \r\n\r\nIt's offered
    in 60, 36, 30, 24 18, 12, 10, and 8 point.\r\n\r\nI've noticed that there are
    several SB designs that seem to have come over from the States and acquired new
    names (for instance, Chippendale = Pencraft), but there are also a few that may
    have traveled the other direction (Munder Roman = Verona?). So, it's hard to say
    whether this particular design originated with Stephenson Blake or not, and whether
    there might be an American equivalent, or even a predecessor.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-10 23:06:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kent, you're alive!!  ;-)\r\n\r\nGreat, so it's Romany. It looks very American,
    doesn't it?\r\nSo maybe it did have another name on these shores.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-10 23:11:42'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: ' Olympian by Stephenson, Blake & Co. -- you can see similar features: [img:sites/default/files/old-images/olym_5470.png]'
  created: '2007-03-10 23:40:18'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Hrant\r\n\r\nI have the original Vernon Simpson type specimen catalogs. A
    goodly portion of his holdings were given over to Archetype. A full specimen is
    shown in the catalogs as Romany [foundry indicated as S&B]. He only had the 36-pt.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2007-03-11 02:01:43'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: 'Issue solved, no? '
  created: '2007-03-11 02:17:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I didn't realize I had an issue!  :->\r\nNonetheless all the effort and info
    is highly valued. Typophile is\r\na great rarity in its combination of competence
    and camaraderie.\r\n\r\n> I have the original Vernon Simpson type specimen catalogs.\r\n\r\nDoes
    Gloria know this?  :-)\r\n\r\n> goodly portion\r\n\r\nI thought it was the whole
    thing. Where did the rest end up?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-11 04:39:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Possibly, although high-quality offset printing still doesn't look as good;
    plus when you look at physical pieces of type there's paralax distortion. Also,
    I feel that letterpress (which btw can now be done with plates made from digital
    files) does have some subtle advantage, and actually I think it might be from
    the avoidance of extreme crispness! I have an idea of how to replicate that in
    offset, but it's sort of far-fetched. I also wonder whether at the tail end of
    photosetting (where presumably the blur had become tamed if not eradicated) this
    subtle softness was also present (except digital was already making photosetting
    practically obsolete).\r\n\r\nAnother reason metal sorts seem to look better might
    be that they don't form actual readable words, hence leave our imagination to
    embelish the abstract; sort of how a person generally looks more attractive from
    a distance!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-11 15:53:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I get the same feeling from old well-made machinery. There is something about
    metal cut and fitted exactly to a form that is at once sturdy yet not the least
    bit pretentious. The gears of an oldfashioned lathe with all the precision yet
    knowing it was crafted by human hands.\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-11 16:38:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'To me letter press printing looks blacker. Does more ink go on the paper
    than with offset, or is the ink blacker or am I just hallucinating? (Also a strong
    possibility :) '
  created: '2007-03-11 17:19:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The ink film in letterpress is physically thicker on the paper and impresses
    more into the paper fibers. Offset has a wash cleansing of extra residue from
    the plate and a second transfer from plate to blanket which further thins the
    ink that hits the paper. This allows for finer detail and less need for trapping
    but the thickness of ink is less. The effect is greater on noncoated paper which
    is more typical of books than slick mags. Web presses can get overly washed sometimes
    too so even coated stock impressions can be a bit anemic. As usual, a good pressman
    is required no matter what method is used.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-11 17:36:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "However in letterpress the degree of black tends to be proportional to the
    degree of letterform distortion - over-inking is the sad norm (not least because
    you can always add ink, but you can only reduce ink by starting over). Few printers
    are willing and able to produce a good black without making the type something
    the type designer never intended (ergo: worse, in general).\r\n\r\nBTW, it's tempting
    -and probably intuitive- to think that the blacker the\r\nbetter, but I think
    there's definitely such a thing as too much contrast.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-11 17:48:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "That's interesting Chris. So it seems I'm right about this. I was trying
    to agrue this with Gardner Lepoer at the Museum of Printing, but he wasn't buying.
    \r\n\r\nI'd like to hear more from press men (or women) with experience of both
    kinds of printing to corroborate your view, Chris. \r\n\r\nTo me, the deep velvety
    black of letter press is the main gorgeous thing about it, even more than the
    'sock' into the paper. The contrast of that flat almost shiny black against rougher,
    matte paper that disperses light, rather than reflecting also contributes to readability,
    I think.    "
  created: '2007-03-11 17:51:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't know that I would characterize it as \"my view.\" I was just making
    an observation on the differences between the two methods which might corroborate
    your view. In terms of \"blacker\", I could not say without some sort of densitometer
    reading. The effect of blacker on the page is often, as Hrant mentions above,
    due to overinking and the inkspread that it causes. Too much packing is another
    culprit. It forces deeper impression and even rounding of type. \r\nThe other
    issue is that often text faces that started in metal and later were made for photo
    or digital, didn't adjust for weight difference in inkspread when the transition
    was made and therefore seem lighter on the page.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-11 18:52:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the deep velvety black of letter press\r\n\r\nLike I said though usually
    this means it's over-inked. Can you point to many\r\nexamples of letterpress where
    <cite>both</cite> the density of the black and the integrity\r\nof letterforms
    are better than in offset?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-11 19:55:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I have a copy of the 1844 revival of Caslon, 'Lady Willoughby's Diary'. It
    was not only celebrated at the time, and led to the wider revival of Caslon, but
    also much later shown in exhibitions as an example of superb printing. It has
    more consistency and less distortion of the letters than in Caslon's own 1766
    sample book--no doubt because of superior inks and printing technology of time.
    Its text is in a beautiful black against the woven matt paper, which incidentally
    looks not aged at all over 150 years later. \r\n\r\nI am not a printer, but I
    have printed letter press and was taught about over inking, and I do not agree
    that a deep black indicates over-inking. I think it is a feature of good, properly
    inked letter press. But as I say, I want to learn more about the differences on
    between offset and letter press from knowledgeable printers. \r\n\r\nAs of now
    I find Chris's analysis plausible. "
  created: '2007-03-11 20:36:29'
- author:
    name: tupper
  body: A darker lithographic print should be possible with multiple hits. The effects
    of registration error and ink spread could be reduced by choking one of the plates.
    This sort of thing is done to boost weak colours; I don't see why it couldn't
    be applied to black. Of course, it would increase printing costs.
  created: '2007-03-11 20:39:01'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> hence leave our imagination to embelish the abstract; sort of how
    a person generally looks more attractive from a distance! </cite>\r\n\r\nI would
    go for this. And further, I think the act of imagining is enjoyable. And also
    what mystery still left is enjoyable & pleasant too as long as it seem promising.\r\n\r\nI
    have a theory about letterpress ink which is that it may have less ( because it
    needs less) lacquer or other shiny binders. A smooth paper has less 'tooth' and
    is less spongy. Offset tends to use a smoother paper. A paper like that would
    shed ink morer easily and need more binder + plus we expect more technical perfection/performance
    from offest which would make you use more binder maybe. Binders will tend to shine,
    so the less binder, laquer/glue/whatever; the blacker the ink can look. The more
    matte the black the darker it can look.  It could also be that the paper used
    in offset sucks more the binder deeper into the paper leaving a more matte result
    even when the same ink is used. What do you think? \r\n\r\nNice thread guys!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-11 21:07:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Todays high-speed presses also require quicker drying inks. The chemical
    makeup of the dryer could also have an affect.  I don't know which way though.
    You used to see gas dryers on older web presses even.  This was fun to watch if
    the web quickly jammed and the paper right over the dryers burst into flame. That
    was a fun press check as I recall from 20 years or so back.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-11 22:45:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> It has more consistency and less distortion of the letters than\r\n> in
    Caslon\u2019s own 1766 sample book\u2014no doubt because of superior\r\n> inks
    and printing technology of time.\r\n\r\nI'm curious, what about consistency of
    letterform? When you say it was a \"revival\", do you mean just of printing with
    Caslon, or of the fonts themselves? I ask because Caslon's forms exhibit a lot
    of inconsistency (which doesn't necessarily bother me within a font, but definitely
    bothers me across sizes - unless it's something like Neuland, where I feel it's
    actually a plus).\r\n\r\n> I do not agree that a deep black indicates over-inking.\r\n\r\nI
    didn't say it was unavoidable or inherent. But when you printed letterpress yourself,
    did you manage to get that great black while maintaining letterform integrity?
    Unlikely, and not necessarily because you were -I'm presuming- just dabbling:
    it's very hard; even qualified people who want to do it (which is sadly rare)
    have trouble.\r\n\r\nMy point wasn't that it's not possible, it was that it's
    very rare. On average, in practice on the ground, offset tends to arrive at a
    better balance of blackness and letterform integrity; it's simply a lot harder
    to mess it up.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of which, you must have seen some offset printed
    with \"rich black\" (black that's made with some C, M and Y, not just K) on thick
    coated paper: it's pure lustre. Which is not to say I admire it.\r\n\r\n> ...
    as long as it seem promising.\r\n\r\nWith the elaboration that I guess it depends
    on whether you're a positivist or a cynic. When the crow gets the grapes instead
    of you, do you think \"damn it\", or do you think \"they were probably sour anyway\"?
    :-)  You guys should hear all the variants on that \xC6sop fable that my brother
    and I once came up with!\r\n\r\n> we expect more technical perfection/performance
    from offest\r\n\r\nYes, and I think this extends beyond tangible things like binder;
    we expect letterpress to be imperfect in some ways, so we ignore that, or even
    turn it into something commendable.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-12 16:50:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I've specifieded jobs printed rich black but not ordinary text. It was always
    large solids, usually reverses and, most typically. where a photo was knocking
    out of solid black and the one-color black looked dead next to the 4-color build.
    Large solids sometimes were given a double-hit when you wanted real density. It
    is hard to give large solids enough ink on highspeed presses--mostly if there
    is a lot of it. The ink gets eaten up before it has a chance to replenish. Often,
    jobs with big solids were reimposed so that the big solid was at the back of the
    sheet, distributed throughout, or flipped to avoid all the ink on one half getting
    sucked up. Computerized presses today have a much easier time of it though since
    they have more exacting control.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-12 17:33:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "On the 1844 Caslon, it was I believe the first time any typeface had been
    revived, and that before that old matrices and punches were either lost or stored,
    but not reused after they went out of popularity. \r\n\r\nI'm not sure whether
    any new punches were cut for the 1844 revival, but I'm pretty sure almost all
    of it is old--either old type or cast from the original matrices. \r\n\r\nOn consistency
    of letter form, are you just asking about this across sizes?\r\n\r\nAcross sizes,
    there is a lot of variation, but much of it is very intelligently done, and for
    good reasons. He didn't vary with optical size in the way that Adobe does today,
    but that doesn't mean his way was necessarily worse. Also the way they did lay-out
    was different, so the comparison is not so easy. \r\n\r\nI am convinced that because
    Caslon turned out so much type, he was always in a rush to get stuff out the door,
    and that explains some of the seemingly haphazard variation. But in my revival
    often when I have scoffed at something he did, and tried doing something different,
    it has come around to bite me later, when I get into trouble and see that the
    better solution is to do it his way. \r\n\r\nAnother part of the variation in
    Caslon may well come from his using as a starting model for his fonts Dutch types
    from different hands. But to find all this out would be a long research in itself,
    which I haven't done.  \r\n\r\nOn my own printing, I did this as a teen and it
    was definitely amateurish, so that is not my basis for comparison. One of the
    first things I was told, though, is that over-inking is more of a problem than
    under-inking. \r\n\r\nA bit part of the problem with digital type revivals, IMHO,
    has been copying the metal of the classics rather including the ink spread so
    as to be suitable for offset. However, I am thinking there is an issue also with
    ink. But this is just a hypothesis to be confirmed or not by those who actually
    can give an expert opinion. If there is a problem, then it would raise the interesting
    question of how offset could be improved--by new inks, processes or, eg. tupper's
    suggestion above. "
  created: '2007-03-12 17:48:11'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Hrant\r\n\r\nGenerally across the board yeah, perhaps contemporary letterpress
    doesn't make the grade, but then, so doesn't the majority of offset work.\r\n\r\nExamples
    of exemplar?\r\n\r\nI'd think that high-end commercial letterpress prior to the
    Great Depression years was about as clean and crisp and black as it could get
    without the need for noticeable impression. A readily example would be the 1923
    ATF specimen book and other type specimen books of the period. Those machines,
    processes, techniques, and men are, alas, long gone. \r\n\r\nStill you might find
    it hard to make your case in examining the work of post-war fine press printers
    such as Victor Hammer or Lewis Allen, et al (and even some contemporary fine printers),
    where controlled impression on dampened handmade paper results in letterforms
    that are crisp and darkest black and without ink spread. And a breath-taking marvel
    to behold.\r\n\r\nThe deep black of letterpress isn't dependent upon the film
    thickness, but rather the ink coloration, the technique of application, and the
    materials of production. And, of course, the rationale of the pressperson. In
    this regard, it's good enough, isn't.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2007-03-13 02:39:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">The deep black of letterpress isn\u2019t dependent upon the film thickness,
    but rather the ink coloration, the technique of application, and the materials
    of production.\r\n\r\nGerald, thanks for addressing this. For starters, is the
    ink used for letter press different from ink used in offset? \r\n\r\nI have a
    lot of other questions: Can you describe more what gets a good deep black in letter
    press? Do you think you can get the same look from offset, or that offset is inherently
    limited? How?\r\n\r\nI just turned up an old 50x magnifier I had been missing.
    I looked at the 1844 'Lady Willoughby' Caslon printing. Two things suprised me.
    First, inspite of the velvety black to the naked eye, at 50x there is a lot of
    white fiber showing through in the black area--I guess it wasn't over inked! Second,
    I can see a clearly defined fine white line where the edge of the metal type hit,
    and the ink spread beyond it. Cool!"
  created: '2007-03-13 03:31:14'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "William\r\n\r\nNot to be contrary, but I think to compare letterpress and
    offset is sort of like comparing apples to oranges. Yes, the inks are different,
    as are the processes. On the other hand, there are no old formula letterpress
    inks still available. Most letterpress folks today do use offset inks. I use stone
    lithographic (printmaking) inks in printing my letterpress work, though they too
    would be quite different than commercial offset inks.\r\n\r\nThat said.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure I can adequately explain in words how one gets the deep black in letterpress
    (without accompanying ink spread). At least I'm not up for it tonight. It's a
    combination of a number of material factors combined with a theoretical approach
    to printing. Bit pretentious I suppose, but I think accurate.\r\n\r\nBut what
    you are seeing through the loop is inadequate film lay on the letterform. The
    fibers of the paper are showing through. Not uncommon.\r\n\r\nThe white line is
    due to the wrong tack/flow of the ink or incorrect roller pressure or wrong printing
    height (this isn't necessarily an impression problem though it could be as well).
    Or a combination of one or the other or all three. The ink film is being pushed
    or squeezed off the letterform. You are seeing separation of pigment and carrier.
    Not so cool actually. To correct this, one would have to start all over. Not always
    an option to the commercial printer.\r\n\r\nGerald\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-13 04:14:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">inadequate film lay \r\n\r\nGerald, have you ever looked at type under 50x
    magnification? \r\n\r\nChecking on line, a magnifying glass is 2x to 4x. A jeweler's
    loupe is usually 10x. A low setting on a  microscope is 40x. The 50x magnifier
    I looked through is on a microsopic level, more powerful than a magnifying glass
    or jeweler's loupe."
  created: '2007-03-13 04:33:01'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Hello again. I don't mean to threadjack the lovely letterpress discussion,
    but here is a sample of the font I'm working on that Eben thought I could relate
    to this one here, or something like that.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Agamemnon16-sample2small_3499.png]\r\nIt's
    called Agamemnon and there is lengthy coverage of its development in the Critique:Serif
    forum. Please feel free to stop in over there and share your thoughts."
  created: '2007-03-13 07:03:40'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "William\r\n\r\nNot certain of the intent of the question, and I assume 50x
    would reveal mites on a mite, but I can truthfully say I have never looked at
    type at 50x. But I also don't use a loop, don't need too. I have very bad eyesight.
    I don't have focus much beyond the eyeball. So, basically, I have microscopic
    vision (without my trifocals\u2014which I really like a lot). I suppose in ancient
    times I would have been consigned to carving minutia, if so lucky. And, likely,
    I would have been very happy doing it.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2007-03-13 08:08:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Not certain of the intent of the question\r\n\r\nI wanted to ascertain whether
    you might have mistakenly thought these effects would be evident to the naked
    eye, and hence your comments on 'inadequate film lay on the form' and 'incorrect
    pressure' might not be correct. \r\n\r\nI do think that the 'Lady Willoughby's
    Diary', which as I said was held up as an example of good printing, is in fact
    well done. Because of the beautiful black in this book, I don't think it is under-inked.
    \r\n\r\nWith my rediscovered toy, I have now also looked at my 1924 specimen book
    from the Caslon foundry, printed by George W. Jones, and my 1928 Caslon specimen
    book from Linotype, and some offset printing. \r\n\r\nI suspect from its look
    and its date and the fact that Jones was reknowned as an excellent printer that
    you would regard this specimen as a fine printing job. Again, you can see some
    whiter fibers in the inked area, though less so than in the Lady Willoughby book.
    Another interesting  difference that I see, though, is that in the Lady Willoughby
    the print seems to have flattened the fibers of the paper more, without 'embossing'
    the page. This flatness I think partly accounts for the beautiful black to the
    naked eye. (Both are printed on laid paper, with the ribs being more prominent
    in the unprinted part of the Lady Willoughby paper as compared to the Jones booklet.)\r\n\r\nBecause
    in the front note they refer to the \"style of printing\" being suited to the
    antique setting, I am guessing that the paper might have been dampened before
    printing, old style. This might also account for the clearly etched white line
    indicating the outline of the metal face. By the way, my 'cool' comment is about
    being able to clearly see Caslon's original outlines in this book, under the 50x
    magnification.  \r\n\r\nSomeone here has also pointed out the relatively white
    line appearing in an 'averaging' process done on Aldus's pages. And I know that
    Carol Twombly for her Caslon revival also used the white line, seen under magnification,
    to try to identify Caslon's original metal outlines--which she didn't follow however.
    \r\n\r\nIn the 1928 specimen book there is printing on both coated and \"antique\"
    paper. The 'antique' paper printing looks similar to the Jones specimen book,
    but the coated paper is an interesting contrast. There is much more paper show-through
    where the metal struck, and a surrounding blacker line where ink-spead took place.
    (This is not evident to the naked eye.) In general the 20's printing looks like
    it 'soaked' around the fibers of the rough paper more, but is not as flat as the
    Lady Willoughby.  \r\n\r\nI have also just looked at some modern offset type on
    woven, matte paper. It is strikingly different. Under this low power microscope,
    it looks a bit like granite, with grey and black flecks throughout. \r\n\r\nIt
    is certainly greyer than the old letter press examples. So whatever the cause,
    I was not hallucinating about letter press being blacker. \r\n\r\nI don't know
    whether the 'granite' effect of offset is because of a lighter 'kiss' of the paper
    or thinner inks, but the granite effect, and hence greyer look is definitely there.
    \r\n\r\nI should say that it is a little tricky using this little magnifier, and
    some of what I see as white may be reflections of light instead of white fibers.
    But I think what I just reported is basically accurate. \r\n\r\nFinally, the processes
    of letter press and offset are, as you say, clearly different. But the *result*
    is in both cases is ink on paper, in little letters, and so the comparison under
    magnification I think tells us something interesting about the causes of difference
    in appearance. "
  created: '2007-03-13 13:33:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You can never underestimate the skill of the craftsman doing the work. The
    good ones took such pride in printing superb pages. I don't know that we will
    ever see that kind of work again. \r\nPapers do differ, even when they generally
    look the same. This can account for the differences. When you noticed \"flattened
    the fibers\" this could be either due to dampening the paper or just the nature
    of the paper. Dampened paper (IMHO) is less likely to spring back and tiny fibers
    are more likely to be firmly emulsified in the ink. It would take an expert examining
    your samples to tell what was going on so don't take what I say as anything but
    speculation.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-13 14:11:54'
- author:
    name: sch2525
    picture: 112170
  body: "This is off topic, but I just wanted to thank Jason \"Cuttlefish\" for his
    typographic version of Badger Badger Badger \r\n\r\nhttp://www.badgerbadgerbadger.com/\r\n\r\nBrilliant"
  created: '2007-03-13 15:11:18'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Thank you for the compliment, Scott Hultman. I wish I could take credit for
    that little animation, but it is something I found online and I can't recall exactly
    where I got it or who made it originally (and of course, it is derivative of Badger
    Badger Badger anyway).
  created: '2007-03-13 18:36:02'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: Jason, I really like where you're going with Agamemnon. Midas is lovely. I
    know I've seen it or something very similar.
  created: '2007-03-13 19:30:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Not enough time to address things since my last post, but a quick update
    on something: the pinmark I described must have been from another font I'd looked
    at; this font's actually says \"SB\": Stephenson & Blake. So maybe there was no
    US version of this design; on the other hand, it still looks very American to
    me...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-19 18:15:28'
date: '2007-03-09 17:51:20'
node_type: forum
title: (x) Cooper Looser - Midas {Mark S}

---
