---
author:
  name: Jem
  picture: 110289
body: "A question.\r\nIs Avenir an appropriate typeface for wayshowing signage?\r\n\r\nMy
  feeling is due to its open and organic letter shapes, long ascenders and descenders,
  a more contained and regular typeface would be better suited. If I could recommend
  a font for signage, it would be the likes of Univers, Frutiger, Meta, even Argo.\r\n\r\nAm
  I wrong?\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image:AvenirSP.png\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: I think that Avenir could be used well, but it's not ideal. The best typefaces
    for this purpose have big apertures, low contrast, and easily distinguishable
    letterforms. Frutiger and Meta, as you mentioned, would work well, but Univers
    is not ideal, owing to its tighter letterforms. This is the thinking behind <a
    href=http://www.clearviewhwy.com/>the new Clearview Highway typeface</a>.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Jem
      picture: 110289
    body: "Thank you Auricfuzz.\r\n\r\nWhen you say 'big apertures' do you mean more
      open, less enclosed.\r\nOr just a larger negative space?"
    created: '2007-03-12 19:34:44'
  created: '2007-03-12 19:19:36'
- author:
    name: peterbruhn
    picture: 110509
  body: I would recommend <a href="http://www.vllg.com/TypeInitiative/Arrival/Example+About/">
    Arrival</a>
  created: '2007-03-12 19:31:04'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "For me, aperture means the opening between the counter and the outside of
    the letter, such as the 'a', 'e', 'c', 's'. Unless there's a better word for that.
    This crucial piece never seems to be on any of the typeface anatomy diagrams.\r\n\r\nNotice
    how Arrival is generally more open thanks to this wide aperture, especially in
    the 'e' and 's'.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/get_Font_Image_3921.png]\r\nAvenir\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/41f1ba8923341fed09cf23bb375245b0_3760.png]\r\nArrival\r\n\r\nBesides
    those you mentioned, another good example is <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=verity.search&searchstr=Versa
    Sans\">Versa Sans</a>:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/get_Font_Image-1_3537.png]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Jem
      picture: 110289
    body: "More questions.\r\n\r\nSo an open aperture (counter) increases legibility
      by reducing stroke convergence?\r\nI can understand this being an important
      consideration for illuminated signs, but is it still a factor for standard signage?
      \r\n\r\nDoes stroke convergence cause the individual letters to be less distinguishable
      at a glance, or from a distance?"
    created: '2007-03-12 23:52:20'
  created: '2007-03-12 19:55:00'
- author:
    name: new2me
  body: Very informative--thank you!
  created: '2007-03-12 20:09:01'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'Also made especially for signage: [[FF Info]] and [[FF Transit]]'
  created: '2007-03-12 20:09:14'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Don't forget <a href="http://www.terminaldesign.com/fonts/set/?ID=88">ClearviewADA</a>
    which was designed to conform with the typeface guidelines specified in the Americans
    with Disabilities Act legislation.
  created: '2007-03-12 20:31:15'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "Yes very informative, thank you all.\r\n\r\nAnother typeface mentioned earlier,
    Gerard Ungers's Argo. Not specifically designed for wayshowing, though I think
    would work well when a slightly more expressive font is desired.\r\n(eg. Shopping
    centre signage vs. Road signs - which ideally should be more neutral) \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Argo_5562.gif]"
  created: '2007-03-12 20:41:37'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: <a href="http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/bitstream/tiresias/">Tiresias</a> was
    developed especially for persons with visual impairments (although not totally
    blind).
  created: '2007-03-12 21:27:46'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "Interestingly Mr Unger states on his website that Argo:\r\n\"is pronounced
    and contrasty. As a result, it is not used for applications like wayfinding (where
    neutrality is apparently a virtue), being seen instead mainly in house styles,
    periodicals and newspapers.\"\r\n\r\nThough I do think he is being slightly sarcastic,
    as his Capitolium is certainly not 'neutral'\r\nhttp://www.gerardunger.com/allmytypedesigns/allmytypedesigns16.html\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-13 17:04:56'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "A small aperture (as in Helvetica) can cause e's and c's to look like o's.
    Generally, it's more familiar and thus easier to read type with a wide aperture.
    It all goes toward making each letterform as easily distinguishable from a distance
    as possible, although ultimately most type should be okay enough for typical signage.\r\n\r\nEDIT:
    Carl, you're right; it's not typical of me to surrender so easily when it comes
    to type. I was just trying to assure Jem that most of the typefaces mentioned
    in this thread should work well; there's no single incredibly legible type."
  created: '2007-03-13 17:13:13'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"most type should be okay enough for typical signage.\"\r\n\r\nI'm doing
    a signage system in Swank for an airport!   ;)\r\n\r\nI think Unger is probably
    pointing out how conservative most people are in choosing these things. It has
    to look like other airports, it has to not be too interesting, it has to be \"neutral\"
    etc. The typical committee attitude. In spite of this, I think one of the best
    (meaning clearest, most differentiated, strongest) suggestions so far is Versa
    Sans. But try to find anyone in the US who would dare use such a wild and unruly
    face for wayfinding. That's crazy talk!  ;)\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://screenfont.ca/fonts/today/Tiresias/\">Here's
    more about Tiresias.</a>"
  created: '2007-03-13 17:57:30'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: IIRC Gerard Unger stated in a lecture, in regards to Capitolium, that it can
    work as a wayfinding font in Rome because it was to be used, largely, in the tourist
    areas where all you can do is walk, or at best, ride your Vespa slowly. (Wish
    I could find my notes.)
  created: '2007-03-13 18:06:02'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Here\u2019s more about Tiresias.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, I've seen this before,
    Carl: what concerns me is that it doesn't seem to do anything other than scream
    a lot without much substantive comment.  In fact, I used one of the versions to
    test my subjects wrt to signage (as opposed to just screen fonts), and the overwhelming
    majority thought it was a great improvement: they don't cite my work as being
    pro-Tiresias.  \r\n\r\nI notice they didn't bother looking very far for citations
    to support their own position either: that lack of academic rigour on both fronts
    doesn't encourage them to be taken seriously from either side.\r\n\r\nGranted,
    the existing signage I used was acknowledged as not being sufficient, and the
    client was looking for something \"better\" -- they ended up using a mix of Minion
    and Myriad, which was an improvement, mainly because they didn't want to spend
    *any* money on something new.\r\n\r\n(And gee, that rant reminds me far too much
    of <a href=\"http://www.designobserver.com\"><em>Design Observer</em></a> lately....)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-13 18:21:45'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<em>Edit: repeating Linda\u2019s comment</em>\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-03-13 18:23:51'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Tiresias was designed by a vision researcher, not by a type designer. No
    type designers were involved in declaring it the perfect font to \"improve legibility
    for all\". For starters, the way captioning is done requires more than one style;
    Tiresias doesn't even have an Italic. Here's my favorite quote from John Gill:
    \r\n\r\n \u201CWithin the time available, thorough testing to determine the optimal
    design of the typeface was not possible. However[,] limited testing was done with
    patients in a low-vision clinic to identify the features of a typeface which they
    found helpful.\u201D\r\n\r\nAccessibility issues are different for people with
    low or impaired vision (John Gill's main concern), and for people with normal
    or average vision who are deaf, and who require captioning to access media content.
    Those issues were ignored in the Tiresias research, such as it was. And we're
    talking about type for wayfinding, which is yet a different challenge. Tiresias
    has a few merits for those with low vision, but it's far from ideal for general
    wayfinding. "
  created: '2007-03-13 18:53:14'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Accessibility issues are different for people with low or impaired vision
    (John Gill\u2019s main concern), and for people with normal or average vision
    who are deaf, and who require captioning to access media content. Those issues
    were ignored in the Tiresias research, such as it was. And we\u2019re talking
    about type for wayfinding, which is yet a different challenge. </em>\r\n\r\nWhile
    Dr. Gill and his team may not have done that work, others have -- I'm one of them
    -- and I know for a fact that my work has been referenced by others.  \r\n\r\nAt
    the risk of pointing out the obvious, why is our subsequent work being ignored
    here?  And why is there no supporting evidence -- that's real facts in peer-reviewed
    academic literature, not specious, unsupported, and blanket statements like \"it
    wasn't done by a type designer\" -- being presented?\r\n\r\nJust curious...."
  created: '2007-03-13 20:23:40'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: Where can we read about your subsequent work, Linda? I'm fixating on Tiresias
    because you brought it up. It's not specious or uninformed to say John Gill isn't
    a type designer; he isn't.
  created: '2007-03-13 21:56:36'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Carl, all I'm asking for is some concrete, academic proof about the flaws
    of Tiresias -- is this the only defence you can offer?  Put something up or move
    on....\r\n\r\n(And if you've got access to all the wonderful academic databases,
    you can look up articles that cite my thesis yourself.)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-13 22:37:11'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "For what it's worth\u2026 I think that wayfinding type choices are way too
    conservative. Any font with enough contrast should do the trick, IF it's applied
    with finesse. \r\n\r\nEg imagine my wonder when I met FF Scala Sans as main font
    for the signage along Chicago's waterfront. It was just wonderful, because the
    design was done really well.\r\n\r\nBTW: I had a look at Tiresias and I think
    it's main feature is blandness \u2014 as if it has been designed by a committee."
  created: '2007-03-13 23:59:01'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: ">\"For what it\u2019s worth\u2026 I think that wayfinding type choices are
    way too conservative. Any font with enough contrast should do the trick, IF it\u2019s
    applied with finesse.\"\r\n\r\nWhy choose any old font, when you can choose one
    that best serves it's function?"
  created: '2007-03-14 00:27:44'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">Tiresias was designed by a vision researcher, not by a type designer. \r\nEven
    Joe Clark allows that it was designed by a <em>team</em> led by Dr Gill\r\nhttp://www.laker-sharville.com/lettering.html\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-03-14 08:21:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">choose one that best serves it\u2019s function?\r\n\r\nThat's an excellent
    idea. However, roads, captioning on TV screens, and signage in buildings seem
    to me significantly different. \r\n\r\nClearview is so far as I know the only
    font demonstrated to be superior to existing US signage. As I remember you can
    read it 2 seconds sooner at 60 mph, compared to the existing standard. \r\n\r\nWayfinding
    within a building would seem to me to have much more latitude as far as the issue
    of legibility. There I would think aesthetics become much more important--enhancing
    the mood and spirit of the organization or purpose of the building. Outdoor signage
    for pedestrians would seem to me to be somewhere in between..."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Jem
      picture: 110289
    body: ">choose one that best serves it\u2019s function?\r\n>That\u2019s an excellent
      idea. However, roads, captioning on TV screens, and signage in buildings seem
      to me significantly different.\r\n\r\nTotally agree, that is what I was inferring.
      Every sign has its own set of functional requirements, the first being; to be
      seen, read and undersood."
    created: '2007-03-14 16:35:10'
  created: '2007-03-14 14:07:32'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Agreed William, and sorry to Jem for the derailment, what is the use for
    the wayfinding system or is it a general query? Another thought\r\nhttp://www.stormtype.com/typefaces-fonts-shop/families-15-etelka\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-03-14 14:35:51'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Wayfinding within a building would seem to me to have much more latitude
    as far as the issue of legibility. There I would think aesthetics become much
    more important\u2014enhancing the mood and spirit of the organization or purpose
    of the building. </em>\r\n\r\nWell, in the sense that it doesn't have to be read
    and comprehended while consistently travelling at high speed, you're correct.
    \ That being said, architects and designers (type and interior) also need to take
    into account emergency situations, where it's absolutely necessary that the right
    information be communicated to all the people as quickly as possible. In these
    crazy days of litigation, that's becoming very much a front-of-mind issue.  \r\n\r\n(And
    I doubt that anyone needs to be told that \"design\" is suffering in the process.)\r\n\r\nIt's
    a very fine line to walk -- what might be an acceptable sign in a well-lit area
    with few people is likely utterly useless when there's a power outage and a panicked
    crowd. "
  created: '2007-03-14 14:57:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Perhaps implementation of signage is the most overlooked aspect. Typeface
    is talked about and reviewed because it is involved in the whole process. It is
    rare that much real anylitical thought goes into the wording and placement of
    individual signs. An example is the Washington Metro developed in the mid 70s.
    Yes, the type is your basic Helvetica vinyls sign letters but that is another
    story. The sadder part is the number of handwritten signs placed by local Metro
    staff or frustrated passengers in order to rectify the poor implementation of
    the designed signage. Things magic markered on paper that say \"This way to Virginia\"
    \ or \"Airport this way\" indicate that after 30 years, the signage still does
    not do the job.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-14 15:22:27'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I've seen way worse signage than in Metro though, Chris, OTOH just finding
    one's way anywhere in DC is a huge challenge at best.  Heck, for the first four
    years I lived there, I went nowhere without my ADC pocket atlas of inside the
    beltway, and heaven help me if I was going elsewhere.\r\n\r\nOne would think,
    for all the tourist traffic that The Mall gets, that wayfinding would be a snap,
    but it's anything but."
  created: '2007-03-14 15:33:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The panhandlers make a fortune on the Mall \"giving\" tourists directions
    and maps which they stole from the Smithsonian free box.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-14 15:38:54'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>every sign has its own set of functional requirements.</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    there is an awful lot of overlap.  ;-)  Signage for public building A will have
    pretty similar requirements for public building B, no matter their size, location,
    or function (i.e., large bank in a major urban area vs. country grocery store
    vs. isolated nature retreat).\r\n\r\nIt's the implementation that differs...."
  created: '2007-03-14 16:40:55'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "Not the most legible typeface from a distance, though still an interesting
    mix of branding requirements and wayshowing requirements.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/250px-Mickey_ears_on_sign_6528.jpg]"
  created: '2007-03-14 17:15:03'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "The blue and white is one of the better combinations that you can use, however,
    and that contributes a lot to the visibility.  Compare that with \"Next Left,\"
    for example.\r\n\r\nWhich is why blanket statements like \"Font A is better than
    Font B for signage/wayfinding\" are pretty useless -- when you mix in size, colour
    combinations, lighting, and a swack of other factors, lots of fonts can fill the
    bill."
  created: '2007-03-14 17:21:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Imagine that orange on red at night! It is bad enough during daylight.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-14 17:36:55'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: A common mistake made by wayfinding designers is to evaluate their typographic
    decisions solely on their computer screen or maybe in a letter or tab sized printout.
    Rarely do they make full scale mock-ups and evaluate them in situ. This leads
    to many wayfinding legends that are too tightly letterspaced for their intended
    purpose.
  created: '2007-03-14 17:40:42'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Absolutely.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, a common mistake made by designers is that
    anyone who does a sign thinks they are an \"expert\" at wayfinding -- the overwhelming
    amount of bad signage and wayfinding choices is ample proof that it's both a science
    and an art."
  created: '2007-03-14 17:45:35'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "Yes, but my original post was about type choice.\r\n\r\nColors aside, the
    font shown on the Disney sign (anyone?) is not as legible from a distance as a
    font with open apertures.  Sure the most legible font in the world is not going
    to be readable if there is not enough contrast between the letters and the background,
    or if the size is too small, that is a given."
  created: '2007-03-14 17:48:36'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "> Unfortunately, a common mistake made by designers is that anyone who does
    a sign thinks they are an \u201Cexpert\u201D at wayfinding \u2014 the overwhelming
    amount of bad signage and wayfinding choices is ample proof that it\u2019s both
    a science and an art.\r\n\r\nThere are many excellent signage systems (by designers)
    as well:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/charles_de_gaulle_d15573i55_4371.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/BVG_leitsystem_r_3890.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/keio1_4919.jpg]"
  created: '2007-03-14 18:03:03'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>There are many excellent signage systems (by designers) as well</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    are, in fact, very few, and the fact that you've posted the three best is evidence
    of that.  "
  created: '2007-03-14 18:23:21'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Disney \u2013 Univers(?) or do they have a similar corporate sans?\r\n\r\nSurely
    the leading (set solid?) is way too tight to be effective, especially compared
    with the word space, but the arrow is totally useless up in the ear and why bother
    with a stem that fine.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-03-14 18:35:11'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "No Linda, the reason I have only posted three is they are examples only,\r\nI
    don't really have the time to try and convice you otherwise.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-14 18:45:42'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Jem, wanting to concentrate about type (especially here) is admirable, but
    to emphasize it beyond other elements isn't really useful if you want to discuss
    \"wayfinding\" as a broader concept, simply because there is no one best solution.\r\n\r\nEvery
    font that keeps getting pushed out as being the \"be-all and end-all\" for signage
    has its faults -- blandness is certainly one, but when you consider all the requirements
    that need to be met, it's not hard to simply devolve to the lowest common denominator.\r\n\r\n<em>Sure
    the most legible font in the world is not going to be readable if there is not
    enough contrast between the letters and the background, or if the size is too
    small, that is a given.</em>\r\n\r\nYou personally might think that colour and
    size considerations are a given, but expecting every other designer (or client!)
    to know, implement, or approve those ideas is awfully unrealistic.  Unfortunately,
    stupidity and ignorance aren't crimes....  :-("
  created: '2007-03-14 18:50:24'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t really have the time to try and convice you otherwise.</em>\r\n\r\nProbably
    because you couldn't anyway.  ;-)\r\n\r\nSome, maybe even many -- I wouldn't go
    as far as \"most\" -- designers can make great standalone signage.  \r\n\r\nA
    handful of designers, or architects, or planners, are capable, on their own, to
    do great wayfinding systems: it takes a broad-based multidisciplinary approach
    to do it well, a \"checking of egos at the door,\" and a client (individual or
    company) to have the intelligence, time, and money to want to do what is best
    for the end-users."
  created: '2007-03-14 19:08:08'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "> Jem, wanting to concentrate about type (especially here) is admirable,
    but to emphasize it beyond other elements isn\u2019t really useful if you want
    to discuss \u201Cwayfinding\u201D as a broader concept, simply because there is
    no one best solution.\r\n\r\nLinda I didn't emphasize typography above other signage
    elements, that is your assumption.\r\n\r\nAs I mentioned my original post was
    about typeface legibity for signage. Linda this is Typophile.com\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-14 19:13:39'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "> Probably because you couldn\u2019t anyway. ;-)\r\n\r\nLinda, to get you
    started ;-) \r\n\r\nPer Mollerup\r\nGerard Unger: Type design for Dutch road signs
    (1997) ANWB + Capitolium\r\nMetadesign/Erik Spiekermann: BVG\r\nFrutiger: Charles
    de gaulle\r\nGottschalk +Ash: Calgary International Airport\r\nRoger Pfund: International
    Red Cross and Red Crescent Museum\r\nCato design: Sydney International airport
    \r\nWolf Olins: Tate / Lisbon Metro / Heathrow Express\r\nBeat Keusch\r\nKen Miki
    & Associates\r\nPentagram\r\nIntegral Ruedi-Baur\r\nJosef Muller Brockmann\r\nOtl
    Aicher\r\nStockholm design lab\r\nGary Emery Studio\r\nVignelli Associates\r\netc.\r\n\r\nAnyone
    else care to add?\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-14 19:49:21'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Sigh... I also have spent a great deal of time on this subject. I started
    chatting on Typophile when I was working on my thesis a couple of years ago. Linda
    and I have in common working on wayfinding for a Master's thesis. (Mine was on
    New York City's signage system.)\r\n\r\nAnyway. What Linda speaks of is true...there
    are too many people, designers included\u2014 who think there is one end-all-be-all
    solution for signage. I can't tell you how many fights I've gotten into about
    Helvetica for signage (some here and on Typographica).\r\n\r\nI also think that
    Frutiger, Arrival and Clearview are among the best designed for the genre and
    Clearview as far as I know (as Bill mentioned) is the only one that has been backed
    up with field testing...(though Keith Tam and Gerry Leonidas might be able to
    prove me wrong.) :)\r\n\r\nThe other point thing is, some of us here have done
    a LOT of research on the subject (Linda, James and to a lesser extent myself)
    so opinions and viewpoints will differ greatly. Bottom line, what we as designers
    <em>think</em> looks good has nothing to do with what testing and research can
    ultimately reveal."
  created: '2007-03-14 20:01:11'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Anyone else care to add?</em>\r\n\r\nWhere do I begin? Most of the samples
    you cited LOOK nice. But if we're talking about true field testing for legibility
    and wayfinding\u2014 they don't all stand up to the test."
  created: '2007-03-14 20:03:13'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Which test? '
  created: '2007-03-14 20:08:48'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "Adrian Frutiger\r\nJosef Muller Brockmann\r\nErik Spiekermann\r\nPer Mollerup\r\nGerard
    Unger\r\n...Biddy?\r\n\r\na little respect please."
  created: '2007-03-14 20:14:42'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Like Terry said, your first list members look nice but they mostly don't
    stand up to any kind of POE* test.  Your second list gets closer to the sort of
    people I was referring to as the \"handful.\"\r\n\r\n*POE = Post-occupancy evaluation\r\n\r\n<em>Which
    test?</em>\r\n\r\nIn POE, there's not just one-size-fits-all test you pull off
    a shelf.  To develop a test, a set of variables is defined as being specific for
    the venue to be examined, a range of objective values is determined for each variable,
    a statistical weighting is assigned for each variable to ensure that variables
    are ranked and prioritized, a sample of people is selected to subjectively evaluate
    the subject area, and then you crunch a lot of math.\r\n\r\nSomeone who knows
    what they are doing can construct and develop a test that will result in a statistically
    acceptable variance when all is said and done, assuming there is a fairly homogeneous
    sample to perform the evaluation to start with.  \r\n\r\nBut things can get much
    more \"interesting\" (i..e., complex) when the inquiry starts to cover multiple
    venues, diverse evaluating sample (wide range of ages and abilities, in particular),
    or a poorly selected set of variables and inappropriate weighting to start with.\r\n\r\nAs
    I said above, very few designers, architects, and planners have this sort of expertise,
    and feel that they \"know best\" when it comes to wayfinding.\r\n\r\nWith rare
    exception, they don't."
  created: '2007-03-14 21:21:25'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Gerard Unger's work with n|p|k for the ANWB was tested in the field. I remember
    visiting n|p|k's office and seeing sample posts. Gerard has given talks about
    the type design as well. \r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.gerardunger.com/allmytypedesigns/allmytypedesigns15.html\">Type
    design for Dutch road signs</a>"
  created: '2007-03-14 21:30:59'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: Linda, do you have any examples of wayshowing signage that you consider to
    be successful?
  created: '2007-03-14 21:32:04'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Tiff: I'm a huge fan of Unger's work, and the link you posted up is terrific.
    \ \r\n\r\nRoad signage has its own quirks (as we've discussed previously, speed
    being the primary one), and to some degree, a smaller range of variables and sample
    size to test.  For starters, you don't generally get transportation engineers
    wanting to mess around with different colours of asphalt for different roads,
    or little kids who drive.  ;-)\r\n\r\nAt the opposite end of things, you've got
    airports -- if you can do an airport well, you've got it made.\r\n\r\nOff the
    top of my head, CDG is probably the most exemplary example, unless they've changed
    something radically since the last time I was there.  There, it's not \"just\"
    the signs, it's little things like how the chime (which I gather has been discontinued),
    the decor, and the architecture work together.\r\n\r\nThe expression \"sense of
    place\" is horrifically and frequently inappropriately used to communicate a venue's
    <em>zeitgeist</em>: CDG is one of the few places where it really exists.  \r\n\r\nBefore
    they did a massive reno a few years ago, the airport at Minneapolis-St. Paul was
    actually pretty good too -- I haven't been there lately.  If you watch the movie
    <em>Airport</em>, you get a half-decent sense of the terminal, where they shot
    the interiors."
  created: '2007-03-14 22:00:34'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "Sorry Linda, I meant examples other than the ones I have already mentioned.\r\n(being
    Ungers work and the Charles De Gaulle)\r\n\r\nAgree Minneapolis-St. Paul International
    Airport signage is good.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-14 22:33:19'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Not that qualifies as being \"outstandingly great\" -- there's a large mass
    of \"they do X very well, Y really poorly, and everything else falls somewhere
    in the middle with a lot that needs improving\" though....\r\n\r\n(And far too
    much of \"you've got to be kidding!\" but we won't go there.)  :-("
  created: '2007-03-14 22:40:48'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "From the outside of this discussion\u2014as a non-wayfinding designer\u2014I'd
    say a lot of this is science, but some of it must be subjective. Maybe a little
    bit of \"we read best what we read most\"?"
  created: '2007-03-14 22:44:41'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Adrian Frutiger\r\nJosef Muller Brockmann\r\nErik Spiekermann\r\nPer
    Mollerup\r\nGerard Unger\r\n\u2026Biddy?\r\n\r\na little respect please.</em>\r\n\r\nGive
    me a break. This isn't meant to be a flame-war. This is an open discussion. A
    lot of people have worked on wayfinding systems but some of those places (and
    people) you have mentioned are more interested in following established rules
    of acceptance as opposed to actual field research.\r\n\r\nThere are very few studies
    on typography legibility on signage as extensive as that done on the Clearview
    Highway System. Very few if any of the groups of people on your list have researched
    one particular area of wayfinding signage as extensively.\r\n\r\nWhile I respect
    Massimo Vignelli's contributions to the field of design, he's hardly the best
    person to name here as he restricts his typeface usage to just a few typefaces.
    His major wayfinding systems primarily use Azkidenz-Grotesk or Helvetica.\r\n\r\nNo
    one would argue with Erik Spiekermann's name on the list, as well as others and...with
    the exception of Massimo...I didn't single anyone out. So why single me out?\r\n\r\nYou
    came here looking for answers right? So please respect the people who can help
    you with your questions. Should I have just said Avenir won't cut it?\r\n\r\nYou
    also left out the people who have written one of the few manuals on the subject
    of wayfinding: Paul Arthur and Romedi Passini."
  created: '2007-03-14 22:50:20'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "Apologies Biddy if you were offended, I must say I am disappointed how angry
    this post has become. Nothing more boring than a post that deteriorates into an
    'us and them' debate.\r\n\r\nAs Linda stated:\r\n\"a common mistake made by designers
    is that anyone who does a sign thinks they are an \u201Cexpert\u201D at wayfinding\"\r\n\r\nBlanket
    statements like that are just unhelpful.\r\n\r\nThat is why I started this post,
    to try and learn more about one aspect of signage design; typography (and I have,
    thanks Stephen&Terminal). I don't consider myself an expert, never said I was.\r\n\r\nThis
    post was not intended to be 101 primer on wayfinding either, that should be keep
    for another post (or another forum)\r\n\r\nAnyway, so I guess the answer is No,
    Avenir is not appropriate for wayshowing signage. \r\nOr is it? ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-15 00:38:36'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I think the real answer lies in getting specific about the application, and
    that goes back to the other factors that tend to be important in wayfinding applications.
    Some wayfinding applications are so cakey they hardly require any usability research
    or traffic analysis (tropical resort complex), and can be set in nearly any font
    you like. Some are so critical and fraught with legal and accessibility issues
    it's unwise to start them without a team who can cover all the angles (Hospital
    site with multiple buildings, multiple car entries, designated emergency area),
    and there, type choice is more about clarity. \r\n\r\nThis is why we also can't
    make a blanket statement about Avenir. In some situations it might be perfect.
    So, with that in mind, we should know more about the project. And by that, I mean,
    what distances will people use the signage from? Will the system need to work
    indoors, outdoors, or both? Who are the users (age and ability demographics)?
    What speed is the traffic: slow strolls, fast walking, gurneys and ambulances
    racing, highway traffic? Night, day, or both? Is there existing illumination?
    Reflected or transmitted illumination? Does the budget include illuminated sign
    bases? Will the signage hang overhead? As you can see it becomes very particular,
    and the answers to these questions help you make your decisions. It's when users
    have very limited time or opportunities to take in the information on signage
    that the clarity and differentiation of a typeface becomes important. There's
    more, but I think you need to pinpoint your other variables first. "
  created: '2007-03-15 01:05:07'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Tiff: <em>From the outside of this discussion\u2014as a non-wayfinding designer\u2014I\u2019d
    say a lot of this is science, but some of it must be subjective. Maybe a little
    bit of \u201Cwe read best what we read most\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nDefining \"subjective\"
    is, ah, well, subjective.  ;-)  If you reread my message about constructing a
    test, you'll note that the construction part is objective (a question from my
    thesis was, \"what is the floor like?\"  1 point for polished concrete, 2 points
    for textured or painted concrete, 3 points for textured and painted concrete,
    4 points for low-pile wall-to-wall carpet or area rugs, 5 points for dense wall-to-wall
    carpet).  That should be pretty easy for anyone to score.\r\n\r\nBut for a wayfinding
    task (\"where is the washroom?\"), that's subjective: a venue might do well objectively
    on one or more individual elements -- floor/wall colour/texture, lighting, font
    type/size, location/colour/size of sign, for example -- but how those elements
    come together to facilitate the process is a subjective analysis.  \r\n\r\nIn
    creating the test, what's important is that as many of the objective elements
    are covered that can impact the subjective question.\r\n\r\nFamiliarity doesn't
    hurt, of course, unless what's being used is so ubiquitous that the intended audience
    tunes it out like so much white noise.  Finding a balance between that comfort
    and perking the right kind of attention -- you don't want an \"ewww\" reaction
    either! -- isn't easy.\r\n\r\nJem: <em>The say the work of Fruitger, Unger and
    Muller-Brockmann etc. only look nice is in \u2018my opinion\u2019 disrespectful.
    Most of the designers mentioned on that list have proved their capabilities many
    times over.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, you're pushing your luck with \"many times over.\"
    \ They've done fab work in isolated venues, to say that everything they touch
    turns to gold is incorrect.\r\n\r\n<em>Anyway, so I guess the answer is No, Avenir
    is not appropriate for wayshowing signage. Or is it? ;-) </em>\r\n\r\nIn the right
    weight, with appropriate colours, lighting, intended audience, and architecture,
    maybe.  :-)  Depends....\r\n\r\nCarl: <em>I think the real answer lies in getting
    specific about the application, and that goes back to the other factors that tend
    to be important in wayfinding applications. </em>\r\n\r\nIf you substituted \"useability\"
    for \"wayfinding,\" you would have been dead on: that's what it boils down to.
    \ \r\n\r\n\"Looks nice\" isn't high up on the useability list as you might think.
    \ Louis Sullivan once proclaimed that \"Form Follows Function\" and it seems that
    a lot of design (type, architectural, and interior) is more interested in exploiting
    technology than being useful these days."
  created: '2007-03-15 01:40:55'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "Thank you Cossgrove, I totally agree.\r\nI would prefer to keep the details
    of the project confidential, though all the factors you mention will definitely
    be taken into consideration if need be.\r\n\r\nAs far as the Avenir question,
    I think you have answered it.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-15 02:02:40'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Saul Goode, Jem. I also agree with Carl. It very much depends on the \"type\"
    of wayfinding system we're talking about, and of course the scope of the project.
    For small brand oriented wayfinding projects, you could probably get away with
    using anything.\r\n\r\nThere will always be type wayfinding debates, even the
    experts don't agree. Paul Arthur and Romedi Passini disagree with Erik Spiekermann
    on x-height for example. (There was a debate on Typophile not to long ago about
    that as well.)"
  created: '2007-03-15 19:28:32'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Wayfinding debates are almost as anal-retentive for detail as font construction
    ones.  ;-)
  created: '2007-03-15 22:11:05'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: Jem, why don't you make some tiled output in the size, colors, and typefaces
    you think might work, mount them on something light and rigid (Sintra? Fomecor?)
    and actually fasten those dummies to a wall/doorway/exterior location. (I know
    you don't want to divulge much so I'm not sure what places you are planning.)
    Then approach the dummies as you would if you were a "spatial consumer" just a
    bit lost and first encountering the signs. That can give you a much better sense
    of the suitability of, say, Avenir for your project than discussions here. Right
    on, Carl, for all the factors you mentioned above. If the signage is to be seen
    from cars, be sure to evaluate at the typical speed of travel, too. Then report
    back to us on what you find.
  created: '2007-03-16 03:17:04'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Am I the only one tired of Linda Cunningham\u2019s claims that she authored
    various research papers while refusing to cite any sources? (<a href=\"http://ntlsearch.bts.gov/tris/index.do\">TRIS</a>
    returns no hits relating to signage and wayfinding for \"Cunningham, L,\" nor
    does any other obvious search.)\r\n\r\nShe\u2019s quite off the mark in her dismissal
    of my criticism of Tiresias Screenfont. Among other things, it\u2019s a screenfont,
    not a signage font.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2007-10-23 20:26:04'
- author:
    name: nadine_chahine
    picture: 110003
  body: "<cite>Before they did a massive reno a few years ago, the airport at Minneapolis-St.
    Paul was actually pretty good too \u2014 I haven\u2019t been there lately. If
    you watch the movie Airport, you get a half-decent sense of the terminal, where
    they shot the interiors.<cite>\r\n\r\nActually, the signage of the movie Airport
    was created especially for the movie by Paul Mijksenaar from Holland. He was asked
    to do this because of his work on one of the NY airports. I can't remember which.
    Anyway, he has a picture in his office standing right next to Steven Spielberg.
    Quite cool!\r\n\r\nAs wayfinding goes, I find that I strongly favour what Paul
    does. One of his showcase projects is Schiphol in Amsterdam and he's done airports
    all over the world. \r\n\r\nHe himself has lectured and written a lot about wayfinding
    and has established several keypoints that a system is based on. Out of the 7
    points, the choice of typeface is defined as last. His personal favourite is Frutiger
    which he himself is turning into a global airport typeface via the numerous projects
    that he has worked on. \r\n\r\nAnyway, just thought that the discussion was missing
    a key figure. As for the question, Avenir is a great typeface, Avenir Next even
    more, but if you like the Adrian Frutiger touch then you should go for the Frutiger."
  created: '2007-10-23 21:57:45'
date: '2007-03-12 18:53:03'
node_type: forum
title: Is Avenir an appropriate typeface for wayshowing signage?

---
