---
author:
  name: Nick Cooke
  picture: 109834
body: "I don't know if this has been discussed previously...\r\n\r\nWhat does the
  type community think of <a href=\"http://www.fontwise.com/aboutservice.asp?part=1\">Fontwise</a>
  by Monotype? Apparently Monotype are presenting this service to major type users
  in the UK and companies are signing up to a contract. This means that large agencies,
  publishers or whatever can only buy any new typefaces exclusively from Monotype.
  I'm not sure that Monotype would do their best to fulfill a request to acquire any
  typeface from a foundry not owned by them - maybe they would suggest something similar
  in their library.\r\n\r\nOf course Monotype are presenting Fontwise as a font management
  system which makes it easy for large organizations to keep control of licensing
  and ensure legality. They complete a font audit within a company, but if any discrepancies
  come to light such as customized fonts, a company could find itself having the extra
  cost of \"legalising the modifications\". As many publishers have their own versions
  of typefaces; eg, having a few characters altered or respacing and kerning I am
  sure they will not welcome this extra expense, especially if the alterations were
  done when the license stated that modification is allowed if the original font is
  licensed for the correct number of users and is not being sold or given away and
  only being used within that company.\r\n\r\nDoes anybody think this is a good thing,
  or just a thinly disguised attempt to monopolize the typeface market? They already
  own ITC and Linotype, and I am sure many smaller distributors and independent foundries
  will start to feel the pinch as more companies sign up to Fontwise."
comments:
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "I dont get the feeling it\u2019s about monopoly \u2013 all these foundries
    are also represented:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontwise.com/foundries.asp?part=1"
  created: '2007-03-14 12:40:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Oh, I'm represented and didn't even know it! That's not too bad then.\r\n\r\nBut
    what about smaller distributors like Fontworks UK who've backed me from the beginning?
    How do Montype get hold of my stuff? - I don't have any contract with them.\r\n\r\nNick
    Cooke"
  created: '2007-03-14 12:51:30'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>How do Montype get hold of my stuff? - I don\u2019t have any contract
    with them.</cite>\r\n\r\nDo they need a contract with you just to recognize a
    font and let people know that it came from you? This isn't much different from
    a third-party specimen book; as long as Monotype isn't actually selling your fonts
    it's probably legal."
  created: '2007-03-14 13:45:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "From what I understand, anyone signed up to Fontwise is restricted from dealing
    with other suppliers and all typefaces have to be supplied by Monotype. Is that
    not the case?\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2007-03-14 14:18:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That sounds a bit bizarre and limiting of competition. Why would they have
    to limit customers to their site for purchase? They certainly don't have the best
    site for font purchase around. It would seem that they should just design a superior
    site and go on the better-mousetrap theory.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-14 14:55:35'
- author:
    name: kristin
    picture: 110305
  body: "I don't see this restriction mentioned in the PDF. According to the PDF,
    the program will automatically license any Monotype font that gets loaded into
    your system. So they have some kind of direct link to their own purchasing site
    (and your credit card?). \r\n\r\nI assume, then, that loading a font Monotype
    does not sell does not trigger this automatic license system.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-14 15:00:29'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Just for sake of discussion, there is an alternative solution which is software-based
    only, meaning the manufacturer of the auditing app is not getting in on the deal.
    I think this would be preferable. I am forgetting the name but I think it's French.
    Anyone know it?
  created: '2007-03-14 15:23:05'
- author:
    name: petra
  body: I think you mean FontChannel - that's the name of the product, not sure if
    it is also the name of the company supplying it.
  created: '2007-03-14 15:39:33'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "I know that 10 or 15 years ago, Macmillan publishing had a similar arrangement
    with Bitstream. They got a deal on buying all their fonts, and then freelancers
    like me had to buy BT copies of fonts we already had. Problem was, Macmillan wouldn't
    pay for the fonts, and on some jobs I needed to spend $600 in fonts to get a $1200
    contract.\r\n\r\nGosh, I wonder why I stopped freelancing.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-14 15:41:29'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Gosh, I wonder why I stopped freelancing.</em>\r\n\r\nROFL!  Yeah, I
    had a client a number of years ago who offered me a week-max/minimum wage job
    laying-out a manual on condition I bought FrameMaker.\r\n\r\nNick, arrangements
    like this make me question their process as well.  After looking at the website,
    I can see where something like this might appeal to smaller companies who want
    to trim costs and ensure they're legal.  My guess is that multi-nationals probably
    already have the capacity to track this sort of thing in-house, and that sole
    practitioners either do it or don't care to.\r\n\r\nDoes strike me as something
    designed to prey upon people's fears though...."
  created: '2007-03-14 16:18:26'
- author:
    name: kristin
    picture: 110305
  body: "Just getting back to this post. Actually, I've always thought that any legal
    action will be taken against multi-nationals rather than small companies because
    the pay-off would make the length of a legal battle worthwhile.\r\n\r\n<cite>My
    guess is that multi-nationals probably already have the capacity to track this
    sort of thing in-house,</cite>\r\n\r\nActually, I doubt that very much. Here at
    megacorporation, the concern over security issues makes the tech team very reluctant
    to install any software that could connect directly to individual corporate computers.
    \r\n\r\nWe make a good faith effort to install proper practices among our co-workers
    including deleting the fonts from their computers when they are done using them,
    but I'd be a fool to think the practice is widespread. The type team tends to
    overestimate our multiple usage numbers to allow for these problems. \r\n"
  created: '2007-03-27 22:06:37'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "OK, in theory I support Fontwise as it ensures that type designers and font
    engineers are paid for their work. For too long the practice of sharing fonts
    has been going on. I remember about 10 years ago there was a statistic that for
    every font bought, five copies were made and used. And that's just in Europe and
    North America. The moment you go to places where only minimal copyright laws exist
    and theft/piracy is regarded as an act of valour you will find this ratio rises
    to about 1:25.\r\n\r\nYes we are on the 'signed-up' list at Monotype. But we have
    no formal agreement with them. It is because we have worked with Monotype in the
    past and have a good relationship. \r\n\r\nI too have heard that a Fontwise contract
    will tie the client to buy fonts exclusively to Monotype. This is of course monopolistic
    and predatory (and potentially illegal under most trade laws). And that's what
    I object to. This will eventually push independents out of business as more and
    more clients will go to Monotype as the first port of call - be that for straight
    font licensing or customisation. As far as Dalton Maag is concerned it may put
    us in an awkward position as clients may question our legality. Furthermore, original
    fonts designed by us will flag up on Fontwise as potentially illegal. I don't
    know how Monotype handles such flagged up fonts - whether they contact the original
    designer tracing the source of fonts, or whether they simply demand payment from
    the client. I know that they contacted me about fonts we have done for a client
    to establish their rightfulness.\r\n\r\nMonotype now controls the three biggest
    font libraries which contain most of the best known fonts. Establishing Fontwise
    also gives them control over our potential client base, and thus control over
    our business activities.\r\n\r\nI am concerned that in the long term the combined
    behemoth MT/LT/ITC and Fontwise will impact on the smaller foundries and independent
    font retailers. Companies such as ourselves and retailers will need to double
    their efforts to put client's minds at ease in regards to legality and copyright
    if they want to maintain their business. Alternatively, all independent designers
    will have to 'sign up' to MT's Fontwise to be part of the legal database and give
    MT a de facto license to retail their fonts. \r\n\r\nBruno Maag\r\nDalton Maag
    Ltd\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: malcolm
      picture: 109919
    body: "I very much agree with Bruno, Fontwise is a good idea, but it is being
      used by a commercial company to enhance their commercial interests. I can understand
      them doing that, but they may well be tempted, from being in such a dominant
      position, to simply cross reference fonts that they may not have access to.
      I\u2019m not saying that Monotype carries out this practice, but I do know that
      some font distributors have done this, and some probably still do.\r\n\r\nWhen
      a user is locked into a single distributor it is easy for that distributor to
      say to the user \u201Cg-type fonts (for example) are not easily obtainable so
      to avoid being compromised with possibly illegal versions of g-type fonts \u2013
      let us license you with fonts of a similar design from our own sources\u201D.
      So the distributor makes on the new font license, Nick Cooke looses income and
      exposure of his g-type font library.\r\n\r\nIt is very hard to be an independent
      font designer without the assistance of organisations like Monotype Imaging
      to give you wide exposure, and it\u2019s a sad reflection of the font industry
      that, apart from MyFonts.com, Monotype are now the only boys in town. And what
      has driven the industry to this position \u2013 that\u2019s simple \u2013 font
      piracy.\r\n\r\nOne only has to check the listing in alt.binaries.fonts to get
      a feel for the amout of font data being passed around illicitly,  much of which
      is original work of independent font designers.\r\n\r\nMalcolm Wooden\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-03-28 16:50:19'
  created: '2007-03-28 11:58:25'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: <a href="www.fontchannel.com/">fontchannel.com</a> seems to be offline. Can
    any of our Typophiles in France help us track down the <a href="http://www.societe.com/societe/fontchannel-451520746.html">Fontchannel</a>
    folks to join this conversation? It sounds like I'm not the only one looking for
    an independent alternative to Fontwise.
  created: '2007-03-28 16:58:54'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'I need to clarify something from the first post: FontWise is a service for
    tracking and managing licenses, from any company. There is no requirement or restriction
    on where the font licenses come from. It would be ludicrous to offer this service
    and then require that all purchases be made from one font store. Can you imagine
    any large ad agency being willing to sign up for that? Nick, please do your research. '
  created: '2007-03-28 17:47:09'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Carl, can you explain what happens when Fontwise finds fonts that are a) from
    foundries sold by Monotype Imagining and b) fonts that are not sold by Monotype
    Imaging?
  created: '2007-03-28 18:24:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Carl, this is from the Fontwise pdf:\r\n\r\nYour authorised users can licence
    any font as they need it through the Fontwise centralised database and purchasing
    system. Now you have a complete font licensing database that can be monitored
    dynamically. So at a glance you know what fonts your staff are using and critically,
    that you\u2019re always correctly licensed.\r\nWhat\u2019s more, your font specifiers
    can use the database as a centralised font resource,\r\neliminating ad-hoc licensing
    and reducing system maintenance due to corrupt or infected\r\nfiles being loaded
    from unauthorised sources.\r\nThe FontwiseTM database can also link online to
    Monotype to try out fonts prior to\r\npurchase. Each time a font is acquired this
    way your licensing position is automatically\r\nupdated on the database. So your
    licensing position is always clear \u2013 you\u2019ll never have to\r\naudit your
    fonts again!\r\nFontwiseTM provides a future proof solution you can rely on to
    end the chaos often\r\nsurrounding font licensing.\r\n\r\nDoes the Fontwise centralised
    database and purchasing system include every font by every independent foundry?
    Of course there is a link online to Monotype. My main concern is future purchasers
    of type being steered to Monotype only. See the first sentence of Malcolm's post.\r\n\r\nIt
    would be ludicrous to offer this service and then require that all purchases be
    made from one font store - I know, but I think that is the case when a company
    has this contract. Hopefully somebody from Monotype can put me straight on this
    and tell us all that it isn't so.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2007-03-28 18:28:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Does the Fontwise centralised database and purchasing system include every
    font by every independent foundry? \r\n\r\nMy company has a \"centralised database
    and purchasing system\". The centralized database is a tool that stores licenses,
    and the 'purchasing system' is me. If Fontwise works the same way then the conflict
    of interest is if the customer asks for Humanist 777 and the 'purchasing system'
    suggests Frutiger as an alternative. \r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-28 18:45:06'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\nRemember the thread where someone kept pestering Typophile
    for information about Apple support for a burned power cable? Did that seem inappropriate
    to you? Well.... \r\n\r\nI can supply contact information for someone at FontWise
    if you like, or maybe you could get it from the FontWise site, since I know you've
    been there. Try the \"Contact Us\" link.\r\n\r\nRather than stir up gossip on
    this forum, why not do a little research and come back with some facts? Your concern
    appears to be based on misunderstanding the difference between \"can\" and \"must\".
    Maybe you can be the one who provides the answer, rather than the Chicken Little
    who raises a false alarm."
  created: '2007-03-28 19:01:47'
- author:
    name: kristin
    picture: 110305
  body: "Has anyone worked with Extensis <a href=\"http://www.extensis.com/en/products/font_management/product_information.jsp?id=1010\"><b>Font
    Reserve</b></a>? That system seems to keep track of font usage within a network
    without any automatic link to a specific font vendor, if I'm reading the site
    correctly. What are the differences between tracking through Fontwise and tracking
    through Font Reserve?\r\n\r\nThanks!"
  created: '2007-03-29 14:59:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "OK, I posed some questions via email to the people at Fontwise and Alin,
    a lady who works at Monotype HQ in Redhill in the UK very kindly phoned me with
    some answers.\r\n\r\nFrom what she told me there are apparently two types of contract;
    one where the client is tied to Monotype and its products, and the other where
    the client is free to choose whatever they want. It seems that if the Fontwise
    client has the non-restrictive contract they can acquire other non-Monotype fonts
    direct from the supplier or through Fontwise. Although, as there is no mention
    of two types of contract on the website I'm wondering if both get equal billing
    when selling the product. I can't say I'm exactly overjoyed at the first type
    of contract.\r\n\r\nThe question of representation is a bit woolly, as there is
    no formal representation. Monotype Fontwise will acquire independent fonts from
    the correct sources if requested.\r\n\r\nI agree Fontwise is a good idea in theory,
    its objectives are laudable. If only it was run by an impartial company that doesn't
    sell typefaces.\r\n\r\nSo Carl, why exactly do you find this thread to be inappropriate?
    I would have thought that as an independent type designer you may be a little
    concerned if a Megacorp was trying to elbow you into the gutter. Perhaps you don't
    need to worry. Congratulations.\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2007-03-29 15:12:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick,\r\nAlthough Carl has just released his type family Beorcana through
    Monotype, he also has released type designs through Adobe and ITC, among others.
    I don't think he is under any exclusive arrangement with Monotype or salaried
    by them.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-29 16:28:15'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nI am a type designer who happens to be employed by \"a Megacorp\",
    The very one you're feeling threatened by. I do care if any company is attempting
    to monopolise any market, and that's not the case at all: signing up for FontWise
    isn't compulsory any more than buying all your fonts from Monotype. Now, after
    the lengthy thread and all the worrisome comments, you know better. Isn't it paranoid
    to now say: \"Elbow you into the gutter\"? You finally have substantive information
    and you're choosing to interpret it the most dreary and negative way possible.
    \r\n\r\nMy objection here is that you (and the Mac power cable inquirer) repeatedly
    asked a general group of people a question that was relevant to a specific party,
    one not hidden from you or difficult to find. I notice you didn't ask where to
    find the information, you only implied that you'd like a Monotype rep to appear
    to feed answers to you.\r\n\r\nI like to think Typophile can be less of a gossip
    station and more substantially informative. If you have access to information
    and you don't take it, don't blame \"a Megacorp\" for feeling taken advantage
    of. Knowledge is power. Don't you think the readers and posters of this thread
    would have appreciated for you to bring all the information up front, rather than
    sound an unnecessary alarm? Other people come here for information too; consider
    also providing it occasionally, especially when it's about 3 mouse clicks away. "
  created: '2007-03-29 16:31:35'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "Carl,\r\n\r\nI believe that this discussion is perfectly legitimate and by
    the sheer existence of this discussion, surely, you can acknowledge that there
    is concern in the community. I appreciate that you are defensive of your employer,
    and I myself have worked for Monotype in the past. However, I think that we need
    to keep a keen eye on what could have potential for abuse of a monopoly situation.\r\n\r\nTo
    call Nick's concerns gossiping is inappropriate. If I were a conspiracy theorist
    I'd think that there must be something in this, judging by your quite abrasive
    reaction. But I am not and I will give Monotype the benefit of doubt that they
    will do what's right. \r\n\r\nIn the meantime I will keep my eyes open and I will
    talk to my peers in the industry to see whether this scheme is as benign as you
    claim it is.\r\n\r\nBruno Maag"
  created: '2007-04-02 10:18:01'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: I tend to agree with Nick in the first post. While the aim of Monotype seems
    to be laudable, i.e., to insure complete legal and permitted usage of fonts, I
    can't help but wonder what the aim is in the first place. Since probably most
    font vendors have strict usage reguirements, EULAs, etc., it seems that the Monotype
    approach may be more than simply providing a service to insure that fonts are
    not used illegally. It would seem logical therefore that, whether or not intended,
    the customer will always come back to Monotype for font purchases regardless of
    whether or not an attempt is being made to monopolize the market because the implication
    is that, when and if the client or customer comes back, he can be assured of protection
    and observation of legal usage and there is no such guarantee through other vendors,
    again, by implication.
  created: '2007-04-02 18:02:51'
date: '2007-03-14 11:24:59'
node_type: forum
title: Monotypopoly

---
