---
author:
  name: Dan Gayle
  picture: 111595
body: "I was just reading the Myfonts.com March 2007 Rising Stars newslettter, and
  I happened to see the following quote from Rebecca Alaccari of Canada Type:\r\n\r\n<cite>Both
  Patrick and I put in an average of 10 to 12 work hours a day, 6 days of most weeks.</cite>\r\n\r\nDamn.
  I also saw a recent post where someone mentioned if you couldn't sit in front of
  a computer for more than 3 hours at a time you probably aren't cut out for the type
  design business.\r\n\r\nSo what's the scale? What's reasonable? I understand that
  it takes a long time to create a typeface, but there's got to be a line somewhere.
  All work and no sleep or play makes Dan Gayle a grumpy mean person with bad hair
  and no girlfriend.\r\n\r\nWhat do you think is typical for the industry?"
comments:
- author:
    name: dstype
    picture: 111104
  body: "I don't know. \r\nBut I usually work about 10 hours per day and only sometimes
    I take the weekends off.\r\n\r\nI think that type design is more a passion than
    a profession.\r\nAnyway, if we look to Hermann Zapf we can say that type design
    must be a healthy exercise ;^)\r\n\r\n\r\nDino"
  created: '2007-03-14 18:50:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: A recent study looked at the careers of successful people in many walks of
    life, and compared them with those "most likely to" from school days. Did the
    ones who did best at school do best in later life? Maybe. But in whatever field,
    it was found that you have to work crazy hours for ten years to get to the top.
  created: '2007-03-14 19:07:54'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: I think the life of a mendicant monk sounds attractive right now.
  created: '2007-03-14 19:12:13'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Leslie Cabarga's Logo and Lettering book has a nice albeit brief summary
    about the hours many of the font designers including me invest in working. Page
    235 - I, Designaholic section . . .\r\n\r\nPersonally I have 3 full workdays when
    the kiddos are in school and they run from 8:30 till 5:00 with a 20 minute lunch.
    On the other days, I'm checking and replying to e-mail about every 2-3 hours or
    so and making or taking phone calls throughout the day else I'm pre-planning my
    workload for my full workdays. Some evenings for 2-3 hours after the kids go to
    bed are spent working as well if the mood strikes me.\r\n\r\nIt's not optimal
    in terms of my desired output of work or the required focus of fontmaking when
    you're in the groove so to speak but I've lowered my expectations of the quantity
    I'm able to produce a bit and am pleased with what I am able to produce. I've
    also spent time delegating work that I feel doesn't require my expertise which
    explains all the phone calls.\r\n\r\nOverall, the family thing is a much bigger
    deal for me so it deserves my primary focus and everything else can fall out of
    the time not spent with my family.\r\n\r\nStuart :D"
  created: '2007-03-14 19:26:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My full-time job and commute subtracts 11 hours from my day (for the timebeing
    anyway). I have a wife and 2 kids but they are not young and all-consuming like
    they used to be :-)\r\nThis leaves me some amount of time for sleeping, eating,
    etc. I play tennis a couple of times a week and take voice lessons. All the rest
    is spent designing type, not because I have to but because I want to. I would
    love to be able to spend 12 hours a day designing type. I enjoy the time I do
    get to now. Since I am retiring in June, I will have more time to give it a go.
    Dino is right, as is James Montalbano of your 12 hour quote, designing type is
    a passion, not a job. Those who are not passionate about it probably won't do
    it for very long.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-14 19:59:53'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Nice writing, thank you.
  created: '2007-03-14 20:43:11'
- author:
    name: dstype
    picture: 111104
  body: "The life of a mendicant monk is GREAT!\r\n\r\n\r\nDino"
  created: '2007-03-14 22:40:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm not good at calculating averages, but I can tell you my record\r\nis
    16 hours. Obviously, I didn't get out of my pyjamas. And just as\r\nobviously,
    I was younger then.\r\n\r\n> you have to work crazy hours for ten years to get
    to the top.\r\n\r\nIt can't be that simple.\r\nPlus \"the top\" is an illusion
    anyway.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-15 03:46:22'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "\"Talent? Anyone can have that. I don't believe in talent; I believe in work.\"\r\n\r\n\u2013
    Mies van der Rohe to Philip Johnson\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-15 05:12:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "How protestant. Which -I just realized- you can't spell without \"ant\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-15 05:20:43'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "<em>\"It's amazing that the amount of news that happens in the world every
    day always just exactly fits the newspaper.\"</em>\r\nJerry Seinfeld"
  created: '2007-03-15 06:31:30'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I believe it was Dave Farey who said, and I am paraphrasing, "Type design
    requires a fair amount of talent, but an enormous about of stamina."
  created: '2007-03-15 15:04:53'
- author:
    name: matthew_desmond
    picture: 110578
  body: "I find it's different when I'm working on commissioned work vs. my own retail
    work. I think to some degree, having a commercial project \"forces\" me to be
    creative and meet deadlines, generally working 10+ hour days during daylight hours.\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, with my personal projects, it's only the creativity that is tough
    to come by. I can sit at the computer day and night only stopping for brief periods
    of sustenance when the creativity is there. \r\n\r\nJoe Kral is a man who can
    work in fontographer with the stamina of a marathon runner.\r\n\r\nIn my opinion
    the quality of a type design is equal to the time put into it."
  created: '2007-03-15 18:49:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \u201Cforces\u201D me to be creative\r\n\r\nDoes that actually work?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-15 19:10:06'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "No but it's a necessary belief when you have deadlines. At least for me\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-03-15 19:15:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It helps when you're putting in all that long work, if it actually improves
    the product.\r\n\r\nWe're all subject to diminishing returns, as the rate plateaus,
    but the trick is to keep working and squeezing out incremental improvements, keeping
    going rather than just spinning wheels."
  created: '2007-03-15 19:32:26'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: sometimes when i meet people, they ask what i do for work. i tell them that
    i draw letters. they ask what i do for fun, and i tell them that i draw letters.
    it does kind of consume you, if you let it.
  created: '2007-03-15 19:37:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"sometimes when i meet people, they ask what i do for work. i tell them
    that i draw letters. \"\r\n\r\nWhen I say stuff like that, I get answers like,
    \"You mean people actually do that?\"\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-15 19:40:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the trick is to keep working and squeezing out incremental improvements\r\n\r\nAnd/or
    gush out quantum leaps, which allows a large savings in years.  :-)\r\n\r\nA while
    back a friend of my wife glimpsed me drawing letters. When she asked and I explained,
    she said \"Oh, that's cute\", which of course made me want to slap her. Her husband
    once had a high-flying real estate business, and she was a shopaholic. Now he's
    in jail, and she's disappeared...* Which reminds me of a recent ref by M Carter
    to a fictional story about a criminal type designer; it's in a book of short stories
    by Ron Carlson entitled \"Hotel Eden\" - the other stories are interesting as
    well (and they're the first fiction I've read in quite a long time - another symptom
    of designing type).\r\n\r\n* Major schadenfreude - mea culpa.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-15 20:11:50'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>She said \u201COh, that\u2019s cute\u201D, which of course made me want
    to slap her.</em>\r\n\r\nI think that's the main problem with type being undervalued,
    at least in the states. The masses tend to think of type as merely an aesthetic
    option and don't realize more goes into it than that (in text faces at least)."
  created: '2007-03-15 20:17:24'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "The other problem, is that those of us who sit to do the type within 10-12
    hours a day, make it appear so easy. We have lost the respect of the outside world
    who will step on/spit on - and don't understand the talent or hours that are spent
    on each job. (In this case type design, in others, just design itself.)\r\n\r\nYes,
    not only do we spend so many hours in front of a screen and a keyboard - we suffer
    for it with lack of exercise and fresh air.\r\n\r\nAddition: or give up valuable
    downtime - because someone needs it NOW -- and our rest periods do not count toward
    our healths - ever notice how everyone else's priority is more important than
    your own?"
  created: '2007-03-15 20:21:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Get kids (or at least a dog) and your health will improve greatly! Well,
    not counting the first few months (apparently sometimes going well past a year,
    dammit) of not getting any sleep...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-15 20:26:25'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<cite>She said \u201COh, that\u2019s cute\u201D, which of course made me
    want to slap her</cite>\r\n\r\nI have never had that reaction! People are generally
    really interested & respectful when I tell them.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u201Cforces\u201D
    me to be creative</cite>\r\n\r\nI understand this. Nothing like a deadline to
    get the juices flowing! It is just really hard to impose a deadline onto yourself,
    especially for type design, as it could just go on forever\u2026\r\n\r\n& for
    the record, I think I average 10hrs/day designing type. \r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-03-15 20:55:30'
- author:
    name: cooper design
    picture: 111844
  body: "Get to the top? I am reminded of a hilariously profane debate on The Wire
    about the genius that designed the Chicken McNugget:\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kGknlEWjxZc\r\n\r\nLong
    hours or not, design is no way to get rich. Believe."
  created: '2007-03-15 23:32:09'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>I have never had that reaction! People are generally really interested
    & respectful when I tell them.</em>\r\n\r\nI smiled when I read this because I
    knew you didn't live in America. Paul's right about being undervalued here in
    the states...I would go as far as saying design in general is. Just compare design
    Ph.D programs in the states with that of Europe."
  created: '2007-03-15 23:46:43'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: This is very encouraging to hobbyists like myself who would like to design
    and produce one or two typefaces in their lives. At this rate, I'll be ready to
    show my work in about 40 years. Crud. By then we won't even be using TT/OT/whatever.
  created: '2007-03-16 01:24:07'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: " \"(apparently sometimes going well past a year, dammit) of not getting any
    sleep\u2026\"\r\n\r\nLOL every time I consider the possibility of having another
    baby, it's not the thought of going through labour that changes my mind, it's
    remembering that I get to be sleep deprived for over a year. And then I think,
    nah, I'm too old for that.\r\n\r\nAs for work ethics, if deadlines didn't exist
    I would never get anything done. I do my best work under pressure--but not so
    much that I can't see straight. Just enough to add some adrenaline.\r\n\r\nK. "
  created: '2007-03-16 13:44:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Having 2 kids is 4 times as consuming as having just one. Kids have a way
    of timing things so that a moments rest is never to be had. Those so precious
    moments when they are snuggled in your arms are worth it though. One gummy grin
    can melt away a weeks worth of exhaustian :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-16 15:35:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's definitely exponential and not linear, but one way we're lucky is that
    our older one superbly entertains the little one. Often when we need some \"off
    time\" to do something or when we're simply at wit's end, we'll bark: \"Hrad,
    do something or other with Goryune!\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-16 15:57:50'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: ":) Yes, and then the older one figures out quickly enough that \"go do something
    with Zach\" can become, if well-orchestrated, a chance to torment and torture
    him while mom is busy. \r\n\r\nBut yes, it is all worth it. They melt hearts,
    only I'd have to get a mini van. I doubt three car seats would fit in the back
    of my little silver bullet. ;)\r\n\r\nK.\r\n "
  created: '2007-03-16 22:05:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I\u2019d have to get a mini van.\r\n\r\nThe horror.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-16 23:13:42'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "I think those Canadians are just wack. Don't cut my nuts off for saying this
    but the design of Type just ain't worth it.\r\n\r\nIt's all been done before hasn't
    it? We already have lots of great typefaces. What I mean to say is, what's the
    use of one more friggin font? It's not like Type can temper our nature - <em>or
    can it</em>?\r\n\r\nBut if you want to build a successful business selling your
    own designs then you're being driven not by Type - but by having a sustainable
    business. And building your own business can consume 24/7.\r\n\r\nIn fact, it
    can put you in an early grave.\r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-17 05:58:59'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "There's plenty to explore in type. If you don't feel driven to do that, or
    even worse, try to turn something you enjoy into a business, you will likely get
    a lot more sleep.\r\n\r\nOr, you can do what I did. Ditch the hair. Saves shampoo,
    too."
  created: '2007-03-17 06:36:03'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<cite>I think those Canadians are just wack. Don\u2019t cut my nuts off for
    saying this but the design of Type just ain\u2019t worth it\u2026It\u2019s all
    been done before hasn\u2019t it</cite>\r\n\r\nAre you being deliberately ignorant?
    Have you tried applying hat same train of thought to every other art?\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-03-17 07:28:00'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "<cite>It\u2019s all been done before hasn\u2019t it? We already have lots
    of great typefaces. What I mean to say is, what\u2019s the use of one more friggin
    font? It\u2019s not like Type can temper our nature - or can it?</cite>\r\n\r\nDo
    you like to eat the same food every week? And listen to the same ten records you
    got, over and over again?"
  created: '2007-03-17 10:57:05'
- author:
    name: Marc C
    picture: 112221
  body: "<cite> She said \u201COh, that\u2019s cute\u201D, which of course made me
    want to slap her</cite> \r\n\r\nThats make me remenbering two weeks ago, I had
    to choose which one (about my two letters) is the best, and I saw my neightbor
    outside so I went outside and asked Kim about my letters, whitout hesitation she
    gaved me a answers (I like when people can tell whitout hesitation) but on a other
    hands, she was looking at me like, you spent your week-end drawing L E T T E R
    ' S !!!!!!\r\n\r\nShame on me -LOL-"
  created: '2007-03-17 11:13:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hiro may have been putting us on.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-17 14:28:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> It\u2019s all been done before hasn\u2019t it?\r\n\r\nThat's never true
    in any field.\r\nIn type, Legato for one proves that's wrong.\r\n\r\n> But if
    you want to build a successful business selling your own\r\n> designs then you\u2019re
    being driven not by Type - but by having\r\n> a sustainable business.\r\n\r\nIt's
    never one thing. I would say that one's career path depends most on:\r\ncircumstance;
    financial necessity; moral/social responsabilty; and passion.\r\nFor example prostitution
    arises most strongly from the first two, while type\r\ndesign arises mostly from
    the first and last.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-17 14:32:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>It\u2019s all been done before hasn\u2019t it?</em>\r\n\r\nYou must have
    missed the \"Softmachine Launched\" thread.\r\n\r\n<em>But if you want to build
    a successful business selling your own designs then you\u2019re being driven not
    by Type -- but by having a sustainable business.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think the
    two are incompatible. I've found that at least part of the time, being my own
    boss enables me to design whatever the f*ck I want, \"driven by type\", and there's
    usually someone somewhere who considers it useful and worth licensing. The tail
    is long."
  created: '2007-03-17 17:05:29'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Dez, yeah hence my italicized \" <em>- or can it?</em>\"\r\n\r\nIn the right
    context and when Type is done well - it has had, and will continue to have, an
    enormous impact. And what's the worth of that? I for one believe you reap what
    you sow, and Type is well worth a life's devotion.\r\n\r\nNick, try selling complete
    sh*t - and you'll quickly get to the truth of <em>\"...being my own boss enables
    me to design whatever the f*ck I want,\" </em>. Nice rhetoric, but that dog won't
    hunt. \r\nAnd I didn't see anything important/original with your Softmachine -
    sorry bro, it's a commercial bastardization of great work done way back. And we're
    now getting to the truth of 'The business of Type'.\r\n\r\nI can imagine that
    soon there'll be computer programs which will be able to create typefaces from
    taking characteristics from any of the thousands and thousands of typefaces already
    in exsistance. The program will be able to cough-up another face simply by combining
    features and the user will be able to tweak the 'design' at their will.\r\n\r\nIf
    you want to design an important/original typeface, then design of our time. Show
    something of ourselves never seen before. And that will involve putting Type ahead
    of business.\r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro  "
  created: '2007-03-17 18:48:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Softmachine is interesting (although Advert Rough is prototypical of its
    core concept) and it's certainly conceptually, if not stylistically, more original
    than most fonts, which is saying a lot. Nick is taking -and generally takes- too
    much credit for originality, which is typical of the artistically inclined, but
    that's not nearly as bad as not being original at all. Nick and his Softmachine
    are ahead of the pack. Pick on the real bores instead.\r\n\r\n> putting Type ahead
    of business.\r\n\r\nIndeed, culture and materialsim are opposed - anybody who
    says otherwise is a deluded apologist for materialism. This however does not mean
    that each one of us stikes -indeed cannot avoid striking- some balance between
    the two - very often a precarious one, in one direction or the other. Balance
    is hard, not least because it's dynamic - if you ever stop vying for it, things
    are guaranteed to tip over. And this is why an eternal student is the only way
    to be.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-17 19:01:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, try selling complete sh*t - and you\u2019ll quickly get to the
    truth of \u201C\u2026being my own boss enables me to design whatever the f*ck
    I want,\u201D . Nice rhetoric, but that dog won\u2019t hunt.</em>\r\n\r\nWhile
    I wouldn't categorize any of my work as complete sh*t, things don't always turn
    out as expected, and following an idea for a typeface to its conclusion doesn't
    always result in what I would consider great usability. However, I'm not the one
    who ultimately decides on usability, and the classic example of that is the art
    directors who take micro type (Bell, Freight Micro) and use it in completely the
    \"wrong\" way, huge. \r\n\r\nAs a business model, I subscribe to the notion that
    I should make many fonts, and have many distributors. Potentially, my market is
    over half a billion computer users, and the internet reaches worldwide. So, according
    to the \"long tail\" theory, there is always someone somewhere who will see something
    in the obscure end of a product line, and the outcome is that the big sellers
    don't account for the majority of sales. Surely the Long Tail theory is borne
    out by the proliferation of foundries at Myfonts?\r\n\r\n<em>And I didn\u2019t
    see anything important/original with your Softmachine - sorry bro, it\u2019s a
    commercial bastardization of great work done way back. And we\u2019re now getting
    to the truth of \u2018The business of Type\u2019.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm sorry you are
    so jaded that you fail to recognize genuine originality. As far as I am aware,
    nobody has previously made a font specifically for digital outlining, despite
    that effect having been around twenty years; and no type designer has used contextual
    alternates to optimize the appearance of stroking. These features may not be a
    big deal, but they are original. Yes, it's \"commercial\", but aren't all published
    fonts (except freeware) -- so that's not much of diss. And bastardization? Well
    sure, I didn't invent rounded type! -- but I drew Softmachine from scratch, not
    based on any particular model. Would you care to mention the sources which you
    think I ripped off? \r\n\r\n<em>If you want to design an important/original typeface,
    then design of our time. Show something of ourselves never seen before. And that
    will involve putting Type ahead of business.</em>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/soft462b_3915.png]"
  created: '2007-03-17 19:20:23'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em> i tell them that i draw letters. they ask what i do for fun, and i tell
    them that i draw letters. it does kind of consume you, if you let it.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's
    like anything where passion is a large part of one's <em>raison d'\xEAtre</em>
    -- I get that sometimes when I'm asked about making books.  \r\n\r\n\"You mean
    you write Harlequin Romances?\"\r\n\r\nAh, no...."
  created: '2007-03-17 20:14:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "In the neighborhood where I grew up, making books would have been considered
    a respected profession; \"Hey den, hah baut yinz puttin' 10 bucks on dat nag Phillie
    Fiend in dah 4th den whud'ya?\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-17 21:14:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Surely the Long Tail theory is borne out by\r\n> the proliferation of foundries
    at Myfonts?\r\n\r\nMaybe. But that phenomenon could also be explained by the coupling
    of the recent so-called \"democratization\" of type design with the long-standing
    \"ennuie of the affluent\" in the West.\r\n\r\n> nobody has previously made a
    font specifically for digital outlining\r\n\r\nTo repeat from the Softmachine
    thread: it seems like this is not true, since the layering of purposefully-spaced
    weights is effectively the same as outlining.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-17 21:24:56'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>In the neighborhood where I grew up, making books would have been considered
    a respected profession</em>\r\n\r\nBe grateful you're not a person who does rugs
    with a latch tool.\r\n\r\nBetter to be a bookie than a hooker....  ;-)"
  created: '2007-03-17 23:07:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>it seems like this is not true, since the layering of purposefully-spaced
    weights is effectively the same as outlining.</em>\r\n\r\nBut it is true, because
    layering is a quite different process than outlining, requiring overlpapping text
    boxes or layers, which are much more of a hassle to work with than creating an
    outline by applying a stroke value. For instance, if you decide to edit the text,
    or adjust the size, or kerning or tracking in a layered setting, you have to do
    so in each and every layer, and that multiplies the confusion between stroke and
    fill button choices. There may also be problems with layer alignment, caused by
    the layout application's interpretation of character placement. Furthermore, layering
    is not infinitely adjustable, whereas stroke width is. These are significant practical
    differences. \r\n\r\nAnd finally, the lower case character shapes and general
    proportions of Softmachine were designed specifically to accomodate an outline
    stroke of precise thickness. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-17 23:40:22'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: Hiroshige who the fuck do you think you are coming into a placve like this
    and slagging type design? Prick.
  created: '2007-03-18 00:03:58'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "keep in mind Nick said <strong>part of the time</strong> he gets to do what
    he wants. Which is better than some jobs...\r\n\r\n\"Yeah, boss, I think after
    lunch I'm gunna take a few hours to dig a ditch over there instead of here like
    you said. I just have a feeling that it would be good. Whahdya mean 'fired'?\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-18 02:07:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This is getting too off-topic, but...\r\n\r\n> layering is a quite different
    process than outlining\r\n\r\nMechanically they're different, but the result is
    pretty much the same; a graphic designer is simply given a different way to do
    a very similar thing (and what else is new?). The advantage of outlining is indeed
    convenience, but: layering isn't as complex as you describe - all you need is
    to copy-paste the text box in place and change the font (assuming a set-up like
    Advert Rough where the fonts are spaced with that purpose); multiple weights allow
    the designer to design the outline, not leave it to a dumb algorithm; and the
    different weights provided in a layered scheme are: more fool-proof, in that a
    user is much less likely to apply tracking to a fatter version (since in layering
    the fonts are canned while in outlining they're sort of made by the end-user anyway)
    thus ruining your careful spacing; and being available as different weights, are
    more... convenient!\r\n\r\n> layering is not infinitely adjustable, whereas stroke
    width is.\r\n\r\nTrue, but:\r\n1) It's not hard to provide a finely gradated weight
    range.\r\nAnd hey, people will think they're getting more for the money.  :-)\r\n2)
    There's an upper limit to how much outlining one would use: beyond a certain point
    there's no whitespace left between the letters, so your scheme becomes moot.\r\n\r\n>
    the lower case character shapes and general proportions\r\n> of Softmachine were
    designed specifically to accomodate\r\n> an outline stroke of precise thickness.\r\n\r\n?\r\nHow
    does that jive with your \"infinitely adjustable\"? And how does a user know what
    that precise thickness should be? Don't tell me you expect graphic designers to
    pay attention... and then actually follow advice to boot!  :-/\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    don't get me wrong, outlining is probably a more cost-effective way of getting
    typically-desired results, but it does seem to be more brittle (opposite of robust)
    and less powerful than layering.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-18 04:05:47'
- author:
    name: mjpatrick
    picture: 111908
  body: 'Getting back on topic, I agree the main key here is having the passion as
    so many others mentioned earlier. If you really love what you do and allow that
    creative force driving you, you don''t think much about the time invested. '
  created: '2007-03-18 05:38:23'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Too put this into context, does any of this make it more efficient, so that
    a designer doesn't have to work into the middle of the night?
  created: '2007-03-18 05:58:18'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Dan I think you're referring to something called the 'work/life balance'
    here, and it's something that artisans and craftspeople of all stripes generally
    have a difficulty with. It might sound awful, but there are any number of 'personal
    lifestyle coaches' out there who will take your money in return for telling you
    not to work so late into the night...\r\n\r\nI used to work very hard all day,
    every day, when I was a freelance designer; I still work hard, but nowadays I'm
    more interested in having a workload that's compatible with my life. Having said
    that, a particular project like a typeface deserves to be worked on intensively.\r\n\r\nIf
    you've set yourself a personal deadline about finishing or releasing your type
    design, whilst meeting your other commitments, then pulling a string of all nighters
    is probably the only way it's going to get done."
  created: '2007-03-18 06:21:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"So what\u2019s the scale? What\u2019s reasonable? I understand that it
    takes a long time to create a typeface, but there\u2019s got to be a line somewhere...\"\r\n\r\nOh?
    the only lines I've ever drawn on time and effort end up on my face. The hours
    per day, I see as more related to the physical state, the mental state is an hours
    per career thing, as far as I know. e.g. I finished some fonts last year that
    I started in 1997. This year, I will finish some fonts I started in 1999 and I'm
    starting fonts now that might not be finished until 2011, or so. \r\n\r\nThe big
    thing is to get over hump between rolling eyes, and knowing nods, for support
    on these long typographic trips."
  created: '2007-03-18 13:07:45'
- author:
    name: Space Invader
    picture: 112347
  body: "Greetings everyone!!!\r\n\r\nThis is my first post on this cool website!!!\r\n\r\nI
    work 10 hour days in central London, try not to work weekends but it happens esp
    if there's a deadline looming...!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-18 14:37:43'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Dan, sometimes it is fun to be drawn in to long nights and obsessive sessions,
    other times it is not. If the passion of type is in you, I tihnk you should indulge
    them occasionally. Just like excess, moderation is only healthy in moderation.\r\n\r\nSome
    nights, I am up until 4:30 am, when I've got to bright-eyed and bushy-tailed at
    work in 3 1/2 hours. If I am enjoying AND productive AND have the mental acuity
    to make that time worthwhile, I think thats good. But I can't do or recommend
    it everyday. Everyone has their limits.\r\n\r\nKeep in mind, this is supposed
    to be largely for fun for me.The dry work and the file wrangling is a side affect
    of trying to make something impressive enough to appear as viable product to others.
    IT isn't the type design at all.\r\n\r\nIf I am kerning accents for a language
    I don't speak, or tediously working round a clumsy part of a software-work flow
    by manually repeating an action, I tend to call it quits earlier. I can usually
    do that stuff far faster when I start my work period, and my mood will be better,
    too.\r\n\r\nIf you have a girlfriend, make time for her. If you don't want to,
    and you'd rather do type, why are you (hypothetically) dating? If you are certain
    about type, think about what you want to get out of it. \"Name in lights\", a
    paycheck, the respect of peers, mad experiments, a teaching job, some  cultural
    impact, what? Each of those requires a different level of commitment. Or, more
    precisely, different commitments.\r\n\r\nAs far as the earlier comments about
    creativity under deadlines: A deadline helps to separate the wheat from the chaff
    asap, when a goalless creative exercise might otherwise drag on, hindering following
    ideas. Additionally, creative solutions often come from the limits in place from
    a client. \"Deadline\" creativity's productiveness compliments abstract creativity's
    loftiness."
  created: '2007-03-18 17:23:50'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "<em> And bastardization? Well sure, I didn\u2019t invent rounded type! </em>\r\n\r\nYeah!,
    that's exactly what I'm talking about Nick. Like in every other field of design
    there are those who break new ground and then those who follow (or worse). It's
    the authorship of the rounded type which is at one end of designing type and then
    there is your Softmachine which is at the other end. You know what I mean?\r\n\r\nThe
    guy who created rounded type poured his whole being into breaking new ground in
    the design of type (and I imagin also that his designs spoke of his time, ie Bayer
    and the school of Bauhaus). So when you came up with your Softmachine your design
    effort was far less than his, no offense ok? And from the description you gave
    of vector stroking, can't that be applied to any class of type?\r\n\r\nNick, I
    hold many copyright designs and several industrial design patents. I was given
    my first architectural award when I was twenty-seven and was then labelled avant-garde
    and a visionary. I know first hand (as did my father before me) the price one
    pays to give their life to design/art. And from what I've been able to find out
    about the masters in the design of Type - so did they. They would rather design
    than eat. \r\nAnd since I have just recently been involved in the design of Type
    I have done a couple of font designs (which are no big deal) and I'm currently
    working a bold new method of script type, which I think is a big deal - although
    somewhat unusual.\r\n\r\nDan's question of commitment is not so black and white,
    because as I mentioned before to tweek someone elses work is one level of design
    commitment - and to come up with new forms is an entirely different level of commitment
    to the design of Type. \r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-18 18:57:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Oh, you're an architect...\r\n\r\n> from the description you gave of vector
    stroking,\r\n> can\u2019t that be applied to any class of type?\r\n\r\nYou're
    not paying attention.\r\nRead the Softmachine thread/PDF first.\r\n\r\n> I hold
    many copyright designs and several industrial design patents.\r\n> I was given
    my first architectural award when I was twenty-seven \r\n\r\nIf you're so proud,
    please use your real and full name in your profile.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-18 19:11:37'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "Christ. Another hack architect trying to make 'fonts'. I bet it will be rubbish.\r\n\r\nMuzz"
  created: '2007-03-18 19:14:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>does that jive with your \"infinitely adjustable\"?</em>\r\n\r\nIt's
    true that there is a \"benchmark\" outlining weight for Softmachine, which corresponds
    to the closest distance between characters, carried through for internal counters
    -- and this stroke weight has to be set by eye for a specific type size (not without
    its benefits, for instance making it easy to give the type outline exactly the
    same stroke weight as rules). Nonetheless, the typographer has the option to choose
    absolutely any stroke width, for whatever reason, and there are other thicknesses
    which might suggest themselves, such as the distance between vertical strokes
    in the letters h,m,n and u. Ultimately, for whatever reason a typographer is outlining
    some type, such as to get it to stand out against a disruptive backround, the
    way of working is to adjust the stroke weight till it looks right, and that's
    why stroking is the best way to handle outlining, not layered weights.\r\n\r\nI
    might also add that the kind of gradient filter effects (bevel, dropshadow) in
    the garish \"gel\" specimen I posted above work on plain, not layered type --
    and while this was not my initial anticipation of the type's use, its suitability
    was obvious early on.\r\n\r\nLayout application-generated outlining was behind
    this type from day one, because I've always considered that to be a much better
    way to apply special effects to type, rather than layering differnt fonts -- in
    fact this \"best practice\", initially developed as a faux feature of WP programs
    in the 1980s, was then introduced as a formatting utility via Quark Xtensions
    (Xtensis etc.) and add-on Photoshop filters (eg Alien Skin) in the early '90s,
    before it was \"hard formatted\" into the default menus of Quark, Photoshop, Fireworks,
    InDesign, etc. So that's what I'm playing to, not layers, which is a sort of do-it-yourself
    technique from the late '80s.\r\n\r\n<em>the authorship of the rounded type</em>\r\n\r\nRounded
    letterforms are not a typographic invention, but an imitation of other media.\r\nThis
    could be said of a lot of typographic features, but it's important to distinguish
    the metrical-system dimension of type as being uniquely typographic, and that's
    the design space Softmachine addresses.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Round_6107.png]\r\n\r\nThis
    is the first rounded type I am aware of, from an 1830s specimen of Caslon & Livermore,
    presumably derived from brush lettering. Other non-typographic inspirations of
    rounded lettering are the \"Speedball\" nib, quite literally a rounded shape on
    the end of a pen nib, in the late 19th century. There is also neon signage, and
    Breuer's tubular-framed armchair, both introduced in the 1920s. And the ball-point
    pen (Biro, 1940s) and Rotring + template (1950s).\r\n\r\nIn criticizing my use
    of rounded letter shapes and terminals as unoriginal, you may be confusing form
    with function, which sets the bar impossibly high for originality, as everything
    looks like a bit like something else. The purpose of Softmachine's rounded terminals
    is to facilitate outlining -- by allowing an even stroke between characters, and
    by minimizing the opportunity for pointy artefacts that occur when corners are
    algorithmically enlarged: this is my claim for originality.\r\n\r\nSurely this
    principle -- function not form -- is something you can understand from your experience
    with design patents?\r\n\r\n<em>your design effort was far less than his, no offense
    ok?</em>\r\n\r\nNone taken. I'm in two minds about the \"design effort\" of the
    person who produced that Caslon example. Sure, it was swiped from the signwriters,
    but the type designer had his own problems in making the concept work typographically,
    in terms of fit and colour -- things which signwriters, working large and custom,
    could easily fudge. At any rate, the concept of a rounded type must have been
    quite outrageous at the time, <em>highly</em> original, shall we say. But how
    does that discount the lesser, though quite specific, originality of my repurposing
    of roundedness?"
  created: '2007-03-18 21:15:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I want to take assertiveness lessons from Muzzer :) '
  created: '2007-03-18 21:28:22'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I do not know anyone (and am not sure I've ever known anyone) who works harder
    or longer than Robert Slimbach, over the long run. It's just scary.\r\n\r\nRecently
    I've been working maybe 13-14 hours a day in the last days of trying to finish
    the upright fonts for Hypatia Sans, but I think Miguel has been putting in even
    more hours than that. You know it's bad when somebody works until they just can't
    stay awake, then takes a nap, and gets up and works some more.\r\n\r\nI don't
    know that all this is at all necessary for the general task of making high quality
    typefaces. But I do think that being able to have at least some bursts of a minimum
    of 3-4 hours at a stretch is necessary for most kinds of high-quality typefaces.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-03-19 01:55:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> this is my claim for originality.\r\n\r\nIt's one of two such claims.\r\nThe
    other is the less tenable.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-19 02:33:43'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "So is that hard work, or just a lot hours of work? When I think of hard work,
    I think of breaking out a sweat throwing bales of hay on my farm when I was a
    kid. My dad works hard, 8 hours a day, and has the bad back and aching joints
    to show for it.\r\n\r\nI'm not saying that to undermine the skill needed to design
    type, but it seems that it's one of those things that the more you throw your
    time into it, the more you get out of it. Not that it's particularly \"hard,\"
    per se, but that it takes an incredible amount of time to produce anything worth
    showing.\r\n\r\nAm I totally off base?"
  created: '2007-03-19 06:08:03'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Hiroshige, \r\n\r\nReading over your comments makes me shake my head in wonder
    and pity. Your take is quite superficial I am afraid. The good news is that the
    world of type is a big amazing place and worth spending some time in. Here's hoping
    you take the trip."
  created: '2007-03-19 09:44:15'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Dan, you are still completely on-base with this question IMO; on a good day
    I can break a sweat teaching, but producing a typeface is just really really time-consuming
    ; )\r\n\r\n<em> Hiro \u2013 And from the description you gave of vector stroking,
    can\u2019t that be applied to any class of type?</em>\r\n\r\n<em>Nick S \u2013
    ...initially developed as a faux feature of WP programs in the 1980s, was then
    introduced as a formatting utility via Quark Xtensions (Xtensis etc.) and add-on
    Photoshop filters (eg Alien Skin) in the early \u201990s...</em>\r\n\r\nI was
    so appalled by seeing badly outlined versions of Futura in the early '90s that
    I went and drew up my own version of Futura Inline (\u2013 a face that had existed
    in metal, but had not been digitised or included in any of the standard foundry
    libraries of the time). \r\n\r\nI agree wholeheartedly with Nick for attempting
    to save people from the visible end results of their own ignorance, viz. <em>minimizing
    the opportunity for pointy artefacts that occur when corners are algorithmically
    enlarged</em> and so forth. In that my little effort (a single weight of display
    caps, neither infinite nor adjustable) was not as intelligent or as elegant as
    Nicks, means that it was a labour of love rather than a commercial effort. No
    harm in that; I did it for the sake of the thing itself. All it meant was that
    for a while I would rather have seen it finished than sleep or eat.\r\n\r\nIt
    doesn't suprise me at all to hear that Robert Slimbach works as hard as Thomas
    says he does; may his stamina continue unabated (and yours, Thomas, and yours,
    Miguel)!"
  created: '2007-03-19 10:36:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You do have to work long hours and sometimes it takes a few hours to get
    a flow going. The time flies though! It is not hard work like bailing hay, it
    is tedious work and can be quite frustrating when things are not working but it
    has its own reward. I doubt if most people would feel it was rewarding but those
    who are meant to do it, will surely feel it--maybe after a good nights sleep though
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-19 12:15:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> attempting to save people from the visible\r\n> end results of their own
    ignorance\r\n\r\nIf you really want to do that, you go further down the effort/robustness
    axis: layering. You provide a fine gradation of weights that are spaced to layer
    well, and you force the user to spend the time. More effort, yes, but more robust,
    since it results in something you've designed. And remember, apps can one day
    change some detail of the way they outline type!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-19 14:11:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the effort/robustness axis: layering.</em>\r\n\r\nIf a variety of weights
    were provided for layering, people would use them with the outline tool, as that's
    far simpler.\r\n\r\nThe beauty of using the outline tool is that experimenting
    with different stroke weights and tracking is so simple. This file took me a couple
    of minutes (and that includes experiments not shown), whereas with layering it
    would have been a pain.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Outlines_4031.png]\r\n\r\nHere,
    the top four vary the stroke weight against one tracking value, the bottom three
    vary the tracking against one stroke value.\r\n\r\nThe second example is the benchmark
    stroke thickness (note how the line continues into the counters of \"s\").\r\n\r\nThe
    stroke thickness of the third example is not that great, but there are nonetheless
    still many good ways to stroke and space the face.\r\n\r\nI had considered providing
    more weights of Softmachine, optimized for different stroke thicknesses, but a
    single font didn't seem like such a bad idea for starters. I put the \"extra\"
    work into providing an alternate stylistic set, and full Latin script support,
    rather than more weights. To return to the thread topic, it was enough work making
    one font -- it's unlikely I'll do any more extensions of this typeface (famous
    last words) unless they're commissioned, or it becomes wildly successful.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I just noticed that InD turned off contextual alternates in the bottom example
    (reverting to the default \"l\"), which is tracked at +70. InD made the change
    between +21 and +22."
  created: '2007-03-19 16:37:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If a variety of weights were provided for layering, people\r\n> would use
    them with the outline tool, as that\u2019s far simpler.\r\n\r\nBut at least they'd
    have a choice, and in fact would be much less likely\r\nto use outlining since
    the weight they'd want would already be on hand.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I'm sure you'll
    keep an eye on how people end up actually\r\nusing Softmachine, and will implement
    the weight scheme if needed.\r\n\r\n> experimenting with different stroke weights
    and tracking is so simple.\r\n\r\nUsing Comic Sans instead of Softmachine is simpler
    too.\r\n\r\n> InD made the change ...\r\n\r\nBTW, what would be great (although
    not in the case of Softmachine - I'm thinking more for running text) is if Indy's
    \"optical scaling\" applied its algorithm <cite>after</cite> any manual tracking
    settings; this would make things like \"r\" space well even with tracking. Heck,
    that might even make Helvetica usable for a moderate amount of text! Well, a demi
    weight at a small size at least.  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-19 17:08:38'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "You've started a great thread, Dan! \r\n\r\nI am not as experienced as most
    of the people posting here, but I agree with the comments that mention passion
    and stamina -- when you get into \"the zone\" time just flies, but you need stamina
    for the rote tasks and for all of the times that something isn't quite working.
    But when things do work, then it's very satisfying.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-21 05:37:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...and for all of the times that something isn\u2019t quite working. \"\r\n\r\nRemember,
    frustration is your teacher, not your enemy.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-21 11:38:22'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "The flip side, what's the fastest an entire <em>quality</em> typeface (Latin
    character set) can be created from scratch? None of this Scanfont baloney, but
    the real Bezier editing/kerning/formatting of an actual start-to-finish font.
    Or, what's the fastest design that you've heard of? \r\n\r\nSay, for instance,
    that [[Robert Slimbach]] takes 15 years to create an \r\n\"instant\" masterpiece.
    That's one end of the spectrum. What's the other end?"
  created: '2007-03-22 03:02:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I recently finished two sans serif typefaces in 7 weights each, roman and
    italic, plus a serifed text face -- basic four styles -- all original from scratch,
    for a newspaper, in four months. Launching in May (so no jury decision on quality
    yet). Sixty-hour weeks, but it was winter, and a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
    My \"Guardian\", as it were.\r\n\r\nNext step is to extend them for general release
    in OpenType with CE, Greek, Cyrillic, small caps etc., which will take much longer
    -- especially as it's not commissioned, paying work. \r\n\r\nSo that's the context.
    Adobe first, and now Microsoft with the CT fonts, have raised the bar for character
    count and OT features, and what constitutes a \"quality\" typeface that's ready
    for market. And then there's hinting... It's harder and harder to do it all yourself."
  created: '2007-03-22 03:23:55'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: "In the words of John Dunne, nothing focuses the mind like being hung at dawn.
    Unfortunately, I adhere a little too tightly to this homily at the peril of personal
    work (homily... not sure gallow clinkers would think it so insipirational -- maybe
    gallow humorists). Tangent\\ \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-22 10:58:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Maybe with a slight edit, the gallows humorists would surely find it inspirational:\r\n\r\n\"Unfortunately,
    I feel [so strung up with this homily]...\"\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-22 12:00:59'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Surely Samuel Johnson said that (or similar).\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-03-22 12:53:59'
date: '2007-03-14 18:36:32'
node_type: forum
title: Type Designer's Work Ethic

---
