---
author:
  name: jouto
body: "I am a graphic design student, working on my final study about retro design
  in display fonts. \r\n \r\nI chose this topic because there seems to be a lot of
  new fonts on the market that owe their form to a certain decade or style. Some are
  direct copies of old novelty faces and some have just a hint or feeling of some
  era. I'm focusing especially on display fonts done during the last ten years.\r\n\r\nHere
  I have here some questions to which I would really appreciate some thoughts or opinions:\r\n\r\nWhy
  now? There's no limitations in the forming of letters but still people are interested
  more reviving these old styles. \r\nIs that just the point? Are designers just tired
  of the weird stuff that was made in the 90s?\r\nAre the retro designers all amateurs
  who just make what they think will look nice?\r\nWhat are the reasons for making
  fonts that look old?\r\nWhat problems these retro fonts have?\r\nWhat styles seem
  to be the most reproduced and what styles would you wish someone would digitalize?\r\n\r\nI
  would really like to hear your further thoughts and opinions on the matter, \r\nthat
  would be very helpful.\r\n\r\nThanks!  \r\n\r\nEssi "
comments:
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: 'Retro''s a pretty broad concept. Do you have specific fonts and eras in mind,
    would you share them with us? '
  created: '2007-03-15 12:44:17'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: Nostalgia is in high demand during a time when most everything sucks. The
    decade of George W. Bush and Paris Hilton has very little to recommend it, let
    alone a signature style.
  created: '2007-03-15 13:44:49'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "History is known to repeat itself. Innovation seems to be overrated & after
    all, why change a winning team? Pretty much everything has been done at least
    once by now & the only left to do is to pick up the pieces from the past & -best
    case scenario- make a modern interpretation of them.\r\nOur time is defined by
    ephemeral things; everything has to bring in as much money as possible in a very
    limited period of time. This leads to cheap things (eg. Paris Hilton ;-p ) that
    are bound to be forgotten in just a few weeks/months time. Survival is only for
    the strongest & retro design has already proven its strength. It's an easy answer
    and an only constant in an everchanging world. I blame Brittney!"
  created: '2007-03-15 14:03:24'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Which reminds me of something I wrote sometime:\r\n...\r\nOnce you've got
    it made\r\nthe key to happiness is to sit back\r\nand let history repeat itself\r\nwithout
    mistakes\r\n..."
  created: '2007-03-15 14:10:47'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Reviving old type designs of any sort is nothing new. Now just happens to
    be the first time in history with both tremendous number of designs to revive
    and cheap processes for doing so.\r\n\r\nAlso, I believe that Cerulean is right
    to a degree; nostalgia is just big in general, but IMHO it's because worldwide
    violence and economic uncertainty in the US and Europe make people crave old stuff
    that makes them feel safe."
  created: '2007-03-15 14:16:48'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: "\"and let history repeat itself\r\nwithout mistakes\"\r\n\r\nHumans have
    been around a long, long time. When is the \"no mistakes\" thing supposed to happen?"
  created: '2007-03-15 14:16:52'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "It's just an extract from a text, Bruce. And it's actually about someone
    making the same mistake twice. It's pretty much human nature to keep making the
    same mistakes (because we always want more & better things), but from those mistakes,
    by now we should have learned not to make them again (which I described in the
    following part):\r\n...\r\nbut know that you would burn your fingers\r\nif you
    were to flirt with temptation\r\n...\r\nPeople always get too greedy to ever really
    be satisfied with what they have. It's hard to explain from just this little extract,
    but mankind's returning mistake is that we always try to get a little more instead
    of trying to find happiness in content.\r\nMaybe that philosophy is reflected
    in retro design as well, history being the inspiration for retro design & the
    changes made to it expressing our desire for something more/different. Although
    in retro design, I would not describe it as being a mistake, so maybe that's were
    history repeats itself without mistakes?\r\nBesides, it clearly states \"once
    you've got it made\" & since we haven't quite made it as far as living peacefully
    in harmony goes yet, we're merely one step in the process of getting there (if
    we ever even will)."
  created: '2007-03-15 14:38:32'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "You might find Nick Shinn's article on the persistence of Helvetica and other
    long-in-tooth type useful. Here's an excerpt:\r\n\r\n\"Creative strategy has changed,
    too. Branding in the global corporate\r\nera eschews the slightest quirk. Everyone
    wants to come\r\nacross as MegaCorp Inc, category leader, last man standing, all\r\nthings
    to all people. For this reason, Neue Helvetica is marketed\r\nas \u201Ctimeless
    and neutral\u201D, appealing to art directors who would\r\nrather not use typeface
    to differentiate their clients in the marketplace.\r\n\r\n\"For all these reasons,
    the legacy sans faces \u2014 and Helvetica in\r\nparticular \u2014 have come to
    dominate the typographic landscape.\r\nThey are popular not because they are appropriate
    to the task at\r\nhand but because they pander to the authority of mass fashion.\"\r\n\r\n...and
    a link:\r\n\r\nhttp://shinntype.com/Stories/Uniformity.pdf"
  created: '2007-03-15 17:06:31'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Essi,\r\n\r\nTo be honest, it sounds like you're callin' me out but I'm surprised
    you didn't e-mail me directly. As the proprietor of the Font Diner (http://www.fontdiner.com)
    for going on 11 years now, I'm precisely the fellow your talking about . . .\r\n\r\nAs
    to your questions . . .\r\n\r\n<cite>Why now? There\u2019s no limitations in the
    forming of letters but still people are interested more reviving these old styles.</cite>\r\n\r\nCall
    it personal taste . . . I've always been fascinated with the stylized aesthetic
    of bygone eras and I identify most of them specifically by the type in use during
    that time and its method of use. The only reason I create retro display work is
    because its what I am most passionate about and reflects my personal taste.\r\n\r\n<cite>Is
    that just the point? Are designers just tired of the weird stuff that was made
    in the 90s?</cite>\r\n\r\nPrior to my own discovery of retro, the only specific
    retro type available from the 90s was little scripty gems by Leslie Cabarga released
    through Font Bureau, otherwise I can't remember never NOT liking Futura.\r\n\r\nI
    think in the early 90s it could have been said there was no specific retro movement
    but nowadays, I feel there actually is a definable retro movement and type designers
    of today cater to that vs. early on they were helping define it . . .\r\n\r\n<cite>Are
    the retro designers all amateurs who just make what they think will look nice?</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    sure hope not . . . I guess this is my profession so I'm a professional retro
    type designer. And yes, I make what I like because it appeals to me, AND there
    are many folks it also appeals to so when I decide the next typeface to create,
    it's always with both in mind . . .\r\n\r\n<cite>What are the reasons for making
    fonts that look old?</cite>\r\n\r\nIf you're referring to distressed 'beat up'
    type, there is an inherent connection between the erosion on a physical object
    due to its environment and the sense of its age, like wrinkles . . .\r\n\r\n<cite>What
    problems these retro fonts have?</cite>\r\n\r\nExplain?\r\n\r\n<cite>What styles
    seem to be the most reproduced and what styles would you wish someone would digitalize?</cite>\r\n\r\nThere
    aren't many styles left undigitized and fewer still as the days go on and the
    retro aesthetic appeals to more audiences . . .\r\n\r\nAgain, I may be completely
    offbase with my reply because you failed to clearly identify what you consider
    to be 'retro' display fonts . . . My work is primarily 1930s through the 1960s
    but you may be looking at a different frame of reference . . .\r\n\r\nStuart :D"
  created: '2007-03-15 23:57:46'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Cerulean hit it on the nose but I think it started well before the present
    era. I think it started in pop culture with Star Wars.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-03-16 01:37:52'
- author:
    name: jouto
  body: "Thanks for the great answers!\r\n\r\nMaybe I need to clarify some things
    about this work. It's not a study about certain fonts or styles, it's more about
    the reviving of fonts and styles in general.\r\nPersonally I think the word 'retro'
    is problematic because its definition is a bit blurry, but it seems to be the
    only word I get even close. What I here mean by retro is all the display fonts
    which are done recently (1998-2007) but have copied the style, more or less, from
    the past (1900-1980, somehow 90s is not yet retro). I have happily ruled out the
    odd reviving of blackletter in the hip hop scene.\r\n\r\nThe whole topic is really
    vast but I'm trying to get the most important factors of the 'retro display font
    phenomenon' in a nutshell, like: the history of reviving, reasons for reviving,
    retro designers' resources for inspiration, classifying of retro fonts (this is
    a tricky one), is there certain forms for certain times, how long this retro fashion
    might last, the most copied styles and so on. I have managed to write the history
    part but for the other stuff there's not much references. So I'm more than happy
    to hear thoughts on these things. \r\n\r\nI made one retro font in a typography
    course in my school and my teacher started to wonder how the retro stuff is so
    popular nowadays even in font design. That inspired me to take the issue under
    a magnifying glass, question the whole thing, organize it and study it. I would
    like to find some reasons why so many people find old styles appealing, It can't
    be only a matter of personal taste when the same taste is shared so widely. Although
    it might be useless trying to find the ultimate reason, when these designs often
    develop from nostalgia and from the cycle of fashion, but still I feel there might
    be something that has driven our visual taste to the point where past designs
    are more interesting than fresh innovations. \r\n\r\nWhat I'd like to find is
    examples of the new display fonts with their origins, and try to compare the old
    and new version. Also I would like comments from the people who make the fonts,
    like: how they started to make revivals and why? What are their favorite styles
    and why? Also comments from the people who use the fonts would be very welcome.
    It's interesting to hear why and when they use revivals. \r\n\r\nSometimes it
    even seems like some 'authorities' are (or were) against the retro fonts, they
    are too easy and they appeal to the masses. I guess it's part of the democratization
    of font design, there is little room for authorities when amateurs upload their
    fonts to web. But somehow now it's more acceptable because the retro fonts are
    getting more and more professional. Hmm, well I don't have much to back that statement
    up, but that's where I need your opinions!\r\n\r\nWrite what comes to mind about
    the things I've said above.\r\nIf you feel like writing more about the topic,
    please email me directly.\r\nStuart,  your email would be worth gold!\r\n\r\nEssi"
  created: '2007-03-16 13:54:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Essi,\r\nRetro is far easier now in the digital era because you can research
    stuff in minutes on the web and the digitising tools are so much faster than doing
    things by hand. That makes the means readily available. Before digital, lettering
    styles were copied and used in more current works. Samples were copied by Photostat
    and reworked with pen and brush.  Much of the display type that you refer to as
    being retroed was actually much older hand lettering that was made into a typeface
    in more recent years. Stuart from FontDiner has done a wonderful job of this.\r\n\r\nI
    think more retro work is done today because we have the means to do it well and
    quickly. I also think it fills a market niche for art directors who are using
    older times as venues to create an atmosphere for current products. If you have
    a national chain of diners who try to pose a 50's feeling, you want type for menus
    and ads that fits the bill. You also have high-tech stuff going on that prompts
    modern design as well. I don't think you can make a value judgement that says
    making retro fonts is some kind of easy way out. It isn't. It is just an area
    of the market that has customers so why not do it if you have a passion for it.
    The value judgements come only in how well it is done. Personally, I am more passionate
    about coming up with my own notions for new type but that is just me. I probably
    would not fulfill the same market needs as Stuart but that is what makes the World
    more interesting. Everyone can work on what they feel comfortable with and the
    customers get a broad range of choices.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-16 16:02:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "As Mark infers in referencing my Helvetica article, Helvetica is indeed a
    retro face, and classic Modernism (the historical movement) is retro too, which
    is ironically appropriate for post-modern times. So until we're better able to
    draw a distinction between historical Modernism and being contemporarily modern,
    and as long as we find post-modernism unpalatably radical, retro will prevail.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nTaking
    a narrow focus on a specific circumstance (and a point I didn't mention in my
    Helvetica piece): news media channels foundry typeface development, and that's
    a lucrative market for independent foundries.\r\n\r\nThis involves a font development
    process that several foundries use, because it makes good business sense. It works
    like this: one of the major sectors in commissioning typefaces is peridiocal publishers.
    More so than corporations, I would say. So what happens is that a publication
    is being redesigned (or launched), and a new typeface is called for.\r\n\r\nWhy?
    Because a new typeface helps to focus design efforts, and helps the product stand
    out from the crowd in a text-heavy medium, especially at awards competitions.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    not only is news publishing a conservative medium, but its business culture is
    also conservative, especially in the USA. So the kinds of faces that are being
    commissioned tend to be conservative revivals.\r\n\r\nThese faces find their way
    into a foundry's retail catalogue, after a period of exclusivity.\r\n\r\nCertainly,
    having one's R&D paid for is an offer that's hard to refuse, with the added benefit
    that the publication environment adds an extraordinary discipline to the design
    process.\r\n\r\nBut the upshot is that designers who might otherwise be excogitating
    original types are distracted. The retail market is a speculative proposition
    at the best of times.\r\n\r\nAnother example of \"follow the market\" is the demand
    for script fonts. Quite a different beast than news publishing. When it comes
    to developing script fonts, it's much easier to copy the past, because the professional
    skill of <em>slick</em> custom lettering has ceased to exist as a part of the
    graphics industry. There is, quite simply, no contemporary culture of slick script
    lettering. Well, perhaps that's unfair to those who do still practice the skill,
    but there are only a few of them, it's not like the 1950s when hand lettered scripts
    were an integral part of graphic production.\r\n\r\nDespite all this, there are
    a great many original types being published by independent foundries, and part
    of this may be that the demand for the classics (Garamond, Bodoni, etc.) is amply
    catered to by their massive distribution in software bundles with major applications
    and operating systems.\r\n\r\nFinally, there is the design philosophy espoused
    by many typographers, that new faces are not to be used, because their personality
    gets in the way of the art direction. In other words, the old faces have had the
    novelty worn off, enabling \"pure design\". This concept leads comfortably to
    <a href=\"http://www.studio-gs.com/default.html\">default system design.</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-16 18:15:39'
- author:
    name: bembo
  body: "I think it would really help if you listed some of the typefaces you are
    talking about. I am confused on your post, or maybe you are a little confused.
    First you said something retro was in the 90's, and now the 1900's.... \r\n\r\nOff
    the top of my head, Baskerville comes to mind as a classic typeface, which was
    made in the later 1700's, that is still used today by many graphic designers.
    Infact it can still look completely modern and sleek when used today. Probably
    more modern looking than any crazy starwars super future regular.\r\n\r\nThink
    about the IBM logo. Paul Rand used a \"retro\" egyptian slab typeface for the
    leader in technology and computers. Does anyone think of IBM as retro?"
  created: '2007-03-16 18:17:36'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Anyone who remembers IBM for its typewriters could certainly think of it as
    retro, yes.
  created: '2007-03-16 18:43:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What Paul Rand was pushing for in that logo was the punchcard effect of the
    small rectangular counters aas being the modern product emphasis and the slab
    serif as a reference to the old business machines which gave IBM its birth.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-16 19:03:45'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "\"Post-modernism is modernism with the optimism taken out.\"\r\n- Robert
    Hewison\r\n\r\nHe wrote that in 1987.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-03-16 19:22:15'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: 'Baskerville, as "Bembo" mentions, is a great example. Not only has it been
    revived more or less faithfully, it has also been released in versions that are
    influenced by contemporary type trends: ITC Baskerville (with a touch of the big
    x-height ''70s/''80s) and Mrs. Eaves (a postmodern, idiosyncratic take).'
  created: '2007-03-16 20:56:01'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Paul, thanks for the Robert Hewison quote; you just made my day ; )\r\n\r\nStuart
    I think your reply to the original post was right on the money."
  created: '2007-03-18 06:29:07'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: "Essi\r\nRetro design for me consists of American types for display from the
    19th century, mostly wood. Wood was used for large display because it was considerably
    lighter than metal, fairly easy to make. Wooden type was very popular in the middle
    to late 19th century and into the early part of the 20th. I like the types because
    the designs are quite unique, rather quirky, and today, still very useful for
    display. Many like the types in digital form though some still use original wood.
    Just Google wood type and you\u2019ll see what I mean. \r\nJordan Davies"
  created: '2007-03-19 20:20:58'
date: '2007-03-15 12:32:44'
node_type: forum
title: thoughts on retro design

---
