---
author:
  name: Nick Job
  picture: 110778
body: "Thought I'd share this.\r\n\r\nI was trying to work out how much thicker a
  [[bold]] [[weight]] should be compared to its regular.\r\n\r\nI decided to do some
  research to help, looking at a fairly arbitrary group of 12 font families* (mostly
  Microsoft) and worked out the ratio between lower case thin and thick downstrokes
  in each case and then took an average of the 12.\r\n\r\nIt turns out that the ratios
  (regular:bold) varied between 0.52 (not enough difference to be effective) and 0.67
  (too much difference), but the average was <em>0.6216</em>.\r\n\r\nThis turned out
  to be almost identical to \u03A6 (<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Golden_ratio\">golden
  section</a>)\r\n\r\nCoincidence?\r\n\r\nIncidentally, this number is also the ratio
  between subsequent Fibonacci numbers as the numbers get big.\r\n\r\nSince most typeface
  families have just a single weight in between a regular and its bold, then it follows
  that the thickness between subsequent weights should increase in increments of \u221A\u03C6
  = 1.27214 (where \u03C6 = \u03A6 + 1) since, using Luc(as) de Groot's method of
  finding the weight optically midway between two others, m\xB2 = b\xB2 - r\xB2 (where
  r = regular strokewidth, b = bold strokewidth and m = optical medium strokewidth).
  Let's suppose r = 1 and b = \u03C6, then m\xB2 = \u03C6\xB2 - 1\xB2, but since \u03C6\xB2
  - 1\xB2 = \u03C6 then m = \u221A\u03C6.\r\n\r\nIt also follows from this that if
  you have a series of weights 35, 45, 55, 65, 75 and 85 (where 55 is regular and
  75 is bold) that the thickness of 75 = the thickness of 35 + the thickness of 55;
  and the thickness of 85 = the thickness of 45 + the thickness of 65. \r\n\r\nYou've
  got to love maths. Any thoughts?\r\n\r\n\r\n* Myriad, Calibri, Cambria, Constantia,
  Corbel, Arial, Georgia, Palatino, Trebuchet, Verdana, Helvetica and Ocean Sans"
comments:
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "When I first got to Typophile I was looking at & experimenting with this
    & I found that while yes, there is definitely something there - like all things
    in type - it's just one of several factors. No formula can replace the eye. And
    there are many glyph specific & style specific issues all of which must trump
    the formula in specific areas. The hyper bold & the hyper thin also impose their
    own agendas. The hyper thin are difficult because of point placement issues and
    the hyper bold must be distorted beautifully/grotesquely in ways that the formula
    doesn't help with at all. AND if you have a font which is screen specific or is
    meant to be used in a particular media that may trump the value of the formula
    again - to the point where it may not be useful anymore. \r\n\r\nI rememeber the
    excitement I felt at starting to get ahold of this pattern! Anyway, what I mean
    to say is I hope this doesn't feel like cold water. I will try to find the thread. "
  created: '2007-03-16 20:33:44'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Here is my old thread. Note the exceptions! Also note jfp's extemely nice
    examples.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/2811\r\n\r\nHere are more in no particular
    order:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/31522\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/170\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/29389\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/4314\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/31888\r\n\r\nAlso:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.letterror.com/code/superpolator/\r\n\r\nAlso:\r\n\r\nIf
    you put this in your Browser where a URL would go you can rapidly serach typophile
    fot things like 'Making a bold weight' or whatever else you like.\r\n\r\njavascript:void(q=prompt('Search%20Typophile:',''));if(q)void(location.href='http://www.google.com/search?q=site:typophile.com'+'%20'+escape(q))"
  created: '2007-03-16 21:05:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I remember when I thought golden section weirdos were just crazy designers
    who read some funny old book and lost it. Now I read stuff like this, smile, and
    slowly take in the ancient workings of the cosmos.
  created: '2007-03-16 21:29:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I heard Lucas de Groot give a talk at the TDC in January. His theory is much
    more elaborate than what he has on the web site. He takes into account the influence
    of multiple horizontals--eg e,E on what you can do with bolding, and has formulas
    for the whole thing.\r\n\r\nI was impressed with how well he has thought this
    out, but I didn't take notes. As he gave it out in a public lecture, perhaps he
    will share his full theory, if you ask him. "
  created: '2007-03-16 21:51:05'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> You\u2019ve got to love maths\r\n\r\nBTW, if you like this stuff read \"Raster
    Imaging and Digital Typography\" (+ a lot of references.)"
  created: '2007-03-16 23:20:21'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Bill, Will you try to bring back some more snippets from your memeory? I
    am really interested. I have never been able to contact Lucas to ask for more
    info. '
  created: '2007-03-17 06:25:08'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Interpolation theory at <a href=\"http://www.lucasfonts.com\" target=\"_blank\">http://www.lucasfonts.com</a>\r\n--
    click \"continue\"\r\n-- then click \"information\" (leftside menu, bottom)\r\n--
    then click \"interpolation theory\" (first section, last link)\r\n\r\nHere's a
    <a href=\"http://www.lucasfonts.com/lucasfnt/infos/fredtemp/interpol.html\" target=\"_blank\">direct
    link</a>.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-17 11:10:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Karsten, your link is what I referred to as \"on the web site.\" There is
    a lot more to the theory, as I said. de Groot regards that page as quite inadequate.
    \r\n\r\n>some more snippets \r\n\r\nWell, I only remember the general ideas. Since
    I am not focused on sans and am not totally convinced about the formulas, I was
    not concerned that much with the actual formulas.  \r\n\r\nHe started out by saying
    that if you to the most obvious thing, and add a certain fixed amount to each
    width to get the next heavier weight, it will look wrong. The problem is that
    then that if you have a series of say 3 weights, then the ratio of a the lightest
    to b the middle will be different from the ratio of b to c. To look good, he thinks,
    you want the ratios of a to b and b to c need to be the same. \r\n\r\nThat idea
    is the basis of his formula on the web site. He has generalized that formula to
    a formula that gives you the relative weights of n interpolated weights, given
    the extremes. \r\n\r\nBut he also has a formula for how the horizontals should
    vary along with the verticals, depending on whether the glyph has 1 (T) 2 (D)
    3 (E) or 4 (@) horizontals.   "
  created: '2007-03-17 16:04:55'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Hello Bill, I must have missed the second sentence in your previous post.
    As to mere interpolation, many of the more intimidating formulas can be derived
    from the pieces on his website. I saw a talk he gave recently, and the part about
    how to treat horizontals is really fascinating! Though I tried to make notes,
    I wasn't fast enough ...
  created: '2007-03-17 17:35:53'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I think I am starting to be able to intuitively guess where Lucas is going....
    Still, I second Karsten's request. Bill if you could go over that again, that
    would be great. Feel free to spice it with your own perspective as well! Karsten,
    can you contact Lucas?
  created: '2007-03-17 17:41:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">can be derived\r\n\r\nYes the formula for n interpolated weights can be
    derived from the formula for three weights. An exercise left to the student :)
    \r\n\r\nThe stuff about horizontals introduces new ideas, though, so there's new
    information there. I also didn't get that so clearly. I probably heard the same
    talk as Karsten, and it flew by pretty fast, and I wasn't even trying to take
    notes. \r\n\r\nI did get the problem he is addressing with his formulas, though.
    If you have a lower case c, and fatten the horizontals a certain amount, then
    try to apply the same to a lower case e, you are going to get into trouble on
    heavier weights because the counters will start to get too small and clott up.
    So if you want a rule, then you are going to have to include the number of horizontals
    as a variable. \r\n\r\nAs to my own perspective, I am personally concerned more
    with the question of needed contrast between regular and bold, and in the adjustment
    of optical sizes, as I haven't yet focused on the multi-weight family. \r\n\r\nBut
    to get back to Nick Job's original post, the number of 52% bolder seems to me
    may be misleading. It might be that this is too much for a bold weight in a serif
    font that is going to match with text, eg as a side head. And maybe too little
    for a headline. \r\n\r\nFor example, Minion semi-bold n stem is 39% wider than
    the regular. The Minion bold is 62% greater than the regular. With Times the bold
    is 65% greater than the regular. If you average the weights of the bold and semi-bold
    of Minion, you get 50.5%, close to your number, but I am concerned that this may
    not work well for either purpose.\r\n\r\nBy the way the relation of Minion semi
    bold and bold, 39/62, also is not a golden ratio, but also not that far off :)
    \ \r\n\r\nAlso I am a bit infected with Bringhurst's view that most bolds are
    too bold. \r\n\r\nI don't claim to know the answers here, I'm just asking. "
  created: '2007-03-17 18:29:12'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Thanks Bill!
  created: '2007-03-17 21:31:15'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I have an older version of the Luc(as) de Groot graphic which contains Dutch
    text that is somewhat different from the English. The Dutch text reads: \"Het
    optisch midden tussen twee gewichten van een lettertype light niet in het mathematisch
    midden. Een reeks van gewichten wordt opgebouwd volgens de interpolatiecurve.\"
    \r\n\r\nTranslated: \"The optical middle between two weights of a letter type
    doesn't lie at the mathematical middle.  A range of weights is built up according
    to the interpolation corve.\" \r\n\r\nIn other words the text on the site misses
    the preamble.\""
  created: '2007-03-17 22:37:19'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>Yes the formula for n interpolated weights can be derived from the
    formula for three weights. An exercise left to the student :)</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    seems that all the formulae of the <cite>Interpolation Theory</cite> can be derived
    from a very simple principle: That of <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geometric_progression\">geometric
    progression</a>.\r\nThe <cite>Interpolation Theory</cite> simply says: \"The stem
    weights are to represent a geometric sequence.\" Nothing more, nothing less. Sounds
    less scary and complicated when it's put in words rather than a formula, doesn't
    it?\r\n\r\nHowever, I see one weakness in treating the stem weight as an absolute
    value between zero and infinity. I suggest to define \"weight\" not as stem weight
    but as black versus white, which means a number between zero (no weight, just
    white) and one (the point when the counters and white space becomes zero and we
    have 100% black.)\r\nThis would reflect that the geometric series gives nice relations
    only in the lighter weights whereas in the black regions a slight increase in
    stem weight can have a significant effect on the \"colour\" of the font."
  created: '2007-03-17 23:04:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks, Tim. That's quite right about the stem widths. \r\n\r\nDe Groot's
    formula a = b x b / c can also be written a/b = b/c . In other words, the ratios
    between successive terms is the same--the defining feature of a geometric progression.
    \r\n\r\nAnd that's de Groot's basic  point in words: don't do successive weights
    by adding a constant--an arithmetic progression--but by having the ratios between
    successive weights the same--a geometric progression. \r\n\r\nNo doubt a geometric
    progression makes successive weights in a sans *specimen* look nice. But it doesn't
    answer the question which Nick asked, which is how big a jump between weights
    is best, nor the general question what weights are needed or best for use as type
    on the page. \r\n\r\nAlso the issue of bolding horizontals and curves seems to
    me a more complex issue, more resistant to simple formulas.\r\n "
  created: '2007-03-18 14:00:59'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: To paraphrase Duke Ellington, "If it looks good, it is good".
  created: '2007-03-18 14:10:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">If it looks good, it is good\r\n\r\nJames, that is certainly true for type,
    but the question is, looks good in what context, for what purpose? \r\n\r\nIf
    I remember rightly, you wrote somewhere before on typophile that your guideline
    is to do a weight that looks good for text, one slightly bolder that works as
    text in white on black, and then a semi-bold and bold that work in relation to
    these two. What it you who wrote that?\r\n\r\nI'd be interested in whether you
    think of the utility of the bolds and semi-bolds that Adobe does, eg, as I mentioned
    for the case of Minion. Are the bolds actually useful? For what purposes?\r\n\r\nFor
    your own Rawlinson, you have four weights. Regular, Medium, Bold and Heavy. Did
    you design these with specific purposes in mind? Did you follow the principle
    I mentioned earlier of designing for regular, reversed, etc.?"
  created: '2007-03-18 14:29:40'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I did write that, and it applies to serif families I've designed more or
    less. I think that is what I had in mind when I designed Rawlinson.\r\n\r\nAs
    to commenting on Adobe's work, or others, I have to honestly say that I do not
    look at any contemporary type designer's work. I am not a graphic designer, so
    I do not use type in that way. I spend many hours a working on my type, the last
    thing I want to do when I'm finished for the day is look at other peoples type.\r\n\r\nJames\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-18 14:52:51'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>Also the issue of bolding horizontals and curves seems to me a more
    complex issue, more resistant to simple formulas.</cite>\r\n\r\nI agree. And where
    would be the benefit of complicated formulas? If we need a special formula for
    the curves, a special formula for the horizontals of the E and so on there is
    no point in having formulas at all.\r\n\r\nI think mathematics is not a suitable
    means of <cite>defining</cite> shapes but it can help us <cite>process</cite>
    manually designed shapes, like in MM interpolation, for example.\r\n\r\n<cite>No
    doubt a geometric progression makes successive weights in a sans *specimen* look
    nice. But ...</cite>\r\n\r\nI totally agree. In fact, sequences with very close
    \"pairs\" of similar boldness (like FF Info) can make sense although to a very
    high degree they do not comply with the Interpolation Theory."
  created: '2007-03-18 14:58:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\u201CIf it looks good, it is good\u201D.\r\n\r\nWord!\r\n\r\nWe always have
    to come back to how the type is intended to be used. If the weights are there
    to look like a pretty and perfect progression when appearing together on a type
    specimen sheet, that is one thing. If the weights are there to function as text,
    reversed text, subhead distinction, and display distinction, it is another thing.
    All of these wonderful mathematical explanations and methods are terrific for
    academic discussion and may help us see what could be lurking beneath the core
    of our vision but, in the end, I don't see how it makes the design process any
    faster or easier than just using your eyes. There is a difference between the
    intellectual discussion of type design process and the actual doing of it. This
    was a wonderful thesis project and fascinating reading but I don't see how I personally
    would apply it to doing my own work.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-18 15:07:28'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "\r\nI have just uploaded a document that explains the mathematical system
    for how I generate my intermediate instances:\r\nhttp://tim-ahrens.de/type/Tim%20Ahrens%20-%20Partial%20Extrapolation.pdf\r\n\r\nIt
    is not very elaborate but I hope the point comes across.\r\n\r\n<cite>I don\u2019t
    see how it makes the design process any faster or easier than just using your
    eyes.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe theories do not make anything faster - they need implementation.
    And theories that cannot be implemented are pointless, I agree."
  created: '2007-03-18 15:31:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks for the link Tim, I'll take a look at it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-18 16:25:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "That's interesting Tim, thanks. \r\n\r\nThis brings to mind the <a href=\"http://www.letterror.com/code/superpolator/\">Superpolator</a>
    developed by the LettError folks. \r\n\r\nOn Thursday I heard Christian Schwartz
    talk at the TDC about the new <a href=\"http://www.christianschwartz.com/guardian.shtml\">Guardian
    typefaces</a> that he and Paul Barnes developed. This was a massive project ending
    up with 200 faces. \r\n\r\nWhen he was asked about how he did the huge number
    of weights he said he used Robofog, but now that there was a much better program,
    the Superpolator, and he would certainly use that today. Afterwards I was talking
    to Hanes Famira  who also praised it as extremely accessible and easy to use,
    and more powerful than multiple masters. \r\n\r\nI am thinking I will be able
    to benefit from some interpolation program pretty soon, and wonder if people have
    experience using and could compare using the blend tool in Font Lab, multiple
    masters, and Superpolater?  "
  created: '2007-03-18 17:53:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Is Superpolater a PC only program?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-18 17:57:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'It''s a Mac only interface, as they explain on the site. '
  created: '2007-03-18 17:59:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Whoops, I didn't see your link. That color just fades into the page.\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-18 19:12:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "I understand (the maths at least) from Lucas de Groot's site how an optical
    \"halfway\" weight can be established by b\xB2 = ac (where a = regular stem, b
    = medium stem and c = bold stem thickness), although I misquoted it as a\xB2 +
    b\xB2 = c\xB2 which is Pythagoras' theorem because I wasn't really concentrating!\r\n\r\nI
    also understand that individual letters (such as e) impose crazy complications
    on the process. I struggle getting bolds and heavies to look right. The heavier
    it gets the harder it becomes. I also understand that there is a problem with
    this whole process at the thin and, particularly, the fat ends of a typeface family.\r\n\r\nNevertheless,
    the real question was <em>\"How much thicker a bold weight should be compared
    to its regular?\"</em>\r\n\r\nWhat I noticed from my 'research' (which I know
    was not thorough) was that as I added more regular/bold examples to the list,
    the closer the average got to \u03A6. \r\n\r\nJames, I completely agree with you
    and the Duke that \u201CIf it looks good, it is good\u201D. But what I found was
    that when I used \u03A6, it looked better than the proportions that I was using.
    I need a lot of help and if maths helps me I'm happy to use it. I want to know
    how to make it look good/better, I have no problem with your assertion, it's getting
    there that I don't know how to do!\r\n\r\nIncidentally, I realise there was a
    slight flaw in my explanantion: <em>It turns out that the ratios (regular:bold)
    varied between 0.52 (not enough difference to be effective) and 0.67 (too much
    difference), but the average was 0.6216.</em> Of course, the smaller the ratio
    (regular:bold), the larger the difference between the weights (so the two comments
    in parentheses above are the wrong way round).\r\n\r\nBill, using your example
    figures from Minion, if the regular width was 1, then I assume you mean that the
    semibold is 1.39 and the bold was 1.65. It follows that the ratio I am looking
    at for regular to bold = 1/1.62 = 0.617 (which is very near \u03A6). In these
    terms, the ratio of the semibold to the bold = 1.39/1.62 = 0.858 * (nowhere near
    \u03A6 and far too large to provide a sufficient contrast to be used as a regular/bold
    complement together in text). \r\n\r\n*The relation of Minion semibold and bold
    is not 39/62 but 1.39/1.62\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-18 21:54:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">not 39/62 but 1.39/1.62\r\n\r\nYeah, I was comparing the excess over the
    regular, which is probably meaningless--hence the smiley. \r\n\r\nBut my question
    concerned the utility of the Adobe Semi-Bold vs the Bold. To me the Semi-Bold
    looks better within running text--a side head, a term to be defined, beginning
    of a list, etc.--and that doesn't have the golden ratio, but significantly less
    contrast. "
  created: '2007-03-18 22:20:15'
date: '2007-03-16 15:28:11'
title: Golden Section as a method for finding regular and bold complements

---
