---
author:
  name: RachelR
body: "The font I'm working on, I wanted to have an alternative \"i\", so I used the
  salt feature. I have two classes, \"i\" and \"salt\", containg the glyphs to change.\r\n\r\n<code>\r\nfeature
  salt {\r\n  sub @i by @salt ;\r\n} salt;\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nFirst of all, is this
  the correct way to go ? \r\n\r\nEverything works great within Fontlab in the opentype
  window, but how do I get it to work in Adobe Indesign or other applications. The
  opentype menu doesn't seem to have any options to use the alternative glyphs.\r\n\r\n
  [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture1_4659.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Village
  body: "Rachel, you should avoid the salt feature, which is not a plain 1:1 GSUB
    lookup. As salt is explained on the Adobe OT Resources page:\r\n\r\nThe salt table
    maps GIDs for default forms to one or more GIDs for corresponding stylistic alternatives.
    While many of these substitutions are one-to-one (GSUB lookup type 1), others
    require a selection from a set (GSUB lookup type 3). The manufacturer may choose
    to build two tables (one for each lookup type) or only one which uses lookup type
    3 for all substitutions. \r\n\r\nWhat you're working with is a GSUB lookup type
    1, but of a non-standard kind. In other words, it's not a calt, hist, titl, or
    swsh. In order for your feature to work in less-OpenType-knowledgeable apps, such
    as InDesign CS1 you are using, you should use one of the available features, such
    as titl, and duplicate your feature as a Stylistic Set: SS01. SSes are accessible
    by InDesign CS2 and Apple's TextEdit, but not Illustrator CS2 for example.\r\n\r\nSo,
    watch out for salt. Until the implementation of the lookup type 3 is sorted out,
    stay away from it."
  created: '2007-03-20 17:14:06'
- author:
    name: RachelR
  body: "Village, \r\n\r\nThanks for the advise, so is it possible to do what I'm
    trying to do  - have alternative glyphs. If it is whats, the best way to go about
    it.\r\n\r\nI'm new to opentype, so if someone could explain this process that
    would be great."
  created: '2007-03-20 17:58:37'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: I don't know if this is apples to apples but I recently finished a job with
    Apex New and used the search and replace to sub in the alternate "a" "g" and "y".
  created: '2007-03-20 18:25:56'
- author:
    name: Village
  body: "Rachel, what you're doing is fine, but you should choose a different feature;
    one which is supported by all of the applications you want to use the font in.\r\n\r\nI
    screengrabbed all of the OT interfaces from the CS2 apps. You can view them here:\r\nhttp://vllg.com/files/cs2/\r\n\r\nI
    would nominate Titling Alternates in your case.\r\n\r\nfeature titl { # Titling
    Alternates\r\n# Latin\r\nsub i by i.alt;\r\n} titl;\r\n\r\nAnd use a stylistic
    set too:\r\n\r\nfeature ss01 { # Alternate lowercase i\r\n# Latin\r\nsub i by
    i.alt;\r\n} ss01;\r\n\r\nI believe that you need to have a GPOS feature - kern,
    for example - in the compiled OT file in order for the GSUBs to work.\r\n\r\nGood
    luck."
  created: '2007-03-20 18:30:36'
- author:
    name: Village
  body: Jupiterboy, you could have used the Stylistic Set 01 for schoolbook forms
    of a g and y.
  created: '2007-03-20 18:33:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I second chester's advice.\r\nI put the alternate set in all three of salt,
    titl, and ss01, that way it is accessible in as many past and present versions
    of different software."
  created: '2007-03-20 19:50:47'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I'm stuck in the digital mud of CS1. I'd have to get a new wide format printer
    if I jumped forward at this point. Believe me I searched for a way to pick up
    the alternates automatically.\r\n\r\nAnyway, the internal museum design staff
    didn't feel it was worth keeping this stylistic convention that was set in the
    catalogue, so only my wall texts had the alternates. Chester?\u2014I think those
    three alt characters really change the feel of the face\u2014nice work."
  created: '2007-03-20 19:57:11'
- author:
    name: RachelR
  body: "Once again Typophile comes through with the answers, thanks everyone.\r\n\r\nNick
    when you say you put the alternate set in all three of salt, titl, and ss01. Do
    you mean choose one of salt, titl or ssO1, or use them all.\r\n\r\nThanks again
    everyone."
  created: '2007-03-20 20:08:44'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: Based on <a href="http://www.typotheque.com/fonts/opentype_feature_support/">http://www.typotheque.com/fonts/opentype_feature_support/</a>
    I'd guess all three. InDesign CS2 does ss01 but not salt, Illustrator and Quark
    7 do salt but not ss01, older InDesign versions do titl but neither ss01 nor salt,
    and Photoshop does salt and ss01 but not titl. So if you do all three, it can
    be accessed in all these programs.
  created: '2007-03-20 20:32:49'
- author:
    name: RachelR
  body: "So I would do :\r\n\r\nfeature titl { \r\n# Latin\r\nsub i by i.alt;\r\n}
    titl;\r\n\r\nfeature salt { \r\n# Latin\r\nsub i by i.alt;\r\n} salt;\r\n\r\nfeature
    ss01 { \r\n# Latin\r\nsub i by i.alt;\r\n} ss01;\r\n\r\nwill different features
    doing the same thing cause any problems ? "
  created: '2007-03-20 21:08:55'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "I haven't tried it with all three, but in <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/17887\">this
    thread</a> Adam Twardoch gives an example with three features doing the same thing,
    so I would expect that it works.\r\n\r\nAnd I made a mistake earlier: Photoshop
    does salt but not ss01."
  created: '2007-03-20 21:21:53'
- author:
    name: Village
  body: The font will work with all three features. (If you wanted to, you could make
    your i -> i.alt substitution the smcp or onum feature.)
  created: '2007-03-20 21:42:15'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "I know this conversation is as old as the (OpenType) hills, but what everyone
    is advocating is not ideal, from my perspective.\r\n\r\nMany OpenType features
    are really the same -- they substitute one glyph for another, in the case of 'titl'
    or 'smcp' or 'sups'. The reason there are different features is that the feature
    itself conveys information about the substitutions it comprises. If you put an
    alternate in 'titl' that is not a titling alternate, then you are telling an application
    \"this font has one or more titling alternates\" when it actually doesn't.\r\n\r\nIt's
    tempting to look at the features that are supported in popular applications and
    comandeer them in order to make alternates more easily acccessible, but I personally
    believe it's bad practice. I understand the arguments in favor of it, but I don't
    necessarily agree with them.\r\n\r\nMy opinion is that your alternate i belongs
    in 'salt'. If it truly is a titling alternate, then of course it's appropriate
    to put it in 'titl'. Whether it correctly belongs in a stylistic set ('ss**' feature)
    is even murkier; I personally think that stylistic sets should be reserved for
    multiple glyphs which are intended to be substituted together, not single alternates.\r\n\r\nOf
    course in InDesign, alternates from 'salt' are available through the glyph palette.\r\n\r\nIn
    the long run, I think it's better to keep glyphs in appropriate features, because
    we all hope that one day soon that OpenType feature UI will improve, and when
    that day comes, font users will find that their fonts behave consistently and
    predictably."
  created: '2007-03-20 22:09:38'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "The fact that InDesign allows stylistic sets to be specified in a style sheet
    <strong>and</strong> that it allows more than one stylistic set to be applied
    on the same text makes for a powerful combination and implies that they were meant
    for more than the limited way you describe (presumably the way in which they were
    intended to be used).\r\n\r\nsalt severely limits the usefulness of alternate
    since they can't be specified in style sheets. Using the Glyph palette to select
    alternate characters is probably okay for display fonts, but impractical for text.
    \r\n\r\nImagine using the Glyph palette to substitute every lowercase \"a\" with
    an alternate form in a 300-page book. If it's included as a single character stylistic
    set instance, you can change the style sheet and every \"a\" in the book will
    use the alternate form. And who is to say that a single alternate character could
    not be considered a valid stylistic set? Why must it be \"multiple glyphs\"? Especially
    since we have up to twenty sets to utilize?\r\n\r\nI realize that what I'm describing
    could be considered a hack. But this is such an incredibly useful and powerful
    thing that I very much hope that InDesign's implementation of stylistic sets becomes
    the norm."
  created: '2007-03-20 23:31:12'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "Mark, we're really talking about two different things. First, what is an
    OpenType layout feature intended to do? And second, how successfully is a feature
    supported in an application?\r\n\r\nI can't argue with your observations about
    feature UI. It is very helpful to be able to specify features in a style sheet,
    and the fact that one cannot do that with 'salt' is a problem. The real solution,
    though, is for applications to improve their feature support and UI. 'salt' is
    a valid and useful feature, and we need applications to handle it better.\r\n\r\n(By
    the way, in case anyone doubts it: Application users have the most influence over
    its features. I urge all users to write to application developers and describe
    UI problems and make suggestions. The more they hear about something, the more
    likely it is to be addressed. The fact that one cannot easily apply a single 'salt'
    substitution across an entire document, for example, is something to complain
    about.)\r\n\r\nStylistic sets are a tricky business. My recollection is that the
    feature was conceived as an adjunct to 'salt', as a way to say, \"These glyphs
    are, collectively, a single stylistic alternate and should be used together, not
    individually.\" Given that, a stylistic set with one glyph should simply be in
    'salt'. I don't know that it's some horrible sin to put a single glyph in a stylistic
    set, but I'd describe it as inappropriate -- something akin to putting a regular,
    non-contextual ligature in 'clig' instead of 'liga'. The best argument I can make
    against single-glyph stylistic sets is that they are not \"stylistic sets\", they
    are \"stylistic alternates\".\r\n\r\nReally though, I understand the real-world
    situation is less than ideal, and I am sympathetic. I just didn't want the opposing
    view to go unmentioned, as I think it's worth keeping in mind."
  created: '2007-03-21 00:14:26'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: It would be nice if the OT app. could read from the font data and use the
    terminology of the type designer for the alternate sets and only show the font
    specific options in the OT palette. And also, if all the hungry children could
    be fed, and the neo-cons would burst into flames, that would be good.
  created: '2007-03-21 00:56:49'
- author:
    name: RachelR
  body: "Through my inexperience with opentype I believed that the Stylistic Alternatives
    could be used in the same way as Lining and Old style figures, with a simple click
    changing all glyphs to the alternative - but thats obviously not the case at the
    moment.\r\n\r\nIf I was to implement the Stylistic Alternatives using the features
    stated, how would I use them in Indesign. Style sheets have been mentioned, but
    how would I use them ?"
  created: '2007-03-21 07:25:31'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: /track/
  created: '2007-03-21 08:29:49'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>It\u2019s tempting to look at the features that are supported in popular
    applications and comandeer them in order to make alternates more easily acccessible,
    but I personally believe it\u2019s bad practice. I understand the arguments in
    favor of it, but I don\u2019t necessarily agree with them.</cite>\r\n\r\nI understand
    the sentiment, but don't agree at all. You only have to go back to the Type 1
    days & the Windows & Mac operating systems to see the problems with this kind
    of thinking. To use double-f ligatures, you had to lie about the name, whether
    you put them in a separate font, like Monotype, or the same font, like some FontFont
    fonts.   So, better not to use them?\r\n\r\nOf course, if you weren't stuck with
    those kludge programs Quark and PageMaker, or with Windows or Mac OS, you could
    do as you chose. We ran TeX out of a DOS box, so could write a legitimate encoding
    vector to include whatever glyphs we wanted. Features for fonts aren't new --
    a little thing most people don't know was that you could put ligaturing instructions
    in an AFM file, and if your typesetting program made use of it (the AFM), you
    would get automatic ligaturing -- fj gg, zy, ggy, no problem.\r\n\r\nThe point
    is that end users, so often ignored, turn the tables when it is time to get work
    done -- we have to ignore your whims, while thanking you for the basic tools.\r\n\r\nAnd
    by the way, how did anyone ever get the idea that \"set\" implied more than one
    member?"
  created: '2007-03-21 12:36:31'
- author:
    name: RachelR
  body: "charles_e,\r\n\r\nI'm slightly confused, are you saying not to include alternative
    glyphs.\r\n\r\nI've actually got it all working now using .titl and sso1 features,
    which works across platforms on all Abode applications. The alternative \"i\"
    I wanted to include isn't vital to the font, but more of an extra I wanted to
    add. "
  created: '2007-03-21 13:58:36'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "No, what I'm saying is that as long as there are different applications programs
    which support different features, the helpful type designer will make their *font
    features* available so those varying programs can use them. Fonts usually aren't
    an end in themselves; someone must be able to use them to do work. To the extent
    possible, don't go flat-out against the intended purpose of a feature, but there
    is ample history for even this, with good reason, looking back no further than
    the Type 1 format.   \r\n\r\nI'm looking more & more with favor on the people
    like Nick Shinn (& others), who said\r\n\r\n<cite>I second chester\u2019s advice.\r\nI
    put the alternate set in all three of salt, titl, and ss01, that way it is accessible
    in as many past and present versions of different software.</cite>"
  created: '2007-03-21 14:51:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Chris, what of those who have not upgraded from CS1? As an employee of Adobe,
    you must know how many there are. I don't, but I'm assuming there are a significant
    number.\r\n\r\nThose are the people who must rely on \"Titling\" to access the
    alternates features in InDesign etc.\r\n\r\nIn principle, I think it's better
    to maximize accessibility now and facilitate the longevity of existing products,
    rather than optimize for programmed obscelescence and a hypothetical future."
  created: '2007-03-21 16:42:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Perhaps Christopher might hint about CS3's opentype features? Might he say
    they are at least better than they are in CS2?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-21 16:52:04'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Maybe I'm just grouchy today or something, I dunno.\r\n\r\nPredictably enough,
    I'm with Christopher on this one. I'll also go so far as to add that if you hijack
    features for your own purposes, you are making a font that can reasonably be called
    a hack, or even buggy.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, perhaps I should be more appreciative;
    if other folks make sub-standard OpenType fonts, more people will want to buy
    ours instead. I just hope it doesn't damage OpenType's reputation.\r\n\r\nThis
    discussion reminds me of a popular OpenType script font that uses the 'calt' feature
    for non-contextual substitutions of ending forms. Since 'calt' is on by default,
    this means that typing with this font in common applications such as InDesign
    yields ending forms in the middle of words... sigh.\r\n\r\nCharles: the reason
    that some people think stylistic sets should affect more than one glyph is not
    because they don't know the definition of \"set\" but because the OpenType feature
    registry says so.\r\n\r\n<cite>Function: In addition to, or instead of, stylistic
    alternatives of individual glyphs (see 'salt' feature), some fonts may contain
    sets of stylistic variant glyphs corresponding to portions of the character set,
    e.g. multiple variants for lowercase letters in a Latin font. Glyphs in stylistic
    sets may be designed to harmonise visually, interract in particular ways, or otherwise
    work together.</cite>\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-03-21 16:52:24'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>To use double-f ligatures, you had to lie about the name, whether you
    put them in a separate font, like Monotype, or the same font, like some FontFont
    fonts. So, better not to use them?</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, I wouldn't say that it's
    \"better not to use them\". The glyphs are in the font and are usable. We agree
    that the current UI is not very good for stylistic alternates, and using them
    is a hassle in some cases. (On the other hand, if one is only using an occasional
    alternate, the current UI in InDesign is quite adequate.)\r\n\r\nBut the old Type
    1 method which you are describing reinforces my belief that it's better to resist
    nonintuitive workarounds (which is how I would describe typing cap-Y to get 'ffi').
    The appeal of keeping glyphs in appropriate OpenType layout features is an idealistic
    one for me. If I enter <code>characters + 'titl'</code> into my document, I've
    just specified a description which is independent of font and application.\r\n\r\nI
    want to see all applications implement a wide range of layout features, which
    I am optimistic about -- but when that happens, it will not be so pleasant if
    all the fonts out there have been built with inconsistent layout features. Imagine
    how crazy things would be if applying 'bold' to a font produced italics or titling
    alternates. I don't think layout features are so different from these more entrenched
    styling choices, and in a world where styling and content are becoming more distinct
    all the time (HTML, CSS, etc.), it is only becoming more important to ensure that
    style tags produce the expected visual result.\r\n\r\n<cite>And by the way, how
    did anyone ever get the idea that \u201Cset\u201D implied more than one member?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    same way I learned what lots of other words mean, I guess. (Reading? School?)
    My Webster's dictionary says:\r\n\r\n<cite>a number of things of the same kind
    that belong or are used together</cite>\r\n\r\nMy real point with that was that,
    the way I see it, 'ss**' was meant to be the multiple-glyph version of 'salt'."
  created: '2007-03-21 16:56:26'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>My real point with that was that, the way I see it, \u2018ss**\u2019
    was meant to be the multiple-glyph version of \u2018salt\u2019.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's
    certainly how I read the spec. Now, it's still reasonable to put for example an
    alternate \"i\" in ss01, in part because you probably also have that same alternate
    on all the various accented forms of the \"i\" as well.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-03-21 17:01:02'
- author:
    name: Village
  body: "It's always good to hear from folks at Adobe on these issues. Naturally,
    I agree whith Christopher and Thomas on these issues, and one of my mantras is
    \"Design 10 years into the future\", which is what Adobe's David Lemon once told
    me, concerning OT development.\r\n\r\nIn order for OpenType to be accepted and
    embraced, and for people to know how \"drive\" OT fonts, developers need to adhere
    to the spec. Just as all users of the road need to adhere to the same set of traffic
    laws.\r\n\r\nI assumed that Rachel's work is personal, and not intended for publication,
    in which case she can make her GSUB work under any feature. (Closed Course. Professional
    Driver.) If Rachel intends to publish the typeface in question, she should think
    very carefully about how her alternate i feature functions: Is it a titling variant?
    Or a stylistic set? What espectations will users have about the font, based upon
    which OT features are programmed into it?"
  created: '2007-03-21 17:29:18'
- author:
    name: scruggsdesign
    picture: 128176
  body: "Maybe I\u2019m grouchy too but\u2026\r\n\r\nI realize opentype feature implementation
    and UI design is still in it\u2019s early childhood stage of development but in
    my opinion it needs an overhaul. With casual, handmade design the current and
    increasing trend, fonts capable of simulating the hand of the artist should be
    possible in Opentype font development and modern design applications. This means
    having the ability pull from a set of many alternate designs for a single glyph
    to randomly insert slightly different designs when a letter is repeated in a string
    of text.\r\n\r\nI love the idea of stylistic sets but it needs to be implemented
    in a consistent manner throughout the whole suite. It almost seems like the individual
    teams (Illustrator, InDesign, Photoshop\u2026) don\u2019t talk to each other when
    it comes to UI design. I hope I can stick my foot in my mouth by the end of this
    month with the release of CS3 and we will see some improvements.\r\n\r\nJosh"
  created: '2007-03-21 18:58:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>if you hijack features for your own purposes</em>\r\n\r\nIt depends on
    one's perspective. It would seem that Thomas expects font developers to abide
    by the way Adobe interprets features.\r\n\r\nFor instance, by combining figure
    features, the InDesign implementation of OT figure styles is somewhat of a hack/buggy.
    Suppose I produce a font with two figure features, pnum and tnum. Now, if an InDesign
    user clicks on \"Proportional Oldstyle\", what happens? I just hope that doesn't
    \"damage OpenType's reputation\" :-)\r\n\r\nTo use Thomas' colourful language,
    the OT features have been hijacked so that Adobe's OT fonts, all of which have
    either one or four figure styles, serve the purposes of Adobe's layout applications,
    or vice versa. Either way, a perfectly legitimate font with two figure features
    appears buggy, when in fact it is the layout application which is at fault.\r\n\r\nActually,
    I have found it quite stimulating to *have* to produce four sets of figure styles,
    and I have great admiration for Adobe apps--and I always design with them in mind.
    And like chester, I follow their lead and advice on many things. I only draw attention
    to this figures issue to demonstrate that it's not an absolute situation, no design
    is perfect, and as there may be some interpretation involved in implementing OpenType
    features, there should also be room for flexibility.\r\n\r\n<em>Design 10 years
    into the future</em>\r\n\r\nBut what if someone who chooses not to upgrade CS1
    wants to access a stylistic set with InDesign today, without doing it glyph by
    glyph from the glyph palette? What possible negative future ramifications will
    occur if I put the alternates of a font like Softmachine in \"Titling\"? In fact,
    that's what I've done, and explained it in the \"read me\" pdf.\r\n "
  created: '2007-03-21 18:59:12'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I think RachelR has her answer, so I hope we\u2019re not really hijacking
    the thread. OK, I understand that someone may specify \u201Cset\u201D is to be
    used only when there is more than one member, though that borders on Wittgenstein\u2019s
    grumble about \u201Cprivate language\u201D -\u2013 as best I remember my math
    logic, a set could have no members, one member, or more than one member . . .
    whatever.\r\n\r\nHere is a true story. We had a book to set where the designer
    wanted to use text (old style) numbers, and small capitals for acronyms. Pretty
    normal stuff. As it turned out, there were some acronyms with an \u201CI\u201D,
    and one that occurred more than once where there was both an \u201CI\u201D and
    a \u201C1\u201D in the acronym. On seeing sample pages, the editor hit the roof;
    down came the mandate that either the os figures or the small cap acronyms had
    to go.\r\n\r\nPutting on my Solomon cap (an unfamiliar role), I made up a os fig
    \u201C1\u201D that looked like a regular \u201C1\u201D (or like a Minion os \u201C1\u201D).
    Problem solved. This was back in the Type 1 days, so the glyph was named oneoldstylealt,
    and since, as I mentioned, we could write our own encoding vector, everything
    was pretty clear downstream to boot.\r\n\r\nNow how are we going to handle this
    with OT? The need is there; designers and editors still fuss about their overlapping
    turf. As I understand it, if we were to put the alternate \u201C1\u201D in the
    salt feature, then it is on when any of the other features we might want as stylistic
    alternates are on. Not a happy situation. Moreover, if the \u201C1\u201D variant
    is to be used throughout the book, it needs to be picked up in ID\u2019s \u201CParagraph
    Style Options - Open Type Features\u201D which includes stylistic sets, but not
    salt, unless I\u2019m wrong yet one more time.\r\n\r\nMy point, I hoped, was that
    the designers of type too frequently don\u2019t pay enough attention to the users
    of type and their needs. Comps have that problem too, I know. All throughout the
    19th century, the lead comp was the designer. But the compositors developed their
    own aesthetic, and it turned out not to be an aesthetic shared by most people,
    including the customers who paid the printing bill. Enter the layout man; the
    comps lost the privilege of designing.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-21 19:21:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Surely it was mechanization that sundered design and production in the 19th
    C.,, not the pecadilloes of compositors.
  created: '2007-03-21 20:22:58'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>the reason that some people think stylistic sets should affect more than
    one glyph is not because they don\u2019t know the definition of \u201Cset\u201D
    but because the OpenType feature registry says so.</em>\r\n\r\nSo, if you design
    a font with only one alternate glyph (I have seen fonts like this), the spec would
    bar you from putting the single alternate glyph into a stylistic set? \r\n\r\nOr,
    let's say you have only two alternate characters and let's say they don't harmonize,
    you shouldn't put them into separate stylistic sets simply because there would
    only be one glyph in each set? \r\n\r\nThis insistence that a stylistic set must
    have two or more characters seems a little unreasonable and bureaucratic. In spite
    of the spec, is there any reason (practical or otherwise) that having a stylistic
    set that affects only one glyph would cause problems now or in the future?"
  created: '2007-03-21 20:40:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think we all have to look at it from the users perspective. If the user
    can't use it reasonably easily to achieve the desired result, then either the
    spec, the applications, or the font design need some adjustment (or all three).
    I know it is hard reigning in a comittee which goes accross corporate borders
    but if opentype is to gain ground, the process must begin.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-21 21:13:15'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "We come up with feature functionality before giving it a name, so to argue
    that one can interpret the name of a feature one way or another is beside the
    point. The thing to consider is its specification and (lacking clarity there)
    its intended function. The stylistic sets features were conceived (IIRC) to gather
    more than one alternate and activate them together. Anyone is welcome to interpret
    a feature's function differently, but in the end, font developers will benefit
    from knowing what the intended, agreed-upon function of a feature is, to ensure
    that what they implement in their font will be consistent with those from other
    developers.\r\n\r\nThat said, the discussion about the difference between 'salt'
    and 'ss**' is more difficult than is typical, because the general concept of stylistic
    alternates is quite fuzzy compared to other features. For example, if one applies
    'smcp' to a letter, it's pretty obvious what one should get. OTOH, if one applies
    'salt' to a letter, all one knows is they should get \"some stylistic alternate.\"
    Such an expectation is pretty vague, and certainly can't be expected to be consistent
    between different font families. Also, applications will probably always have
    different UIs for 'salt' and 'ss**', because the former is often \"one from many\",
    and the latter is always \"one to one\". (The reason there are multiple 'ss**'
    features is kind of a way of implementing \"many to many from many\".)\r\n\r\nI
    don't think all this is a matter of \"insistence\" or \"bureaucracy\". I only
    think that a specification exists to create a standard on which people can depend
    to ensure consistent and successful results is a world where many things (fonts,
    applications, OSes) interact. I think the best way to ensure successful, pleasing
    layout features is to follow a specification, so I recommend that. Everybody else
    is quite welcome to do differently, with the inherent advantages, disadvantages,
    and risks. As we know, taking liberties with a layout feature's specified function
    has some appeal, but I just want everyone to be aware of the downside, too."
  created: '2007-03-21 21:24:48'
- author:
    name: RachelR
  body: "Great thread everyone, thanks for the input.\r\n\r\nIt seems from people
    in the know here that to ensure consistent and successful results stylistic alternatives
    aren't possible at the moment. I have the alternatives I wanted working using
    a ss01 feature, but at the risk of producing a buggy font, I'll side with caution
    and leave out the stylistic alternatives, better safe than sorry."
  created: '2007-03-21 22:34:57'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Surely it was mechanization that sundered design and production in
    the 19th C.,, not the pecadilloes of compositors.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, maybe. Take
    a look at Vincent Steer's <cite>Printing Design and Layout</cite> (London: Virtue
    & Co, 1934).\r\n\r\n<cite>At the beginning of the present century, however, the
    need for an intervening stage between the written word and the printed word became
    acute. The printing industry had been split up into sections and where one man
    formerly performed all the operations necessary in the production  of a piece
    of printing, now many specialists were required. Printers had lost the art of
    designing their own work and were soon to lose the proud privilege of doing so.
    The master printer, having now become a modern business man, was no longer to
    be regarded as an artist craftsman.</cite>\r\n\r\nMy take is that it was the time
    of Victorian excess in the comp world. The comps resisted the intervention of
    a \"layout man,\" but the print shop owners noticed they got more billable hours
    out of the comps if they didn't do design as well, do that was that. It pretty
    much came about because the comps tried to outdo each other with different typefaces
    & complicated layouts -- not what the customers wanted -- sound familiar?\r\n\r\nBTW,
    there is one used copy of the Steer at Amazon, cheap (I paid about $50 for my
    copy). Lots of good out-of-date ornaments if that's your thing."
  created: '2007-03-22 00:15:48'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "My own understanding is that OpenType Layout features can perform several
    different functions. In my own terminology, OpenType Layout features can perform
    five different kinds of tasks: \r\n\r\n<strong>a) linguistic</strong>: there is
    a very strong inherent meaning to the feature; the feature performs a task that
    is crucial in the process of producing linguistically (orthographically) correct
    text. Usually, there is an established orthographic tradition when such features
    are applied, and they are usually applied automatically by the typesetting software.
    Such features are <em>init</em>, <em>medi</em>, <em>fina</em> or <em>isol</em>
    for Arabic, <em>haln</em> or <em>nukt</em> for Indic scripts, <em>rlig</em>, <em>locl</em>
    or <em>ccmp</em> for all writing systems, and many others. \r\n<strong>b) semantic</strong>:
    the feature has some clearly defined purpose, and affects the semantic aspect
    of the text \u2014 as well as the visual side. Typically, its use is discretionary
    but there is an established typographic tradition of when such features are applied,
    i.e. whenever a feature is applied, the general reader knows what this accentuation
    means. Such features include <em>sups</em>, <em>subs</em> and <em>sinf</em> commonly
    used in scientific purposes, <em>frac</em>, <em>numr</em>, <em>dnom</em> and <em>afrc</em>
    to denote fractions, <em>hist</em> to indicate a shift in the historical context
    of the text, <em>ornm</em>, <em>ordn</em> and others. \r\n<strong>c) casing</strong>:
    the feature assists the typesetter in case conversions. It is a border-case between
    semantic and articulatory function, and deserves a class of its own. Use of different
    case may affect the semantic aspect of the text (e.g. proper names) or just the
    visual side (emphasis, headlines). The features include <em>smcp</em>, <em>c2sc</em>,
    <em>case</em>, <em>pcap</em>, <em>c2pc</em>, <em>unic</em>, <em>cpsp</em>. \r\n<strong>d)
    articulatory</strong>: the feature has a defined purpose but there is not commonly-accepted
    convention, or code, that allows the reader to decipher the function; the convention
    needs to be established on a per-publication basis, e.g. <em>zero</em>, <em>swsh</em>,
    <em>cswh</em>, <em>titl</em>, <em>dlig</em>, <em>onum</em>, <em>lnum</em>. Such
    features may also be used to solve purely visual tasks, e.g. <em>jalt</em>, <em>kern</em>,
    <em>pnum</em>, <em>tnum</em>, <em>curs</em>. For non-cursive writing systems,
    this also includes <em>init</em>, <em>medi</em>, <em>fina</em>. \r\n<strong>e)
    stylistic</strong>: the feature has no defined purpose and is used solely to diversify
    the visual aspect of the text or assists in solving of typographic problems, e.g.
    <em>ss01</em>\u2013<em>ss20</em>, <em>salt</em>, <em>liga</em>, <em>calt</em>,
    <em>aalt</em>. \r\n\r\nEach feature typically is tied to one of these functions,
    but some features can perform different functions. For example, features such
    as <em>curs</em>, <em>init</em>, <em>medi</em>, <em>fina</em> can perform linguistic,
    articulatory or stylistic functions, depending on the particular writing system,
    language, font and the purposes for which the user is employing the font. \r\n\r\n<em>My
    own view:</em> Substitutions defined in features classified as performing semantic
    or articulatory functions, as well as some liguistic features (<em>ccmp</em>,
    <em>locl</em>) may also be duplicated in the stylistic features. \"Hi-jacking\"
    of the linguistic, semantic or casing features (i.e. implementing functionality
    in them that contradicts their defined function) should be avoided at all cost.
    The stylistic features can be \"hi-jacked\" practically without limitations: it
    really is up to the designer what kind of functionality gets implemented in <em>ss01</em>\u2013<em>ss20</em>,
    <em>salt</em>, <em>liga</em>, <em>calt</em>. \"Hi-jacking\" of articulatory features
    should be avoided, but in some very specific cases exceptions can be made. For
    example, the <em>zero</em> feature might perhaps substitute some other glyphs
    except \"zero\" if the designer deems it necessary, or instead of a slashed zero,
    a different form of the zero glyph (clearly distinct from \"O\" but not necessarily
    using a slash) might get inserted. \r\n\r\nFor <em>ssXX</em> and <em>salt</em>,
    I personally always consider them to have a similar, \"pivotal\" relation to each
    other. In the fonts I develop I typically first develop the semantic and articulatory
    features.  \r\n\r\n<code>feature fina { \r\n  lookup fina1 {\r\n    sub a by a.fina;
    \r\n    sub e by e.fina; \r\n  } fina1; \r\n} fina;\r\n\r\nfeature swsh { \r\n
    \ lookup swsh1 {\r\n    sub b by b.swsh; \r\n    sub g by g.swsh; \r\n  } swsh1;
    \r\n} swsh;\r\n\r\nfeature hist { \r\n  lookup hist1 {\r\n    sub r by r.hist;
    \r\n    sub M by M.hist; \r\n  } hist1; \r\n} hist;</code>\r\n\r\nThen, I develop
    the stylistic features. I start off with stylistic sets. In addition to substitutions
    that only happen within the stylistic sets, I also make sets that duplicate the
    functionality of some of the previously defined semantic and articulatory features.
    Pretty much any semantic or articulatory substitution can also in addition be
    viewed as a stylistic substitution -- users may want to use a different glyph
    not because they want to express a different function but also simple because
    they like it visually. I wouldn't go so far and duplicate the basic casing features
    (<em>smcp</em>, <em>c2sc</em>, <em>case</em> etc.) onto stylistic sets, but would
    do so for their alternates, e.g. if a font has several sets of small caps, I'd
    include <em>pcap</em>/<em>c2pc</em> but also make the petite caps a stylistic
    set <em>ss01</em> and stylistic alternate <em>salt</em> for the small caps. Similar,
    alternate fractions (<em>afrc</em>) should be IMO also stylistic sets of regular
    fractions (<em>frac</em>) -- at least for precomposed fractions. \r\n\r\nSo, my
    <em>ssXX</em> features might look like: \r\n\r\n<code>feature ss01 { \r\n  sub
    a by a.ss01; \r\n  sub b by b.ss01; \r\n  sub c by c.ss01; \r\n} ss01; \r\n\r\nfeature
    ss02 {\r\n  sub a by a.ss02; \r\n  sub d by d.ss02; \r\n} ss02;\r\n\r\nfeature
    ss03 {\r\n  lookup fina1; # Same as \"fina\"\r\n} ss03; \r\n\r\nfeature ss04 {\r\n
    \ lookup swsh1; # Same as \"swsh\"\r\n} ss04; \r\n\r\nfeature ss05 {\r\n  lookup
    hist1; # Same as \"hist\"\r\n} ss05;</code>\r\n\r\nFinally, I create the stylistic
    alternates feature (<em>salt</em>) which implements the same substitutions as
    the <em>ssXX</em> features but using one-to-one out of many lookups. Since Illustrator
    only supports the first alternate, stylistic alternates in Illustrator works exactly
    the same as stylistic set 1 in InDesign: \r\n\r\n<code>feature salt {\r\n  sub
    a from [a.ss01 a.ss02 a.fina]; \r\n  sub b from [b.ss01 b.swsh]; \r\n  sub c from
    [c.ss01]; \r\n  sub d from [d.ss02]; \r\n  sub e from [e.fina]; \r\n  sub g from
    [g.swsh]; \r\n  sub r from [r.hist]; \r\n  sub M from [M.hist]; \r\n} salt;</code>\r\n\r\nI
    found this approach rather logical, consistent and also predictable for end-users.
    \r\n\r\nI wonder what your thoughts on this might be. \r\n\r\nBest, \r\nAdam\r\n\r\nPs.
    Edited: by John Hudson's suggestion, I replaced \"strong stylistic\" with \"articulatory\"
    and \"weak stylistic\" with \"stylistic\". Also added a paragraph explaining that
    while most features are tied to one function, some features can be tied to different
    functions depending on the script, language or font. "
  created: '2007-03-22 00:28:37'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "As you know, most or all of us at Adobe disagree with you on the acceptability
    of \"hijacking\"; we think it should either never be done, or certainly not for
    mere convenience in a regular retail font.\r\n\r\nThat being said, some features
    are flexible enough that few uses of them are likely to constitute hijacking.
    I think this is true of 'salt' and 'ssXX'.\r\n\r\nThe type of hijacking that I
    find most objectionable is when there is a feature that is clearly defined for
    one purpose, and that is the purpose in question, but the font developer chooses
    to assign another feature as well or instead because of what happens to be supported
    in current versions of applications, and that other feature has a clearly defined
    and contrary meaning to the glyphs being put in it.\r\n\r\nAs an example, putting
    ending forms into 'calt' (connecting/contextual alternates) in a way that causes
    them to show up even in the middle of a word when 'calt' is on, is bad practice.
    Especially so given that 'calt' is supposed to be on by default. Also undesriable
    would be putting an arbitrary stylistic alternate into 'titl' (titling alternates).\r\n\r\nMany
    of these sorts of things will be reasonable candidates for a stylistic set and
    perhaps a stylistic alternate. \r\nI will continue to label such fonts as broken
    and buggy. I think that making fonts in this way is bad for everybody in the long
    run, even if it seems convenient in the near term. Yes, you can get much better
    performance out of your 16-cylinder font, but the gas consumption and emissions
    are long-term problems.\r\n\r\nAs a side note, your code example of 'salt' does
    not function identically to 'ss01' the way you say it does, unless your 'ss01'
    happens to also invoke some \".ss02\" glyphs and some \".hist\" glyphs, etcetera.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-03-22 00:57:13'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Thomas, \r\n\r\nI agree that my wording was overly optimistic. My \"salt\"
    and \"ss01\" do not work identically. I guess I should have said that using my
    implementation, it is possible to achieve largely similar results using \"salt\"
    in Illustrator and one or more \"ssXX\" features in InDesign. Since the \"ssXX\"
    features in InDesign are implemented in an additive way, one could say that InDesign
    offers a finer control than Illustrator but altogether gives access to the same
    glyphs. \r\n\r\nAs you noted, I'm also opposed to \"hi-jacking\" features that
    have a clearly defined purpose. This is most true for linguistic and semantic
    features. Strong stylistic features are a border case -- if there are really good
    reasons, some hi-jacking would be permissible, within reason. For example, the
    description of <em>titl</em> in the OpenType spec says <em>\"Function: This feature
    replaces the default glyphs with corresponding forms designed specifically for
    titling. These may be all-capital and/or larger on the body, and adjusted for
    viewing at larger sizes. (...) Recommended implementation: The titl table maps
    default forms to corresponding titling forms (GSUB lookup type 1).\"</em>. However,
    as the English word <strong>titling</strong> is ambiguous (it may stand for \"to
    provide a title for\" or \"to designate or call by a title\"), I could imagine
    a designer putting fancy abbreviations such as \"Mr.\", \"Ms.\", \"Mme.\" into
    that feature. It would not necessarily go with the exact wording of the specification,
    but would still make sense by general logic. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-22 01:26:18'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Adam, a very nice & thorough job of thought & explanation.\r\n\r\nHaving
    said that, there are always matters that do not fall nicely into categories. I
    stayed out of the \"small cap numbers\" thread, but consider that there is  a
    style <cite>Harvard Blue</cite> where titles are set cap-small cap. It is a fairly
    common legal style. Now any numbers occurring withing the book titles in this
    style should NOT be set with small cap lining figures, but with either full lining
    or old style, depending on the figure style of the journal.\r\n\r\nBut the feature
    one would turn on to set the titles would be \"small caps,\" so as to make setting
    the Cap-small caps easier, and to avoid blocking kerning between the full & small
    caps. And for this reason, I wouldn't want the small cap feature to include small
    cap lining features.\r\n\r\nFrom my perspective then, small cap figures belong
    in a stylistic set. I agree it is debatable.\r\n\r\nBest,\r\n\r\nCharles "
  created: '2007-03-22 01:37:40'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Adam: Yes, the English word \"titling\" is ambiguous, which is why instead
    of an English word we use a feature tag and we define what that feature tag means.
    So the example you give is a great example of a designer doing something they
    shouldn't. In any case, even that kind of logic would not support putting a sylistic
    variant of a lowercase \"i\" into 'titl'.\r\n\r\nMark et al: Personally, I would
    not consider it egregious to have a stylistic set that only affected one glyph.
    I do think it would be a really bad idea to put completely unrelated things in
    a single stylistic set, as the whole point of a stylistic set is to get a consistent
    look, and it's meant to be applied globally.\r\n\r\nAlso of note is the idea that
    'salt' is meant to be applied on a single character at a time, and implies a UI
    that allows the user to pick which alternate they want for the character being
    affected.\r\n\r\nJosh: The functionality you're asking for is already possible
    and has been implemented in some fonts that work with shipping applications today.
    The 'rand' feature is not directly supported, but can be imitated by contextual
    substitutions. Given that context can go across words, the same word can be made
    to appear differently when typed repeatedly in different contexts, as one can
    see with \"the\" in Bickham Script Pro.\r\n\r\nNick: <cite>It would seem that
    Thomas expects font developers to abide by the way Adobe interprets features.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo,
    I simply expect developers to abide by the published specs.\r\n\r\nYou bring up
    a quite different (though certainly important) question of application support
    and UI. I have certainly never argued that InDesign's UI for OpenType features
    is wonderful. I agree that it could stand improvement in a variety of ways, and
    have repeatedly suggested that if other people are unhappy about it, they should
    put in a feature request so that the InDesign team will know that people are unhappy
    (http://www.adobe.com/cfusion/mmform/index.cfm?name=wishform). But as of a few
    weeks ago, going through the entire InDesign feature request database for the
    previous year, NOT ONE PERSON made such a request, and hardly anyone has asked
    for support for more OpenType layout features. This despite thousands of feature
    requests.\r\n\r\nSo, Nick, if that bothers you enough to write about it here,
    you should make a feature request. Otherwise you're like people who complain about
    the actions of elected leaders but can't be bothered to vote. It's not like I
    haven't pointed out the link before:\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/cfusion/mmform/index.cfm?name=wishform\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-22 01:41:50'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i agree, charles. i feel that Adam's stance an explanation provides a comfortable
    middle ground between the fundamentalist OT spec hardline and the willy-nilly
    asignment of functions and features.
  created: '2007-03-22 01:41:59'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I still say you're going to hell, and taking me with you!\r\n\r\n:)\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-03-22 02:04:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "My mistrust of classification systems is well documented, but teleological
    classification is a respectable Thomistic tradition, so I'll play along with Adam's
    suggestions. I'm not very happy with the titles 'Strong Stylistic' and 'Weak Stylistic',
    because these qualifiers seem to undermine the functional focus of the classification.
    I would probably use, respectively, 'Articulatory' and 'Stylistic'.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, now we can have a good argument about whether e.g. the 'curs' feature
    is linguistic, articulatory or stylistic. And the answer is that it might be any
    of these, or straddle categories, depending on the particular script, language,
    font and the purposes for which the user is employing the font. And there goes
    another classification system... :)"
  created: '2007-03-22 02:07:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Charles, the emergence of the layout man, later to be termed art director
    or graphic designer, was due to more widespread phenomena than just changes in
    typography. Mechanization happened in all areas of publishing. \"The Origins of
    Graphic Design in America 1870-1920\" by Ellen Mazur Thomson is the best work
    I've come across on the phenomenon. \r\n\r\n<em>Also undesriable would be putting
    an arbitrary stylistic alternate into \u2018titl\u2019 (titling alternates)</em>\r\n\r\nThomas,
    \"titling\" is the least logical of the \"discretionary alternates\", because
    really it's just a lazy way of not making another font. After all, what is the
    difference between titling and a display/size-specific (\"optical scaling\") font?
    Surely typographers should have access to (almost) all characters in a font at
    display size?  It seems to me that \"titling\" was instituted to accomodate Adobe
    Garamond's titling caps -- meanwhile types such as Kepler, Freight, Filosofia,
    Requiem etc. offer the whole shebang. Therefore it deserves to be repurposed!"
  created: '2007-03-22 02:08:44'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Thomas, \r\n\r\n> Yes, the English word \u201Ctitling\u201D is ambiguous,
    which \r\n> is why instead of an English word we use a feature \r\n> tag and we
    define what that feature tag means. So \r\n> the example you give is a great example
    of a designer \r\n> doing something they shouldn\u2019t.\r\n\r\nLet\u2019s analyze
    the feature description: <em>\"This feature replaces the default glyphs with corresponding
    forms designed specifically for titling. These may be all-capital and/or larger
    on the body, and adjusted for viewing at larger sizes.\"</em>\r\n\r\nA fancy \"Mr.\"
    ligature is a \"corresponding form designed specifically for titling\". Not \"titling\"
    as in \"to provide a title for\" but \"titling\" as in \"to call by a title\".
    \r\n\r\nThe feature description then goes on to speak what the corresponding forms
    <em>may</em> be. Just by reading the feature description, it does not say that
    a fancy \"Mr.\" ligature with a raised and underscored \"r\" is <em>not</em> what
    this feature is for. As I said, the word \"titling\" is ambiguous, and the <em>titl</em>
    feature description does not clarify whether it is only one of the meanings that
    it is intended for. The example cited in the feature description (<em>\"The user
    applies this feature in Adobe Garamond to get the titling caps\"</em>) shows one
    possible solution, but it is not exhaustive. \r\n\r\nIt was not me who wrote the
    feature descriptions in the OpenType specification. An average font developer
    <em>may or may not know</em> what the developers of the specification <em>had
    in mind</em> when writing the wording. \r\n\r\nIf you must, please accept this
    contribution of mine as a call for clarification of the feature description of
    <em>titl</em> to minimize possible implementations that you consider non-conformant.
    \r\n\r\nA.\r\n\r\nPs. Please keep in mind that non-native speakers such as myself
    tend to read texts more literally if they do not necessarily know the cultural
    background. Perhaps for you, it is obvious what exactly the word \"titling\" means
    in this context. For me, it is not. "
  created: '2007-03-22 02:15:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, if that bothers you enough to write about it here, you should make
    a feature request. </em>\r\n\r\nIt doesn't bother me, as I said I have been challenged
    and stimulated by it -- to create old style figures for a scotch modern face,
    and it surprised me that they turned out OK (at least I thought so). What bothers
    me is the hard line on standards.  I like to see clearly defined standards, but
    at the same time I don't mind digression. In fact, clearly defined standards encourage
    meaningful digression.\r\n\r\nI don't see myself making feature requests to Adobe,
    or getting involved with industry groups. I've done my share of that and I often
    end up being a lone dissenting voice, which wearies. I'd rather discuss things
    on Typophile, this is where the action and ideas are -- and your blog is cool
    too."
  created: '2007-03-22 02:24:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...the entire InDesign feature request database for the previous year,
    NOT ONE PERSON made such a request, and hardly anyone has asked for support for
    more OpenType layout features.\"\r\n\r\nThere is at least one now.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-22 02:26:04'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Ok, maybe the right place for <a href="http://typophile.com/node/32455#comment-192478"
    target="_blank">my comment</a> was on this thread.&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)
  created: '2007-03-22 22:07:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Further to my comment on the uselessness of the \"Titling\" feature:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/32478\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nSo
    I will carry on putting alternates in \"titl\" so that users of older apps can
    access the feature.\r\nHowever, I have decided to in future use Stylistic Sets
    and Stylistic Alternates \"properly\", based on arguments above.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-23 03:57:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Oops. I just thought of a good use for Titling -- for a set of Inline, "Tooled",
    or Decorative Capitals, such as those in Scala (although there are four sets).
    Perhaps those would be better as stylistic sets. But if there was just one set
    of fancy caps, something like Castellar, inserted in a tradition serifed font,
    for example.
  created: '2007-03-23 04:27:29'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\nsince Titling Alternates is an \"articulatory\" feature and
    Stylistic Sets is a \"stylistic\" feature, I think it is quite fine to place the
    Inline, \u201CTooled\u201D, or Decorative Capitals into the \"titl\" feature and
    *also* have them as one of the \"ssXX\" features. I think everybody agrees that
    there is no problem with having the same glyphs being invoked through different
    features, as long as each and every of these paths does not conflict with the
    registered description or the intended meaning of each of these features. A set
    of decorative capitals is both \"titling\" and \"stylistic\", and you don't have
    to make an \"either or\" choice. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-03-23 18:50:59'
- author:
    name: Village
  body: "To the assembled, does the following constitute a \"true\" titling application?\r\n\r\nVersions
    of A, O, and U with \"embedded\" umlauts, which are contained within the cap-height.
    These forms are not appropriate within running text, but they can be used for
    all-caps headline setting. These forms should not be linked to case, because not
    all languages would benefit from these variants.\r\n\r\nIf this is a true titl,
    should it also be tagged to only occur in German texts?\r\n\r\nLooking forward
    to hearing both opinions and answers."
  created: '2007-03-23 19:55:19'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>Versions of A, O, and U with \u201Cembedded\u201D umlauts, which are
    contained within the cap-height. These forms are not appropriate within running
    text, but they can be used for all-caps headline setting.</cite>\r\n\r\nSounds
    good.\r\n\r\nI would not restrict it to one language. What about adding some more
    fancy versions for combinations with acute, grave, circumflex?\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2007-03-23 20:10:58'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Versions of A, O, and U with \u201Cembedded\u201D umlauts, \r\n> which
    are contained within the cap-height. \r\n\r\nIt is very appropriate for both Titling
    Alternates and Stylistic Sets. Language tagging typically makes sense to enforce
    certain behaviors by default if the text is known to be in a particular language
    (e.g. the Serbian Cyrillic alternates in \"locl\", the localized forms feature,
    specific substitutions for non-Arabic languages that use the Arabic script), or
    to prevent some behaviors to happen in a particular language that would otherwise
    occur, but would \"spoil\" the setting in that language (e.g. the formation of
    f+i ligatures in Turkish and related languages). \r\n\r\nI think for completely
    discretionary features where it is not known with certainty that a particular
    behavior is suitable only for German or not at all for German, restricting a substitution
    to one language only is not a good idea. \r\n\r\nBest, \r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-23 22:08:39'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "Adobists-\r\n\r\nI would expects a spec-positive approach from anyone developing
    fonts inside Adobe. Not only have they co-authored the specification, but are
    large and need a consistent toolbox for everyone internally.\r\n\r\nNevertheless,
    what makes a font OpenType, is the file format (talbes) and a digital signature.
    This is accessible to anyone. The structuring of the specification is not. The
    value of OpenType to Adobe is increased by Metcalfe's law, so your OT fonts increase
    in value with the aggregate output of outside developers--but without being part
    of the spec design, they (we) are a lawless horde, which tends to complicate things.\r\n\r\nLikewise,
    I do not think it is unfair for others to expect that Adobe will implement all
    the features they sponsored for inclusion prior to dictation of best practices.
    I take most earnestly the recommendations that are implemented by them, not just
    stated. They are the only (of all two) specification designers that has a strong
    position in actual dtp software and font development. After all, why else should
    they determine the final wording of the specification? (Example: 'RAND')\r\n\r\nAdam-\r\n\r\nI
    find your breakdown very useful for a project I am working on. I was trying to
    formulate something similar, with little success. Do you mind if I borrow those
    categories for the collaborative taxonomy of OT components I am working on in
    my \"spare\" time?"
  created: '2007-03-24 16:53:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>These forms are not appropriate within running text...</em>\r\n\r\nNot
    necessarily.\r\nWherever leading is tight or solid, cap accents get in the way.\r\nAnd
    it's the art director's prerogative to do that, negative leading even.\r\n\r\n<em>If
    this is a true titl, should it also be tagged to only occur in German texts?</em>\r\n\r\nDude.
    Blue \xD6yster Cult."
  created: '2007-03-24 19:13:14'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Wherever leading is tight or solid, cap accents get in the way.\r\nAnd
    it\u2019s the art director\u2019s prerogative to do that, negative leading even.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd
    the comp's prerogative to tell such an art director to look for a short pier to
    take a long walk off -- or should that be \"off which to take a long walk\"?\r\n\r\nA
    designer who doesn't take into account the language used in running text, for
    whatever reason, is a <cite>stylist</cite> -- who cares nothing for authors or
    readers."
  created: '2007-03-24 20:37:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Charles, art directors working in many languages set text solid--many of
    them with a complete lack of style.\r\nOften lack of space, or excess of text,
    is the culprit.\r\nPerhaps \"embedded\" cap accents will help."
  created: '2007-03-25 00:10:29'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Nick, you're right of course. Under those conditions (never happens in my
    line of work), it would make sense, if the community of readers understood & accepted
    it. There is even a precedent in mathematics -- the limits for summation & integration
    are place on top in displayed equations, but along side when the equation is run
    into text, expressions having numerators/denominators indicate them with a solidus
    when run in, and so on.\r\n\r\n<cite>Edit</cite>\r\n\r\nI hope it goes without
    saying that these glyphs should be in addition to the caps with regular accents.
    This could even be a plus -- I've always felt that the accents on Quadraat capitals
    compromise the design a bit. Mr. Smeijers may feel otherwise, of course. "
  created: '2007-03-25 02:43:24'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: So, are people saying that embedded/tucked accented caps should be a it's
    own, new, separate feature tag?
  created: '2007-03-25 05:42:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yes, it should be a stylistic set feature, because typographers will want
    to apply it to a mass of text.\r\n\r\nYes, it should be in stylistic alternates
    as well, typographers might not think to look in the sets for it.\r\n\r\nNo, it
    shouldn't be language-specific, because it is not a linguistic attribute.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    a font targeted specifically for German (and English heavy metal) use could include
    it as \"calt\" - so that it is on by default, but could be turned off if perchance
    a Scandinavian uses the font."
  created: '2007-03-25 07:48:54'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/image_4916.gif]\r\n<em>(Image
    courtesy of <a href=\"http://diacritics.typo.cz/index.php?id=12\">diacritics.typo.cz</a>)</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    contemporary German typographic practice, such treatment of accents as shown above
    in Futura is considered dated, antiquated, or at least, it is left for very discretionary
    purposes. Most certainly it should not be on by default. \r\n\r\nChoz, \r\n\r\nfeel
    free to use my categorization in your work. You are welcome to mention the source
    -- to ensure the readers that it is not any \"official\" classification but the
    result of my subjective view of the topic. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-25 12:14:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> dated, antiquated</em>\r\n\r\nThat's what I had in mind, a retro or
    historical revival typeface that played up such tight-fitting qualities. But you're
    probably right, it shouldn't be on by default.\r\n\r\n<em>What about adding some
    more fancy versions for combinations with acute, grave, circumflex?</em>\r\n\r\nA
    comparable treatment for French etc. would be a didone face where acute, grave
    and circumflex cap accents are all just a thin horizontal hairline.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nAdam,
    your thoughts please on the occasional Polish practice of running the cap acute
    right through the top horizontal stem of C, S and O?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-25 19:09:46'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Perhaps a font targeted specifically for German (and English heavy
    metal) use could include it as \u201Ccalt\u201D - so that it is on by default,
    but could be turned off if perchance a Scandinavian uses the font.</em>\r\n\r\nDon't
    implement such behavior in 'calt', because turning the feature off may disable
    other functionalities present in 'calt'."
  created: '2007-03-25 20:55:53'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>(and English heavy metal) use</em>\r\n\r\nThey are generally niche-purposed
    swashes, with no affect on pronunciation or meaning. Shouldn't they should normally
    go in a stylistic set? Or, perhaps, even in swash (assuming the face didn't have
    a broader-use swash). Don't forget that it isn't just English-speaking/targeting
    bands that use the umlaut gratuitously, and that it is not restricted to topping
    a o and u. !Panzermensch, that \"heavy metal\" face I was showing last October,
    features an umlautted n, as an homage to Spinal Tap. \r\n\r\n@ our next board
    meeting I will propose that !Exclamachine work to sponsor the -hmum- tag.~\r\n\r\n<em>.
    You are welcome to mention the source \u2014 to ensure the readers that it is
    not any \u201Cofficial\u201D classification</em> \r\n\r\nI'll call it the Twardoch
    Method\u2122. :)  There does seem to be enough thought and acceptance by those
    that understand OT in this thread that if you haven't nailed it down, you are
    on a very interesting track. I am not going to say that it is officially anything,
    but I think that it might be a great tool for those trying to get their brain
    around OpenType concepts. I like the way you break it into more manageable bites,
    which is the overall goal of my project. Since it is a wiki, there is no harm
    in having several ways of categorizing. So far I had just begun building a database
    using the inherent hierarchal tags, and grouping by lookup types. This will become
    another searchable, groupable vector."
  created: '2007-03-26 04:00:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>an umlautted n, as an homage to Spinal Tap.</em>\r\n\r\nSounds like a
    candidate for Unicode."
  created: '2007-03-26 06:45:32'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>\"It's like a pair of eyes. You're looking at the umlaut, and it's looking
    at you.\"\r\n-- David St. Hubbins </em>\r\n\r\nI think they want it (the 'n\u0308')
    to only be assembled out of some sequence of tedious demiglyphs. The futureproof
    standard with enough space for \"forever\" used up all the best code points for
    the 720\xB0 rotated extreme 'e', the deformed-P with dot below ('\u203D') and
    other typographic gems. They are running scared now and very picky about what
    they will add. The Snark's only chance at officaldom, for example, is if it evolves
    into a form that looks similar to, but not exactly like a tilde-on-a-dot. I think.\r\n\r\nI
    should have gone to bed already, and not peeked back in on this thread! At least
    we're not debating <em>this</em>: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Talk:Heavy_metal_umlaut#n-umlaut\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-26 07:22:16'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: ">> an umlautted n, as an homage to Spinal Tap.\r\n> Sounds like a candidate
    for Unicode.\r\n\r\nIt is in Unicode. The Unicode Standard encodes it as <em>U+006E
    U+0308</em>. The character does not have a precomposed form, but it does not necessarily
    need one. In an OpenType font, you\u2019d define a mark attachment feature <em>mark</em>
    so that \"n\" followed by \"dieresiscomb\" snap into place, and optionally, you
    could also supply a precomposed glyph named \"uni006E0308\" that you\u2019d access
    through the <em>ccmp</em> feature. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-27 08:35:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>It is in Unicode.</em>\r\n\r\nNot much use if the font (such as helvetica.dfont,
    which many a web site calls for--and nothing this user can do to deny them) has
    combining accents which don't have a negative left sidebearing. I'm looking at
    Spin\xA8al Tap.\r\n\r\nSurely negative left sidebearing on (most) combining accents
    is a best practice?\r\n\r\nOr are there applications that position combining accents
    by backspacing them?"
  created: '2007-03-27 14:39:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Kerning pair perhaps?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-27 15:17:44'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>Not much use if the font (such as helvetica.dfont, which many a web site
    calls for</em>\r\n\r\nBut adding the n w/ umlaut to a new font would also not
    solve that problem. \r\n\r\n<em>and nothing this user can do to deny them)</em>\r\n\r\nSwitch
    to Opera? They offer a lot of style sheet control for the user. Or install the
    Firefox developer's toolbar add-on, then write up your own style sheet override
    that uses any face. No one is still really using IE are they?\r\n\r\n<strong><em>Surely
    negative left sidebearing on (most) combining accents is a best practice?</em></strong>\r\n\r\nI'd
    really like to know the current consensus on that.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-28 05:19:15'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\nI believe a negative sidebearing for combining accents is a
    fine design solution which works well in \"primitive\" applications. Ideally,
    such font should also contain mark positioning. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-28 07:57:50'
- author:
    name: Village
  body: Besides its use in the name of a certain mock-rock group, Ndieresis and ndieresis
    are used in the Malagasy language, but the glyphs do not have "standalone" Unicode
    indices (yet). They can be made using ccmp, as Adam notes.
  created: '2007-03-28 16:26:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Ideally, such font should also contain mark positioning.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat's
    the code for that?"
  created: '2007-03-28 17:34:48'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>What\u2019s the code for that?</em>\r\n\r\nYou'll have to use [[VOLT]]
    if you want to do mark positioning. The [[AFDKO]] (v2.0) can't do it yet."
  created: '2007-03-29 02:48:37'
- author:
    name: Mighty Pete
  body: "\"Predictably enough, I\u2019m with Christopher on this one. I\u2019ll also
    go so far as to add that if you hijack features for your own purposes, you are
    making a font that can reasonably be called a hack, or even buggy.\"\r\n\r\nA
    HACK ? You want to talk about a HACK look no further that CS3.\r\n\r\nThree programs
    made by one company and all handle Open Type fonts differently.\r\n\r\nThat would
    be Photoshop, Indesign and Illustrator.. Turn on Ornaments in Indesign.. Nope
    can't do it that can only be accomplished in Photoshop. Turn on Stylistic Alternates
    in InDesign.. Nope can't do that also you can only do that in Photoshop.\r\n\r\nTurn
    on Stylistic set 01 in Photoshop or Illustrator. Nope can't do that also. You
    only can do that in Indesign.. See a pattern here of nobody is keeping track of
    what the other programmers are doing ?\r\n\r\nDo you think they could have hid
    the open type features panel much further down the list. It's only three menus
    deep.\r\n\r\nFont lab has the right idea, give you a list of options and let you
    turn them on in any order you want. Don't have to go searching for it or turning
    one option only at a time before the three menus close again..\r\n\r\nThe whole
    glyph pallet is a hack. You don't need that, Font designers can actually program
    it if aalt list was being used like it is suppose to be used, to build a list
    of option buttons into the application. \r\n\r\nIt's no wonder people keep building
    fonts with everything in the wrong place.\r\n\r\nThere trying to get there hard
    work to work with stupid open type implemented programs above.\r\n\r\nI'm astonished
    at how poorly the open type features are written into the above three applications
    now that I'm testing my font on them.\r\n\r\nJust read the aalt list and give
    them buttons for every option listed. Don't bury them on auto closing menus three
    layers down."
  created: '2008-10-16 07:53:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Pete, I'm afraid this is not news.\r\nThe folks at Adobe, in the different
    departments of type and the several applications involved, have been aware of
    the problems with OpenType application support since they first introduced it,
    and their attention has been drawn to the problems by others (such as <a href=\"http://www.shinntype.com/Writing/BigThing.pdf\">myself</a>),
    since at least 2002.\r\nFor many reasons--the most telling of which is that expert
    typography is an insignificant part of the graphic design industry --fixing the
    problems is simply not a priority, although some progress has been made, in Illustrator
    for instance, where the OT features palette can be brought to the top level.\r\n\r\nI
    for one am grateful that OpenType exists (and we do have Adobe to thank for that),
    despite any flaws, inherent or in application support.\r\nAnd I'm really excited
    about the OpenType support in the upcoming MyFonts.com redesign.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-16 18:52:27'
- author:
    name: Mighty Pete
  body: " I'm actually glad also that it exists because the fonts I make and want
    to make would be impossible with out Open Type but still the implementations of
    it are totally inconsistent. I know that this is not a new problem but really
    has this feature not been around for 8 years already? You know how I found this
    thread, Googling how to turn on Stylistic Alternatives on in Indesign. Three programs
    with the same suite code all handling Open Type fonts and not one doing it the
    same. Different menus, different options. It may be a hack alright and I write
    in all my fonts I'll fix it as soon as Open Type programs get fixed up and work
    the way they are suppose to work. I have two options, break the rules and give
    them more content or leave them out and give them nothing. Actually later I found
    this list and it shows the sorry state open type support is in programs.\r\n\r\nHere
    I'll have to shorten the link, warning it's a one page pdf document.\r\n\r\nhttp://tinyurl.com/4cavo4\r\n\r\nI'm
    moving options around to get them working somehow because the feature support
    is inconsistent. If people have a problem with that then don't use those options.\r\n\r\nIt's
    not a big problem if everyone owns all three of those programs but that is a pipe
    dream. If they only own one they are at a serious disadvantage.\r\n\r\nThat glyph
    pallet gets you around the problem of older fonts not being able to get a hold
    of glyphs because they were not programed into a feature but now days it has the
    effect of breaking features if they are now programed in. Where is the ornaments
    feature ? If you programed it in CORRECTLY it is now  broken in Indesign.\r\n\r\nWorks
    the Photoshop and you have to hack one a time in Indesign to do the same thing.
    Actually what you are doing is forcing the user to try to figure out how to program
    your font that they never made don't have a clue where the glyphs are, what there
    names are and how many into programming it onto a little substitution list..\r\n\r\nNow
    that is consistent.\r\n\r\n On a font that has 10,000 glyphs that the menu consistently
    insists to show the entire font every time you try to type something in.\r\n\r\nOh
    that's a better idea alright.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-16 20:07:29'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Very interesting, this thread shows how much we look differently at type
    functionality\u2026\r\nI have a pair of questions:\r\n\r\n- I am trying a functionality,
    which substitutes groups of letters with politypes. I placed the most important,
    basic substitutions as discretionary ligatures, and then I added other substitutions
    into separate Stylistic Sets, so the user will be able to avoid an excessively
    decorated text.\r\nIf the additional ligatures are \u2013 say \u2013 in stylistic
    sets ss03 to ss05, would it be better to duplicate all the substitution features
    in subsequent sets? i.e. Would it be better to have ss05 contain all the possible
    substitutions or just the more decorative additions?\r\n\r\nI wonder about this,
    since some additions concern letters of different height, which the user should
    be able to turn off while mantaining politypes resting within the regular height\u2026\r\n\r\n-
    Since I would like to avoid duplications, may I just duplicate (according to the
    advice given before) the ones I consider \"stylistic alternates\" in both [salt]
    and a stylistic set? I find this goofy, since I prefer to use [ssXX] for substitutions
    that involve a set of more letterforms\u2026"
  created: '2008-12-10 16:05:28'
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: "I just realized this is an older topic brought back to life. Thought i was
    having a Dej\xE1 Vu. \r\n\r\nI've been working on an OT version of a recent hand
    lettering font for my day job. I had 3 cap I's for it: one standard, one swash,
    and one just as a chosen alternate. In the aalt feature I just added a straight
    sub for that letter for the alternate and it became available in the glyph menu
    of both Illustrator and InDesign. If I were to add it to the salt feature it would
    be presumably be accessible through Photoshop as well. Is using the aalt feature
    like this considered OK or is that in a sense a hijack as well?"
  created: '2008-12-15 18:25:31'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: I hope someone replies, maybe I should have started a new thread, but I thought
    this was appropriate. :=)
  created: '2008-12-15 18:46:22'
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: "Can you define what you mean by politypes. That one wasn't in my dictionary
    and so it might make things clearer to understand the nature of substitution that
    you want to do. \r\n\r\nIf you are talking about multiple glyphs to be substituted
    by a single combined glyph, then you have to label it as a ligature. Not all ligatures
    must be substituted automatically. Besides the discretionary ligatures you could
    also employ the feature clig. That lets you define the context of a ligature,
    however, both calt and liga features must be active for it to work as far as I've
    seen.\r\n\r\nYou could consider a new post as this won't be on the front page
    and its kinda long. \r\nps. \r\nSorry about responding to you're original question
    with another question.\r\n\r\nStephen"
  created: '2008-12-15 20:03:36'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Thanks Stephen, maybe I'll start a new thread.\r\nI used \"politypes\" to
    make a distinction from normal ligatures, since the name ligatures to me is more
    related to lowercase, as it came about in current writing, when the need for writing
    faster arose.\r\nMy politypes (politipi) are multiple glyphs and mostly formed
    by two uppercase.\r\nNone of those is contextual (so no [calt], for now), and
    I have divided them between [liga] and [dlig], leaving on [liga] only the one
    really needed (for example [T_T]).\r\nHope my question is a little clearer now\u2026
    :=)\r\n\r\nYour question is strictly about [aalt], I'm sorry I am unable to answer,
    as I was wondering myself if [aalt] could be used just to make all alternatives
    grouped in the glyph palette of InDesign, or if its use needs to be justified
    by more important issues\u2026 :=)"
  created: '2008-12-16 20:58:44'
- author:
    name: delusion
  body: "I apologize in advance for resurrecting such an old thread, but just like
    Mighty Pete, I got here exactly the same way - trying to google how to turn on
    stylistic alternates in InDesign for a font I'm creating.\r\n\r\nI also agree
    with Thomas Phinney in that \"hijacking\" OpenType features is a bad idea.\r\n\r\nSo,
    Adobe, quit making us \"hijack\" OpenType features.  \"Hijacking\" OpenType is
    a lot better than not doing the work to create a flexible typography option.  I
    find the tone of Phinney's post rather galling, as it's the company he works for
    which has forced my hand.  What are the other options?  Offering different fonts
    and going back to the bad old days before OpenType?  Not even remotely imaginable.\r\n\r\nThe
    best solution would be for Adobe products to actually support OpenType features
    consistently and fully.  What I'm doing with my typeface is, in some circumstances,
    not really covered in OpenType, so my original plan was to create ten different
    stylistic sets, not including the default.  I can't do this, so then I was forced
    to \"hijack\" features to get them to work at all, only to find out how woefully
    Illustrator is behind the times, and then to discover that the common feature
    tag support between programs WITHIN CS5 isn't even consistent.\r\n\r\nI'm very
    irritated that I'm being forced to hijack features due to inconsistent and incomplete
    support in CS5 for issues that involve OpenType feature tags that have been documented
    for at least 11 years.  The <salt> tag may be older, but I see references to it
    in the spec change logs that go back to at least 2000."
  created: '2011-04-30 06:59:48'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Delusion, remember that you're not addressing \"Adobe\" here, because \"Adobe\"
    does not read Typophile. Adobe's type team does (or at least some members of it),
    but they want mostly the same things you do. It doesn't matter because the product
    teams do not perceive there being popular demand for these features, and/or think
    very few of their users will care.\r\n\r\nIf you want to have an effect on the
    features in Photoshop, Illustrator and InDesign, besides complaining here, log
    a feature request for each affected product.\r\n\r\nhttps://www.adobe.com/cfusion/mmform/index.cfm?name=wishform\r\n\r\nI'm
    curious about what you were trying to do and why stylistic sets were not a viable
    workaround.\r\n\r\nBest of luck. I do know it's frustrating. (Also note that I
    haven't worked for Adobe for over two years.)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-04-30 20:15:44'
- author:
    name: delusion
  body: "I apologize for delivering the brunt of my irritation to your doorstep.\r\n\r\nI
    find it so strange that Adobe, or the product teams of the individual products,
    or whoever, doesn't make complying with OpenType as robustly as possible a priority.
    \ When I think of typography, Adobe is one of the first few companies I think
    of, and it's a standard they helped create.\r\n\r\nThe reason Stylistic Sets aren't
    a solution for what I'm doing is that Indesign is the only of the four CS5 programs
    I use that supports it.  Premiere probably isn't that big of a deal for me personally,
    as on the rare occasions I use it it's usually just for personal projects.  Indesign
    supports it, but Illustrator and Photoshop scratch their collective heads at it.\r\n\r\nThe
    typeface I'm creating is historically related to Win Crouwel's New Alphabet, so
    the options I'm creating are more appropriate for Stylistic Sets than the \"traditional\"
    OpenType features.  An example of this is that I'm providing a set for an overline
    to represent a doubled character, a monospace set, a monocase set, etc.  OpenType
    has a unicase tag, but none of CS5 supports it, and a monocase tag isn't in OpenType.
    \ The overlining for doubled characters - effectively a set of double-letter ligatures
    - is too idiosyncratic to even consider as an OpenType  feature tag.  Stylistic
    Sets would be ideal, but most of this is per-pixel based work and best suited
    to Photoshop.  To be a bit more practical, it would help if re-naming the Stylistic
    Sets were supported, so that someone wouldn't have to guess or consult a cheat
    sheet."
  created: '2011-04-30 21:58:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The company that Adobe used to be in the Warnock era would have done the
    right thing and supported the entire collection of Adobe apps with all opentype
    features and perhaps even made them work the same way on all of the apps.  Today's
    Adobe regime is a different beast.  They have become large enough and powerful
    enough in the marketplace to feel free to ignore their fine heritage. They have
    achieved the Peter principle size of bureaucracy where pure organizational divisions
    led by pure organizational  managers with pure organizational egos rarely perceive
    each-other's common goals and customer needs in favor of the cost-benefit analysis
    seen with only a bean-counter's mentality. There have been repeated and consorted
    attempts by users to at least include a basic glyph palette in Photoshop let alone
    stylistic sets.  Adobe has ignored them.  Before I hear the mantra of \"submit
    it as a feature request via their website\" yet again, I will mention that I have
    and we have and no-one gave a damn except the folks there who are too low on the
    totem pole to have a voice. \r\nThe catch 22 of user requests is that they can't
    request what they don't understand and they can't understand what does not exist
    in a sensible enough way to reveal its true worth.  Stylistic sets buried 3 levels
    deep with no way of knowing how they function because catchy names like ss01,
    ss02, ss03, don't mean diddley s\xDFit to the average user.\r\n\r\nI wonder how
    many feature requests came through the Adobe web site in the early 1980's for
    a thing called PostScript? Probably was no such link then--probably no web site
    then either;-P  Guess what, Warnock went ahead and did it anyway even though most
    potential users of the time did not have a clue what it meant. Warnock and Company
    then \"Splained it to them Lutsy\" and next thing you know, we had the DTP revolution.
    \ Of course, Warnock was a visionary and these guys now are just Harvard MBAs
    whose idea of vision does not venture past their divisions current quarterly profit
    report."
  created: '2011-04-30 23:32:30'
- author:
    name: delusion
  body: "> Stylistic sets buried 3 levels deep with no way of knowing how they function
    because catchy names like ss01, ss02, ss03, don't mean diddley s\xDFit to the
    average user.\r\n\r\nWouldn't that be \"diddley \u0283it\"?"
  created: '2011-05-01 01:27:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: yup
  created: '2011-05-01 03:15:24'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I just have trouble understanding the presumed conversations between the
    Office/AdobeApps groups, and the respective Type Groups:\r\n\r\nTG:\"if you do
    it that way, you'll break the fonts.\"\r\nO/AA G: \"okay\"\r\n\r\nDon't sound
    much like a standard to me.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/train_wreck_at_montparnasse_1895_small_5158.jpg]\r\n\"<a
    href=\"http://james.lab6.com/2006/10/29/the-trainwreck-industry/\">A woman below
    was killed.</a> The cause seems to have been an excess of paperwork.\"(?!)\r\n\r\nHope
    this all works on the web. :o\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-03 02:38:40'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I hear and share your frustration.\r\n\r\nGetting a glyph palette in Photoshop
    would be fabulous. The best current work around is to get what you want in Illustrator
    and copy/paste it into Photoshop. (Illustrator and Photoshop share a text engine,
    while InDesign has a different one.)\r\n\r\nTo be fair, Adobe was big and silo'd
    even before Warnock and Geschke left day-to-day running of the company. It's gotten
    worse, but that is as much a function of pure size as anything else.\r\n\r\nMuch
    as I wish I had stylistic sets in Illustrator and Photoshop, and that InDesign
    and the others all supported showing \"friendly names\" for Stylistic Sets, I
    understand the motivations of the product managers for these products. As basic
    as typography is to me, and to most of the people reading posts on a site called
    \"Typophile,\" the product managers are looking at what gets user demand and what
    solves the problems that users complain about. The PMs can do the stuff that they
    are really sure will sell, or they can take a chance that if more/better typography
    is dangled in front of the users that those users will turn out to appreciate
    it in the end. As long as the list of sure winners is sufficient, the stuff you
    and I really want is not making the cut.  :(\r\n\r\nChris: The golden age might
    not have been as golden as you think. Some time ask me in person and in private
    exactly how we got the big burst of OpenType features in InDesign 2.0.....\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-05-04 05:03:40'
date: '2007-03-20 16:25:19'
title: Stylistic Alternatives - Indesign ?

---
