---
author:
  name: Ricardo Cordoba
  picture: 110715
body: "While Googling the name of Helvetica's designer, Max Miedinger, I came upon
  <a href=\"http://suzyriceimage.com/AUTOBIOGRAPHY_2.html\" target=\"_blank\">this
  startling account</a> by Susan Elizabeth (Suzy) Rice, creator of the Star Wars logo.\r\n\r\nIf
  her words are to be taken literally, then Joseph Goebbels designed a typeface! I'm
  thinking that perhaps he gave the order to start using sans serif faces, but as
  far as designing a face himself... Sheesh. Does anyone have information on this,
  or any idea what book about German type design Ms. Rice might be referring to? (And
  Gary Hustwit, do you have any thoughts on this?)"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I think she must have got that info from "2002 Honest Fonts" -- now sadly
    offline.
  created: '2007-03-20 19:45:51'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I have read most of that (rambling\u2026) post by Ms Rice & there are a lot
    of inaccuracies in there. Especially about the Nazi's having designed the forerunner
    of Helvetica. (BTW The german spelling of Helvetica is Helvetica and NOT Helvetika).\r\nAnother
    miss: the alleged authorship of the early Disney-cartoons. It is widely accepted
    nowadays that Mr Disney's collaborators had a greater part that they got credited
    for, especially Ub Iwerks who gave life to Mickey Mouse.\r\nMy conclusion: it's
    a lot of b*llsh*t."
  created: '2007-03-20 20:00:34'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Suzy also took part in a discussion a couple of years ago on Typographica
    that touched on this:\r\n\r\nhttp://typographi.com/001002.php"
  created: '2007-03-20 20:09:16'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Thanks for that link, Mark.\r\n\r\nBert, I feel like there are many inaccuracies
    in that account, too.\r\n\r\nNick, can you tell a bit more about \"2002 Honest
    Fonts\"? What it was about, who created it? I don't think I ever had the pleasure."
  created: '2007-03-20 20:18:45'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "2002 honest fonts... http://web.archive.org/web/*/http://www.somethingawful.com/fake/fontsite/index.htm\r\n\r\ngone
    but not forgotten.\r\n\r\n>I came upon this startling account \r\n\r\n\"Facts.
    Accuracy. A Jedi craves not these things.\""
  created: '2007-03-20 21:11:12'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: I added quotation marks around "Helvetika" in the title of this post. Thanks,
    Mr. Vanderveen!
  created: '2007-03-20 21:12:44'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Thanks, Si... good ole Way Back Machine!\r\n\r\nNow I understand Nick's subtle
    comment.  ;-D"
  created: '2007-03-20 21:17:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks SI.\r\nI was thinking of this ad from the site:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Gramps_5228.jpg]"
  created: '2007-03-20 22:26:12'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Helvetica: as American as pizza and apple pie!  ;-)\r\n\r\nThanks for the
    laugh, Nick!"
  created: '2007-03-20 23:06:43'
- author:
    name: swiss dots
    picture: 111368
  body: "<cite>it is Goebbels' type design that is regarded as being the origination
    \r\nof what was later (re)designed by Miedinger and named as Helvetica</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    a bunch of nonsense. "
  created: '2007-03-21 04:09:01'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Danke, Gary.  :-)
  created: '2007-03-21 04:45:16'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/27912\">Erik Spiekermann has identified
    Schelter Grotesk as being the original model for Akzidenz</a>, although without
    much elaboration. Definitely not the work of Goebbels.\r\n\r\nAnd I would love
    to find some more information on the Helvetica/Schelter Grotesque connection,
    because in Meggs claimed Akzidenz to be the predecessor in <em>History of Graphic
    Design</em>, and that has been reprinted as fact in other books on type."
  created: '2007-03-21 05:01:46'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: If she thinks her logo even remotely resembles Helvetica, then this German
    proto-Helvetica she refers to could be any Grotesk, even Futura.
  created: '2007-03-21 05:19:10'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Thanks for the link, jpad -- very useful information from Herr Spiekermann.
    I can't find any index entries for Schelter Grotesque in the books I have at home...
    Maybe this would require visiting a public library.
  created: '2007-03-21 05:19:31'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "im not really sure how much this scheltersche-helvetica-link is a PR-story
    to sell FF Bau and how much it is really worth. when looking at the german specimen
    book that is available to me (a fat one by bauersche schriftgiesserei around 1900),
    many grotesks at that time (or earlier, in the 1880ies) could've been a precedessor
    to helvetica, altough they're wackier than scheltersche. but then again, why look
    70 years from the starting point of helvetica, why not a bit less and look at
    AG?\r\n\r\nbut im by no way an expert myself, so this is all speculation and i
    would be very interested in hearing eriks extended view of this issue, and why
    exactly he thinks scheltersche grotesk is the father of helvetica.\r\n\r\nfor
    german readers: http://www.fontblog.de/C420185419/E430231085/index.html"
  created: '2007-03-21 10:45:13'
- author:
    name: swiss dots
    picture: 111368
  body: "As they say, a picture is worth...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/haas1_6117.jpg]\r\n\r\nHere's
    a still from the film, of Haas' original trials of Neue Haas Grotesk. Akzidenz
    Grotesk one line, Neue Haas Grotesk the next. I've seen a fair amount of the materials
    associated with the creation of Helvetica, and AG was the only other typeface
    I saw in this context.\r\n\r\nImage courtesy of Alfred Hoffmann.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\n-Gary"
  created: '2007-03-21 11:47:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hmm. Looks like Arial is every bit as original as Helvetica.\r\nAnd one has
    to admire the irony with which Robin and Patricia  straightened out the R leg
    that Max had bent.~\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-21 15:49:44'
- author:
    name: swiss dots
    picture: 111368
  body: What was that quote again, bad artists steal, great artists appropriate?
  created: '2007-03-21 16:51:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey, if thinking Goebbels made Helv would reduce its use, I'm all for it!
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-21 16:59:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "\"Speaking of earlier types, Goudy says: The old fellows stole all of our
    best ideas.\"\r\n--Frederic Goudy"
  created: '2007-03-21 17:05:28'
- author:
    name: matthew_desmond
    picture: 110578
  body: "\"Talent borrows, genius steals.\"\r\n-Oscar Wilde"
  created: '2007-03-21 17:36:34'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: I'm working on a theory that could hang Helvetica on a white southern (USA)
    male of Scotch-Irish extraction. That should kill it.
  created: '2007-03-21 20:59:02'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>why look 70 years from the starting point of helvetica, why not a bit
    less and look at AG?</em>\r\n\r\nRight on, Thierry. And it's what most published
    accounts on the origins of Helvetica state.\r\n\r\nGary, great picture. Is there
    some way to send it to Suzy Rice?  ;-D  \r\nCan't wait to see your film, even
    if I have to go to Rochester or Seattle to see it.  :-)"
  created: '2007-03-21 22:35:11'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: What's that Seattle biz? I haven't seen anything mentioning it coming here.
    Typecon? If it's being screened beforehand, count me in!
  created: '2007-03-22 03:12:09'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Yup. <a href="http://helveticafilm.com/screenings.html" target="_blank">August
    1st.</a> (Scroll all the way to the bottom to see the TypeCon date.) See ya there,
    Dan!  :-)
  created: '2007-03-22 04:54:02'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "As to the Star Wars thing, a student at my school had to do a mock \"type
    specimen\" with a history and example of a typeface. He grabbed the crap shareware
    \"Star Wars\" typeface off of God-knows-where and used it for his piece. The history
    he showed mentioned that it was a variation of Helvetica Black.\r\n\r\nI thought
    to myself, you've got to be kidding. NOT EVEN REMOTELY SIMILAR, and yet you parade
    your ignorance before the whole world? Sheesh."
  created: '2007-03-22 05:13:50'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: They're all wrong. Al Gore created Helvetica.
  created: '2007-03-22 14:09:08'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "This thread reminded me of an illustration from Milton Glaser's <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Design-Dissent-Socially-Politically-Graphics/dp/1592533078/ref=pd_bbs_sr_1/104-9825562-5367963?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1174572452&sr=8-1\">Design
    of Dissent</a> showing an Arial alphabet in which swastikas had been grafted onto
    <a href=\"http://lsdspace.com/tipo/tipo.html#atypi\">dots</a>, punctuation, etc.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-22 14:11:07'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Arial alphabet in which \r\n\r\nThe designer of that piece, a Spanish designer
    I believe, gave a talk at ATypI Helsinki in which the joke was explained. \r\n\r\nBack
    on topic, clearly Suzy drank a bit too much Romulan Ale when she wrote that article,
    or relied on \"the force\" instead of doing real research. "
  created: '2007-03-22 14:52:58'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em> Romulan Ale</em>\r\n\r\nWrong universe. :-)\r\n\r\nHarking back to that
    Typographica discussion, I too was skeptical of her explanation. But I have the
    Star Wars DVD set with all the extras and, sure enough, they did use an outlined
    Helvetica Black in the early ads, not the famous logo. I think she really did
    start with that, redrawing it by eye, taking some liberties with the forms, stylizing
    this and that, and ended up with something quite different. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: jasonc
      picture: 111045
    body: "Romulan Ale\r\nWrong universe. :-)\r\n...\r\n\r\nYes, I think she drank
      too much blue milk.\r\n\r\nJason c"
    created: '2007-03-22 18:35:22'
  created: '2007-03-22 15:07:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bbs_6715.jpg]\r\nBarnhart Brothers &
    Spindler: <em>Modern Gothic,</em> from their <em>Preferred Type Faces</em> (Specimen
    Book No. 10), Chicago, 1913. Apologies for my temperamental scanner, but it's
    kinda cool ennit."
  created: '2007-03-22 17:56:04'
- author:
    name: davegk
    picture: 112374
  body: Can someone please explain to me the graphics gallery on Suzy's website?  I'm
    trying to understand how someone who created the Star Wars logo went on to produce
    the stuff displayed on her site.
  created: '2007-03-23 21:32:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'She was seduced by the dark side? '
  created: '2007-03-23 22:52:43'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Star Wars was intentionally cheesy; maybe George purposely hired someone  who
    was likely to churn out a cheesy logo reminiscent of space operas.
  created: '2007-03-23 22:57:32'
- author:
    name: sandrosandro
    picture: 112363
  body: "Hell yes, helvetica was developed during the Civil War. :D\r\nCatastrophic"
  created: '2007-03-24 10:42:02'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: There are a lot of parallels between fonts and Star Wars... clone wars, good,
    evil, droids, trade federation (ATypI), odd-ball characters etc., etc.,
  created: '2007-03-24 15:45:24'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: PostScript syntax Yoda's speech mannerisms reads like.
  created: '2007-03-24 16:17:26'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: 'The Force = notan? '
  created: '2007-03-25 06:41:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, there's certainly a lot of orientalism in Star Wars.\r\nWhich is most
    definitely not cheesy.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-25 16:05:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The plot of Star Wars always struck me as being straight out of a medieval
    romance, so a sort of high-tech blackletter would have been cool.\r\nBut thank
    the Force it was before the Trajan invasion.\r\nThe block sans mod (especially
    version 2 with the ligatures), owes something to Ed Benguiat's Planet of the Apes
    logo.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/B00004W21Q_5438.01.LZZZZZZZ.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/003_STARWARCRP~Star-Wars-Posters_6536.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SW_6118.jpg]\r\n\r\nOn
    a related note, The Lord of the Rings logo was a real disappointment, especially
    as JRR Tolkein created his own runic alphabet and language (how cooly metaversal
    is that). Roman lettering is completely wrong -- uncials would have been more
    acceptable."
  created: '2007-03-25 18:52:31'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Geez, I had no idea the DVD cover for \"Planet of the Apes\" gives away the
    ending of the movie. That's just D-U-M-B. Or mean.  :-D\r\n\r\nAs for \"Lord of
    the Rings\", Ralph Bakshi's 1978 feature had just that: uncials![img:sites/default/files/old-images/The_Lord_of_the_Rings_(1978)_3986.jpg]"
  created: '2007-03-26 00:55:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> On a related note, The Lord of the Rings logo was a real disappointment,
    \r\n\r\nThat would be the 'localized' version of the logo, the original hand drawn
    on parchment flyers distributed around the Shire where much better."
  created: '2007-03-26 03:26:06'
- author:
    name: jennings
  body: "A Very old thread, but still relevant.\r\nIt seems many have questioned Suzi
    Rice's claim to the authorship of the star wars logo...\r\nThere are strong questions
    concerning her grasp, or mastery of type and it's derivations.\r\nThere is an
    absolute disconnect of the present, pridefully posted, yet disastrous work, and
    that of 1977's star wars logo.  \r\nIt is incongruous for the artistic direction
    behind a successful design to have to argue for pages with such indirect, and
    circumstantial references.  \r\nHer need for credit is clear,  but her claims
    amount to hearsay.   She lacks the ease or control of a confident designer, as
    exhibited by her choice of arguments.  \r\nShe is making a desperate claim to
    an artistry obviously just beyond her own graphic ability.  \r\nHer on-line portfolio
    proves her inability to differentiate quality.\r\nLooking back into her bio page...
    \ I noticed that her husband of that era was Tony Lane.  The plot thickens...He
    might've known something about type?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-25 04:05:08'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>It seems many have questioned Suzi Rice\u2019s claim to the authorship
    of the star wars logo</em>\r\n\r\nCan you cite any examples, Aaron? Your comment
    has more assumptions than facts. Also, her website is <a href=\"http://suzyriceimage.com/\">under
    reconstruction as of May 18</a>."
  created: '2009-05-25 17:56:18'
- author:
    name: toad42
    picture: 112442
  body: It's worth noting that the Star Wars logo's typeface-style borrowing from
    Planet of the Apes's typeface style may not be serendipitous. Star Wars was perhaps
    the most thoroughly marketed science-fiction film up until the time of its release.
    The previous record holder was Planet of the Apes. The folks marketing Star Wars
    studied Planet of the Apes's marketing campaign when they were designing their
    own campaign, so they would have been heavily exposed to that logo.
  created: '2010-09-01 07:22:09'
- author:
    name: suzyrice
  body: "Please read the \"UPDATE, September 23, 2010\" at the footer of my post at
    this page:\r\n\r\nhttp://suzyriceimage.com/gallery/about/\r\n\r\nScroll to the
    bottom for the UPDATE.  \r\n\r\nTo this site's owner, the remarks I make on that
    UPDATE are not for purposes of derogating your site, which is nice.  I'm addressing
    the remarks in my UPDATE to the immature few making such foolish remarks here.\r\n\r\nhttp://suzyriceimage.com/gallery/about/\r\nScroll
    to bottom, read \"UPDATE, September 23, 2010\""
  created: '2010-09-23 08:25:35'
- author:
    name: suzyrice
  body: "@ jennings and a few of the rest of you:\r\n\r\nMy site is composed with
    actual events that I lived through and experienced in my lifetime.  There are
    always people such as yourself who can't fathom the achievements of others, but
    I assure you, the STAR WARS logo was one I drew, by hand, and in the presence
    of other people.  Your suggestions to the contrary are bizarre, to say the least."
  created: '2010-09-23 08:27:42'
- author:
    name: suzyrice
  body: "@ Nick Shinn - 25.Mar.2007 10.52am\r\n\r\nThat \"receding perspective\" Star
    Wars logo on that poster you've displayed there (second from top) was the logo
    that was drawn by Dan Perri.\r\n\r\nThe logo I drew is presented in that additional
    poster you presented, third from the top (or, the last one presented at the bottom
    of your stack of images).\r\n\r\nDan Perri was contracted to design the titles(*)
    for the film (\"Star Wars\" later titled \"Star Wars, Episode IV...\").  Thus,
    that receding perspective logo he drew; which, however, didn't work visually for
    George when he applied it to the screen, in the title treatment.\r\n\r\nThus,
    the logo (last poster in your stack there) I drew for the Exhibitor's Bid Brochure
    (\"STAR WARS\" stacked on two lines), which George liked, he used to replace Perri's
    logo.  That's how my logo ended up being the main title treatment and, of course,
    trademarked in use for the entire film episodes, all, as also marketing of the
    film, etc.\r\n\r\nI also designed a poster for John Williams and touring symphony
    performance of the soundtrack, which George liked and used as Christmas cards
    for Lucasfilm later, as also some marketing elements I designed later once the
    logo I designed/drew was just about everywhere used for everything.\r\n\r\n(*)
    titles for a film, or, a \"title treatment\" is the visual stream of typed information
    that is embedded in a motion picture to present a film's credits;\r\n\r\nWhereas,
    a \"logo\" is the name or title of a film only.\r\n\r\nThus, a title treatment
    INCLUDES a logo or title-in-type but also includes the full array of credit information,
    and is a \"treatment\" or type of animation-of-sorts that is embedded in a film
    (how the typed information is designed to show visually, etc., a \"treatment\"
    of \"title\")."
  created: '2010-09-23 08:38:11'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "According to MyFonts, Schelter Grotesk was originally called Breite Grotesk,
    and appeared \"in the 1886 specimen book of the Schelter & Giesecke foundry\".
    The specimen there does look more like Helvetica than Akzidenz Grotesk does.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    the original Breite Grotesk seems not to have been identical to the the Schelter
    Grotesk specimen on MyFonts:\r\n\r\n[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/20994543@N04/4552638955/]]\r\n\r\nInstead,
    that looks simply like many of the other sans-serif faces of the same period,
    without much that suggests, at least to my untrained eye, that it is a precursor
    of Helvetica, which differs in important ways from the old Grotesques."
  created: '2010-09-23 14:49:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Scroll to bottom, read \"UPDATE, September 23, 2010\"\r\n\r\nVery entertaining.
    Thanks!\r\n\r\n\"I write, \u201Cpopularly accredited to\u201D Goebbels because
    Goebbels POPULARIZED THE USE of a typeface that was later copyritten in design
    by Swiss font designer, Max Miedinger. The font, without copyright nor author
    attribution, was plastered all over Germany by Goebbels\"\r\n\r\nSo would anyone
    have a problem with \"Windsor, popularly accredited to Woody Allen\" or \"Comic
    Sans, popularly accredited to Dan Gilbert\"?"
  created: '2010-09-23 19:00:20'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@suzyrice\r\n\"the gossipy lot\" \"gossipy-arty-type\"\r\n\r\nI love it.
    \r\n\r\nI'm sorry you think that the users of this site aren't grounded in \"drawing
    things by hand and talking to one another while reading books\". While there are
    a few here who do fit your description, for the most part people who participate
    on Typophile are in fact deeply versed in the written lore of design and typography,
    and revel in the hidden first hand account of the creation of a logo or typeface."
  created: '2010-10-22 01:52:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I draw a lot. But I don't paint, and I'm proud of that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-22 01:55:02'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: I doubt that Goebbels ever even considered designing a typeface. It would
    not fit his personality, for all I know about him. Has anyone here read his diaries?
    He was a very vain man, I am sure he would have mentioned such an endeavor.
  created: '2010-10-25 07:34:39'
date: '2007-03-20 19:29:16'
title: '"Helvetika": surprising story from designer of Star Wars logo'

---
