---
author:
  name: beton
body: Garamond premier pro display is installed via suitcase and in illustrator is
  working fine, stylistic alternate but in indesign is not working... Why is that?
  Other alternates work, for example discretionary alternates
comments:
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: Can you be more specific? What version of InDesign are you using? What kind
    of computer and OS? Is there a particular glyph or glyphs with which you are seeing
    this? Is it in Roman fonts, Italic fonts, or both?
  created: '2007-03-20 22:14:15'
- author:
    name: beton
  body: "I want an | a | glyph alternate and yes it exists. When I turn it on in opentype
    options in indesign it won't work.\r\nIn the end what action does turn on stylistic
    alternates?\r\n\r\nI got it via pressing alternate a glpyh ( stylistic)\r\nWindows
    XP; indesign cs2. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/aa_5118.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nThis
    is in illustrator\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/abc_5425.jpg]"
  created: '2007-03-20 22:36:57'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "In InDesign, stylistic alternates are acessed through the glyph palette.
    You can, for example, find the regular 'a' in the palette and select its available
    alternates from the \"flyout\" menu of the letter itself. Unlike Illustrator,
    there is no way to \"apply\" the feature with a button or menu item.\r\n\r\nDoes
    that answer your question? I might be misunderstanding..."
  created: '2007-03-21 17:20:26'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Christopher, \r\n\r\nis there a reason why in Garamond Premier Pro, Adobe
    chose to include substituions of lowercase letters with their \"final\" forms
    in the \"salt\" (stylistic alternates) feature but did not include the same substitutions
    in one of the \"ssXX\" (stylistic set) features, e.g. ss04? Also, these glyphs
    are not substituted in the \"fina\" (final forms) feature. \r\n\r\nSince the glyphs
    in question are even named \"a.end\", \"d.end\" etc., associating them with the
    \"fina\" feature would be an intuitive choice. \r\n\r\nPlease also see my <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/32399#comment-192387\">contribution
    in the other thread devoted to stylistic alternates</a>. \r\n\r\nBest, \r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-21 23:20:21'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>why in Garamond Premier Pro, Adobe chose to include substituions of
    lowercase letters with their \u201Cfinal\u201D forms in the \u201Csalt\u201D (stylistic
    alternates) feature but did not include the same substitutions in one of the \u201CssXX\u201D
    (stylistic set) features, e.g. ss04?</em>\r\n\r\nAm I right to believe that you
    think it would be a good idea if you could replace ALL the letters in a paragraph
    with their final forms, by simply applying one (or more) stylistic set(s)? Does
    the image below make any sense to you?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gpp_all_ends_5820.png]\r\n\r\n>
    <em>Also, these glyphs are not substituted in the \u201Cfina\u201D (final forms)
    feature.\r\nSince the glyphs in question are even named \u201Ca.end\u201D, \u201Cd.end\u201D
    etc., associating them with the \u201Cfina\u201D feature would be an intuitive
    choice.</em>\r\n\r\nReally? What happens if the apps decide to follow <a href=\"http://partners.adobe.com/public/developer/opentype/index_tag6.html#fina\">the
    spec for 'fina'</a> and make it active by default? Would you be happy to have
    to turn it off every time, because your text simply looks like this?:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gpp_some_ends_5882.png]"
  created: '2007-03-22 03:06:40'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Does the image below make any sense to you?\r\n\r\nAh! This is the image
    I get if I apply \"stylistic alternate\" in Illustrator to a run of text set in
    Garamond Premier Pro. Of course it does not make sense, typographically, to apply
    \"salt\" to an entire paragraph as you did. Similarly, it would not make sense
    to apply \"ordn\" or \"subs\" to an entire paragraph. The user applies these features
    on his or her discretion, to the glyphs he or she needs. \r\n\r\nThere are numerous
    fonts out there which have stylistic sets that don\u2019t work well when applied
    to entire words. \r\n\r\nTake Robert Slimbach\u2019s wonderful creation, Poetica
    Std: \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/poetica1_4163.jpg]\r\n\r\nAm I suggesting
    that one should apply <em>ss07</em> to an entire word or paragraph? \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/poetica2_3503.jpg]\r\n\r\nOr
    <em>ss11</em>? \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/poetica3_3798.jpg]\r\n\r\nNot
    really. One needs to apply the sets selectively, letter by letter. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/poetica4_3688.jpg]\r\n\r\nStill,
    you have not explained why something that is doable in Illustrator (apply <em>salt</em>
    to one, two or three letters at a time) should not be doable in InDesign (apply
    an <em>ssXX</em> to the same glyphs to produce an analogous effect). \r\n\r\nPoetica
    includes both a \"sub A from [A.1 A.2 A.3 ...]\"-style <em>salt</em> feature and
    eleven \"sub A by A.1\"-style <em>ssXX</em> sets. Garamond Premier Pro does it
    otherwise. Why? \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-22 04:32:32'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Of course it does not make sense, typographically, to apply \u201Csalt\u201D
    to an entire paragraph as you did.</em>\r\n\r\nNo, what I did was to simulate
    the effect of including the same substitutions (present in 'salt') in one Stylistic
    Set, as you suggested.\r\n\r\n> <em>Similarly, it would not make sense to apply
    \u201Cordn\u201D or \u201Csubs\u201D to an entire paragraph. The user applies
    these features on his or her discretion, to the glyphs he or she needs.</em>\r\n\r\nFrom
    this I infer that you understand the differences between 'salt' and 'ssXX', and
    how they're NOT the same thing. The 'salt' feature is designed to be applied at
    the user's discretion \u2014 in the sense that he/she has the freedom to decide
    what should be done in a particular situation \u2014 whereas 'ssXX' is designed
    to be applied throughout and make changes to a wide range of elements without
    requiring the user's decision about every single one of them.\r\n\r\n> <em>There
    are numerous fonts out there which have stylistic sets that don\u2019t work well
    when applied to entire words.</em>\r\n\r\nI consider that a bad implementation/usage
    of stylistic sets.\r\n\r\n> <em>Not really. One needs to apply the sets selectively,
    letter by letter.</em>\r\n\r\nThe appropriate feature to achieve such behavior
    is 'salt', not 'ssXX'.\r\n\r\n> <em>Still, you have not explained why something
    that is doable in Illustrator (apply salt to one, two or three letters at a time)
    should not be doable in InDesign (apply an ssXX to the same glyphs to produce
    an analogous effect).</em>\r\n\r\nYou've already answer that yourself: \"[...]
    it does not make sense, typographically [...]\".\r\n\r\n> <em>Poetica includes
    both a \u201Csub A from [A.1 A.2 A.3 \u2026]\u201D-style salt feature and eleven
    \u201Csub A by A.1\u201D-style ssXX sets. Garamond Premier Pro does it otherwise.
    Why?</em>\r\n\r\nI was not involved in the development of neither Poetica or Garamond
    Premier, so I can't say what thoughts went into them. But my view is, when Poetica
    was developed the ideas behind OpenType features and their implementations in
    the applications were not as mature as they were by the time when Garamond Premier
    was developed. Technically wise, Garamond Premier might embody more best practices
    than Poetica does. That's the price of being a pioneer; nothing is certain, so
    there's a good chance of not getting it right at the first time."
  created: '2007-03-22 06:14:07'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Miguel, \r\n\r\nthe <strong>feature description for <em>ss01\u2013ss20</em></strong>
    cites Poetica as an example. Are you saying that when <em>ssXX</em> was conceived,
    with Poetica being used as an example, Poetica actually was a bad implementation
    of the <em>ssXX</em> idea, because actually the idea was something else which
    however could not be exemplified at the time of the writing of the <em>ssXX</em>
    feature description by anything better than Poetica, which was a bad implementation
    of the idea but nonetheless is the one cited as an example? \r\n\r\n> The appropriate
    feature to achieve such behavior \r\n> [as in Poetica] is \u2018salt\u2019, not
    \u2018ssXX\u2019.\r\n\r\nBut what you\u2019re saying <strong>contradicts the OpenType
    specification</strong>, because the OpenType specification (read my lips:) <strong>uses
    Poetica as an example for <em>ssXX</em>!!!</strong>\r\n\r\nAm I to assume that
    Adobe now recommends to contradict the OpenType specification and disregard its
    recommendations for the <em>ssXX</em> feature because people who wrote up the
    <em>ss01\u2013ss20</em> feature description didn\u2019t know what they were doing?
    \r\n\r\nOr what exactly is it that you\u2019re saying, please? Thank you. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-03-22 06:28:53'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "OK, unlike you, I didn\u2019t \"simulate\" anything here. I just typeset
    the paragraph in Illustrator CS2 using Adobe Garamond Pro, clicked on the frame
    and then simply clicked on the \"Stylistic Alternate\" button on the OpenType
    palette: \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/adobegaramondpro_4810.jpg]\r\n\r\nAn
    Illustrator CS2 user is able to enable or disable stylistic alternates on a per-glyph
    basis, but also on entire words, sentences, paragraphs or text frames. It is up
    to the user\u2019s discretion to do or not to do this. \r\n\r\nSimilarly, an InDesign
    CS2 user is able to enable or disable stylistic sets on a per-glyph basis, but
    also on entire words, sentences, paragraphs or text frames. It is up to the user\u2019s
    discretion to do or not to do this. The difference between Illustrator and InDesign
    is that the first gives you just one alternate and the second gives you up to
    twenty. Right? \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-03-22 06:41:11'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "If we could redo Poetica's features today, we'd probably do a different combination
    of 'salt' and 'ssXX'. One possible solution comes to mind:\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    salt {\r\nsub A from [A.1 A.2 A.3];\r\nsub B from [B.1 B.2 B.3];\r\nsub C from
    [C.1 C.2 C.3];\r\n...\r\nsub Z from [Z.1 Z.2 Z.3];\r\n} salt;\r\n\r\nfeature ss01
    { # 1 -> 2\r\nsub [A.1 B.1 C.1 ... Z.1] by [A.2 B.2 C.2 ... Z.2];\r\n} ss01;\r\n\r\nfeature
    ss02 { # 1 -> 3\r\nsub [A.1 B.1 C.1 ... Z.1] by [A.3 B.3 C.3 ... Z.3];\r\n} ss02;\r\n\r\nfeature
    ss03 { # 2 -> 1\r\nsub [A.2 B.2 C.2 ... Z.2] by [A.1 B.1 C.1 ... Z.1];\r\n} ss03;\r\n\r\nfeature
    ss04 { # 2 -> 3\r\nsub [A.2 B.2 C.2 ... Z.2] by [A.3 B.3 C.3 ... Z.3];\r\n} ss04;\r\n\r\nfeature
    ss05 { # 3 -> 1\r\nsub [A.3 B.3 C.3 ... Z.3] by [A.1 B.1 C.1 ... Z.1];\r\n} ss05;\r\n\r\nfeature
    ss06 { # 3 -> 2\r\nsub [A.3 B.3 C.3 ... Z.3] by [A.2 B.2 C.2 ... Z.2];\r\n} ss06;\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nIn
    other words, the user would be able to switch between the different \"flavors\"
    of Poetica via 'ssXX', but first he/she would need to specify where he/she would
    like to see an alternate form, via 'salt'."
  created: '2007-03-22 06:43:59'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Miguel, \r\n\r\nPoetica includes up to 9 alternate variants for each uppercase
    letter. You'd quickly run out of the 20 ssXX sets if you do it your way. \r\n\r\nEach
    of these variants forms a *set* across the alphabet, i.e. the D.swash5 glyph is
    of the same stylistic flavor as R.swash5 but of different flavor than R.swash8.
    So the way Poetica is implemented now actually makes perfect sense in the ssXX
    world, and makes sense in the salt world. \r\n\r\nAlso, while InDesign implements
    ssXX on an additive basis, Mac OS X\u2019s Cocoa implementation is mutually exclusive.
    Poetica works well in the mutually exclusive world as well as in the additive
    world.\r\n\r\n> If we could redo Poetica\u2019s features today, we\u2019d probably
    \r\n> do a different combination of \u2018salt\u2019 and \u2018ssXX\u2019. One
    \r\n> possible solution comes to mind:\r\n\r\nTry another, something along the
    lines of: \r\n\r\n<code>feature salt {\r\nsub A from [A.1 A.2 A.3 ... A.9];\r\nsub
    B from [B.1 B.2 B.3 ... B.9];\r\nsub C from [C.1 C.2 C.3 ... C.9];\r\n...\r\nsub
    Z from [Z.1 Z.2 Z.3 ... Z.9];\r\n} salt;\r\n\r\nfeature ss01 {\r\nsub [A B C ...
    Z] by [A.1 B.1 C.1 ... Z.1];\r\nsub [A.1 B.1 C.1 ... Z.1] by [A.2 B.2 C.2 ...
    Z.2];\r\nsub [A.2 B.2 C.2 ... Z.2] by [A.3 B.3 C.3 ... Z.3];\r\nsub [A.3 B.3 C.3
    ... Z.3] by [A.4 B.4 C.4 ... Z.4];\r\n...\r\nsub [A.9 B.9 C.9 ... Z.9] by [A B
    C ... Z];\r\n} ss01;\r\n\r\nfeature ss02 {\r\nsub [A B C ... Z] by [A.2 B.2 C.2
    ... Z.2];\r\nsub [A.1 B.1 C.1 ... Z.1] by [A.3 B.3 C.3 ... Z.3];\r\nsub [A.2 B.2
    C.2 ... Z.2] by [A.4 B.4 C.4 ... Z.4];\r\nsub [A.3 B.3 C.3 ... Z.3] by [A.5 B.5
    C.5 ... Z.5];\r\n...\r\nsub [A.9 B.9 C.9 ... Z.9] by [A.1 B.1 C.1 ... Z.1];\r\n}
    ss02;\r\n\r\nfeature ss03 {\r\nsub [A B C ... Z] by [A.3 B.3 C.3 ... Z.3];\r\nsub
    [A.1 B.1 C.1 ... Z.1] by [A.4 B.4 C.4 ... Z.4];\r\nsub [A.2 B.2 C.2 ... Z.2] by
    [A.5 B.5 C.5 ... Z.5];\r\nsub [A.3 B.3 C.3 ... Z.3] by [A.6 B.6 C.6 ... Z.6];\r\n...\r\nsub
    [A.9 B.9 C.9 ... Z.9] by [A.2 B.2 C.2 ... Z.2];\r\n} ss09;\r\n\r\n...\r\n\r\nfeature
    ss09 {\r\nsub [A B C ... Z] by [A.9 B.9 C.9 ... Z.9];\r\nsub [A.1 B.1 C.1 ...
    Z.1] by [A B C ... Z];\r\nsub [A.2 B.2 C.2 ... Z.2] by [A.1 B.1 C.1 ... Z.1];\r\nsub
    [A.3 B.3 C.3 ... Z.3] by [A.2 B.2 C.2 ... Z.2];\r\n...\r\nsub [A.9 B.9 C.9 ...
    Z.9] by [A.8 B.8 C.8 ... Z.8];\r\n} ss09;</code>\r\n\r\nThe idea is that without
    any manually-applied <em>salt</em>, the user would switch everything to 1st set
    by applying <em>ss01</em>, to 2nd set by applying <em>ss02</em>, to 3rd set by
    applying <em>ss03</em> etc. If the user had manually applied some stylistic alternates
    to some glyphs in his font, applying any of the <em>ssXX</em> features would still
    \"upgrade\" or \"spice up\" his entire text \"by one set up\". And additive combination
    of the sets would have a yet more \"accelerating\" effect. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-03-22 07:08:42'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Are you saying that when ssXX was conceived, with Poetica being used
    as an example, Poetica actually was a bad implementation of the ssXX idea</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    possible. My view is that the implementation in Poetica doesn't seem consistent
    with the result we expect, nowadays, when applying a Stylistic Set.\r\n\r\n> <em>But
    what you\u2019re saying contradicts the OpenType specification, because the OpenType
    specification (read my lips:) uses Poetica as an example for ssXX!!!</em>\r\n\r\nDear
    Adam, you know, better than me, that some aspects of OpenType spec would benefit
    from a revision, to bring it up to date with our (as a community) current understanding
    and usage of the technology.\r\n\r\n> <em>Am I to assume that Adobe now recommends
    to contradict the OpenType specification and disregard its recommendations for
    the ssXX feature because people who wrote up the ss01\u2013ss20 feature description
    didn\u2019t know what they were doing?</em>\r\n\r\nNo. The people that initially
    wrote it had *very* good and well intentioned ideas, and knew perfectly well what
    they were doing. Nonetheless, with time ideas get more mature, and I'm of the
    opinion that some definitions in the OT spec would benefit from being polished
    and clarified.\r\n\r\nTake the <a href=\"http://partners.adobe.com/public/developer/opentype/index_tag8.html#rand\">'rand'
    (Randomize) feature</a> as an example; it is an excellent idea! Will it ever be
    implemented? Probably not. Why? Because after all these years we (and I mean font
    developers and app developers) realized that we can achieve the same result with
    'calt'."
  created: '2007-03-22 07:23:15'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "If anyone wants to try this as a proof-of-concept (including you Miguel),
    below is a more complete code snippet for a Poetica Std \"2.0\". If you own PoeticaStd.otf,
    open it in FontLab Studio 5, remove the existing feature code and replace it with
    the code below. Compile the features. FontLab Studio will ask you to create a
    bunch of \"O\" glyphs (because there are less O swashes than other glyphs, but
    let's disregard it for now) -- approve it. \r\n\r\nOnce the features are generated,
    in the OpenType Features preview panel check the test word: \r\n\r\n/W.swash2/A/N/A.swash5/W/A/N.swash3/D/A.swash1\r\n\r\n(This
    simulates a text string with manually inserted <em>salt</em> alternates). Make
    sure you apply the <em>kern</em> feature. \r\n\r\nThen apply <em>ssXX</em> features
    mutually-exclusively, or additively. You will see that the entire text moves \"up
    and down\" within the respective sets, but maintaining the \"set distances\" between
    the manually-inserted altnerates:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/poetica2a_4307.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/poetica2b_6150.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/poetica2c_6694.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/poetica2d_4510.jpg]\r\n\r\nAdam\r\n\r\n<code>@ss00
    = [A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z];\r\n@ss01 = [A.swash1
    B.swash1 C.swash1 D.swash1 E.swash1 F.swash1 G.swash1 H.swash1 I.swash1 J.swash1
    K.swash1 L.swash1 M.swash1 N.swash1 O.swash1 P.swash1 Q.swash1 R.swash1 S.swash1
    T.swash1 U.swash1 V.swash1 W.swash1 X.swash1 Y.swash1 Z.swash1];\r\n@ss02 = [A.swash2
    B.swash2 C.swash2 D.swash2 E.swash2 F.swash2 G.swash2 H.swash2 I.swash2 J.swash2
    K.swash2 L.swash2 M.swash2 N.swash2 O.swash2 P.swash2 Q.swash2 R.swash2 S.swash2
    T.swash2 U.swash2 V.swash2 W.swash2 X.swash2 Y.swash2 Z.swash2];\r\n@ss03 = [A.swash3
    B.swash3 C.swash3 D.swash3 E.swash3 F.swash3 G.swash3 H.swash3 I.swash3 J.swash3
    K.swash3 L.swash3 M.swash3 N.swash3 O.swash3 P.swash3 Q.swash3 R.swash3 S.swash3
    T.swash3 U.swash3 V.swash3 W.swash3 X.swash3 Y.swash3 Z.swash3];\r\n@ss04 = [A.swash4
    B.swash4 C.swash4 D.swash4 E.swash4 F.swash4 G.swash4 H.swash4 I.swash4 J.swash4
    K.swash4 L.swash4 M.swash4 N.swash4 O.swash4 P.swash4 Q.swash4 R.swash4 S.swash4
    T.swash4 U.swash4 V.swash4 W.swash4 X.swash4 Y.swash4 Z.swash4];\r\n@ss05 = [A.swash5
    B.swash5 C.swash5 D.swash5 E.swash5 F.swash5 G.swash5 H.swash5 I.swash5 J.swash5
    K.swash5 L.swash5 M.swash5 N.swash5 O.swash5 P.swash5 Q.swash5 R.swash5 S.swash5
    T.swash5 U.swash5 V.swash5 W.swash5 X.swash5 Y.swash5 Z.swash5];\r\n@ss06 = [A.swash6
    B.swash6 C.swash6 D.swash6 E.swash6 F.swash6 G.swash6 H.swash6 I.swash6 J.swash6
    K.swash6 L.swash6 M.swash6 N.swash6 O.swash6 P.swash6 Q.swash6 R.swash6 S.swash6
    T.swash6 U.swash6 V.swash6 W.swash6 X.swash6 Y.swash6 Z.swash6];\r\n@ss07 = [A.swash7
    B.swash7 C.swash7 D.swash7 E.swash7 F.swash7 G.swash7 H.swash7 I.swash7 J.swash7
    K.swash7 L.swash7 M.swash7 N.swash7 O.swash7 P.swash7 Q.swash7 R.swash7 S.swash7
    T.swash7 U.swash7 V.swash7 W.swash7 X.swash7 Y.swash7 Z.swash7];\r\n@ss08 = [A.swash8
    B.swash8 C.swash8 D.swash8 E.swash8 F.swash8 G.swash8 H.swash8 I.swash8 J.swash8
    K.swash8 L.swash8 M.swash8 N.swash8 O.swash8 P.swash8 Q.swash8 R.swash8 S.swash8
    T.swash8 U.swash8 V.swash8 W.swash8 X.swash8 Y.swash8 Z.swash8];\r\n@ss09 = [A.swash9
    B.swash9 C.swash9 D.swash9 E.swash9 F.swash9 G.swash9 H.swash9 I.swash9 J.swash9
    K.swash9 L.swash9 M.swash9 N.swash9 O.swash9 P.swash9 Q.swash9 R.swash9 S.swash9
    T.swash9 U.swash9 V.swash9 W.swash9 X.swash9 Y.swash9 Z.swash9];\r\n\r\nfeature
    salt {\r\nsub A from [A.swash1 A.swash2 A.swash3 A.swash4 A.swash5 A.swash6 A.swash7
    A.swash8 A.swash9];\r\nsub B from [B.swash1 B.swash2 B.swash3 B.swash4 B.swash5
    B.swash6 B.swash7 B.swash8 B.swash9];\r\nsub C from [C.swash1 C.swash2 C.swash3
    C.swash4 C.swash5 C.swash6 C.swash7 C.swash8 C.swash9];\r\nsub D from [D.swash1
    D.swash2 D.swash3 D.swash4 D.swash5 D.swash6 D.swash7 D.swash8 D.swash9];\r\nsub
    E from [E.swash1 E.swash2 E.swash3 E.swash4 E.swash5 E.swash6 E.swash7 E.swash8
    E.swash9];\r\nsub F from [F.swash1 F.swash2 F.swash3 F.swash4 F.swash5 F.swash6
    F.swash7 F.swash8 F.swash9];\r\nsub G from [G.swash1 G.swash2 G.swash3 G.swash4
    G.swash5 G.swash6 G.swash7 G.swash8 G.swash9];\r\nsub H from [H.swash1 H.swash2
    H.swash3 H.swash4 H.swash5 H.swash6 H.swash7 H.swash8 H.swash9];\r\nsub I from
    [I.swash1 I.swash2 I.swash3 I.swash4 I.swash5 I.swash6 I.swash7 I.swash8 I.swash9];\r\nsub
    J from [J.swash1 J.swash2 J.swash3 J.swash4 J.swash5 J.swash6 J.swash7 J.swash8
    J.swash9];\r\nsub K from [K.swash1 K.swash2 K.swash3 K.swash4 K.swash5 K.swash6
    K.swash7 K.swash8 K.swash9];\r\nsub L from [L.swash1 L.swash2 L.swash3 L.swash4
    L.swash5 L.swash6 L.swash7 L.swash8 L.swash9];\r\nsub M from [M.swash1 M.swash2
    M.swash3 M.swash4 M.swash5 M.swash6 M.swash7 M.swash8 M.swash9];\r\nsub N from
    [N.swash1 N.swash2 N.swash3 N.swash4 N.swash5 N.swash6 N.swash7 N.swash8 N.swash9];\r\nsub
    O from [O.swash1 O.swash2 O.swash3 O.swash4 O.swash5 O.swash6 O.swash7 O.swash8
    O.swash9];\r\nsub P from [P.swash1 P.swash2 P.swash3 P.swash4 P.swash5 P.swash6
    P.swash7 P.swash8 P.swash9];\r\nsub Q from [Q.swash1 Q.swash2 Q.swash3 Q.swash4
    Q.swash5 Q.swash6 Q.swash7 Q.swash8 Q.swash9];\r\nsub R from [R.swash1 R.swash2
    R.swash3 R.swash4 R.swash5 R.swash6 R.swash7 R.swash8 R.swash9];\r\nsub S from
    [S.swash1 S.swash2 S.swash3 S.swash4 S.swash5 S.swash6 S.swash7 S.swash8 S.swash9];\r\nsub
    T from [T.swash1 T.swash2 T.swash3 T.swash4 T.swash5 T.swash6 T.swash7 T.swash8
    T.swash9];\r\nsub U from [U.swash1 U.swash2 U.swash3 U.swash4 U.swash5 U.swash6
    U.swash7 U.swash8 U.swash9];\r\nsub V from [V.swash1 V.swash2 V.swash3 V.swash4
    V.swash5 V.swash6 V.swash7 V.swash8 V.swash9];\r\nsub W from [W.swash1 W.swash2
    W.swash3 W.swash4 W.swash5 W.swash6 W.swash7 W.swash8 W.swash9];\r\nsub X from
    [X.swash1 X.swash2 X.swash3 X.swash4 X.swash5 X.swash6 X.swash7 X.swash8 X.swash9];\r\nsub
    Y from [Y.swash1 Y.swash2 Y.swash3 Y.swash4 Y.swash5 Y.swash6 Y.swash7 Y.swash8
    Y.swash9];\r\nsub Z from [Z.swash1 Z.swash2 Z.swash3 Z.swash4 Z.swash5 Z.swash6
    Z.swash7 Z.swash8 Z.swash9];\r\n} salt;\r\n\r\nfeature ss01 {\r\nsub @ss00 by
    @ss01;\r\nsub @ss01 by @ss02;\r\nsub @ss02 by @ss03;\r\nsub @ss03 by @ss04;\r\nsub
    @ss04 by @ss05;\r\nsub @ss05 by @ss06;\r\nsub @ss06 by @ss07;\r\nsub @ss07 by
    @ss08;\r\nsub @ss08 by @ss09;\r\nsub @ss09 by @ss00;\r\n} ss01;\r\n\r\nfeature
    ss02 {\r\nsub @ss00 by @ss02;\r\nsub @ss01 by @ss03;\r\nsub @ss02 by @ss04;\r\nsub
    @ss03 by @ss05;\r\nsub @ss04 by @ss06;\r\nsub @ss05 by @ss07;\r\nsub @ss06 by
    @ss08;\r\nsub @ss07 by @ss09;\r\nsub @ss08 by @ss00;\r\nsub @ss09 by @ss01;\r\n}
    ss02;\r\n\r\nfeature ss03 {\r\nsub @ss00 by @ss03;\r\nsub @ss01 by @ss04;\r\nsub
    @ss02 by @ss05;\r\nsub @ss03 by @ss06;\r\nsub @ss04 by @ss07;\r\nsub @ss05 by
    @ss08;\r\nsub @ss06 by @ss09;\r\nsub @ss07 by @ss00;\r\nsub @ss08 by @ss01;\r\nsub
    @ss09 by @ss02;\r\n} ss03;\r\n\r\nfeature ss04 {\r\nsub @ss00 by @ss04;\r\nsub
    @ss01 by @ss05;\r\nsub @ss02 by @ss06;\r\nsub @ss03 by @ss07;\r\nsub @ss04 by
    @ss08;\r\nsub @ss05 by @ss09;\r\nsub @ss06 by @ss00;\r\nsub @ss07 by @ss01;\r\nsub
    @ss08 by @ss02;\r\nsub @ss09 by @ss03;\r\n} ss04;\r\n\r\nfeature ss05 {\r\nsub
    @ss00 by @ss05;\r\nsub @ss01 by @ss06;\r\nsub @ss02 by @ss07;\r\nsub @ss03 by
    @ss08;\r\nsub @ss04 by @ss09;\r\nsub @ss05 by @ss00;\r\nsub @ss06 by @ss01;\r\nsub
    @ss07 by @ss02;\r\nsub @ss08 by @ss03;\r\nsub @ss09 by @ss04;\r\n} ss05;\r\n\r\nfeature
    ss06 {\r\nsub @ss00 by @ss06;\r\nsub @ss01 by @ss07;\r\nsub @ss02 by @ss08;\r\nsub
    @ss03 by @ss09;\r\nsub @ss04 by @ss00;\r\nsub @ss05 by @ss01;\r\nsub @ss06 by
    @ss02;\r\nsub @ss07 by @ss03;\r\nsub @ss08 by @ss04;\r\nsub @ss09 by @ss05;\r\n}
    ss06;\r\n\r\nfeature ss07 {\r\nsub @ss00 by @ss07;\r\nsub @ss01 by @ss08;\r\nsub
    @ss02 by @ss09;\r\nsub @ss03 by @ss00;\r\nsub @ss04 by @ss01;\r\nsub @ss05 by
    @ss02;\r\nsub @ss06 by @ss03;\r\nsub @ss07 by @ss04;\r\nsub @ss08 by @ss05;\r\nsub
    @ss09 by @ss06;\r\n} ss07;\r\n\r\nfeature ss08 {\r\nsub @ss00 by @ss08;\r\nsub
    @ss01 by @ss09;\r\nsub @ss02 by @ss00;\r\nsub @ss03 by @ss01;\r\nsub @ss04 by
    @ss02;\r\nsub @ss05 by @ss03;\r\nsub @ss06 by @ss04;\r\nsub @ss07 by @ss05;\r\nsub
    @ss08 by @ss06;\r\nsub @ss09 by @ss07;\r\n} ss08;\r\n\r\nfeature ss09 {\r\nsub
    @ss00 by @ss09;\r\nsub @ss01 by @ss00;\r\nsub @ss02 by @ss01;\r\nsub @ss03 by
    @ss02;\r\nsub @ss04 by @ss03;\r\nsub @ss05 by @ss04;\r\nsub @ss06 by @ss05;\r\nsub
    @ss07 by @ss06;\r\nsub @ss08 by @ss07;\r\nsub @ss09 by @ss08;\r\n} ss09;</code>\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-22 07:30:19'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Ps. The implementation shown above has interesting side-effects. E.g. applying
    ss01, ss04 and ss05 at the same time gives you the exactly original string back.
    This could be made slightly more interesting if each ssXX feature for each entry
    glyph moved at a different pace, e.g. ss01 could replace A with A.1, B with B.1,
    A.1 with A.2 and A.1 with B.2, but ss05 could replace A with A.5, B with B.5,
    A.1 with B.7 and B.1 with B.3, or something like that. Then additively combining
    various sets would give you very different combinations :) \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-22 07:43:00'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Similarly, an InDesign CS2 user is able to enable or disable stylistic
    sets on a per-glyph basis, but also on entire words, sentences, paragraphs or
    text frames. It is up to the user\u2019s discretion to do or not to do this. The
    difference between Illustrator and InDesign is that the first gives you just one
    alternate and the second gives you up to twenty. Right?</em>\r\n\r\nIt's true
    that one 'ssXX' can be seen as a subset 'salt'. In other words, 'salt' could be
    viewed as a 'ss00' (hypothetical Stylistic Set 0). BUT 'salt' is much more than
    a simple stylistic set, because it was designed to consider one-from-many (GSUB
    lookup type 3) substitutions as well as one-to-one (GSUB lookup type 1) substitutions,
    whereas 'ssXX' was only intended to be used  with the latter type of substitutions.\r\n\r\nHaving
    said that, Illustrator's implementation of Stylistic Alternates is incomplete
    since it trims down 'salt' to only provide one-to-one substitutions (therefore
    you can only get access to the first alternate when pressing the button on the
    UI). And this implementation is flawed because it makes 'salt' behave like a simple
    'ssXX', which subverts the initial intent of the feature. This also has the side
    effect of leading users to believe that the two features ('salt' & 'ss01') are
    the same, when in fact they were created with clear different intents of interaction
    in mind."
  created: '2007-03-22 08:23:02'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Miguel, \r\n\r\nto me, there no apparent reason why the first set of alternates
    provided by <em>salt</em> should NOT be compatible with what <em>ss01</em> offers.
    Of course, *in addition* <em>salt</em> should give the user access to *all other*
    alternates offered by <em>ss01\u2013ss20</em>. My principle is simple: whatever
    is in <em>ss01\u2013ss20</em> should *always* be in <em>salt</em>, because <em>salt</em>
    is a superset of <em>ss01\u2013ss20</em>, organized differently. <em>salt</em>
    may contain additional glyphs that are not accessible through <em>ss01\u2013ss20</em>
    but anything that is accessible through <em>ssXX</em> should also be accessible
    through <em>salt</em>. \r\n\r\nI don\u2019t see why <em>salt</em> (being \"stylistic
    alternates\") should NOT include any glyphs that are mapped to \"sets of stylistic
    alternates\", i.e. <em>ss01\u2013ss20</em>. \r\n\r\nObviously, you know that there
    are two ways to access <em>salt</em> in Illustrator: \"wide\" and \"deep\". The
    \"wide\" access through the \"Stylistic Alternate\" switch in the OpenType palette
    only gives access to the first alternate but can be applied to an arbitrarily
    long text. The \"deep\" access through the Glyph palette gives access to any alternates
    for a single glyph but can only be applied on a per-glyph basis. \r\n\r\nI think
    this is actually pretty good, and does its job well. I cannot really think of
    a reasonable user interface that would combine the \"wide\" and the \"deep\" access
    at the same time. \r\n\r\nTo me, simply speaking, salt and ssXX are one and the
    same matrix but rotated by 90 degrees -- see table: \r\n\r\n<code>+\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\r\n|
    \u2014 | salt(1) | salt(2) | salt(3) | \r\n| \u2014 | \u2014\u2014 ss01 | \u2014\u2014
    ss02 | \u2014\u2014 ss03 |\r\n+\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\r\n|
    A | \u2014\u2014\u2014 A.1 | \u2014\u2014\u2014 A.2 | \u2014\u2014\u2014 A.3 |
    \r\n| B | \u2014\u2014\u2014 B.1 | \u2014\u2014\u2014 B.2 | \u2014\u2014\u2014
    B.3 | \r\n| C | \u2014\u2014\u2014 C.1 | \u2014\u2014\u2014 C.2 | \u2014\u2014\u2014
    C.3 | \r\n+\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+</code>\r\n\r\nor
    viewed from a different angle:\r\n\r\n<code>+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\r\n|
    \u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014 | \u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014
    | \u2014 A | \u2014 B | \u2014 C |\r\n+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\r\n|
    salt(1) | \u2014\u2014 ss01 | A.1 | B.1 | C.1 | \r\n| salt(2) | \u2014\u2014 ss02
    | A.2 | B.2 | C.3 | \r\n| salt(3) | \u2014\u2014 ss03 | A.3 | B.3 | C.3 | \r\n+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+</code>\r\n\r\nOf
    course, there may not be a 100% compatibility both ways if there are, say, more
    \"B\" alternates than \"C\" alternates because it is not possible to \"skip\"
    positions in the <em>salt</em> indexes. So a realistic scenario might look like:\r\n\r\n<code>+\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\r\n|
    \u2014 | \u2014\u2014 ss01 | \u2014\u2014 ss02 | \u2014\u2014 ss03 |\r\n+\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\r\n|
    A | \u2014\u2014\u2014 A.1 | \u2014\u2014\u2014 A.2 | \u2014\u2014\u2014 A.3 |
    \r\n| B | \u2014\u2014\u2014 B.1 | \u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014
    | \u2014\u2014\u2014 B.3 | \r\n| C | \u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014
    | \u2014\u2014\u2014 C.2 | \u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014 | \r\n+\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\r\n\r\n+\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\r\n|
    \u2014 | salt(1) | salt(2) | salt(3) | \r\n+\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\r\n|
    A | \u2014\u2014\u2014 A.1 | \u2014\u2014\u2014 A.2 | \u2014\u2014\u2014 A.3 |
    \r\n| B | \u2014\u2014\u2014 B.1 | \u2014\u2014\u2014 B.3 | \u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014
    | \r\n| C | \u2014\u2014\u2014 C.2 | \u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014
    | \u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014 | \r\n+\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+</code>\r\n\r\nor
    viewed from a different angle:\r\n\r\n<code>+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\r\n|
    \u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014 | \u2014 A | \u2014 B | \u2014 C |\r\n+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\r\n|
    \u2014\u2014 ss01 | A.1 | B.1 | \u2014\u2014\u2014 |\r\n| \u2014\u2014 ss02 |
    A.2 | \u2014\u2014\u2014 | C.2 |\r\n| \u2014\u2014 ss03 | A.3 | B.3 | \u2014\u2014\u2014
    |\r\n+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\r\n\r\n+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\r\n|
    \u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014 | \u2014 A | \u2014 B | \u2014 C |\r\n+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\r\n|
    salt(1) | A.1 | B.1 | C.2 |\r\n| salt(2) | A.2 | B.3 | \u2014\u2014\u2014 |\r\n|
    salt(3) | A.3 | \u2014\u2014\u2014 | \u2014\u2014\u2014 |\r\n+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+</code>\r\n\r\nOf
    course, the corresponding feature code for that would be: \r\n\r\n<code>feature
    salt {\r\nsub A from [A.1 A.2 A.3];\r\nsub B from [B.1 B.3];\r\nsub C from [C.2];\r\n}
    salt; \r\n\r\nfeature ss01 {\r\nsub [A B] by [A.1 B.1];\r\n} ss01; \r\n\r\nfeature
    ss02 {\r\nsub [A C] by [A.2 C.2];\r\n} ss02; \r\n\r\nfeature ss03 {\r\nsub [A
    B] by [A.3 B.3];\r\n} ss03;</code>\r\n\r\nBut I still need to hear a good reason
    why any <em>ssXX</em> alternates would <em>not</em> be included in <em>salt</em>.
    \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-22 08:34:07'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Your ideas for Poetica are quite interesting. But being able to change the
    default set of glyphs  (@ss00) directly by any of the other sets still makes me
    uncomfortable.\r\n\r\nIn fact, I was just looking at the specimen book* and it's
    clear that the different sets of capitals were not designed to be interchangeable,
    at least not all of them. Most of the alternate capital forms are swash versions,
    therefore changing from plain capitals to swash capitals is a job for 'swsh',
    not a stylistic sets. Of course, once the basic swash form of the capitals is
    applied, the stylistic sets can come into play, allowing different flavors of
    \"swashness\".\r\n\r\nAnother thing I noticed is that the specimen doesn't contain
    any example of a word set in all caps that is as \"swashed\" as the examples you
    made. This is understandable since an all-swash-caps does not only look silly,
    but it's also difficult to read. The image below reproduces one example found
    in the booklet.\r\n\r\n*Gorgeous! Unfortunately it's not available in PDF\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/poetica_books_4156.png]"
  created: '2007-03-22 09:24:23'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>to me, there no apparent reason why the first set of alternates provided
    by salt should NOT be compatible with what ss01 offers.</em>\r\n\r\nMe neither
    (but to be correct I should say that an example that contradicts it doesn't occur
    to me right now), but what I meant was 'salt' might have much more to give than
    what the user gets when he/she presses the 'Stylistic Alternates' button in Illustrator's
    UI. And the UI doesn't make it clear to the user that he/she is only getting a
    subset (the first \"layer\") of that feature. \r\n\r\n> <em>Of course, *in addition*
    salt should give the user access to *all other* alternates offered by ss01\u2013ss20.
    My principle is simple: whatever is in ss01\u2013ss20 should *always* be in salt,
    because salt is a superset of ss01\u2013ss20, organized differently. salt may
    contain additional glyphs that are not accessible through ss01\u2013ss20 but anything
    that is accessible through ssXX should also be accessible through salt.\r\nI don\u2019t
    see why salt (being \u201Cstylistic alternates\u201D) should NOT include any glyphs
    that are mapped to \u201Csets of stylistic alternates\u201D, i.e. ss01\u2013ss20.</em>\r\n\r\nWe
    agree on that.\r\n\r\nBased on your tables, this is how I see it:\r\n<code>+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\r\n|
    \u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014 | \u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014 salt \u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014
    |\r\n+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\r\n|
    \u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014 | \u2014 A | \u2014 B | \u2014 C |\r\n+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\r\n|
    \u2014\u2014 ss01 | A.1 | B.1 | C.1 |\r\n| \u2014\u2014 ss02 | A.2 | B.2 | C.3
    |\r\n| \u2014\u2014 ss03 | A.3 | B.3 | C.3 |\r\n+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014+\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nUsing
    your terminology, the table shows that 'salt' has \"wide\" (covers A, B and C)
    and \"deep\" (can get to all alternates of A, B and C) access, whereas stylistic
    sets only have \"wide\" access, as each one is restricted to its own \"layer\".\r\n\r\n>
    <em>But I still need to hear a good reason why any ssXX alternates would not be
    included in salt.</em>\r\n\r\nI can't think of one. And it should be said that
    the opposite isn't true. This is due to the architecture/intentions of both features.
    'salt' can contain the same kind of substitutions present in ssXX, but ssXX shouldn't
    (can't?) contain all types of substitutions that can be implemented in 'salt'
    (such as one-from-many)."
  created: '2007-03-22 10:01:46'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> And it should be said that the opposite isn\u2019t true. \r\n\r\nI agree
    that not all substitutions present in <em>salt</em> should be present in <em>ssXX</em>.
    In many fonts they will be, but some fonts will have extra stuff in <em>salt</em>.
    This is why I suggested to develop <em>ssXX</em> first and then <em>salt</em>.
    This seems to be the logical sequence to me. "
  created: '2007-03-22 13:11:35'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Adam wrote:\r\n<cite>I don\u2019t see why salt (being \u201Cstylistic alternates\u201D)
    should NOT include any glyphs that are mapped to \u201Csets of stylistic alternates\u201D,
    i.e. ss01\u2013ss20.</cite>\r\n\r\nMiguel wrote:\r\n<cite>Having said that, Illustrator\u2019s
    implementation of Stylistic Alternates is incomplete since it trims down \u2018salt\u2019
    to only provide one-to-one substitutions (therefore you can only get access to
    the first alternate when pressing the button on the UI).</cite>\r\n\r\nReading
    this thread, one question bugs me: What would an <cite>ideal</cite> implementation
    and UI of 'salt' in applications look like?\r\n\r\nAs to the one-by-one part:\r\nUser
    selects a glyph and applies 'salt' to receive an (the first) alternate for this
    glyph. Same for strings, maybe (if 'salt' mirrors 'ss01').\r\nThis however is
    like applying 'ss01' -- which makes 'salt' superfluous.\r\n\r\nAs to the one-from-many
    part:\r\nUser selects a glyph, and upon right-click/ctrl-click or some shortcut,
    a popup appears which <cite>only</cite> presents alternates for this glyph. Consider
    as a more 'interactive' version of the Glyph Palette method. (The way Chinese
    or Japanese is typed comes to mind!)\r\nBut then, doesn't 'aalt' do the job already?
    Maybe not: 'salt' is more 'focused', i.e. limits the choice to real design alternates
    -- as against small cap, uppercase, superior &c alternates.\r\n\r\nIt seems that
    this discussion is about: Does it make sense to use the one-by-one part of 'salt'
    as a 'ss01' mirror for less advanced applications which don't yet support Stylistic
    Set features?\r\nTo tweak my question a bit, I would ask: If not for the one-from-many
    part, for presenting a more focused selection of alternates, what is 'salt' good
    for at all?"
  created: '2007-03-22 15:59:23'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "Wow. I went away for a few days and this thread went crazy. I haven't read
    everything thoroughly, but I have some comments based on what I have read so far
    (so sorry if I missed something):\r\n\r\nAFAIK, stylistic sets were proposed by
    John Hudson back in summer 2002 (so maybe he has some further insight). The idea
    is to express a single design variation that spans multiple glyphs. A \"stylistic
    set\" is meant only to be a set of glyphs (i.e. more than one, as I see it) which
    are collectively a single design variation -- so it can be a set of capitals in
    Poetica, or the long ascenders in Kigali, or the plain capitals in Bulmer. It's
    a way of saying, \"These alternates belong together.\"\r\n\r\nIt is probably true
    that we haven't been too consistent about how 'ss**' features are implemented
    in fonts, but I think it's fair to say that Poetica is well-suited to it.\r\n\r\nAdam,
    you're example/complaint about applying a set to Poetica \"all at once\" is valid,
    but in fairness to whomever authored those features in Poetica (I don't think
    it was me!), I think it was imagined that the features would be applied to upper/lowercase
    text, not all-caps. Still, the stylistic sets serve the purpose that 'ss**' was
    created for, which is to express a shared design trait among glyph alternates.\r\n\r\nAs
    I said in another thread, I don't agree with this idea that alternates should
    be in both 'salt' and 'ss**' as a general practice (just like you wouldn't put
    all ligatures from 'liga' in 'clig'). I think the two features are complementary,
    in that 'salt' handles single alternates, and 'ss**' handles sets of alternates.
    Like a lot of feature choices, it's harmless, but I wouldn't call it \"best practices\".\r\n\r\nI
    am not so sure that there is anything in the 'ss**' description which prescribes
    that it be applied \"all at once\". This certainly seems to be the way to go for
    many stylistic sets, but I don't know that this should be assumed. As we've seen
    in Poetica, some discretion is sometimes needed. (By the way, we should clarify
    some of the language Miguel used unintentionally, because in the OpenType vernacular,
    both 'salt' and 'ss**' are \"discretionary\", because they're not on by default.)
    With not too much trouble, an 'ss**' feature can be applied to a character style
    in InDesign, for example, and applied to the first letter of every paragraph with
    nested styles. In a case like this, 'ss**' can be very useful and appropriate,
    without being an \"all at once\" kind of thing."
  created: '2007-03-26 05:14:00'
date: '2007-03-20 21:16:17'
title: garamond premier pro stylistic alternates don't work in indesign

---
