---
author:
  name: Yaronimus-Maximus
  picture: 110981
body: "hi everyone. \r\ni posted here a little in the past, (hopefully more in the
  future).\r\nmy name is yaron and im a 25 years old design student from israel.\r\nim
  now working on a fake rebranding for a left-wing non-partizan israeli organization
  that demonstrates for peace, human rights and against the israeli wall.\r\nthe original
  organization, still active in israel is \"gush shalom\" (something like peace-block)
  and i have renamed it to \"peace core\" as in \"hard core\", but also a core of
  which peace grows from.\r\n\r\nit's an exercise in the design school and not for
  real, but it's a very interesting \r\ntask that combines rebranding, type handling,
  and advertising.\r\nim now working on the logo that combines three languages - hebrew,
  arabic and english. \r\n\r\nthe logo is intended to be united (by using similar
  graphic language in each font), inseperable (thus naturaly connected by using ligatures
  between the languages) and strong (by using bold wheights, because the organization
  is considered a militant [but non violent] organization for peace).\r\nmy biggest
  problem is designing in arabic, sadly i don't know arabic. i don't know what's cool
  inarabic or what good fonts can assist me. only for the logo, the task is quite
  hard, as i try to make the connection flow in harmony.\r\n\r\na good guy from lebanon
  assisted me and found for me an arabic type called \"S kira\" which can be good
  with some thickening and adjustments.\r\nthe hebrew type is \"extrim black\".\r\nand
  the english one is \"Futura LT ExtraBold\".\r\n\r\nim open for any type/composition/linguistic
  suggestions. i also need names for three good fonts that are good for text (and
  the slogan below the logo).\r\n\r\nprevious sketches :\r\nhere:www.flickr.com/photos/yaronimus/359638795/\r\nand
  here: http://www.flickr.com/photos/yaronimus/367882739/\r\n\r\ni have attached a
  PDF file of the recent sketches.\r\n\r\nthank you all.\r\nYaronimus"
comments:
- author:
    name: nicholasgross
    picture: 111028
  body: "I no nothing about arabic/arabic fonts but the logo is tough man, I really
    like it. I can see it now spray painted on the side of a white Toyota landcruiser
    covered with road dust, shimmering in the heat haze,\r\n\r\n--N"
  created: '2007-03-21 07:35:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "You have combined the three scripts really well, which is an accomplishment--congratulations.
    \r\n\r\nMy only question would be about the very bold letters. Your current logo
    looks very aggressive, which I think conflicts with the concept of peace. I would
    think that for the concept you would want something with more balance and repose--more
    classic in feel rather than aggressive-modern. "
  created: '2007-03-21 13:23:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, it depends whether one thinks this juggernaut of warmongering can
    best be stopped gently or aggressively. In making this judgement one might take
    into account how much real effect the most recent round of US voting has had...\r\n\r\nYaron,
    good call posting this here. I see you've changed things around. One thing I preferred
    in the old one is the counter-balancing of the ordering of the languages between
    the main logo and the subtext; in this one I would put the Hebrew first and the
    Arabic second in the subtext.\r\n\r\nOtherwise though this is a nice improvement.
    Some suggestions:\r\n1) I don't know enough about Hebrew type, but in terms of
    style it seems well-matched to the Arabic. The English however is too mainstream,
    not rigid enough; instead of Futura I'd use something like DIN, ot maybe something
    a little bit softer, and more contemporary, like Klavika*.\r\n2) I would close
    up the gaps around the Arabic \"seen\" at the baseline - it's inappropriately
    unconventional this way. I think the Hebrew (and certainly the English, even if
    you change it to something like Klavika) is relatively conventional, no?\r\n3)
    Considering the \"tah-marboota\" (the last letter of the first word in the Arabic)
    only occurs as the last letter of a word, I'd close up the wordspace, maybe even
    completely, or almost completely. The Hebrew and English are enjoying a nice tightness,
    and the Arabic could too.\r\n4) By being absorbed into the Arabic \"meem\", isn't
    the top-left letter in the Hebrew getting lost, causing confusion? Maybe the word
    is clear enough thanks to context and familiarity however.\r\n5) I know the Arabic
    font you're using in the main logo has a little bit of a readability issue, but
    I think you should try to use it in the subtext too - the Hebrew and English fonts
    are the same after all.\r\n6) In the main logo, the Arabic is too strong - try
    shortening the ascenders.\r\n7) In the subtext, the English should be a bit darker,
    and the wordspace greater (or maybe better: lesser in the Arabic and Hebrew).\r\n8)
    I would right-justify the bottom two lines in the main logo (to get the two \"E\"s
    lined up, avoiding that distracting slight difference).\r\n\r\n* http://www.processtypefoundry.com/typefaces/klavika/index.html
    _\r\nIf expense is an issue, you might get Eric to donate an EPS of your setting,\r\nseeing
    as how it's for a good cause. But it's a great font to own too.\r\n\r\nGood luck
    with the effort, and I don't mean just the logo!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-21 16:25:46'
- author:
    name: sch2525
    picture: 112170
  body: "I don't know anything about non-english characters, but it's my understanding
    that even the slightest change could alter their meaning; so I would be cautious
    of your \"multilingual ligatures.\" \r\n\r\nWith that said, I do think it's a
    very powerful mark. I think the aggressiveness that William is talking about is
    what, to me, makes the logo stand out. It's soaked in irony. In the U.S. especially
    (thanks to the media), many (ignorant) people see the Middle East as dangerous
    and threatening. So associating this belief with peace creates a more memorable
    mark. Much MUCH better than using a dove or an olive branch! ;) It's very masculine,
    which also sets it apart from the cliche delicate peace logos.\r\n\r\nI also agree
    with Nicholas - I'd love to see it spray painted on the sides of buildings and
    sidewalks.\r\n\r\nNice work."
  created: '2007-03-22 18:42:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> even the slightest change could alter their meaning\r\n\r\nIt depends on
    the script. I wouldn't:\r\n1) characterize it as \"slightest change\" in general.\r\n2)
    say that Latin is less susceptible to this than average.\r\n\r\nNatural languages
    have a lot of redundancy (English is like 50%)\r\nso context and familiarity tend
    to forestall any potential confusion.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-22 20:01:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "It is interesting to compare the logos of the real organizations.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://zope.gush-shalom.org/index_he.html\">Here is the Hebrew version</a>
    of the Gush Shalom logo. This combines cursive and square Hebrew letters pretty
    successfully. \r\n\r\nHowever, the international version is <a href=\"http://gush-shalom.org/\">a
    bit of a mess</a>. \r\n\r\nThe international logo of the organization <a href=\"http://www.peacenow.org.il/site/en/homepage.asp?pi=25\">Peace
    Now</a> makes more of an effort, but still is not so good. The serif 'shalom'
    with the bold sans 'achshav' [now] in Hebrew works, but they don't do the same
    with the mirrored English, spoiling the balance of the logo. \r\n\r\nYour real
    logo for a fake organization is much better. I think the real ones need you, Yaron!
    \  "
  created: '2007-03-22 21:34:26'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> the Gush Shalom logo. This combines cursive and square Hebrew letters pretty
    successfully.\r\n\r\nBill -- I don't think so. This is kinda fine -, ah 'nice'
    try. \r\n\r\n[> The international logo of the organization Peace Now\r\nThe link
    isn't right ]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-22 22:21:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'David, thanks, I fixed the link. You''re right of course on the combination
    of cursive and square letters being weak. I was being too generous, because at
    least they were trying! ''Nice Try'' is much closer to the mark. '
  created: '2007-03-22 22:27:21'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "No problem :) \r\n\r\n> The serif \u2018shalom\u2019 with the bold sans \u2018achshav\u2019
    [now] in Hebrew works,\r\n\r\nBTW, the serif is Koren (a forerunner of the full
    Koren Bible); the bold sans is Haim"
  created: '2007-03-22 22:34:13'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: "wow, thank you all!!\r\n\r\nnicholas gross - thank you!! i do feel that the
    logo has a real problem with the composition, something in it looks to \"stacked\"
    rather than really placed in order.\r\n\r\nWilliam Berkson - well it's all about
    the attitude of the organization. they claim to be a militant organization for
    peace, so the type matches the feel they want to promote. it's a choice i could
    made between a more smooth and reconciliation feel, and a more \"we have to unite
    and fight (with no violence offcourse) for it\".\r\nliving in israel, i have to
    say that the 90's were all about dreams for peace, thus the dove and olive branch.
    people were hopefull that the next decade will be different. the word peace was
    used many times. but in time i think both sides got more cinical, apathic, and
    desperate about the current situation. i personaly feel, that a shout would do
    more than a wisper. there is an israeli song that goes something like this: \"sing,
    a song for peace, don't whisper a prayer. sing, a song for peace, in a great shout\".\r\n\r\nhrant
    - your helping is awesome. you are right about the english type.  i think it's
    boring, it has no \"personality\" and i believe it will create problems in the
    future because it has no interesting features to use. however the DIN font has
    no wheight that is black enough to match the others. i haven't seen any suitable
    wheights from that family and neither does klavika. any other ideas for an english
    font would be welcomed. \r\nim working on the the other things you mentioned as
    well righ now, so i will get back here with the changes as soon as im done. \r\n\r\nsch2525
    - thank you, that's exactly what i wanted to say in the logo. \r\ni will add and
    just say that yitzhak rabin, once an israeli prime minister that was assasinated
    was well known as the \"soldier of peace\" for his actions for peace. this is
    a kind of explanation to what i want the logo and the rebranded organization to
    express. it's all about uniting fiercly and non violently for peace.\r\n\r\na
    question - is there a way to actualy show the images i attach here, inside the
    post, (rather than just being a link)?"
  created: '2007-03-23 01:03:38'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: "thank you so much william!! \r\nhowever, i believe i have much work on it.
    \r\n\r\nit's so strange about the \"shalom achshav\" logo. it was designed by
    one of israel's most celebrated designers - dan reisinger. you'd expect to find
    a better combination in the english and arabic designs. i remember saying that
    to myself when i did the initial research."
  created: '2007-03-23 01:09:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">dan reisinger\r\n\r\nHe's the fellow who did the wonderful El Al logo, right?
    That combines Latin and Hebrew script so well. Maybe he did just the Hebrew logo,
    and the English and Arabic were tacked on later? The full thing is unbalanced. "
  created: '2007-03-23 01:24:52'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: "yep. reisinger the original el al designer. you should see his other designs
    for el al. some of them are so cool.\r\nbut i was miss-informed - the \"peace
    now\" (\"shalom achshav\") logo was designed by another famous israeli designer
    - david tartakover.\r\n\r\nsorry, my bad.."
  created: '2007-03-23 01:28:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Very dark weights in a semi-rigid contemporary design: somebody help!\r\n\r\n>
    david tartakover\r\n\r\nI think he was once featured in Baseline magazine,\r\nand
    I remember liking a good deal of his work.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-23 06:04:13'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Aachen_4784.png]\r\n\r\nHi, just a little
    update, i've tried using a different font for the english, it's called \"Aachen\".
    I don't think it's good for this logo though, i think the previous trial was better
    (with that mainstream font).\r\nany suggestion for a suitable english font? (perhaps
    slab serif but not condenced looking and offcourse black).\r\nthanks"
  created: '2007-03-27 19:25:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What happened?! I think this is worse in a bunch of ways, sorry! The hole
    between the Hebrew and English, the distracting serifs in the English, the collision
    between the Arabic and English... Retreat! RETREAT!!!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-27 19:32:01'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: yes sir! :D
  created: '2007-03-27 19:54:06'
- author:
    name: sch2525
    picture: 112170
  body: I agree fully with hrant. The English looks too detatched. And the 2nd Arabic
    character from the right creates a messy area where it contacts with "C-E" in
    Peace, unlike where the Arabic connects to the Hebrew, which flows very well.
  created: '2007-03-27 20:14:07'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Yikes_4782.png] \r\nthese are the latest
    modifications.\r\n\r\n\r\nstill i have a huge problem with the composition, i
    cannot proceed untill i sort it out. it doesn't align in a nice way.\r\nnote the
    problematic difference between the letter P and the hebrew letter that is attached
    to it - \"gimel\". the inner space of the P is not aligned with the letter.\r\n\r\n\r\nis
    the arabic changes good HRANT?\r\n\r\n\r\nstill the lower (subtext) part is unfinished.
    this is rebranding, so i have been thinking of using different fonts for the lower
    part - more readable fonts, so i'll have a kind of \"set\" of two fonts for each
    language - head line font and text font, (that will be kind of consistent throughout
    the language - hebrew text font will match the english and arabic in form).\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-27 20:33:56'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: why can't i insert pdf's here?
  created: '2007-03-27 20:35:25'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: You must edit your original post and insert them there. PDFs only attach in
    the original post.
  created: '2007-03-27 20:49:58'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: hi miss tifany, do you meen in the first message opening this thread?
  created: '2007-03-27 20:53:48'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Hi. Yes that is what I meant.
  created: '2007-03-27 20:56:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it doesn\u2019t align in a nice way.\r\n\r\nAgreed, although alignment
    shouldn't be allowed to become the goal. Don't aim for perfection; not because
    it's unattainable, but because it's bad for you.\r\n\r\nTo me the main alignment
    issue is that the Arabic is too far to the right, which is exaggerated due to
    the descender of the \"meem\". What I would do is push the descender of the meem
    further out and shorten it to the bottom of the first line of Hebrew/Arabic. Going
    further, I'd probably move the first word in the Arabic to the left, reducing
    the length of overlap in the \"waaw\"-\"E\" ligation (and yes, breaking the alignment
    between the lefts of the \"waaw\" and \"E\").\r\n\r\n> the inner space of the
    P is not aligned with the letter.\r\n\r\nThis I don't understand.\r\n\r\n> i have
    been thinking of using different fonts for the lower part\r\n\r\nMight be a good
    idea, although it will be tricky to do it well.\r\nFonts are like teenagers: beyond
    a few they become impossible to manage!  :-)\r\n\r\nAnyway, I suggest focusing
    on the main logo first.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nSomething else: I know that previously
    I had voiced a suspicion that merging the descender of the \"meem\" with the Yod
    might cause trouble, but now the Arabic and Hebrew are fully detached... That,
    coupled with the fact that the Hebrew and English are in such a strong embrace,
    I think sends a message that would echo general Arab resentment, which I'm sure
    is contrary to what you want.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-27 21:56:08'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: ">That, coupled with the fact that the Hebrew and English are in such a strong
    embrace, I think sends a message that would echo general Arab resentment, which
    I\u2019m sure is contrary to what you want.\r\n\r\nyea, i find that true and problematic,
    perhaps i'll have to turn this over more. im about to go nuts. this is so hard.
    i think that i tried to make all languages have equal treatment, but maybe another
    structure will be more suitable, a triangle perhaps (though it's hard to use 6
    words in a logo, let alone putting them in a triangle.\r\n\r\n>This I don\u2019t
    understand.\r\nview attached image, look at the red line. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/yikes_4451.gif]"
  created: '2007-03-27 23:12:29'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/maybe_4016.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nanother composition
    sketch.\r\nthis time i adjusted the vertical widths of the strokes of the arabic
    so they would look like they are equal to the vertical width of the hebrew type.
    \r\n\r\n\r\ni aligned them as you can see, and maybe here it's a good start to
    make some cross language ligatures. \r\ni like it less, it's less brilliant, but
    it looks promising.\r\nwhat say you?\r\n\r\n\r\n(i attach the work process and
    the latest sketch).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/work process_6398.png]\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-28 00:22:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> this is so hard.\r\n\r\nReminds me of something...  :-/\r\n\r\n> look at
    the red line.\r\n\r\nI see the line, but not the problem.  :-)\r\nBut if you really
    want to you could\r\nmake the head of the \"P\" larger so\r\nthe red line bisects
    the counter.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-28 00:22:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The new structure looks decent, and it's much safer/easier.\r\n\r\nOne thing
    you might try there is dump the Yod and cut a horizontal slit towards the top
    of the alif to make a \"stub\" that's the Yod. Come to think of it you could try
    that in the original structure too, but on the tail of the \"meem\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-28 00:26:46'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: ">One thing you might try there is dump the Yod and cut a horizontal slit
    towards the top of the alif to make a \u201Cstub\u201D that\u2019s the Yod. Come
    to think of it you could try that in the original structure too, but on the tail
    of the \u201Cmeem\u201D\r\n\r\n\r\nhrant, im having a problem to understand. could
    you please make a small demonstration?\r\n\r\n(btw, here's another composition)\r\n(am
    i exaggerating here?)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/weird_3609.png]"
  created: '2007-03-28 00:42:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Yaron, I like your earlier version better, in that it knit together. I thought
    that the multi-lingual ligatures were a good idea. \r\n\r\nI don't see the problem
    of Arabic looking separate. I can't read Arabic script, but I thought that it
    was integrated with the Hebrew by last Arabic letter merging with the nun sofit
    and with the English by the first Arabic letter merging with the E. So wasn't
    the whole thing linked, and nothing slighted? \r\n\r\nYour latest look to me like
    a series of words instead of a coherent design."
  created: '2007-03-28 03:23:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Quick and dirty attempt:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PeaceCore_6467.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    alignments are unresolved - although I might say that that Arabic \"noon\" sticking
    out in the second one represents a person... You know, \"it sll starts with the
    individual\". Or something.  ;-)\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nExagerating? Not sure what you
    mean.\r\nBut I do think: it's a bit too plain; and the Arabic is too far right.\r\n\r\nOne
    interesting thing about your last attempt though is that, where previously the
    English/Futura was out of character with the whole, here it seems to be acting
    as a nice separator, preventing the three components from merging a little bit
    too strongly (hindering the reading).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-28 04:36:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hrant your re-work left off the nun sofit in 'garin'.\r\n\r\nWhen you said
    the Arabic and Hebrew were separate I guessed you might have mistaken the nun
    sofit for only a flourish on the Arabic, but it's not.\r\n\r\nAlso I don't think
    readability is the main thing in a logo. The balance of priorities much more toward
    having it cohere and be aesthetically strong. If you have to look twice at the
    shin/c ligature, it's no problem for a logo; it just makes it more memorable,
    providing it looks good.\r\n\r\nBy the way, in looking up 'garin', I see that
    it means 'stone, kernel or nucleus'. Is there any connotation of 'nuclear' as
    in 'nuclear weapon'?"
  created: '2007-03-28 13:46:40'
- author:
    name: sch2525
    picture: 112170
  body: "Yaronimus, your vertical version looks like a robot to me. Almost like a
    Transformer; maybe a Peace Core Hummer could turn into the Peace Core logo Transformer?
    That would make a good flash animation, no? haha\r\n\r\nIn your sketch that you
    posted at 6:22pm yesterday, the very top version reads \"Peace olgi\" to me because
    my mind wants to continue reading English despite the new characters.\r\n\r\nHrant's
    new alignment (bottom mark) looks very balanced. Nice job for just something \"quick
    and dirty.\" ;)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-28 14:14:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> left off the nun sofit in \u2018garin\u2019.\r\n\r\nOh, yes. Well, you
    know what I meant. :-)  But no, I knew it was a full\r\nletter (as my original
    complaint about possible illegibility reveals).\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t think readability
    is the main thing in a logo.\r\n\r\nIn general I agree, but:\r\n1) You don't want
    to have letters virtually absent (like the nun sofit in the very first version).\r\n2)
    When it comes to multi-script logos it's important for a reader to quickly pick
    out the parts he can read and those he can't. Note how Scott is tempted to read
    \"Peace olgi\"! Because I can read Arabic I didn't see that at all at first.\r\n\r\nThe
    shin/C ligature on the other hand is definitely OK, I agree.\r\n\r\n> Is there
    any connotation of \u2018nuclear\u2019 as in \u2018nuclear weapon\u2019?\r\n\r\nYes,
    we don't want to remind people that Israel has 200 of them ready to go.  :-/\r\n\r\n>
    looks like a robot\r\n\r\nIt can also be seen as a building, assumedly a place
    of worship.\r\nProbably not good here.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-28 14:57:02'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: "i was so stuck with the logo. \r\ni suddenly remembered the movie \"contact\"
    with jody foster. in the movie they recievend some blueprints from aliens in order
    to build a kind of portal. they couldn't assemble them properly, something wasn't
    right, untill some character solved the problem by assembling it in a 3d way,
    instead of the normal 2d blueprint.\r\nanyway, then i realised that i can try
    using a different angle and assembling. not 3d offcours, but in a different direction.\r\nthis
    logo is so hard. it's like a gigsaw and a peace treaty.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/231321_3808.png] "
  created: '2007-04-11 16:21:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I like 14 best, as it has the visual idea of 'core' with the English and
    Hebrew words for core at the core. I just worry that it might be too complex and
    busy. \r\n\r\nA simpler solution would be just to put all the 'Peace' words on
    the top line and the 'core' words on the bottom, with the English starting at
    the left and the Hebrew at the right and the Arabic in the Middle. This may not
    work or be boring visually though, I don't know. \r\n\r\nThe diamond shaped logo
    with the horizontal lines underneath gives it some pizzaz also. "
  created: '2007-04-11 16:35:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I like these explorations. Especially when the Hebrew and Arabic fuse while
    the English acts like a third party. On the other hand, most of those attempts
    have one serious problem or other (and in all of them the Arabic too large/dark).
    Number 1 is nice as an arrow, but too spread out; 2 is kind of a half-baked arrow;
    3 and 5 are hard to read; 4 has great potential; 6, 7 and 8 could work, but probably
    not very well; 9 has potential; the rest are trying too hard, and will be pretty
    impossible to tame I think.\r\n\r\nNumber 4 is interesting, dynamic, edgy and
    balanced except for the Arabic being too strong. I would make this one work. Alternatively
    9 has a more classical feel, if you don't mind the centrality of the English (and
    the somewhat Arabic motif of the diamond). If you go with 9 you need to make the
    diamond equal-sided (right now it's rectangular) by shortening the top-left and
    bottom-right sides or lengthening the other two sides*. In the former case the
    bottom-right is easy (just shorten the alif and lam - the first two letters in
    the second Arabic word) and the top-left has some room in the last letter of the
    Hebrew. In the latter case you can easily place a tatweel (apparently a better
    term than kashida) after the \"seen\" but I'm not sure how best to lengthen the
    first word of the Hebrew (maybe by over-shooting the last letter outside the diamond,
    which might actually be a nice match to the Arabic \"meem\" which is already doing
    that).\r\n\r\n* Or a combination of both.\r\n\r\nAll that said, are you sure you
    want to give up on your previous attempts?\r\n\r\n> with the English and Hebrew
    words for core at the core.\r\n\r\nNo concern for the Arabic? You could at least
    wonder\r\nout loud which of the two Arabic words is the \"core\".\r\n\r\nIn fact
    in 14 the Arabic reads out of order.\r\n\r\n> I just worry that it might be too
    complex\r\n\r\nSounds familiar.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-11 17:11:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">which of the two Arabic words \r\n\r\nI assumed it was the bottom right,
    which puts it not as much at the core, which is a weakness in the design; I don't
    know how much. \r\n\r\nThe English words are appropriate because the English and
    then the Americans have been key power players over the past century, along with
    the Arabs and the Jews. And all three will have to play a part to create peace--may
    it come soon.\r\n\r\nHrant, I do think simplicity is generally a virtue in logos.
    You disagree?"
  created: '2007-04-11 17:28:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the English and then the Americans have been\r\n> key power players over
    the past century\r\n\r\nBecause they like Eastern Mediterranean food? My wild
    guess is it's because they have something to gain (at the expense of others).
    The Jews are Arabs are the two protagonists here, the ones with life, land and
    dignity to worry about (as much as the West plays favorites so heavily). The reason
    to have English in the logo is mostly due to the fact that it's currently the
    lingua franca of the world.\r\n\r\nSimplicity: I think it has a role to play,
    but too often it becomes a goal in its own right, harming the actual effectiveness
    of things. More than something you read, a logo is a shape you observe and memorize.
    In this case for example it might make great sense to have the English carry the
    burden of legibility while getting the Hebrew and Arabic to make the logo attractive
    and memorable. This happens to be something 9 does very well.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-11 17:34:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">9 does very well\r\n\r\nSomehow I didn't focus on 9. You're right, it is
    strong. And I agree with what you say about simplicity here. Also with your comment
    about the others being hard to 'tame' I think we are of the same mind on this.
    There is a problem about the  English in 9 not quite working visually. Should
    it be one line instead of two? "
  created: '2007-04-11 18:34:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think if you made it one line it would \"wash out\" so to speak.\r\nAnother
    option is what 7 is trying, but I think it's totally not working.\r\n\r\nOne other
    appropriate thing about 9 that I just realized is that it looks like this\r\ntricky-to-balance
    thing is pivoting on the English... which is of course entirely\r\ntoo accurate!
    \ :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-11 18:45:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Looking again I think maybe the problem is that if there are two lines the
    point of diamond should be directly over the apex of the A. I''m not sure, but
    work on alignment & spacing may make the whole thing click. '
  created: '2007-04-11 19:42:18'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: thanks for all of the attention and help, results will come soon :)
  created: '2007-04-14 13:24:58'
date: '2007-03-21 02:01:37'
files:
- filename: logo sk1.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/logo sk1.pdf
node_type: forum
title: peace-core - three languages logo and branding

---
