---
author:
  name: twardoch
  picture: 110427
body: "<em>Disclaimer: This posting represents my personal views.</em>\r\n\r\nSometimes,
  both the font developer and the user would be better off if with several separate
  fonts instead of a font that is heavily loaded with various stylistic variants.
  If your font includes four different kinds of decorative initials along with a regular
  uppercase and regular lowercase, you may decide to offload the decorative initials
  into separate fonts. Putting various kinds of glyphs into one font file typically
  makes sense if you wish to minimize manual user intervention (e.g. when certain
  glyphs should be inserted contextually along with other glyphs), or if you wish
  to have kerning between specific glyphs. \r\n\r\nA typical border-case for a decision
  whether to put glyphs into a separate fonts or into one font is small caps. Some
  font developers choose to offer smallcap fonts as separate fonts rather than integrating
  these smallcaps into the basic fonts. \r\n\r\nOne advantage of such fonts would
  be that they would give users access to smallcaps in applications that don't support
  OpenType Layout features. Also, some typeface designs simply do not have lowercase
  but only have smallcap forms (e.g. <a href=\"http://www.font.org/mf/fonts/urw/chevalier/\">Chevalier</a>
  or <a href=\"http://www.font.org/ad/type/browser/P/P_1724.html\">Trajan Pro</a>).
  \r\n\r\nI would like to discuss such scenario. If such font is offered in OpenType
  format, it should include appropriately defined OpenType Layout features. \r\n\r\nA
  smallcap-only font should include: \r\n\u2014 uppercase glyphs named \"A\", \"B\",
  \"C\", associated with the normal uppercase Unicode codepoints\r\n\u2014 smallcap
  glyphs named \"a\", \"b\", \"c\", associated with the normal lowercase Unicode codepoints\r\n\r\nOptionally,
  it could also include a second set of smallcap glyphs named \"A.c2sc\", \"B.c2sc\",
  \"C.c2sc\". \r\n\r\nIdeally, the font should also include at least two sets of digits,
  punctuation etc. \r\n\r\nOne scenario would be that the default glyphs for digits
  and punctuation named \"one\", \"two\", \"question\" etc. associated with the regular
  Unicode codepoints are the ones suitable for all-smallcap setting (i.e. smaller).
  In addition, the font would include a second set of digits and punctuation named
  \"one.case\", \"two.case\", \"question.case\" etc. that would be sized so that they
  would work in an all-caps setting. \r\n\r\nThe other scenario could be that the
  default glyphs are made so that they work with a mixed uppercase+smallcap setting,
  and a second set (smaller, named \"one.smcp\", \"two.smcp\", \"question.smcp\" etc.)
  is provided to work with all-smallcap settings. Optionally, a third set (largest,
  named \"one.case\", \"two.case\", \"question.case\" etc.) is provided to work in
  an all-caps setting. \r\n\r\nLet's consider the feature definitions for such font:
  \r\n\r\n<code>feature titl {\r\nlookup titl1 {\r\nsub a by A; \r\nsub b by B;\r\nsub
  c by C;\r\nsub one by one.case; # Only if you have separate all-uppercase digits\r\nsub
  two by two.case; # Only if you have separate all-uppercase digits\r\nsub question
  by question.case; # Only if you have separate all-uppercase punctuation\r\n} titl1;
  \r\n} titl; \r\n\r\nfeature case { \r\nlookup titl1; \r\n} case; \r\n\r\nfeature
  smcp {\r\n# This feature definition only substitutes digits \r\n# and punctuation
  from the default forms \r\n# (whatever they might be) into forms that work \r\n#
  in a mixed uppercase+smallcap setting. \r\n# If the default digits and punctuation
  work fine, \r\n# the \"smcp\" feature should have one idle substitution, \r\n# e.g.
  sub .notdef by .notdef; \r\nsub one by one.smcp; \r\nsub two by two.smcp; \r\nsub
  question by question.smcp; \r\n} smcp; \r\n\r\nfeature c2sc {\r\n# This feature
  substitutes uppercase letters\r\n# as well as digits and punctuation\r\n# into forms
  that work in an all-smallcap setting. \r\nsub A by A.c2sc; # Could also be sub A
  by a;\r\nsub B by B.c2sc; # Could also be sub B by b;\r\nsub C by C.c2sc; # Could
  also be sub C by c;\r\nsub one by one.smcp; # If your default digits don't work
  in all-smallcap\r\nsub two by two.smcp; # If your default digits don't work in all-smallcap\r\nsub
  question by question.smcp; # If your default punctuation doesn't work in all-smallcap\r\n}
  c2sc; </code>\r\n\r\nThis is the general principle. If your \"smallcap digits\"
  in this font are oldstyle figures, you could also include <em>onum</em> and <em>lnum</em>
  features, appropriately. You could even be creative and have four sets of capital
  letters: tall uppercase (as \"A\", \"B\"), 85%-sized (as \"A.smcp\", \"B.smcp\"),
  75%-sized (as \"a\", \"b\") and x-height sized (as \"A.pcap\", \"B.pcap\"). The
  font could contain <em>smcp</em>, <em>c2sc</em>, <em>pcap</em>, <em>p2sc</em> and
  probably also <em>ss01</em>, <em>ss02</em> and <em>salt</em> to map between the
  various sets. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "My comment comes about after 10+ years of having small caps in the basic
    font, so you can rightly assume I'm prejudiced in favor of that structure, and
    have worked out acceptable compromises for any problems that occasions. I imagine
    people who have used type differently may feel otherwise.\r\n\r\nWhen we first
    started using PostScript Type 1 fonts, I decided that all glyphs in a font (e.g.,
    roman, italic, bold, etc.) should be in one font database. This minimized several
    maintenance issues; if you were going to make a change in cap-cap kerning, or
    cap-punctuation kerning, there would only be one place to make the change.\r\n\r\nSince
    our typesetting program would only handle 255 characters in a font, we did had
    to make a separate small cap font for setting type, but we could build the font
    change into the \"go to small caps\" command, so this \"font\" was both temporary,
    and a purely technical matter. For any job, making up a job-based small cap encoding
    vector allowed us to encode whatever style of numbers were needed -- or we could
    make up two small cap fonts, one for text, one for subheads, each using different
    figure styles, etc. \r\n\r\nIf OpenType were to move to a separate font for small
    caps, I think we'd lose some of that flexibility, which is now essentially programmable
    with OT features.\r\n\r\nI realize most people don't make up database fonts, or
    don't modify existing OT fonts even when the EULA permits. And I allow it can
    be a bit of a nightmare to go into an existing OT font & change the kerning, but
    it often times has to be done, to avoid much handwork.\r\n\r\nIn short, one of
    the things I like about the OpenType format is its database structure, and would
    not want to give that up.\r\n\r\nBest,\r\n\r\nCharles Ellertson  "
  created: '2007-03-22 03:04:05'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: 'Adam, with all due respect: this idea is pathetic!'
  created: '2007-03-22 03:17:08'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Miguel, \r\n\r\nwith all due respect, you wrote: \r\n\r\n> this idea is pathetic!\r\n\r\nAs
    I explained earlier, there are some designs that only come with uppercase and
    smallcaps but without lowercase. This includes <a href=\"http://www.font.org/mf/fonts/linotype/chevalier-lt/\">Chevalier</a>,
    <a href=\"http://www.font.org/mf/fonts/bitstream/bank-gothic/familytree.html\">Bank
    Gothic</a> or Adobe\u2019s own <a href=\"http://www.font.org/ad/type/browser/P/P_1506.html\">Sava
    Pro</a> and <a href=\"http://www.font.org/ad/type/browser/P/P_1724.html\">Trajan
    Pro</a>. \r\n\r\nSava Pro has no lowercase, just uppercase glyphs (associated
    with uppercase Unicode codepoints) and smallcap glyphs (associated with lowercase
    Unicode codepoints). In addition, Sava Pro contains a <em>smcp</em> feature that
    replaces figures and punctuation with smallcap variants as well as a <em>c2sc</em>
    feature that replaces uppercase, figures and punctuation with smallcap variants
    (the smallcap letters are named \"A.sc\", \"B.sc\" etc., and are identical duplicates
    of the \"a\", \"b\" etc. glyphs). Was it Jovica Veljovi\u0107's idea, the designer's
    of this typeface, that \u2014 in your own words \u2014 was \"pathetic\", or was
    the \"pathetic\" idea by one of the font engineers at Adobe who wrote the feature
    definition code that implemented it? Please make sure to find out who it was,
    and tell him that.  \r\n\r\nOr wait, was it perhaps the guy who wrote the feature
    definitions for Trajan Pro? Because this is also exactly how Trajan Pro is implemented
    (smallcaps on lowercase glyphs, <em>c2sc, smcp & case</em> features; the difference
    from what I suggest is that the <em>case</em> feature does not covert the letters
    in those fonts, nor do the fonts include a <em>titl</em> feature, but those really
    are implementational details). Was this idea \"pathetic\"? \r\n\r\nOr do you think
    that designing a typeface with only uppercase and smallcaps is \"pathetic\" itself?
    \r\n\r\nRather than proposing something entirely new, I\u2019m trying to suggest
    what developers should do better to implement what they\u2019re doing already.
    Underware ships separate smallcap fonts for <a href=\"http://www.font.org/mf/fonts/underware/fakir/\">Fakir</a>
    or <a href=\"http://www.font.org/mf/fonts/underware/auto-1/\">Auto</a>. Other
    vendors like Elsner+Flake or URW++ do the same. However, these fonts do not offer
    functionality such as all-smallcaps (through appropriate features such as <em>c2sc</em>).
    My suggestion tries to improve that situation, and I follow the examples set by
    Adobe in Sava Pro and Trajan Pro. \r\n\r\nOr do you think it is \"pathetic\" that
    four major versions of Microsoft Office since the inception of OpenType (2000,
    XP, 2003 and 2007) have not offered proper access to smallcaps? \r\n\r\nI\u2019ve
    seen people revert to drastic methods like using Visual Basic macros in Microsoft
    Word that replace lowercase Unicodes with PUA codepoints that Adobe used for smallcap
    glyphs -- a practice that obviously bastardizes the underlying text string and
    makes the document unsearchable. Do you think my idea that avoids this problem
    is more \"pathetic\" than these solutions? \r\n\r\nFinally, I would most kindly
    ask you to explain me, where exactly my posting contradicts the OpenType specification.
    I'd prefer to hear some substantial arguments from you, but if you feel more comfortable
    with name-calling, please go ahead. I can take it. \r\n\r\nReally: please find
    the guy at Adobe who wrote the feature definitions for Sava Pro and Trajan Pro,
    and please tell him that his idea is \"pathetic\". And then kindly report back
    what he said. I'll take care of forwarding that very eloquent comment of yours
    to Jovica Veljovi\u0107. \r\n\r\nKind regards, \r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-22 04:13:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Right Adam.\r\n\r\nThere's no need to include alternate characters, such
    as small caps, in a font unless there is contextual interaction (via kerning,
    or OpenType features) with the basic characters.\r\n\r\nI'm considering a typestyle
    with two sizes of small cap. I'll put the usual \"small caps\" in the standard
    font, and the other, which I will call \"middle caps\" in a font suffixed -MSC.\r\n\r\nThat
    will be easier for me to do, and easier for the end user, for many reasons.\r\n\r\nBut
    this has nothing to do with your feature definitions!"
  created: '2007-03-22 05:03:16'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Ps. In case of Auto, the designers (Underware) created the uppercase, smallcaps
    and lowercase at the same time, so it was merely a choice of packaging that they
    decided to place the smallcaps into a separate font. But there are typefaces that
    get developed gradually. Trajan was originally developed as an uppercase-only
    font. Later, the smallcaps were added. One could imagine, that in a yet-another
    iteration lowercase is added to such font. For example, Aldo Novarese's Microgramma
    was originally released as a small-caps typeface, and lowercase was added several
    years later, after the typeface proved to be successful. \r\n\r\nSmallcaps practically
    never interact with lowercase in one font. Smallcap punctuation and figures mostly
    needs to be drawn separately, so an uppercase+smallcap glyphset is an independent
    being from an uppercase+lowercase glyphset, just like an slanted-uppercase+italic-lowercase
    glyphset is a separate being. \r\n\r\nIt is a matter of preference and convention
    that in the Western markets, we put italic glyphs into separate fonts from upright
    glyphs, while in the Japanese markets, italic and upright Roman letters are often
    put in the same Japanese font, which then uses the <em>ital</em> OpenType feature
    to switch between these. This clearly shows that even between upright and italic,
    the border is not that hardly drawn. \r\n\r\nThe same applies for smallcaps: sometimes
    smallcap designs are not at all subordinate to lowercase but are a separate being,
    conceptually. They have different spacing, different figures, different punctuation.
    They only share uppercase letters with the roman design. So contemplating whether
    to put smallcaps as a subordinate set in the roman font, or into a separate font,
    are not out of question. Miguel may think that ideas such as Novarese\u2019s are
    \"pathetic\" but there are enough designers out there who think otherwise. \r\n\r\nThe
    point I'm making is that if you decide to publish your smallcaps in a separate
    OpenType font, the font should also include some relevant features, such as <em>c2sc</em>
    and even <em>smcp</em>. \r\n\r\nThe question how you package your final font has
    little to do with how you design your font. Of course you can have the small caps
    and the lowercase in the same font file during design, just like you wouldn\u2019t
    have two sets of small cap glyphs while you\u2019re designing. During design,
    you would often use Multiple Master. After the design is done, many technical
    steps need to be done, such as generating single instances from MM, separating
    fonts, duplicating some glyphs, removing others etc. \r\n\r\nThe difference between
    \"database fonts\" and final products still exists, and will continue to exist.
    \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-22 05:31:34'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\nincreasingly, I tend to think about smallcaps being (conceptually)
    something like optical sizes of uppercase. I mean, they\u2019re actually what
    they originally were: smaller capital letters. They\u2019re \"smaller\" not by
    mere geometric scaling, but they\u2019re \"typographically smaller\". Just like
    you can either put your body-sized glyphs and your display-sized glyphs into the
    same font (Adobe Garamond Pro, <em>titl</em> feature) or you can put them into
    separate fonts (Garamond Premier Pro Regular and Garamond Premier Pro Display),
    you can have the flexibility to decide what to do with smallcaps. In your case,
    you could consider having lowercase in one font, one set of smallcaps in another
    font, and the other set of smallcaps in a third font, or you could merge one of
    these smallcap sets into the lowercase font. It\u2019s up to you. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-22 05:44:29'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Or do you think that designing a typeface with only uppercase and smallcaps
    is \u201Cpathetic\u201D itself?</em>\r\n\r\nNo. What I find pathetic is the suggestion
    of putting the small caps in a separate font.\r\n\r\n> <em>Or do you think it
    is \u201Cpathetic\u201D that four major versions of Microsoft Office since the
    inception of OpenType (2000, XP, 2003 and 2007) have not offered proper access
    to smallcaps?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, definitely!\r\n\r\n> <em>that replace lowercase
    Unicodes with PUA codepoints that Adobe used for smallcap glyphs \u2014 a practice
    that obviously bastardizes the underlying text string and makes the document unsearchable.</em>\r\n\r\nExactly,
    that's one more reason we stopped using PUAs.\r\n\r\n> <em>Do you think my idea
    that avoids this problem is more \u201Cpathetic\u201D than these solutions?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    strongly believe that your efforts would have a stronger impact in the long run
    if you'd focus on pushing things forward, rather than resorting in workaround
    methods. I definitely don't see your proposal as a \"solution\". It is a hack
    that sends us back to the time when we had to rely on Expert fonts and the like.
    I don't think your solution does a good service to the users.\r\n\r\nHere's a
    suggestion, start a new thread with the goal of uniting as many supporters as
    you can, to demand (yes, that's the word) full support of the OpenType spec. You
    might also want to do a poll to have an idea of which ones the users and/or developers
    would like to see implemented first. Then, in unison, flood all the major app
    developers with your (everyone's that is) requests. Here's Adobe's: http://www.adobe.com/cfusion/mmform/index.cfm?name=wishform\r\n\r\nTo
    me, this would clearly be a better usage of the bandwidth.\r\n\r\nAs for the Sava
    Pro and Trajan Pro examples you mention, have you ever heard me saying that a
    typeface without lowercase forms is pathetic? I'm failing to see the reasoning
    that led you link the two.\r\n\r\nOne other thing you should be aware of, is that
    you're basing some of your key reasons in what you find inside a few Adobe's fonts
    that were built many years ago, when OpenType was in its infancy. Therefore, the
    code that went into those fonts might not reflect the current best practices (which
    is one reason why we're currently revising the whole library)."
  created: '2007-03-22 11:08:13'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>I\u2019m considering a typestyle with two sizes of small cap. I\u2019ll
    put the usual \u201Csmall caps\u201D in the standard font, and the other, which
    I will call \u201Cmiddle caps\u201D in a font suffixed -MSC.</em>\r\n\r\nNick,
    this sounds like a good case for a Stylistic Set.\r\n\r\nP.S.: In the same font!"
  created: '2007-03-22 11:09:24'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>I tend to think about smallcaps being (conceptually) something like
    optical sizes of uppercase.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think this is over-simplified. Are
    you suggesting that, assuming a small cap height of 75%, the small caps for 12pt
    are the same as the capital letters for 9pt? \r\n\r\nThat is certainly not the
    case. The capital letters of the 9pt size (if optically compensated) are wider
    and bolder than the 12pt ones but the 12pt small caps are even wider, heavier
    and have longer serifs than the 9pt capitals.\r\n\r\nThe small caps compensation
    is different (generally stronger) than the optical sizes compensation."
  created: '2007-03-22 11:38:46'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Not sure whether to post this here or <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/32399\">there</a>
    ...\r\n\r\nOf course one could send particular feature requests to Adobe <cite>or</cite>
    Microsoft <cite>or</cite> Apple. But what is important is that Adobe <cite>and</cite>
    Microsoft <cite>and</cite> Apple finally agree on something -- which would affect
    both font and layout engine design. \r\n\r\nJust a recent example:\r\n'case' is
    differently implemented in Adobe fonts and in Microsoft's Cleartype fonts (also
    adopted in new fonts from a major foundry). Adobe's implementation also covers
    substitution of oldstyle by lining numerals, so that numerals match uppercase
    glyphs. Microsoft's implementation only cares for punctuation &c but not for numeral
    substition. As an effect, if you use the latter in Adobe applications and apply
    All Caps, you will receive uppercase letters in combination with oldstyle numerals.\r\nThis
    nicely indicates dependency of the way fonts are built and the way OT features
    are implemented in the application (it is more than a mere 'UI' thing): While
    the Adobe method assumes that an application's All Caps option calls 'case' (and
    'cpsp') only, the Microsoft method assumes that All Caps calls both 'case' and
    'lnum' to give a typographically correct result. [The latter is my conclusion.
    No idea what Microsoft has in mind. And unless they finally support typographic
    OT features in their applications, this is an issue that cannot be decided upon.]\r\nOther
    issues: implementation of 'cpsp' (if at all) and 'ss**' (mutually exclusive or
    additive).\r\n\r\nThings like these are not solved by mere feature requests to
    one company. What is required is that font plus layout engine developers of the
    three have a nice day together, with coffee, tee, biscuits and cake, and go through
    the set of currently supported OT features one by one, and compare the way OT
    features are addressed in their applications. If there are differences, try to
    agree on one solution. I think the set of features supported (InDesign CS2 and
    WPF specs) does not differ that much any more, so there already is a solid common
    ground.\r\nThis is something that cannot be done from outside.\r\n\r\nI am a bit
    oldfashioned and prefer to write someone who I know really exists instead of filling
    in some form.&nbsp;&nbsp;:)\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2007-03-22 12:29:13'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Smallcaps practically never interact with lowercase in one font. Smallcap
    punctuation and figures mostly needs to be drawn separately, so an uppercase+smallcap
    glyphset is an independent being from an uppercase+lowercase glyphset, just like
    an slanted-uppercase+italic-lowercase glyphset is a separate being.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>It
    is a matter of preference and convention that in the Western markets, we put italic
    glyphs into separate fonts from upright glyphs, while in the Japanese markets,
    italic and upright Roman letters are often put in the same Japanese font, which
    then uses the ital OpenType feature to switch between these. This clearly shows
    that even between upright and italic, the border is not that hardly drawn. </cite>\r\n\r\nDepends
    on what you mean by \"interact.\" It is true that you usually don't find both
    a small cap and a lower case letter in the same word.  I know of one publisher
    who banishes small caps for acronyms if GmbH appears in the text. But you do find
    both in the same sentence, in justified copy. Now a usual convention is that small
    caps are slightly letterspaced, and the letterspace instruction works on the spaceband
    character as well, so everything works pretty well. Italics on the other hand,
    often are narrower than thier roman counterparts, and can take a smaller wordspace
    value -- all this in justified copy. When the composition system picks up the
    spaceband value from the font, it is a plus to have a separate italic font.\r\n\r\nA
    different situation occurs when the small caps are used for subheads. In fact,
    back in the linecaster days, Linotype sometimes cut two versions of small caps
    (in the same size), one to be used for text, the second to be used for subheads.
    I beleive Linotype Caslon had this feature.\r\n\r\nIn this context, having a separate
    small caps font makes sense, just like having a separate titling font makes sense.
    But small caps designed to run in justified copy should be included in he basic
    font, and should be designed to work with the lowercase letterforms.\r\n "
  created: '2007-03-22 12:34:22'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Maybe the reason why we feel that italics should be a separate font is that
    in general every glyph has a counterpart in the other font. Therefore we can consider
    the italics, bold versions and optical sizes a <cite>global variation</cite> that
    justifies globally switching to a different font. \r\n\r\nSmall caps are just
    a few glyphs tewaked to match or harmonise with others in the same font and they
    belong to the other glyphs in that font stylistically in every aspect. The fact
    that putting small caps into a separate font results in redundancy (identical
    glyphs in both fonts) is probably what makes some people feel that practice is
    wrong."
  created: '2007-03-22 12:53:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Damn,\r\nI just wrote a long post that failed to post because the site timed
    out while posting. I am to pis\xDFed to retype it now :-(\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-22 13:29:34'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite> I am to pis\xDFed</cite>\r\n\r\nChris, shouldn't that be \"too pi\xDFed\"?\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-03-22 14:55:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL! Yes Charles, that was my first take at it. My concern was with folks
    who did not see the double ess and thought it might be a B. Europeans would easily
    read the \xDF but some Americans might get pi\xDFed for seeing piBed :-)\r\nSee
    what happens when you try to work around the sensoring software?\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS:
    the to instead of too was just a screwup :-)"
  created: '2007-03-22 15:06:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Depends on what you mean by \u201Cinteract.\u201D </em>\r\n\r\nQuite
    literally, effect each other's behaviour.\r\nSo yes there are very rare exceptions,
    such as GmbH in \"lc+sc\", and also perhaps some uses of \"Mc\".\r\n\r\n<em>My
    concern was with folks who did not see the double ess and thought it might be
    a B.</em>\r\n\r\nDude, this is Typophiile!"
  created: '2007-03-22 16:47:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yes, home of Missgigles :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-22 17:25:26'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "Adam,\r\n\r\nI think you underestimate amount of work associated with placing
    smallcaps into separate font. In addition to punctuation, you will have to add
    another copy of diacritics, mark attachment lookups, capital letter kerning, different
    numeral styles, etc. \r\n\r\nIf your real goal to have smallcap font working in
    non-OT savvy applications, the best approach for me is to put two fonts into ttc
    file, and have only different cmap table mapping lower case characters to smallcap
    glyphs. Shared glyphs, layout tables, metrics will allow both fonts to have full
    functionality and behave well in different types of applications. So, you will
    have this smallcap font to be a simple addition to the main, fully functional
    font.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey"
  created: '2007-03-22 17:41:28'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Adam, I applaud you for bringing this issue up, because the Small Caps feature
    embedded in the OpenType feature menu is one of my pet peeves.\r\n\r\n<em>Small
    caps are just a few glyphs tewaked to match or harmonise with others in the same
    font and they belong to the other glyphs in that font stylistically in every aspect.</em>\r\n\r\nTim,
    I must respectfully disagree with this. Small caps are as much of a style difference
    as Roman and italics. They often require their own complete set. I'm sure some
    type designers would agree with that. You also have to take into account that
    small caps may also have different numeral sets than the Roman counterpart, not
    to mention initial caps (which is another debate entirely.)\r\n\r\nI can't talk
    much about the coding issues discussed (because quite frankly I don't understand
    any of it) but from a USER standpoint, the small caps feature\u2014 I'd be happy
    if it went away. I want to see it as a seperate font in the pull down menu\u2014
    like the old days. This feature wasn't broken, so why did it get fixed?\r\n\r\nI
    don't want anyone to be offended by this, but the user seems to always get the
    short end of the stick here. Programmers and users do not speak the same language.
    What is ironic here is that something that was probably done to be more convenient,
    is actually less convenient.\r\n\r\nDo a user survey of graphic designers (and
    Typophile is not the best place because we're more type savvy than most). I think
    you'll find a lot of graphic designers will share my view here.\r\n\r\nSome pressure
    could also go towards Microsoft, because honestly their lack of concern in regards
    to OpenType in their software applications has caused enough headaches in graphic
    designer's daily lives. Its really inexcusable.\r\n\r\nOh, and Chris...\"Select
    all\" and copy at certain points. That way its on your clipboard. (It's happened
    to me before too.) :)"
  created: '2007-03-22 20:32:39'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I'm only a user, but in most instances I'm very glad that small caps are in
    the font. The few instances I'd like small caps to be separate are when I set
    enough of a block that I find myself needing small caps punctuation. But, traditionally
    (and in my own viewpoint), small caps shouldn't be used to such an extent. The
    magazine, STEPInside Design, has huge blocks of all small caps which suffer greatly
    from the punctuation not being aligned and sized for small caps. (Not to mention
    that those blocks are set too tight.)
  created: '2007-03-22 21:10:15'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Terry,\r\n\r\nI too am a user only, but I suspect we occupy different ends
    of the *user* spectrum. I only work on books, and 90% of the small caps I set
    are run in to regular sentences. My guess is that 90% of the small caps you use
    stand alone on a line by themselves; what I would term <cite>display</cite>.\r\n\r\nThis
    points up the type designer's nightmare, at least if they are working on fonts
    that may have both text and display uses.\r\n\r\nI also run into both italic and
    small cap occurrence that \"interact\" in the sense used here, i.e., letters that
    are set with roman letters with no space intervening (except what kerning we have
    to add by hand). This occurs in specialized instances; the analysis of poetry,
    phonetics, etc. I expect to have to fiddle with them in such cases, but the *design*
    needs to be compatible with the roman.\r\n\r\nI just pulled out Adrian Wilson's
    <cite>The Design of Books</cite> where he shows Linotype's Caslon Old Face. In
    addition to the usual suspects, there are swash letters, lower-case roman and
    italic letters with long and short descenders, regular small caps, special two-letter
    small caps, single-letter italics (so they don't have to fit on the same matrix
    as the roman), special logotypes (what most of us would call ligatures, though
    strictly, ligatures are tied letters), and so on.\r\n\r\nObviously, this effort
    only makes sense for a text font, and some of these sorts were needed only because
    of the linecasting machine. But that aside, I'm beginning to believe that Adam
    is onto something, where the separate small-cap font is intended for display.
    \ "
  created: '2007-03-22 21:20:42'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>Small caps are as much of a style difference as Roman and italics.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo,
    what would you say is the stylistic difference to the other glyphs  then? I would
    say they are specifically designed <cite>not</cite> to show any stylistic differences.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    They often require their own complete set.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, they never require
    their own complete set. I simply cannot imagine that anyone would ever do a smallcap-period,
    for example. The same goes for many other glyphs in a font."
  created: '2007-03-22 21:51:08'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>My guess is that 90% of the small caps you use stand alone on a line
    by themselves; what I would term display.</em>\r\n\r\nYou are right on the money,
    Charles. I'm glad to hear your take on it because I figured a book designer would
    have a different experience than I.\r\n\r\nTiff, STEPInside Design needs someone
    to step inside their design. :) It is lacking in comparison to Print and HOW.\r\n\r\n<em>I
    simply cannot imagine that anyone would ever do a smallcap-period, for example.</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    got me, Tim! :) Punctuation, though I would think is an easy fix.  (Though I am
    sure I could be wrong here.) I'd think the designer wouldn't mind going the extra
    mile if it improved functionality for the user.\r\n\r\nThough I think the list
    can be somewhat cumbersome, I think Lucas De Groot's system for Thesis works best
    in regards to font styles:\r\n \r\nPlain\r\nItalic\r\nCaps\r\nCaps Italic\r\n\r\nAs
    an aside to this... Embedding small caps can also limit previews in font management
    programs. Something that you need to have a quick reference for in certain situations."
  created: '2007-03-22 23:27:13'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Biddy, I've been harping about your last comment lately, in that it boggles
    me that the major players in font management don't have a simple preview option
    for the complete character set. FontExpert <em>almost</em> has this, but none
    of the others I've come across even get close.\r\n\r\nAs for accessing true small
    caps in non-OT savvy apps, I don't really see the \"urgency\" seeing as most users
    of word processors (etc.) don't have a clue what small caps are anyway. Sure,
    it might be a way to \"educate the masses,\" but, for the most part, the masses
    aren't interested. While selfish, what I want is a font that makes my life easier
    where I need it to (in design software), and OT with small caps built in does
    that. Now, if only PS and Illustrator had the same (full) OT support that InD
    CS2 has..."
  created: '2007-03-23 06:13:35'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> I simply cannot imagine that anyone would ever \r\n> do a smallcap-period,
    for example.\r\n\r\nMaybe not necessarily regarding the shape but very often spacing-wise.
    \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-23 18:43:48'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "Adam, a good topic and interesting discussion. Unfortunately, I wouldn't
    sign up for that. As a type guy <em>and</em> a designer who has been using desktop
    publishing software for twenty years, I am quite glad to have small caps finally
    wrapped into the fonts. (And for that reason, I probabaly wouldn't mind having
    italics and bolds wrapped in there too -- but I don't want to have to make them!)
    It's just a matter of how this stuff is accessed, how much font you want to sell
    at once, and what you're used to.\r\n\r\nRemember, many font companies don't just
    sell to professional graphic designers. They sell to font users of every strata.
    My guess is that a great majority of font consumers overall are glad to have the
    small caps built-in and not separate. Companies like Adobe want to make advanced
    typographic features available to more people, more easily, and it seems to me
    that a \"small caps\" button in a UI from a single font will get used more than
    a separately-installed font.\r\n\r\nI really do think that most Adobe type customers
    are thrilled that all those separate Expert and SC fonts finally got folded together
    into single fonts. Encoding issues aside, it was a hassle, I think.\r\n\r\nI don't
    mind that others have their preferences. I mean, if someone prefers small caps
    as a separate font, I don't think it's a character defect. If all those people
    want to make their opinions known and reveal that, in fact, most users want small
    caps as separate fonts, well, that would be very interesting. But I think there's
    an advantage to having these things consistent, so I would expect the status quo
    to prevail in the OpenType mainstream."
  created: '2007-03-26 06:14:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I would expect the status quo to prevail</em>\r\n\r\nWhich particular
    quo though, MS or Adobe?"
  created: '2007-03-26 06:48:35'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Christopher, \r\n\r\nthanks for the feedback. I'm not convinced that OpenType
    Layout features are easier accessible in application UIs than single fonts. Single
    fonts have dropdown lists for families with arranged submenus that only list the
    styles included in a family (rather than listing 40 stub styles with square brackets
    around the styles that aren't present in the family, which is what is being done
    for OpenType Layout features in Adobe applications). \r\n\r\nWith WYSIWYG font
    menus activated, it takes just a quick glimpse of an eye for the user to judge
    what the visual styles of the characters are for all the fonts installed on the
    system, to find the one that matches the intended purpose. \r\n\r\nThe OpenType
    Layout feature selectors are usually buried deeper in the UI, they're not available
    on the \"top level\": in Adobe applications, some selectors are available on the
    top level but most are in an extra OpenType flyout submenu, while stylistic sets
    in InDesign even take two submenus to dig through; in Apple applications, the
    OpenType Layout features are buried in a small Typography palette that takes at
    least three clicks to access, so virtually nobody knows about it (even seasoned
    OpenType font developers are often stunned that TextEdit supports OpenType Layout
    features). \r\n\r\nWhile there are countless ways (e.g. in font management applications
    or in the WYSIWYG font menus) to see all styles of a family, I know *no single*
    application for Mac OS X or Windows that would show you the glyph repertoires
    of fonts installed on your system arranged by OpenType Layout features. I even
    don't know any application that would, say, display or flag all the fonts on my
    system that support a particular OpenType feature. \r\n\r\nChristopher, apart
    from writing my own scripts, do you know a way that I could see OpenType small
    caps for all fonts installed on my system somehow? Ideally in a way that I could
    check whether the font has small caps for plain English, accented Latin, or also
    Cyrillic and/or Greek. Please point me to a way that would let me discover all
    the Adobe OpenType fonts that have, say, Cyrillic small caps. \r\n\r\nI must admit
    that personally, when designing publications using OpenType fonts, I find those
    limitations very cumbersome. I think OpenType is great whenever some machinery
    is involved (ligation, contextual substitutions, positioning), whenever some single
    alternates are needed, also figure styles (because there can be so many of them).
    But small caps really have such a dramatic impact on the appearance of the type,
    and are practically never mixed with lowercase in the same *word* (so kerning
    would be necessary). \r\n\r\nIn fact, a case could be made that italics would
    benefit much more than small caps from being placed in the same font as the upright
    glyphs. For example, it is very common in typesetting practice to enclose italic
    phrases in upright punctuation (quotation marks, parantheses etc.) or follow italic
    words by upright signs -- depending on the context, it is often the only correct
    way, e.g. \r\n\r\n\u201CIs this some <em>schadenfreude</em>?\u201D he asked.\r\n\r\nKerning
    between the italic glyphs and the upright punctuation could solve many problems
    in typesetting, especially for clashes such as \u201C<em>f</em>)\u201D or \u201C<em>f</em>!\u201D.
    \r\n\r\nYou wrote in the <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/32413\">other thread</a>:
    \r\n> With not too much trouble, an \u2018ss**\u2019 feature can \r\n> be applied
    to a character style in InDesign, for \r\n> example, and applied to the first
    letter of \r\n> every paragraph with nested styles. \r\n\r\nThe same can be said
    for switching fonts to access small caps. I don\u2019t see why it should be different
    to define a character style that uses a separate small font as opposed to one
    that switches on small caps using an OpenType feature. \r\n\r\nAs I said, I\u2019m
    not saying that one solution is better than the other. All I\u2019m saying is
    that small caps is a particular border case where arguments can be made both ways.
    \r\n\r\nBest, \r\nAdam"
  created: '2007-03-26 06:53:05'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>I must admit that personally, when designing publications using OpenType
    fonts, I find those limitations</cite> [getting information about whether or not
    small caps are available] <cite>very cumbersome</cite>\r\n\r\nAdam, I can't imagine
    designing a publication without knowing the fonts I'm using pretty well -- how
    the characters space when set, let alone what the character compliment is. And
    I don't find WYSIWYG displays accurate enough to make spacing judgments, nor can
    I get a good sense of the page from a screen display -- printing out & trimming
    the sheet to the final size is the only way to be sure.\r\n\r\nPerhaps this is
    a difference in book work?"
  created: '2007-03-26 11:36:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I remember all too well the days of expert sets and search and replace to
    get formatting as desired. PLEASE, don\u2019t go back to that! If you are working
    on anything more than a page or two, style sheets are a must [I use them even
    for 1 page jobs]. If you work with clients who make changes (well Duh!), style
    sheets are a must. \r\nI recently repurchased a revised type family that we purchased
    originally in the mid 90s just to get the OpenType version. Much to my dismay,
    I found that all that had been done was to save the single files as opentype without
    making the expert sets part of the same font! Gawdhammit that pi\xDFed me off
    royally! The only features were kerning and the 2 basic fi and fl ligas. Here
    I am stuck with a friggin expert set again in 2007!\r\nIt seems that the problem
    of access to OpenType feature is more one of OS and App than of typeface design.
    Don\u2019t throw the baby out with the bath water. Should Adobe, Microsoft, and
    Apple sit down and work out something sensible regarding GUI and OpenType features?
    Certainly. OpenType is just an infant now and the world it was born into has yet
    to come to grips with how to deal with it. The interface is wonky. Illustrator
    and InD don\u2019t even do it the same way and both are part of the same Adobe
    suite!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-26 15:07:02'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>OpenType is just an infant now and the world it was born into has yet
    to come to grips with how to deal with it.</em>\r\n\r\nWord. <em>(Agreed.)</em>
    So is there anyway to come to a solution for this? I agree with everything Adam
    just said in his last post, so...\r\n\r\nHow about writing our own code? I'm sure
    I'm not the only one who has thought of some other features they'd like to see
    built in OpenType."
  created: '2007-03-27 01:20:03'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Charles, \r\n\r\nI find the opposite: in book work, I need to know the typeface
    very well. You usually just pick one typeface, and the typeface needs to work
    by itself, often with very little illustrations or photos. So the typeface needs
    to \"sit\" perfectly, the spacing is often more important than the graphic qualities
    of the face. \r\n\r\nIn magazine work, especially when prototyping different layouts
    and developing different design directions, publication designers often need to
    experiment a lot, sometimes mixing different styles for text and headline, and
    also trying different colors. I have spoken to full-time publication designers
    and book designers about their work, and from what I can tell, magazine layouts
    are among the most demanding when it comes to trying a large veriety of different
    typefaces. \r\n\r\nChris, \r\n\r\nthe search-and-replace thing you're mentioning
    was often because of ligatures. As I mentioned already, there are small-caps-only
    OpenType fonts, even from Adobe (Sava Pro, Trajan Pro) which are still conveniently
    equipped with appropriate OpenType Layout features so that ligatures, various
    figure sets etc. work as they should. \r\n\r\nOne of the most obvious cases that
    exemplifies that drawing a hard line between placing stylistically related alphabets
    into one font or separate fonts is Matthew Carter\u2019s Shelley family. \r\n\r\nAdobe
    and Linotype originally issued the Shelley Script family on three separate PostScript
    Type 1 fonts: Shelley Andante, Shelley Allegro and Shelley Volante. All three
    were stylistically separate. They were allowed to intermix but were three alphabets
    of three equally democratic position. When Adobe converted Shelley to OpenType,
    they merged the fonts into one: Shelley Std. The Andante set became the default
    alphabet, the only that gets wide exposure in WYSIWYG previews etc., while the
    Allegro and Volante sets were *demoted* to the position of \"alternates\". \r\n\r\nJust
    take a look at the presentation of Shelley Script on Linotype.com: \r\n<a href=\"http://www.linotypefont.com/1716/shelleyscript-family.html\">http://www.linotype.com/1716/shelleyscript-family.html</a>\r\n\r\nYou
    will notice that only the \"Andante\" variant has an \"OpenType\" icon next to
    it. This is because the merged font Shelley Std has been linked into the Andante
    style, suggesting that only one out of the three styles is available as OpenType.
    One need to dig to the Private Use Area section of the character map for Shelley
    Std on the Linotype website to actually see the other sets, and even then, it
    is *not* possible to preview the Allegro and Volante sets in running text. So
    if Linotype today sold only the OpenType version, the wonderfull Shelley Script
    would actually get *less* visual exposure and *worse* visual presentation than
    it was the case for the old PostScript Type 1 fonts. \r\n\r\nI think it is actually
    more difficult to judge Shelley Script's visual potential when looking at the
    OpenType version than it was the case for the old versions. \r\n\r\nAnd finally,
    the wonderful \"Andante\", \"Allegro\" and \"Volante\" names have been now replaced
    by wooden-sounding \"Stylistic Set 1\" and \"Stylistic Set 2\". \r\n\r\nDo we
    call that progress? \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-27 08:29:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have always hated the \"Stylistic Set\" numbering nonsense and agree completely
    on that issue. Shelley is a fifferent case than small caps completely though.
    Shelley would not be a choice often made for book work either, gorgeous as it
    may be.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-27 13:05:42'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Adam, I'm sorry I wsn't clear. I only do book work, and only know one or
    two magazine designers. Even these are really quarterlies rather than <cite>magazines</cite>.
    So yes, there are many ways to communicate many different kinds of information.
    But one more \"still.\" The magazines I'm familiar with do tend to use a small
    selection of fonts for the magazine. And when they occasionally try a new display
    font for a particular situation, I usually mutter a quite \"designer boredom\"
    & get on with my reading. Very few \"nice touch\" mutters. \r\n\r\nThe advertisements
    in magazines are an entirely different matter, but I would think there is usually
    no thought of them fitting into the overall magazine design. Maybe I read the
    wrong stuff. \r\n\r\nTerry:\r\n\r\n<cite>How about writing our own code? I\u2019m
    sure I\u2019m not the only one who has thought of some other features they\u2019d
    like to see built in OpenType.</cite>\r\n\r\nOf course, and you should. I'd guess
    your problem is that in your work, many of the fonts you want to use are new,
    and a number of the newer foundries, or newer reincarnations of older foundries
    have EULA's prohibiting this. The thing to work on is \"the fonts you want to
    use\" -- only want fonts with a EULA that permits modification for personal use."
  created: '2007-03-27 13:07:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The progress that needs to be made is in the application and system software.
    There is already more in the OpenType spec than can be used with any convenience
    by the software available now.  Here is hoping Adobe CS3 will soon make a change
    in all that.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-27 13:08:14'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "I have a case study recently that I don't think ever was fully addressed
    before.\r\n\r\nI want to first address that I think it is difficult for us type-centric
    people to realize that the world, (and this includes even many skilled and experienced
    graphic designers) don't understand OpenType technology. The habits of replacing
    ligatures from the Glyph Palette menu die hard, especially when many don't know
    there is any other way.\r\n\r\nAnother important factor to consider is until the
    latest versions of Quark, OpenType features weren't even accessible. There are
    massive amounts of publishing companies and print houses all over who have been
    using Quark for years...because of this, OpenType features are a brand new experience.\r\n\r\nAs
    more people become aware of this (and applications begin to fully integrate OpenType
    features) there will be more and more designers switching their libraries over
    from Postscript to OpenType. Which leads to this case study:\r\n\r\nRecently we've
    been working with a freelance designer who has been creating a text heavy document
    (essentially a book) for our company. Over the course of the project we purchased
    the OpenType version of a Postscript font used by the designer. While this seems
    like a simple fix, the Postscript version contained small caps which are defined
    as a seperate font.\r\n\r\nWhen converting to OpenType all style sheets had to
    be altered in order to compensate for the change in Postscript/OpenType formatting.
    \r\n\r\nI assume I'm not going to be the only one this causes problems for when
    people switch over their libraries. I'd be curious to hear from book designers
    on this issue. \r\n\r\nHas anyone actually reached out to \"users\" and asked
    what they thought about these issues?"
  created: '2007-04-06 19:15:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There are always a few growing pains when switching from one format to another.
    This does not mean we should not progress or design everything for the transition
    period. If you make a typeface change, you always have to adjust your style sheets
    anyway. The difference is, once you have established style sheets with an Opentype
    font, you wont have to do it again for another one (unless it does not have small
    caps). If you were changing from one type 1 family to another type 1 family, you
    still would have to adjust the style sheets. I have always been a style sheet
    junky anyway. As long as there are client changes (always), style sheets save
    your butt.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-06 19:35:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It is partly a chicken/egg thing or an \"if you build it, they will come\"
    thing.\r\nApplication developers don't hear many cries for opentype features so
    they leave them out. Users don't know what can be gained from Opentype, so they
    don't ask for opentype features from Adobe or Quark. Adobe and Quark work on the
    squeaky wheel principle so they give Opentype features low priority.\r\nSomewhere,
    there needs to be a real education campaign where graphic designeres/publishers
    are taught the reasons to use opentype as well as how to do it. This is tough
    untill the InD, Quark, et al have the interface and features sensibly included
    with the applications.\r\nIf you build it, they will come.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-06 19:45:05'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Don't forget about Microsoft...one of the biggest culprits. :)
  created: '2007-04-06 20:01:11'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>It is partly a chicken/egg thing or an \u201Cif you build it, they
    will come\u201D thing.\r\nApplication developers don\u2019t hear many cries for
    opentype features so they leave them out. Users don\u2019t know what can be gained
    from Opentype, so they don\u2019t ask for opentype features from Adobe or Quark.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    I really wish is that this sort of thing not be done in type, but in the applications
    program -- which isn't happening.\r\n\r\nTo set nut fractions, we used a small
    routine in TeX for years. It was suppose to get more refinement, but worked well
    enough as is. For a particular circumstance, we'd just change the parameters a
    bit:\r\n\r\n\r\n\\def\\Fraction#1{\\DoFraction#1\\EndDo}\r\n\\def\\DoFraction#1/#2\\EndDo{\r\n
    \   \\setbox0\\vbox{\\hbox{\\XX{#1}}\\hbox{\\XX{#2}}} \r\n    \\vtop{\\vskip-.5\\ht0
    \r\n          \\hbox to \\wd0{\\hfill \\XX{#1}\\hfill}\r\n          \\vskip.9pt\r\n
    \         \\hrule\r\n          \\vskip.9pt\r\n          \\hbox to \\wd0{\\hfill
    \\XX{#2}\\hfill}}}\r\n\r\nWhere \"\\XX\" included a font change.\r\n\r\nOr, to
    set any accent (or character, for that matter) over another, with positioning:\r\n\r\n\\def\\superimpositioN#1{\\leavevmode\r\n
    \   \\setbox0\\hbox{#1}\r\n        \\lower.0em\\hbox to \\wd0{\r\n            \\hss\\hbox{\\char000}\\hss}\r\n
    \   \\llap{#1}}\r\n\r\nwhere #1 was the character taking the accent. \\lower (or
    \\raise) could be used for fine-tuning the vertical positioning; you could also
    put an \\hskip inside the hbox for fine tuning the left-right positioning. Almost
    all of the characters in \"Latin Extended A\" can be made up this way. And if
    you want to make such definitions specific, change the name of the definition
    to be for a particular character. etc.\r\n\r\nIf your applications program is
    robust enough, you don't need to worry about making \"changes\" to the font --
    one reason I find such restrictions in EULA's absurd.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    the code is no harder to write than what you need for OT features, and if it is
    in the application program, there is never a concern about whether or not it will
    be supported."
  created: '2007-04-06 20:56:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'But Adam, surely under your scheme one would need two separate smallcap fonts
    in each weight of each family: one with both the uppercase and lowercase characters
    mapped to smallcap glyphs, and one with only the lowercase characters mapped to
    smallcap glyphs. Otherwise, users will have to carefully select only those letters
    in a word that they want in smallcaps, and would not be able to select capitalised
    words and set only the lowercase in smallcaps, as they can easily do via an OpenType
    control (which is not to say that I think the existing OT UI models are ideal).'
  created: '2007-04-07 04:15:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Don\u2019t forget about Microsoft\u2026one of the biggest culprits.</em>\r\n\r\nLet's
    clarify and focus that compaint: don't forget about Microsoft <b>Office</b>...
    the biggest culprit.\r\n\r\nThere are lots of people doing good work at MS developing
    and supporting OpenType technology, but only a small fraction of that work ends
    up being adopted by the Office group, and the rest remains largely invisible to
    the majority of users."
  created: '2007-04-07 04:19:55'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Let\u2019s clarify and focus that compaint: don\u2019t forget about Microsoft
    Office\u2026 the biggest culprit.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks for the fine tuning. ;)"
  created: '2007-04-07 15:36:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"don\u2019t forget about Microsoft Office\u2026 the biggest culprit.\"\r\n\r\nWord
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-07 18:51:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Don't sound much like a standard to me. \r\n\r\nHope this all works on the
    web.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-03 02:24:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Oh hell, Happy Birthday Anyway, Adam!!!
  created: '2011-05-03 05:26:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Someone remind the higher level  janitors that if unique Unicode values,
    despite the horrible break in Unicode laws, were be assigned to these glyphs,
    the lower level janitors would not be able to screw it all up quite so easily.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-04 10:17:02'
date: '2007-03-22 02:21:30'
title: OpenType smallcaps in a separate font?

---
