---
author:
  name: supermanism
body: "I'm a sophmore in Design School in NYC, and lately, I've just been thinking
  about how much of a waste of money it is.\r\n\r\nI have two studio classes in my
  major (graphic design) that seem like I just go for the attendance.  One class in
  particular, the teacher is often late and we have a quick class discussion about
  the work we put up, then class is over.\r\n\r\nDon't get me wrong, I enjoy being
  in college, but overall, I look at the work I'm doing, and its just almost worthless.
  \ I'm usually towards the top of the class, but most of the things we're doing are
  exercises or small projects.  A lot of non-real world stuff.  Often times we have
  like 4 weeks to do small projects too.\r\n\r\nI know I'm improving, but still.  All
  the ideas are mine, and I've had to learn a lot of the programs' tricks on my own.
  \ I guess its no different from liberal arts programs though.\r\n\r\nSo, I assume
  a lot of other people on the board have been through design school.\r\n\r\nI know
  this wasn't the best written, but maybe someone can reassure me its worth such a
  large amount of money."
comments:
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Short answer? Yes, it is.\r\n\r\nLong answer? Not every school is the right
    fit for every student. Some people will become great designers without having
    set foot in a design school Others would fair better at one school, rather than
    an other. Since you are only in your Sophomore year, perhaps it is not too late
    to transfer to another institution, if you feel like you'd like more intellectual
    challenges and/or student\u2013teacher interaction."
  created: '2007-03-22 09:05:08'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "You really only get better through practice and curiosity. What the school
    offers you is a potential social network and access to a variety of expensive
    programs and other tools. In between the assignments, exploit this access as much
    as you can while you still don't have to buy the software yourself at the prices
    designed for businesses. College is an environment in which to tinker with lots
    of different stuff at low risk. Occasionally, you might even learn something useful
    from one of your teachers, but don't count on it. The social network will be more
    significant.\r\n\r\nThe key: Do whatever you can to get work in the field <em>before
    you graduate.</em> Because when you graduate, you'll be competing with everybody
    who graduated at the same time as you for the same few jobs. And not long <em>after</em>
    you graduate, your diploma will be worth jack diddly zero."
  created: '2007-03-22 09:26:04'
- author:
    name: Marco
  body: "I recognize a lot of what you're saying from my time in Design School(s).
    I too used to look at school assignments in comparison to 'real work': thing is
    that school isn't the real thing. Be glad, because this way you can experiment
    a way thats not always possible in 'the real world'. \r\n\r\nFurthermore, school
    is about discovering and enriching yourself by learning from teachers, other students
    and so on. If you feel there's a gap between your wishes and the curriculum, maybe
    take it up with that one \"good\" teacher. Maybe he can help you with either a
    switch or an extended curriculum?\r\n\r\nIn the end, for me, it was worth the
    while. Too bad i'm not in school any more...\r\nBest of Luck, Marco"
  created: '2007-03-22 10:20:07'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: Somebody once said that education is the lighting of a fire not the filling
    of a pail. As others have said stay in school and make the most of it - you earn
    a degree - it is not given to you. I still remember some of the worst teachers
    I had as they taught me what not to do.
  created: '2007-03-22 10:27:23'
- author:
    name: James Scriven
  body: "I hate Design school. I love Design School. \r\n\r\nDepends on which day
    it is. Im a super senior at the  Academy of Art in SF. I strted out going to class
    first semester and liking the new approach (studied journalism and communication
    at the Univ. of Arizona (getting the college part done) I now take all of my classes
    online because like you, the phyiscal calss was piss poor and a waste of my time.
    I now get to live in my dream town and finish theremainder of my degree online
    whilsst also balancing a heavy freelance schedule  as well as working fulll time
    as a web designer. \r\n\r\nStick with it, it sucks but hopefully if design is
    for you, you will develop a neverending fondness and passion for it that wil compel
    you through the darkest or hardest of times as a student. \r\n\r\nI have Marc
    English as a teaceher (marcenglishdesign.com) and hes the biggest hard ass in
    the world. He's inspired and push me beyond my limits and patience and its been
    great. It takes a few great teachers to help you along the path.  Ive found that
    the harder the cclass the better your work, and the better you become. \r\n\r\nMy
    opinion of school here is lame, It's way to expensive, no one can afford it, but
    if we want to do anything with our lives (for the most part) we have to get a
    degree. So get one. My girlfriend went to school for 8 years paying for it her
    self, shes noow a massage therapist, atheltic trainer, and phyiscal therapist
    with a doctorate. She'll be paying off her school for the next additional 40 or
    so years. Drives us both nuts. \r\n\r\nEnough rambling, time to get back to work.
    \r\n\r\nHang in there, its worth it in the very long run. "
  created: '2007-03-22 14:41:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "A. You are a sophomore and have much to learn. Sophomore projects tend to
    be less real-world. It is like learning the alphabet before you learn to write.\r\n\r\nB.
    You are not a child anymore. Don't wait for things to be handed to you. Take the
    initiative and meet people and learn things which will help fulfill you.\r\n\r\nC.
    Sometimes certain classes or teachers just suck. Again be a grownup and make something
    out of it. Learning initiative is a big part of success in the real work world.
    The spoonfeeding and nurtchering you had earlier is history. Make it happen for
    yourself. After you graduate, there will be no ne but yourself to rely on.\r\n\r\nD.
    It is worth it yes but, like Dan says, if that school does not work for you, go
    elsewhere but don't just sit and wait, go for it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-22 14:58:19'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I'm going through the same issues with my design school, and so are a lot
    of other design students across the country. This came up a few issues back in
    Comm Arts; design schools are teaching curricula invented for the mid-twentieth
    century, but it's 2007. From the conversations I've had with design teachers about
    this I know that they are aware of the problem, but most of them don't know how
    to get past it. They don't understand that the new generation of designers really
    don't need a month or two and fifty revisions of sketches just to design a book
    cover.\r\n\r\nThere are some younger teachers who get it, teachers who came of
    age when Postmodernism was exploding, but it's going to be another decade or two
    until they're deciding how design schools function. Until then, design students
    just have to suck it up, learn what we can while in school, and then move on with
    our lives. The important thing to remember is that there is still a universal
    method of dealing with the problem: everybody needs to get together a couple times
    a month to drink beer, eat pizza, and kvetch. "
  created: '2007-03-22 15:18:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There is a big difference between learning to design a cover and learning
    to explore design problems. This has nothing to do with when you were trained
    or PoMo. Students tend to be impatient and think the first thing they come up
    with is always great. This is the only time in your life you will get to explore
    a design problem from many perspectives, enjoy it while it lasts. Real-world clients
    are going to make your teachers look like pussycats. Design is work. Beer and
    pizza are something else.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-22 15:29:18'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>design schools are teaching curricula invented for the mid-twentieth
    century, but it\u2019s 2007 \u2026 They don\u2019t understand that the new generation
    of designers really don\u2019t need a month or two and fifty revisions of sketches
    just to design a book cover.</em>\r\n\r\nSorry. What the design school is actually
    doing (or at least trying to do) is not trying to teach you to design a book cover,
    or anything else specific. Instead they are trying to teach you to see differently,
    to be creative, and to think in a problem-solving manner. College is not about
    job training. Your career will far outlive any technical specifics that you will
    learn in college\u2026 most of us will be working for several decades. A 21-year
    old graduating in the USA in 2007 will probably have to spend the next 50 years
    working before he'll be able to retire. The creativity will stay with him much
    longer than whatever multimedia gimmick he had to learn for one class or the other."
  created: '2007-03-22 15:31:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Merriam Webster:\r\nMain Entry: soph\xB7o\xB7mor\xB7ic\r\nPronunciation:
    \"s\xE4f-'mOr-ik, -'mor-, -'m\xE4r- also \"sof- or \"s\xE4-f&- or \"so-f&-\r\nFunction:
    adjective\r\nDate: 1813\r\n1 : conceited and overconfident of knowledge but poorly
    informed and immature\r\n2 : of, relating to, or characteristic of a sophomore
    --a sophomoric prank\r\n\r\nAmerican Herritage:\r\nADJECTIVE:\t1. Of or characteristic
    of a sophomore. 2. Exhibiting great immaturity and lack of judgment: sophomoric
    behavior.\r\n\r\nSophomoric reasoning\r\n\r\n        Sophomoric reasoning is rationalizing
    about what one understands poorly. It's often apologetics (starting with a conclusion).
    Though not highly regarded, it's superior to parroting aphorisms.\r\n\r\n        If
    one's understanding is below freshman level, sophomoric reasoning may seem a desirable
    achievement. Nonetheless it shouldn't be regarded as an educational achievement.\r\n\r\n
    \       Among certain groups it masquerades as \"critical thinking\". \r\n\r\nDictionary.com:\r\n2.\tsuggestive
    of or resembling the traditional sophomore; intellectually pretentious, overconfident,
    conceited, etc., but immature: sophomoric questions.\"\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-22 15:45:20'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>What the design school is actually doing (or at least trying to do)
    is not trying to teach you to design a book cover, or anything else specific.
    Instead they are trying to teach you to see differently, to be creative, and to
    think in a problem-solving manner.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, but technology allows us
    to approach problems in very different ways than Gropius and Co. could when they
    developed the basics of contemporary design education. Artists before them didn't
    have things like reams of cheap tracing paper, light tables, graphite pencils
    or synthetic erases, and they worked differently. The world changes, people think
    differently, and have new options available to think with. That's why design education
    needs a swift kick in the butt."
  created: '2007-03-22 15:59:29'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "It's good to learn them too, though.  When I was in design school in NYC,
    the only \"drafting\" we did was on a table, with a T-square, a wonderful mechanical
    pencil with big leads, and a funky sharpener.\r\n\r\nArchitecture schools gloss
    over that now, and presume everyone knows AutoCAD and will take rough sketches
    straight to a computer, which is fine, except that doing it the old way sure gives
    you an advantage in thinking about how things actually go together.\r\n\r\nQuick
    example: a surveyor friend of mine was laying out some roads in a new subdivision
    when the developer's plans changed and an extra entry from an existing road was
    drawn in by someone back in the office on a computer.  \r\n\r\nNow, while it was
    easy enough to put the nice radially curved bit of roadway in on the computer
    to link the two, once they tried to do it out in the field, it was a joke: the
    roadbed only ran 20 feet and the curve had a 4-mile radius.  Needless to say,
    they made it straight in the field.  :-)\r\n\r\nIf the designer had learned on
    paper, it would have never happened.....\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-22 16:10:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "JPad,\r\nIt is not about technique, nor technology nor, lead pencils, it
    is about thinking. A slick technique can get in the way of open thought. Whatever
    technique or tool you learn now will be obsolete in a few years and you will have
    to pick up the new ones on the fly. You have a few short years to excersize your
    brain and uncover some problemsolving ability before you are thrown into the cruel
    cold world. Learn to use your mind now, the technique is the easy part--way easier
    than what it was a few years back. Don't lock yourself into slick. Slick hides
    fundamental failings. Learn to see first. That will never go out of style. Yes,
    it is much harder than just cranking out slick software tricks.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-22 16:35:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "School is not a place where you go get an injection of knowledge or a fast-food
    pickup window. Do the work, crack a sweat, learn something. Cliffnotes leaves
    stuff out.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-22 16:41:16'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: Find a better school - really. One that fits what you want to do. If it feels
    like a waste of money then it's because it is.
  created: '2007-03-22 16:42:34'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "I thought the same way most of the time I was in school, and it wasn't until
    I was out and using that \"little\" knowledge in real world situations. \r\n\r\nHonestly,
    you'll NEED the degree to get a decent career, but I'm not surprised you don't
    feel as if you're EARNING it. <strong>Don't be afraid to ask for a challenged.</strong>
    Approach your professor and demand a project that's rooted in real world applications.
    Trust me, it's better to make the mistakes in college than suffer them when the
    client/art director is breathing down your neck. Join design oriented clubs, like
    a literary magazine. Scourer the campus for freelance jobs.\r\n\r\nIf you aren't
    getting the education in class, you'll have to get it somewhere else. Even more
    so, if you quit school.\r\n\r\nP.S. If you can, <strong>get into an Internship.</strong>
    I missed this opportunity and  I've kicked myself ever since. "
  created: '2007-03-22 17:12:09'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Chris, I was counting on you to add that it might be more than the design
    schools that need a swift kick in the butt!
  created: '2007-03-22 19:38:28'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Others have already said it above, but I too think school is worth finishing.
    It's a <strong>luxury</strong> to be able to approach a problem the way it's done
    in school, and you will miss that once you've graduated and have a \"real world\"
    job.\r\n\r\nAnd as others have said, technology is no replacement for learning
    how to think like a designer, or being able to express an idea with pencil and
    paper. Technology is just a tool we use to express an idea in the most appropriate
    way, but there has to be an idea there to begin with. That's where school comes
    in: ideally it will show you how to think AND how to use the tools of the trade...
    But like many other things, <strong>what you get out of it depends on what you
    put into it.</strong> Take advantage of your school's library, start a student
    magazine with like-minded classmates, participate in class, question your thinking
    when you are working on an assignment, question your professors -- if they are
    good, they will be more than happy for your active participation and curiosity.
    Don't expect everything to be handed to you."
  created: '2007-03-22 21:10:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/jpm_sticker_kickbutt_b_5390.jpg]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-22 21:51:13'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Make a poster with Wolfgang Weingart's AIGA 2002 report and put it up for
    the class discussion.
  created: '2007-03-23 00:22:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>It\u2019s a luxury to be able to approach a problem the way it\u2019s
    done in school, and you will miss that once you\u2019ve graduated and have a \u201Creal
    world\u201D job.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf that's the case I'll be ditching design for
    law school."
  created: '2007-03-23 05:22:32'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "<em>Learn to see first. </em> You da bomb Dezcom!\r\n\r\nsupermanism - push
    those exercises and small projects to a point where you can demonstrate a clear
    understanding of the techniques - and then push them further into your own <em>style</em>.
    In short - develope your own voice in design. Don't just do the exerices - speak
    them right back at the prof through your own designs.\r\n\r\nKick it!!\r\n\r\nAnd
    if you have time on your hands, I suggest you go seek out those 'design professionals'
    in NYC who are laying it down and hang out in their offices/studios. Bring them
    a bottle of single malt - that'll get you off on a good foot :)\r\n\r\nAbove all
    - learn humilty and respect. Don't take sh*t from anyone - and don't blindly believe
    in anyone either. Just because someone has a 'name' - that don't mean sh*t. Question
    what they're saying and <em>how</em> they're saying it!\r\n\r\nPut those lessons
    to good use and develope a solid foundation.\r\n\r\nI'm beginning to ramble...\r\n\r\n__________\r\nHiro\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-23 05:44:08'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: jpad, when I was in school a lot of people used to complain that our university's
    approach was too theoretical -- which was true, but on the other hand we learned
    how to think, and we had time to work on design problems, make mistakes, see what
    our classmates came up with, pick our professors' brains -- all the stuff that
    Marco, Dezcom, Dan <em>et al</em> were talking about above. <em>That's</em> what
    I mean by luxury. You won't get that at work. Also, once you hit the street, you
    don't always have a chance at design work (as opposed to production work). Or,
    if you get design work, you have to arrive at compromise solutions. Believe me,
    at those times you will appreciate having gone to school.
  created: '2007-03-23 23:34:11'
- body: "\r\nThe agony of being a student will never outweigh the agony of job-hunting
    without a degree.  I know this is little comfort now, but it's better to suffer
    now than to starve later. "
  created: '2007-03-24 01:08:05'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Carl \u2013 lots of good advice here. But who is your student/class rep?
    And have you made your views known to them? Lecturers showing up late to class
    is something you have every right to complain about \u2013 but your school administration
    won't fix a problem that they don't know exists...\r\n\r\nI was quite ambivalent
    about the degree course I took; so much so that I took a year's leave of study
    in the middle of it. When I went back I had a handle on some of the real-world
    stuff and it helped.\r\n\r\nWhile I'd be the first to argue that there simply
    isn't enough industrial-strength software tuition on the majority of today's design
    education programmes (which incidentally is why I also argue for internships and
    apprenticeships), the computer screen is a rotten place to make design decisions
    \u2013 and that's what the class discussions and reflexive thinking and critiques
    are for.\r\n\r\nI notice that this thread has (so far) no input from Satya or
    any of the other students at <a href=\"http://www.nid.edu/\">NID</a>. Guess they're
    all too busy working..."
  created: '2007-03-24 01:21:15'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Carl and James, from the few years I have been out of school (3) I have learned
    that the most valuable asset a designer can have is the hability to envision.
    Envisioning implies understanding a problem, thinking a creative (original and
    effective) way to solve it and planning it's realization.\r\n\r\nThis means that
    it is more important to know what has to be done than being able to do it (specially
    if you don't know what to do). The highest design positions are focused on envisioning
    and directing the creative work of others. Those with only the ability to make
    the tricks get to be production artists.\r\n\r\nDesign education will try to teach
    you how to envision but also will give you other valuable tools such as a title,
    communication theory, semiotics, history classes, marketing understanding, technical
    training, social networking, production experience and a program to grow by an
    adequate path (not in a chaothic and crippled way).\r\n\r\nDon't expect fast outcome,
    take the time needed to train you for a lifelong career. I passed the first year
    of design school drawing models, taking art history courses, doing color charts,
    line grids and abstract excercises. It was until the second year that we were
    able to tackle some \"real life\" design projects and made corporate identity
    until the last semester (out of 8). Otherwise it's like entering the karate class
    and wanting to do the ninja stuff on the first month.\r\n\r\nIf you can afford
    it I would recommend design school, if not I would recommend trying to follow
    the program by your own. As said above if your current school doesn't fulfill
    you change it, you are grown up.\r\n\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2007-03-24 06:15:29'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Ironically, I found this article linked from an Industrial Design site my
    brother turned me onto that speaks to this issue in a unique way . . .<a href=\"http://www.adaptivepath.com/blog/2007/03/06/design-schools-please-start-teaching-design-again\"
    target=\"_new\"> Article Here</a>\r\n\r\nStuart :D\r\n\r\nPS: A satisfied graduate
    of the Art Institute of Ft. Lauderdale with my AS in Visual Communications"
  created: '2007-03-24 14:27:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The question of quality of the instruction is an important issue. And I cannot
    address the question of the quality of design schools in general, nor of course
    of 'supermanism's school in particular. \r\n\r\nHowever, as a former college teacher
    I can speak to the other half of the equation: student's role in his or her own
    education. \r\n\r\nThe students I enjoyed most were those who had been out in
    the world of work and returned for further education. They had these characteristics:\r\n\r\n1.
    They knew why they were studying. They didn't just drift into studies for lack
    of another option, but had a goal. \r\n\r\n2. They were willing to challenge the
    teachers, including me. When I say challenge, I mean regularly ask thoughtful
    questions, including asking what is the benefit of studying what you are studying.
    I don't mean to do this in an angry or impertinent way, but rather in expectation
    that there is an answer, and you want to learn it. \r\n\r\n3. They know that the
    teachers are working for them. They are paying the bill, and they seek out instruction.
    If one teacher is not the best in something they want to learn, they find another.
    If that person is not in their school, they will go to a person in another place--school
    or private sector--for supplement, or change schools.\r\n\r\nIn sum returning
    students tend not to whine about their education, but to seek out excellence in
    instruction or go elsewhere. This quality of initiative, rather than passivity,
    is one of the best things a student can have to get the most out of school.   "
  created: '2007-03-24 17:11:50'
- author:
    name: sayerhs
    picture: 112341
  body: "im a first year student of graphic design(undergrad) at NID(yay ben, the
    nidian has arrived!).  Although, a lot of times i do feel like im not doing much,
    i actually am. NID is the only place ill ever get to freak out on stuff without
    having to worry about clients and deadlines and stuff. And its the only place
    where i can have access to the amount of resources that i have at my disposal
    now.\r\nIf you feel your faculty is inadequate or that the course isnt happening
    in the way it needs to, raise the isssue with the admin or whoever is incharge.
    Also, you need to take self-initiative if you want to do challenging work. Its
    easy to finish any assignment nowadays by just sitting on the comp. Google and
    the neccessary software take care of that. I may be a graphic design student,
    but i so wish that my skills were as good as my batchmates in animation. \r\nIn
    the end, the \"real world\" is going to be flooded with designers. Where you stand
    in relation to them matters. And that is solely upto you.\r\n\r\nShreyas"
  created: '2007-03-24 18:11:34'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "<em>Short answer - yes? </em> YES\r\nYou can learn a lot from design school
    - and that is good news, considering there aren't any apprenticeship programs
    up and about anymore... Learning from a master or masters -- is an experience
    for real world work - and one not offered by University. \r\n\r\nHowever, what
    is available to you, even at NY School of Design -- is the networking and contacts
    you are making. Those will prove invaluable to you in your future endeavors. A
    professor who takes a shine to your work can help you into your first entry level
    position. A classmate who does well, may consider recommending you at a future
    date for a position in a great company.\r\n\r\nYou are only this age once in your
    life. Make the most of it. Learn, enjoy -- and then make lots of money (good investments)
    so that when you look back you can see it was all worth it.\r\n\r\nHave a great
    life."
  created: '2007-03-24 22:58:51'
- author:
    name: kostal
    picture: 111214
  body: "Yes, it is. I haven't had tons of success as a designer (I'm a recent grad)
    but I believe the whole experience bettered me. Among other things it definitely
    helped me understand creativity and the difference between something working and
    liking the way something looks. \r\n\r\nI want to echo that if you can start networking
    now DO IT. If you can get freelance jobs or an internship DO IT. If you can challenge
    your teacher, your peers and yourself DO IT. \r\n\r\nWait, was that just a Nike
    campaign?"
  created: '2007-03-25 04:35:04'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "i guess you probably won't know the real answer to that question for years.
    but by then, i'm betting the answer will most likely be \"yes,\" although it may
    not seem like it right now.\r\ni can only say that just about every experience
    has been informative, and it sometimes takes a distance to see just what the lesson
    was.\r\nwhen i look back to my education, there were many times i felt like i
    was spinning my wheels, but if someone offered to turn back the clock and take
    the experience away, i'd tell them to take a hike."
  created: '2007-03-25 05:32:44'
- author:
    name: cooper design
    picture: 111844
  body: "Our formal education is only half of our education. When at last you can
    readily identify lachrymal terminals and you subsequently take a postion inside
    an organization, you will shortly learn that handling yourself at meetings, building
    alliances, gossiping, strategic work-avoidance, blame-shifting, credit-stealing
    and showboating will serve your career as much as, if not more than, any carefully
    cultivated individual talent. These are skills too, and if you don't get good
    at deploying them with a deft politcal touch you will certainly lose your job
    to somebody who is. Deserving's got nothing to do with it. And that's not exactly
    a motto for higher education.\r\n\r\nDesign is very much a learn-as-you-go craft.
    But it's tough to even get started without connections and credentials. Every
    prospective employer/client you will ever have will want to minimize all risk
    to thier bank account and reputation, and recommendations and credentials are
    a cool hand on their fevered brow. You can be a genius or you can be a mile wide
    and an inch deep, but you will certainly out-compete those poor bastards who have
    nothing but their talent to recommend them. In the early stages, the statistical
    symbols of accomplishment\u2014degrees, awards, association memberships, testimonials\u2014are
    an indestructible advantage. In the later stages they serve as evidence of meritorious
    achievement. Either way, you have to have them or nobody knows what to make of
    you.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-25 07:58:48'
- author:
    name: Silvermule
    picture: 111376
  body: "Carl, it is entirely up to  you to set the limits of what you are capable
    when you are in Design School. If you feel that the classes you attend are not
    challenging enough, start your own projects; create a magazine, learn how to use
    a press and make posters, start a collective, design a typeface, learn a new skill,
    create something that will be of use once you leave school. If a professor gives
    you an assignment to design a logo, go ahead do the entire brand. \r\nGet the
    idea?\r\nLook, there will always be issues with the institution you attend, and
    its curricula; it is also up to you how to address those issues. Maybe there is
    an awareness campaign that needs to be done. Look at everything as an opportunity
    for you to shine. Believe it or not you are being watched closely by your peers
    and professors. They are your first network in your career, so go ahead and impress
    the hell out of them.\r\nBest\r\nAlejandro Chavetta\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-25 19:53:11'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "while connections, contacts and networking are important (and will remain
    important the rest of your career), it's kinda sad to hear that that's what so
    many design students are citing as the highlight of their education.\r\ni could
    get very preachy here, but i won't. preachy about students, about instructors,
    about the field in general, and preachy about the trend toward expectations of
    immediate payoffs. believe me, i could preach.\r\ninstead, i'll say that education
    (even mediocre education, i hope) is a process of sowing seeds. some fruit may
    come early, but the bulk of it is later in the season. \r\ni'm myself a professor
    of graphic design. one of the coolest things i can think of is when a former student
    calls back a year, two, three later to tell me of the epiphany.\r\nall you kids
    out there -- stay in school."
  created: '2007-03-25 20:23:13'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "Jackie's advice is excellent no matter what your degree course.  There is
    no underestimating the value of networking.  Who you know is often as important
    as what you know.  Look at the career of Julius Shulman.  \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-25 22:30:55'
date: '2007-03-22 07:05:58'
title: Is Design School worth it?

---
