---
author:
  name: ocular
  picture: 111044
body: "Hi everyone!\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve always used mainly Macs--never had a PC at home--but
  recently I\u2019ve been thinking about switching to a PC and to Windows (mainly
  because the hardware is so much cheaper and freely combinable and the support is
  easier to get).\r\n\r\nSo I\u2019d like to ask this: which platform is really better
  for a typophile? I know that graphic designers have traditionally used Macs, but
  the focus there tends to be in images and color, not typography.\r\n\r\nI do plan
  to do some photo scanning and image editing, but that\u2019s basically as a hobby,
  at least for now. My planned focus is in book composition with InDesign and, as
  an auxiliary to this, font editing with FontLab Studio (so I\u2019m neither a real
  type designer nor a font production kind of guy). I might also use Illustrator e.g.
  to draw graphs from imported data. (You can\u2019t do that in FL--but are there
  better programs for this?).\r\n\r\nOne aspect of typography is text display on screen.
  Windows has ClearType, but I have the impression that it doesn\u2019t affect the
  way InDesign and other Adobe apps display text. Am I right?\r\n\r\nThere seem to
  be differences in OS-level OpenType support as well, but how much does that really
  matter for InDesign/Illustrator composition?\r\n\r\nAlso, from my experience with
  Windows XP it seems that the look of that OS is more freely customizable (I dislike
  the unnecessarily complicated look of Tiger, where everything is transparent and
  shaded). If I remember correctly, you can change the font, and most importantly
  the font size, of menus etc. It seems stupid that you can\u2019t use the full resolution
  of your display (OK, my current one is quite bad anyway) because you\u2019d then
  be unable to read any text and symbols outside the document/image window itself.\r\n\r\nOf
  course, the comparison might be a little difficult or unfair at the moment because
  Mac OS X Leopard hasn\u2019t been released yet; on the Windows side, I\u2019d presumably
  use Vista (which I haven\u2019t even seen \u201Clive\u201D yet).\r\n\r\n(I also
  know that doing serious font production, you\u2019d have to use both platforms,
  if only for testing. But as I said, that is not really my field.)\r\n\r\nI may be
  a little naive here, but <strong>I don\u2019t want to start another platform war.</strong>
  I would just like to hear rational arguments for and against each platform. As you
  can probably tell form the above, I\u2019m not very tech-savvy myself, and I would
  therefore appreciate your insights.\r\n\r\nI must also say that the switch doesn\u2019t
  seem quite as real an option for me now as it did when I first thought about starting
  this thread. One reason is the difficulty of cross-platform software switches/upgrades.
  (FontLab for one said they could only offer me a 30% second-copy discount. I haven\u2019t
  asked Adobe yet.) Another reason is simple familiarity; and then there is the virus
  situation, of course, as I\u2019ve known all along \u2026 But my hardware (and thus
  platform) situation is basically still open--and I thought this would be a fun thread
  to start anyway, in an open-minded spirit!\r\n\r\nOlli\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Hi Olli\r\n\r\nBefore we get into this \u2013 did you try posting the phrase
    'platform war' or 'platform rivalry' into the Typophile search engine? I'm pretty
    sure there have already been some exhaustive answers provided on this topic. Anyone
    else?"
  created: '2007-03-25 12:23:25'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "I did do some quick searches. The phrases you mention return no results,
    as far as I can see. (Hmm ... \"rivalry\" does sound more positive than \"war\".)
    Even searching for \"platform\" alone, I can't seem to find anything directly
    relevant.\r\n\r\nADD: I did find <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/1697\">this
    thread</a> about generating different font formats and <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/4873\">this
    very old one</a> about Mac OS X. I would of course appreciate any pointers elsewhere!\r\n\r\nOlli"
  created: '2007-03-25 13:02:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The typophile search seems to be down. Use Google instead, starting with
    typophile: as the first entry. \r\n\r\nHere is one thread I found that way: http://typophile.com/node/8620\r\n\r\nedit:
    for importing paper-drawn or printed glyphs for further work, do you know about
    ScanFont? "
  created: '2007-03-25 13:58:01'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "You seem to be in my line of work -- book composition, with the need to do
    font work in FontLab, and do image work in Photoshop. We're even moving to InDesign.\r\n\r\nAs
    to platforms, what I would suggest is to determine which platform is most apt
    to maintain support for programs you need, unless you want to add programing work
    to font work. For the basic programs this isn't an issue, it is additional programming
    you might need. An example might be High Dynamic Range Compression as a plug-in
    for Photoshop (something better than the little routine you get in Photoshop CS2
    by going up to 32 bit & then back down to 16 bit).\r\n\r\nBy in large, most software
    is now written for Windows, and adapted for the Mac, for the simple reason that
    that the PC market is bigger.\r\n\r\nToo, most authors write on a PC -- same reason.
    On the other side of the coin, most graphic designers work on Macintosh, so if
    you wanted to share files -- at least before InDesign & OpenType -- that meant
    \ a Mac. Of course, sometimes it's nice to say \"sorry, we can't share files.\"\r\n\r\nI've
    been doing this kind of work since 1980, and over the long haul, find these more
    important matters in book composition than the things you mention.\r\n\r\nOne
    note: I don't think you can judge type on the screen. Printing it out on a laser
    printer is the  minimal step, and you don't really <cite>know</cite> what it looks
    like until the printed book comes in. If the publisher doesn't provide a complimentary
    copy, see of they'll sell you one at a discount. This will better help you judge
    word spacing, and any changes you make to a font. \r\n\r\nAlso, if you're preparing
    the art, you better learn the papers the books will be printed on, and determine
    the dotgain for both particular paper(s) and printer(s). If that's too much, at
    least the different kinds of papers, & a few grades -- with uncoated paper, offwhite
    & white, various grades of matt coated stocks, & glossy coated. But always best
    to work with the actual sheet being used."
  created: '2007-03-25 14:10:44'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "William, thanks for the thread you pointed out! I knew there must be something
    like that on Typophile. There wasn't much tech info though.\r\n\r\n<cite>One note:
    I don\u2019t think you can judge type on the screen.</cite>\r\n\r\nCharles, I
    didn't mean to imply you could. But it still helps if you can easily read the
    type on screen (without zooming in) and if the look is as close to the real thing
    as possible.\r\n\r\nThe paper does, of course, affect even the look of type. (Images,
    as I said, are not really my strong point anyway.)\r\n\r\nOlli"
  created: '2007-03-25 14:42:22'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Since the advent of Windows 2000 Professional, the question of which platform
    is better has been pretty much moot, despite heated rhetoric to the contrary on
    either side of the debate.\r\n\r\nOn the plus side for Windows: cheaper hardware
    and more keyboard shortcuts. If you're worried about security, download and install
    Firefox, and make it your default browser."
  created: '2007-03-25 14:50:44'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "OK, the google search that William suggested yielded two further relevant
    threads (<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/30682\">1</a> and <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/16477\">2</a>).
    I'll take a closer look at those.\r\n\r\nSorry if my starting a new thread was
    a little hasty!"
  created: '2007-03-25 15:15:23'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "A production system should be a Mac running OS X, as it has higher up-time
    than any Windows system. Further Apple builds both their hardware and software
    so that it simply works, that can not be said for any bamboo Windows box. So when
    you buy a cheap box you put yourself at a higher risk of having downtime \u2013
    so ask yourself if it's worth it?"
  created: '2007-03-25 16:58:08'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "You can customize OS X. My windows are all a nice and earthy woodgrain. Apple
    just makes things harder to break than Microsoft.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ishot-3_5659.png]"
  created: '2007-03-25 16:59:26'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Given the total cost of the set-up, CPU, monitor, scanner, OS, Adobe CS,
    FontLab Studio, fonts etc., the difference between an Apple CPU and a Windows
    based PC is probably minimal, maybe 5 or 10%? Beyond that you''re using the equipment
    professionaly, so increasing your rates by .5% will likely cover the more expensive
    option in less than a year. So why not splurge on a top end Mac (and use Parallels/bootcamp
    for FontLab and other better-on-Windows software) or maybe just buy one of each
    and a switchbox.      '
  created: '2007-03-25 17:00:47'
- author:
    name: schriftgestalt
    picture: 110805
  body: "The two most important reasons to work with a Mac: You do not need to even
    think about viruses and malware. Second: you can simply clone your harddisk for
    backup (using SuperDuper or Disk Utility . if somthing goes wrong you simply plug
    your backup disk to any other Mac and continue you work.\r\n\r\n@oldnick:\r\nwhere
    do you find more shortcuts on Win. Since I have the option key to type letters
    (how do you type \"guillemos\" (\xBB\xAB) on Windows???)\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\nwww.reets.de\r\nwww.schriftgestaltung.de"
  created: '2007-03-25 17:16:48'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "<cite>when you buy a cheap box you put yourself at a higher risk of having
    downtime</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, I'm probably gonna have to take my G5 PowerMac to
    an Apple service place for a checkup because of the kernel panics I've had lately
    (I had an accident with static electricity that my insurance might cover).\r\n\r\nBut
    more generally, I've come to the point where the \"closed\" nature of Apple support/service
    seems to outweigh any inherent reliability that Macs might have (this may hold
    especially for Finland, where Macs don't seem to be very popular).\r\n\r\nAs for
    Si's arguments about money: that might be true in the long haul, but I'm just
    trying to get started (if I'm indeed gonna freelance in the 1st place)."
  created: '2007-03-25 17:21:15'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: If you are familiar with OS X, take into account the time it will take to
    learn a new OS and the troubleshooting time when things inevitably go wrong. I
    doubt you'll find the savings of a few hundred dollars on hardware to be worth
    it.
  created: '2007-03-25 18:27:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You are going to find a split of opinion on platform pretty much by who uses
    what. There is not enough difference in the uses you explain to really matter
    much. There are crossplatform versions of the Adobe Suite, FontLab, and the Microsoft
    Office suite so sharing files is not a problem. You will find service issues on
    both sides. These are more a case of who you deal with directly, not which platform.
    Maybe Si has it right with the \"both on one\" scheme he described? The amount
    of money for truly comparable systems is not enough to be an issue. Higher monitor
    resolution reduces pixel size on both platforms so that is a wash. Adjust your
    interface preferences to increase typesize as needed. It is not that tough.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-25 18:45:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "They're both junk.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-25 21:13:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">They\u2019re both junk.\r\n\r\nSo what platform would you suggest for a
    professional book designer who dabbles in type design? Amiga? ;-)\r\n\r\nThe other
    consideration is do clients visit your office? If they do then expensive equipment
    - high-end mac, high-end printer, huge screen, to go with your top-end mobile
    phone, black Audi A6, etc., will help you justify higher fees. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: jac
      picture: 109567
    body: "<cite>The other consideration is do clients visit your office? If they
      do then expensive equipment - high-end mac, high-end printer, huge screen, to
      go with your top-end mobile phone, black Audi A6, etc., will help you justify
      higher fees.</cite>\r\n\r\nI can never tell if this is offered in jest.\r\n\r\nJac\r\n<em>\"pronounced
      by saying 'Jake' without conjuring imagery of lumberjacks or mans best friend.\"</em>"
    created: '2007-03-27 23:09:43'
  created: '2007-03-25 21:58:22'
- author:
    name: "\u2022Prakash Nair"
    picture: 111459
  body: "Agreed with the \"expense\" comment from Simon. Also seems that other designers/some
    clients listen a little longer to people with Macs. However, I use a PC at home
    and quite honestly, if you're a good designer you can do either without any problems.
    Softwares are common on both. PC's have a bigger advantage in the hardware for
    sure. As far as trojans/virus..only people who go to the questionable sites get
    em. I have been virus free for over 6 yrs!...and going....\r\n\r\n-I might get
    a MacBook soon just because of the cool factor. That, and I'm getting too old
    for playing games."
  created: '2007-03-25 22:19:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I would suggest using either platform, but always keeping in mind that they're
    both junk, that what could have been was not allowed to. Not to feel down, but
    to increase the chances of a better future. If instead you celebrate mediocrity
    (by focusing on which platform is \"better\") you reward the people who treat
    us like dirt.\r\n\r\n> just because of the cool factor.\r\n\r\nDonate the $1000
    difference to a good cause instead.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-25 22:30:40'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>how do you type \u201Cguillemos\u201D (\xBB\xAB) on Windows???)</em>\r\n\r\n\xAD\xBBALT+0171
    and \xABALT+0187 (numbers on the numeric keypad); however, I wasn't talking about
    shortcuts to characters, but to operations (a couple of keystrokes vs. of several
    levels of mouse-clicks)."
  created: '2007-03-26 00:21:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Note that the correct spelling is guillemet(s).\r\nThe other one is a bird.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-26 02:51:48'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "<cite>- high-end mac, high-end printer, huge screen, to go with your top-end
    mobile phone, black Audi A6, etc.,</cite>\r\n\r\nSi, if you were to visit my place,
    you'd realize that instead of a joke, this is more like a real reason <em>not</em>
    to have a mac ;)\r\n\r\n<cite>They\u2019re both junk.</cite>\r\n\r\nHrant, that
    was sort of my starting point--which got me thinking, \"Why pay more for the prettily
    packaged junk?\"\r\n\r\nWell, in keeping with Stephen's point, I guess I'm gonna
    stick to my Mac for now (unless the repair is going to be very expensive). Thanks
    everyone!\r\n\r\nOlli"
  created: '2007-03-26 07:26:49'
- author:
    name: webee
    picture: 112336
  body: What can i say, i worked on both platforms, and i must say MAC RULES, I don't
    know much about type, but for design it's much better then WINDOWS. Why? because
    windows gives so much errors and u always have to reinstall. And we don't have
    to talk about viruses, for MAC they almost not exist, for windows ..........
  created: '2007-03-26 15:29:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A poignant reminder of why Olli used that bold tag in his original post...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-26 16:52:10'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "I work mainly with Mac, and sometimes, like yesterday, when I have to work
    with Windows, I get rather irritated and confused with the different layout and
    shortcuts. Mind you, I'd guess that it depends on what you're used to.\r\nA \"PC
    Agency\" I freelance for ask me sometimes to check photos, files and cds they
    can't open themselves. I rarely if ever have problems with file formats in Mac.
    Also I find that for example sending files to a ftp server doesn't affect my work,
    but the resident designer of the \"PC Agency\" always complains it slowing her
    pc down. As far as I know, our computers are about the same in age, capacity and
    speed."
  created: '2007-03-28 07:41:13'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: The type designer/developer no longer has to make these choices. All of our
    people will be using macs with windows installed by year's end. We of course,
    cannot WAIT for the first intel core quatro. With the time we save by not arguing
    about it, we can also afford to buy e-books so we can read up on the subject.:)
  created: '2007-03-28 13:37:24'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Sounds like you're leaning toward Windows due to lower price of the hardware.\r\n\r\nIf
    you are a serious graphic professional, then you need serious hardware, and, at
    that point, there really isn't much (if any) of a price difference between Macs
    and most name-brand PCs.* So, do carefully compare them both feature-for-feature.\r\n\r\nEspecially
    with laptops. Apple laptops are actually surprisingly affordable when you take
    into account the full set of features.\r\n\r\nThe other major advantage to Macs
    right now is that ease in which you can run multiple OSes at the same time. I
    have XP running seemlessly on top of OSX and you can toss linux on there as well.
    That's great for anyone that needs to test their product on multiple platforms.\r\n\r\n\"I
    would just like to hear rational arguments for and against each platform.\"\r\n\r\nI
    use both Windows and OSX daily. Both are fine. And, really, it's a matter of personal
    choice for most folks.\r\n\r\n* = at least, not in the US. Admittedly, it seems
    as if some other countries get a bit screwed on Apple's pricing system overseas.
    In that case, if the price is right, just go with a Windows PC.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-28 14:50:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> there really isn\u2019t much (if any) of a price difference between Macs
    and most name-brand PCs.\r\n\r\nThere is a difference, but it's not big. On the
    other hand (at least at the time that I was buying my current system) the Intel-based
    Mac <cite>(laptops)</cite> were exorbitant.\r\n\r\n> ease in which you can run
    multiple OSes\r\n\r\nIf it really is easy, that's definitely a plus (assuming
    you need that).\r\nReminds me of the Amiga.  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-28 15:05:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...that\u2019s definitely a plus (assuming you need that).\"\r\n\r\nIt
    would come in handy when testing fonts on both platforms. Web designers checking
    pages on muliple browser and platform combinations would find this a good way
    to go as well.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-28 15:28:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "On the other hand, from what I can tell with the money you save on not getting
    an Intel-based Mac (and a stand-alone copy of the Windows OS) you can buy a whole
    separate Windows machine! :-/  Sure that increases the file-transfer overhead
    slightly, but it still seems more sensical.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-28 17:00:44'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Two boxes? Two pieces of hardware to troubleshoot? Two footprints? Two displays
    or (a switch box)? \r\n\r\nYou don't save <em>that</em> much money. I think David's
    got the right idea for offices who don't use Windows as their main working environment."
  created: '2007-03-28 17:08:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yeah, one a desktop the other a laptop.  :-)\r\nCertainly in many cases it's
    not worth the headache.\r\nIn many other cases though the physical separation
    is useful.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-28 17:22:38'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "You have to admit that this is pretty cool (not to mention useful):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/parallels_6676.jpg]\r\n\r\n(Parallels
    on my MacBook Pro running XP in coherence mode. Sorry about the giant image.)"
  created: '2007-03-28 17:38:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mark,\r\nTell us about the \"Satelite of Love\" thing :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-28 17:46:53'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: It seems that Mark is an <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mystery_Science_Theater_3000">MST3K</a>
    fan. Makes sense, being that he is a Minnesotan and a lover of fine humor.
  created: '2007-03-28 18:17:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Mark, it's way cool. I know because I used to do that sort\r\nof thing (with
    <cite>three</cite> OSes) on my Amiga in the early 90s.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-28 18:18:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Stewf, thanks. I was not familiar with the show.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-28 18:56:13'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Yes, the reference is to MST3K, which in turn was a reference to a Lou Reed
    song. I was a big fan of the show and almost got some work out of them. It didn't
    work out, but I did get a tour of the facilities and got to meet most of the people
    who worked on the show, which was way cool, too.\r\n\r\nI really like this Parallels
    coherence thing. The big problem with running two OS's at a time is that their
    interfaces--mainly their desktops--get in each other's way. In coherence mode,
    the Windows desktop disappears giving the illusion that Windows apps are running
    on the Mac desktop. And it's not just an illusion--you can drag-and-drop stuff
    between the two OS's windows. "
  created: '2007-03-28 19:10:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sounds like the way to go Mark!\r\nThanks for the info!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-28 19:21:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you can drag-and-drop stuff between the two OS\u2019s windows.\r\n\r\nThat
    is pretty nice.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-28 21:55:40'
- author:
    name: paull
  body: "re: mac v. pc cost debate. every reasonable comparison i have ever seen says
    pretty much the same thing. currently, equivalent macs and pcs cost about the
    same. the notion that pcs are cheaper, in any significant way, is a myth. i've
    found this to be the case from pundits on both sides of the equation.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.macworld.com/2006/08/opinion/dellmacprofollowup/index.php\r\n\r\n:p"
  created: '2007-03-28 23:16:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> equivalent macs and pcs cost about the same.\r\n\r\nBut the PC has a bottom
    end that the Mac does not.\r\nFor something like a mere testing platform this
    is a factor.\r\nIn fact good testing relies heavily on NOT using advanced systems.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-29 00:04:46'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "One thing I like about PC's is that I choose seperate pieces of hardware
    myself, and let someone (or do it myself) put it together. This way I always have
    the video card I want, for example. Or soundcard, etc.\r\nSo, when buying a PC,
    you can even put together a 'budget-system', or a monster machine. Whatever you
    want. Whatever your wallet allows.\r\nAs far as I know, you can only choose from
    a limited amount of different pieces of hardware, when ordering an iMac for example.\r\n\r\nThen
    again, OSX is in my opinion nicer OS to work with, easier to use, nicer-looking
    and more secure. But in the long run, I don't really mind. I can work on both,
    can do the same things on both. I don't really like one over the other."
  created: '2007-03-29 01:14:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" I think David\u2019s got the right idea for offices who don\u2019t use
    Windows as their main working environment\"\r\n\r\nMild correction, main \"creative\"
    platform. I \"work\" just as mainly in Windows as I do on the Mac these days (hint,
    hint). But I very much like to pick and choose. I think best on the Mac (no one's
    watching;), and read best in Windows (someone's thinking about type there!), e.g.
    I need to read a pdf without muckin' about, Mac. I need to have virtual meeting,
    windows. The other big difference to me is that I can confidently see pulling
    into the next upgrade station without a care in the world on either platform...and
    to me, that is priceless! "
  created: '2007-03-29 12:59:54'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> read best in Windows (someone\u2019s thinking about type there!\r\n\r\nTotally.
    Can't you talk to someone at Apple with all your clout?"
  created: '2007-03-29 19:00:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Last Friday there was an Apple technology seminar at ArtCenter. I starting
    asking about type, as nicely as I could. I think he knew what type was. But when
    I moved to things like grayscaling and E-Ink I could see the vapor coming out
    his ears. But hey they gave me a shiny keychain!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-29 19:11:15'
- author:
    name: paull
  body: "> But the PC has a bottom end that the Mac does not.\r\n\r\ntrue, but i think
    Olli was asking more about a primary-use machine, running all the major adobe
    apps as well as type-specific tools. i wouldn't suggest a bottom-line PC machine
    for that.\r\n\r\nas an aside, while the mac mini only begins to approach the aforementioned
    bottom end, it is an excellent choice for PC users that want to foray into the
    world of OSX, even if just for testing."
  created: '2007-03-29 20:18:09'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Charles wrote:\r\n<cite>By in large, most software is now written for Windows,
    and adapted for the Mac, for the simple reason that that the PC market is bigger.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    may be true for some apps, such as FontLab Studio, but not (for instance) for
    most Adobe applications, which are developed simultaneously and equally on both
    platforms. Neither is a \"port\" of the other.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, FontLab
    Studio in particular tends to come out with new Windows versions well ahead of
    the Mac versions.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-03-29 22:38:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "FontLab is also a quite small operation. There was a time when Adobe used
    to bring Mac versions to market first.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-30 01:30:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">That may be true for some apps, such as FontLab Studio, but not (for instance)
    for most Adobe applications, which are developed simultaneously and equally on
    both platforms. Neither is a \u201Cport\u201D of the other.\r\n\r\nOn the one
    hand this is great as you can expect compatibility between stuff generated on
    either platform, but on the minus side it means that you can't easily take advantage
    of system-level stuff like complex script support - you have to roll your own."
  created: '2007-03-30 04:35:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Totally. Can\u2019t you talk to someone at Apple with all your clout?\"\r\n:)
    thanks but my clout at Apple is only effective when Jobs is elsewhere. I had hopes
    with the FTC thing, but...apparently, with the depth of typographic edication
    he received before dropping out of Reed, his opinion is the only one. We are engaging
    an alchemist to try and convert carbon into cocoa, but that may take a while if
    it ever happens. Plan B, is as you read here: make Mac the creative subset of
    the software you use, with windows doing the brunt of your comminucations and
    interaction in the textural world, all from Mac hardware!\r\n\r\n\" this is great
    as you can expect compatibility between stuff generated on either platform, but
    on the minus side it means [...] - you have to roll your own.\"\r\nWell you can
    \ take advantage of system-level stuff if the portability contains the system
    level stuff. Tom, I think, is also talking about print; i.e. that it's important
    for Adobe to have immortal portability because their documents need that as a
    priority. The OSs OTOH, have a different focus, more akin to immortal importability
    and a seemingly insatiable desire to be compatible with themselves, regardless
    of the qualitative outcome for the user/reader. I'm  more confident than ever
    that this will pass, but in mean time, can you pass those papers? ;)"
  created: '2007-03-30 13:03:49'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "I haven't tuned in for a couple of days, but I now see that this thread has
    actually grown quite a bit. And I have indeed gotten some rational arguments (though
    I haven't yet had a chance to digest it all). Thanks again to everyone!\r\n\r\nOne
    thing though: I have never understood/accepted the way \"creative\" tends to be
    used in these kind of contexts. <em>Writing</em> can be creative, can't it? (Oh
    well, I guess ths just goes to show that I'm not very \"creative\" myself...)\r\n\r\nOlli"
  created: '2007-03-30 14:40:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Perhaps what is meant is \"visually creative\" work requires a computer and
    interface which is different than typing text. Writing is every bit as creative
    as design but does not need as much from the computer. Don't feel uncreative Olli,
    feel lucky that you can write without needing so much more complicated tools.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-30 14:53:33'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"There is a difference, but it\u2019s not big. On the other hand (at least
    at the time that I was buying my current system) the Intel-based Mac (laptops)
    were exorbitant.\"\r\n\r\nWell, again, in the US, the dif really isn't that much
    ONCE you actually compare the full set of features. There's ALWAYS a cheap Dell
    you can get, but it's typically going to be a lot bigger (poundage wise) and is
    going to be missing a handful of the features that the MacBook might have. That
    said, if you don't NEED those extra features, then certainly the PC might be the
    better choice.\r\n\r\n\"Web designers checking pages on muliple browser and platform
    combinations would find this a good way to go as well.\"\r\n\r\nYea, not so sure
    about type designers, but if you do any web work, being able to run Windows is
    pretty much a must for testing.\r\n\r\n\"But the PC has a bottom end that the
    Mac does not.\"\r\n\r\nThat bottom end is pretty crappy, though. It typically
    entails on-board everything which means once one part goes, the whole machine
    goes. \r\n\r\nAnd, then, of course, there is the Mac Mini. Not a bad price."
  created: '2007-03-30 14:53:40'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Writing can be creative, can\u2019t it?\"\r\n\r\nAbsolutely. And there
    are some great writing apps for OSX (and I'm sure XP as well).\r\n\r\nIf your
    main focus is writing, then I'd say find the software you want to use first and
    foremost.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-30 14:57:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> There\u2019s ALWAYS a cheap Dell you can get, but it\u2019s typically going\r\n>
    to be a lot bigger (poundage wise) and is going to be missing a\r\n> handful of
    the features that the MacBook might have.\r\n\r\nAbout a year ago I bought this
    Dell laptop that I'm using now. It's light (even though it has a 17\" screen),
    it was $1000 cheaper, and I couldn't see anything that it was missing (except
    looks). Really, I wanted to be able to buy a Mac (since, again, I think they're
    both equally bad but at least the Mac is more prestigious), which is why I even
    gave it a chance during my purchasing process, but it seemed like an irresponsible,
    immature decision.\r\n\r\nOne twist to this btw is that I haggled the price down
    by about $250 over the phone with Dell! Don't try that: online; or with Apple.
    So I guess if you have a mental block against haggling your difference would have
    been $750.\r\n\r\n> That bottom end is pretty crappy, though.\r\n\r\nBut it's
    <cite>our</cite> crappy - the crappy we have to design not with, but <cite>for</cite>.\r\n\r\nPaull's
    use of \"myth\" above is false - probably a case of blind platform\r\nloyalty,
    which btw is quite tellingly more common among Mac fans.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-30 16:58:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...the crappy we have to design not with, but for.\"\r\n\r\nThis may be
    true for reading on screen but I would guess that the people who actually BUY
    typefaces most are those in the design and publishing arena. I don't think they
    are the ones who buy the bottom basement PCs. I don't have a stick of evidence
    but I'll bet if you were to do a survey of users in the design/publishing area
    vs. the \"Averege Joe\", you would find far more PURCHASED (not bundled or free)
    fonts in the D/P groups library.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-30 17:13:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) The screen is kind of a big deal these days.\r\n2) Companies pay you to
    make fonts for average Joes,\r\nand in fact that's a hundred times better than
    retail.\r\n\r\nWe've already established that testing on both platforms is important.
    Plus as far as I'm concerned Mac + cheap PC isn't more expensive than a Mac that
    can run Windows. So the question (which has actually also been asked and \"answered\"
    already) is whether it's better to physically have one system or two. Running
    in circles is for puppies.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-30 17:21:19'
- author:
    name: paull
  body: "> Paull\u2019s use of \u201Cmyth\u201D above is false - probably a case of
    blind platform loyalty\r\n\r\nfor the record, i use both platforms. i prefer macs,
    but am not a mac fanboy. \r\n\r\nalso, the perception that PCs are cheaper than
    macs IS a myth, as it is a misrepresentation of the truth. the fact is, when you
    compare equal machines with equal capabilities (inasmuch as you can), macs and
    pcs cost about the same.\r\n\r\nhere's a link from a non-mac source if it makes
    you feel any better:\r\nhttp://news.com.com/Researcher+Macs+not+as+expensive+as+thought/2100-1041_3-6072837.html?tag=nefd.top\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-30 20:38:08'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "In my case it's a loyalty thing \u2014 Apple was the first to provide the
    means to be productive and creative on a computer. Seeing Quark 2 on a II (around
    1986) sold me completely. The end of pesky typesetters, litho-guys etc. \r\n\r\nHrant:
    if Amiga were still in business you'd be on that, I figure..."
  created: '2007-03-30 23:50:11'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "Sorry again for the lag \u2013 partly due to the fact that I'm using my old,
    slow G3 (my G5 is still in the Apple service waiting for a diagnosis).\r\n\r\n<cite>If
    your main focus is writing</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, I'd say my natural focus is <em>text</em>--writing/editing
    and typography. I don't know if that fits the market, though, and as I said, I'm
    not exactly starting a business at the moment, so I'm not prepared to make a big
    investment.\r\n\r\n<cite>I wanted to be able to buy a Mac \u2026 but it seemed
    like an irresponsible, immature decision.</cite>\r\n\r\nI must say I still kind
    of have the same feeling. I might consider an iMac or even the Mac Mini, though.\r\n
    \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2007-04-01 12:58:13'
- author:
    name: yuzgen
    picture: 112300
  body: "Hardware: Mac had almost become a PC. They turned SCSI into IDE, then SATA.
    Motorola CPU's to Intel. ATI cards to NVidia etc.\r\n\r\nSoftware: Mac had almost
    become a PC. We're using an ornate Unix OS.\r\n\r\nMe: I feel comfortable on both
    platforms. In my opinion it's all about the corporate image. Mac has always been
    targeted professional users. Successful marketing and campaigns made \"Apple Mac\"
    a professional platform in many years. I'm using a Mac Pro at work. An old iBook
    and a cheap PC at home. I'm using Mac keyboards and mouses on the PC. They just
    feel better."
  created: '2007-04-02 13:47:15'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "All the shifts that Apple has made \u2013 first to PPC, then to Unix, now
    to Intel \u2013 really do tax the Mac user.\r\n\r\n<cite>We\u2019re using an ornate
    Unix OS.</cite>\r\n\r\nWay too ornate, if you ask me! Right now I feel like I'd
    happily go and buy a PC unless I had the Mac version of FontLab 5.\r\n\r\nI just
    realized that the Nikon Scan software that came with the Coolscan V I recently
    bought may not work on Intel Macs..."
  created: '2007-04-02 15:31:50'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> Software: Mac had almost become a PC. We\u2019re using an ornate Unix OS.\r\n\r\nWow.
    We better start delineating between the terms \"PC\" and \"Windows\" then. Windows
    has nothing in common with Unix."
  created: '2007-04-02 17:00:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The funny thing is that in the 80s, the term IBM was used for a PC that was
    not a Mac. This was not because they were all made by IBM or used IBM processors
    because they didn't. It was just the prevailing jargon. Later, Windows was the
    term of choice (even though UNIX X Windows was available as well) AMD came along
    and messed up the Wintel label, then Apple went Intel and screwed up the whole
    shebang.\r\nReal UNIX is that truly geeky stuff used by scientists for serious
    stuff. It doesn't crash but has a learning curve few office workers would want
    to climb.\r\nApple put a nice shiny interface on top of it and made it more accessable
    to the non geek world who never sees a line of UNIX code.\r\nWhichever box you
    pick, you will have some set of issues to overcome. Your issue set may vary with
    what you choose and what you do. Take your best shot and know that you can always
    switch to something else if the headaches seem worse than the payoffs.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-02 17:44:16'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Paull\u2019s use of \u201Cmyth\u201D above is false - probably a case of
    blind platform\r\nloyalty, which btw is quite tellingly more common among Mac
    fans.\"\r\n\r\nNo, it is a myth, hrant. You have to compare the features list
    side-by-side. Now you found a cheaper Windows machine that had all the features
    you wanted/needed. That's great. But that doesn't change the fact that feature-for-feature,
    dollar-for-dollar, Macs are quite equal in price. It's just that you are fine
    with a level of machine that Apple doesn't currently offer, so that works great
    for you. Apple certainly doesn't do the shotgun approach to their target markets.
    They pretty much stick to 4: Pro vs. Consumer and Desktop vs. laptop. If you don't
    fit in their exact persona definition for any of those, then it may very well
    make sense to look at one of the other companies that might be targetting your
    needs more directly.\r\n\r\nAs for loyalty, both operating systems have pissed
    me off more than once. Apple support had been great at times, but there's a couple
    of bad experiences that still leave a bad taste in my mouth. Gateway's support
    was hell. Toshiba's support has been non-existant. I've never had a huge issue
    with Dell, but, then again, most of the Dells I've used have been el-cheapo toss-away
    models that didn't need to last more than 2 years as it is. HP supports Logoworks,
    so I can't justify supporing them too much.\r\n\r\n\"if Amiga were still in business\"\r\n\r\nI
    strongly believe that personal computing's 'fun vs. maintenance' ratio peaked
    with the Commodore 64 and Amiga. It's been downhill since then with 'maintenance'
    far exceeding any fun we're getting out of these things. ;o)\r\n\r\n\"All the
    shifts that Apple has made \u2013 first to PPC, then to Unix, now to Intel \u2013
    really do tax the Mac user.\"\r\n\r\nTax? I consider it a tax break. It's been
    a huge improvement.\r\n\r\n\"Way too ornate, if you ask me!\"\r\n\r\nHave you
    tried using a command-line Unix or Linux? I think you might change your opinion
    of the 'ornate' at that point. ;o)\r\n\r\n\"I just realized that the Nikon Scan
    software that came with the Coolscan V I recently bought may not work on Intel
    Macs\u2026\"\r\n\r\nFor the most part, in my experience, bundles software with
    peripherals are all crap. No matter the operating system or the peripheral, any
    bundled software will only cause headaches and eventually break. I wish peripheral
    companies would just write against industry standard hooks instead of writing
    their own bloated horrifically designed behomoths.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-03 15:25:58'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "<cite>Have you tried using a command-line Unix or Linux? I think you might
    change your opinion of the \u2018ornate\u2019 at that point. ;o)</cite>\r\n\r\nNo
    I haven't, and don't intend to :) What I meant was simply that I'd prefer the
    much simpler look Mac System 7, for instance. Even if it weren't for the fact
    that it taxes the system unnecessarily, I just dislike the \"Aqua\" look stylistically.
    But it's all part of the brand, of course."
  created: '2007-04-04 09:56:43'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I'll add, since price is a consideration, an Apple refurbs can be a GREAT
    deal. It's at the bottom right of the Store page - look for the red SAVE tag.
    For example a 17\" MacBook Pro can be had for $1999 which is a savings of $800
    from new. MacBooks and iMacs for under a grand. In terms of bang for your buck,
    this is hard to beat.\r\n\r\nI got a refurb iMac about a year and a half ago.
    Will do the same when I'm ready to upgrade the laptop. Have had no problems with
    it at all."
  created: '2007-04-05 17:20:44'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"So, when buying a PC, you can even put together a \u2018budget-system\u2019,
    or a monster machine. Whatever you want. Whatever your wallet allows.\r\nAs far
    as I know, you can only choose from a limited amount of different pieces of hardware,
    when ordering an iMac for example.\"\r\n\r\nI disagree. Depending on the machine,
    you can configure nearly any mac with memory, graphics cards, hard drive, etc.
    I think there's some logic to keeping the number of options down. Check the claim
    Apple makes about the number of possible configs of their top-end machines. an
    iMac is not a good example for comparison, since it's an all-in-one machine. Of
    course you can't get a cheap monitor for your iMac. ;)\r\n\r\nI have a Mac Mini
    and I'm nearing the point of having to upgrade to a more powerful machine, but
    that has to do with Adobe's CS2 suite churning away (due to it's own disproportionate
    processing demands).\r\n\r\nOlli, I fear you may not be aware of hidden \"costs\"
    involved with PC setup and configuration. Adding a printer, connecting to the
    internet, and other common milestones in a PC's life can be nightmares on the
    Windows side. Typically it's plug-and-play on the mac. My roommate, a programmer
    in about 20 different languages and a lifelong computer nerd in all platforms,
    had to help set up a new PC (with Windows XP) and it took 4 system reinstalls
    and countless fatal blue screens, and 3 hours to find a way through the windows
    security software so the machine would recognize the printer. New hardware all
    around. I NEVER had that kind of trouble with any peripheral or network on any
    of the macs I've had in the last 13 years. \r\n\r\nJust comparing dollar amounts
    isn't telling the whole story. Gray hair and ulcers are factors too. "
  created: '2007-04-05 18:37:54'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Yes but bear in mind it's much easier to get tech support if you have a PC.
    I spend untold hours on the phone recently unraveling network problems. Turned
    out to be an old creaky router, but needed to talk to at least 4 different tech
    supporters to figure out why my internet connection kept dropping and I couldn't
    print. It's so frustrating when you hit these walls with tech support - \"oh I
    can't help you with that, you'll have to call your service provider\" then \"oh
    I can't help you with that you need to call the router company\" etc etc.\r\n\r\nAnd
    then try to find someone who can help you on the Mac. Chalk one up for the PC
    there."
  created: '2007-04-05 18:46:58'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: The reason it is easier to get tech support for a PC is because there is more
    need. ;^P
  created: '2007-04-05 19:55:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have been using a Mac since 1986 and never called Apple Tech support because
    I was alway able to figure out my problem and there were very few of them.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-05 20:01:45'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I\u2019ll add, since price is a consideration, an Apple refurbs can be
    a GREAT deal.\"\r\n\r\nOther tips/tricks: \r\n - if you have a student or teacher
    in the family, they can get edu discounts\r\n - if you have a family member or
    friend in state/federal government, they can sponsor you to get a gov discount\r\n\r\n\"I
    disagree. Depending on the machine, you can configure nearly any mac with memory,
    graphics cards, hard drive, etc.\"\r\n\r\nNot entirely true. Consumer models (Mini,
    iMac) don't have a whole lot of options...mainly due to the tight industrial design
    and the fact that most consumers don't modify their boxes much. The desktop pro
    line, however, can have pretty much any peripheral you like with the exception
    of a custom MoBo.\r\n\r\n\"Yes but bear in mind it\u2019s much easier to get tech
    support if you have a PC.\"\r\n\r\nNetworking is networking, so whoever your networking
    person is isn't very good if the operating system you use was causing them to
    be unable to figure things out.\r\n\r\nBad tech support is just bad tech support.
    I got into an argument with Qwest support once arguing that \"no, the reason I
    can't connect to the internet has NOTHING to do with me not having Netscape Navigator
    installed\" even though they insisted that everythign would be fixed if I just
    installed Netscape.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-05 20:13:04'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: 'I don''t have a "networking person" so when my network crashed and I couldn''t
    figure it out on my own, I had to call tech support. I had to speak to Earthlink,
    Ricoh, Apple AND Linksys before figuring out it was the router. Apple and Earthlink
    are well configured for Macs, Ricoh had to transfer me to a separate Mac dept
    (more hold time) and Linksys doesn''t give official Mac support; luckily there
    was someone on hand who could help. '
  created: '2007-04-05 20:28:28'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Oh, yuck. Sorry that happened, Patty. :^!
  created: '2007-04-05 20:46:42'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Yea, I'd question any company that has a separate 'mac' tech support group.
    They really should have 'tech support', period. \r\n\r\nBut, the bigger the company
    you deal with, the less common sense and effort they're going to put into front-line
    tech support. That's why I'm reluctant to ever go with a large nation-wide ISP
    again (after dealing with Qwest)."
  created: '2007-04-05 22:07:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Patty,\r\nI use a small but reliable provider for my web account who is Mac
    based but does both Mac and PC. If you want contact info, let me know off line.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-05 22:45:36'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Actually Earthlink does handle Mac OK. It was a matter of a clusterf**k of
    network issues all related to the screwy router. It doesn't surprise me that they
    are more equipped to handle PC issues than Mac (90% vs 10% - and interesting that
    Earthlink is hep to the10%) more a matter of needing to fill in the gaps between
    the various segments. This is where IT comes in I guess.\r\n\r\nBut all resolved
    in the end, very simply, for only about $60. (not counting my time)"
  created: '2007-04-06 04:11:13'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "Is this thread still alive? Sorry if I seem to have been ignoring a thread
    I started myself!\r\n\r\nI got my G5 back yesterday; they couldn't find anything
    wrong with it. I may just get more RAM \u2013 I only have the standard 512 MB
    now, which (I've known all along) slows the system down badly \u2013 reinstall
    the OS (perhaps even do a clean install), and hope I'll have no more kernel panics.\r\n\r\nBut
    I still kind of feel that this would be the time to switch to a newer system.
    With Mac, I would face 2 problems:\r\n\r\n1) A forced choice between a machine
    that is severely limited in its expandability (esp. maximum RAM) and one that
    is very expensive. The cheapest Mac Pro costs about 2,500 euros in Finland. Used
    ones are very hard to find. I am aware of no firms here that sell refurbished
    Mac (yes, I've seen all the adds in MacWorld). \r\n\r\nADD: Patty, I now realize
    that Apple Store indeed has a section for refurbished stuff. But it turns out
    to be empty on both the Finnish and the Swedish Apple sites.\r\n\r\n2) Intel Macs
    might be unnecessarily slow running my current PPC-based programs. OK, I'm gonna
    have to update my Adobe apps sooner or later anyway (and that would be a reason
    to get an Intel Mac), but I'll probably be using NikonScan a lot (because of ICE4,
    if nothing else), and it may never appear in a Universal Binary version.\r\n\r\nNikon
    Scan doesn't seem to support Vista either, at least not yet, but maybe I could
    get a PC with XP and then update to Vista later. That is, there would no problem
    comparable to the PPC/Intel dichotomy. Am I right here?\r\n\r\nCarl is of course
    right when it comes to the learning curve with Windows. However, I still feel
    \u2013 like Patty  \u2013 that the availability of Windows support is a balancing
    factor. For example, my ISP recently told me, when I was having some problems
    with my email, that they no longer support the Mac. I've had that experience over
    and over.\r\n\r\nBy the way, I just came across <a href=\"http://forums.cnet.com/5208-6142_102-0.html?forumID=7&threadID=239575&messageID=2445159&tag=nl.e497#2445159\">this
    discussion</a> about Mac vs. PC.\r\n\r\nThe above may be just \"the grass is always
    greener on the other side\" type of whining. In the end, familiarity is a powerful
    factor, at least for me :)\r\n\r\nOlli"
  created: '2007-04-06 10:59:56'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I only have the standard 512 MB now\"\r\n\r\nOuch. Yea, up that to 2 gigs,
    at least.\r\n\r\n\"when I was having some problems with my email, that they no
    longer support the Mac.\"\r\n\r\nGet a new ISP. Email has nothing to do with the
    operating system you use. Macs and PCs (and linux, etc.) are 99% the same in terms
    of how they talk on a network or access the internet. \r\n\r\nSounds like they
    screw you on Apple pricing over there, though. So, with that said, grab a windows
    box!"
  created: '2007-04-06 15:42:30'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Olli,\r\n\r\nGoing back to your original question, it is clear that the software
    you plan to use works equally well (is written natively for) either platform.
    from that standpoint, it's a tie. There are plenty of controls in the system preferences
    of macs to control appearance like font size etc. One crucial preference is to
    set the monitor resolution to the actual native resolution of the monitor you
    have. I discovered recently (because someone was complaining about macs looking
    blurry) that when you select a resolution lower than the native monitor resolution,
    the mac system doesn't do a good job of rendering text at the lower res. It looks
    blown up and pixely, and yes, blurry. Once this is set correctly, you can set
    your default system preferences like minimum font size, and you can even change
    the look of the system (it can be other colors than blue, for instance). I've
    heard recently that the next version of OSX (coming soon?) will have a black or
    charcoal appearance.\r\n\r\nYou most certainly need more RAM than you have now.
    See what that does for your system performance and Adobe apps; I barely get normal
    performance from InDy with 1 Gig of RAM. The next version of the Creative Suite
    will be optimized for the Intel macs, so that performance slowdown <strong>should</strong>
    go away. "
  created: '2007-04-06 18:04:43'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "<cite>when you select a resolution lower than the native monitor resolution,
    the mac system doesn\u2019t do a good job of rendering text</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the hint, Carl! But does this apply to LCD or CRT or both?\r\n\r\nWhat I have
    found myself is that my old Sony CRT looks much more washed out when connected
    to my G5 running Tiger than when connected to my old G3 running OS 9.2. This might
    be due to the digital-to-analog adapter that I have to use with the G5, but I
    get the impression that it also has something to do with the OS.\r\n\r\nBut as
    I have said, this Sony CRT is very bad in general, having lost most of the contrast.
    It's barely usable even at 1600 x 1200, even though the max resolution is 2048
    x 1536. Can anyone suggest cheaper but good alternatives to the Apple 23-inch
    Cinema Display? It doesn't have to be wide-screen.\r\n\r\n<cite>There are plenty
    of controls in the system preferences of macs to control appearance like font
    size etc.</cite>\r\n\r\nAs far as I can see, Carl, you can't change the size of
    <em>all</em> system-level text, only the names of folders and files within their
    windows.\r\n\r\n<cite>The next version of the Creative Suite will be optimized
    for the Intel macs, so that performance slowdown should go away</cite>\r\n\r\nWell,
    that would be a reason not to invest any more money (e.g. in the form of RAM)
    into PPC-based hardware. Damned if you do, damned if you don't! This is what I
    meant buy saying that these kinds of switches tax the Mac user.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-07 07:53:12'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Here in Mexico, Macs are overpriced, a standard 17\" Mac Book Pro costs about
    43,000 pesos; this is about 3,900 dollars.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2007-04-08 00:18:06'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "That sounds bad, H\xE9ctor. But even here, it's 2,850 euros, or about 3,700
    US dollars (at least in <a href=\"http://www.tector.fi/advanced_search_result.php?osCsid=33b181a929a7e54e6a21e8eeac5656b3&keywords=Mac+Book+Pro&x=13&y=14\">this
    one store</a>).\r\n\r\nI took a brief look at Vista yesterday. It's coated with
    the same unnecessary eye candy as Tiger, to be sure (and a salesperson said that
    the way it's done, it actually places greater demands on the processor). However,
    you seem to be able to choose between two sizes for <em>all</em> text.\r\n\r\nI
    wasn't alert enough to say whether the text actually looked better at the larger
    size, though (as it took the salesperson with a password \u2013 and even a reboot
    \u2013 to effect the change), and the display wasn't high-resolution enough to
    actually require the larger size anyway."
  created: '2007-04-08 13:42:48'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "olli, i think in every of those three systems (xp, vista, osx) you can change
    the level of graphic \"ornaments\" in the os. i set my xp design to classic mode
    and its fast, easy to work with and non-distracting. you can turn of aero in vista,
    im 99% sure.\r\n\r\ni worked on both systems but have ever had a windows pc at
    home for both freelance work and personal use. <strong>both systems are about
    on the same level, i personaly prefer the myriads of shortcuts available to windows-users
    way over the drag & drop-workflow in osx - but thats personal preference!</strong>\r\nthe
    others were right about viri on windows pc: if you use firefox, if you have a
    good antivirus-program running (and there are good free ones!), check all incoming
    mails for virus and dont surf on \"shady\" websites, you'll never have a problem.
    a firewall (preferably on the hardware-side with a router) would be good, too."
  created: '2007-04-09 00:54:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Hrant: if Amiga were still in business you\u2019d be on that, I figure\u2026\r\n\r\nOnly
    if it did what I needed, which means being equal or better than the current Windows
    or MacOS machines. Brand loyalty is a luxury enjoyed exactly because the two platforms
    are pretty much the same now.\r\n\r\n> Apple put a nice shiny interface on top
    of it\r\n\r\nNo, Xerox PARC did.\r\n\r\n> you are fine with a level of machine
    that Apple doesn\u2019t currently offer\r\n\r\n?\r\nMy system isn't low-end at
    all! Well, not when I bought it.  :-/\r\n\r\n> hidden \u201Ccosts\u201D involved
    with PC setup and configuration.\r\n\r\nNow there's a myth.\r\nAs is the crashing
    frequency business.\r\n\r\n> you select a resolution lower than the native monitor\r\n>
    resolution, the mac system doesn\u2019t do a good job of\r\n> rendering text at
    the lower res.\r\n\r\nCarl, you still think this is anything besides a result
    of the fact that a given LCD screen only has one native resolution? The way I
    see it, OSX does an inadequate job of rendering text at any size. And this is
    something I feel any typophile should mind more than pretty much anything else.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 01:25:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Windows vs Mac? Garbage in, garbage out.\r\nhttp://www.stevensfkm.com/media/11/images/Logo_11.jpg\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 06:02:59'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "<cite>olli, i think in every of those three systems (xp, vista, osx) you
    can change the level of graphic \u201Cornaments\u201D in the os. i set my xp design
    to classic mode and its fast, easy to work with and non-distracting.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    did the same when working on XP during my internship in a printing house \u2013
    but I don't think that you can make a comparable change in Tiger (except, perhaps,
    with some third-party tweaking software?). That's my complaint.\r\n\r\n<cite>OSX
    does an inadequate job of rendering text at any size. And this is something I
    feel any typophile should mind more than pretty much anything else.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    get the same impression, both from personal experience and from reading some of
    the posts in this thread. Why is this? Anyone? This is indeed what we should be
    concerned about as typophiles.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 07:59:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't share that impression. Text renders quite fine on the 3 mac systems
    I use. Two have LaCie Electron Blue CRT monitors and my main computer is a 23\"
    Apple LCD, which I love. I also see plenty of PCs around and they are no better.
    I just don't get all the fuss. Screen rendering is much more about monitor and
    videocard combined with resolution and the font itself than which platform. \r\nIf
    I connect my old monitor from 10 years ago, it does look fuzzier that the new
    ones.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-09 14:00:26'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: As mentioned, all LCDs look like crap when not run at native resolutions.
  created: '2007-04-09 14:58:38'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Right: Hrant, rendering is as good as anywhere, on the Mac monitor I have,
    set at native resolution. I could provide a screenshot to illustrate, but given
    your dissatisfaction with any commercial PC product, I''m not sure what level
    your expectations are set at. In other words; I disagree: OSX/LCD monitor set
    correctly give me very crisp type, very clean image and text rasterization. Still
    not sure what you''re seeing. I don''t think it is as good as it could be, certainly
    not if monitor resolutions do finally increase, but I don''t have a problem reading
    and working in this environment. How well-hinted a certain font is can affect
    its onscreen readability, but that''s true everywhere. '
  created: '2007-04-09 22:35:56'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "OK, guys. <em>I</em> certainly can't claim to have done a good, objective
    comparison. It may be partly that the expectations for the Mac are higher.\r\n\r\n<cite>if
    monitor resolutions do finally increase</cite>\r\n\r\nIn that case we would really
    need the ability to change the size of all text and symbols (e.g. palettes) in
    all software (because the increase isn't going to affect everyone at the same
    time). And as I said, Windows seems to be ahead in this respect. Please correct
    me if I'm wrong!"
  created: '2007-04-10 07:31:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"you can\u2019t easily take advantage of system-level stuff like complex
    script support\"\r\n\r\nBy this I assume you mean OTish stuff? First of all, I
    think it fair to say that MS's 13 year delay in recognizing the need for OT support
    at system-level, as opposed to the long-time focus on application support, has
    all but killed it. Secondly, in order to take advantage of OT in a wider area
    than ones own computer, or PS devices, doesn't one need more than system-level
    support? One needs network-level support, no?"
  created: '2007-04-10 13:09:13'
date: '2007-03-25 11:30:48'
title: 'Naive platform question: Mac versus Windows'

---
