---
author:
  name: wolfattack
body: "First off, i wanted to just say how awesome this site it, i have been roaming
  around on it for a whole, but have not really posted much before.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
  I was just curious to see what everyone on here thinks about [[Art Center College
  of Design|Art Center]] in Pasadena? My name is Josh, i am 18 and live in Austin,
  TX, and have decided over the past year or so that i want to become a graphic designer/motion
  graphic designer. I have gone out to LA and checked out Art Center, and it seems
  like a really great place, but does it really seem worth it for the cost? I think
  it is about 15,000 dollars a semester now, and it goes up a little bit every year,
  so with supplies, tuition, etc, its looking to be around 120,000 - 150,000 dollars,
  which is pretty freaking expensive.\r\n\r\nI am not really sure what the salary
  range for graphic designers is, but in your opinion, does a school like Art Center
  really seem worth it?\r\n\r\nThanks in advance for any replies, this seems like
  it is such an awesome forum and resource for designers, i will definitely be hanging
  around this site a lot more now.\r\n\r\nWhile i am at it, here are 2 recent pieces
  i have done. I tore a ligament in my ankle last week skateboarding, so i am basically
  stuck inside my house. Might as well work on my portfolio eh? One is a poster for
  a skateboard video, the other is a spec logo for a design firm called \"joy\".\r\n\r\nhttp://img.photobucket.com/albums/v79/guccipingpong/bignewposter.jpg\r\n\r\nhttp://img.photobucket.com/albums/v79/guccipingpong/newest.jpg\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">over the past year or so that i want to become a graphic designer/motion
    graphic designer.\r\n\r\n>I am not really sure what the salary range for graphic
    designers is\r\n\r\nI think you need to do a bit more research, and come up with
    a plan (like a career path, lottery win, marrying a doctor) that would allow you
    to repay the 150K+interest+medial bills. And if the numbers don't add up then
    maybe look to a less expensive school.  "
  children:
  - author:
      name: wolfattack
    body: "i guess when i said those things, i was just trying to not make a super
      long post that would take too long for people to read through.\r\n\r\nI interned
      for a year at a film production company, which i occasionally freelance for
      to do some simple motion graphic work for. I am currently interning at a motion
      graphics studio called Shiny Object here in Austin. I would like to do motion
      graphic design as well as graphic design, but i think my final goal is to be
      a motion graphic designer. I feel like it is more important to get a solid foundation
      in design, and then branch out into other forms of graphic design, in my case,
      motion graphic design.\r\n\r\nI really enjoy doing both motion and print design,
      so i could see my self doing either, or even both.\r\n\r\nthe reason i said
      \"I am not really sure what the salary range for graphic designers is\" is because
      i have heard many different opinions on how much a designer out of college makes,
      and just wanted to ask some people on this forum that are actually working graphic
      design jobs what they make, or what a \"good\" designer should expect to make
      out of school."
    created: '2007-03-28 19:28:26'
  created: '2007-03-28 19:07:26'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">or what a \u201Cgood\u201D designer should expect to make out of school.\r\n\r\nTalent
    is obviously important but I think the salary ranges have more to do with the
    personality of the designer. One person may put up with lousy wages and annoying
    boss and co-workers. Another may put up with lower-end wages because the work
    is interesting. A third might screw every penny they can out of their employer,
    run a freelance operation on their employer's dime, and outsource the grunt work
    to their student \u2018intern\u2019. Maybe you need to be closer to the third
    person if you ever hope to get out of debt?   "
  created: '2007-03-28 20:11:10'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "\r\nhey Josh,\r\n\r\nArt Center is a great school - very intense and demanding
    - if you are willing to put a lot into it, you will get a lot out of it.\r\n\r\nSalary
    of course depends on a lot of things - it will vary significantly with location/geography
    for example. However, a starting graphic designer's salary is typically not going
    to look very attractive next to the total cost of an Art Center education.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    Art Center attracts the kind of people who go on to become art/creative directors,
    own their own firms, etc. - you have the potential to do very well.\r\n\r\nYou
    should definitely look into financial aid and see what that offers you as well.\r\n\r\n\r\nbest
    of luck,\r\njarrod\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-28 21:14:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Art center is a very respectable school, but if money is a problem take a
    look at the Academy of Art University in San Francisco. It's a commercial school
    and doesn't get the respect art center does in academia, but the students really
    do learn a lot, and churn out some great work. IIRC tuition at AUSF is around
    $8000-$9000 a semester, so it  will do wonders for your future debt load. It's
    a great place to go for motion graphics, because they've brought in Pixar and
    ILM to help develop curriculum and teach so that you'll come out of school with
    a good portfolio and ready to work.
  created: '2007-03-28 21:14:55'
- author:
    name: Ken Messenger
    picture: 111387
  body: "Art Center is a highly respected school in the design community although
    I'd say there are several across the country that are just as good. One thing
    to consider is the immediate recognition that you will get from having Art Center
    on your resume and how that, combined with Art Center's network of alumni, might
    translate into future earnings.\r\n\r\nThe bottom line is you can get a good (maybe
    not great) education from numerous schools, what will really determine your worth
    is your individual talent and determination."
  created: '2007-03-28 21:44:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I teach in ArtCenter's night program*, which means I don't have direct insight
    into the degree program, but I do get exposed to it a lot. It's very expensive.
    But: if you're a good student you get hooked into the relevant industry like you
    wouldn't believe; and they do give out scholarships. At a previous workplace two
    of the employees that I \"directed\" were from ArtCenter, and had had scholarships:
    both had natural talent, although they were really different people otherwise.
    Which makes me thing the scholarship process is pretty open-minded. BTW here's
    a recent addition to their website which shows sort of trendy but nonetheless
    telling videos about some (admittedly hand-picked) students:\r\nhttp://www.artcenter.edu/insite/
    _\r\nI actually got in touch with two of those students; one of them is currently
    in Singapore on some exchange program. In my book it's a huge plus to be given
    such opportunities.\r\n\r\n* http://typophile.com/node/30444\r\n\r\nOne other
    thing, which will seem flippant until you actually live here and then you wonder
    how people can live any which place: the weather. It's not a joke.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-28 22:34:27'
- author:
    name: wolfattack
  body: "man, thanks so much guys, i really appreciate it.\r\n\r\nWell, i do not come
    from a rich family, and normally i would not be able to be anywhere close to affording
    Art Center, but last year i found out that my grandma had been putting aside money
    for my college every year since i was born, and i have about $70,000 for school.
    I feel so lucky to have this money because there is no way i would be able to
    get close to ever affording such an expensive school without this money.\r\n\r\nI
    am applying for the Spring of 08, and since i have this money, i guess i will
    not be able to get any scholarship, but i am going to apply for some scholarships
    anyway.\r\n\r\nArt Center seems like a really competitive place, and i really
    want to get as much out of school as i can. I was accepted to the University of
    Texas last year, which i turned down to go to a community college here in austin,
    just to get some of the basic courses out of the way so once i get to Art Center
    i can totally focus on design.\r\n\r\nI have always wanted to live in California
    (since i skateboard) and my best friend moved out there last year, so hopefully,
    if i get accepted, i will be moving out there next year to go to school.\r\n\r\nThanks
    again everyone, if anyone has anything else to add, i would really appreciate
    it.\r\n\r\n-Josh"
  created: '2007-03-29 02:06:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">my grandma ...i guess i will not be able to get any scholarship\r\n\r\nCheck
    carefully into the aid requirements; they may only consider the financial condition
    of you and your parents. For goodness sake don't put your Grandma's money into
    your or your parent's account before you check on this. "
  created: '2007-03-29 02:13:05'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: "Josh\r\nSince you have some money set aside courtesy of your grandmother,
    great. You are young, you have drive, and you have a good idea of what you want
    to do. Be careful, check out aid requirements as William suggests, but most of
    all you will have to be frugal otherwise by the end of your college career you
    might be in debt up to your eyeballs. No joke. Burn your credit cards, don't borrow
    any money. Period. For more on what happens to students after school see Anya
    Kamenetz's book Generation Debt. If that doesn't open your eyes nothing will.
    Her book is <a href=\"http://www.anyakamenetz.blogspot.com\">here</a> I'm a lot
    older than you are but have young children so this book really had an impact on
    my thinking about the future in college for them. Good luck. Jordan"
  children:
  - author:
      name: wolfattack
    body: "i will check that book out. Luckily, i am a penny pincher, i hate spending
      money, so i am going to try my best watching my money.\r\n\r\nI actually called
      Art Center not too long ago about this very same thing William said, and they
      said if you are under 21 (i think), then they look at your parents financial
      conditions.\r\n\r\nBut yeah, i have been trying my best to have a plan for what
      i want to do. Being 18, i sometime get discouraged when i see other peoples
      work, or some of the big studios in LA and New York, and think that maybe i
      just was not born with natural talent. I have come to the conclusion thought
      that i will never know if i do not try, so if i get into Art Center, i might
      as well go and give it my all, and see where i go.\r\n\r\nA lot of people tell
      me \"Austin is such a great place, how could you ever move to Los Angeles?\"
      and i think there is just this feeling i have that i need to go live somewhere
      else for once, i have lived in Austin since i was 5, and i want to try something
      new, meet new people, and learn."
    created: '2007-03-29 02:44:22'
  created: '2007-03-29 02:25:22'
- author:
    name: umlautthoni
    picture: 111959
  body: "Josh\r\n\r\nI currently work and have worked with several Art Center grads.
    All of them have been in the work place for some time now. At today's prices,
    every one of them has lamented about the cost and how Art Center is not 'worth
    it'. Any school you go to will only be 'worth' the amount of time/energy you put
    in; garbage in = garbage out. Establish residency in California and you'll find
    equally challenging programs at CS-Long Beach, CS-Fullerton, etc. etc., but for
    A LOT less money.\r\n\r\nThere's always an aleternative. . ."
  children:
  - author:
      name: wolfattack
    body: ">At today\u2019s prices, every one of them has lamented about the cost
      and how Art Center is not \u2018worth it\u2019. Any school you go to will only
      be \u2018worth\u2019 the amount of time/energy you put in; garbage in = garbage
      out. Establish residency in California and you\u2019ll find equally challenging
      programs at CS-Long Beach, CS-Fullerton, etc. etc., but for A LOT less money.\r\n\r\n\r\nreally?
      dang, hmm, i guess that is something i should think about."
    created: '2007-03-29 02:45:30'
  created: '2007-03-29 02:40:37'
- author:
    name: umlautthoni
    picture: 111959
  body: "D'oh!\r\n\r\naleternative = alternative"
  created: '2007-03-29 02:41:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Josh, it's very hard to exaggerate the merits of moving away.\r\nEven if
    it's to a place that's \"worse\".\r\n\r\n> my grandma had been putting aside money\r\n>
    for my college every year since i was born\r\n\r\nInterestingly that's how one
    of the students in those testimonials did it too. Except then she got sick and
    left him high and dry - which is when the scholarship kicked in. And yeah, like
    William said.\r\n\r\nPlus Jordan's advice is golden too. A school like ArtCenter
    will actually drain some of your personal money on your student projects, but
    for the rest of your life try to get into the groove of being bohemian: this is
    the only time you'll be able to do it with impunity, and it brings life into a
    very special perspective.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-29 02:44:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I don't have any experience with art schools in particularly, but here are
    my thoughts as one who spent a lot of time at Universities, as a student and teacher,
    and also sent my three kids to college. \r\n\r\nI assume you talked to students
    and attended classes when you visited. This is essential to seeing whether you
    are a good match--and doing the same for 4-5 other places. If the students who
    love it are like you, great. If those who hate it are like you, not so good. \r\n\r\nI
    am a great believer in the importance of the distinctive cultural chemistry or
    atmosphere of an institution. And you only get it by physically being there and
    talking to students and teachers. It is very important because that's what you
    live with. The other thing, which is a totally different issue, is what kind of
    jobs the graduates go into. Does the Art Center actually have a cachet that gives
    you an advantage in the market place; and do they help graduates make the transition?
    Find out. The atmosphere and the job edge will help you judge about whether it's
    worth the money. \r\n\r\nThere is also the question of great, inspiring teachers.
    Ask the students whether they have any of these. Even in the best institutions
    they are rare, and they also certainly exist at places that have less cachet.
    If you hear of some great teachers from the students, that is a very good sign. "
  created: '2007-03-29 03:17:25'
- author:
    name: TypophileGirl
  body: "wish i coulda' gone to art center. lucky.\r\n\r\ninstead i went to a public
    university, lacking in funds and the appropriate curriculum. then again,i have
    learned a lot regardless i have a steady portfolio and am not up to my ears in
    debt i might never be able to pay off because my family and i are broke.\r\n\r\nwho
    is the lucky one? wish i knew. if opportunity is a'knockin', look through the
    peep hole before you answer the door.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-29 03:29:04'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Wolfattack\r\n\r\nI've taught part-time at Art Center (book design, letterpress,
    typography) for about seven years now. It is expensive but you do get what you
    pay for. They have some very good programs. Automobile Design is second to none
    as I understand. And they do have state of the art facilities. I would say though,
    for the money spent, learn as much as you can, work as hard as you can. Leave
    the skate board in Texas (if you are serious). Then again, maybe not.\r\n\r\nAt
    any rate, I would think it is one of those rare places where the degree has some
    importance in the marketplace. But it is always what you put into it, and what
    you take away from it that matters.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-29 04:41:19'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "<em>\"...120,000 - 150,000 dollars, which is pretty freaking expensive.\"</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    a fair bit of cash wolfattack - are you sure <em>you're</em> worth it... ;)\r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro"
  created: '2007-03-29 05:30:44'
- author:
    name: cooper design
    picture: 111844
  body: "A couple of years after graduation I had a job tracking carnivores -  bobcat,
    mountain lion, wolverine, fisher, etc. - with the wildlife department of the US
    Forest Service. It is worth noting that you can tell the difference between a
    wild animal and a domestic animal in the register of their prints. When a bobcat
    lifts its front left foot, for example, the rear left foot comes in and prints
    precisely in the same spot, no matter what speed the animal is moving. When you
    look at the print in snow there are sharp, crisp ridges between each of the pads;
    it looks like a single print, but is actually two. \r\n\r\nDomestic animals, by
    contrast, have a much more slovenly gait and leave tracks that are all over the
    place. It is as though they have become imprecise on a biomechanical level. The
    rear foot will frequently miss the print of the front foot entirely. "
  created: '2007-03-29 20:37:11'
- author:
    name: wolfattack
  body: ">A couple of years after graduation I had a job tracking carnivores\r\n\r\nDid
    you go to Art Center, or a different school? Are you still tracking animals or
    are you a designer now, just out of curiosity.\r\n\r\n\r\nThanks again for all
    the advice so far guys"
  created: '2007-03-29 22:08:34'
- author:
    name: cooper design
    picture: 111844
  body: 'I am a designer, but studied the fine rather than the graphic arts at a state
    rather than a private university. One rarely - if ever - achieves conventional
    success by unconventional means. '
  children:
  - author:
      name: wolfattack
    body: ">One rarely - if ever - achieves conventional success by unconventional
      means.\r\n\r\nOkay, i see. So coming from your perspective, are you saying Art
      Center and graphic design are conventional and fine arts and State schools are
      unconventional?"
    created: '2007-03-30 00:38:31'
  created: '2007-03-29 22:59:27'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Not true in music at all - the trick is to keep your head on your shoulders
    after \"The Man\" comes around and tells you you're cool.\r\n\r\nProbably true
    in most of the arts.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-03-29 23:10:15'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Yes State schools are SO unconventional\u2026 :)\r\n\r\nArt Center has a
    sterling reputation. I live in LA. The environment here is challenging - there's
    talent from everywhere converging trying to find the gold. Nothing has changed
    since 1849\u2026\r\n\r\nAnd I like that.\r\n\r\npeace\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: wolfattack
    body: ">Yes State schools are SO unconventional\u2026 :)\r\n\r\nhaha, yeah i just
      sounded pretty stupid. Cut me some slack, i am stuck at home on pain meds for
      some torn ligaments in my ankle, but it is giving me some good time to work
      on my portfolio."
    created: '2007-03-30 01:00:56'
  created: '2007-03-30 00:51:36'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I thought you were making a joke\u2026\r\n\r\nOf course I am an eLAlien\u2026
    :)\r\n\r\nSucks about the ligaments - better put that board away for a while.
    Whatever you decide to do - best of luck!\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-03-30 01:20:42'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "<a href=\"http://maryandmatt.net/Pages/cb.html\">...skateboard deck chalkboard.</a>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/chlkbrd1_5490.jpg]\r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro"
  created: '2007-03-30 02:48:17'
- author:
    name: WorkOslo
  body: "I graduated Art Center 7 years ago, and havent regretted the money spent
    for a second. It is a demanding education, and not all students make the best
    out of it, but the ones who do have a great career potential. Most of the guys
    I know got out and made 50-60K right off the bat, now they are around 100K + (this
    is all graphic designers). \r\n\r\nBUT, there are some that never had the drive
    and never went anywhere. I would also look into CalArts in Valencia if I was you.
    Difference between the two seems to be that ArtCenter is prepping you more for
    a professional career, and CalArts more creative push. I know great designers
    from both. If you think you can manage financially, and really want it, go ahead
    and do it."
  created: '2007-03-30 09:55:03'
- author:
    name: Beta
    picture: 111410
  body: "I teach Typography and Design in a Community College in the LA area, so I
    have some exposure to Art Center. Their program is very intense and can be completed
    in three years if one has the strength and $ to go continuously. Most of their
    \"freshpersons\" have several years of college already. I think that only a small
    percentage come directly from high school. \r\n\r\nMany local students go to Pasadena
    City College first to tighten up their admissions portfolio. The other posters
    are correct that there are some excellent programs at the local Cal State Universities
    including San Diego. CSU Long Beach has a national reputation in this area although
    it is \"enrollment impacted\" which means that it may be difficult to get classes.
    Admission into their upper division program is very competitive and available
    only to students who have been there for several semesters. \r\n\r\nAs a teacher,
    I tell my students that the greatest determinating factor in their education is
    their own contribution and effort, but that being said, a competitive place like
    Art Center can bring out the best in a talented and dedicated student. \r\n\r\nGood
    luck with your education!"
  created: '2007-03-30 17:50:19'
- author:
    name: wolfattack
  body: ">BUT, there are some that never had the drive and never went anywhere.\r\n\r\nYeah,
    I have always thought that there is no point in going to a design school unless
    you put everything you can into it. Especially since it costs so much, i definitely
    want go get as much out of those few years as possible. Thanks for the help.\r\n\r\n-Josh"
  created: '2007-03-30 20:23:33'
date: '2007-03-28 18:24:35'
title: Art Center

---
