---
author:
  name: Beta
  picture: 111410
body: "Has anyone found the list of included fonts for the new CS3 packages? I looked
  around adobe.com and found only vague references to \"over 100 fonts included\".
  \r\nIn the CS2 copy, they refer to \"over 180 fonts included\". I do not know if
  this is just advertising copywriting, or if the fonts have been cut back. I am hoping
  to see Arno Pro in there. \r\n\r\nI am a community college educator. Our lab really
  depends on the bundled fonts, as we do not have the budget for outfitting 60 workstations
  with a large font library. We have to get along on system fonts and whatever Adobe
  gives us with the CS."
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: You will get Arno Pro with CS3 ... If you have a serial number for CS2 you
    can <a href="https://www.adobe.com/cfusion/entitlement/index.cfm?e=labs%5Fphotoshop">download
    Photoshop CS3 beta</a> which includes Arno Pro.
  created: '2007-03-28 22:51:09'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: But the Arno Pro you get with the CS3 Beta is also a Beta font.....
  created: '2007-03-28 23:23:55'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Well, yes, that is true. :^] But I did say you'd get it with CS3 so I was
    just saying it was available now ... but yes, only a Beta Version.
  created: '2007-03-29 01:02:22'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Wow. I didn't realize that was included. What a beautiful type family.
  created: '2007-03-29 02:22:22'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "All the various configurations of Creative Suite 3 will ship with Arno Pro
    and a medium-sized set of fonts. We'll be posting a list Real Soon Now. Hypatia
    Sans Pro will be available as one of the optional registration incentives, for
    the suites and individual CS3 applications.\r\n\r\nMore on these topics on my
    blog within the next week or two.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-03-31 18:24:17'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Thomas - I thought CS 3 was scheduled for spring release - it's spring!!!
    When will it be available?\r\n\r\nNow... tell me if I'm crazy. CS 2.3 premium
    retails for $1,199.00. CS 3 premium for $1,799.00. The upgrade from 2.3 to 3 is
    $440. So if I calculate properly it's cheaper for me to order CS 2.3 now and then
    buy the upgrade than to buy CS 3 from scratch? \r\n\r\nOr, conversely, to buy
    CS 3 Standard for the $1199 and then add on Dreamweaver (I don't use flash).\r\n\r\nI
    guess I'm pretty shocked at the $1799 sticker price for the Premium set! A pretty
    big bite for the freelance designer."
  created: '2007-03-31 20:43:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Why don't you just ugrade to CS3 for $599 Patty? Check Adobe's upgrade qualifications
    and see what is best for you.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/elegibility_6599.png]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-31 21:30:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Our lab really depends on the bundled fonts, as we do not have the budget
    for outfitting 60 workstations with a large font library.</em>\r\n\r\nI haven't
    done the math on this, but I suspect that your software would be less expensive
    from this company:\r\nhttp://www.corel.com\r\n\r\nCorel's applications come with
    fonts too, but you would have some money left over to let your students experience
    typefaces from a variety of foundries -- including Adobe. Surely working with
    faces like Gotham, Mrs Eaves and Chalet are an important part of a typographic
    education today?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-01 06:56:10'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: Nick, I'm sympathetic to your arguments against bundling, and I license my
    share of type from independent foundries like yours. But suggesting that Bonnie's
    students forgo training with industry-standard tools from Adobe in favor of greater
    typographic variety is just silly. She'd be doing them a real disservice by following
    your advice.
  created: '2007-04-01 08:48:32'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: ">So if I calculate properly it\u2019s cheaper for me to order CS 2.3 now
    and then buy the upgrade than to buy CS 3 from scratch?\r\n\r\nThat's what a lot
    of people are doing Patty.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-04-01 16:26:20'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I'm on it. Glad this thread got started and I figured this out before CS 2.3
    was no longer available. Found it online for a bit cheaper than at Adobe's site
    too.
  created: '2007-04-01 16:56:57'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Take a close look at this link before you jump Patty:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/cfusion/knowledgebase/index.cfm?id=tn_19582\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-04-01 17:00:50'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Interesting. I already jumped, but I will have proof of purchase, in the
    form of a digital receipt and most likely a printed receipt when the product arrives.
    \r\n\r\nBut does this mean I might qualify to get the CS 3 upgrade for free? How
    do I find out if I'm eligible for this post-announcement upgrade? I can't find
    that info on the site. The other strange thing is they say \"Upgrades from $599\"
    but then also list the upgrade at $440. In any event unless it's free I'm not
    going to leap to it as my clients won't likely have it for months.\r\n\r\nI had
    thought you only needed a valid serial # for an upgrade, not proof of purchase.
    But I guess proof of purchase is necessary for the post-announcement upgrade because
    it's date-sensitive.\r\n\r\nThanks for the heads up. Maybe I'll call Adobe tomorrow
    to figure this out.\r\n\r\nApologies for thread-hijacking."
  created: '2007-04-01 17:28:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>but suggesting that Bonnie\u2019s students forgo training with industry-standard
    tools from Adobe in favor of greater typographic variety is just silly.</em>\r\n\r\nMark,
    your practice is impeccable, but I should point out that Bonnie identified herself
    as an educator, not as an Adobe software trainer."
  created: '2007-04-02 01:56:17'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Nick, you can't really suggest that she teach her students Corel over Adobe
    software? They'll never get jobs.
  created: '2007-04-02 04:09:22'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> In the CS2 copy, they refer to \u201Cover 180 fonts included\u201D.\r\n\r\nEach
    style (regular, bold, italic, light caption etc etc etc ) = 1 font. "
  created: '2007-04-02 04:20:03'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Nick, if you're suggesting that there's more to a design education than just
    learning how to use software, or that great design can be created with products
    other than those from Adobe, then I'm with you. (Heck, I started out using Ventura
    Publisher and Corel Draw.) \r\n\r\nBut, in the U.S. at least, experience with
    some combination of Quark Xpress, and the Big 3 (InD, AI, PS) from Adobe is required
    for the overwhelming majority of design positions, especially those that require
    the typographic savvy you (and the rest of us) advocate."
  created: '2007-04-02 04:34:27'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"But suggesting that Bonnie\u2019s students forgo training with industry-standard
    tools from Adobe in favor of greater typographic variety is just silly\"\r\n\r\nFor
    a designer, I'd argue type is a much more important tool than any particular flavor
    of image editing/DTP software.\r\n\r\n\"Nick, you can\u2019t really suggest that
    she teach her students Corel over Adobe software? They\u2019ll never get jobs.\"\r\n\r\nA
    good design education shouldn't consist of teaching software, but of teaching
    design. Students can learn software on their own. "
  created: '2007-04-02 15:17:18'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: So, can anyone recap the current deal? Does it make sense to purchase CS2
    right now? Do we then get the free upgrade to CS3?
  created: '2007-04-02 15:18:13'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Darrel - I spoke to Adobe. If you purchase the full CS 2.3 premium right
    now (for $1199 + tax) you will get a free upgrade to CS 3 when it's released.
    It seems much easier to purchase it either from Adobe or a licensed reseller.
    I believe this offer is good for 30 days from the announcement date of March 27.\r\n\r\nBack
    to the thread - yes, of course you need to learn principles of design and type
    if you're going to be a designer. But it seems nonsensical to have students work
    in a software that is barely used professionally. Given that Bonnie is teaching
    at a community college and not Pratt I'd guess she's teaching the students professional
    skills as well as the fundamentals of design and therefore is right to have them
    working in InDesign, Illustrator or Quark.\r\n\r\nYou'd be hard-pressed to find
    a design job description that includes Corel, especially at the expense of those
    other programs."
  created: '2007-04-02 16:36:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Added to which the latest version of Draw doesn't run on a Mac.\r\nGame,
    set and match, Adobe.\r\n\r\nBonnie, if you have a few cents left over after you've
    obscelesced last year's Apple and Adobe product, as an educational institution
    you can get a special deal on fonts (which are considerably more durable) from
    most foundries, including my own. There have been several threads about this at
    Typophile, eg\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/29178"
  created: '2007-04-02 17:43:47'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: '[Edit: This entire post was wrong. Mea culpa.]'
  created: '2007-04-02 17:52:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Tiff,\r\nI think you missunderstood Nick's post. The way I read it, he is
    saying that fonts (not just his) are more \"durable\" than the applications and
    computers that use them. I can still use my type 1 Adobe fonts from 1987 while
    my old Mac SE and Adobe Illustratoer version 1 are obsolete.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-02 18:37:02'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Ooh! :^( Dang!! I'll just edit my post and hope you, Nick, forgive me.
  created: '2007-04-02 18:55:29'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>A good design education shouldn\u2019t consist of teaching software,
    but of teaching design. Students can learn software on their own.</cite>\r\n\r\nGood
    point. While you\u2019re at it write drawing, writing, and history out of design
    education as well. Those subjects can all be learned with a few trips to Barnes
    & Noble. Design firms will certainly appreciate your sentiments, they certainly
    have nothing better to do with their time than teach the interns how to use popular
    software."
  created: '2007-04-02 19:48:07'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Aluminum -  this is the kind of attitude that sends grads to me applying
    for a print job and when asked what ink density is - they stare at me blankly.\r\n\r\nAre
    you saying that the technical aspects of what we do are solely the students responsibility?\r\n\r\nI
    don't think it should be that black and white.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-04-02 20:00:13'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I'd also argue (and I'm sure I'll be unpopular here) that design education
    is a waste of time. I learned on the job. As an employer I never cared whether
    an applicant had gone to design school. I'm for studying the ephemeral and impractical
    like philosophy or literature (or fine art!) and then taking a quick software
    class extracurricularly. Get an entry level job and you'll get your design education.
  created: '2007-04-02 21:15:51'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: The problem is that design schools continue to focus on the portfolio and
    not on the real world. Not enough business side at all.
  created: '2007-04-02 21:49:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It is much tougher to talk someone into that \"entry level job\" these days
    though Patty. They want to make money on you right away and not take away time
    from other staff to train you.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-02 22:00:35'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Couldn't agree more, Tiff. \r\n\r\nI'm a big proponent of (if you have the
    luxury) the real american university experience rather than going to trade school,
    which is what design school really is. And if it is trade school, it should be
    preparing you for the trade. Trying to make its goals seem any loftier than that
    is, IMHO, just pretension. And you cheat yourself out of a true well-rounded education.
    I don't know many people who went to design school - undergrad - who learned anything
    much about anything else. And design grad school - well why go into that much
    debt? Graphic design doesn't pay enough.\r\n\r\nI should clarify that I don't
    think design classes are necessarily a waste of time. But why narrow yourself
    down to design school when you're way too young to know what you really want to
    be doing? I don't think it gives you any advantages in the working world.\r\n\r\nAnd
    as long as I'm off on a rant, for any other job than entry-level I'd only hire
    someone with real work experience. For entry-level I didn't necessarily care if
    someone had much design experience, if they were creative and motivated they'd
    learn fast on the job. A lot of entry-level jobs require a good deal of grunt
    work before you get to really design anything and my experience was that design
    school grads were kinda expecting to be handed a nice juicy design to do on day
    one. I could live without the ego."
  created: '2007-04-02 22:06:12'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "pattyfab: <cite>But it seems nonsensical to have students work in a software
    that is barely used professionally.</cite>\r\n\r\nAgreed. Yet what 'used professionally'
    means may change during the course of a student life. When I studied, there was
    XPress and nothing else. At my university's design department, a single InDesign
    license was obtained upon my request and used by me and nobody else. Maybe two
    years ago they made a radical switch to Creative Suite. Today's students know
    of XPress by hear-say.\r\nWith a designer life in mind, maybe students should
    be trained to ride different horses rather than one which is considered standard
    here and now, so: InDesign <cite>and</cite> XPress, Illustrator <cite>and</cite>
    Corel Draw. Software 'used professionally' is a quickly moving target. Now I notice
    that Freehand wasn't even mentioned on this thread.\r\n\r\n[edit: pattyfab, I
    saw your latest post after having posted mine -- in fact: a couple of latest posts
    ...]"
  created: '2007-04-02 22:11:19'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Maybe students should use cheaper software that is less feature rich than
    InD & QXP. Because that way they would have to concentrate on the process of designing,
    instead of 'learning' software and overusing 'features' that distract.\r\nThere
    are some nice alternatives around, eg RagTime, Stone Create and VivaDesigner (VivaPress
    for the poor\u2026)."
  created: '2007-04-02 22:22:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Patty,\r\nI don't know what you think happens in design schools or which
    one you have experience with but they are not the same and many are far more than
    trade schools. It costs the same in time and money to major in philosophy as it
    does in design. I am not saying attending design school is essential but it certainly
    is more advantageous than a liberal arts education if you intend to find a career
    in design. \r\nThere was no such thing as design software until I was in my 40s
    and I just picked it up on my own with no one to teach me. Anyone can learn it
    who really wants to. It helps if you know what it is for though.\r\nAlso, egos
    are not limited to design school graduates. They can be found in equal numbers
    among all distributions of people.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-02 22:29:42'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "A short followup: VivaDesigner is very cheap and there even is a FREE licence:\r\n\r\nhttp://software.viva.de/english/products/vivadesigner/\r\n\r\nCan
    you beat that? A 1000 bucks plus left to buy fonts with\u2026"
  created: '2007-04-02 22:30:37'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Does anybody still use Freehand?\r\n\r\nI was trained in Pagemaker (on the
    job). That went out the window. I think students need to learn what's in common
    use at the time and when that shifts they'll learn the new programs as necessary.
    Besides once you have basic familiarity with one or more of these programs it
    becomes easier to learn the others. Like languages."
  created: '2007-04-02 22:37:06'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Since I'm in print I wish that they would learn certain technical things
    about how to get print done effectively. It blows my mind that not one person
    straight out of school has ever been able to answer that simple question: What
    is ink density?\r\n\r\nUnless you are some designer who is so fabulous that the
    technical quality of your work doesn't matter and you are surrounded by production
    folks and separators to fix your mistakes (I consider them mistakes) then these
    are things you need to know.\r\n\r\nShould design courses not give some fundamental
    knowledge of real world conditions and technical problems?\r\n\r\nI just think
    you need to be technically as well as aesthetically sound to be truly employable.\r\n\r\npeace"
  children:
  - author:
      name: cmontalvan
    body: "I am a student at a design university, and I think it's really interesting
      what everyone considers important in their experience. I have teachers who have
      worked with print their entire career, and others who have only done web design.
      Everyone brings their own perspective, and it is the student's responsibility
      to ensure that they are taking what they learn, from all of their classes and
      applying it to all of their projects. \r\n\r\nI think that it is more based
      on the quality of the student than of the school. Some students refuse to sketch
      ideas. They just refuse. With out that step, the finished product is \"done\"
      on the first attempt and they are resistant to change. And it doesn't look as
      wonderful as those with real concepts behind/ supporting them. \r\n\r\n But
      I do have some questions for you- What is ink density? Is there an answer other
      than the ratio of chemical to water in the production process of ink? Because
      that's all that I can think of. Is there an ideal density for production? And
      how much does it vary based on the material that you are printing on? Are there
      any sort of general standards?"
    created: '2007-04-09 13:27:14'
  created: '2007-04-02 23:11:00'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"Hypatia Sans Pro will be available as one of the optional registration
    incentives,\"\r\n\r\nHey! Can't wait! Thomas, can we get a tiny peek? We've seen
    and even used the early version of Arno. Just a snapshot, pleeease? \r\n\r\nPaul:
    Agreed. Graphic Design curricula generally seem to lack a substantial print production
    base. Lots of graphic designers need production people to make their creations
    printable. "
  created: '2007-04-03 18:40:29'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Good point. While you\u2019re at it write drawing, writing, and history
    out of design education as well.\"\r\n\r\nNo, that's all theory.\r\n\r\nListen,
    if you hire interns just to be production artists, fine, your argument makes sense.
    And students should DEFINITELY know the tools of the trade.\r\n\r\nHOWEVER, tuition
    should go towards quality education. Experienced professors and instructors. Not
    simple how-to tech classes. \r\n\r\nOur school, at the time, was big on this.
    Did a lot of kids graduate barely knowing how to use QuarkXPress? Yep. But they
    weren't great designers either. So, that just made it that much easier to cull
    them from the crowd. ;o)\r\n\r\n\"Those subjects can all be learned with a few
    trips to Barnes & Noble.\"\r\n\r\nIf you think learning a software program is
    as complex and vast as art history 101, then I guess you win the argument. Personally,
    my 5 year old can figureo out KidPix in 10 minutes, so I'm not too worried about
    upcoming genrations being able to figure out whatever software they have in front
    of them at the time.\r\n\r\n\"Design firms will certainly appreciate your sentiments,
    they certainly have nothing better to do with their time than teach the interns
    how to use popular software.\"\r\n\r\nThey certainly don't. They also shouldb't
    have to waste their time teaching their interns basic design concepts because
    they spend their classroom time learning InDesign QuickStart instead of proper
    type layout. ;o)\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-03 18:48:27'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Aluminum - this is the kind of attitude that sends grads to me applying
    for a print job and when asked what ink density is - they stare at me blankly.
    Are you saying that the technical aspects of what we do are solely the students
    responsibility?\"\r\n\r\nThat's not quite the same thing. Learning ink density
    is a production concept of the media itself. And is important to learn. Learning
    a specific printing press? Not so much. The concepts are the same regardless of
    the printing press.\r\n\r\nTrapping, overprinting, CMYK, spot colors, line screens,
    etc...these are all important technical issues students should underststand. The
    specific software? Not so much, as understanding the underlying printing and pre-press
    technology is more important than a specific set of keyboard commands.\r\n\r\nI
    don't care you you use Adobe Illustrator, Freehand, Corel or inkscape to draw
    me a logo. If you understand the concept of printing, line art, and proper bezier
    curves, you'll do fine with any of them.\r\n\r\nMaybe another way to say this:
    It's easier to train staff on a specific piece of software vs. teaching them the
    vast underlying concepts and history of the media overall.\r\n\r\nTake web designers
    today. A lot of 'design schools' offer 'interactive design' which really is just
    a few semester's worth of Dreamweaver and Flash. These kids can't tell a UL tag
    from a MP3. As such, they really don't understand the medium they are working
    in. I'd much rather have a student that was tought HTML with notepad. I can teach
    them DW in a matter of hours if they fully understand the underlying concepts.\r\n\r\n\"Does
    anybody still use Freehand?\"\r\n\r\nI do. And it's like sticking with an abusive
    spouse. Yea, Freehand leaves us with a black eye every other weekend, but we love
    it so. Why can't I quit you Freehand!?\r\n\r\n(And may Freehand RIP...you will
    be truly missed!)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-03 18:59:15'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I think it's limiting to go to design school. Period. In many countries you
    are forced to decide on a \"trade\" before entering university. America still
    offers the liberal arts degree. I entered college expecting to major in art, ended
    up majoring in... art. But along the way I took astronomy, intellectual history,
    dance, psychology, russian literature, etc etc. Those were some of my best classes.
    I'd never have taken such a range of subjects had I been in design or art school
    (and if I had, the profs would probably not have been as good.) I feel like I
    graduated a more well-rounded, better-educated person than had I narrowed my focus
    to what interested me at age 18. And that no doubt makes me a better designer.
    It's not just about design.\r\n\r\nOr software.\r\n\r\nPlus I think it broadens
    one's perspective to be around all types of people, not only designers or artists.\r\n\r\nAnd
    yeah, I learned how to write, too. That has been an immeasurable help in publishing.
    It's amazing how illiterate some designers are."
  created: '2007-04-03 19:12:35'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Pursuant to the comment above mine - I think it's the responsibility of a
    design school to turn out designers who are employable. That means training them
    in design principles, current software, and in relevant technical issues. You
    can't cover everything, but the more a student is prepared to actually enter the
    profession, the better a job they'll get. Schools can't be asked to anticipate
    where the industry will be in the future, but they can do their best to prepare
    their students for the present. \r\n\r\nFor example too many design portfolios
    contain wildly impractical pieces such as books with 6 kinds of paper, metallic
    ink, die-cut, etc etc. This was my biggest problem with the design students I
    interviewed, many of them had little or no practical training. Design is an applied
    art, there is always a client, always a budget. Pretending that isn't so is foolish."
  created: '2007-04-03 19:28:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Back to the fonts.\r\nWhether experience with specific tyefaces/fonts is
    considered intellectual education or software training, students are being short-changed
    if all they've worked with are the Adobe bundle, no matter how good or inexpensive
    those fonts may be."
  created: '2007-04-03 21:08:14'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Aluminum - the best way I know to train someone about ink density is to show
    them the Info Palette in Photoshop, show them how to read the density,  and then
    show them how to achieve a given spec. It's a pretty abstract concept without
    applying it somewhere.\r\n\r\nOnce you know what it is and understand color management,
    then it is something you can implement.\r\n\r\nAnd overarching all this since
    I'm an auto-didact - I agree with Patty and will take it once step farther. I
    don't believe in school at all, not one bit. I believe in studying what drives
    you, not following a curriculum. I have no degree.\r\n\r\nSo there are many ways
    to get where you want to go. My way is looked down by society and many on this
    board (I've had this discussion before).\r\n\r\nFinally, I just wish the grads
    I interview had some clue about what it takes to print something correctly. Because
    so far, they don't. I have heard this complaint from many of my print colleagues.\r\n\r\npeace\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-03 21:09:55'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I agree with Nick if we are considering the larger picture. With student pricing
    in consideration -- as shown in the linked thread above -- it seems to me as if
    students should invest a little bit of that student loan money in a few non-bundled
    fonts.
  created: '2007-04-03 21:20:30'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"For example too many design portfolios contain wildly impractical pieces
    such as books with 6 kinds of paper, metallic ink, die-cut, etc etc. This was
    my biggest problem with the design students I interviewed\"\r\n\r\nI've found
    that there's 3 general groups of design graduates:\r\n\r\n a) the group Patty
    describes. Comes from a respected design program, usually with a BFA. Work tends
    to be highly experimental and conceptual. Strong fine arts influence. Not necessarily
    practical. Student may or may not be technically savvy with the software.\r\n\r\n
    b) Also comes from a respected design program, usually with a BFA. Work tends
    to be more assignment based using more pragmatic scnearios. More emphasis on problem
    solving. Student may or may not be technically savvy with the software.\r\n\r\n\r\n
    c) The 2 or 4 year tech school. Might have a BS. Work tends to be quite bad conceptually
    and practically. Student does typyically have a solid grasp on the software.\r\n\r\nOf
    those, people from A or B tend to be the best hires for design work. Both have
    slightly different strengths, but, in the end, tend to make solid designers.\r\n\r\nGroup
    C never quite catches up, as they simply haven't had a solid  foundation of art
    and design theory and history courses. Their skillset ONLY encompasses the ins
    and outs of a particular set of software apps. They may make decent production
    artists, but not terribly great designers. \r\n\r\nOf course, there's exceptions
    to all 3 of those groups, but, in general, that's how I see it...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-03 22:05:58'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"My way is looked down by society and many on this board (I\u2019ve had
    this discussion before).\"\r\n\r\nI do mainly web work these days, and by far,
    the most intelligent, creative web developers I've met have had degress in:\r\n\r\n
    - Classical Music Composition\r\n - Painting\r\n - Geology\r\n\r\nOne gripe I
    had in the past with a lot of design firms was their insistence that every hire
    have a minimum 4-year design degree. That really limits your potential pool. In
    the end, you want to work with good thinkers more than anything.\r\n\r\nSo, yea,
    I'm with you on that. ;o)"
  created: '2007-04-03 22:11:01'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Adobe is clever. They practically give away fonts in the Educational pack
    (less than $1 a font, I think). Other foundries are offering 20 and 30% discounts
    for students. Not in the same league.\r\n\r\nThe result is that the graduating
    student thinks first of Adobe, having worked with quality Adobe products and crap
    (sometimes/often) free web fonts while in school. So where does he/she look first
    when later specing and buying fonts?\r\n\r\nThe independent font producers might
    be wise to collaborate on a $99 package with 100 or more quality indie fonts.
    Then a school can make that a requirement, perhaps for second year students, who
    will be ready to expand their typographic horizons a bit.\r\n\r\nSuggesting that
    students buy individual fonts won't work. Good instruction works best if the students
    are on the same page with the same options. A teacher might assign a student to
    choose a good indie font, and 98% of students will come up with a web freebie,
    or a warez version of a commercial face.\r\n\r\nPractically giving away the fonts
    to students now will result in sales later on.\r\n\r\n<climbing down off that
    high horse>"
  created: '2007-04-04 14:47:17'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Not a bad idea, Don!
  created: '2007-04-04 15:57:22'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Adobe is clever. They practically give away fonts in the Educational pack
    (less than $1 a font, I think). Other foundries are offering 20 and 30% discounts
    for students. Not in the same league.\r\n\r\n\r\nPlease bear in mind that Adobe
    isn't like ITC, Linotype etc etc. That said -- Type Foundry.   However, they need
    to be like ITC, Linotype!!! That said -- more fonts + huge type dept!!!"
  created: '2007-04-04 18:10:42'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "I just wanted to point something out about design school. I just graduated
    with a BDes from OCAD and had to take a full range of courses besides my main
    design ones in order to be eligiable for a degree as said by the government. I
    took geology, physc, history, english and math as well as several liberal studies
    courses.\r\n\r\nMy biggest gripe was not being able to take art/trade based classes
    such as letterpress because of the harsh distinction between art and design.\r\n\r\nAlso
    we were all trained on Adobe Software."
  created: '2007-04-04 21:14:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "it's all very well to talk about design as problem solving, but it's hard
    to think with your hands if you don't get some real dirt on them.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.marketingmag.ca/magazine/current/opinion/article.jsp?content=20061204_67590_67590"
  created: '2007-04-04 23:07:34'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "I completely agree with your comment.\r\n\r\nAlthough it has nothing to do
    with Kazmer.\r\nAllan Kazmer was going to retire at the end of the semester anyway
    and I like my degree fine. The student uprising that sparked his and the chair
    of advertising's throwing in the towel was about us not wanting to do a thesis.
    It had nothing to do with lack of studio time because of our degrees. I had enough
    time to take art courses, but it was the college who wouldn't let me.\r\nI think
    Kazmer just wanted to make a point and used the situation in an opportunistic
    way.\r\n\r\n(sorry for off-topic-ness)"
  created: '2007-04-05 17:19:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Well, I'm only familiar with the situation through his comments, so thanks
    for the broader perspective.\r\n\r\nThe academicization of art education is a
    general phenomenon, and a sad trend at that -- it's the rock to software training's
    hard place. Erik van Blokland has the right idea -- make your own tools!"
  created: '2007-04-05 17:48:53'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"it\u2019s all very well to talk about design as problem solving, but it\u2019s
    hard to think with your hands if you don\u2019t get some real dirt on them.\"\r\n\r\nI
    agree 100%. That said, I don't think tuition is best spent on teaching HOW to
    get your hands dirty, but, rather, it should teach the REASONS to get your hands
    dirty.\r\n\r\nPerhaps a poor analogy, but if I was going to 'landscapers' school,
    I don't want to spend tuition and classtime on 'learning to use a shovel 101'
    but would prefer 'landscape planting and maintenance 101'. I can figure the shovel
    out by default while learning about the latter."
  created: '2007-04-05 20:23:10'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> What is ink density?  \r\n\r\nMy print experience isn't equal to that of
    others in here, but my understanding of ink density is the total value of ink
    that a CMYK image will have. 230% rings a bell as a common maximum ... which means
    that the total percentage of the four inks should not exceed that amount. It is
    press dependent, and too much ink will result in a crappy look.\r\n\r\nIn the
    old days things like GCR (grey component removal) and UCR (undercolor replacement
    ... or have I mixed up the Rs?) were used by prepress people to get the ink levels
    down. Now the artist has to be the prepress person. (And I'm not sure if you can
    access UCR and GCR in all DTP programs ... it is in Photoshop somewhere.)"
  created: '2007-04-09 19:17:20'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"It is press dependent, and too much ink will result in a crappy look.\"\r\n\r\nAlso
    depends on the paper, how absorbent, how white, how opaque. If the paper is very
    slick and not absorbent then it's desirable to reduce ink density, so it will
    dry in a reasonable time. GCR (gray component replacement) can reduce the total
    ink density while maintaining correct tones."
  created: '2007-04-09 20:03:57'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Patty, I still use Freehand, but only when I have to. It has a very strong
    foothold here in Finland, it was practically THE all-purpose application for years.
    I've even seen annual reports done completely with Freehand. I have a client who
    has hundreds of regularily updated packaging designs stored, all done in Freehand
    (Mac). I did a design for them recently and asked if I could use Illustrator,
    but apparently that's a no-no. I don't know what they're going to do when their
    old PowerPC Macs need upgrading into Intel Macs and the old friend Freehand doesn't
    work anymore.\r\nI started with Illustrator, but since Freehand was so popular
    here, switched over to it in early 90's. Then it was PageMaker and Freehand until
    InDesign came along \u2013 QuarkXpress was the expensive and less common option
    here. The final initative for me to get to know Illustrator again was the Adobe-Macromedia
    deal and the knowledge that Freehand will be forgotten soon.\r\nI'd like to add,
    that one thing I really dislike in Freehand is that it doesn't support OT fonts.
    One gets spoiled with CS2."
  created: '2007-04-09 20:22:37'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "> What is ink density?\r\n\r\nIn cmyk it is the total of the 4 inks. In grayscale
    it is the blackness of the black for lack of a better description.\r\n\r\nIt is
    also known as DMAX, TAC (total area coverage), Total Ink.\r\n\r\nIn glossy magazines
    it is almost always 300%.\r\n\r\nIn newsprint it ranges from 220%-240%. Usually.\r\n\r\nSo
    the default black in Photoshop if you are using SWOP (v2) in your colorspace it
    will be:\r\n75-68-67-90\r\n\r\nAdd them together you get 300% since the ink density
    max in that profile is 300%.\r\n\r\nIt's a crappy black mixture but that is another
    topic.\r\n\r\nIt becomes critical in newsprint. The way to get there is color
    management.\r\n\r\nTo check it I set the second color readout in the Info Palette
    in PS to Total Ink. Running almost any tool then will give you the density in
    any given section.\r\n\r\nDifferent media can accept different amounts of ink
    basically. If you short something you're not getting as much as you can from a
    print job - if you put too much ink you'll end up with a pile of mud. If you learn
    how to use color management and profiles printing quality stuff will be a lot
    easier.\r\n\r\nIt pays to learn some of this production stuff. More and more companies
    are cracking down on designers to learn this so they don't have to hire color
    correctors, separators, etc\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-04-09 20:52:52'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The independent font producers might be wise to collaborate on a $99
    package with 100 or more quality indie fonts. Then a school can make that a requirement,
    perhaps for second year students, who will be ready to expand their typographic
    horizons a bit.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis has been brought up previously; the big problem
    is getting someone to herd the cats into agreeing on a EULA. Still, it\u2019s
    something I intend to pursue eventually\u2014either this summer if my workload
    is light, after graduation otherwise."
  created: '2007-04-09 21:14:57'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Quote: \"Now the artist has to be the prepress person.\"\r\n\r\nProgress
    is our friend here. Adobe's new Print Engine technology will take care of that.
    Using an all RGB-workflow and the new PDF-definition will place all of the responsibility
    for plate and print back where it belongs: in the press room."
  created: '2007-04-10 11:59:00'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Paul,\r\n\r\nExactly why I like book publishing - even when they've decided
    the Art Director's position is dispensible they always have a staff production
    person. I've picked up a lot of useful production info over the years and certainly
    know how to set up a file, but when I have a client who asks/expects me to do
    that part of the job I automatically double my fee hoping to scare them off. Or
    at least bleed them dry."
  created: '2007-04-10 15:45:43'
- author:
    name: Beta
    picture: 111410
  body: "Thank you for all of your thoughtful comments. \r\n\r\nI agree that teaching
    underlying design principles is critical, but I do not think that devalues the
    teaching of the current digital tools of the trade. I require my Type I students
    to do concept development with pencil and paper. We spend a lot of time learning
    to draw type by hand, analyzing thumbnails and roughs, before going to the computer
    lab for production. \r\n\r\nIn my more software-oriented Desktop Publishing class,
    I integrate teaching software features with design principles and practices. Examples:
    setting up a well-constructed grid on a Master Page or using Style Sheets and
    Baseline Grid to teach the importance of consistent formatting. \r\n\r\nI am happy
    if my beginners learn typographic measurement, terminology and can classify type
    into the major historical groups.  If they can recognise Baskerville, they will
    be able to work with Mrs. Eaves when the time comes. With a little luck they will
    learn to see like artists, with even more luck, some of my love for the Roman
    alphabet will rub off.\r\n\r\nThe employment ads on the Creative Hotlist make
    interesting reading.  We have limited time with our students, but the bar for
    entry into the better design jobs continues to be raised. We are teaching a new
    generation, more oriented to Google and MySpace than reading newspapers or textbooks.
    \r\n\r\nBack to the original question, I often remind myself that we have more
    typefaces available to us than ever in the history of printing. The typographers
    of the past managed to do stellar work with whatever lead type was available.
    They could scarcely have imagined the riches we take for granted in our font menus."
  created: '2007-04-10 15:56:57'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Bonnie - totally agree with you. What good are principles if you can't execute
    them?\r\n\r\nPatty - my stuff goes into hundreds of publications in America and
    Canada. There is no way I can have a relationship with all the different printers
    so I had to get good at establishing medians for different media. I have to know
    things like quarter tones will slaughter you in newsprint.\r\n\r\nI enjoy this
    part, an endless slog but pleasantly arcane.\r\n\r\nAnd bert - I hope you're right
    but the promised land has been discovered before - it was called color management
    and all it did was confuse most people. It's a messy affair.\r\n\r\nI have a feeling
    it will just get more complicated.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-04-10 16:03:37'
date: '2007-03-28 22:40:44'
title: Adobe CS3 Design Premium Fonts

---
