---
author:
  name: fallenartist
  picture: 111868
body: "How could you reply to a client claiming that he chose Arial because it is
  easy to read and most of his readers have eyesight problems? Please help. The more
  professional looking sources the better.\r\n\r\n__\r\nAL"
comments:
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Unfortunately, this is a subject of much controversy and claims of a research
    basis, when no decisive research exists. \r\n\r\nI think you can take two tacks
    on this. The first is to refer to actual large print books published for adults
    with visions problems. \r\n\r\nAccording to <a href=\"http://www.gale.com/thorndike/about.htm\">this</a>,
    the world's leading publisher of large print books publishes their books in 16
    point Plantin type with black ink on high opacity paper. In my view, the responsiveness
    of the market is probably the best test that exists now, and may influence your
    client.   \r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.galeschools.com/thorndike/research.htm\">Here</a>
    is a reference to some research on large print. This is a biassed source, as they
    are selling large print books to kids, but still it is worth something. They also
    prefer seriffed fonts. \r\n\r\nThe 'research' on Tiresias claims the people self-report
    san serifs as being more legible. This 'research' is <a href=\"http://screenfont.ca/fonts/today/Tiresias/\">very
    controversial</a> and personally I think is completely unreliable as relates to
    print.\r\n\r\nThe other tack to take on this is to report the way typographers
    and type designers approach this, and their distinctions. Many distinguish between
    legibility and readability generally. Legibility is the ability to distinguish
    one letter from another. This is critical for signage. \r\n\r\nReabability has
    to do with ease of absorbing the message in extended text. The reality is that
    a very small amount of extended text is done in san-serif fonts, even though they
    are extensively used in titles and short copy. Hence by the test of what is actually
    done in print Ariel doesn't hold up. \r\n\r\nTypographers and type designers also
    distinguish between display and text fonts, and between fonts for screen and fonts
    for print. Arial can work as a display font and as a screen font. As a screen
    font it has been heavily 'hinted' so that its apprearance is actually very different
    from in print. \r\n\r\nThe best way to show that Arial is a bad text font--and
    I think it's just awful--is to put say Plantin or any other classic text font
    and Arial at the same copy in the same space. \r\n\r\nI recently had the following
    experience. Someone showed me a report in Arial. I said it would be better in
    Georgia. So I printed it out in the same format. She said, 'Arial looks more clear
    to me.' (It's what she always used.) Then I said, \"Try reading it.\" She said
    something like: \"Oh, yeah, it is smoother.\" \r\n\r\nTo me your main convincers
    are 1. What is actually done today with large print books, and 2. To do two or
    more settings of the same material, and actually have the client try to read it--not
    just look at it. If that doesn't convince then I think you're out of luck.\r\n "
  created: '2007-03-29 17:12:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Depends where the reading is being done. On screen, especially in non-anti-aliased
    contexts Arial is esy to read, especially at the smaller sizes.
  created: '2007-03-29 17:40:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Arial is esy to read\r\n\r\nThough not so easy as to catch one's own typos
    :)\r\n\r\nIt is a question of 'compared to what': screen Arial is EASIER to read
    than many fonts for screen, but it is also much HARDER to read in extended text
    than any of the widely used seriffed text fonts in print on paper. "
  created: '2007-03-29 17:49:05'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I was really just offering a possible explanation for the clients confusion.\r\n\r\n>Though
    not so easy as to catch one\u2019s own typos :)\r\n\r\nOn my machine it seems
    to be using Courier for comments. Arial would be a better choice ;-)"
  created: '2007-03-29 17:59:28'
- author:
    name: fallenartist
    picture: 111868
  body: "Thanks William,\r\n\r\nActually it's all about (<cite>edit:</cite> printed)
    application forms and my first proposal was set in Myriad Pro which is narrower
    and definitely easier to read. After my client's previous e-mail with request
    \"please could you change the font to Arial\" I tried to explain the matter and
    even linked to Mark Simonson's article on Arial. But after my client's last message
    <cite>\"we have opted for Arial as it easy to read, and apparently is the choice
    font for people with eyesight problems (a lot of our clients are the older generation)\"</cite>
    I feel helpless. I don't care if the forms are in whatever typeface as it's not
    my most important project but would like to somehow politely make my client concious
    of being wrong.\r\n\r\n_______\r\n AL\r\n<a href=http://www.lenart.pl>lenart.pl</a>"
  created: '2007-03-29 18:03:38'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Set it in Helv or AG and send it back :-)  '
  created: '2007-03-29 18:06:28'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Microsoft's own research backs up the idea that Arial is inferior to Verdana
    and Georgia for readability. fwiw.
  created: '2007-03-29 18:08:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The \"font of choice\" is a factual question, and I think that the links
    I give above show clearly that Arial is not the font of choice for those with
    eyesight problems. You can ask your client where he heard this, and give him the
    links. The large print movement I believe started in England, and you can probably
    find links there. Or just go to any library and pick the large print books off
    the shelf. I doubt you'll find a one in Arial.  \r\n\r\nWhether there is a significant
    difference between Myriad and Arial for a form, I don't know. If the texts are
    very short, the questions of layout may be much more important. \r\n\r\nBut on
    the 'font of choice' for print for those with vision difficulties your client
    is just misinformed. "
  created: '2007-03-29 18:12:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Being a member of the \"older generation\" and a long-time trifocal wearer,
    I certainly don't find Arial easier to read than any number of other faces. Myriad,
    Verdana, and Georgia clearly read better to me as do hundreds of others both serifed
    and sans. Looks like your client is not interested in finding the real answer
    unless it is his own.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-29 18:31:40'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Arial was recommended on the RNIB website as a good choice, it no longer
    recommends one particular typeface over another, this could be their source, alternatively
    that information has been repeated on other sites. That information seemed to
    be based on the bundled typefaces available on a pc rather than any wider research.\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand if the client has requested it, a form would seem to be the best
    use for Arial, presuming that there isn\u2019t a great deal of running text. \r\n\r\n>narrower
    and definitely easier to read\r\nWhile I would accept that Myriad might be easier
    to read, narrower might not be a key point to mention to a client who is considering
    the readability of typefaces.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-03-29 18:38:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Still recommended...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.rnib.org.uk/xpedio/groups/public/documents/PublicWebsite/public_acinfaqs.hcsp "
  created: '2007-03-29 18:56:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">recommended\r\n\r\nHere is what they say:\r\n\r\n\"As a general rule, stick
    to typefaces that people are familiar with and will recognise easily, like Arial.
    Avoid italic, simulated handwriting and ornate typefaces as these can be difficult
    to read.\"\r\n\r\nThat is not a special endorsement of Arial, but a recommendation
    of anything familiar and not too ornate, like italic and handwriting fonts. \r\n\r\nIt
    is unfortunate that they mention only Arial. While it is, as you say, Si, a relatively
    good screen font, there is no evidence that it is better as printed text. And
    the market place in large print books for those with limited vision goes for serif
    fonts. \r\n\r\nOn the RNIB site they mention several teachers producing their
    own large print books in Arial. It is clear that many people in the UK think Arial
    has some special readability in print. This is unfortunate as there is zero evidence
    as to this. \r\n\r\nSi, do you think that Arial is significantly better for printed
    text than Plantin? Significantly worse? No difference? "
  created: '2007-03-29 19:06:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "This is from the link Si points to:\r\n\"As a general rule, stick to typefaces
    that people are familiar with and will recognise easily, like Arial. Avoid italic,
    simulated handwriting and ornate typefaces as these can be difficult to read.\"\r\n\r\nThis
    does not seem to recomend only Arial. It just says \"familiar with ...like Arial\".\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-29 19:06:34'
- author:
    name: fallenartist
    picture: 111868
  body: "Tim, by saying narrower I meant the size of the font can be bigger. I guess
    7 pt Myriad instead of 6 pt Arial is an obious choice.\r\n\r\n_______\r\n AL\r\n<a
    href=http://www.lenart.pl>lenart.pl</a>"
  created: '2007-03-29 19:17:06'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">Still recommended\u2026\r\nI should have known it might be still in there
    somewhere, my search failed to find it. Although I remember another section that
    recommended Arial over Times New Roman, which was partly the reason I feel they
    were based on pc bundled typefaces.\r\n\r\n>It is clear that many people in the
    UK think Arial has some special readability in print. \r\nUntrue and based on
    a similar lack of evidence.\r\n\r\nIf the users of the form have a problem with
    reading due to poor eyesight I doubt that 7pt Myriad or 6pt Arial will do them
    any favours.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-03-29 20:00:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Untrue and based on a similar lack of evidence.\r\n\r\nI may be mistaken,
    but we have just seen significant evidence. RNIB had recommended it according
    to you, and still mentions it favorably. That means that significant numbers of
    those attentive to issues of limited sight in the UK have a positive view of Arial.
    The three teachers they mention on the site also using Arial in self-produced
    large print books is also evidence. Also Aleksander's client. As none of these
    have got it from deep study of the issue, it means that there is something of
    an 'urban legend' going on. I see these facts, few though they are, as significant
    evidence of a legend. \r\n\r\nWhy do you say it is untrue?\r\n\r\nAlso there is
    a temptation in those who haven't tried it to think that in general sans must
    be more legible, because they are simpler. I have seen this again and again, such
    as in my friend who preferred Arial until she actually tried a side-by-side test
    in reading. "
  created: '2007-03-29 20:21:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Also there is a temptation in those who haven\u2019t tried it to think
    that in general sans must be more legible, because they are simpler.\"\r\n\r\nSans
    vs Serif is not the issue here. This can open up yet another round of that too
    often refought battle and not help resolve the issue at hand. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-29 20:48:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">This does not seem to recomend only Arial. \r\n\r\nDon't have time to look
    through all 93 (or is that 24) referenes to Arial on the RNIB site... \r\n\r\nhttp://search.msn.com/results.aspx?q=site:www.rnib.org.uk+RNIB+arial&lf=0&rf=0&FORM=MSRE\r\n\r\n;-)"
  created: '2007-03-29 21:15:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Si, I found an outright recommendation:\r\n\r\n\"reproduced in a clear sans-serif
    typeface, such as Arial or Helvetica, \twith a font size of at least 14 points
    (i.e. the same size as this text) \" \r\n\r\nThis is in a document called \"Accessible
    formats for older people with sight problems.\" \r\n\r\nAgain, so far as I know
    this is a myth. \r\n\r\n>Sans vs Serif is not the issue\r\n\r\nChris, I do think
    this is part of the issue. The legend of the readability of Arial is because it
    has been the most accessible sans on most people's computers for a long time.
    \r\n\r\nThere does seem to be good evidence that large print is helpful to the
    visually impaired, but none as far as sans vs serif. And certainly not as to whether
    Arial in particular is good.  \r\n\r\nI tend toward the view that serifs are generally
    better for print text, but the fact is that research hasn't decided the issue.
    \r\n\r\nFor the RNIB to propagate this is not responsible, in my opinion, and
    maybe some of you Brits can set them straight as to the state of the research--and
    the fact that large-print books are generally in seriffed type, it seems by popular
    demand. "
  created: '2007-03-29 21:40:34'
- author:
    name: sihep
    picture: 112339
  body: Saw a lecture by one of the most 'professional sources' on readability, Gerard
    Unger, at the London Typographic Circle a few years ago. In the context of work
    for a Dutch newspaper he compared Helvetica letterforms (closed shapes) and Frutiger
    (open shapes) to guests at a party who hadn't been introduced properly. Helvetica
    was an awkward "Hey, do you think we should join together and form words?", "I
    don't know shall we? Maybe we should, maybe we shouldn't, I don't really know."
    and with Frutiger it was "Yes, let's all get together and form words! That would
    be great!". So if your client is insisting on a sans maybe get them to compare
    reading Arial with reading the same thing in Frutiger or anything else with a
    'open' shapes.
  created: '2007-03-30 00:35:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Gerard Unger ...Helvetica letterforms (closed shapes) and Frutiger (open
    shapes)\r\n\r\nHere you are getting into subtleties that typographers and type
    designers find quite important. But none of this has been scientifically tested,
    that I am aware of. \r\n\r\nPersonally, my take on the relative unreadablity of
    Arial and Helvetica as text vs the better readability of Unger's sans faces is
    not only the openness, but also that they are oval rather than round. This changes
    the way they can space together. \r\n\r\nI very much look forward to reading Unger's
    book on readability, which is about to come out in English. \r\n\r\nBut at the
    same time we have public institutions like the RNIB ignorant of both the state
    of the science and the practitioners' lore. And not only do they not know about
    these things, but they propagate what is very likely false information :( "
  created: '2007-03-30 01:12:02'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>...my client\u2019s last message \u201Cwe have opted for Arial as it
    easy to read, and apparently is the choice font for people with eyesight problems
    (a lot of our clients are the older generation)\u201D I feel helpless. I don\u2019t
    care if the forms are in whatever typeface as it\u2019s not my most important
    project but would like to somehow politely make my client concious of being wrong.</cite>\r\n\r\nUnless
    you really need the money, just send the client an email telling them that you\u2019re
    dropping the job. Explain that they clearly know how the job needs to be done,
    so there\u2019s no need for your expertise, and that they should handle the design
    themselves. If that doesn\u2019t make them see their error, little else is likely
    to. "
  created: '2007-03-30 04:34:45'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "The critical point of this thread seems to me to be is Arial or Myriad, at
    6 or 7 point respectively, capable of working in the situation of a form? I am
    inclined to think that although the difference might be significant the overall
    effect would be the same \u2013 that some readers will find it difficult to read
    and complete the form. Perhaps the most significant area to advise a change of
    typeface at this size is the similar forms of some numerals, if they are required
    in the form.\r\n\r\nWilliam, I found the conclusion (that many people believed
    Arial was endowed with some special readability quality) that you drew, joined
    too few dots for me to agree. I agree that the effect of RNIB\u2019s advice is
    wrong, which is why I mentioned it, following a similar thread I wrote to RNIB
    asking about the sources for their advice, I did not receive a reply, however
    I don\u2019t believe that they would give the recommendation based on no evidence
    whether or not it has any genuine research behind it. There are situations where
    a sans performs better than a serif and for people with some kinds of impairment
    there is belief and user-evidence that serifs hinder the reader, I believe that
    the effect is that a lowest common denominator (even if it is inaccurate) has
    been applied. As I said before the typefaces mentioned by RNIB seem restricted
    to bundled system fonts and the advice is aimed at giving non-designers best practice
    guidelines to produce letters, communications etc. unfortunately non-designers
    insist that this advice is followed in print and without contrary evidence (or
    even a respected national organisation offering opposing advice) there is sometimes
    no alternative but to follow their instructions.\r\n\r\nI cannot find any authoratitive
    information that Aleksander can show his client, maybe this will offer some help.\r\nhttp://www.textmatters.com/our_interests/guidelines/typog_visual_impaired/\r\n\r\n>dropping
    the job\r\nNot really a practical solution\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-03-30 08:42:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I don\u2019t believe that they would give the recommendation based on no
    evidence whether or not it has any genuine research behind it\r\n\r\nTim, I wish
    I could say that I am being unreasonably cynical here. But my experience is whereever
    there is evidence to support their viewpoint, people will make a point of quoting
    it. Indeed people often even claim support from evidence when there is none.\r\n\r\nI
    commend you for contacting the RNIB about the issue. If you involve others, such
    as those teaching typography at Reading, I suspect they will be more forthcoming.
    The fact that they did not reply reinforces my suspicion that they are expressing
    an opinion not backed by any kind of testing, scientific or not.  \r\n\r\nI find
    it very plausible that they would jump to the conclusion that because sans are
    simpler they are more readable, because I have seen it often, such as the case
    of the friend I mentioned.  \r\n\r\nThe 'text matters' guidelines are puzzling
    because they contradict the RNIB guidelines while refering the them as an authority.
    Also they do not mention the critical importance of large--generally greater than
    12 pt--type for the visually impaired. Large type size seems to be the only thing
    that is really well established as important for the visually impaired. I say
    this not because of any scientific paper, but simply that large print books are
    evidently very widely used by the visually impaired. If type size weren't important
    for this population they wouldn't use the large-print books. "
  created: '2007-03-30 12:58:26'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "The Text Matters article continues over several pages, the next page makes
    mention of the size issue, again referring to RNIB.\r\n\r\nThis document (similar
    to the one you quoted does include some reference to further reading and legal
    requirements)\r\nhttp://www.rnib.co.uk/xpedio/groups/public/documents/PublicWebsite/public_progressinsighttext.txt\r\n\r\nThe
    Lighthouse link brings up this, again not conclusive or based on quoted research.\r\nhttp://www.lighthouse.org/print_leg.htm\r\n\r\nMy
    cynicism needs more work :)\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-03-30 13:27:53'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I believe I read somewhere, typically I cannot find it now, that Bruno Maag
    was involved in some research in this subject. There is a pdf link from the Dalton
    Maag website, which is specifically to do with type and signage at the Olympics,
    it seems he shares your cynicism abut typeface choice.\r\nhttp://www.daltonmaag.com/news/32.html\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-03-30 13:48:54'
- author:
    name: fallenartist
    picture: 111868
  body: "With Photoshop Lens Blur tool you can do your own \"research\". I used same
    blur settings for both text samples:\r\n\r\nArial, tracking 25\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arial_5597.gif]
    [img:sites/default/files/old-images/arial_blur_5314.gif] [img:sites/default/files/old-images/arial_blur_light_3694.gif]\r\n--\r\n\r\nMyriad
    Pro, tracking 25\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/myriad_5323.gif] [img:sites/default/files/old-images/myriad_blur_6725.gif]
    [img:sites/default/files/old-images/myriad_blur_light_3682.gif]\r\n\r\n_______\r\n
    AL\r\n<a href=http://www.lenart.pl>lenart.pl</a>"
  created: '2007-03-30 14:40:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Our center for dissabilities assistance uses Lighthouse as a sourse. Here
    is a snip from their recomendations for low vision users:\r\n\"Avoid complicated,
    decorative or cursive fonts and, when they must be used, reserve them for emphasis
    only. Standard serif or sans-serif fonts, with familiar, easily recognizable characters
    are best. Also, there is some evidence that sans-serif fonts are more legible
    when character size is small relative to the reader\u2019s visual acuity.\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-30 14:40:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The Lighthough guidelines, unlike the RNIB ones, make excellent sense to
    me. \r\n\r\nEven that small sans are better for deciphering (slowly) than small
    serifs makes sense. But as they say, the key thing is large letters and high contrast.
    Once the letters are large enough to read, rather than simply decipher, I would
    suspect that the same preference for serifed faces in extended text holds as in
    the normally sighted world. \r\n\r\nThe best testing on legibility that I know
    of has been for <a href=\"http://clearviewhwy.com/ResearchAndDesign/index.php\">James
    Montalbano's Clearview Highway font</a>. It went beyond the photoshop blur test,
    and did testing under highway conditions. It does confirm the idea that open counters
    are a plus for legibility, at least for signage.  "
  created: '2007-03-30 16:06:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Low Vision\" is not a sample of the larger normal vision group most of
    us belong to. I would not be too quick to equate findings for one group as valid
    for another. It may or may not be so but it is a stretch to assume as much. The
    Lighthouse for the Blind mentions \"some\" research saying sans serif seems better
    for low vision readers but does not seem to feel there is enough evidense to say
    so outright. I would avoid conclusions about readability/deciphurability extrapolated
    from highway signage research on normal vision readers as being valid with low
    vision readers of printed text until there is some real science in that arena.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-30 16:24:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I would avoid ...extrapolation ...until real science\r\n\r\nI agree, Chris.
    \ The reason I mention the Clearview Highway research is that you can see what
    good tests look like, as opposed to no tests or bogus ones. "
  created: '2007-03-30 16:42:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What I am about to say is not science but a lay mere observation  of but
    two people. I have two longtime friends who developed macular degeneration (they
    don\u2019t know each other). I knew them when they both had healthy vision as
    well. One of them is almost totally blind now and the other is severely limited.
    At some point along there loss of vision path, both of them began needing large-print
    to be able to read. One was an editor and the other an illustrator/graphic designer.
    The graphics person was more cognizant of type than the editor and was able to
    communicate more specifically about it to me. She mentioned specifically liking
    sans serif more as her vision got worse. The editor was less specific. She said
    \u201Cplainer\u201D type was easier for her. Both said they liked more letterspacing
    than before and larger size was a must.\r\nAgain, this is not scientific evidence
    and only addresses observations by two people with only one form of visual impairment.
    I am hoping that some real research is done by trained scientists in this area
    so that the laymen does not make assumptions which may seem logical to them but
    are not in evidence.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-30 16:51:27'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "For what it's worth, I used to work for Reader's Digest where a lot of readers
    are elderly and have impaired vision. (There also is a large print addition of
    the publication as well.) One of the fonts we used was Vectora, because it was
    specifically designed to be read easily at small sizes. <a href=http://www.linotype.com/1577/vectora-family.html#usage>Here's
    some info.</a href>\r\n\r\nIf you want some leverage for switching to another
    face, I'd think about this as an alternative."
  created: '2007-03-30 18:35:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Microsoft\u2019s own research backs up the idea that Arial is inferior
    to Verdana and Georgia for readability. fwiw.\"\r\n\r\nMS's study shows that the
    subject group preferred Verdana until and certain size, and then the subject group
    preferred Arial. Please READ the study, (if you can). If you still believe your
    statement after that, I'd be delighted to change your mind. \r\n\r\nIn this designer's
    case, selecting a font for forms to be filled by older users, size is more important
    than style. The designer, in my opinion, is likely to be destroying their profit
    margin by arguing about it. "
  created: '2007-03-31 12:51:07'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Sorry, not perfect enough:\r\n\r\n\u201CMicrosoft\u2019s own research backs
    up the idea that Arial is inferior to Verdana and Georgia for readability. fwiw.\u201D\r\nMS\u2019s
    study shows that the subject group preferred Verdana until a certain size, and
    then the subject group preferred Arial. Please READ the study, (if you can). If
    you still believe your statement after that, I\u2019d be delighted to change your
    mind.\r\n\r\nIn this designer\u2019s case, selecting a font for forms to be filled
    by older users, size is more important than style. The designer, in my opinion,
    is likely to be destroying their profit margin by arguing about it."
  created: '2007-03-31 12:54:19'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Hi David,\r\nHere is the article I think Thomas is talking about. What study
    are you talking about?\r\n\r\nText Legibility and the Letter Superiority Effect
    \r\nAuthors: Sheedy, James E.; Subbaram, Manoj V.; Zimmerman, Aaron B.; Hayes,
    John R.\r\nSource: Human Factors: The Journal of the Human Factors and Ergonomics
    Society, Volume 47, Number 4, Winter 2005, pp. 797-815(19)\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-31 22:27:27'
- author:
    name: flowersandchocolate
  body: "I saw a lovely comment about legibility which said (and I paraphrase):\r\n\r\n\"Legibility
    is about familiarity. If we want to increase legibility, stop designing new typefaces\"\r\n\r\nI
    suspect there is a lot of truth in this, and of course, if the world were forced
    to choose one typeface, what would it be...\r\n\r\nNo, there are no prizes for
    guesssing.\r\n\r\nI haven't had time to read through the full postings, but my
    suitably cynical view is that Arial is lauded because it's common, and free."
  created: '2007-04-01 18:29:14'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Kevlar: \"What study are you talking about?\" \r\nThe shadey Sheedy study,
    one and the same. \r\n\r\nThis study admits that size is a critical aspect of
    readability, but maketh not attempt to normalize the x-hts of Verdana and Arial
    to the same size when presented to the reader... does it? so, the subjects like
    the smaller sizes of Verdana (because theya re bgger than Arial), and the larger
    sizes of Helvetica (becasue they are smaller than Verdana), now don't they? big
    deal, unless you are interested in the effects of optical scaling, which we are
    not in this study.... \r\n\r\nIn addition, the two fonts are not hinted equally
    and neither is hinted well, (except for WYSIWYG applications). Do you understand
    that? This study was not typographically peer-reviewed and it is of little, bordering
    on no, practical use, except as I have implied, for testing optical scaling, and
    the uses that you might put to it.\r\n\r\nDo you want me to go on to the next
    test? \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\nBerlow\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-01 23:29:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The more professional looking sources the better.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat typographers
    really want, something from a boffin to back up their preferences.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nWith
    that in mind, I think I'll rename my foundry \"Readability Fonts\".\r\nAll the
    fonts are of course designed for readabiity (none for unreadability) and backed
    up with statements from various authorities stating that,\r\n\"Sans serif faces
    are more readable\" (for the sans faces)\r\n\"Serif faces aere more readable\"
    (for the serif faces)\r\n\"large x-height faces are more readable\" (for the large
    x-height faces)\r\n\"small x-height faces are more readable\" (for the small x-height
    faces)\r\n\"scripts are more readable\", and so on.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\nShinn"
  created: '2007-04-02 01:10:41'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "David, I'm sorry you find Sheedy's research inadequate. I think his work
    is excellent. My team has sponsored much of his work and we provide him with research,
    engineering, and typographic consulting.\r\n\r\nI ask that you reread his work
    for I think you missed a few points. Table 1, which takes up much of page 801,
    shows the conversion between point size and the number of pixels of lowercase
    height and uppercase height for each of 6 fonts. He presents data both in terms
    of nominal size and pixels used.\r\n\r\nPage 803: \"Results calibrated to font
    size (FS in Figure 2) show Verdana has the best legibility for both capital letters
    and for words, Times New Roman (TNR) has the worst, and the other two are in between.
    When the results are normalized for letter size (LS in Figure 2), Verdana continues
    to have the best capital letter and lowercase word legibility.\"\r\n\r\nThis work
    is much more interesting than a comparison between typefaces. Sheedy demonstrates
    that letter legibility is greater than word legibility (named the letter superiority
    effect). Lateral inhibition in the retina is the likely cause for this - essentially
    that neighboring letters makes letter feature recognition more difficult.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-02 01:30:12'
- author:
    name: trevhutch
  body: "I'd also be mentioning that Myriad may be a better choice from a branding
    perspective. It may be harder to explain to a client without a design background,
    but to me, Myriad gives an impression of a quality and friendliness moreso than
    Arial. I'd also be looking at whether the use of Arial was consistent with the
    client's other printed materials.\r\n\r\nAnd if my persuasive powers were still
    unaffective, I'd say \"fine, have your Arial!\""
  created: '2007-04-02 07:27:17'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"Sheedy demonstrates that letter legibility is greater than word legibility
    (named the letter superiority effect).\"\r\n\r\nLegibility in the Sheedy study
    amounts to discrimination affordance at thresholds of size. Sheedy demonstrates
    that discrimination affordance at threshold sizes is greater for isolated letters
    than for letters in words. If reading performance is a curve that rises steeply
    from a threshold and than hits a plateau, then these tests say something about
    letter identification at threshold sizes, but nothing about the height of the
    plateau, and it's extent. It might be argued that the plateau is the domain of
    readability and visual wordform resolution affordance.\r\n\r\nThis means that
    the comparison of the four fonts used, Arial, Verdana, Times New Roman and Georgia
    is in terms of relative discrimination affordance at thresholds of size in terms
    of letter identification when letters stand alone and when letters are in the
    context of words.\r\n\r\nIt could be argued that the task (to identify at thresholds)
    forces the subject to revert to a letter by letter processing routine, thus bringing
    into play the inhibitory force of contour interference. (Contour here means somthing
    more like 'adjacent stroke of flanking letter' than what is meant by contour in
    a vector description environment.)\r\n\r\nIf lateral inhibition or contour interaction
    is the likely cause of the poorer performance on words, then the results suggest
    there is an interaction of font and amount of lateral inhibition or contour interaction.
    And this is different when fonts are compared by assigned font size versus absolute
    letter size in pixels!\r\n\r\nAlso, uppercase was used in the isolated conditions
    and lower case was used in the letters in words condition, but the cap height
    was normalized to the height of the lower case x-height in the letter size comparisons."
  created: '2007-04-02 13:35:54'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"we provide him [Prof. Sheedy] with research, engineering, and typographic
    consulting.\"\r\nIs that all? Seriously, you don't supply him with Money, Goals
    and Fonts too?\r\n\r\n\"neighboring letters makes letter feature recognition more
    difficult.\"\r\nThanks, but it is an inevitable consequence of our script and
    language that neighboring letters be there. That letters need to be properly and
    consistently formed, and that words be formed from these kinds of letters is a
    given for me.\r\n\r\nOr can you explain this please?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-02 14:26:49'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "To add to my post above, Sheedy et. al., draws conclusions that appear generalize
    his results concerning thresholds to legibility, readability  and reading as such.\r\n\r\nIn
    terms of the curve mentioned above (rises steeply from a threshold and than hits
    a laterally extended plateau), this is like applying the results calculated at
    the base of the steep rise for one task (letter identification under two conditions)
    to what happens on the plateau for another (visual wordform resolution)! \r\n\r\nSheedy
    of course admits his generalizations require confirmation.\r\n\r\nNote: I encountered
    the steep rise / extended plateau scheme in Denis Pelli's paper \"Reading is crowded\"
    but I don't think it originates with him."
  created: '2007-04-02 14:30:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am curious why the effort was put into studying individual letter recognition.
    There must be some basis that would be strong enough to commit funds to do it?
    Letter-to-letter interaction is always going to happen if we are to create words.
    Comprehension requires it. The grouped letters  may interfere with single glyph
    recognition but aid in word recognition. This would seem like more fruitful ground
    for research rather than the opticians vision test chart. Perhaps Kevin or someone
    involved with the test can explain what the objective of the study was?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-02 15:08:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">The grouped letters may interfere with single glyph recognition but aid
    in word recognition. This would seem like more fruitful ground for research ...\r\n\r\nThat
    has been Peter E's argument in his Paper in Thelessoniki and since in post after
    post on Typophile. It only took me only about a year to understand him :) I see
    you get his idea too. \r\n\r\nKevin has argued that this is not a particularly
    promising line of research, as it contradicts the prevailing parallel letter-processing
    view--what Peter calls 'slot processing'. \r\n\r\nI was initially very skeptical
    of Peter's view, but now I think he's right. "
  created: '2007-04-02 15:53:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...not a particularly promising line of research, as it contradicts the
    prevailing parallel letter-processing view\"\r\n\r\nAll the more reason to investigate
    it! Is there petty politics in research too? I was hoping that scientists had
    more sense than that.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-02 16:04:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Chris, as David notes, one of the problems of scientific research is that
    funding sources tend to prejudice goals and results.\r\n\r\nIn the Microsoft video
    on ClearType, it was revealed that the project was greenlighted by Bill Gates
    on the proviso that measurable results be obtained. That's understandable, the
    boss is an engineer; but it leads to a situation that ties font development to
    reading research in a way where each channels the other, resulting in \"go faster\"
    fonts and the privileging of the contextually-divorced notion of speed as the
    main criterion of readability."
  created: '2007-04-02 16:49:02'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Great responses - \r\n\r\nI'd just like to add one more point for this argument...\r\n\r\nThis
    of course, based on why we study typography to begin with.\r\n\r\nWhen we were
    in school, learning how to read with our primers, we learned to recognize the
    printed LETTER. Most primers from Uncle Remus to Dick and Jane were set in Century
    Schoolbook - with yes, slab serifs -- to help our little eyes grow more accustomed
    to the set word.\r\n\r\nAs we grow older - we find it is still EASIER for reading
    large paragraphs (body text) in a serif typeface.\r\n\r\nMy favorite example of
    this was in a type book - where the same headline - set in both San Serif and
    Serif - were cut in half - and only the top half of the letters shown. 10 out
    of 10 people had no problem figuring out what the words were from the Serif typeface
    -- can't say that about the san serif.\r\n\r\nOh yes, and Arial is definitely
    a San Serif!!! LOL\r\n\r\nCase closed. :)"
  created: '2007-04-02 16:56:34'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "In terms of the topic of the thread, the Sheedy results might lead one to
    say: Yes, Arial might be <em>designed for</em> readability, but in terms of discrimination
    affordances <em>at thresholds of size</em> for <em>normal sighted</em> readers
    it is out-performed by Verdana at both nominal and x-height normalized sizes (more
    for the latter) on letter identification tests.\r\n\r\nWhat might <em>designed
    for</em> mean?\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-02 16:57:48'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Chris asked \u201DI am curious why the effort was put into studying individual
    letter recognition. There must be some basis that would be strong enough to commit
    funds to do it? Letter-to-letter interaction is always going to happen if we are
    to create words. Comprehension requires it.\u201D\r\n\r\nThis project was the
    first of a series that Sheedy has undertaken with the goal of gaining greater
    understanding of legibility. Testing both letters in isolation and letters in
    the context of words was a natural outcome of believing that both are important.
    We were surprised by the letter superiority effect when it showed up in the first
    study. I even asked it the numbers had been accidently switched as the finding
    is counterintuitive since it goes against the word superiority effect. It wasn\u2019t
    until the effect was replicated in further studies that Sheedy realized that this
    was an important finding.\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin"
  created: '2007-04-02 17:31:19'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Peter wrote \u201CIt could be argued that the task (to identify at thresholds)
    forces the subject to revert to a letter by letter processing routine, thus bringing
    into play the inhibitory force of contour interference.\u201D\r\n\r\nSheedy does
    use a threshold size methodology to demonstrate that lowercase letter legibility
    is greater than lowercase word legibility. The crowding effect is certainly more
    pronounced at smaller sizes, but has also been demonstrated to appear at larger
    sizes (e.g. typical eye charts). Peter, your critique is sound, but can you propose
    a way of testing for the existence of an unparsimonious secondary processing routine?
    Your model would be more compelling if it accounted for more of the data in the
    literature.\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin"
  created: '2007-04-02 17:32:33'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Kevin the 'more parsimonious' 'primary' route requires an <em>ad hoc</em>
    post-perceptual-processing work-around with a fairly high computational load (especially
    if wickel-coding is correct), and some highly controversial assumptions--like
    that recognition is mediated by 'abstract' letter codes--to explain an effect
    that might be more economically explained in perceptual processing terms, using
    the notions of 1) the word being a vector over a distinctive pattern of distinctive
    features, and 2) rhythmic spacing inhibiting 'componential abstraction.' (1) is
    an assumption that has not been fully implimented in neural net models, and there
    is some evidence for (2). And 'crowding' (the terms need further refinement) is
    part of the story.\r\n\r\nThe 'if it accounted for more of the data in the literature'
    is a bit of a red herring, since I believe my model accounts for, or is consistent
    with, at least as much of the data in the literature. Only, I have not explicitly
    specified precisely how in relation to each data set. \r\n\r\nSo this needs to
    be more systematically specified, but one and the same data set can support divergent
    conclusions if it doesn't distinguish sufficiently between relevant options, or
    keep them all in play or ubder consideration. This is I think what happens. And
    each account encounters areas of dark matter that it has trouble sorting out.
    Mine is results illcited by cross-case masked priming.\r\n\r\nIndeed, I or we
    need to devise a series of conclusive tests. Bill and others call for this as
    well, and maybe we can come up with some."
  created: '2007-04-02 21:46:07'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" one of the problems of scientific research is that funding sources tend
    to prejudice goals and results.\"\r\n\r\nNo Way! I'm not even gonna go there.
    The place I'm stuck, is here: How can the research into screen reability be correct
    if the fonts are not readable? An interesting problem.\r\n\r\nA new thread. \"Why
    will Johnny no longer want to read?\""
  created: '2007-04-03 13:39:21'
date: '2007-03-29 16:23:36'
title: '"Arial is designed for readability"'

---
