---
author:
  name: James Scriven
body: "Alright this is a plea for help. I've had a terrible time in the past with
  my typography teacher and shes trying to fail me yet again. \r\n\r\nOur project
  this semester is to produce a book on \"survivalism\". . .I have chosen Global Warming.
  I have attached the PDF of my work to point, with her comments. \r\n\r\nIve gotten
  everything together with a general layout, but need to break the \"monotony\" of
  the pages within the book. \r\n\r\nI need to illustrate a visual and typographic
  \"push\" towards a green tommorrow. She want a book appearance but wants it to not
  look like a book. Fun huh. Im asking for some help here as Im in a rut, both emotionally
  with her, and with my creativeness regading the project. \r\n\r\nThanks in advance
  & Cheers. \r\n\r\nJames "
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Did you see <A HREF=\"http://www.comedycentral.com/motherload/player.jhtml?ml_video=84193&ml_collection=&ml_gateway=&ml_gateway_id=&ml_comedian=&ml_runtime=&ml_context=show&ml_origin_url=%2Fshows%2Fthe_daily_show%2Fvideos%2Fmost_recent%2Findex.jhtml&ml_playlist=&lnk=&is_large=true\">John
    Kerry on The Daily Show</A>? Might inspire you...\r\n\r\n250 pages - no pictures"
  created: '2007-03-29 23:02:50'
- author:
    name: Rmpl
  body: "It's difficult to be creative if you're hung up on the prospect of failure.
    \ \r\n\r\nI would say the main problem is that the book is boring to look at.
    \ It's three colors: black, white and green and not much else or anything in between.
    \ A good way to break up the monotony is to create 4 or 5 styles you like and
    divide the book into sections, using a different style in each section.\r\n\r\nIf
    you've ever seen a good coffee table book, they mix it up constantly.  Every page
    is different and fun to look at.  Also, I don't know how much work you've put
    into this project, but it doesn't look like very much.  If I were your teacher
    I wouldn't be impressed.  I'm not saying that to be mean, it's just that to get
    a good grade I think you need to at least make it *look* like you've put a lot
    of thought and effort into it."
  created: '2007-03-29 23:03:07'
- author:
    name: mel77
    picture: 112308
  body: "not sure if this would be of any help but just came to mind when you said
    bout her wanting the appearence of a book but not actually look like a book\r\n\r\ncheck
    out http://www.buro-gds.com/03/index-en.html#\r\nits not to do with your concept
    but may inspire? go to \"special project I AM YOU\"\r\n\r\nalso i like your page
    66 with the green bold lettering, it would be better if you had more of these
    throughout the book, also you could try having the lines running across the whole
    double spread rather than treating the spread as two separate pages like you have,
    another thing could be to have the type size a bit larger and have no margins
    so the type goes right to all edges of the page? can create more visual interest\r\n\r\nanother
    thing you could try to make the spreads a litte more interesting is find like
    a key point from the info on certain spreads and have it kinda like a sub title
    to draw people in...like on the first image.... (sorry image quality is poor as
    its just a scan of a photocopy)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/untitled1_5943.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/iamyou-2_6361.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/untitled2_3800.jpg]"
  created: '2007-03-29 23:22:38'
- author:
    name: Andy B
  body: "I've had a quick glance at the PDF and few things caught my eye: \r\n\r\nFirst
    of all, the margins need some attention. The spine margin is too narrow and once
    bound it will be even worse. Decrease the head margin and increase the foot margin
    too. Also, I think the text block should be larger. After all wouldn't a 'green'
    book try to use less paper?\r\n\r\nAlthough Gill would be impressed, I think the
    text should be justified especially if you continue to use such a small text area.\r\n\r\nI
    agree with your teacher's feedback about the subheads.\r\n\r\nLastly, have a look
    at Bringhurst's <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Elements-Typographic-Style-Robert-Bringhurst/dp/0881791326\">Elements
    of Typographic Style</a> for some good guidelines.\r\n\r\nAll is not lost; your
    overall direction is good. Stick with it and you will get a good outcome."
  created: '2007-03-30 00:19:11'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "This thing needs life. Right now it looks like a boring academic science
    publication. Bring in <a href=\"http://www.jpad.biz/images/breur.pdf\">big, crazy,
    full\u2014bleed images</a>. If you can't bring in images, go with a modular grid
    and start tearing it apart. Use giant pull-quotes. But you have to do something
    to make this compelling, because right now it\u2019s just a perfunctory collection
    of paragraphs slapped into a manuscript grid. Read the note your instructor left
    on page 85. Then go look at what she said about pages 120-121.\r\n\r\nYour teacher
    is very right about those rags. And turn hyphenation OFF. This thing is huge;
    you have all you need to work with, there\u2019s no need for hyphens all over
    the place."
  created: '2007-03-30 04:26:53'
- author:
    name: James Scriven
  body: 'really appreciate the comments. . . I just need a kick in the ass to get
    this Shite moving. I know what I want it to look like, I just spent the majority
    of the preliminary planning just getting the general layout. Ive made all the
    lame rules and now, as James said, I want to rip em apart. Tear em a whole new
    one. Keep it coming. '
  created: '2007-03-30 04:37:53'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: Images, images. You've got so much space in the margins, why not add some
    there? How about serif bold for heads? Also, simple, but keep the lines across
    the pages even so at the bottom they are on the same level. Overall idea nice.
    Follow teacher's advice. Yes, turn off hyphenation. Find some images, even Google
    them, they'd be rough anyway. There must be zillions of them. Since the paper
    is about global warming show some images of the effects of it. Go for it.
  created: '2007-03-30 13:15:03'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Consistent en dashes are required, find and change hyphens with spaces either
    side. The running \u2018heads\u2019 are going to be subject to creep. The appendix
    could be rendered as an information graphic which would help the understanding
    and give an opportunity to flex that part of your brain, although the grid is
    rather nice keeping heading and paras together would be good. CO2 should have
    a subscript 2. Folio page 18 has footnote references in the text but no footnote
    to go with them. Be sure to spell check and to create a consistent style for the
    abbreviations of measurements etc.\r\n\r\nOverall I would consider what your subject
    is about, printing contributes in so many ways to forest predation and global
    warming, should a book on the subject be prepared in a manner that uses the least
    amount of paper, ink and mechanical processes?\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-03-30 14:56:32'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Your teacher is right, unfortunately -- the project is on the bland side.
    But it is not at lost -- body copy typeface is fine -- it's clean and easy on
    the eyes to read (with the few corrections) but the headings -- hey it's okay
    to use a designy typeface - and breath some life into it.\r\n\r\nShe/he has given
    you excellent notes on how to improve your page styles and design.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile,
    please do us a favor - move the page numbers on the running feet over the the
    outside margins - there is a very practical reason for this. Should it ever be
    printed and a reader wants to know what page the are on they can do a simple thumb-through.\r\n\r\nMay
    I make one suggestion before you proceed. Get thee to a library or a book store.
    Open Non-fiction books - pay attention to detail. It is okay to want to do something
    different - and that works well in fiction and coffee table books - but... when
    it is non-fiction, it's a different kind of reader. Actually, it is a reader --
    and not  a picture looker. There is a clarity to how things are placed on pages.
    Yes, it has to do with gutters and safeties... If you were an old time typist
    I'd say margins and tabs...\r\n\r\nThen re-read the teacher's suggestions (neutrally)
    and get back to work. You can do...\r\n\r\n*****RAH RAH RAH**** <--- cheerleading
    section..."
  created: '2007-03-30 15:14:50'
- author:
    name: duncan
    picture: 111159
  body: "Images and/or some kind off graphic elements could really help to bring some
    life to the pages. Something to help the reader understand what they are reading
    about without actually having to read every word on the page.\r\n\r\nYour treatment
    of pages 120-121 could be used in a way similar to the images in mel77's post
    throughout the book to highlight important quotes or titbits of information.\r\n\r\nLot's
    of luck. You can do it."
  children:
  - author:
      name: James Scriven
    body: "Cheers all! ANy ideas on a good pair for Univers?\r\n\r\nThinkng about
      adding a hand written earthy style to it. \r\n\r\nUnderstand for my own sake
      of self worth, this project is far from over. . . "
    created: '2007-03-30 18:09:35'
  created: '2007-03-30 16:10:20'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: James, you should draw attention to any statistics or relevant facts that
    can be quickly read and understood. You should read each page yourself, and find
    the most important bits, and highlight those... You can do "pull quotes" bolder/larger/different
    type... etc. The ultimate job of good typography is to communicate (IMO). Page
    after page of a block of body copy will not inspire anyone enough to want to read
    it. Get away from a formatting/layout mindset, and get into a commication mindset.
    Hope that helps...
  created: '2007-03-30 18:27:53'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "The problems here (and there are plenty) begin and end with the first lines
    of your post: \"Alright this is a plea for help. I\u2019ve had a terrible time
    in the past with my typography teacher and shes trying to fail me yet again.\"\r\n\r\n<em>Trying</em>
    to fail you? Come on...\r\n\r\nYour instructor's comments are all on the mark,
    but, if anything, she's far too generous and forgiving. It seems to me you haven't
    asked the basic questions and so you're here looking for others to supply you
    with easy answers; in short, you're looking for someone else to do your work for
    you.\r\n\r\n<em>That's</em> the problem. The rest is just lazy typography.\r\n\r\nI
    don't mean to be a complete jerk here, but you seem to want the result without
    the process, and the process involves study, patience and a sense of exploration.
    Univers for an environmentally conscious document? Why? It's cold and hard and
    lifeless: how is that supposed to convey an environmentally conscious perspective?
    Nature's messy, lush, rich, diverse, yet the design here is the opposite: hard,
    cold, clean, rigid, narrow.\r\n\r\nI don't know what your guidelines were: perhaps
    you had to use this font, perhaps only one font, but even in that case there's
    plenty of room to create a sense of growth and movement; you've done that well
    with the elements bleeding off the page, but it's not enough (and it's not done
    all that well -- the \"H\" on page 3 is bled proportionally far more than the
    larger \"H\" on page 5, etc...).\r\n\r\nMy point is simply that the design <em>looks</em>
    the way you say you <em>feel</em>, and how can anything work under those conditions?\r\n\r\nYour
    content isn't just stuff to rigidly arrange on the page, it needs a <em>voice</em>,
    a personality, a sense of identity, yet at the moment it's just lines and curves
    nailed into place. Have some fun, take a few risks, but do so with a firm understanding
    of typographic rhythm and tone. And if you don't know what I mean by that you
    need to read Bringhurst 5 or 6 more times."
  created: '2007-03-31 00:34:17'
- author:
    name: James Scriven
  body: "Jason thanks I appreciate it, I write without thinking regarding posts, its
    not over, im just looking for some outside information. This class is not even
    half over and she wants to kick me out . . . not what im looking for in a design
    teacher. Your last paragraph inspires me. . . cheers you asshole :) Im not loooking
    for answers and for someone to give me the idea, just some more outside inspiration.
    And thanks to everyone here, I have gotten just that and feel good about my continued
    work on this project. Like I said before, I just need a good kick in the ass.
    \r\n\r\n~James"
  created: '2007-03-31 02:46:39'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: James, I'm glad to hear you took something useful from my post; I woke up
    this morning worried I'd come down a bit too hard -- by mid-term most of my students
    want to slash my tires, but by the end of term they're often quite impressed with
    what they've accomplished. My point is take your teacher's attitude as a challenge,
    not a deterant; see it as an opportunity to see what you're made of, which is
    often an anxiety-ridden experiment. In the end, though, the idea is that the grade
    in your class will be irrelevant, the important thing (for yourself) will be to
    know that you didn't back down or give up.
  created: '2007-03-31 18:25:37'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "Maybe your teacher had just finished watching <a href=\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XttV2C6B8pU\">The
    Great Global Warming Swindle</a>?\r\n\r\nIf the book is intended to persuade towards
    a greener tomorrow how about a layout and colour scheme that changes as you advance
    through the book?\r\n\r\nThe pages could start off dull with browns/ yellows/
    greys, sloppy grid placement/ typography, etc. & as the book advances everything
    changes?\r\n\r\nYou could try a more suddle approach to this in a million different
    ways.\r\n\r\nIf you need inspiration on the design i would go look at the flyers
    or menus at any starbucks, roebucks, or jamba juice. Starbucks always has some
    enviro flyers about recycling or comminity or nutrition. Jamba and Roebucks have
    plenty of brochures on their nutrition benefits packed full of colours and images."
  created: '2007-04-01 12:29:28'
- author:
    name: James Scriven
  body: 'Like the ideas, thanks chief. '
  created: '2007-04-01 15:26:29'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: So James, if you use Jesse's ideas, will he get credit on your schoolwork?
    Maybe your prof can give both of you a grade or something.
  children:
  - author:
      name: James Scriven
    body: 'Wish i could sense your tone, cause if its sarcastic you can bugger off. '
    created: '2007-04-01 17:52:50'
  created: '2007-04-01 17:01:04'
- author:
    name: sayerhs
    picture: 112341
  body: "Might have been mentioned many times till now, but--\r\n>images!!!!! there
    is so much of text that i had to force myself to get through the whole thing.
    And i wasnt even reading it.\r\n>the single grid layout isnt working.And im not
    sure if The left aligned text on BOTH pages works. If ur doing a double spread,
    try and get the composition to 'come together'. Right now the rags on the left
    pages combined with the right page's margin just look bad.\r\n>you need to fix
    the rags. Theyr just \"ouch\".\r\n>I think ur prof has given you some pretty good
    feedback on your work. And if as u say, the course is only half done, then theres
    enough time to fix the damage.\r\ni agree with jason. It just looks like uv been
    lazy.I dnt see why ur prof shouldnt threaten u with the possibility of kicking
    u out of class. Instead of cribbing abt how unfair he/she is, show him/her that
    u CAN do much better than this. Thats probably what shes expexting from you.\r\n>pssst...have
    a look at \"the art of looking sideways\" by Alan Fletcher.\r\n\r\nFreak out man.
    College is the only time ull evergetto do crazy stuff under the pretext of learning.\r\n\r\nBest
    of luck\r\nshreyas"
  created: '2007-04-01 17:42:23'
- author:
    name: sayerhs
    picture: 112341
  body: ">>Wish i could sense your tone, cause if its sarcastic you can bugger off.\r\nYou
    asked for help. You got help. If you cant take criticism you're the one who ought
    to bugger off\r\n\r\nshreyas"
  created: '2007-04-01 18:13:50'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: 'Criticism is only useful when it''s grounded in a sense of encouragement;
    that is, when the purpose is to motivate. The same goes for the ability to accept
    criticism: the recipient needs to focus only on those aspects which are useful
    (not that this is a simple thing to do). If either side of this equation goes
    even a bit screwy, it all becomes personal and pointless, and the first sign that
    it''s gotten personal is when words like "bugger off" come into play. "Bugger
    off" just means "please refrain from being cruel," but it can quickly also mean
    "I give up." James, don''t let it become the latter. Trust that any advice you
    get is meant to provide help: sometimes it''s easy to see how it''s helpful, sometimes
    it''s difficult, but a large part of what all of us do is turn difficult tasks
    into meaningful solutions, or in this case, uncomfortable feedback into constructive
    purpose.'
  created: '2007-04-01 18:33:20'
- author:
    name: James Scriven
  body: "Ive gotten lots of great help and I cant thank you all enough, none from
    you Ricardo. . . Sayerhs that wasnt directed at you at all, and its my mistake
    for posting it directly after yours, of course you helped, and I appreciate your
    effort, I was referring to the waste of a post above you. Cheers mate. \r\n\r\nIve
    gotten plenty of harsh crits, and i love them and accept them , thats why I post
    my poor work up here in hopes to get even more crits and again, get my butt in
    gear. Sures theres nothing nice about being told your not very good, but Im a
    firm beleiver in taking it in stride, enjoying the finer things and life, and
    working harder to produce better work. Hence me sitting here on a Sunday working,
    instead of gettin out on the slopes. \r\n\r\nCheers All"
  children:
  - author:
      name: sayerhs
      picture: 112341
    body: "no offence taken :)\r\n\r\ngood luck with the publication\r\n\r\nshreyas"
    created: '2007-04-01 22:39:46'
  created: '2007-04-01 19:33:46'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Jason, you make some good points about making and taking criticism, which
    I will try to heed.\r\n\r\nJames, I was not trying to discourage you. Nor was
    I judging you or your work. I <strong>was</strong> reacting to your reply to Jesse.
    I <strong>was</strong> trying to make you think about something Jason said earlier
    about not looking for easy answers, about not looking for someone else to do your
    work for you. In short, I was trying to say \"If you simply take someone else's
    idea and use it as your own, then you will not be learning anything.\"\r\n\r\nIt's
    one thing to show what you've done and get a crit, it's quite another to take
    an idea someone else offers you. Your statement about liking Jesse's idea prompted
    my comment.\r\n\r\nIf people offer you ideas rather than crits, they are not doing
    you a favor, in the long run.\r\n\r\nBest of luck, and I hope all goes well."
  created: '2007-04-01 23:11:31'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: One good thing about all of the posts here is that they will help you to prepare
    for the world of work, when you get there, because, believe me, there are some
    employers, or clients, who are not so friendly and nice, not so helpful, and that
    can be bitter medicine. So you have to learn to work with it all. Whatever you
    do, don't lose the focus on what your own qualities are. And those qualities will
    develop as you become more experienced, and learn more of your craft. At this
    time in your life in the academic world you can certainly take some risks which
    you might not be able to do in the work place unless you are fully confident in
    yourself. And of course a part of that confidence comes with an understanding
    of what criticism of your work means to you and how best to understand it. Best.
  created: '2007-04-02 00:22:05'
- author:
    name: hoolia_d
    picture: 112385
  body: "I love the fact that you're using Univers, which gives you a whole lot of
    room for experimenting with the different weights. I love your color palette,
    but if you do want to kick it up a notch you should go to http://kuler.adobe.com/
    for some sweet color combos. \r\n\r\nYour teacher is way too big on abbreviation,
    and her closing comment was kind of mean. \r\n\r\nI agree with her on a few things,
    but only to an extent, but I also think that if she wanted something that breaks
    the rules of a traditional book that she shouldn't be talking about margins. Granted
    your margins are uneven in certain places but what if you were to make a bigger
    statement with them. \r\n\r\nI love the huge type, and I agree that you should
    try to shorten the amount of pages, to imply that it is indeed eco-friendly. I
    assume that because it is a type class she doesn't want pictures, so maybe you
    could you use a *gasp* webding of the world or a symbol of choice to represent
    the world. It may be a terrible idea and I may be criticised for it, but it's
    worth a shot. \r\n\r\nJust break up the space a bit by mixing all of your elements
    and take chances. My first typography teacher ever made us research experimental
    type and bring in samples and try to draw on them for inspiration. It helped for
    the most part, and sometimes it's even good for you to look at the current examples
    of global warming books, and upon seeing how terribly they address something so
    important, you'll do the exact opposite.\r\n\r\ngood luck!\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-02 01:29:45'
- author:
    name: WorkOslo
  body: "-Maybe there are some elements that morph over time (from page one to the
    end)\r\n-different shades of green\r\n-can it grow , I mean the acctual piece\r\n-can
    it somehow convey a solution towards the end... right now it is too blah\r\n-Can
    you hide little pieces here and there in the type\r\n-Right now it is green, what
    if it is brown,black and crappy, to convey the need for change?\r\n\r\nI am just
    firing away here, but you need to think freely. Go balls out, talk to your teacher
    about it, and then pull back in. I am sure your teacher would much rather see
    you go out of your element and into something a bit more experimental. You are
    in school, and this is where you can experiment."
  created: '2007-04-02 20:33:55'
date: '2007-03-29 22:28:05'
files:
- filename: scriven_book_comps.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/scriven_book_comps.pdf
node_type: forum
title: Help me not fail my Type 3 class

---
