---
author:
  name: softbluecries1
body: "I have spent the past 3 weeks trying to obtain every piece of information about
  [[Carol Twombly]] for a project in my typography class. I keep seeing things on
  the web about interviews with her. \r\n\r\nIf anyone knows where (website) I can
  find an interview with her it would extremely helpful.\r\n\r\nI am also looking
  for information about her life today. Is she married? any kids? that kind of information.
  The last thing I found is that she retired from Adobe."
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'If you can''t find this info elsewhere, you might try Chuck Bigelow, he''s
    in Rochester too (at RIT), and I''m sure he could fill you in on the details -
    he must know what she''s up to.  '
  created: '2007-03-30 05:41:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There's a decent interview of her in an old issue of Serif magazine. I myself
    have heard pretty much nothing of what she's done since Adobe. Question: will
    you be covering Mirarae well? It's a superb design, and proves ol' Blaise Pascal's
    maxim. \r\n\r\nBTW, I'm curious, what made you take this on?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-30 05:43:21'
- author:
    name: softbluecries1
  body: "I have contacted Charles Bigelow but the only information he could give me
    I already knew. How would I go about finding the issue of Serif Magazine? Is it
    viewable online?\r\n\r\nMy professor gave us a list of type designers and when
    I looked up her info I was interested. It is our final project."
  created: '2007-03-30 05:55:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> How would I go about finding the issue of Serif Magazine?\r\n\r\nBy bartering
    with somebody who has it, hint hint?  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-30 06:43:40'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: There's a bit of info on her in Adobe's old promo mag, Font and Function.
    I'll try to hunt it up this weekend. Still, this would be not recent info, perhaps
    10 years old.
  created: '2007-03-30 11:34:47'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: Here is a scan of the designer page in an old Adobe Trajan specimen from 1989:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TwomblyAdobeTrajanBooklet_4565.jpg]
  created: '2007-03-30 12:35:58'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: I remember I read an interview by Tim Rolands, it might be online.
  created: '2007-03-30 13:30:16'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "Heather:\r\nWhen is your assignment due? "
  created: '2007-03-30 13:50:51'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "The last I heard about Carol was that she wasn't married but had a steady
    and had gone off to Nevada or somewhere like that to weave. She liked skiing.
    She hated working at Adobe. She was knowledgeable about type but obviously wasn't
    interested in it by the time I was spending time with her between 1996 and 1998.
    It's a little cruel to say, but anybody who thinks she made, on her own, an important
    contribution to type design simply doesn't know anything about Carol Twombley
    other than the public relations puffery that Adobe put out about her. At Adobe
    she was hemmed in by powerful figures like Slimbach and Stone, and never had a
    chance to express anything particularly original. I don't think she had any interest
    in doing so. If she had, we would have heard something from her in all the years
    after. Or perhaps her decades of corporate warfare at Adobe had bludgeoned the
    creativity out of her. Type wasn't a happy story Carol and she got out as soon
    as she could. For the gory details, assuming they would talk, and I don't think
    they will, E.M. Ginger in Oakdale or Linnea Lundquist were (and I imagine still
    are) good friends. When all is said and done, Adobe Caslon is a fabulous typeface,
    perhaps the best text typeface Adobe ever produced in the Originals series. How
    much of it was Carol's and how much of it was Sumner Stone's? ? ? ? Sumner was,
    after all, the art director, and Sumner knows a lot about type . . . . . . . That
    last big family she did -- what name was it called? named after some sort of desert
    grass -- was misconceived in my opinion. Carol's story at Adobe is a classic and
    ugly and common tale of male subjugation. Was she particularly vulnerable? Why
    did she put up with it for as long as she did? Was there a happy ending? Lots
    of interesting questions.\r\n\r\nThere definitely was a mystique attached to her.
    How much that was the creation of Adobe's brilliant PR people and how much due
    to Carol's own talent and innate glamour, is not immediately apparent. But it
    was there. I know a type-besotted fellow who, when he was a teen, had a poster
    of Carol in his bedroom. You can imagine the rest. Of course he also believes
    in UFOs, but then lots of people do. \r\n\r\nWhat I'm trying to say is that the
    little that is known about Carol Twombley (does her name have an e or not?) is
    the result of a carefully constructed PR edifice. Arriving at the truth of what
    happened with her and type will bring you to some completely different places."
  created: '2007-03-30 18:30:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Heather, it sounds like you indeed chose an interesting candidate!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-30 18:44:17'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Twombley spaces much better than Twombly - but like Wembley it is hard for
    Americans to pronounce.   '
  created: '2007-03-30 18:55:55'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Hello Bill Troop !
  created: '2007-03-30 21:50:40'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I keep seeing things on the web...</em>\r\n\r\nHave you tried looking
    through those antiquated, old-fashioned things called books, like <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/American-Design-Designers-David-Consuegra/dp/1581153201/ref=sr_1_1/102-2355574-4800156?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1175299580&sr=1-1\"
    \ target=\"_blank\">this one</a>?\r\n\r\nThe world doesn't begin and end with
    the World Wide Web, y'know."
  created: '2007-03-31 01:12:08'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">The world doesn\u2019t begin and end with the World Wide Web, y\u2019know.\r\n\r\n'begin',
    no, but 'end', let's wait and see.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2007-03-31 02:30:05'
- author:
    name: softbluecries1
  body: Yes Ricardo, I have looked through books. The assignment is due Tuesday.
  created: '2007-03-31 03:14:19'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: My apologies for the sarcasm, and good luck.
  created: '2007-03-31 05:30:47'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Mr. Troop, I don't want to sidetrack this thread, but something has been
    bugging me since I read your long and opinionated comment -- no matter how well
    you know someone, aren't they entitled to some privacy? Would you want someone
    writing about <strong>you</strong> this way, and with this much detail, on a public
    forum?\r\n\r\nJust a thought."
  created: '2007-03-31 05:51:54'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "If its factual, I say tell it and tell it some more. \r\n\r\nMike"
  created: '2007-03-31 11:10:23'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: BTW... I doubt your instructor knows more about her than you do. She has really
    been a silent figure in type. Bill Troops scandal is exclusive stuff there although
    I strongly disagree with his assessment of Chaparral.
  created: '2007-03-31 11:50:10'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>The last I heard about Carol...\r\n\r\n...we would have heard something
    from her in all the years after...\r\n\r\n...assuming they would talk, and I don\u2019t
    think they will...\r\n\r\n...were (and I imagine still are) good friends...\r\n\r\nWas
    she particularly vulnerable? Why did she put up with it for as long as she did?
    Was there a happy ending? Lots of interesting questions. [...] (does her name
    have an e or not?)</em>\r\n\r\n\r\nLots of questions indeed. And comments bordering
    on the gossipy. Are these facts, or assumptions? And facts or no, if the subject
    herself and her friends are so quiet about it, maybe that means they don't want
    to talk about it.\r\n\r\n<em>I know a type-besotted fellow who, when he was a
    teen, had a poster of Carol in his bedroom. You can imagine the rest.</em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    I can't. And what the heck is this comment supposed to mean???\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-31 12:07:32'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "this is a scream... i'm sure it's EXACTLY what heather's looking for.\r\n\r\ni
    think typophile should open up an entirely new forum category for humorous tabloid
    scandals of all our favorite designers."
  created: '2007-03-31 15:01:30'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "Heather:\r\nEmail me and I'll send you a scan of the Serif article, and another
    one from a 1994 Design Graphics magazine."
  created: '2007-03-31 15:55:03'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Would you want someone writing about you this way, and with this much
    detail, on a public forum?</em>\r\n\r\nI agree. If anything, its just in poor
    taste."
  created: '2007-03-31 16:27:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">a little cruel\r\n\r\nI agree with Terry. I have no way of judging the accuracy
    of what Bill Troop writes, but whatever the truth it is not an excuse for cruelty.
    In traditional Jewish ethics this kind of thing is called lashon hara--the evil
    tongue--and is regarded not simply as in poor taste, but as seriously unethical.
    \r\n\r\nThere is enough cruelty in the world. Why add to it? "
  created: '2007-03-31 17:42:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Chapparrall is a great face (although I always have trouble spelling it).\r\nSo
    she definitely quit at the top of her game.\r\nTwombly has her own style that
    runs through Charlemagne, Nueva and Chaparal -- too bad she didn't stick with
    the tour, we're missing the sans.\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-31 18:27:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Heather, you could simply use Dr Evil's background speach... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doctor_Evil
    and replace all Dr Evil references with Carol's name.
  created: '2007-03-31 20:24:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Chaparral is a warm yet strong slab. It fits in place nicely.\r\nHere is
    wishing Carol both a happy and a private life.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-01 00:50:11'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: Heather, I have a good interview with Carol from Design Graphics magazine,
    No. 4, 1994. I could send you a PDF if you want to contact me offline (if you
    haven't found it elsewhere).
  created: '2007-04-03 06:03:38'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Mr. Troop, I don\u2019t want to sidetrack this thread, but something has
    been bugging me since I read your long and opinionated comment \u2014 no matter
    how well you know someone, aren\u2019t they entitled to some privacy? Would you
    want someone writing about you this way, and with this much detail, on a public
    forum?\r\nJust a thought.\r\n\r\nI think you go too far. Have you read any biography
    of anyone published in the last 30 years? Or indeed any good biography published
    after 'Eminent Victorians' which I take as the gold standard for modern biography?
    There is a dose of behind the scenes truth in what I wrote but it is hardly salacious.
    There is no point in pretending that Carol's life in type was some sort of idyll.
    If it had been, she wouldn't have quit it. The original poster did ask for some
    biographical information. I provided some. What is your sense of biography and
    what it should provide? Let us say you're going to treat a type designer seriously.
    You want to know what motivated them to work in the first place, what kept them
    there, how their career evolved. When the career ends quite prematurely, you want
    to know why. There is certainly an inextricable link between anyone's personal
    life and private life, and anyone whose achievements are in the least substantial
    is fair game for biography. And let's face it: when a career does end prematurely,
    there is usually to some extent a tragic explanation. What exactly are you looking
    for? Could we have your theory of biography? What biographers do you most admire?
    What is it you like about the way they cover their subjects? Precisely what do
    you think a biographer should not cover, and why? "
  created: '2007-04-03 16:36:45'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: I would say that a few dishy paragraphs of specious hyperbole do not approach
    any reasonable description of good biographical information.
  created: '2007-04-03 17:23:11'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>I would say that a few dishy paragraphs of specious hyperbole do not
    approach any reasonable description of good biographical information.</em>\r\n\r\nAbsolutely.
    There is a very large difference between divulging gossip, and chronicling one's
    life story. It seems pretty apparent who went too far here. I'd be very upset
    if I found a friend of mine sharing information like this on a public forum."
  created: '2007-04-03 18:58:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, I agree with your rationale, but the tone of your original post is
    creepy.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-03 19:13:34'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: You're also talking about someone who is not a public figure. Known in typographic
    circles, but to the general public - an unknown. And because you're talking to
    a relatively small group of people here it resembles gossip more than anything
    else.
  created: '2007-04-03 19:18:10'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Plus, Mr. Troop, I believe you have not stated any intention to write a biography
    of Ms. Twombly. As far as I know, a biography would go through an editor before
    becoming public.\r\n\r\nBesides, a student asks for info for a school paper and
    you provide comments that are at best difficult to corroborate, as you yourself
    acknowledge... Where can she get a second opinion on what you say? I think it's
    pretty clear from some of your comments that you have some sort of beef against
    Adobe, as if you were defending Ms. Twombly, but then some of your other comments
    also make Twombly herself look bad...\r\n\r\nI'm sorry, but I agree with William
    Berkson's earlier comment about cruelty, and with what Terry, Nick, Dezcom and
    Christopher have posted."
  created: '2007-04-04 01:02:54'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>As far as I know, a biography would go through an editor before becoming
    public.</em>\r\n\r\nNot to mention fact checkers. And that interviews with all
    involved parties would at the very least be attempted..."
  created: '2007-04-04 23:21:11'
- author:
    name: softbluecries1
  body: 'Wow, I didn''t mean to upset anyone by asking for information. I thought
    that perhaps there was more information out there that I could not track down.
    I was not trying to pry into Carol''s life, only looking for noted facts. '
  created: '2007-04-05 00:09:14'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Heather, I don't think it was your question that did any of the upsetting!
    :-)
  created: '2007-04-05 01:19:14'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: 'Regarding the Design Graphics interview I mentioned (issue #4, 1994), I am
    surprised to see that it is still available <a href=''http://www.designgraphics.com.au/issues/backissues.php''>here</a>.'
  created: '2007-04-05 17:40:19'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Who is to say, as Mr Troop has said about Ms Twombly, that a career has ended
    \"quite prematurely\"? Certainly not a person who has not even done the research
    necessary to determine the correct spelling for the name of the person under consideration.\r\n\r\nCareers
    end for all sorts of reasons. People quit fine printing to do landscape work,
    or to become environmental activists. Peoples' interests and motivations change.
    A serious biographer does need to inquire about those changes. But no one in this
    discussion has done anything approaching a serious biography of Carol T. A little
    bit of sloppy innuendo, but that's all.\r\n\r\nLet it be.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2007-04-06 20:22:02'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: These sanctimonious comments concern me. What do you complaining gentlemen
    want? The gospel according to the PR department? Is that where your heads are?
    In my view one should be glad, truly glad, to have done anything that warrants
    being talked about at all. My purpose here -- and it is a serious purpose -- was
    only to point out that anyone who wants to learn anything substantive about Carol
    will not find, in the sophomoric fantasies produced by PR scribes, anything that
    even tangentially approaches the truth. You cannot start with commercial material
    expressly designed to conceal a reality that almost rises to tragedy. Surely so
    much as that is evident? There is some sociologist of the 1940s or 1950s who wrote
    of persons who had important roles projected upon them -- for example, Marian
    Anderson, who wished to be a successful singer, not an ambassador for her race.
    Anderson nevertheless accepted this role when it was thrust upon her. In her way,
    I think Carol belongs to this type. The role of the successful, female, happy,
    fulfilled typeface designer was projected upon her because it was necessary for
    reasons of sentiment and commerce. It wasn't just Adobe that needed it -- so did
    the rest of us. Carol opted out. The reasons why are interesting and worth discussing;
    it would be a lovely subject for an above-average master's thesis.
  created: '2007-04-07 18:11:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There is some validity to the comments against Bill. His objectivity concerning
    anything related to Adobe is historically suspect (not that some people here can't
    be accused of the same thing, in the opposite direction). On the other hand, it
    wouldn't susprise me if Twombly actually appreciates seeing her story told in
    whatever way it can, whatever it is. Even if it's not fully accurate! It's a funny
    human reality, but sometimes you have to throw out conjectures to get the truth
    to come out, because some people don't speak out unless it's to defend themselves.
    And some people are too quiet for the own good, and sometimes they know it, and
    sometimes they appreciate the third-party expositions.\r\n\r\nThe way I look at
    it, it takes morally risky stuff like this to effectively\r\ncounter the PR hogwash
    that's become the mainstay of this society.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-07 19:06:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Heather, a bit late, but this may be relevant to your project:\r\nhttp://vcj.sagepub.com/cgi/reprint/4/2/186"
  created: '2007-04-07 20:19:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">What do you complaining gentlemen want?\r\n\r\nWell, that you and others
    not say negative things about other people, *particularly in a public forum*,
    unless there is a compelling reason to do so. \r\n\r\nBy the way, the same concept
    that it is wrong to disparage others, even if what you say is true, is also present
    in Buddhist ethics. So if I am being sanctimonious, at least it is in two religions!
    \r\n\r\nNow what is a 'compelling reason' is, I admit, not always so easy to figure
    out. A lot of office gossip is prudent self-defense. But your comments about lack
    of originality are clearly to a big extent personal opinion--others in fact disagree--so
    that is not revealing helpful facts, but simply disparaging opinion and so is
    out of bounds by these standards. \r\n\r\nI know there are arguments on the other
    side of this issue. Somerset Maughm said with his usual wit that an ideal friend
    has \"a heart that is kind, a hand that is generous, and a tongue that is neither.\"
    But the reality is that toward the end of his life by following these standards
    he alienated and embittered his daughter and all his friends. Admittedly he was
    dotty by then, but still it clearly shows you what this kind of thing does. "
  created: '2007-04-07 21:15:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "People who are part of the establishment don't like negativity.\r\nYou see,
    it upsets the status quo that feeds them.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-07 21:28:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">part of the establishment\r\n\r\nHrant, if I am part of the establishment,
    you are the King of Armenia :)"
  created: '2007-04-07 21:38:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nobody is pure anything, but everybody is more something than some others.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-07 21:53:27'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: I suspect Todd Rundgren must have been contemplating this very matter in his
    double album of the early 1970s, <em>Something/Anything?</em>[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f68971crhvi_4396.jpg]
  created: '2007-04-07 23:49:18'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "William, you are on thin ground here, and I doubt you have really read (why
    should you?) what I wrote or asked yourself how I could possibly be saying what
    I was saying. Very little of what I am saying is my opinion. How could it be?
    I make clear that to the extent I knew Carol at all, it was during her last couple
    of years at Adobe. So where does all of this come from? Well, obviously, from
    the people who were there at the time. Each one of course tells a different story.
    And I thought I was being terribly discreet at not going into any detail about
    who said what and what their possible motives might be. So who have I talked about
    Carol with? First of all with Carol. Second of all with Robert Slimbach, with
    Fred Brady, with Sumner Stone, with EM Ginger, with David Lemon, and with a lot
    of other people. They were all there; they each have a different story. I make
    a deduction when I say that Carol was a victim of the predominantly male culture
    in her environment, but I think it would be a safe deduction to make on far fewer
    facts. I don't think there's anything nasty in talking about it. It's simply what
    happened. I know perfectly well that Carol wasn't interested in doing type at
    the end, because she often spoke of it to me, and her wish to try out managerial
    projects instead --one of which was art directing me. I know there was a lot of
    tension. People really were saying, 'so-and-so is trying to stab me in the back
    -- please don't repeat this -- and don't think you can ever trust him/her/it --ever.'
    Good heavens, it was a viper's nest! On the tangential question of originality,
    you could learn much though far from all by digging through the archives of the
    type design list, which is where I think John Downer published a lengthy and I
    think quite convincing expose of the process that led to the creation of Trajan
    -- several years ago. An excellent piece of research on his part.\r\n\r\nBy the
    way, I have some reason to believe that some of my conversations with Carol were
    taped. Perhaps they still exist in some corporate archive? \r\n\r\nThe funniest
    remark she made is one I regret having made public, but since I have already long
    since done so, there's no harm in repeating it here. I had drawn her attention
    to the remarkable similarity between Robert's Cronos and Volker Kuester's celebrated
    Today Sans Serif. \r\n\r\n'Not again!' said Carol. \r\n\r\nFoolishly, I didn't
    ask her what she particularly meant by that. I really don't have the makings of
    a proper journalist. \r\n\r\nNobody has asked me what my personal feelings are
    in any of this. They're very simple. I was disappointed that Carol left Adobe
    without sorting out my project in the way she had promised, from the start, she
    would, if there was a problem. (She foresaw intractable problems from the start,
    and had candidly warned me that it was likely to end in tears, as it did.) On
    the one hand, I thought it was unnecessarily chicken-hearted of her. But by then
    I knew too much about what she was up against. It was impossible to blame her.
    I wasn't an angel myself at all times. There was an incident, when I was doing
    one of the first stories on OpenType, when Adobe PR wasn't I thought doing its
    job, and I exploded in a vile manner at one of the PR minions or product managers
    who I knew was a good friend of Carol's. Everyone was very polite about it --
    they wanted a good story after all -- but I sensed I had done something awful
    not just to this woman but to all of her friends in similar positions there. I
    had taken unfair advantage of my position not just as a journalist but quite simply
    as a male, and it wasn't a good thing. Carol had to put up with this sort of thing
    for more than ten years. For me, being exposed to it for two or three years, part-time,
    and at the presumably safe distance of 3000 miles, was enough to wash me out for
    a decade as far as type was concerned. Carol tactfully put up with far worse for
    much longer. I have enormous sympathy with that. \r\n\r\nAnd no, I don't think
    these are things that, like cancer decades ago, should 'never be talked about'.
    \ Air it all out, I say! "
  created: '2007-04-08 00:19:36'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Very little of what I am saying is my opinion. How could it be?</em>\r\n\r\nOkay,
    so let's clarify (these are direct quotes from one of your previous posts):\r\n\r\n<em>1.
    At Adobe she was hemmed in by powerful figures like Slimbach and Stone, and never
    had a chance to express anything particularly original. </em>\r\nSubjective.\r\n\r\n<em>2.
    I don\u2019t think she had any interest in doing so.</em>\r\nOpinion.\r\n\r\n<em>3.
    If she had, we would have heard something from her in all the years after.</em>\r\nClearly
    an opinion.\r\n\r\n<em>4. When all is said and done, Adobe Caslon is a fabulous
    typeface, perhaps the best text typeface Adobe ever produced in the Originals
    series.</em>\r\nA nice compliment, but still <em>your</em> opinion.\r\n\r\n<em>5.
    That last big family she did \u2014 what name was it called? named after some
    sort of desert grass \u2014 was misconceived in my opinion.</em>\r\nI find this
    comment dismissive and insulting. And if you were truly concerned about documenting
    \"truth\" or \"fact\" you would have left comments like this out of your post.
    That seems like A LOT of opinions to me."
  created: '2007-04-08 00:35:06'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "God this is boring. Do you have anything interesting to say about Carol or
    her work? And by the way has anyone here other than me said the slightest thing
    of interest about Carol or her work? For that matter, has anyone, ever, anywhere,
    treated her work in the last bit seriously? Has she ever had a Max Caflisch-quality
    critique? Probably not. If what I say about Adobe Caslon really is true (and I
    think it is), that's an example of blatant and hitherto uncriticized sexism on
    the part of the type community. What does Carol really mean to us then? What do
    we really want from her? \r\n\r\nBy the way, for a view of the early days at Adobe
    that enraged no less a personage than Hermann Zapf, see my Mac Directory article
    from a year or two ago on Sumner Stone's type:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.macdirectory.com/newmd/mac/PAGES/REVIEWS/SizeDoesMatter/\r\n\r\nUnfortunately,
    while the magazine has posted two pages of the article in pdf (links at the bottom
    of the article -- it was designed and set by Sumner) the most important part,
    a full page illustration of Cycles and some other fonts showing why size optimization
    is necessary -- was never uploaded although I suppose I could post it on some
    site or another of my own. For what it's worth, I couldn't get the page 1 pdf
    to display in Safari when I tried it just now, though page 2 worked. It really
    did look good. Cycles is a great typeface! This article was written for a coffee
    table 'Mac lifestyle' magazine so it is necessarily drastically simplified by
    type people standards . . . . . "
  created: '2007-04-08 01:28:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Bill, thank you for reviving my dormant memories of that Trajan discussion
    on the TD list. There was more to it than Downer's commendable, if somewhat vigilante-style,
    research. I remember one of the keys to the somewhat, although not fully, damning
    conclusion was what Stone had revealed to somebody or other. I also remember that
    a person who was close to Stone at the time was also relatively open to me (at
    the time :-) so I asked him at an ATypI conference what the deal was, and he said
    it was a combination of a cavalier attitude at Adobe and stubborn intransigence
    on the part of the Catich estate. From the aggregate of what I had learned myself,
    I agreed. Most of all though, it's notable here that Twombly could only be assigned
    a very small part of the blame - she was pretty much following orders (although
    the fact that her bosses were male seems circumstantial).\r\n\r\nBTW, something
    minor I forgot to mention before:\r\nI happen to think Chaparral is a very good
    design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-08 01:57:59'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I agree, Hrant. Chapparal is a good design. Perhaps, unless Ms. Twombly were
    to join us, this discussion should end on that note. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-08 03:42:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Perhaps. In any case, I now harbor a fair amount of hope and faith that Heather
    will somehow manage to get in direct contact with Twombly and deliver a gracious
    but probing interview.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-08 04:01:27'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "maybe and maybe not. there have been times i've had the chance to meet leaders
    in their field, and my questions have even been really meaningful (and sometimes,
    the responses were even meaningful) and sometimes, unfortunately, i can look back
    and see my questions were inane and possibly so much as tiresome. we can always
    hope for the best.\r\n\r\nbut i can say this has been an interesting forum topic.
    a little bit of that is the same way we're drawn to the \"katie feels trapped!
    tom has complete control!\" headlines when we're buying our brocolli or gin or
    bread or whatever. but also because bt seems passionate about his assertions,
    and everyone else seems passionate about their responses. actually, i have always
    held ct up as one of the few celebrated (especially female) type designers of
    our time in my class lectures, but i never knew exactly what happened to her since
    she left adobe (i still don't, exactly). i do hope she's having fun and doing
    some cool things she's happy with. but then, i also hope my students will give
    lithos a rest for a while."
  created: '2007-04-08 05:33:29'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "There are many female <em>graphic</em> designers in the world but... I can
    only name one female <em>type</em> designer in the world and that's Carol Twombly!\r\n\r\nMikey
    :-)"
  created: '2007-04-08 09:59:18'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Most of all though, it\u2019s notable here that Twombly could only be assigned
    a very small part of the blame - she was pretty much following orders (although
    the fact that her bosses were male seems circumstantial).\r\n\r\nThat is the key
    motif that runs through Carol's history as a designer.\r\n\r\nNow change the word
    blame to credit. Is the statement still true? \r\n\r\nOne would wish not. Let's
    put it this way: it _is_ true, in the view of most of the  men she worked with.
    That view may be sullied. How can we ever know the truth? It was never Carol's
    way to speak out.\r\n\r\nTiffany, I can promise you faithfully that the very last
    thing in the world Carol would ever do is (a) either read typophile or (b) contribute
    any kind of response to it. She's in another world. This is absolutely meaningless
    to her. I really do know her well enough to say that. \r\n\r\nFinally, I would
    offer the thought that the reason her Caslon is so good is precisely because she
    is exactly who she is. It is the the particular combination of strength in some
    areas, weakness in others, that led her to succeed in creating an enduring and
    much-used typeface where more talented and egostistical brother designers have
    failed. No true egotist can ever create a truly functional typeface. A successful
    typeface (by which I mean one which provides the most benefit and pleasure to
    the most number of readers) is by definition an object for the community and it
    must in some real sense be of the community and by the community. To go out on
    a limb here, it is not in the male nature to create an invisible work of art --
    and a truly functional typeface _is_ invisible on some important level. It is
    at least conceivable for an oppressed person (who could be a woman or who could
    be an oppressed for a hundred other causes) to conceive, happily, an invisible
    work. There are those, other than Carol, who insist that they are responsible
    for what is good in the design. I accept that this is true, but I also accept
    that it is absolutely Carol's design and could not have come about unless she
    were exactly who she is. A painful birth!\r\n\r\nI admire Adobe Caslon more every
    day. It is one of the very few typefaces that does not annoy me and I am constantly
    recommending it to people looking for something special. This is cruel but it
    is true: Carol does not like to annoy; it is entirely in her nature to create
    a typeface that does not annoy. What the rest of us have so much difficulty in
    realizing is that this is perhaps the most desirable feature a text typeface can
    have. \r\n\r\nBy the way -- in all Carol's letters to me -- it was always Caslon
    she used! I am sure it is her favourite. "
  created: '2007-04-08 10:18:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I can only name one female type designer in the world\r\n\r\nZuzana Licko
    of Emigre is one prominant woman type designer active today. \r\n\r\n>my Mac Directory
    article \r\n\r\nBill you say in your article that the optical sizes of Adobe make
    compromises so that their sizes work also at other than the intended sizes. And
    you say that these compromises make the optical sizes of Adobe inferior to those
    of Font Bureau and of Sumner Stone. \r\n\r\nI am interested: what specifically
    do you think is wrong with the treatment of the Adobe optical sizes? What adjustments
    to weights, contrasts, serifs, do you think are less than ideal?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-08 10:19:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it is not in the male nature to create an invisible work of art\r\n\r\nThis
    is a very interesting point, but there are a problem and a paradox. The problem
    is that any face (even a text face) also needs to <cite>not</cite> be transparent
    in some ways; and the paradox is that, in some ways besides transparency, the
    male nature seems more conducive to type design - and this I feel is a big reason
    why we have such a huge disproportion in gender (although social/conditioning
    issues are always a huge reason too). The same is true in philosophy (noting that
    there has been only one notable female philosopher, and quite interestingly she
    was not heterosexual) and possibly stand-up comedy (where it seems a disproportionate
    proportion of female performers are not heterosexual).\r\n\r\nHmmm, so maybe the
    Ideal Type Designer is bisexual!  :-)\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nConcerning optical sizing,
    a separate thread would be smart.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-08 15:05:12'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "H.P. -- <cite>The same is true in philosophy</cite>\r\n\r\nWho?\r\n\r\nB.T.
    -- <cite>Has she ever had a Max Caflisch-quality critique? Probably not.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn
    fact, Herr Caflisch reviewed Adobe Caslon in TM 3/1992."
  created: '2007-04-08 15:54:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Who?\r\n\r\nSappho: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sappho _\r\nIn fact the
    term \"lesbian\" is derived from the name of her\r\nhome island: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lesbos_Island\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-08 16:09:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'As the wiki article says, Sappho was a lyric poet, not a philosopher, though
    her poetry was admired by Plato. Even in translation, the greatness of her poetry
    is evident. '
  created: '2007-04-08 16:16:39'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Oh, you go far back in history!
  created: '2007-04-08 16:25:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Karsten, what magazine is ''TM''? I''d like to read that review. '
  created: '2007-04-08 16:32:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In the world of Ancient Greece poetry and philosophy were closely tied. Terminological
    pedantry shouldn't prevent us from seeing that what Sappho was doing was thinking
    about existence, and that's essentially philosophy in the useful sense of the
    term (as opposed to the over-formalized contempoarary Western sense).\r\n\r\n>
    you go far back in history!\r\n\r\nAnd part of my point is, you have to.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    there was also a Serif Magazine article comparing various Caslons, including I
    believe Twombly's. Maybe John has the time and kindness to send that along to
    Heather as well.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-08 16:41:35'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: ' i thought there is almost no poetry by sappho that remains - translated
    or not -- beyond incomplete fragments.'
  created: '2007-04-08 16:45:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, something interesting to contemplate here is how \"lesbian\" possibly
    became derived from the name of her island. If her work was so ill-preserved,
    and the references to lesbianism in it so indirect, how could it have prompted
    the derivation? It's not like she invented it! And for one thing, the Ancient
    Greeks were much more open to homosexuality than even we are today, so that aspect
    of her work couldn't have been so extremely in focus. On the other hand, maybe
    her spoken efforts (a mainstray of Ancient Greek philosophy) were what did it
    (especially if she travelled a lot), and the paucity of lesbian references in
    what has survived from her work is just the tip of the iceberg. But I think more
    probable is that the island of Lesbos had over the centuries or at least decades
    become a hub of lesbian activity and thought, and Sappho herself was a product
    of that. She was educated and drawn to compose poetry, so she became the transcriber
    of sorts. In this scenario, the derivation of \"lesbian\" would predate (or at
    least supercede) Sappho.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-08 17:00:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Terminological pedantry\r\n\r\nI don't think Sappho would have been thought
    of as a philosopher in ancient Greece, as lyric poetry it seems was a recognized
    category, different from philosophy.  \r\n\r\n>incomplete fragments\r\n\r\nThere
    was enough from Sappho that I remember being impressed in my college poetry class.
    It seems that the complete works were extant for many hundreds of years, until
    they were ordered to be burned by a series of Popes. [Edit: the wikipedia article
    linked below says that this story does not have historical foundation.]\r\n\r\nI
    found the one I remember on the internet, as translated by Julia Dubnoff:\r\n\r\nSome
    say an army of horsemen,\r\nsome of footsoldiers, some of ships,\r\nis the fairest
    thing on the black earth,\r\nbut I say it is what one loves.\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    very easy to make this clear\r\nto everyone, for Helen,\r\nby far surpassing mortals
    in beauty,\r\nleft the best of all husbands\r\n\r\nand sailed to Troy,\r\nmindful
    of neither her child\r\nnor her dear parents, but\r\nwith one glimpse she was
    seduced by\r\n\r\nAphrodite. For easily bent...\r\nand nimbly...[missing text]...\r\nhas
    reminded me now\r\nof Anactoria who is not here;\r\n\r\nI would much prefer to
    see the lovely\r\nway she walks and the radiant glance of her face\r\nthan the
    war-chariots of the Lydians or\r\ntheir footsoldiers in arms."
  created: '2007-04-08 18:08:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This is a philosophical poem.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-08 18:24:33'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: ">Karsten, what magazine is \u2018TM\u2019? I\u2019d like to read that review\r\n\r\nBill,
    TM is the short title of the Swiss journal <em>Typographische Monatsbl\xE4tter</em>.
    In 2003, shortly before he died, Max Caflisch put together many articles from
    the excellent long series on type history and modern revivals that he had contributed
    to this journal over many years in a two-volume edition that he designed himself
    (beautifully), with the title <em>Schriftanalysen: Untersuchungen zur Geschichte
    typographischer Schriften</em> (St Gallen: Typotron, 2003). They are all in German,
    but well worth looking out for the illustrations alone. The Adobe Caslon piece
    is on pages 200\u2013214 of volume 2, and it is followed by one on Carter's Big
    Caslon."
  created: '2007-04-08 18:46:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> They are all in German\r\n\r\nWhy, since everything in TM has been trilingual
    (including English), no?\r\nMaybe he only had the publication rights to his original
    German writings.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-08 18:54:16'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "> everything in TM has been trilingual (including English), no?\r\n\r\nIn
    some Swiss books, maybe, but not in the TM I know, so the Caflisch pieces were
    only in German, but well worth trying. (TM absorbed a French-language trade journal,
    so some pieces are just in French.)"
  created: '2007-04-08 19:22:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks, James! \r\n\r\nI can manage to read German with the aid of a dictionary.
    I see that the Library of Congress has the Typographische Monatsbl\xE4tter, though
    I'm not sure whether it has the complete run. It doesn't have the books of collected
    essays, alas. "
  created: '2007-04-08 19:23:01'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "So if you have access to the TM, the Big Caslon article is in TM 4/1995 (4
    pages, 2 of them with a great showing of the glyph set).\r\nUnfortunately, I still
    don't have the <cite>Untersuchungen zur Geschichte typographischer Schriften</cite>.
    I rely on the nice collection of offprints which was published some time before
    the book.\r\n\r\nK.L. -- <cite>you go far back in history!</cite>\r\nH.P. -- <cite>And
    part of my point is, you have to.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd I thought you'd offer a contemporary
    philosopher home story. Much neglected genre.&nbsp;&nbsp;:)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-08 19:53:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">contemporary philosopher home story\r\n\r\nI know lady philosophers. Lady
    philosophers are friends of mine. That's why I don't mention them here :) "
  created: '2007-04-08 20:15:28'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: 'Actually, for a women philosopher, you don''t have to go back any farther
    than G.E.M. Anscombe. She did smoke cigars, but as we all learned, sometimes a
    cigar is just a cigar. '
  created: '2007-04-08 20:16:56'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "James, weren't some of the TM Caflisch pieces in English? For example, the
    one on George Abrams's Venetian? I have a copy of that he gave me and I'm sure
    it was in English. Neither  my German nor French is good enough to remember as
    much as I do of it. \r\n\r\nHrant, it is totally demented to say there are no
    woman philosophers. Perhaps not until the 20th century but good heavens, in France
    there is a whole school, in America -- are you mad? You really should read Avital
    Ronell's The Test Drive which as far as I am concerned is the most important book
    on philosophy written since Der Fall Wagner. There is a wonderful passage where
    Ronell suggests, in a play on Jenseits von Gut und Boese, that we are finally
    Jenseits von Mann und Frau. I think she is right. And she is by the way rather
    famously not that way inclined, or at least has been.\r\n\r\nWilliam, the historical
    problem with Adobe's optical axes was that they were implemented such that a 72-point
    master would be printable, without dropout, at six points, and a six point master
    would be usable at 72.  There is a valid commercial reason for this, but it led
    to mediocre designs. This was an intractable source of friction between me and
    the type group when I worked with them in 1996-8 or whenever it was. Happily,
    as shown in some recent work, they have acknowledged that I was right, and their
    optical axes have finally improved in some of the 'opticals' released after the
    catastrophic decision to end the multiple master format. (Just look at any street
    map of London, and you'll see at once that it is a design problem crying out for
    multiple master fonts and a program such as Lari Software's LightningDraw that
    knew how to let users work with MMs.) But Adobe's optical work still fails to
    approach the heights scaled by the Mono/Lino designers of the 1920s and 1930s,
    or the work of such contemporary designers as Stone and Berlow or, of course,
    \ to the extent he works with them, Matthew Carter. Stone's work, as Matthew Carter
    so generously says, is in a category of its own. I'm sorry if I'm still speaking
    in generalities; I don't want to cop out of this, but I don't have time right
    now to show in detail what is right and what is wrong about these typefaces. I
    have been hoping for some time to write a book about type that would go into these
    issues. It has got to the point where I have a willing publisher and a willing
    co-author, but it is still a long way away. In the meantime, just look at a lot
    of type. I learn something every time I look at a good book published between
    1920 and 1970. Just take the example of a government usage guide printed in Monotype
    12 point Baskerville with long quotations in 10 point Baskerville. The only way
    you could even approach the perfection of color in digital is by using Stone's
    Cycles. By the way, I owe the existence of the offer to write this book to Carol
    Twombly. She was approached by Godine in the mid-90s for ideas on someone who
    could write something he envisaged as a successor to Talley of Types. Carol suggested
    me, and I have not been writing the book ever since, but we try to keep the flame
    alive. \r\n\r\nHrant, regarding the theme of women in type design, don't forget
    the hundreds of drawing office girls. Were they mere, low executants, or did they
    have creative input? I have been trying to test the theory for years that some
    unsung woman is the true hero(ine) behind the perfection of Monotype metal Bembo.
    I haven't got very far, though I have identified a possible candidate, thanks
    to David Saunders. The next clues would lie in the initials on the original drawings.
    But it is already clear that nobody will ever know who really designed this typeface.
    \r\n\r\nI must discuss the matter with Saunders again, but my hopes for any revelations
    are not great. David and Pat Saunders know more than anyone else living what actually
    took place in the Monotype drawing offices, but they came much later, after the
    War, and they don't know in any real detail what actually happened in the interwar
    period. "
  created: '2007-04-08 20:35:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I don\u2019t have time right now to show in detail what is right and what
    is wrong about these typefaces\r\n\r\nOk, how about one character in one typeface,
    at three optical sizes? Or just take those two 'e's from Cycles in your article,
    and compare those to the Minion e in Adobe's 'note' and 'display' sizes.  \r\n\r\nI
    know that from Minion to Minion Pro Slimbach improved it significantly by slightly
    fattening the serifs, and IIRC narrowing the round characters. But I can't identify
    a theory at work here. Maybe freed from the multiple masters he was able to refine
    the characters by proofing them at different sizes and altering them. Or is there
    a theory at work? "
  created: '2007-04-08 21:08:16'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "William, analyzing Minion over its many permutations would require thousands
    of words. A nice use of one version of it is the shown in the hardcover edition
    of Sereny's Speer/Struggle with Truth. The heavy flat paper thickens everything
    up a necessary trifle. But it is noteworthy that the extremely careful book designer
    turned kerning off, because using Minion with kerning can create more problems
    than it solves. It is nice that the typeface is being constantly improved. I have
    not spoken to Robert Slimbach in almost ten years but when last I did he disliked
    the face. \r\n\r\nI have reached a point where I am not really interested in studying
    anything but the finest work. For me that constitutes Zapf, Frutiger, Carter,
    Stone, Berlow. Of these five, only the last three know much about actual typeface
    design implementation, and they each know a very great deal. Outside of these
    people I find a lot of interesting and lovely work, but it is all too problemmatical
    for me to get too involved in it. I must say, in the end, that I think a tyepface
    can only be properly evaluated when used for the kind of purpose it is intended,
    a book or a magazine. Of course I am only talking about text type. \r\n\r\nI don't
    think it's right to say that Robert is 'free' from multiple masters. The last
    I heard, fairly recently, all of his work internally is designed in MM format,
    and he believes that the format is going to come back, as well it should. However,
    it is true that, without some sort of substantial intermediate technology, and
    even that has some limitations, it is seldom possible to do the entire optical
    range justice with simple interpolation. For that reason Garamond Pro is designed
    as a multiple master that goes from 6 to 18 points, and another multiple master
    that goes from 24 to 72. I know that Sumner Stone has worked in even finer gradients.
    I have never been able to identify a theory in Robert's work. I think he is less
    intellectual, more intuitive, than people would like to think. I don't like him
    although I once did very much, and I have yet to find a single person who does
    like him. But I admire him for pursuing a lot of projects -- such as Garamond
    Pro -- that he has had to do in his spare time. It is not commonly known, but
    a lot of big projects that have come out of Adobe have been created in the teeth
    of managerial opposition. One shudders to think what he is actually obliged to
    do in working hours -- the things he doesn't want to be working on. Carol wasn't
    the only person to have problems at Adobe. \r\n\r\nYou can isolate a single letter
    and study it and identify good things and bad things in different implementations.
    But I don't think this is a good way to look at a type. You have to look at it
    in its totality, and that takes a lot of time. Well, you have to do both. And
    more!\r\n\r\nDoes Robert have a theory? I don't really think so. Does anyone,
    really? Look at the way Carter's spacing evolved from Galliard to Miller. But
    I'm sorry, I'm just blathering. You've asked for something serious that I just
    can't give right now. \r\n\r\nI _am_ glad Carol got her Caflisch moment! "
  created: '2007-04-09 00:05:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Calling yourself a philosopher is easy*. Getting like-minded people to call
    you a philosopher isn't too hard either. Heck, I've been called all kinds of nice
    things by people who agree with my more \"rousing\" ideas - but I have to suspect
    they're essentially seeing what they want to see, and what I really am will be
    (or much more likely not be) remembered far into the future. Because what's hard
    to pull off is being called a philosopher a couple of millennia after you're dead.
    Of those, the only female we seem to have is Sappho.\r\n\r\n* http://www.flickr.com/photos/48413419@N00/416819792/\r\n\r\nAnyway
    I didn't say there were no women philosophers. I was leading off from Bill's interesting
    view that men are inferior text face designers and implied (among other things)
    that the degree to which a woman becomes a <cite>timeless</cite>* philosopher
    might be tied to her sexual orientation. Of course, I have no Proof.\r\n\r\n*
    Practically speaking, since nothing really is.\r\n\r\n> I am not really interested
    in studying anything but the finest work.\r\n\r\nFine, but from what I've seen
    of you Bill you're too conservative, too cynical when it comes to the possibility
    (I myself would even say unavoidability) of fundamental improvement over precedent.
    You think that dropping the lefthand bar in the \"f\" and \"t\" (\xE0 la Vafflard)
    is a big deal (and in this you are very much like Slimbach, William, and many
    others), while I think it's cosmetic. If I ask you to study Bloemsma's Legato
    and see the pivotal virgin territory it forges into, you would surely balk. But
    consider that in nicely stating that \"you have to look at [a type] in its totality\",
    you should take that far enough to see that everybody is sill making bunches of
    glyphs that get shoved together, and the really good stuff has yet to be designed.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 00:28:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Isolate a single letter... I don\u2019t think this is a good way to look
    at a type.\r\n\r\nI don't think it is that great either. However, because a good
    typeface has an iron consistency, in a really good face the 'DNA' will show itself
    in every character.  And so will optical sizing. So discussing one character in
    several sizes will tell a lot, inspite of its limitations. But you don't want
    to go there, which of course is your prerogative. "
  created: '2007-04-09 00:29:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> a good typeface has an iron consistency\r\n\r\nThis is entirely superficial
    - a classical deluded Westernism.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 00:31:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I like \"Philosopher Mechanic\" a storefront to wrench the mind :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-09 01:06:10'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "My, this post has gotten long! Still trying to read everything. In the meantime,
    I'd like to add to this:\r\n\r\n<strong>S.U.F.:</strong> <em>I can only name one
    female type designer in the world</em>\r\n\r\n<strong>W.B.:</strong> <em>Zuzana
    Licko of Emigre is one prominant woman type designer active today.</em>\r\n\r\nHere's
    some more, in no particular order... Just the first ones that came to mind:\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.typecuts.com/\">Andrea Tinnes</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.margochase.com/\">Margo
    Chase</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/designer/sylvia_janssen/\">Sylvia
    Janssen</a> (more <a href=\"http://www.t26.com/fonts/designer/834\">here</a>)\r\n<a
    href=\"http://vllg.com/Kontour/Odile/mudTyper+Weights/\">Sibylle Hagmann</a> (more
    <a href=\"http://www.emigre.com/EF.php?fid=84\">here</a>)\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fountain.nu/catalogue/unif.asp\">Nina
    David</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.letraslatinas.com/html_tex/la_seno.shtml\">Natalia
    Fern\xE1ndez</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.howdesign.com/blog/Our+Type+Of+Cause.aspx\">Seonil
    Yun</a>\r\n\r\n[<strong>Edit:</strong> I added the links on April 9]"
  created: '2007-04-09 01:14:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Now weed out the ones that cannot really make <cite>text</cite> faces...\r\n\r\nTo
    me the woman-killer seems to be spacing - what makes\r\ntype design more like
    engineering and less like painting.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 01:29:44'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "wb-\r\ni just finished reading \"If not... Winter...\" by ann carson.\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/If-Not-Winter-Anne-Carson/dp/1844080811/ref=pd_bbs_sr_1/103-5861527-8615807?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1176081151&sr=8-1\r\n\r\nit's
    the first book to \"restore\" sappho's poetry back to the existing, incomplete
    fragments. most of the 'complete' work we've read in the past has been the result
    of modern scholars ffilling in the blanks to suggest what sappho MIGHT have written.\r\nat
    least that's what i got from the book."
  created: '2007-04-09 02:16:22'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1844080811_5935.01._SCLZZZZZZZ_AA240_.jpg]\r\n\r\nin
    any case, this seems to be getting far from the point..."
  created: '2007-04-09 02:20:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sappho#Loss_of_Sappho.27s_works\">wikipedia
    article</a> on Sappho says that most are fragments, but there is one complete
    poem and two others pretty complete, including the one I quoted.\r\n\r\nNo journeyman
    or woman poet could patch that together. It's pure genius, speaking with a stunning
    freshness, honesty and eloquence. "
  created: '2007-04-09 02:53:17'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>...Garamond Pro is designed as a multiple master that goes from 6 to
    18 points, and another multiple master that goes from 24 to 72.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn
    fact, Garamond Premier (in its present form) was created as four separate, single-axis
    (weight) MM fonts for each of its optical sizes."
  created: '2007-04-09 05:27:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But technically those can be spliced together into a single MM font, no?\r\nIt's
    just that it would be a waste of effort since MM is no longer supported.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 05:43:14'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: No. They are now completely separate designs. Long ago, it was planned as
    a single MM design with intemediate masters (like Kepler MM), but during the evolution
    of the design, Robert split it into separate MMs. Now, each MM is sufficiently
    evolved that they could not be re-joined.
  created: '2007-04-09 06:14:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">To me the woman-killer seems to be spacing - what makes\r\ntype design more
    like engineering and less like painting.\r\n\r\nWell, this stereotype kind of
    falls apart when you consider the female hinting experts, Diane Collier, Geraldine
    Wade, Sue Lightfoot and Glenda de Guzman to name just four. Also on the engineering
    front I'd credit Judy and Carolyn on my team and Aida Sakkal as knowing more about
    complex script OpenType engineering than any reasonable person would ever want
    to. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 06:26:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I thought I remembered David Lemon once revealing that the MM format can
    accomodate abrupt shifts at given point sizes (and that this can even be done
    on individual glyphs), which is a special kind of intermediate design; mathematically
    speaking, it's not just non-smooth, it's discontinuous. If this is true, then
    the four MMs could indeed be joined (unless I'm missing something). Which is not
    to say there's a practical reason to do so, at least not how things stand right
    now.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 06:27:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Spacing and hinting are entirely different types of tasks. That said, certainly
    stereotypes are meant to fall apart now and again, otherwise they're be boring
    -and in the end useless- truisms. Stereotyping (which is a result of the mind's
    natural, and useful, tendency to generalize) is a tool, and like any tool can
    be used well or poorly, for helping people or for harming them.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 06:29:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Sure, maybe "spacing" is special. It was the engineering vs art comment that
    got my goat.  '
  created: '2007-04-09 06:34:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think Engineering and especially Art are over-loaded terms that are very
    difficult to use well, and are prone to promoting disagreement where all there
    really is is lack of clarity, intellectually and/or communicatively.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 06:38:43'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Ricardo Cordoba> I have never heard of those women before- this of course
    is due to my own ignorance but also the fact that type design is not something
    that appeals to many woman. When I said Carol Twombly  is the only designer I
    know, I meant this in the sense of who is immediately important and I consider
    her the most important female type designer ever. Zuzana Licko and Veronika Elsner
    are others. \r\n\r\nBut probably the lest appreciated woman in type who is also
    one of the most important is Cherie Cone! Behind the greatest living type designer
    (???) is Cherie- the brains behind the operation who allows Mr. Carter to focus
    on what he does best while she whips deals into shape! \r\n\r\nThere are not as
    many women graphic designers as men- computer technicians, software designers,
    chip designers, hardware engineers etc.\r\n\r\nDoes that mean this is wrong? Not
    always. Women have a choice now (in the usa- elsewhere???). And that includes
    'this career sucks!' But what Bill talked about Adobe being a boys club is a very
    common thing in so many professions its gross- and in 2007 too!!!\r\n\r\nIn ages
    past the man worked and the woman tended to the family. Hence the long legacy
    of male type designers... women type designer from way back when- I for sure never
    heard of one. So also in that sense of women having very few role models is a
    stumbling block. But the roads are more open now and there are so many wonderful
    new ideas flowing from both men <em>and</em> woman in type design.\r\n\r\nAs far
    sexuality is concerned, I think a woman can crossover into a typical male role
    without having to be lesbian. But as the more physically demanding the career
    get (pro sports, correctional/police officer, industrial, firefighter) you start
    to see more lesbian women because they these women operate like men. They have
    heavy builds, deep voices, and dress the part. Another words- they will kick your
    ass!!! \r\n\r\nNot so much for men. Fashion designers, hair stylists, interior
    decorators, dancers and the like are like 99.99999999% gay and that's the way
    it is. But wait- those are are gay man roles period... there is no crossing over.\r\n\r\nTrue
    story:\r\nI sat in mall hair salon waiting for a lady friend of mine to get her
    do done and the lady stylist was complaining that new clients call up and ask
    if a man is available, then the nest question is 'is he gay', the receptionist
    say no but he does great hair. The client might accept. And if only a female is
    available they just hang up, reschedule or wait till a gay man is available. Carltons
    Hair Salon if you must know!!!\r\n\r\nWelcome to 2007!\r\n\r\nMikey :o)"
  created: '2007-04-09 08:16:31'
- author:
    name: Nicole Dotin
    picture: 110879
  body: "Hey Bill, the \"drawing office girls\" prefer to be called women.\r\n\r\nAnd,
    there are plenty of women type designers. It does no one any favors to presume
    that women don't want to become type designers or that their natures don't support
    it. It only reinforces outmoded stereotypes.\r\n\r\nLook at the recent years'
    TDC winners, for example, and you will see a number of women's names producing
    award-winning work. There are even some text faces in there."
  created: '2007-04-09 09:49:10'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "Veronika Burian.\r\n\r\nWomen are under-represented in most professions,
    not just type design. I think we can take it as a given that this reflects social
    pressures, not their \"feminine nature\". (Can't we?) "
  created: '2007-04-09 12:14:59'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Sorry, Nicole, I'm speaking historically. Those women are all most unfortunately
    now dead (the great drawing office ladies of the 20s and 30s) and they were all
    called girls in the manner of the day, even though some were far from young. \r\n\r\nThe
    problem with getting to the bottom of anything at Monotype with regard to the
    women is that they were not the only class of people treated like dirt. Morison
    hated all the engineers. It is terribly sad but we are all thirty or forty years
    too late in trying to get at this history. At least with David and Pat Saunders,
    we can learn something about the practices of the 40s and 50s -- but that's not
    what we really want to know. \r\n\r\nSpeaking of girls and fitting, I think Carol
    did all her fitting by eye, and believe me she knows what she's doing. Robert,
    however, has a more scientific way of doing it, especially the italics -- and
    Carol was the one who wrote up his method -- at my request. It's a method of using
    slanted guidelines not unknown to others, which Fontlab somewhat facilitates.
    I believe that until the end, Carol used FontStudio for her work. \r\n\r\nI didn't
    know that Garamond Pro or Extra Fancy or whatever it's now called had got to the
    point of constituting four separate multiple masters. Doesn't that kind of indicate
    that you might just as well design each optical size separately, as Stone does
    most of the time? It's the only way to free yourself . . . . that said, I do like
    the simplicity of an optical axis going evenly from 8 to 72, and I do think it
    can be accomplished with something pretty close to perfection. Perhaps I am deluding
    myself however. \r\n\r\nUltimately I don't think it's gender that's important
    in type, I think it's teamwork. "
  created: '2007-04-09 12:54:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">it was planned as a single MM design with intemediate masters (like Kepler
    MM), but during the evolution of the design, Robert split it into separate MMs.\r\n\r\nThat
    is what I meant, Bill T, by being 'freed' from MM--not that it wouldn't be used
    in production, but that there was no requirement that the user be able to output
    a whole range of sizes from a single MM font. \r\n\r\n>It\u2019s a method of using
    slanted guidelines \r\n\r\nAre you referring to the technique explained by Mark
    Simonson here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19788 ?"
  created: '2007-04-09 13:38:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nicole, I think what does no one any favors is refusing to think; in this
    case about the relevance of gender. One thing that seems impossible to refute
    to me is that physical differences exist (including in the brain's structure).
    What do those differences translate into? I don't pretend to really know myself,
    although I can be sure that we are better at different things. In any case I refuse
    to avoid thinking. It's what actions you take with your thoughts that counts.
    And political correctness is for politicians.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand I do realize
    now that \"woman-killer\" was\r\nway too strong; better would have been... woman-slower-downer.
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nBTW, from the enrollees in my typeface design class I certainly know
    that women very much want to be type designers - in fact they seem to outnumber
    men in that now (although part of it must be a \"fallout\" from the much greater
    proportion of women in graphic design as a whole, and the general perception that
    type design is a subset of graphic design).\r\n\r\n> I think we can take it as
    a given that this reflects\r\n> social pressures, not their \u201Cfeminine nature\u201D.\r\n\r\nCertainly
    (and I mentioned that myself previously). Like I happen to know that as of a few
    years ago there were only two women tow-truck drivers in the state of California*,
    and social expectation must be like 90% of the reason.\r\n\r\n* BTW, I discovered
    this because one of them was Armenian.  :-)\r\n\r\n> I do like the simplicity
    of an optical axis going evenly from 8 to 72\r\n\r\nBut -as you used to say, and
    I've come to realize- the desirability of that depends on the nature of the design
    at hand. Think of making even a moderately faithful revival of Caslon in MM, which
    naturally includes optical scaling - especially in things like the italic \"Q\":
    http://themicrofoundry.com/other/caslon_q.gif _\r\nIt's not only non-linear, but
    actually exhibits a -sensical- topological difference!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: katju
      picture: 112419
    body: "Hmm. Intresting to hear, as a newcomer to the forum, where I am most likely
      lacking some designer qualities because of my gender... Although I am happy
      to realise, that should I ever want to better my performance, I could consider
      lesbianism or bisexuality. :) (This is the year 2007, isn't it?)\r\n\r\nJust
      wait and see, we are not in a status quo. The more evolved the society, the
      more there will be women in traditionally male occupations and vice versa. And
      the differences talked about will not be those between sexes, but those between
      individuals. The latter part should be true already, but unfortunately isn't,
      since people seem to love the stereotypes to great extent.\r\n\r\nHrant, having
      followed a little bit the brain research and also the studies on what constructs
      a gender, I can affirm that \u2013 despite the efforts \u2013 there has not
      been any findings to support what you are hinting (about the differences between
      sexes due to brain or other factors). The current paradigm is that one's intrest
      and talent in engineering, mathematics, painting, typography, graphic design,
      or what ever else has been mentioned, are for the most part due to culture and
      upbringing, that is socialisation. Not to brains, hormones or even genetics.
      Any other paradigms remain to be proven.\r\n\r\nAnd this was first concluded
      in 1949 by the famous French philosopher Simone de Beauvoir."
    created: '2007-04-09 16:50:35'
  created: '2007-04-09 14:24:21'
- author:
    name: Nicole Dotin
    picture: 110879
  body: "\"Nicole, I think what does no one any favors is refusing to think\"\r\n\r\nI
    couldn't agree more. But, sometimes people think out loud before they have something
    useful to say (that's not a dig, just a comment...). \r\n\r\nDiscussions around
    women's achievements too often include wild (WILD!) speculation about why women
    are or aren't involved. I don't discount gender difference, but prefer to see
    it is just one of many factors that go into someone/anyone choosing type design
    as a career. It's important to look at a number of factors (notably the system
    through which typefaces get created and published and how a career in type design
    is formed) and not just what inner qualities women may or may not possess.\r\n\r\nOk,
    enough chatter, I've got to get back to designing type. :)"
  created: '2007-04-09 16:32:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My daughter seems to be able to do whatever she sets her mind to despite
    her gender. I wonder what my wife and I have done wrong since she doesn't seem
    to know about all of these shortcomings?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-09 17:20:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> sometimes people think out loud before they have something useful to say\r\n\r\nBetter
    than the opposite in my book!\r\n\r\nBTW, it's quite interesting that nobody seems
    to mind Bill's view concerning the inferiority of men in designing text faces
    - which I actually think has some validity. If this seems confusing, it might
    be because some people want to think in absolutes, not nuances, ambivalence and
    complexity.\r\n\r\n> The more evolved the society, the more there will be\r\n>
    women in traditionally male occupations and vice versa.\r\n\r\nI would be cautious
    in calling it \"evolved\". In my view women were \"liberated\" from parenting
    essentially to become slaves for the rich. And compulsory public education (which
    is essentially a free brainwashing and babysitting service) goes hand-in-hand
    with that.\r\n\r\n> there has not been any findings to support what you are hinting\r\n\r\nExcept
    for plain old common sense, which in this male-dominated society\r\nhas been demoted.
    What's most sad is whem women join in to this delusion.\r\n\r\n> for the most
    part\r\n\r\nYou said it, not me.\r\n\r\nChris, your attitude is a classic deluded
    Americanism, designed to keep the peons merrily voting.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 17:28:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Can't argue with well substatiated logic like that.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-09 17:32:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Over-reliance on Logic is how peons are kept in line.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 17:34:03'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Always entertaining that it is the boys discussing how or what the girls
    are capable of doing. '
  created: '2007-04-09 17:59:03'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">BTW, it\u2019s quite interesting that nobody seems to mind Bill\u2019s view
    concerning the inferiority of men in designing text faces - which I actually think
    has some validity\r\n\r\nWell thanks Hrant for the compliment of elevating anything
    I might innocently say into a 'view'. I'm much too impulsive to have views by
    and large. I do think men tend to be more egocentric than women, less able to
    share achievement (though obviously not, for example, Japanese men) . . . . and
    I think type is best done co-operatively. That really is a view. It has been evolving
    for a long, long, time. Yet Matthew Carter criticizes me for what he regards as
    my excessive dependence on other peoples' opinions. 'When are you going to learn
    to fly solo?' he asked me -- twelve years ago. I have only gotten more neurotic
    since. \r\n\r\nI really also sense that we are on the verge of true changes in
    gender equality. I do think that women growing up now -- many of them -- will
    be able to think and do as well as men -- and perhaps men growing up now will
    be able to do likewise? \r\n\r\nAgain I really do recommend Ronell's 'The Test
    Drive' as a foundational thought provoking book for this era. \r\n\r\nOne thing
    I would like to point out about Adobe is that Carol had problems, and some of
    them had to do with the fact that she was a woman and had been trained to be compliant.
    However, the men had their problems too, and some of them were the same problems.
    So to a certain extent, it's unfair to bring gender into it, yet you certainly
    can't leave it out either. It's the corporate control structure that was the cause
    of all these problems. Yet without the corporate control structure, and all that
    entailed, you would not have had these designers working in a somewhat collaborative
    environment, which is good. Apparently there are no right answers. So maybe I've
    been asking the wrong questions? "
  created: '2007-04-09 18:08:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">always entertaining\r\n\r\nHarvard's faculty was less than amused when <a
    href=\"http://www.boston.com/news/local/articles/2005/01/17/summers_remarks_on_women_draw_fire/\">President
    Larry Summers raised this issue</a>.\r\n\r\nHe was ultimately forced to resign,
    in circumstances explained in <a href=\"http://www.boston.com/news/globe/editorial_opinion/oped/articles/2006/02/22/coup_against_summers_a_dubious_victory_for_the_politically_correct/\">this
    article</a> by Alan Dershowitz.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 18:13:47'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Over-reliance on Logic is how peons are kept in line.\r\n\r\nRandomly quoting
    from Star Trek does little for your credibility. Although I think it was Vulcans
    not peons. :-)"
  created: '2007-04-09 18:25:25'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Always entertaining that it is the boys discussing how or what the girls
    are capable of doing.</em>\r\n\r\nYes it is! You beat me to it, Tiff. :) I was
    next waiting for the discussion on the merits of natural childbirth.\r\n\r\nAlso
    check out <a href=http://typophile.com/node/29489>this thread for more on female
    type designers.</a href> Please add to the list."
  created: '2007-04-09 18:35:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William: Yes, the tyranny of silencing anti-establishment thought now extends
    even to the highest echelons of US education. You have made your system hermetic;
    which means however than when the time comes your fall will be gargantuan. As
    it was with Rome.\r\n\r\nTerry, childbirth is actually a central key to this discussion.
    Let's see Chris deliver... BTW, I remember when my wife was pregnant, seeing her
    delight when the baby started kicking, deep down I was envious (if otherwise I
    was relieved to be well clear of bearing children :-) which was a jolting and
    bitter-sweet realization for me. But anyway it is not meant to be. And that sort
    of human reality permeates everything.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW, something that's
    even more relevant than social \"conditioning\" and certainly gender in terms
    of what we end up doing in life is Circumstance, what life throws at us. Would
    Carter have ended up designing type if his father wasn't involved in type? And
    what about his father's father's circumstances? It all blends into the dark strands
    of history, and we have no control. This BTW is something the West has great trouble
    with.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 18:49:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Over-reliance on Logic...\"\r\n\r\nWell that is one thing Hrant will never
    be guilty of :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-09 18:51:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Fake smile[y]s are disgusting.\r\nAnd tellingly, middle-aged white males
    use them a lot.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 19:00:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thank god I am well past middle age then :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-09 19:04:47'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Feeling the strongest feminine instinctual urge (or would that be desire?
    or hysteria?) to quote Woolf and her \"on women\" library list as well as the
    bit about Shakespeare's sister. \r\n\r\nWould have loved to have been able to
    present this thread in my writing by women class (offered as part of the Simone
    de Beauvoir Institute...)\r\n\r\nThere really should be studies to look at the
    phenomena of men who try to solve the \"Feminine problem.\" It sounds like often
    the \"feminine problem\" exists because men have assigned it that label, and acted
    accordingly.\r\n\r\nKeep it up, the discussion is interesting and provoking.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 19:06:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Those of us who try to \"solve\" it are simply being\r\nour dumb males selves
    - please forgive our nature.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 19:08:47'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Fake smile[y]s are disgusting.\r\n\r\nSo are you asking me to insert real
    smileys into Georgia? You know I can do that. \r\n\r\nLive long and prosper, Si"
  created: '2007-04-09 19:29:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I love Typophile. Something must be very wrong with me :) '
  created: '2007-04-09 19:40:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The scene fades as we watch Si singing his rendition of \"Georgia on My Mind\"
    and putting a yellow smiley face sticker from Walmarts on Hrant's door...FTB\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-09 19:52:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Little known fact: \"Live long and Prosper\" is a loose translation of the
    traditional Jewish greeting \"Shalom U'vracha\". It is accompanied in Star Trek
    by Leonard Nimoy giving a hand sign with the four fingers divided in the middle
    into a 'V', the sign indicating a Hebrew letter 'Shin', abbreviation for one of
    the names of God, and used by those in the Priestly class--cohanim--to bless the
    congregation. \r\n\r\nAnd subsequently Leonard Nimoy, who is Jewish, showed his
    devotion to his faith by publishing a book of photos of young naked women wrapped
    in transparent prayer shawls.\r\n\r\nAll <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Shekhina-Leonard-Nimoy/dp/1884167160/ref=pd_bbs_sr_4/102-8998943-2821747?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1176146055&sr=8-4\">true</a>!
    \r\n\r\nAnd that's why Hrant is such a trekkie! (not true :)  "
  created: '2007-04-09 20:15:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"transparent prayer shawls\"\r\n\r\nThat creates a strange image.\r\nFran
    Drescher in Saran Wrap :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-09 20:34:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I like the original Star Trek series, but none of the newer ones. And to
    make a Trekkie comment that's not a self-aggrandizing distraction from the topic(s)
    at hand, I would point out that Kirk's behavior towards women is now considered
    politically incorrect, which to me is most of all an indication of how shallow
    and coercive we've become. Bill, \"on the verge of true changes in gender equality\"?
    Equality is death - the great dehumanizer.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 21:38:47'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/designer/tori_alimbau/\">Tori Alimbau</a>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.linotype.com/3336/reneelewinter.html\">Ren\xE9e Le Winter</a>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/person/liche/ingrid/\">Ingrid Liche</a>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/person/balke/martina/\">Martina Balke</a>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.johanna.sk/\">Johanna Balusikova</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.at/fontlistc.php3?ns=1&sns=2&co=&co2=byvendor&v=TO\">Adela
    de Bara</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/person/bastien/annie/\">Annie
    Bastien</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/person/laxa/isabell/\">Isabell
    Laxa</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/person/layson/margaret/\">Margaret
    Layson</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/person/lyskova/tatiana/\">Tatiana
    Lyskova</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/person/mazzei/nancy/\">Nancy
    Mazzei</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/designer/themina_rafique/\">Themina
    Rafique</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/designer/susanna_dulkinys/\">Susanna
    Dulkinys</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.garagefonts.com/typespecimens_2.html?sku=GF089001X1P2&start=1\">Brigitte
    Foissac</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.identifont.com/show?FGR\">Betsy Kopshina</a>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/designer/inga_kwiatkowski/\">Inga Kwiatkowski</a>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/person/will/gisela/\">Gisela Will</a>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/person/tzaregorodtseva/yelena/\">Yelena Tzaregorodtseva</a>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/person/zabolotney/stacey/\">Stacey Zabolotney</a>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/person/varon/sara/\">Sara Varon</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/person/santosa/yolanda/\">Yolanda
    Santosa</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/person/schwarz/stefanie/\">Stefanie
    Schwarz</a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-10 01:43:39'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "Cleo Huggins (or did someone already mention her?)\r\nGudrun Zapf von Hesse"
  created: '2007-04-10 04:11:29'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "A 22-page (!) article on Carol Twombly and her type design work at Adobe
    in the early 90s can be found in Design Graphics magazine, issue #4. What's amazing
    is that you can still buy this back issue direct from the magazine in Australia.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.designgraphics.com.au/issues/backissues.php\r\n\r\nI
    read this at the time and it was one of the things that seriously cemented my
    interest in type design back then. Good article.\r\n\r\nThanks to Christopher
    Slye for digging this up. I still have it around here somewhere as well.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-04-10 06:44:00'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "This is becoming an awfully long thread AND completely off topic \u2014 but
    today (when looking for FontStudio software) I found this:\r\n\r\nhttp://faculty.mdc.edu/earteaga/gra1206/1206l10.html\r\n\r\nMay
    be of interest to the original poster."
  created: '2007-04-12 17:27:51'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Note: That piece incorrectly credits Carol with designing Pepperwood, Rosewood
    and Zebrawood. These were designed by other women in the type group at Adobe.'
  created: '2007-04-13 07:41:25'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Pepperwood, Rosewood and Zebrawood were initially released in 1993, and designed
    by Kim Buker Chansler, Carl Crossgrove and Carol Twombly.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-13 12:58:19'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">but today (when looking for FontStudio software)\r\n\r\nIf you're looking
    for FontStudio, you're looking in the wrong place. You want the latest beta, the
    PPC/FPU version if you're on a reasonably modern Mac. Works fine last time I tried
    it. I got my copy from Harold Grey when he was still the bootblack at ITC and
    passed it on to Lucas de Groot . . . and Carol Twombly. \r\n\r\nI don't think
    I like the metrics editing, which I admit I can't figure out, but I love the fact
    that if a point is selected, tab/shift-tab brings you to the next/previous handle,
    node -- it's much more useful than what we now have in Flab, and of course far
    more useful than Fog in this respect. This is a beautiful fine tuning tool. You're
    on a handle, you adjust with the cursor; you tab over to the next handle on the
    path, adjust, tab to that next node, adjust, tab to its handles, tab to the next
    node's handles . . . . etc. What an exquisite way to fine-tune an outline, and
    you never have to do something so inane and cumbersome and time consuming, and
    interruptive of your creative flow as look for your mouse cursor, fiddle with
    it, etc. etc. This is how it should be. It is creative heaven, provided by machines.
    Yuri, instead of having tab (a character whose significance you too often ignore)
    move you from handle to node to handle, and back again, it would be wonderful
    if you let tab take you to the next node, just as FontStudio does. This tab action,
    of course, will only take place when a node is selected, and it will only, as
    so elegantly implemented in Font Studio, work for selected nodes. You have what
    seems to me rather a wrong thing going on, which is that handles can't be edited
    while several nodes are selected, since navigating to a handle automatically deselects
    the selection. Why is that? FontStudio doesn't seem to have a problem with it.
    And by the way, am I the only person who thinks that the use of Tab in the Flab
    glyph window when nothing is selected -- turning on and off the rudimentary and
    useless character selection panel -- is a waste of a good control character? "
  created: '2007-04-13 14:31:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Didn't FontStudio fade away into oblivion years ago?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-13 14:48:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> These were designed by other women in the type group at Adobe.\r\n\r\nFunny.\r\n\"Yeah,
    one o'thems wimins done did it.\"\r\n\r\nBTW it's sounding like Carl's story would
    be even more interesting than Carol's... Hey wait, look at their names... maybe
    they're the same person?!  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-13 15:31:39'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "But plenty of people have seen me and Carol in the same place at one time.
    Sorry. ;) \r\n\r\nHowever, lots of non-native English speakers seem to think the
    2 names are the same....\r\n\r\nKim Buker Chansler did the design of the Woodtype
    3 package, and I filled out the character set and finished the outlines and spacing,
    under Carol Twombly's direction. So, each of us were involved, but not in the
    same capacity. You could call the roles Designer, Production, and Art Direction.
    I needed a lot more direction then, and Carol was very encouraging and reassuring
    to work with. "
  created: '2007-04-13 17:01:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah, twins then. Which however doesn't resolve the gender suspiciousnesseses...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-13 17:07:11'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Didn\u2019t FontStudio fade away into oblivion years ago?\r\n\r\nThere are
    those who still use it. The main reason is that there is NOTHING that will let
    you gracefully flit from point to point, handle handle, using just the tab keys
    and cursor keys, while you perfect your curves. It is one of the most powerful
    creative experiences the computer allows. If you are really interested in perfecting
    your letter shapes, FontStudio's mechanism is glorious. Yuri, is there any reason
    not to put this into Fontlab?\r\n\r\nAlso nice is the 800% zoom. Not even FontLab
    has that, though Fog5 went to 3200% and I sometimes wished it would do more. \r\n\r\nThe
    main limitation of FontStudio for me, for the project that I would most have liked
    to use it, was that it only worked in integer point units and I wanted the extra
    precision that Fog 4/5 (or Ikarus/whatever DTL calls it now) allow. \r\n\r\nCarol
    used to say she could not bear to draw in anything else. \r\n\r\nI believe the
    code is owned by Adobe now . . . . which swallowed up the brilliant engineers
    who did that (and Chameleon, etc. etc.) and were never heard of again -- was Russ
    McCann the lead? Yes, see http://www.ucmsds.com/company/who_officers.cfm for what
    has become of him. I wonder who actually does own the code still? But I'm pretty
    sure it's Adobe. Hey, does anyone have a Chameleon beta 2? "
  created: '2007-04-13 19:40:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Somewhere I might still have my copy of FontStudio but I cannot imagine it
    would run on current systems. I remember liking the way the nodes would turn to
    large black circles just as they would join, indicating a proper connection.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-13 19:47:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I wanted the extra precision\r\n\r\nBut it's a deceptively dangerous precision,
    since when you generate a font it all gets rounded to integers anyway. If you
    want more precision you use a larger EM, but that limits you to TT fonts, in which
    case your precision is toast if you draw in cubic beziers (since they get converted,
    not supremely faithfully, to quadratics).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-13 19:50:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You can draw type 1  otf flavored fonts at greater than 1000 units. I have
    used both 2000 and 2048 without issue. This may not have been true a few years
    ago pre opentype but I am not sure about that part. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-13 20:23:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But the point is no size of integer EM during output is going to match a
    floating-point scheme during design. With floating-point you're always working
    with a degree of precision that will get amputated, unmanageably.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-13 20:29:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yes, but you are not stuck with 1000 units in type one and the floating point
    issue still holds for TrueType as well. FontLab takes away the options that can
    get badly missrepresented with rounding but it makes the drawing \"seem\" too
    coarse.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-13 20:51:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Those quotes being critical there.\r\n\r\n> you are not stuck with 1000 units\r\n\r\nIt
    depends who you're designing for.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-13 21:20:37'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">> I wanted the extra precision\r\n>But it\u2019s a deceptively dangerous
    precision, since when you generate a font it all gets rounded to integers anyway.
    If you want more precision you use a larger EM, but that limits you to TT fonts,
    in which case your precision is toast if you draw in cubic beziers (since they
    get converted, not supremely faithfully, to quadratics).\r\n\r\nYou're missing
    the point, Hrant. How type gets processed today is a temporary thing; PostScript
    and TrueType weren't the first digital systems for processing type, and they won't
    be the last. There are designers who are unhappy about the current limitations
    of PS and TT. (Just think about a sans Z -- you may want it raised it 1/2 or 3/4
    of a unit off the baseline; you don't want it by a full unit, to give a very simple
    example; you may take that if it's all you can get, but you know it's not the
    ideal.). Just ask Bitstream if they're going to throw away their master data at
    15,000 units just because an inferior system has sway for this decade and last
    decade, but certainly not the next, or the one after that, unless it gains a little
    more precision. You want the satisfaction of knowing that, however you output
    your type today, you can design it to higher resolution and you can confidently
    hope that one day it will be possible for it to be outputted at higher resolution.\r\n\r\nThe
    other overwhelming reason for higher precision is to avoid the round-off errors
    that often occur during transformation operations. Serioius Fontlab and Robofab
    users now have some facility for doing this, but it all seems kludgy.\r\n\r\nChris,
    I am running FontStudio 2.02 Beta 1 Plus under Classic on OS 10.4.8, and don't
    seem to notice any problems. All this and the code is just over 1MB. "
  created: '2007-04-13 22:52:24'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: Berthold had the same concerns about the PS conversions of their full-res
    Ikarus data, and their concerns were essentially laid to rest. Adapting type designs
    to fit an 18 or 24 unit system is a problem; 1000 units really isn't all that
    shabby. And, as has been pointed out, you're welcome to work at any scale you
    want. Keep the data and see what happens. I just think that whatever design you
    come up with, fitting the curve elements onto a 1000-unit grid is not much of
    a compromise. It's simply one of the challenges of the current format, and given
    all the other advantages we have (wild kerns, contextual substitution, excruciating
    precision, huge character sets, limitless design options, overlapping shapes),
    it's not a deal-breaker.
  created: '2007-04-13 23:50:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> How type gets processed today is a temporary thing\r\n\r\nTemporary? For
    an oak tree maybe. For actual users it's Reality.\r\n\r\n> Just ask Bitstream
    if they\u2019re going to throw\r\n> away their master data at 15,000 units\r\n\r\nPlease
    re-read what I wrote about large EMs vs floating point.\r\n\r\n> 1000 units really
    isn\u2019t all that shabby.\r\n\r\nIt's not shabby as a design space, but it's
    very\r\nmuch problematic as a \"blind rounding\" space.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-14 00:55:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>Because what\u2019s hard to pull off is being called a philosopher
    a couple of millennia after you\u2019re dead. Of those, the only female we seem
    to have is Sappho.</em>\r\n\r\nThere are actually quite a lot of female philosophers
    of antiquity, of whom Hypatia of Alexandria is probably the most famous; during
    her life, she was considered by many the most important neo-platonist of either
    sex. Sappho was a lyric poet, and while you might find some of her verse 'philosophical'
    -- which is today used as a synonym for thought-provoking -- it generally does
    not fit the classical understanding of philosophy. It is significant that Sappho's
    name does <em>not</em> appear in this list, for example,\r\n\r\nhttp://www.geocities.com/athens/forum/9974/old.html"
  created: '2007-04-14 01:19:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: By the way, speaking of women philosophers of antiquity, the one who should
    be best known to typographers is Diotima, after whom Gudrun Zapf von Hesse named
    one of her typefaces.
  created: '2007-04-14 01:22:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it generally does not fit the classical understanding of philosophy.\r\n\r\nIt
    doesn't fit the <cite>contemporary mainstream formal Western</cite> definition
    of philosophy.\r\n\r\nAnd it remains that Sappho is the only one familiar to most
    people. This is something everybody, including people immersed in formal philosophy,
    need to come to grips with.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-14 01:28:52'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Hrant, do you mean this?\r\n\r\n>But the point is no size of integer EM during
    output is going to match a floating-point scheme during design. With floating-point
    you\u2019re always working with a degree of precision that will get amputated,
    unmanageably. \r\n\r\nI think you are wrong but don't worry, nobody expects you
    to admit it. I suspect that when we speak of floating point points, we are in
    practice still speaking of a limited degree of float. I doubt the Fog database
    format stores data to more than two decimal places. Suppose there was one decimal
    place: that would be a space of 10,000 units; if there were two decimal palces,
    that would be 100,000 units. Yuri would know. \r\n\r\nPostscript will sooner or
    later move to floating point because it has nowhere else to go -- in fact, David
    Lemon has explained that to a certain extent it already has done so. (I don't
    recall exactly how to get it to work, but apparently it _can_ work.) I can see
    all kinds of benefits to this precision even where there the output cannot resolve
    the available precision. For example, hinting algorithms could be much more accurate,
    couldn't they? "
  created: '2007-04-14 16:53:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sure, if the decimal places are severly limited it would be the same (and
    I do mean the same - as in no point doing it!) as a large EM - although as you
    see even two decimal places is equivalent to an EM much bigger than anybody uses.
    But it's probably not limited to anything that small, because of the way floating
    point numbers are typically represented in computers (what they sacrifice is precision
    in very small differences).\r\n\r\nNow if I'm wrong, I'll have no problem admitting
    it. In the interim though I think you might want to <cite>admit</cite> that a
    lack of mathematical affinity is most likely causing you confusion.  :-)\r\n\r\n>
    I can see all kinds of benefits to this precision\r\n\r\nThere are <cite>hypothetical</cite>
    benefits, but <cite>practical</cite> drawbacks.\r\nYou choose.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-14 17:37:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, I just noticed something interesting about the sexual orientation business:
    opposition to the philosophy angle is rife, but nobody seems to mind the stand-up
    comedian angle!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-14 17:49:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "But Hrant, who are these people who think of Sappho as a philosopher rather
    than as a poet? I simply have not come across this view before. It seems to me
    both highly unlikely and unsupported by a) the relatively few and fragmentary
    surviving writings by her and b) her reputation in classical Greece. Her writing
    is lyrical poetry mainly concerned with love. Hence, she is known as a lyrical
    poet. And a very fine one. This isn't in any way do dismiss her wisdom, which
    Aristotle acknowledged, but the ancients made a distinction between philosophy
    and wisdom literature that our language doesn't reflect very well.\r\n\r\nJust
    to be clear: I'm not saying Sappho was any the less for being a poet rather than
    a philosopher. Heck, I'd rather read poetry than philosophy any day of the week."
  created: '2007-04-15 03:09:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Forget Sappho - she is many degrees of relevance away from all this.\r\nThink
    instead of why most people cannot name a female philosopher.\r\nIs it <cite>all</cite>
    due to institutionalized chauvinism and/or gender-based social\r\nexpectation?
    I don't buy that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-15 04:27:52'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I don't either Hrant.\r\n\r\nThere is much crossover but there are also pursuits
    where gender difference is more clear cut.\r\n\r\nIt makes the dance more interesting\u2026\r\n\r\n\u2026and
    I'm about to get slaughtered. :)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-04-15 05:11:19'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "This thread had some interesting comments that helped me to go trough all
    of it's lenght.\r\n\r\nWhich are those professions or occupations where women
    outnumber man? Dance would be one of them, maybe education, fashion, interior
    design and graphic design (there were at least twice woman than man when I was
    at design school). What else?\r\n\r\nIn Mx figures show that women are starting
    to slightly outnumber man on may careers at the universities with better grades
    also. This trend will show in a few years on the professional world.\r\n\r\nI
    must admit this pleases me because it's a sign of reivindication but also scares
    a bit the little macho in me... I guess many man live these times with the satisfaction
    of knowing that a fairest world is being achieved for woman and man but also with
    the slight fear of lossing ground. I don't know, maybe it's just me exposing my
    own prejudice.\r\n\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2007-04-15 08:07:36'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">But Hrant, who are these people who think of Sappho as a philosopher rather
    than as a poet?\r\n\r\nAh.\r\n\r\n>Think instead of why most people cannot name
    a female philosopher.\r\n\r\nMaybe they're confusing them with poets."
  created: '2007-04-15 14:23:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>Think instead of why most people cannot name a female philosopher.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    imagine a lot of people can't name a philosopher of either sex. If they can, chances
    are that it is a long-dead philosopher. If you take into account that women were
    excluded from the institutions of higher education for so long, that the university,
    for most of its history, was a specifically masculine academy, while at the same
    time the university became the seat of philosophy, I think it is pretty obvious
    why most people cannot name a female philosopher. The framework within which philosophy
    has been predominantly pursued in the west for seven or eight hundred years has
    only relatively recently been open to women.\r\n\r\n\r\nBy the way, on the subject
    of lesbianism and its connection to the island of Lesbos, I chanced to receive
    via an ancient near east listerve today a review of a new book on 'sex and gender
    in ancient Greece and Rome', which included these interesting comments:\r\n\r\n<em>Regarding
    the toponymic Greek verb lesbiazein \"to perform fellatio,\" Krenkel is misled
    (p. 207) by the prejudice, as old as Hesychius, that the verb etymologically means
    \"to act like a woman from Lesbos,\" while the ancient testimonia rather indicate
    that the euphemism rather means to act like \"a person (i.e. either man or woman,
    indiscriminately) from Lesbos.\" A small point, true, but perhaps one that may
    throw light both of the verb itself as well as potential biasses in the glosses
    of Hesychius. On the next page, Krenkel also incorrectly states that the Greek
    verb phoinikizein (etymologically, \"to act like a Phoenician\") also means \"to
    perform fellatio,\" when it actually means \"to perform cunnilingus.\" Again,
    a point like this matters, not only for lexicographers who collect such things,
    but because it bears on the interpretation of literary texts; thus, for instance,
    when we find that a prostitute in Plautus' Pseudolus is named \"Phoenicium,\"
    (Phoinik-ion) her name does not really imply \"Miss Suckly\" (as once suggested
    by W. M. Calder III in CP 70 [1975] p. 147, and quoted with approval by Krenkel
    p. 208 n. 8), and thereby indicate that fellatio is the special services which
    she performs for her clients; Plautus is rather openly and constantly advertising
    the predilections of her rival clients Calidorus (cf. his snivelling in Scene
    1) and the Macedonian soldier (\"dentatus\" [!], v. 1040), and the privileges
    for which they are all too happy to pay her. (One could perhaps compare the famous
    fresco from the apodyterium of the terme suburbane in Pompeii, reproduced as fig.
    14 in Antonio Varone's Erotica Pompeiana [Rome, 1994], p. 207.)</em>\r\n\r\nSo
    there you have it: Lesbos wasn't known for its lesbians, but notorious for its
    fellatalists of both sexes.\r\n\r\n[I've only skimmed this long and bizarre thread,
    and I still don't quite understand how Sappho and the Lesbians/lesbians got involved!]"
  created: '2007-04-15 20:41:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I imagine a lot of people can\u2019t name a philosopher of either sex.\r\n\r\nWhen
    it comes to what I said, <cite>most</cite>, you imagine wrong.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-15 21:01:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Yes, but my basic point remains: philosophy has for a very long time been
    pursued almost exclusively within the context of institutions that were not open
    to women*, so the reason why most people can't name a female philsopher is linked
    to the fact there have not been very many women philosophers until recently, and
    they are still a minority in the philosophy departments of universities. [I happen
    to know some female philsophers personally.]\r\n\r\nMost people cannot name any
    female soccer players either. But of the people who can name an opera singer I'm
    sure all could name a female opera singer, and pretty much everyone can name a
    female pop singer.\r\n\r\n*There is, by the way, a significant body of 'philsophical'
    writing, in the broader sense encompassing wisdom literature, by women that comes
    out of monastic institutions, and this includes works of philosophy as well as
    theology. Edith Stein is a good recent example of someone who studied philosophy
    (specifically, phenomenology, within the context of the monastic life."
  created: '2007-04-15 22:40:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're consistently skirting my basic premise: that social \"role-pressures\"
    cannot <cite>fully</cite> account for the lop-sidedness. Which is unsurprising
    based simply on the conviction that it does not make sense for there to be no
    fundamental differences between men and women. What does your religion say about
    this?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-15 23:03:17'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>Think instead of why most people cannot name a female philosopher.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    hope I've done my bit to help with that, by naming my new typeface after one.
    \ :)\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-04-15 23:57:57'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: This is the craziest thread ever.
  created: '2007-04-16 04:40:32'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "You've been here for 27 weeks 3 days - give it some time\u2026 :)\r\n\r\nMy
    theory is that men live in a more artificial universe.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-04-16 05:46:41'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Maybe it's time to start posting more names of type designers who happen to
    be women.
  created: '2007-04-16 06:48:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Gayaneh Bagdasaryan.\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/person/bagdasaryan/gayaneh/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-16 07:19:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Carol Twombly and Marion Anderson recently sang a duet from \"Der ShrifterSinger\"
    at a meeting of the \"Philosophers Society and Typographers Union\" to a standing
    ovation. Jesse Norman was quoted as saying, \"Now THAT is what I cal a DEBUT!\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-16 17:01:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>You\u2019re consistently skirting my basic premise: that social
    \u201Crole-pressures\u201D cannot fully account for the lop-sidedness. Which is
    unsurprising based simply on the conviction that it does not make sense for there
    to be no fundamental differences between men and women. What does your religion
    say about this?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not skirting your basic premise. I think 'role
    pressures' is to vague a concept to which to nail anything, so I was looking at
    concrete systemic reasons that might account for the relatively few number of
    women in the history of philosophy. And it seems to me that the fact that there
    are now considerable numbers of women in the philosophy departments of universities
    does suggest that the previous barring of women from such positions is a contributing
    factor. As I wrote, I know some women philosophers.\r\n\r\nYes, there are fundamental
    differences between men and women, but before one can assume a causal relationship
    between these differences and particular social phenomena one must also look at
    potential social causes."
  created: '2007-04-17 00:34:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I was looking at concrete systemic reasons\r\n\r\nYes, I know, that's always
    the problem.\r\n\r\n> one must also look at potential social causes.\r\n\r\nObvious
    and moot.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-17 00:45:07'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/caveman_5015.jpg]'
  created: '2007-04-17 01:42:11'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Yeah, like Hrant would ever admit that....  ;-)
  created: '2007-04-17 01:58:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Aren't there like seven intelligenceses or something? How many you want lady?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-17 04:20:25'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: ">>> I was looking at concrete systemic reasons\r\n>>> Yes, I know, that\u2019s
    always the problem.\r\n\r\nLol. So you're suggesting intuition, gut instinct,
    or a message from the Virgin Mary as better methods? \r\n\r\nThe subject of what
    drives people to make the choices they do, or be interested in particular pursuits/careers/hobbies
    is so wide, deep, and encompassing that I am certain we will not be able to reduce
    it to either social pressure or innate, gender-determined preferences to the exclusion
    of other motivating factors. Nor will we arrive at a definitive conclusion in
    this thread. People are a helluva lot more complex than that--women too. Arguing
    for or against either position is just ridiculous, ignorant, or playing devil's
    advocat. Oh wait! Or men being typically (naturally?) pig-headed. (oops, did I
    say that out loud?) ;)\r\n\r\nC'mon! Give it up already. \r\n\r\nI find, going
    back to the original post, that the whole concept of wanting to know if a type
    designer is married or has children somewhat suspect to begin with. Who cares?
    Is it really pertinent to the validity or success of the typeface, or to the designer's
    ability? Not so much. Incidental, environmental. Ok sure, we could say some things
    about overcoming obstacles and the demands of raising a family or the sacrifices
    required by certain social situations. We could also draw some very nebulous conclusions
    about soft lines and sweet bezier curves or hard angular lines and gender preference,
    we could even get into the length of the descender, the shape of the bowls and
    counters... but would you really reduce a person's professional achievements to
    such inanities? And if so, they must be equally pertinent when looking at male
    designers, although I would suspect in their case, the family/gender/sexuality
    issue is generally entirely ignored.\r\n\r\nStart first by looking at the artist's
    art, not at the artist. \r\n\r\nThe things that make me tick, you would never
    entirely -- not even largely -- deduce from my gender. The reasons I have made
    the choices, had the successes, had the failures that I have in my life are far
    too varied and layered to be reduced to merely my gender or my social environment.
    To suggest that they might be somehow dulls the human experience, don't you think?
    \r\n\r\nDiscussing gender theory, identity, sexual politics, and societal-gender
    factors is great, but let's not confuse it with making sweeping generalizations
    about either sex based on feelings or impressions. Perhaps we could even discuss
    it for what it is, without using our generalizations, assumptions and hearsay
    to draw conclusions about a specific person.\r\n\r\n/grumbles off to bed."
  created: '2007-04-17 04:45:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I am certain we will not be able to reduce it to either\r\n> social pressure
    or innate, gender-determined preferences\r\n> to the exclusion of other motivating
    factors.\r\n\r\nNot more certain than I am.\r\n\r\n> Start first by looking at
    the artist\u2019s art, not at the artist.\r\n\r\nFirst, shmirst. You look at as
    much as you can.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-17 05:38:44'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Yeah, like Hrant would ever admit that\u2026. ;-)</em>\r\n\r\n:-D\r\n\r\nKristina,
    everything you said... hear, hear!\r\n\r\nAnd Hrant, you were only able to come
    up with <strong>one</strong> female type designer? Come on, make an effort, <strong>man</strong>!\r\n\r\nI
    just want to make a scientific argument that, before our gender is determined,
    four weeks after fertilization, <a href=\"http://medicine.jrank.org/pages/2842/Sex-Determination.html\">we
    <strong>are</strong> all the same</a>.\r\n\r\nP.S. No one noticed that I set the
    word balloon of the caveman drawing in Lithos...  *sigh*"
  created: '2007-04-17 06:22:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yay, let's hear it for three-week-embryo type designers!!\r\n\r\n> I set
    the word balloon of the caveman drawing in Lithos\u2026\r\n\r\nShame on you -
    you <cite>must</cite> have meant that all Greeks are cavemen.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-17 06:34:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">This is the craziest thread ever.\r\n\r\nChristopher, do a typophile search
    on \"Fidel\" and \"Rolex\" ;-)"
  created: '2007-04-17 07:35:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ricardo,\r\nI noticed that the caveman baloon was in Lithos but did not get
    it beyond that.  I guess I am losing it to a senior moment :-) Care to \"Splen
    it to me Lucy?\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-17 13:05:35'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Hrant: <em>Aren\u2019t there like seven intelligenceses or something? How
    many you want lady?</em>\r\n\r\nROFLMAO!  \"Self-referential\" doesn't count,
    though.\r\n\r\nRicardo: <em>P.S. No one noticed that I set the word balloon of
    the caveman drawing in Lithos\u2026 *sigh*\r\n\r\nwaving hand</em>\r\n\r\nMe,
    me, I did: just thought it was so obvious that it would have been poor form on
    my part to point it out.\r\n\r\nNo, really...."
  created: '2007-04-17 15:09:05'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Yeah, you're right Linda... It was too obvious to be mentioned.\r\n\r\n<em>I
    noticed that the caveman baloon was in Lithos but did not get it beyond that.</em>\r\n\r\nChris,
    the caveman thing needs some explaining because I was trying to be subtle and
    go easy on the people airing their views about the supposed differences between
    men and women... I was trying to say that these views of man's supposed superiority
    have been superceded, proved wrong, et cetera! I was originally gonna look for
    a picture of cavemen arguing, or maybe even a caveman dragging a woman around
    by the hair...  :-D\r\n\r\nIn the end I went with the idea that even a caveman
    sees that women are superior... Trying to make my point without hitting anybody
    over the head with my club, so to speak...  ;-) But probably I was too subtle
    or obscure... And, uh, should I also say that the caveman is quoting an old song
    that both Harry Belafonte and Robert Palmer used to sing?  :-)"
  created: '2007-04-17 17:23:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> these views of man\u2019s supposed superiority\r\n\r\n<strong>Nobody ever
    said that here, least of all me!</strong>\r\n\r\nJust because such idiocy has
    been common, and in fact often institutionalized, doesn't make it a good idea
    to lash out blindly. You'll hit friendlies.\r\n\r\nWhat I'm trying to fight is
    idiocy in an opposite extreme: that there are no <cite>differences</cite> between
    men and women. This is an increasing problem, especially in the West, and it's
    turning us <cite>all</cite> into objects - machines for making the rich richer.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-17 17:43:26'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: 'Hrant: Seconding that!'
  created: '2007-04-17 17:47:24'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Hrant is spot on - no one said one gender was superior. That is your inference
    and hence, perhaps your bias.\r\n\r\nWe should celebrate the difference, not hide
    it\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-04-17 17:58:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"But probably I was too subtle or obscure\u2026 And, uh, should I also say
    that the caveman is quoting an old song that both Harry Belafonte\"\r\n\r\nRicardo,\r\nI
    understood the cartoon  right away (and I know the Belafonte song too \"Smarter
    than the man in every way\"). I just did not get what was significant about the
    choice of Lithos as a typeface. I know Lithos means stone but beyond that, is
    there something more?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-17 18:26:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey for a rousing feminist you sure don't know your women!\r\nLithos was
    designed by Twombly.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-17 18:44:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I know it was designed by Twombly but this thread hasn't been talking about
    her for days so It never occured to me (he said while trying to figure out what
    a rousing feminist was and how he got to be one all of a sudden).\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS:
    I know that I don't know women. I am not that naive. I also know that there are
    no women who are \"My Women\"."
  created: '2007-04-17 18:52:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yeah, she's only in the title of the thread.\r\nJust be a man ;-) and admit
    you missed it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-17 19:02:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Why do I even bother to feed the Troll.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-17 19:04:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>This is an increasing problem, especially in the West,</em>\r\n\r\nTo
    me, it seems that things are going backwards since 20/30 years ago, with sexual
    identity in the West becoming more polarized and cliched, and that surely is far
    easier for capitalists to manipulate and objectify, as sex sells. Just track the
    increasing sexualization of My Little Pony over the years, or compare Barbie with
    Bratz. Pretty soon Mommy will be putting makeup on baby girls, and giving Jnr
    a military buzzcut every bathtime.  \r\nSo while not denying that there are innate
    physical differences between people, I'd prefer to ignore them, especially in
    the professional world.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MLP1_4990.jpg]\r\n1984\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MLP2_4453.jpg]\r\n2007"
  created: '2007-04-17 19:08:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> sexual identity in the West becoming more polarized and cliched\r\n\r\nTrue,
    but this is largely superficial. When it comes to \"serious\" social debate the
    total lack of poles is even more worrisome. As for what capitalism leverages,
    selling more products thanks to gender difference is one thing, making slaves
    more plentiful and more pliant is another.\r\n\r\n> I\u2019d prefer to ignore\r\n\r\nWon't
    be the first thing [in type].\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-17 19:17:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Won\u2019t be the first thing [in type].</em>\r\n\r\nWait till you see
    my Bulgarian Cyrillics."
  created: '2007-04-17 19:31:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, I trust that true to form you've firmly ignored any advice from Bulgarians.
    Except that guy you had lunch with once, although these days he calls himself
    Canadian.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-17 19:36:12'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "If they have Canadian French, there is no reason for them not to have Canadian
    Bulgarian. I'm looking forward to seeing it :)\r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-04-17 21:45:11'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i'm quite certain that Nick's Bulgarian Cyrillics will be well-informed, and
    he'll probably be the first western type designer to even take Bulgarian preferences
    into consideration!
  created: '2007-04-17 22:51:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There is quite a big Greektown in Toronto as well, Adam :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-17 22:57:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>i\u2019m quite certain that Nick\u2019s Bulgarian Cyrillics will be well-informed,
    and he\u2019ll probably be the first western type designer to even take Bulgarian
    preferences into consideration!</em>\r\n\r\nNo not the first. Luc(as) de Groot
    has holidayed in Bulgaria and I believe has incorporated Bulgarian variant forms
    into some of his fonts.\r\n\r\nMore interestingly, although contentiously, there
    is some evidence that those Bulgarian preferences were actually invented by a
    western type designer. Albert Kapr, from the Hochschule in Leipzig, was very involved
    with the development of design education in Bulgaria in the 1960s, and according
    to Maxim there is some evidence that at least some of the Bulgarian variant letterforms
    originate in Kapr's ideas. Some, like the ascending lowercase zhe, are also found
    in certain styles of Russian script types, but the application of these features
    to all styles of type, as in Bulgaria, seems to be a novelty."
  created: '2007-04-18 00:29:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://typophile.com/node/4933 _\r\nSearch for \"Bulgarian\".\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I think Bulgarians consider themselves \"westerners\".\r\nOn the other side of
    the coin, some people would claim that\r\nLeipzig is on the border.  :-)\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW,
    with this new Central European digression I now agree with Christopher: although
    a lot of threads have been crazy, this one, with its combination of sex, contentious
    claims and very broad spectrum just might be the craziest (so far).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-18 00:44:57'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I think Bulgarians consider themselves \u201Cwesterners\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nI'm
    sure they do. I met a Polish woman once that explained how Poland was the center
    of Europe. i'm still not quite sure i buy it... but if you include Russia in Europe,
    it might be true."
  created: '2007-04-18 00:51:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If you include Russia friggin' Kazakhstan is the center of Europe.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-18 00:54:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Everyone knows the center of Europe is Thessaloniki :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-18 01:10:47'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em> > these views of man\u2019s supposed superiority</em>\r\n\r\n<em><strong>Nobody
    ever said that here, least of all me!</strong></em>\r\n\r\n<em>Just because such
    idiocy has been common, and in fact often institutionalized, doesn\u2019t make
    it a good idea to lash out blindly. You\u2019ll hit friendlies.</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    Hrant, all of your arguments made it sound -- to me at least, granted -- that
    you <em>were</em> implying that... If all you wanted to say was that men and women
    are different, you should have just said so.  :-)"
  created: '2007-04-18 03:24:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This is typical. The more angry somebody is at something* and the more powerless
    he is against it the more he <cite>imagines</cite> its presence, in order to be
    able to react to the perceived injustice instead of looking at the sad scene in
    the mirror.\r\n\r\n* In your case, men?\r\n\r\n> you should have just said so.\r\n\r\nYou
    sound like Inspector Clouseau.\r\n\r\nIf you're serious, think deeply (and to
    yourself for\r\na while) about what this Difference truly implies.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-18 03:45:44'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Ooooooh, hitting below the belt.\r\n\r\nThat is completely uncalled for,
    Hrant. OK, so now you're saying not-very-nice things about me... Whatever lets
    you come out on top, I guess...\r\n\r\nThanks a lot for getting nasty with me."
  created: '2007-04-18 04:07:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Work on your apology skills (not to mention your reading skills) and things
    are likely to improve for you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-18 04:08:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Yes, I trust that true to form you\u2019ve firmly ignored any advice
    from Bulgarians.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm assuming that the alphabetic forms represented
    in the fonts published by Hermes Soft are correct. In general, I favour doing
    research over getting advice, although I did attend the Maxim Zhukov TDC seminar
    on Cyrillics earlier this year.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-18 05:46:52'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Poland <strong>is</strong> in the geographical centre of the European continent.
    This is largely due to the fact that the European part of Russia is quite large
    (though of course it's nothing compared to the Asian part of Russia). \r\n\r\nIf
    you look at this map (which correctly shows the European part of Russia) then
    Poland really looks like being very much in the middle (along with Germany): \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mapeurope_6227.gif]\r\n\r\nThis
    is the reason why the Polish (along with the Czechs, Slovaks and Hungarians) like
    to insist that they're \"Central European\" and not \"East European\" countries.
    I believe after the extension of the EU this distinction is actually bearing some
    sense \u2014 one can reserve the term \"East European\" for Cyrillic-written countries
    such as Russia, Ukraine or Belarus, while the Central European ones are those
    that used to be Eastern, aspire to be Western but aren't quite there yet. \r\n\r\nOf
    course, if you exclude Russia from Europe completely, and disregard the notion
    of \"Central\" Europe, then even Hamburg is an Eastern European city. ;)\r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-04-18 12:10:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Yes, 'mental geography' vs real geography is amusing. Here in the US we tend
    to think of South America as directly South of the US, but in fact the bulk of
    it is east of Boston. \r\n\r\nWe think of Stockholm and Vienna as 'Western' and
    Prague and Gdansk as 'Eastern'. But actually Stockholm is pretty much straight
    north of Gdansk and Vienna is pretty far East of Prague. \r\n\r\nAnd Africa is
    six times the size of Europe.\r\n\r\nAnd Chicago is further from San Francisco
    than London is from Moscow..."
  created: '2007-04-18 13:12:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't know, Adam. It looks like Slovakia edges out Poland for center--and
    it's a \"green\" State :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-18 13:18:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>If you include Russia friggin\u2019 Kazakhstan is the center of
    Europe.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think anyone seriously considers including <em>all</em>
    of Russia in Europe. Russia is perhaps unique in occupying two continents. Europe
    stops at the Urals."
  created: '2007-04-19 00:50:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The problem is people seriously try to figure out where the center of Europe
    is at all. The concept of \"Western\" is very valid; trying to nail down its geography
    is not.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-19 00:57:19'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Hi, Hrant. I come in peace. \r\n\r\nI just want to say that I was not trying
    to offend or anger you. Should I avoid generalizations? Yes! Should I read more
    carefully? Yes!! Is this an apology? Yes!!!\r\n\r\nStill friends? No hard feelings?\r\n\r\nRicardo"
  created: '2007-04-21 23:10:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thanks for apologizing. For my part, I was too harsh - I'm sorry.\r\n\r\nThat
    said, please don't stop generalizing!  :->\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-21 23:24:58'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "This thread was one of the longest and most fascinating and delightful threads
    I've ever read at Typophile.\r\n\r\nMost of the topics are rightly about the  minutiae
    of type design and the finer points of typography, layout, design, readability,
    and legibility. And there are the inevitable poseurs and posturers that come out
    of the woodwork (my font, idea, opinion, my [fill in the blank_____] can beat
    up yours, was there first, etc.).\r\n\r\nBut it sure is nice to read about the
    trials and tribulations of real people in in the workaday world and what they
    go through to bring us the type we use. I thank all who contributed to this thread.
    But I especially want to thank Bill Troop. I tried to contact him outside this
    forum, to no avail, so the only way I can convey my gratitude for his contribution
    is via this forum."
  created: '2007-05-06 12:54:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "He might or might not see this soon, so if you give me your email\r\nI'll
    pass it along to him. Mine is: hpapazian_at_gmail_dot_com\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-06 14:10:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sans commentaire:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/entertainment/6634255.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-09 01:51:09'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "It's good to read typophile again :-)\r\n(That smiley stands for a real smile.)\r\n\r\nIf
    it's still relevant, Adobe Caslon is one of the two digital types I find most
    endlessly enjoyable to look at. I'd rather see headlines in it than in Big Caslon.
    (Does anyone else dislike both Big Caslon and Caslon's large sizes? I hope they
    weren't by Wm Caslon I, whose text sizes were inconsistent in everything but their
    excellence.)"
  created: '2007-05-10 03:01:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>It\u2019s good to read typophile again :-)</em>\r\n\r\nAccess denied
    during term?"
  created: '2007-05-10 03:29:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "According to James Mosley's notes to the reprint of Caslon's 1766 specimen
    book, most of the large sizes were done by Caslon I, though some are by others.
    \r\n\r\nOf course Big Caslon has a lot of Matthew Carter in it also. Another take
    on the large sizes is Caslon 540, originally from ATF. Do you dislike that as
    well?\r\n\r\nCaslon I has much more logic to his alphabets and different sizes
    than is obvious; it has only taken me a couple of years full time to figure this
    out :) \r\n\r\nI don't agree with your assessment of Adobe Caslon, and in particular
    that it does well at large sizes. Carol Twombly herself said it shouldn't be used
    at large sizes. For starters, at large sizes the flat-top serifs on the Roman
    have a 'bone effect' that I find unattractive. "
  created: '2007-05-10 03:30:19'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Hi Nick, I've been increasingly unwell, and had to quit Reading. Things may
    be looking up, but I'm getting on a bit and should probably earn some money at
    some stage. I've had a set of ideas for what I hope could be a really worthwhile
    text face, now a very long way from Griffo; but (a) I still can't draw and (b)
    I don't know FontLab well enough to do the necessary OpenType stuff for context-sensitive
    serifs; there's also (c) of course, which is that, as a first type, it's going
    to be ****, though a long crit-tweak cycle might help.\r\n\r\nThanks William,
    though there goes my hope. (No, I don't like 540 either.) When you say Caslon
    I has much more logic to his alphabets and different sizes than is obvious, do
    you mean his text sizes too? I'd love to hear more about that. As for Adobe Caslon,
    I don't mean to say that it \"works\" at large sizes, just that it gives me an
    always-pleasant opportunity to admire its design. Your own work on Caslon must
    have made you more discriminating. Will you write up, or have you already, your
    thinking about Caslon, and about the development of your Caslon Next?"
  created: '2007-05-10 04:24:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Will you write up, or have you already\r\n\r\nI did talk about it at TypeCon
    last summer. It has changed significantly since then as well as expanded. I hope
    I when I next talk or write about it, it will be finished.\r\n\r\nAnd yes, the
    text sizes too. There is also a lot of just random variation too, so that makes
    it harder to pin down what makes it great, and separate the logic from what was
    a case of needing to get it out the door--which I am increasingly appreciating
    :) \r\n\r\nVery sorry to hear that you had to drop out of Reading. I do hope you
    are well now. "
  created: '2007-05-10 04:38:28'
- author:
    name: blondie_border
    picture: 113422
  body: Does anyone know how i can get a hold of softbluecries1? I have to do a presentation
    on Carol as well for my typographic class and would like to compare research.
    I'm new to this website and can't figure out how to get in touch with her
  created: '2007-10-24 17:19:21'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Lindsey you can contact softblue <a href="http://typophile.com/user/17002/contact">through
    their profile</a>
  created: '2007-10-25 01:01:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So what about that stand-up comic business after all, eh?\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/health/7153584.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-21 06:04:22'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Hrant! Long time no.
  created: '2007-12-21 06:12:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Happy New Year, Hrant!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-12-21 13:48:12'
- author:
    name: asgeirhm
  body: "> A 22-page (!) article on Carol Twombly and her type design work at Adobe
    in the early 90s can be found in Design Graphics magazine, issue #4.\r\n\r\nHas
    anybody still got that article? Looks like DG has removed the back issues offer.\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-03 02:32:00'
- author:
    name: methylene
  body: "About one year after your first post on this thread, I find myself researching
    the very same Carol Twombly for typography class... Thanks, Heather, for what
    you started here, I'm new to design altogether and type is something I have grown
    to love in the last couple of weeks. Reading all this about her and other random
    things makes me realize I have so much to learn, and it's exciting :]\r\n\r\n.m"
  created: '2008-05-19 22:00:13'
- author:
    name: PHAEL0N
  body: "wow..\r\n\r\nIt seems as if I'm not the only one in search of the mystique
    that is Carol Twombl(e)y.\r\n\r\nIts been a VERY interesting, educating, and opinionated
    thread to have read through.\r\n\r\nIm currently in a design program and studying
    typefaces in a Typography design class. If anyone else has relative information
    factual or fictional, please post a link or share indeed.\r\n\r\nand if BOJEV
    is still out there pleeease contact me (twentysix26@juno.com) so I can possibly
    get the scan of Carol you have with the vertical Trajan alphabet. Trajan is the
    particular font Im studying and that scan would prove amazing for my poster design
    ideas. \r\n\r\nThanks\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-23 04:20:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/health/7456588.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-17 04:55:07'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Damm you!!!!!\r\n\r\nMikey ;O)"
  created: '2008-06-17 21:46:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just to be crystal:\r\n1) I don't necessarily believe every word of that.\r\n2)
    I'm not claiming one is better; I'd simply like to see\r\nmore people acknowledge
    -and even relish- differences.\r\n\r\nEquality is death.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-18 03:00:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Wow, the thread that wouldn't die gets yet more surreal.\r\n\r\nThe thing
    that tends to get overlooked when scientists discover a natural cause for a particular
    sexual attraction or predilection, as with observation of the occurrence of various
    kinds of sexual activity among other species, is that natural cause doesn't imply
    anything about morality. There's a romantic tendency to assume that everything
    that is 'natural' is morally good or at least morally neutral, which misses the
    point that morality can only be connected to nature via metaphysics, e.g. through
    a theology of creation; without such a metaphysics, morality is confined to the
    human social realm. The fact that some people appear to be genetically predisposed
    to be attracted to the same sex doesn't imply that sex between people of the same
    sex is moral, any more than the fact that very large numbers of men are apparently
    genetically disposed to be attracted to dozens women in the course of the average
    day (presuming they live in a sufficiently large urban evironment) doesn't imply
    that promiscuity is moral. Nor does the fact that homosexual behaviour is observable
    among other species mean that it is morally neutral: gang rape and necrophilia
    are also observed among other species. Which is <em>not</em> to equate these things,
    only to point out the fallaciousness of making moral arguments from nature."
  created: '2008-06-18 06:59:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You remind me of a cartoon I saw in my college paper in the previous century
    where during a fair the Gay & Lesbian Club attacks the Necrophilia Club for being
    immoral and disgusting. However this, sadly, is not a cartoon.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-18 14:27:38'
- author:
    name: marybethmudgettodnnell
    picture: 116901
  body: "Hello All.\r\n\r\nI was looking for Carol, too.\r\nCarol and I atteneded
    the same High School\r\nand many of the same Art classes.\r\nI think of her often
    and her nick name for me.....\"fung\"\r\n\r\nIf anyone knows where I might reach
    her, \r\nplease email me at mbmudgett5@gmail.com\r\n\r\nMary Beth (Mudgett) ODonnell\r\nI
    hope to get back here soon, but if anyone would like to email me, or her, \r\nthat
    would be so appreciated,\r\n\r\nThanks so much,\r\nMary Beth Mudgett ODonnell\r\nMassachusetts"
  created: '2009-02-19 17:33:50'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I've sent your note/info to Carol. I hope you are able to reconnect!\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-02-19 19:08:11'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "It would be nice if Carol would pop in Typophile every once and while. Her
    lauded Chaparral is still such a hot topic.\r\n\r\n:-) Mike"
  created: '2009-02-20 03:57:13'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Carol is even more reclusive and private than Robert Slimbach (which is saying
    something), and has moved on to other crafts, so I think the odds of that are,
    mmm... about zero. A shame, but there you have it.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-02-20 19:37:03'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Thanks Thomas for the info.\r\n\r\nMike :-)"
  created: '2009-02-20 20:31:49'
- author:
    name: marybethmudgettodnnell
    picture: 116901
  body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nI have been hoping to reach Carol, a Classmate from High School.\r\nI
    am registered here and have a post with some contact info, \r\nbut I am unable
    to get to it. If anyone knows where Carol Twombley is,\r\nand is in touch with
    her, her old friend Mary Beth ( Fung)\r\nis just wanting to say hi.  emailmb@mac.com
    \ \r\nThank you,\r\nMary Beth"
  created: '2010-03-14 01:18:52'
- author:
    name: marybethmudgettodnnell
    picture: 116901
  body: "My interest is different in that I just want o say hi to an old classmate.\r\n\r\nThanks!"
  created: '2010-03-14 01:19:58'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: Hi Mary Beth. I'll forward your message to Carol.
  created: '2010-03-14 01:34:57'
- author:
    name: toad42
    picture: 112442
  body: "Hannah Arendt (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hannah_Arendt), despite her disavowal
    of the term, was nevertheless one of the greatest twentieth-century philosophers.
    Thanks to her work in Eichmann in Jerusalem: A Report on the Banality of Evil,
    she was a household name for a while, but even better is her work in Between Past
    and Future: Six Exercises in Political Thought and in The Human Condition. A few
    samples:\r\n\r\n\"But it could be that we, who are earthbound creatures and have
    begun to act as though we were dwellers of the universe, will forever be unable
    to understand, that is, to think and speak about the things which nevertheless
    we are able to do.\"\r\n\r\n\"Modern politics is at war with truth.\"\r\n\r\n\u201CThe
    aim of totalitarian education has never been to instill conviction but to destroy
    the capacity to form any.\u201D\r\n\r\n\u201CIt is as though mankind had divided
    itself between those who believe in human omnipotence (who think that everything
    is possible if one knows how to organize masses for it) and those for whom powerlessness
    has become the major experience of their lives.\u201D\r\n\r\n. . . just to do
    my part in aiding and abetting the thread that would not die . . ."
  created: '2010-08-22 02:23:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Awesome stuff. Never heard of her (my point).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-22 03:56:55'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I think it is safe to say that, "Carol can't help."
  created: '2010-08-22 20:37:17'
- author:
    name: toad42
    picture: 112442
  body: Point taken.
  created: '2010-08-23 06:15:38'
date: '2007-03-30 05:30:20'
node_type: forum
title: Carol Twombly.. Please help me!

---
