---
author:
  name: Miguel Sousa
  picture: 110242
body: "Those of you who have tried the <a href=\"http://labs.adobe.com/technologies/photoshopcs3/\">Adobe
  Photoshop CS3 Beta</a> have probably noticed that, unlike InDesign and Illustrator,
  Photoshop does not have a Glyph palette. And it will probably be of no surprise
  if I say that you won't find such feature in the released version as well.\r\n\r\nAs
  the Photoshop team is planning the future version (the one after CS3), [[Thomas
  Phinney]] and I are trying to convince <a href=\"http://blogs.adobe.com/jnack/\">John
  Nack</a> (Senior Product Manager, Adobe Photoshop), how important a Glyph palette
  is to Photoshop users. And this is where you all come in: we need your examples
  and arguments to show John that you need such feature in Photoshop.\r\n\r\nJohn
  says that his inbox is already bloated with feature requests, so I believe that
  what we should do is post our reasons in this thread. Helpful things are testimonies
  like:\r\n\r\n-- If Photoshop had a Glyph palette, I wouldn't have to open Illustrator
  just to insert that alternate Z from Zapfino that I need for the visual I'm doing.
  I haven't updated my old (2 years) computer, so having one more app opened really
  slows down the whole system;\r\n\r\n-- With a Glyph palette I can easily browse
  the glyph set of the font(s) I'm using, and insert other glyphs that are not accessible
  via the OpenType submenu, neither via the operating system's Character Palette (Mac)/Character
  Map (Windows);\r\n\r\n-- Being able to see the complete glyph set of a feature-rich
  typeface like Bickham Script or Poetica right there in Photoshop, helps me to be
  more creative and saves me time;\r\n\r\n-- Without a Glyph palette in Photoshop,
  I don't have the ability to pre-visualize how a particular glyph will change into
  when I apply OpenType features, so I have to resort to Illustrator, like in this
  video, http://av.adobe.com/russellbrown/OpenTypeSM.mov  The problem is I don't work
  seamlessly in Illustrator as I do in Photoshop, so I avoid it as much as possible.
  I feel that my work would benefit from the retouches in Illustrator, but with the
  projects' tight deadlines I can't really afford that time.\r\n\r\nArguments like,
  \"Having a Glyph palette in Photoshop would make all the apps in the suite more
  consistent\" are also valid, however they don't really justify the need for implementing
  such feature.\r\n\r\nRemember, your input is really invaluable, so please try to
  give as much as you can. Thanks!"
comments:
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Since Photoshop isn't limited to photographic normalizations, having the type
    drawer in a separate room would consequentially increase aches in workers' legs
    & feet.
  created: '2007-03-30 11:34:00'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: Many people today use PhotoShop in Web and print design as the only layout
    tool - with computers handling large file sizes - why not. That said a glyph palette
    makes perfect sense. I have wondered why they have not done it before this - if
    nothing else how do you find the dingbat you want - think of it as an extension
    of the already present shape palette?
  created: '2007-03-30 12:20:03'
- author:
    name: Monoecus
  body: "This feature would not only be very helpful but would also be consistent
    with Adobes policy to promote OpenType as \u201Cthe\u201D font format."
  created: '2007-03-30 13:55:03'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "\u2014 If Photoshop had a Glyph palette, I wouldn\u2019t have to open Illustrator
    just to insert alternate (any number of characters) from (any \"pro\" font) that
    I need for the visual I\u2019m doing. Even with a newer computer and OS, this
    is clunky. The inconsistency in CS app features make it less of a suite and more
    of a co-dependant set of quirky tools with odd workarounds."
  created: '2007-03-30 14:10:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>If Photoshop had a Glyph palette, I wouldn\u2019t have to open Illustrator
    just to insert that alternate Z from Zapfino...</cite>\r\n\r\nFor a company that
    once actually made tremendous strides in interface design and usability, Adobe
    is now falling all over itself. Not putting a feature as useful as a glyph palette
    in Photoshop is best described with cruel insults and profanity that I\u2019m
    not going to spew out on Typophile. I really miss the days when Adobe was leading
    the pack in this area, as opposed to just knocking off Apple and paying little
    attention to user wants and needs."
  created: '2007-03-30 14:10:30'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I would like to see the Glyph Palette precisely because of the example already
    given in the starting-post. When I need a certain glyph, like a alternate character,
    I have to switch to illustrator to copy it, then paste it back in to photoshop.
    Some things can be solved with OT-features, but not all.
  created: '2007-03-30 14:10:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It makes absolutely no sense for PhotoShop to be without a glyph palette.
    I don't know the keyboard combinations for every glyph in every language so it
    is imperative that there be a visual way to get the glyph I need without dancing
    between programs. If Adobe is tauting there software as a creative SUITE, then
    why would you cripple one of the components? I want to be able to SEE all the
    alternates and ligatures. I should not have to find them somewhere else. Please
    include the Glyph Palette as well as opentype features in Photoshop.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-03-30 14:17:22'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Photoshop does not have a Glyph palette. \r\n\r\n> As the Photoshop team
    is planning the future version (the one after CS3), Thomas Phinney and I are trying
    to convince John Nack (Senior Product Manager, Adobe Photoshop), how important
    a Glyph palette is to Photoshop users. \r\n\r\nAre you serious? He does not know
    that? I hope he knows what is accountability  -- send him home. "
  created: '2007-03-30 17:56:26'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Give Nack a paddy-wack and throw designers a bone!\r\n\r\nSeriously, inseting
    a swash cap on a Web graphic should be as easy as resizing a pic. Make it so."
  created: '2007-03-30 18:02:54'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">When I need a certain glyph, like a alternate character, I have to switch
    to illustrator to copy it, then paste it back in to photoshop. \r\n\r\nThat's
    not a problem, that's a feature! see point 9...\r\n\r\nhttp://blogs.adobe.com/jnack/2006/06/12_tips_for_photoshop_text.html\r\n\r\nAnd
    this one is just great... \r\n\r\nhttp://blogs.adobe.com/jnack/2007/03/fruity_typograp.html\r\n\r\n\"On
    an unrelated typographic note, if you're having trouble identifying a font, you
    might find this Flickr group useful. [Via] Oh, and see also What The Font.  (Me,
    I just cheat and bug Tom Phinney (\"I'll trade you a Glyphs palette for six correct
    font ID's...\").)\" \r\n\r\nSo all we need do is offer Mr Nack free type ID help
    for life and a typophile membership (I'll chip in $5.75) and we get the palette!
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-30 18:18:09'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Photoshop is a graphics tool, at this stage of web design. I use Photoshop
    more to make web graphics than anything else. Sometimes those are just photographic
    images, but a lot of it is also type-based. Photoshop offers several rasterizing
    methods for type; so it doesn''t make sense to me to not include the other type
    tools there. Since I can''t choose those rasterization options on imported EPS
    files, It''s no help to be able to set any glyph in Illustrator. Sometimes I choose
    a different rasterizing method for different lines of type in the same image.
    I find it an inappropriate limitation, given the typographic support in the other
    programs, to not have all the glyphs in OpenType fonts available. Adobe offers
    some of the most robust OpenType font families, and glyph selection, as part of
    the other CS apps, seems like a baseline tool.  '
  created: '2007-03-30 18:38:33'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I tried offering John a <em>dozen</em> type IDs plus naming my next kid after
    him (hi, this is my daughter, her name is John), but that was no go.\r\n\r\nSeriously
    though, it's not that John doesn't think a glyph palette would be useful in Photoshop.
    But all new features go through the same process: they rank the features and look
    at how much work they'd take to implement and test, and compare that to how many
    people they have in the given time frame.\r\n\r\nNow, I'm not intimately familiar
    with every new feature in Photoshop CS3  - nor, even if I did know all the new
    features, do I know the user base well enough to judge their importance or demand.
    But I actually know the InDesign CS3 feature list pretty well. There are tons
    of things that have been common user requests and are otherwise clearly badly
    needed. Sure, there are a bunch of things I'd like to see that aren't there yet.
    But looking at the new features it's very clear indeed that they are paying attention
    to what users need and ask for. It's just that the number of exciting potential
    new features always exceeds the available resources by a multiple of several times.\r\n\r\nI'm
    quite certain it's the same for Photoshop, and I know how hard John works. So
    comments like <cite>\"I hope he knows what is accountability \u2014 send him home\"</cite>
    are neither called for nor helpful.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-30 19:41:44'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "While I try to avoid doing mass quantities of type in Photoshop I am right
    there with everyone else who wishes there was a glyph palette. When I do find
    myself working with type in Photoshop it is usually for display purposes. With
    most display settings you can usually go a little crazier and that is where the
    glyphs come into play. Up to now I'm amongst those people who do the type in Illustrator
    and copy/paste it into Photoshop. I'm used to it, but it would be lovely (and
    time saving) if I didn't have to.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-03-30 20:00:29'
- author:
    name: polypica
  body: "A glyph palette in PS is especially helpful because of the growing use of
    OT fonts with many alternates for each letter.\r\nI vote \"yes, please\", if I
    may.\r\n\r\nJohn"
  created: '2007-03-30 20:18:47'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'Here''s the thing: In the days of plain old Type 1 or TrueType fonts, there
    was no problem accessing any glyph in a font. It was the same for any program.
    Now that we have OpenType fonts with 700-1000 glyphs in them this is no longer
    true. The Glyph palette is one way to address this. Without something like the
    Glyph palette, we have actually lost functionality when it comes to fonts in most
    programs. '
  created: '2007-03-30 20:19:19'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Can I just point out the irony of Adobe''s apps limiting access to Adobe''s
    own renowned typefaces? Bickham Pro, Caflisch Script Pro, Poetica: aren''t these
    reason enough to make the glyph palette standard across apps? '
  created: '2007-03-30 23:01:53'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Me - I want a glyph palette in Photoshop. That would be great.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-03-30 23:06:26'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "I'll sign the petition!  I get so tired of switching between apps.  \r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2007-03-31 01:10:33'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "I'm wondering if this is an early aprils fool thread. \r\n\r\nIsn't the type
    \"feature\" thing a library programm set and will be develped independently by
    a differend group of adobe engineers to ensure a quality type access standard
    through the whole set of adobe products?\r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\"
    target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2007-03-31 11:20:38'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Have you asked this question on the Adobe Photoshop board Miguel? Because
    the resounding yes would go on for days\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-03-31 13:21:24'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "That really is a better place for this sort of question. I mean, of course
    *Typophile* readers are all going to say yes, they want it. But that's hardly
    a representative cross-section of Photoshop users. \r\n\r\nNo offense to Typophile
    folks - I'm just saying that you're special.  :)\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-03-31 15:28:57'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Have you asked this question on the Adobe Photoshop board Miguel? Because
    the resounding yes would go on for days\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nI didn't because I really
    hate the lack of usability of the Adobe User to User Forums. Nonetheless I asked
    the question in 3 Photoshop forums (<a href=\"http://www.photoshopcafe.com/cafe/viewthread.php?tid=40830\">The
    CAFE</a>, <a href=\"http://www.photoshoptechniques.com/forum/showthread.php?p=190898\">Photoshop
    Techniques</a>, <a href=\"http://www.retouchpro.com/forums/software/16910-who-wants-needs-glyph-palette-photoshop.html\">RetouchPRO</a>)
    and you guys here have been the most responsive.\r\n\r\nAlright, I'll go post
    on the Photoshop User to User Forums... both of them :^/ (Mac and Win).\r\n\r\n@
    Andreas: This is no joke."
  created: '2007-03-31 19:09:20'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Miguel - good luck over there. It can be pretty ridiculous at times\u2026
    :)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-03-31 20:01:36'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "There is a text tool in photoshop. So there has to be a qlyph palette. It's
    a practical need. If i have to copy and paste glyphs fromout other softwares,
    it takes me time. It's not consistent comparing PS in this case to other softwares
    of the Creative Suite.\r\nAnd Adobe, don't forget following versions of Flash,
    there is text and type too. \r\n"
  created: '2007-03-31 21:06:58'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "The glyph pallet is useful when working on non-roman scripts. Before open
    type logic is put in place or keyboard mapping set up (or created), you can still
    replicate complex substitutions. It is nice to be able to test by manually setting
    text.\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2007-04-03 17:58:26'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> good luck over there. It can be pretty ridiculous at times\u2026 :)\r\n\r\nAnd
    over here isn't? :)\r\n\r\nI am astonished to find there is no glyph palette in
    PS CS3. I skipped version 2, and somehow assumed that it would be in that version.
    Now I'm not sure if maybe I shouldn't wait for CS4."
  created: '2007-04-03 19:02:54'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: I remember spending like 2 hours one time looking for a glyph pallet in photoshop...
    not having one is ridiculous.
  created: '2007-04-03 21:19:20'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "Wow. I don't have anything really constructive to add other than to say I
    recently became confused because I assumed it was there. My workaround was to
    cut-and-paste from InDesign. \r\n\r\nAs others have said, when two applications
    for the same vendor both have similar functionality, there is a hope for UI consistency.
    I've always predicted that Adobe products would eventually merge into a single
    uber-application, where any graphics app would simply access the Adobe Type Palette,
    much like OS X's font pane. "
  created: '2007-04-03 21:28:45'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "From John Nack's <a href=\"http://blogs.adobe.com/jnack/2006/06/12_tips_for_photoshop_text.html\">Blog</a>:\r\n<cite>But
    because Illustrator now shares a type engine with Photoshop</cite>\r\n\r\nIf the
    type engine is \"the same,\" why is the access and the interface different between
    the two? Doesn't make sense. \r\n\r\nSomeone above mentioned access to dingbats.
    I wanted to create a favicon using a fleuron, but I had a heck of a time finding
    one in Photoshop. I was using a machine without Illustrator, and so I had to use
    OS X's built in character pallet, which constantly crashed.\r\n\r\nGive me a glyph
    pallete! (By the way, FontExplorer X works as a great glyph pallete for everything
    BUT Adobe products. Just go to information, go to characters, select the glyph,
    and hit Copy. Works great!)"
  created: '2007-04-03 23:26:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">If the type engine is \u201Cthe same,\u201D why is the access and the interface
    different between the two? Doesn\u2019t make sense. \r\n\r\nNuclear bombs and
    nuclear power plants also use the same 'engine' but the interfaces are different
    - different tools might reasonably need different interfaces? "
  created: '2007-04-04 02:48:30'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: "I'm a special guy too, as many here and need at least a glyph palette in
    Photoshop to make my life easier when I'm doing type samples for my website foundry.
    :p\r\n\r\nPut in another way, thanks Adobe, I will save money and not upgrade
    Photoshop CS3 until the glyph palette appear and the same unique palettes through
    all Adobe applications. :)\r\n\r\nPS. I just discovered that Illustrator CS2 have
    the SC OpenType feature just last week, just because its not with all others OT
    features on the dedicated palette. Its via a local/submenu menu on the Character
    palette rather than the OT palette. pffu. We learn everyday.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-04 16:28:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"different tools might reasonably need different interfaces?\"\r\n\r\nOnly
    if the different interfaces make the product easier to use, not harder.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-04 16:36:11'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "FYI, I got the ball rolling on the Adobe Forums:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.adobeforums.com/cgi-bin/webx/Adobe%20Photoshop/Photoshop%20Windows/41514\">Photoshop
    Windows</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.adobeforums.com/cgi-bin/webx/Adobe%20Photoshop/Photoshop%20Macintosh/21983\">Photoshop
    Macintosh</a>"
  created: '2007-04-06 20:57:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bravo Miguel!\r\n\r\nI added my 2 cents there as well.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-06 21:43:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Cristiano!\r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2007-04-06 21:45:41'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Past threads and posts on the topic:\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/16123\">No
    Glyph Palette in Photoshop CS</a> -- 8 November, 2005\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/16573#comment-98479\">OpenType
    question</a> -- 5 December, 2005\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/20644\">OpenType
    in Photoshop</a> -- 13 June, 2006\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-07 01:59:05'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Adobe has released yet another major version of Photoshop <a href="http://blogs.adobe.com/jnack/2008/09/cs4_sweating_the_details.html">without
    a glyph palette</a> (see my comment at 9PM on Sept 23). Either they aren't hearing
    our cries, or our cries aren't loud enough.
  created: '2008-09-24 16:10:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Adobe should bring Warnock back to run the place. He actually cared about
    type.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-24 16:30:11'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'Maybe instead of asking for a Photoshop glyph palette we should just try
    asking for text anti-aliasing controls in Illustrator. '
  created: '2008-09-24 16:40:16'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Or both.
  created: '2008-09-24 16:48:48'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Adobe is torture - I am so NOT looking forward to CS4. Now that there's virtually
    no competition I guess they have figured out that paid upgrades are far preferable
    to maintenance upgrades.\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\nAll ideas, theories and statements
    are subject to change without notice."
  created: '2008-09-24 17:27:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am not purchasing CS4 because it lacks  improved type support.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-24 17:44:32'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "I don't understand why the type interface is so different between Photoshop
    and Illustrator. I'd prefer that you took that glyph palette out of Illustrator*
    for the sake of consistency.\r\n\r\nIs there any better evidence that the Illustrator
    team and the Photoshop team don't have enough meetings than the OpenType features
    UI?\r\n\r\n* not really"
  created: '2008-09-24 18:03:45'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "That's it! I am going back to Deluxe Paint. :D\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-09-24 18:12:01'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "It could always be that they do have those meetings, and that they usually
    end with someone senior telling them to leave the features out so that people
    who shouldn\u2019t need the entire suite end up buying it anyway."
  created: '2008-09-24 18:12:51'
- author:
    name: zevbiz
    picture: 115672
  body: Definitely wish Photoshop had a glyph pallete.  I =find myself going into
    illustrator at times just to copy a hard to find character.
  created: '2008-09-24 20:49:40'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I hope that everyone who is concerned about being listened to also uses the
    form to actually register their feature request:\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/cfusion/mmform/index.cfm?name=wishform\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-09-25 03:48:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thomas, I used the form yet again. Here is hoping someone there in formland
    listens.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-09-25 13:49:55'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "I want those icons back !\r\nhttp://blog.cocoia.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/colorpsicons.png\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-25 14:00:50'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I submitted another request. But I also requested a glyph palette for the
    last two versions. I\u2019m tempted to request that all of Illustrator run as
    a Photoshop plugin. This would be a great way to improve Photoshop\u2019s weak
    vector tools, get a glyph palette, and it would satisfy the Photoshop team\u2019s
    requirement that Photoshop consume inordinate amounts of RAM."
  created: '2008-09-25 16:08:21'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: 'I want a glyph palette, but mostly I want photoshop to run as fast as possible. '
  created: '2008-09-25 18:00:48'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: maybe some day a 3rd party app developer could build a plugin called Glyph
    palette for CS apps and then in next version Adobe will adopt it like filterit,
    etc.... or maybe a plugin called SS01-20 for AI..... lol
  created: '2008-09-25 18:45:40'
- author:
    name: RahimSnow
    picture: 114570
  body: "I can't believe we're on Photoshop CS4.  Still no glyph palette.  Yes, I
    submitted a feature request.  Some of you submitted one back in 2005.  It's April
    2009.  Still no glyph palette. How much did we pay for this thing?\r\n\r\nThe
    person in charge of prioritizing features at Adobe needs to read 37signals' software
    manifesto, [[http://gettingreal.37signals.com/toc.php|Getting Real]].\r\n\r\nRahim"
  created: '2009-04-15 22:23:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Let's hope none of you whingers are Quark-bashers.
  created: '2009-04-15 22:42:28'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I can\u2019t believe we\u2019re on Photoshop CS4. Still no glyph palette.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    on the list of reasons I have not and will not buy the CS4 suite. Remember that
    awful image extraction plugin that Adobe dumped when it went to CS4? The one that
    just duplicated existing masking functionality, but was buggy and had performance
    problems and never worked right? If the Photoshop team had time to waste on crap
    code like that, they had time for a glyph palette. "
  created: '2009-04-15 22:50:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Rahim,\r\nYes, I put my request in a while back as well. Not that Adobe gives
    a tinkers damn any more.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-15 23:49:34'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: Spam???
  created: '2010-03-15 15:45:34'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: Don, thanks for the heads-up, taken care of.
  created: '2010-03-15 16:35:47'
date: '2007-03-30 10:05:59'
title: Who wants/needs a Glyph Palette in Photoshop?

---
