---
author:
  name: billtroop
  picture: 109800
body: "I have lately been using Fontlab 5 on the PC for some time, and recently switched
  back to the latest publicly released Mac build. I have been very happy with it,
  although I save multiple versions every day or so, just in case. But in spite of
  the truly wonderful things about this program, there are some things about the metrics
  window that have irritated me so much that I must speak out in ill temper. Apologies
  if these issues have already been raised.\r\n\r\nWhy isn't the tab useful in the
  metrics window? Look how Fog does it. The tab is a useful key. It is there to be
  used. So USE IT!\r\n\r\nWhy do kerning and metrics have to be two completely different
  operations, with enormous amounts of time lost whilst switching between them? For
  example, you are in the metrics mode. You have adjusted sidebearings. Now you notice
  a kern that is required. You now have to switch to kern mode. Now focus is lost
  on the character you were working on. So you have to select it again. DUH. So you
  select it, adjust the kerning and now . . . return to metrics. But you have lost
  focus. You have to select the character again.\r\n\r\nLook how Fog does it.\r\n\r\nSidebearing
  and kerning adjustments all take place fluidly at the same time, with simple, easily
  remembered keystrokes. Why is there this artificial, time-consuming dichotomy between
  the two operations in Flab?\r\n\r\nWhy don't cursor keys work in the intuitive,
  expected manner they do in fog? Why do they either do something unexpected, or nothing
  at all? \r\n\r\nCursor keys are there to be used!!!!!!\r\n\r\nCURSOR KEYS ARE THERE
  TO BE USED!!!!!!\r\n\r\nLOOK AT YOUR OWN PROGRAM, now you own it! \r\n\r\nFinal
  example:\r\n\r\nLet us suppose you are in metrics mode, and you are directly editing
  the metrics values in the value boxes. Up/down cursor will let you move up and down
  between width, left sidebearing and right sidebearing. But what happens to cursor
  right/left when you want to move to the next character? NADA! What happens when
  you want to move one element up to the character name box, as you can in Fog, and
  then move focus to the next slot, or gracefully move on to the next character? NADA!!!!\r\n\r\nWhat
  possible reason can there be for such behaviour in a version 5 program? \r\n\r\nFinally
  (really), suppose you now want to get into the tempting little kerning box. You
  can't. \r\n\r\nYou now have to switch to kerning mode, at which point . . . you
  lose focus and have to select the character again. OK. You're in kerning mode now.
  And you _can_ move up to the width/sidebearing cells with cursor up/down. But you
  still can't move up to the character name box and change the character you have
  selected, either by typing it or by using the keystroke for previous/next character.
  Also, the cursor keys now only control kerning. You can no longer change width values
  via the cursor keys. \r\n\r\nWhy all this confusing kerfuffle? \r\n\r\nWhat is the
  intellectual justification for it? Is there some great philosophy of interface design
  here that I am missing? \r\n\r\nIs it too much to ask to get these SIMPLE things
  RIGHT? I am totally exasperated at the total pointlessness of it all. This is not
  good enough! Yet I can't return to Fog at this point . . . . at least not until
  the metrics window gets antialiasing. Yet . . . I believe I could do this kind of
  fitting much more quickly in Fog . . . .\r\n\r\nand what became of the fitting enhancements
  I and several others have been asking for, for . . . a decade? There's a lot of
  programming hours in a decade . . . . . . . . . . "
comments:
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "To amplify (because I can't figure out how to edit the comment), you are
    in kerning mode. Cursor L/R changes values; Shift adds ten. So far so good.\r\n\r\nBut
    command and option also do EXACTLY THE SAME THING.\r\n\r\nWhat is to prevent cmd/opt
    arrow from changing L/R sidebearings at this point? \r\n\r\nThe intellectual work
    behind figuring out what to do with these obvious keystrokes was done by Altsys
    20 years ago. What is the problem with taking advantage of something absolutely
    expected in contemporary software? Or, one might ask, why is the primary key change
    in Fog 4/OS X that cmd-Y is no longer the undo key; instead it's shift-cmd-Z.
    WHAT ? ? ? ? ? \r\n\r\nWho thought these things up? Why? How can they possibly
    be justified. I realize I am setting myself here for a 'well, Bill, if you would
    just read the manual, where we explain such and such, or well Bill, if you would
    just _think_ for a minute, you would realize why we did such and such and why
    it's such a good thing.' \r\n\r\nOK. I'm ready for it."
  created: '2007-03-31 12:52:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Monopoly?
  created: '2007-03-31 13:00:31'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> \u201CMonopoly?\u201D\r\n\r\nAs in, FontLab Studio, DTL FontMaster and
    FontForge all being fully-capable font creation environments (with FontForge being
    opensource and free), and numerous other tools such as High-Logic FontCreator
    available in the low-end market? \r\n\r\nUsers interested in getting the tools
    exactly the way they want them are welcome to write the specifications of how
    exactly they would like the tools to work. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-02 23:55:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Users interested in getting the tools exactly the way they want them are
    welcome to write the specifications of how exactly they would like the tools to
    work.\"\r\n\r\nRight, is exactly the way we would like the tools to work. Without
    competition, we need not write you, we need to write code. You don't respond to
    even the simplest, or most basic requirements of the type designer with brain
    onboard. You have a monopoly on FL functionality.\r\n\r\nThis does not mean, by
    the way, that I don't like this tool. It means, I would never recommend it to
    anyone else, and I would not ever dare to teach using it, because I don't have
    time to explain its idiosyncractic and illogical behaviors.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-03 12:59:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "David, very few people have been drawing type constantly for 30 years, as
    you have. So that what is obvious to you may be far from obvious to others.\r\n\r\nI
    am new to this, but my impression is that FontLab has been quirky, but that the
    developers at FontLab are responsive to the suggestions of their customers, and
    there has been a steady improvement in usability. \r\n\r\nPerhaps listing your
    suggestions here will help. I'm sure others will chime in and confirm your suggestions,
    or make additional or different ones. "
  created: '2007-04-03 15:18:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "You're Bill, I'm wrong to criticize FL. But, I'd rather be wrong than lazy.\r\n\r\nListing
    my suggestions is how I started this issue, here, a while ago. Many of those issues
    got better with 5, some did not, and of course, there were are more issues now
    that when I began. Since then, I've fed an-issue-a-month directly to Adam, as
    he asked me to do it that way, (better you know), so now I only raise issues here
    when they've lingered quitely in Adam's in box for more than a month, or if someone
    here reraises an issue that's still festers.\r\n\r\n\"As in, FontLab Studio, DTL
    FontMaster and FontForge all being fully-capable font creation environments (with
    FontForge being opensource and free), and numerous other tools such as High-Logic
    FontCreator available in the low-end market?\"\r\n\r\nThis, misunderstanding of
    how monopolies are determined, is an excellent response for those who not wonder
    what their tools can do for them, but what else they can do for their tools. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-04-04 13:58:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: (sorry bout my typing, but my denrist, knowing of the fondness I have for
    his assistant, insisted on putting novacaine in my moyth an hqnds this mormng,
  created: '2007-04-04 14:03:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "We know the drill David :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-04 16:18:50'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> You don\u2019t respond to even the simplest, or most \r\n> basic requirements
    of the type designer with brain \r\n> onboard. \r\n\r\nWe *are* listening to you,
    David, as well as to other users of FontLab Studio. But please understand that
    we don\u2019t randomly fix and change small things as they occur. Instead, we
    collect feature requests and bug reports, prioritize them (we have, after all,
    a rather small team of developers) and feed them into the development schedule.
    Just four days ago, we released TypeTool 3, a fully-new version of another product
    (that is closely related to FontLab Studio but separate). This all takes time
    and resources. We will revisit your ideas and requests during the next round of
    FontLab Studio development, I promise. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-04-04 21:02:42'
- author:
    name: andyclymer
    picture: 110580
  body: "Adam,\r\n\r\nWhat is the preferred method to submit interface comments/peeves
    to the development team? Will it make it to the right place by filling out the
    \"problem report\" form?\r\n\r\nAndy"
  created: '2007-04-04 22:15:15'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Yes. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-04-05 00:19:09'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: 'This is what I really would like to do: collect many FLS suggestions that
    we got and put them into new update. Unfortunately what I have to do at current
    moment is to work on some other projects that we need to release. But FLS will
    always be a top priority for us.'
  created: '2007-04-05 18:36:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I would be just thrilled if FL5 Mac version would not crash so often. It
    is the only program I have out of hundreds that I can guarantee will crash every
    time I use it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-05 18:39:42'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">I would be just thrilled if FL5 Mac version would not crash so often. It
    is the only program I have out of hundreds that I can guarantee will crash every
    time I use it.\r\n\r\nI have had my problems with 5.02 in the past, but whether
    it is 10.4.8 on a pretty fresh install, or improvements in the latest build, I
    and several others I know can now run 5.02 for days or even weeks without crashing,
    and that includes some pretty complex files and operations. In fact, in some respects,
    I have actually found the Mac build more stable than the some Windows builds.
    \r\n\r\nI don't believe in private feature request lists. My experience is that
    companies only respond when things get public. Here's another gripe. Can you control
    the idiotic automatic strings that appear when you click on an entry in the metrics
    table?\r\n\r\nFor example, HOH6non is not useful when you want to look at H6H
    or O6O or n6n etc. It is incredible to me, so many decades after H_H n_n fittings
    lists have been in constant use, that Fontlab can't get this basic principle across.
    One sees all these wonderful things happening, yet one constantly gets the feeling
    that neither Yuri nor Adam has ever sat down for a day or two with a really competent
    font designer to observe what actually needs to be done. Too many geeks, too few
    craftsmen. "
  created: '2007-04-06 10:28:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Can you control the idiotic automatic strings ...?\r\n\r\nYou can edit test
    strings and insert your own by clicking the button with three dots to the right
    of the window with the strings. \r\n\r\nThis way to edit test strings is noted
    on p. 54 of the Windows manual. Bill Troop's question here I think  indicates
    the weakness of the manual, which for me personally is the single biggest problem
    with FontLab at the moment. If you look under 'metrics' as I have just done, you
    will find that the metrics sections are scattered over three or four different
    places of the (huge) manual. So to find the answer you have to hunt all over the
    place. And you have to know what to ask in the first place.\r\n\r\nIf all the
    information on metrics were explained in a task-oriented way, all in the same
    place, it would help greatly to make the FontLab features accessible to the user.
    \r\n\r\nThis would mean repeating information in different places, but there is
    no problem with that. Currently the manual is organized as programmer's notes,
    rather than as a guide for users. The makes FontLab's treasures a lot less accessible.
    \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-04-06 13:34:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "As I said in another thread, Karsten Luecke should write book on FontLab.
    He seems to be able to explain it in a way that is more digestable by a user.
    The current manual seems to be written from the programmer's perspective, explaining
    things in a hardware store fashion rather than as a working process.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-06 13:49:14'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Hi William, that's not what I mean. One of the good things about the metrics
    window is that you can open the metrics table and it will appear in a window at
    the right. You can now cursor down through each character, and as you do so the
    new character will appear within a control string. The only problem is that the
    control string cannot be altered (as far as I know) and is not useful. It is as
    follows, taking / as the character we have selected:\r\n\r\nHOH/non\r\nHHH/nnn\r\nOOO/ooo\r\nXHX/xox\r\n\r\nWhat
    we want is something more like HH/H OO/O, nn/n oo/o. The FIRST thing you want
    to see is the new character between the standard control characters of H,O,n,o.
    This is bedrock fitting practice. \r\n\r\nSo the questions are:\r\n\r\nwhy did
    Fontlab do the string in such a perverse and useless way? \r\ncan it be customized?
    \r\n\r\nIf this were to work in the way I suggest, it would actually be a useful
    quick tool for font designers to use, always being mindful of the distortions
    that screen resolution, even with efficient anti-aliasing, will create. Fontlab
    had a great convenience idea here, but implemented it in such a way that is next
    to useless.\r\n\r\nI am not referring to the fitting strings you can select from
    the drop down. They are not useful. What you want is something to scroll through.
    The program is almost there -- so near -- yet so far. Why, why, why? \r\n\r\n>This,
    misunderstanding of how monopolies are determined, is an excellent response for
    those who not wonder what their tools can do for them, but what else they can
    do for their tools.\r\n\r\nDavid has put his finger on what distinguishes those
    who need to produce good fonts and those who enjoy playing around with software.\r\n\r\nAs
    for private suggestions . . . how many years is it since I gave Fontlab a more
    or less simple way productively to semi-automate rational metrics fitting? Two?
    Three? Four? Five? Six? Seven? How many followup discussions were there? Could
    anyone even find the emails at this point? "
  created: '2007-04-06 16:53:41'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Hi William, that's not what I mean. One of the good things about the metrics
    window is that you can open the metrics table and it will appear in a window at
    the right. You can now cursor down through each character, and as you do so the
    new character will appear within a control string. The only problem is that the
    control string cannot be altered (as far as I know) and is not useful. It is as
    follows, taking / as the character we have selected:\r\n\r\nHOH/non\r\nHHH/nnn\r\nOOO/ooo\r\nXHX/xox\r\n\r\nWhat
    we want is something more like HH/H OO/O, nn/n oo/o. The FIRST thing you want
    to see is the new character between the standard control characters of H,O,n,o.
    This is bedrock fitting practice. \r\n\r\nSo the questions are:\r\n\r\nwhy did
    Fontlab do the string in such a perverse and useless way? \r\ncan it be customized?
    \r\n\r\nIf this were to work in the way I suggest, it would actually be a useful
    quick tool for font designers to use, always being mindful of the distortions
    that screen resolution, even with efficient anti-aliasing, will create. Fontlab
    had a great convenience idea here, but implemented it in such a way that is next
    to useless.\r\n\r\nI am not referring to the fitting strings you can select from
    the drop down. They are not useful. What you want is something to scroll through.
    The program is almost there -- so near -- yet so far. Why, why, why? \r\n\r\n>This,
    misunderstanding of how monopolies are determined, is an excellent response for
    those who not wonder what their tools can do for them, but what else they can
    do for their tools.\r\n\r\nDavid has put his finger on what distinguishes those
    who need to produce good fonts and those who enjoy playing around with software.\r\n\r\nAs
    for private suggestions . . . how many years is it since I gave Fontlab a more
    or less simple way productively to semi-automate rational metrics fitting? Two?
    Three? Four? Five? Six? Seven? How many followup discussions were there? Could
    anyone even find the emails at this point? "
  created: '2007-04-06 16:53:45'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nTo change those strings you can edit the text file at:\r\n\r\nLibrary>Application
    Support>FontLab>Studio5>Data>Metrics.txt\r\n\r\nJames\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-06 17:04:12'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nTo change those strings you can edit the text file at:\r\n\r\nLibrary>Application
    Support>FontLab>Studio5>Data>Metrics.txt\r\n\r\nJames\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-06 17:14:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Bill, I didn't get right the first shot what you are talking about, but I
    think I've got it now. \r\n\r\nWhen I open the kerning table with the 'metrics'
    button pushed on the bar and click on E, I get the string HOHEHOH followed by
    HHHEHHH followed by OOOEOOO and another string. And this is what you are asking
    for, no? \r\n\r\nWhen I click on a lower case letter, it has caps to the left
    and lower case to the right, as you say. That is a not good, I agree. \r\n\r\nWhen
    I open the kerning table with the 'kerning' button pushed and click on say Es,
    I get the strings you are complaining about, but those seem rational for kerning
    no?\r\n\r\nI didn't know about all this before, so I'm glad you bring it up.\r\n\r\nSo
    far as I can see none of this is even documented, much less explained in the FontLab
    manual. \r\n\r\nI really think that lack of documentation is a screw-up, like
    the lack of documentation of many of the keyboard short cuts. \r\n\r\nedit: I
    think what may be going on here is that there is one metrics.txt file for 'metrics',
    as James points out. If you have a kern to lower case, such as 'To', then I suppose
    it is best to have caps to the left of T and lower case to the right: HHHTonnn
    or some such. But if you want to space both sides of the o, then it would be better
    to have nnonn, etc. But with only one metrics table, probably intended for kerning,
    then the way FontLab does it is the only way to go. But then you can't use the
    table in the same way when the 'metrics' button is pushed. You would need to change
    the text in the metrics.txt file when you switch between spacing and kerning,
    if I am understanding this rightly. "
  created: '2007-04-06 17:43:46'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'James, thanks for this info, William, it actually is in the manual if you
    do a search for ''metrics.txt'' -- so there really is some documentation. However,
    I have been editing this file and have not seen anything change! I changed the
    ownership of the directory from System to my name, otherwise I wasn''t allowed
    to edit. Could that screw things up? But where is Fontlab getting the tables from
    then? Oh, this is driving me nuts, what a waste of time! PS Yes William I think
    you are right about the kerning. Right now I''m just trying to deal with straight
    metrics. The better your metrics, the less kerning you need. '
  created: '2007-04-06 21:30:47'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'OK, I changed the ownership back to system; no change. Why isn''t Fontlab
    accepting the edits? Yes, I have rebooted in case there was some kind of nutty
    caching going on . . . . '
  created: '2007-04-06 21:42:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ok, my mistake on the documentation. Sorry FontLab. However, you are going
    to find it difficult to locate this in the index. In future, I guess I will have
    to search the PDF rather than using my hard copy. A better index would be welcome.
    Also there is no mention that it works--sort of--in metrics mode. You could say
    that using it in metrics mode is a 'hack', as they don't mention it. But so long
    as they have the functionality shouldn't they explain it? \r\n\r\nOn changing
    the metrics.txt, might you be having a cache problem? "
  created: '2007-04-06 21:49:33'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Bill, I'm sorry I wasn't specific enough.\r\n\r\nThere are two libraries
    in OSX, I believe you are following the path the the metrics.txt via the Library
    at the HD level. What you need to do is use the Library that is located under
    User. Username/Library/Application Support/Fontlab/Studio 5/Data/metrics.txt\r\n\r\nI
    just made some edits there and they show up fine, without having to manipulate
    permissions.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2007-04-06 22:56:34'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: OK James, good info. However, I had only been able to find one metrics.txt
    file on my system; the data folder was blank in /username/lib/etc. OK. So I copied
    the modified metrics file over. Still no response. What gives? Grrrrrr!
  created: '2007-04-06 23:03:00'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'OK, OK, finally found yet another data folder . . . . yes, it works. '
  created: '2007-04-06 23:08:32'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "OK, I now have the metrics window working. I have two fonts whose widths
    I am comparing. I am using the metrics table to scroll down. I look at font 1.
    I scroll down from A to B. \r\n\r\nI click on Font Window 2. I scroll down from
    A to B.\r\n\r\nNow I click back onto Font 1. I want to scroll down to C. But I
    can't do that just by using the down arrow! THE WINDOW HAS LOST FOCUS. Why? Why?
    Why? I now need to go through the additional steps of using the mouse or pen to
    click on metrics table, select B or C, etc. etc. \r\n\r\nJust because for some
    reason this program -- unlike any other I have ever used -- somehow loses focus
    on what was going on right after you click on another window.\r\n\r\nI think this
    kind of thing might be what David is talking about when he talks about designing
    for humans? \r\n\r\nSimilarly, the arcane undo feature. In Fontographer, it is
    assumed that undo applies only to what you are doing in a certain layer -- it
    is layer specific. Do 6 actions in the template window. Now go into the outline
    window and do 5 actions. Now you see something you want to undo in the template
    layer so you go there and undo it. What happens in Flab? You go into the template
    layer and it undoes the 5 actions you just did in the outline window (the ones
    you don't want to undo) because Flab's undo doesn't respect layers. Same thing
    with masters. This is intolerably bad design in my view. What is the rationale
    for it? And by the way, what is the matter with UNDO letting you know what action
    it is undoing -- something most programs have done for a long, long, long time
    ? ? ? ? We're HUMANS . . . . . . . . "
  created: '2007-04-07 01:23:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Fog 3.5 \"knew\" and I'm not going to say how ;) that the \"type designer\"
    \"wants\" the mouse to \"stay\" in the glyph window and not be \"run\" about to
    get \"stuff\", and that the \"designer\" \"wants\" to \"work\" in the metrics
    window \"ENTIRELY\" by keyboard is proven.\r\n\r\nI can only say for sure that
    there is a fully functioning model of exactly what it should look like and work
    like, that it has been available since 89, and that the developers of FL can see,
    use and copy it at their pleasure. \r\n\r\nMaybe if they had to DO THIS JOB, they
    could do theirs too, but in the absence of either doing it, or listening to those
    who do, I'm only designing fonts that \"need no kerning,\" or \"already have it\",
    2 years now. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-04-07 16:01:32'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Fog 3.5 \u201Cknew\u201D ... Maybe if they had to DO THIS JOB ...\r\n\r\nAre
    you listening, Yuri? Yuri, you know I love you beyond telling for all the wonderful
    things you have done, but . . . are you listening? \r\n\r\nAdvice from the very
    highest places doesn't get any better than this. \r\n\r\nThe world's most competent
    typeface designer is saying something important here. \r\n\r\nHow much does it
    cost to fly to Boston for a couple of days to sit down with someone who can help
    you beyond measure? And please let's not hear anything more about email suggestions
    and posts. Sitzfleisch is what is needed here. That 1989 was a long, long, time
    ago proves that. "
  created: '2007-04-07 17:16:59'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Yet more interface insanity:\r\n\r\nI'm in the metrics table. I'm scrolling
    down, trying to fit a face quickly.\r\n\r\nWHAT DO MY CURSOR KEYS DO? ? ? ? \r\n\r\nWell,
    right/left arrow increases/decreases RIGHT SB by 1 unit, adding shift by 10 units.\r\n\r\nSo
    far, so good, apparently.\r\n\r\nBut what if I want to change the left sidebearing?
    What does option, command, control, etc. do? EXACTLY THE SAME THING!\r\n\r\nWill
    tab get me to the next field, shift-tab get me to the previous field? NO.\r\n\r\nThe
    only way to get more control is to use the mouse and click on the OTHER metrics
    table, the one at the bottom. Here, you have option and shift regulating left/ride
    SB; plain cursor moves the character within the field.\r\n\r\nSo nothing works
    as expected or as logic would dictate. Everything is so cumbersome you want to
    cry. Or, as David says, give up kerning altogether. Because it _is_ a monopoly
    situation here. The other options are no longer serviceable. "
  created: '2007-04-07 18:25:30'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "I will try to follow:\r\n\r\n- \"HOHhoh\". It is customizable, but it is
    class-based. Some classes such as \"uppercase\" or \"figures\" are \"virtual\"
    - you don't need to define them, but for more specific things you have to. When
    you have classes, that \"metrics template\" can be adjusted by editing the metrics.txt
    file.\r\n\r\n- Shortcuts in the MW. On Windows it is designed in a way that it
    is not needed to use mouse at all - everything can be done by keyboard. I will
    check if that was not lost during the Mac port.\r\n\r\n- Mixed metrics and kerning
    editing. Well, technically it is very easy to implement. I always though that
    it is right to work on metrics separately from kerning, so in non-kerning environment
    font will look good. OK, I will do Fog-style mixed editing, will see how it works.\r\n\r\n-
    Undo. I only can agree that its implementation in FLS/TT is not good. It was improved,
    but unfortunately it cannot be done as I'd like it to work until next Big Rewrite
    (which is soon). That Rewrite will also introduce completely new UI and new workflow.
    \r\n\r\n- Fog 3.5 was a great tool and we still have to learn a lot from its simplicity.
    Unfortunately font technologies changed so we have to care about such complex
    things as class-kerning, non-Latin fonts etc. Typical font is not Mac Roman anymore
    and it makes impossible to have simple and elegant solutions that will really
    work only for Latin. \r\n\r\nAnyway, it gives us no excuse to lose focus in windows.
    I beleive that is implemented OK in Windows build but what I need to check it
    in on a Mac side.\r\n\r\nGood news - now I got Mac computer at home so I am gaining
    a lot of personal end-user OS X experience :)"
  created: '2007-04-07 18:38:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"now I got Mac computer at home so I am gaining a lot of personal end-user
    OS X experience\"\r\n\r\nYes! Mac users are people too and would like equal trteatment
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-07 18:49:35'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "More news: \r\nWe decided to not rely only on internal testing and beta-testing
    programs but also do extensive professional out-site testing of our key applications.
    \r\n\r\nUpcoming new version of BitFonter passed this testing process (about 2
    months of work, about 300 fixed problems) and TypeTool/FLS is in progress (already
    almost a month, about 100 problems to fix). "
  created: '2007-04-07 19:07:43'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "MW keyboard (as it now works in Windows build). In metrics mode.\r\n\r\n<strong>When
    focus is in main area and some glyph is selected:</strong> \r\n\r\nArrows - move
    glyph left-right without changing width;\r\nCtrl + Arrows - change LSB and width,
    RSB is not changed;\r\nCtrl + Alt + Arrows - change RSB and width, LSB is not
    changed;\r\n\r\nPressed Shift increases \"force\" by the \"shift accelerator\"
    value that you can specify in Tools > Options > Glyph Window (!) > Dimensions.\r\n\r\n<strong>When
    focus is in table:</strong>\r\n\r\nArrows - increase and decrease width by modifying
    RSB;\r\nCtrl + Arrors (new thing, will work in upcoming 5.0.3 update) - increase
    and decrease width by modofying LSB;\r\n\r\nShift - accelerates by the \"shift
    accelerator\" value (defaulting to 10)\r\n\r\nTab key alternates between \"main
    area\" and \"table\".\r\nTo select glyph for editing in the main area use \"PgDn\"
    and \"PgUp\" keys. \"Home\" and \"End\" also work. \"Esc\" drops selection so
    when you press Tab and switch to table, \"HOHOhoho\" templates will work again.\r\n\r\nIt
    is all about Windows build, I will make sure that it works the same way (and better)
    on the Mac."
  created: '2007-04-07 19:19:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Shortcuts in the MW. On Windows it is designed in a way that it is not needed
    to use mouse at all - everything can be done by keyboard.\r\n\r\nYes, in Windows
    you can move the left sidebearing with control + l & r arrow keys, and you can
    control the right side bearing with control + alt + l & r arrow keys. And the
    latter is NOT DOCUMENTED.\r\n\r\nI have suggested in an e-mail to Adam that the
    up and down arrow keys control the width of the sidebearing, adding one unit to
    both sides (up) or subtracting one unit from both sides (down). That way it is
    easy to vary independently the two aspects of spacing a glyph between control
    characters: the centering and the advance width. \r\n\r\nedit: I see I have cross
    posted with Yuri's latest. Let me just emphasize that the lack of documentation
    of the functions hurts usability, and is really annoying, at least to this user. "
  created: '2007-04-07 19:25:33'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "Mixed metrics and kerning editing: \r\n\r\nIf you want to enter numbers,
    it already works perfectly if you use panel (almost direct copy of the similar
    thing in Fog 4). \r\n\r\n[a trick: instead of entering numeric value there you
    can enter = followed by the name of the glyph from which this value must be copied.
    You can also enter things like 200/2 or 50+50(which will result in 100 in both
    cases)]\r\n\r\nOK, that is not keyboard and not mouse - just typing in some numbers
    - we will consider adding mouse and arrow editing for metrics in the kerning mode."
  created: '2007-04-07 19:28:07'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "Adding a unit to both sidebearings seems to be a very nice feature. \r\n\r\nLet
    me think how it could be done without changing current way of working. Maybe there
    could be an option which will alternate \"ctrl\" or \"ctrl+alt\" arrow modes with
    \"balanced\" weight-adjusment. \r\n\r\nOr alternatively it will replace current
    Ctrl + Up/Down (currently shifts glyph up and down, with optional shift acceleration)
    with this new mode."
  created: '2007-04-07 19:32:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">nice feature\r\n\r\nThank you. The idea comes from David Kindersley's book
    on optical spacing. He pointed out that there are two different problems in spacing:
    centering and advance width.\r\n\r\nCurrently the left and right arrows move the
    whole glyph left or right, and the up and down by themselves do nothing, at least
    on my windows machine. So if the up and down arrows would increase or decrease
    the advance width by one unit (or with shift accelerated 10 or a defined number
    of units) that would make for a very natural work flow, I think.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-07 19:42:25'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "Currently up and down keys are used to navigate in multi-line text. What
    I am doing is to provide an option (will come to Tools > Options > Metrics window
    and in similar place on the Mac) that will replace this with balanced width change.
    \r\n\r\nIt will change LSB when width is odd and RSB when it is even. Width will
    change by 1 unit."
  created: '2007-04-07 19:55:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks!\r\n\r\nIt would be nice if you could ask a sample of designers what
    defaults they want, on this and other issues. I suspect that the balanced width
    change would be a preferred default, but of course I don't know.\r\n\r\nedit:
    I just thought of something else. \r\n\r\nI don't know about anyone else, but
    if I am having difficulty spacing something I like to make it clearly too loose
    and then clearly too tight, and then I know the correct value is somewhere in
    between. \r\n\r\nSo if you have shift + up and down arrow keys move both side
    bearings simultaneously by say 2 units, then the user could use this function
    to get a rough indication of correct spacing. Then he or she could release the
    shift key and make the finer final adjustment, as you describe.   "
  created: '2007-04-07 20:22:27'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "I consider it OK to change some defaults in first-number version change (from
    4.x to 5.0 for example) but when we go from 5.0.2 to 5.0.3 that's too much :)\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I just implemeted the feature as an experiment and it seems to work perfectly.
    Thank you!"
  created: '2007-04-07 20:58:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yuri,\r\nThank you for being responsive to us here. Many of us spend much
    of our waking hours with FLS and would be able to get more sleep if it were to
    have an improved interface. :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-07 21:01:29'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "And don't forget the TAB!\r\n\r\nWe're in the metrics panel. We change left
    sidebearing manually. Now we want to tab over to right sidebearing . . . . tab
    tab tab tab tab is an important key key key key \r\n\r\nI had not realized there
    was so much difference between Mac and Win. I could perfectly well be using Win
    version but was enjoying Mac so much I didn't see the point. However, I will switch
    over to Win before adding to my gripe list, recognizing that Win always comes
    first with Fontlab. Truthfully, I have found that the build I am using on Mac
    is substantially more stable than the building I am using on Win, which is not
    what one would expect. "
  created: '2007-04-07 21:36:53'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "and my first grip about the Win build I am using is that it seems exactly
    the same as the Mac build when you're in the metrics table of the metrics window
    . . . . . \r\n\r\n\"- Shortcuts in the MW. On Windows it is designed in a way
    that it is not needed to use mouse at all - everything can be done by keyboard.
    I will check if that was not lost during the Mac port.\"\r\n\r\nNot in my Win
    build it ain't."
  created: '2007-04-08 00:22:36'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Re metrics.txt (and ... how much sense does it make that there are three
    possible places it can go though only one of them actually has any effect ...),
    there are three classes: uppercase, lowercase, and smallcaps. Are there any other
    classes that are recognized by this file, such as numbers, punctuation, other,
    whatever? Where might they be defined and perhaps altered? (and not that it should
    be necessary to do this . . . . )'
  created: '2007-04-08 00:30:40'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "Bill, what is \"tab panel\"? In FLS terminology it is a horizontally-oriented
    table that can be located on top or at the bottom of the main metrics/kerning
    editing table. There is main area, panel, table (vertically-oriented, at the right)
    and a ruler (thin line that shows metrics data for the current line and is not
    editable).\r\n\r\nIf you are talking about the same panel then (in Win version)
    Tab works there, it is used to go to previous and (with Shift) glyph. Vertical
    arrow keys allow to select which value you want to modify in the current glyph. "
  created: '2007-04-08 06:06:32'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Bill, what is \u201Ctab panel\u201D?\r\n\r\nYuri, you must mean metrics
    panel. When I said metrics panel, I should have have said 'metrics table' -- the
    vertically oriented, editable panel which shows the entire font's metrics. Let
    us call the vertical arrangement the metrics table and the horizontal arrangement
    the metrics panel.\r\n\r\nBecause the only way we can automatically generate context
    for succeeding characters is by using the metrics table, this will be the primary
    way we navigate through metrics. \r\n\r\nIf, on the other hand, you had made it
    possible to generate a fitting string and then, by having the first incidence
    of the control character be a kind of master character, and then, each time you
    change that master character (for example by next/previous character) you change
    ALL incidences of the master character in the fitting string, then, we would be
    using the metrics panel, not the metrics table, as our primary metrics editing
    area.\r\n\r\nBut you didn't. Honestly, you will never, never, never understand
    what David, me, or any of the rest of us are talking about until you spend a couple
    of days sitting down with us. Discussion of this kind, by post and email, is a
    complete waste of time. Because more than fifteen or so years after being the
    best programmer of font design programs, you still have absolutely no idea how
    a font designer actually works. It is time to find out. Start with Berlow. In
    the entire world, there is nobody better to start with. The problem here is not
    intelligence, is not intuition. It is fifteen years of bad communication. \r\n\r\nNo
    matter how busy you think you are, drop it and force yourself to spend some time
    with a few key people. And I don't mean just an hour or so gabbing. I mean several
    hours with each, patiently observing how a font actually gets designed. There
    is no substitute for this. It is now abundantly clear -- indeed it has been clear
    for at least the past ten years -- that this is what you need to do. Words just
    don't do it. You've got see it, you've got to experience it. Don't you begin to
    see what a complete waste of time words are? The hundred misunderstandings on
    this thread, so time-consuming to elucidate, illustrate that.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-08 09:42:01'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "Bill, every designer has very different approaches to do the same things
    with the font. I am listening to many designers and I've spent quite some time
    learning how some of them work. In ideal world it will be possible to adjust every
    tool and every UI element of the program to fit any possible type designer. In
    a reality we have to make a tool that will suit as many designers (professional
    and not) as possible. So we have to make compromises. Again, it give us no excuse
    to make errors and we always try to fix them.\r\n\r\nBut you are right, we really
    need to learn more. I will be in Frankfurt on Typotechnica in few weeks, then
    I will certainly come to Brighton. Maybe TypeCon too. If anyone is ready to share
    any FLS or Fog experience with me - I will be glad to run my camera.\r\n\r\nActually,
    it will be even better if anyone interested can just record some routine font-editing
    process (metrics editing or anything else) with good screen-capture software.
    It will let us analyse the workflow and isolate any UI problems that eat time.
    \r\n\r\nHowever, it is also necessary to just learn FLS if you want to use it
    at full power. "
  created: '2007-04-08 12:45:56'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "\"Automated Template\", proposed by Bill: \r\nVery similar thing can be already
    done in FLS using the Preview panel. In preview panel when you enter '@' into
    sample string it is automatically replaced by \"current glyph\" - glyph in GW
    that is active or currently selected glyph in MW. Which means that you may make
    something like \"H@H@O@A@V@T\" and put it into Preview panel. Then when you select
    different glyphs in MW, preview panel will automatically update.\r\n\r\nThis is
    certainly not the same as having this feature built into MW, but it may help."
  created: '2007-04-08 19:23:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">when you enter \u2018@\u2019 into sample string it is automatically replaced
    by \u201Ccurrent glyph\u201D - glyph in GW that is active \r\n\r\nNice. I missed
    this in the manual--or is it just not there? "
  created: '2007-04-08 20:36:53'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: It is not in the manual, just checked that. We will fix that in the next update.
  created: '2007-04-08 21:01:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">not in the manual\r\n\r\nThere are also a series of keyboard short cuts
    not in the manual that I have kept discovering. [ctrl + plus activates zoom, shift
    + control + alt activates measuring tool, ctrl + alt activates right sidebearing
    of selected glyph in metrics window, etc.]\r\n\r\nLife will be better for us users
    of FontLab if this stuff is not only all in the manual, but also is explained
    as part of a *work process* as several have noted in this thread. \r\n\r\nIn other
    words, you take a task, like spacing and explain in the manual three ways to do
    it, step 1-5, and how each function is used at each step. I have a feeling that
    if this effort is made in consultation with you programmers, you will catch almost
    all of the omissions from the manual, as you have for this case. \r\n\r\nAnd of
    course if it is not in the manual effectively it is not in the program, even if
    it actually is. "
  created: '2007-04-08 22:17:08'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">This is certainly not the same as having this feature built into MW, but
    it may help.\r\n\r\nNo, it doesn't help. It's way too cumbersome to have to use
    the preview panel and the metrics window simultaneously open so that the preview
    panel can now do something that the metrics window should be doing. This isn't
    a serioius solution. At least not the way I have been able to figure it out from
    trying it out based on what you wrote.\r\n\r\nFurther questions about the metrics
    table. Why doesn't pressing an alphanumeric key bring you anywhere? It should
    at the least bring you to the next character beginning with that letter, then
    the next, etc. etc.\r\n\r\nAnd why on earth doesn't page up/page down work in
    the metrics table? How on earth are you supposed to navigate through this table
    then? ? ?\r\n\r\nIt is all hopelessly inept and you should all be embarassed to
    present such things in version 5 software. Excuse such harsh words, but if there
    ever was a time to speak plainly, it is now.\r\n\r\nI don't accept your other
    points, which I will take in turn:\r\n\r\n>Bill, every designer has very different
    approaches to do the same things with the font. I am listening to many designers
    and I\u2019ve spent quite some time learning how some of them work. \r\n\r\nEither
    you're not listening hard enough or you're listening to the wrong people. The
    kind of behaviour I have described just within this message should not exist in
    any program, period. And I know perfectly well you're not listening either to
    Berlow or to me (not that I mean to put myself in the exalted position of Berlow).
    \r\n\r\n>In ideal world it will be possible to adjust every tool and every UI
    element of the program to fit any possible type designer. In a reality we have
    to make a tool that will suit as many designers (professional and not) as possible.
    So we have to make compromises. \r\n\r\nYuri, this isn't about compromises. This
    is about good interface design and bad interface design. You have a table. The
    metrics table. You can navigate through it ONLY by pressing cursor up/down as
    far as I can tell. Or the mouse. Why don't al/num characters have input? Why doesn't
    Pgup/PgDn work as expected? That isn't about compromise or preference. That is
    just about decent interface design.\r\n\r\n>Again, it give us no excuse to make
    errors and we always try to fix them.\r\n\r\nIn the category of bug fixes, we
    are all tremendously grateful to you as you know -- except Erik. I am not talking
    about errors. I am talking about design.\r\n\r\n>But you are right, we really
    need to learn more. I will be in Frankfurt on Typotechnica in few weeks, then
    I will certainly come to Brighton. Maybe TypeCon too. If anyone is ready to share
    any FLS or Fog experience with me - I will be glad to run my camera.\r\nActually,
    it will be even better if anyone interested can just record some routine font-editing
    process (metrics editing or anything else) with good screen-capture software.
    It will let us analyse the workflow and isolate any UI problems that eat time.\r\n\r\nThis
    is a mountain must come to Mohamet excuse! However, if you want to set aside a
    day for me in Brighton, I'll set aside a day for you in Brighton. Just name the
    day. But while I admit I could help you out somewhat, it's not really me you need:
    it's Berlow, who has designed more professional quality glyphs than anyone else
    on the planet. Perhaps he expects you to come to him. Heaven knows, others have.
    Perhaps you mind that? Others, too, did, no doubt. But they made the pilgrimage,
    and they came away enriched. We all benefitted.  \r\n\r\n>However, it is also
    necessary to just learn FLS if you want to use it at full power.\r\n\r\nYuri,
    I don't think that's fair, you know I sometimes read the manual . . . . . "
  created: '2007-04-08 22:42:37'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "> It is all hopelessly inept and you should all be embarassed to present
    such things in version 5 software. Excuse such harsh words, but if there ever
    was a time to speak plainly, it is now.\r\n\r\nWell, metrics table (and many other
    MW improvements) was first introduced in FLS5 so for this block of features this
    is really a 1.0 release. For many features (like multi-line, table, \"metrics
    tools\") we actually took Font Studio as a sample, not Fog. For others (new metrics
    panel) we took Fog. Some features (live OT class-based kerning editing with exceptions
    and kerning/metrics templates) we had to invent new UI - there was nothing like
    that before. I don't think it is fair to blame us for UI misfeatures in new MW
    which is just really new. It is improving in any new update and will continue
    to be improved. I expect that new feedback that will come from TypeTool 3 (which
    has simplified version of FLS MW) will let us improve it even more.  "
  created: '2007-04-08 23:46:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "[watery dissolve]\r\n\r\nThe right hand is operating the arrow keys, or the
    bracket keys.\r\n\r\nThe left hand is operating the modifier keys, Shift, Option,
    Command and Control.\r\n\r\nThe hands never move, except to type a non-adjacent
    glyph (alphabetically),  that you need displayed. \r\n\r\n(In the last versions
    of fog3.5, when the glyph repertoire out-distanced the length of the keyboard
    and memory of the kerner, another keyboard command brought a window so you could
    type the desired glyph number.)\r\n\r\nThe arrows, unmodified, accomplish all
    movement of the cursor amongst the cells that represent either values or glyphs.\r\n\r\nIn
    glyph cells, cmmd - [ or ] go to next & previous glyph.\r\n\r\nIn the side bearing
    value cells, cmmd-arrow (left  -, right  +) change the width value by 1 unit (Cmmd
    Shift 10 unit change to the value.)\r\n\r\nIn the side bearing value cells, cmmd-option-shift
    arrow (L or R only), change the kerning value. (Cmmd option Shift arrow X10 change
    to kerning value.)\r\n\r\n[watery resolve]\r\n\r\nI'm pretty sure that's how it
    worked. Numbers were not typed, and there were not separate cells to cursor to
    to affect kerning vs. spacing. (If I didn't mention a key above, it wasn't used!)(I
    can't remember if or for what Control was used for, but it's far from the action
    anyway)\r\n\r\nIt's somewhat Ironic, it was so fast that I didn't need class kerning,
    \ remembering every value as if it was entered seconds ago ;)\r\n\r\nThe ideal,
    (90% of which exists!;)) would be to kern the first style manually and \"like
    the wind\", distill it purely numerically to classify and test the class kerning,
    and then, use and modify the class control kerning pairs as you design the next
    style of the family with kerning nearly complete. \r\n\r\nWe pretty much do this,
    I think most others do too, except for the \"like the wind\" part.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    I don't think anyone needs to increase their carbon footprint on account of this
    issue by running around kerning in public, but if that will help, I will gladly
    represent those who do kerning this way, have done it this way and would like
    to do so again, or don't do kerning this way but might be interested. \r\n\r\nI
    will investigate recording a kerning vidoe. I thought about this a while ago,
    but a problem I see is to textually display the input of the keyboard (instead
    of video-o-fingers), to a recoding of the metrics window, and I'm not that kind
    of guy. Failing that, I will be making semi-decadic journeys to both Europe (TypeBerlin)
    and the West Coast (TypeCon) this year and if anyone approaches me armed with
    an old enough Mac, I will be armed with a new enough Victorinox data knife. :)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 14:22:51'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Well, metrics table (and many other MW improvements) was first introduced
    in FLS5 so for this block of features this is really a 1.0 release.\r\n\r\nFair
    enough. But consider a brand-new, super-duper, four-dimensional relational database
    that doesn't . . \r\n. . . \r\n\r\n. . . .\r\n\r\nlet you tab from field to field.\r\n\r\nConsider
    for that matter a webform, any webform in the world, that doesn't let you tab
    from field to field.\r\n\r\nWhat would you do with it? You would close it. You
    would not give information to an organization that was so dodgy that they couldn't
    design a webform that let you tab from field to field.\r\n\r\nYet you expect users
    to put up with this in the software you write for them.\r\n\r\nAnd while we're
    bashing beloved font programmers, Earth to Erik Blokland. Erik, have you fixed
    those errors in the code for the Robofab tutorials yet? Have you fixed that dodgy
    four-for-three code yet?"
  created: '2007-04-09 15:41:40'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Failing that, I will be making semi-decadic journeys to both Europe (TypeBerlin)
    and the West Coast (TypeCon) this year and if anyone approaches me armed with
    an old enough Mac, I will be armed with a new enough Victorinox data knife. :)\r\n\r\nWell
    Yuri? Why wait? What's the matter with tomorrow? Offers like this don't come every
    day. And please let me not hear one more syllable about blogs, email, screen captures
    and videos (forsooth!) - - - - if David's videos are as good as his writing .
    . . .  you see? You have to sit down with the guy. Here's your chance. Besides,
    Yuri - - - - you're not going to take it seriously unless it costs you something
    -- at least a plane ticket -- to get it. A couple of days. It might take awhile
    to establish how to COMMUNICATE together. David Berlow is not the greatest communicator
    in the world. But he is the one person in the world who can most help you to write
    better software."
  created: '2007-04-09 15:53:09'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: Living in US you have no idea what it takes to make a trip there from here.
    Let me take a first step and try to implement some things and check if they are
    good. I've spent months getting FontStudio metrics UI into FLS, now I will spend
    some more time getting Fog35 there.
  created: '2007-04-09 16:10:09'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "I have to take another look at FontStudio. You already long since put in
    the most important FS feature (thanks to Bill!), namely cursor control of handles,
    which is one of the best things about working in Flab. I don't remember liking
    the metrics window particularly, and consider this: there are two known people
    mad about FontStudio, L de Groot and C Twombly. A lot of other people consider
    the Fog interface a lot more important. Which is the one worth spending your time
    on? We do need more zoom, in spite of well-established methods for tricking Flab
    into zooming more than it wants. \r\n\r\nI don't live in the US. See you in Brighton?
    \r\n\r\nImportant thing in learning from Fog35 metrics is also learning from Fog
    4/5 metrics without ruining it all . . . . but in any case, the metrics table
    is a feature unique to Flab, and I think it is potentially great. Even with all
    this complaining, I can't think of doing first pass fitting without it, especially
    now that I have customized the strings.\r\n\r\nQuestion: at what point size can
    you rely on screen accuracy with Flab metrics window, assuming a normal text PS
    font and key screen resolutions such as 1024x768, 1600x1200, 1600x1920, etc. That
    is to say, at what point size will a one or two or three unit cursor movement
    be accurately reflected onscreen, with pixel shifting artefacts cancelled out?
    An interesting resolution/anti-aliasing calculation . . . . .\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 20:54:23'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "OK, I improved navigation in the MW table. Tab and Shift-Tab scrolls cells
    horizontally and vertical arrows browse glyphs (without closing the editing field).
    I also added there Ctrl+Arrow increment/decrement of the value (without closing
    edit field) so panel and table behave the same.\r\n\r\nWhat can I say? It works.
    It works much better than before. Thank you!"
  created: '2007-04-10 20:49:40'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "That's great. Keys in MTable should work same as in MPanel. Consider also
    that the in the panel, the cell identifying the key should also be active. One
    thing great is the way you can keyboard-select by half-spelling the character
    in MW. For example, d gets you d, da gets you dagger double, and dagger gets you
    dagger. Nice. \r\n\r\nNow, let's get serious. About metrics. I'm starting fresh.
    I select sidebearings of 150, 150 for H. OK. Let me now press a button and have
    those values proliferate to I, left side of B, etc. \r\n\r\nYou can see where
    this is leading, and how much time it can save? Like, more time than any single
    font-building feature invented since 1989? "
  created: '2007-04-11 09:44:56'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> I select sidebearings of 150, 150 for H. OK. Let me now \r\n> press a button
    and have those values proliferate to I, \r\n> left side of B, etc.\r\n\r\nIn the
    Classes panel, set up two metrics classes: one named \".H1\" with the LSB scope
    activated, where H is the key glyph and I and B are dependent glyphs, and one
    named \".H2\" with the RSB scope activated, where H is the key glyph and I is
    the dependent glyph. You can proliferate the values now using either the small
    button below the \"H\" glyph (\"copy to...\") or using the Metrics Assistance.
    \r\n\r\nYou can also go into the LSB field of \"I\" and type \"=H\". \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-04-11 11:42:55'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">You can also go into the LSB field of \u201CI\u201D and type \u201C=H\u201D.\r\n\r\nIn
    the current instance I am running, doing that will give you a value of 0, which
    is not the value of LSB. Obviously something is wrong -- maybe it's OK on Win?
    \r\n\r\nBuilding classes thing sounds good -- would you recommend Mac or Win for
    this?\r\n\r\nCan you do something like say RSB of n is 5% less than LSB of n? "
  created: '2007-04-11 12:31:38'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "> Can you do something like say RSB of n is 5% less than LSB of n?\r\n\r\nYes,
    with classes (which can be auto-generated) and Metrics assistant."
  created: '2007-04-11 13:57:01'
- author:
    name: malcolm
    picture: 109919
  body: "Although we have FL5 we have never used it for serious production work. We
    still use FL4.6 on both Mac and PC.\r\n\r\nIt is just not financially justified
    in the amount of time and resources it takes to make the change to 5  - compared
    to the increased benefits of running 5 over 4.6.\r\n\r\njust my 5p's worth."
  created: '2007-04-11 16:40:21'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: ">You can also go into the LSB field of \u201CI\u201D and type \u201C=H\u201D.\r\n\r\n>
    In the current instance I am running, doing that will \r\n> give you a value of
    0, which is not the value of LSB. \r\n\r\nIt does work in the Metrics panel (which
    is the horizontal Fontographer-like thing) but not in the Metrics table (which
    is the vertical FontStudio-like thing). \r\n\r\nAs Yuri pointed out, the Metrics/Kerning
    table is a 1.0 release in FontLab Studio 5, i.e. the very first implementation
    of this kind of work. \r\n\r\nPlease keep in mind that font technology has been
    a \"running fox\" in the past years. Digital image editing has followed virtually
    the same principles for decades, so Photoshop has been a mature application for
    years. The novelty of digital photography RAW image \"development\" has brought
    about brand-new 1.0 applications such as Aperture and Photoshop Lightroom. At
    Fontlab Ltd., we have not developed a brand-new application just for OpenType
    font production, but instead, we integrated many of the new concepts into FontLab
    Studio. So to some extent, FontLab Studio is a \"5.0\" application but in some
    regards, it's \"1.0\". \r\n\r\nIn fact, I consider FontLab Studio 5.0 the most
    important upgrade to the FontLab product since the switch from 2.5 to 3.0. While
    we did not revamp the UI completely in FontLab Studio 5, we have improved practically
    every single aspect of the application. I do realize that some people still use
    FontLab 4.6, but I must admit that I'm quite surprised with that. Especially since
    we release 5.0.2 a year ago -- an updated that fixed many important problems and
    bugs that were still there in 5.0.0 and 5.0.1. \r\n\r\nI'm currently working on
    some ideas for better communicating with users and on improving the way feature
    suggestions and problem reports can be submitted. I will announce some solutions
    soon. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam Twardoch\r\n  Product and Marketing Manager\r\n
    \ Fontlab Ltd.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-11 17:24:24'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">>You can also go into the LSB field of \u201CI\u201D and type \u201C=H\u201D.\r\n\r\n>
    In the current instance I am running, doing that will\r\n> give you a value of
    0, which is not the value of LSB.\r\n\r\nIt does work in the Metrics panel (which
    is the horizontal Fontographer-like thing) but not in the Metrics table (which
    is the vertical FontStudio-like thing). <\r\n\r\nNot on the Mac it doesn't. You
    get zero. "
  created: '2007-04-11 20:22:52'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "> It does work in the Metrics panel (which is the horizontal Fontographer-like
    thing) but not in the Metrics table (which is the vertical FontStudio-like thing).\r\n\r\nAnother
    thing to fix."
  created: '2007-04-11 20:32:58'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Anyone else reading this will be terribly confused. \r\n\r\nI forgot to write
    above my quote: it DOESN'T work (type in I for LSB) in the Mac version. Yuri,
    who is capable of reading thoughts amongst his other accomplishments (it's one
    of the great secret achievements of the Soviet science), realized what I meant,
    but others may not. I can't wait to try it out in Win -- but trust me, anyone
    who can't get 5.02 to be rock solid stable on the Mac has got something wrong
    with their system.\r\n\r\nYuri, here's another weird slight bug in the Metrics
    Table. If you are in Metrics mode, and switch to Kerning mode, and then switch
    back to Metrics mode, the sort order (Glyph) gets wrecked and can't be re-sorted.
    You have to close the entire metrics window and then re-open it. Observed so far
    only on Mac. All the more reason to be able to kern in the metrics mode panel
    . . . although I appreciate the logic of making the separation. Fog did too, because
    you could make kerning visible or invisible in the metrics window, though you
    could always see the values. Also irritating is that if you change from SB by
    guideline back and forth, you lose your place in the metrics table. Keeping focus
    in the metrics table is important, if it is going to be used at all, though there
    is of course the difficulty of balancing that against the metrics panel's needs."
  created: '2007-04-11 22:46:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"but trust me, anyone who can\u2019t get 5.02 to be rock solid stable on
    the Mac has got something wrong with their system.\"\r\n\r\nMy what astounding
    confidence! Pretty amazing prediction coming from someone who has never seen my
    system. I would be curious what rigorous testing you did to come to this absolute
    conclusion?\r\nI find it curious that the ONLY program that ever freezes on my
    system is FontLab 5.02. \r\nThe most common way the spinning beach ball from hell
    begins its endless path to the error message \"FontLab is Not responding\" is
    when I zoom in on a part of a glyph. It does not happen every time I do it but
    at least once a work session.  I use the keyboard shortcut command and spacebar
    plus dragging a bounding box with the mouse around the area I wish to zoom to.
    \ This works just like the Adobe apps but they are much more stable. It goes to
    wongaland more often when zooming in the mask layer but it happened to me three
    times in a row in the glyph window just an hour ago.\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-12 01:57:24'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Certainly that should never happen. It''s too common an operation. Are you
    sure you''re on the latest build of 5.02? What''s your hardware setup and are
    you on OS 10.4.8? (I''m afraid to switch to 10.4.9.) Do you always run some other
    program at the same time? If all else fails, since it is so easy to have a separate
    partition or boot disk on Mac, why not try a completely fresh install of 10.4.8
    with no additional programs? At the moment I''m using only a Ti-book 800 with
    only 512 MB RAM. I''m always simultaneously running at least Cog or iTunes, Unison,
    Safari, Font Explorer, Quark 7, and Fog OS X. If I try to run much more on this
    particular machine, it slows down. I would almost hazard a guess that there is
    a video driver problem. This might have been solved if you are on an earlier version
    of OS X. Why don''t you contact me offline and let''s see if we can''t troubleshoot
    this. '
  created: '2007-04-12 08:44:08'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "A.T. -- <cite>I do realize that some people still use FontLab 4.6, but I
    must admit that I\u2019m quite surprised with that. Especially since we release
    5.0.2 a year ago</cite>\r\n\r\nWasn't there a recent post somewhere mentioning
    Freehand <cite>9</cite> and XPress <cite>4</cite>? I.e. two to three versions
    before the current one, not just a 0.4 difference. (How many years have passed
    since these have been published?) Also, I know people who are happy with CS1 and
    have no plans to update to CS3. I don't think these are exceptions, it's reality.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2007-04-12 08:49:14'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> ...the ONLY program that ever freezes on my system is FontLab 5.02.\r\n\r\nTrue
    and true. FL and Force Quit are really  really really good friends.  The problem
    is/was with OS X 10.4, 10.4.7, 10.4.8, 10.4.9. "
  created: '2007-04-12 09:26:24'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'It''s not possible to help with HW/SW problems if you don''t give any HW/SW
    details. Checking for latest external peripheral drivers is important, too. For
    example, are you using a Wacom tablet and have you got the latest driver installed?
    (My rock solid FL 5.02 system works fine with 6.0.0-3.) Here''s a small user group
    and some are having no problems at all and some hare having a lot. If we could
    identify a common thread amongst those who are having problems (like maybe it''s
    the same video card or driver), then we could get somewhere. In a reasonably standard
    system, there are only so many things that can go wrong. The video system is one
    of them. Pointing devices and any other kind of peripheral need to be looked at
    too. Fontlab is too small a company for it to test on every likely Mac configuration,
    but I am certain this problem can be solved. If I didn''t have pretty extensive
    personal experience with 5.02 and its stability, and know others who have had
    the same experience, I wouldn''t be so sure that the problem must be relatively
    easily isolatable. As a first step I would go into System Profiler (from the Apple
    Menu/About This Mac/More Info/Save as/, save the info, and email it to Adam. If
    you were feeling really sadistic you could cc me, as I would be interested to
    have a look. '
  created: '2007-04-12 12:26:03'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Here's another interface suggestion for the metrics window.\r\n\r\nYou open
    up the metrics window with a key combo. THE FIRST THING you want to do is to start
    typing a string!!!!\r\n\r\nSo you start typing. And nothing happens. Nothing at
    all. Here's a great example of a completely wasted opportunity. Focus should automatically
    go to the content bar or whatever it's called in the MW -- so that if you want
    to do something -- like type -- something actually happens. This is a perfect
    example of good interface design. You use a key to open something; You press some
    more keys and something else happens. It's simple, easy to grasp . . . . . that's
    the way it's all supposed to be . . . . . . . ."
  created: '2007-04-12 14:05:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am running the most current build of OS-X (10.4.9). My system is a 2 and
    a half year old G-5 Mac Dual processor desktop with 4 gigs of RAM. I have the
    standard mouse and keyboard--no Wacom or any other such devices. I never run any
    other program while working in FontLab. Occasionally, I have a small text editor
    open when using FontLab when I am writing Opentype features since the built-in
    text window in the FL5 opentype panel is run by voodoo. (I began using a Mac under
    system 2 before multitasking and got in the habit of quitting a program before
    opening a new one.)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-12 14:10:14'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: There really shouldn't be a problem on a new system like that. Have you tried
    installing a new partition, absolutely clean install, with no additional programs
    other than Fontlab? If your stability problems then went away, you would know
    there was some kind of conflict with some other installed software. If they didn't
    go away, you would I think be safe in deducing there was a hardware problem. I
    _have_ had problems in the past. There is something one can do on relatively simple
    system that conflicts with Fontlab. Whatever it is, I'm not doing it now. I don't
    even have Acrobat installed on this system. I'm really curious about this.
  created: '2007-04-12 14:23:27'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "There really shouldn't be a problem on a new system like that. Have you tried
    installing a new partition, absolutely clean install, with no additional programs
    other than Fontlab? If your stability problems then went away, you would know
    there was some kind of conflict with some other installed software. If they didn't
    go away, you would I think be safe in deducing there was a hardware problem. I
    _have_ had problems in the past. There is something one can do on relatively simple
    system that conflicts with Fontlab. Whatever it is, I'm not doing it now. I don't
    even have Acrobat installed on this system. I'm really curious about this.\r\n\r\nAnother
    interface suggestion: MULTIPLE BACKGROUND/MASK LAYERS. Like 1 through 9. This
    could be tremendously useful -- I would love to have it right now. And of course,
    undo/redo that is layer-specific. And being able to perform transformations whether
    the mask content is bezier or pixel flavoured. "
  created: '2007-04-12 14:29:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I use the keyboard shortcut command and spacebar plus dragging a bounding
    box with the mouse around the area I wish to zoom to.</em>\r\n\r\nI never have
    that problem.\r\nHowever, I don't use keyboard shortcuts with the zoom tool.\r\nI'm
    running FL5 on an Intel Mac.\r\n\r\nThe only time FL5 has frozen on me is when
    I dragged a zoom marquee box around a referenced path, so I always just click
    to select those."
  created: '2007-04-12 14:49:08'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "@ChrisL:\r\n\r\nIn case you had your Mac update itself (eg automatically),
    or you used the incremental Updater that's on Apple's site \u2014 download the
    Combo Updater (MacOSXUpdCombo10.4.9PPC.dmg) from Apple's site and run that. The
    Combo updater is more reliable."
  created: '2007-04-12 15:06:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I am finding the @ symbol in the preview window extremely convenient (=time
    saving). It works--substituting the selected character--not only when you select
    a glyph in the metrics window, but also in the glyph window. That means with the
    @ symbol in a control string, the character you are working on drawing or re-drawing
    automatically jumps into the control string in the preview window. That is very
    convenient also. Please document in the Manual! \r\n\r\nWhile I am at it, here
    is a bug: with a character selected in the metrics window, on a PC if I move the
    left side bearing with the arrow keys + ctrl, then I can switch to the right sidebearing
    and continuing working with the arrow keys + ctrl & alt. But if I work on the
    right sidebearing first, then the left sidebearing is frozen, and to activate
    it I have to click on the character again.  "
  created: '2007-04-12 15:18:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...FL5 has frozen on me is when I dragged a zoom marquee box around a referenced
    path,\"\r\n\r\nPerhaps the 2 problems are related since they both involve the
    marquee box?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-12 16:36:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Bert! I will give it a try.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-12 16:37:11'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Wasn\u2019t there a recent post somewhere mentioning Freehand 9 \r\n> and
    XPress 4? (...) I know people who are happy with CS1 \r\n> and have no plans to
    update to CS3. I don\u2019t think these \r\n> are exceptions, it\u2019s reality.\r\n\r\nThat's
    true. But I also know that financial reasons are one of significant factors in
    such case. Upgrading the Creative Suite or QuarkXPress -- especially if you also
    own some plugins or extensions -- usually means spending many hundreds or several
    thousands of dollars. Going from FontLab 4.6 to Studio 5 is US$99, which I think
    is an excellent price for the value of what you get. \r\n\r\nHowever, since I
    use FontLab Studio 5 very very often, and I have considerably contributed to the
    new version, I obviously like the outcome. Perhaps the objective advantage of
    5 vs. 4.6 is not that huge, though I still think it's significant and definitely
    worth the upgrade price. \r\n\r\nSimply speaking, many of the problems that 4.6
    users have simply go away in 5. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-04-12 17:54:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "FL5 is way better than 4.6 and worth the $99. Let's hope there continues
    to be improvement in the near future.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-12 18:03:58'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'For some reason, the thread on Carol Twombly now contains some discussion
    which should have been included here. The major point I want to make is that the
    Flab implementation of cursor controllable handles a la Studio is half-hearted.
    The glory of studio is that you can tab from control point to node to control
    point to control point on NEXT node, to NEXT node, to second control on point
    on NEXT node, and so on. You can keep on going, so long as the points are selected.
    This is one of the greatest bits of aesthetic fine tuning a computer program has
    ever offered. Flab should do it this way. Any reason why not, Yuri? '
  created: '2007-04-13 23:39:43'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: Combination of PgUp-PgDn and Tab is not enough for node-handle navigation?
  created: '2007-04-16 14:21:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Combination of PgUp-PgDn and Tab is not enough for node-handle navigation\"\r\n\r\nI
    didn't know about that one! Someone really needs to write a book called \"Really
    Cool Sh\xEEt You Didn't Know About FontLab\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-16 16:53:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Someone really needs to write a book\r\n\r\nYeah, it's known as the manual,
    which is the most serious weakness of the FontLab program. And yes, the manual
    is an integral part of the program. \r\n\r\nIt's weaknesses include: \r\n\r\n1.
    Missing documentation, such as the fact that if you shift, then click and hold
    on a curve it will control move the handles, but not the nodes--mentioned in another
    thread--and other things mentioned above and elsewhere. \r\n\r\n2. Things documented,
    inventory style, but *not* put into the context of a work process. This includes
    the 'PgUp - PgDn and Tab' controls just mentioned by Yuri. It is in the manual,
    but not in an accessible way--hence neither Chris nor I nor I would guess most
    others know about it. --I did know about the page up page down, but not the tab
    control. "
  created: '2007-04-16 17:06:47'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Sure it's good enough. But when is good enough, good enough? It's three keys
    to do what FontStudio does with one. \r\n\r\nLet's look at it more closely. Let's
    look at the hand movements. \r\n\r\nWith Studio, everything is accomplished with
    the tab key in the left hand and the cursor arrows in the right hand. No need
    to move. No need to think about what you're doing. Your eye/brain is in complete
    control. It is a seamless, thrilling, creative experience.\r\n\r\nNow let's look
    at FontLab with the extra keys. \r\n\r\nYou may easily be working on a keyboard
    where PgUp/PgDn is physically distant from the arrow keys. You may be on a Mac
    laptop where you have to press FN to get PgUp/PgDn. You may be on a Dell where
    the arrow keys are at the bottom of the keyboard and the Pg keys are at the top.\r\n\r\nThe
    two extra (and quite unnecessary) keys you are asking for create a lot of extra
    hunting and pecking, even for touch typists. \r\n\r\nSo no, it isn't good enough.
    The goal should always be that you are looking for ways to make things the MOST
    simple, the LEAST intrusive. \r\n\r\nWhy use three keys when you can use one?
    \r\n\r\nWhy create extra movements (from arrow keys to Page/Up/Dn keys) when you
    don't have to? \r\n\r\nWhat makes the Studio experience great is that you can
    contemplate the glyph and perfect it and NOTHING gets in your creative way.\r\n\r\nThat
    said, it is a good thing in FontLab to have keys that navigate from point to point.
    I'm not convinced those should necessarily be Pg/Up/Dn because it might also be
    nice to have those for moving the glyph or metrics window up and down. Maybe Pg/Up/Dn
    really should be allowed to do just that.\r\n\r\nNevertheless, here is the compromise
    I would propose, combining the best parts of FontLab and FontStudio:\r\n\r\nLeave
    Pg/Up/Dn as point navigation tools. Simply change (perhaps by a live option --
    not a preference) the way Tab works. Instead of Tab confining you to one point
    (if you want to go back, you have Shift-Tab anyway), let Tab get you from handle,
    to node, to handle, to next node, like Studio does. \r\n\r\nNow you have the best
    of both worlds, and you have improved upon the Studio experience, because Studio
    will only let you dance from node to node if they are all selected. \r\n\r\nDOES
    FLAB HAVE A SLOWDOWN KEY? \r\n\r\nIn Fog, there's a key, I forget which, perhaps
    control, perhaps option, whatever, that slows down movement in metrics and glyph
    windows, allowing you to have much finer cursor control. With Flab, I am always
    running out of precision. I want to drag a handle in the metrics window by five
    units, but the minimum change is ten -- for example. Is there a key that I can
    press that will stretch this all out as I can in Fog? \r\n\r\nIn addition to multiple
    background layers, have you thought about different right and left points for
    the measuring line, not to mention right and left anchor points in glyphs for
    the measuring line? Not to mention measuring lines that are unique on a glyph
    by glyph basis, rather than being global? "
  created: '2007-04-16 17:32:24'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "Tab key and PgUp-PgDn are separated because node and handles are different
    things. It is much easier to adjust handles with single Tab key than to break
    your fingers with Shift-Tab. But you are right, there could be an option which
    extends Tab over all available handles and nodes.\r\n\r\nThere is no \"slowdown
    key\" in FLS. There is \"live zoom\" which I think is much more useful. While
    you are dragging node (or anything else) you can very quickly zoom in and zoom
    out with Z and X keys. You don't have to release mouse button.\r\n\r\nWe had \"slow
    key\" in FL 2.5 but I always had a problem with that feature (same in Fog): it
    is not really easy to move mouse in slow mode to position the point as you want
    it. Live zoom works much better for me. When mouse is not pressed - Alt-wheel
    works as zoom tool.\r\n\r\nHowever, slow key is good in metrics window, I will
    try to find a way to integrate it."
  created: '2007-04-16 20:34:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"You don\u2019t have to release mouse button.\"\r\n...is there a keystroke
    for locking and unlocking the glyph window so the other shortcuts become possible
    without going to the lock?\r\n\r\n\"PgUp - PgDn and Tab\u2019 controls just mentioned
    by Yuri\"\r\nLefties rule! but really who's this for? if you're in the glyph window,
    on the little buggers outline, who needs to tab through the points and for what?
    fog's point info panel let one change all sort of things about a point from a
    dialog box. So tabbing through the points and changing things was useful in some
    old way that was fully kbd-based but I've forgottten. Does FL have such a dialog
    box for points?\r\n\r\n\"FontLab 4.6 to Studio 5 is US$99\"\r\nAre there any first-class
    ugrades available for this flight? I'd go as high as $299 for my own private hybrid
    FLOG Classic! ;)"
  created: '2007-04-17 17:36:00'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Does FL have such a dialog box for points?\r\n\r\nEdit / Properties.\r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-04-17 20:10:56'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Adam, I must say I find that Flab property box rather confusing compared
    to Fog''s, which is pretty straightforward. What advice would you give someone
    trying to bridge the gap? David, FontStudio is obviously too primitive to have
    appealed much to you even in its infancy, but I do think the tab-dance through
    handles/points is a really elegant modus operandi. I can see why designers as
    disparate as Twombley and de Groot like it so much. I am more and more frustrated
    by the separation of kerning and metrics in Flab. I''m doing metrics. I see a
    problem, I want to do a kern. Now I have to switch to kerning mode, an annoying
    hunt and peck with mouse move. Now I have to switch back to metrics. But whoa,
    the switch, in the Mac version, means that the metrics table is in no sort of
    order, and can''t be re-ordered -- and there are now all kinds of problems with
    the arrow/opt shortcuts. The only cure is to close the current metrics/kerning
    window and open a new one. Lots of time lost there, and much fraying of temper.
    Although I can see some philosophical justification for separating the two operations,
    there now appears to me no practical benefit; the separation only seems to make
    things worse. Even if the bug with the re-sorted metrics table were fixed, it
    would still be tedious to keep on switching back and forth. The operations in
    reality are not separable. David, what''s your position on this? '
  created: '2007-04-18 23:38:08'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "OK, here's my first crash in 5.02 within Mac within recent memory. Open four-master
    font, open metrics window, switch to kerning mode. Open the metrics table -- called
    the kerning table? Delete some pairs that only have 0 values by highlighting and
    pressing delete key. Sure to crash. \r\n\r\nYuri, another problem with metrics/kerning
    tables is that you can't select a group of values to delete. Obviously, the table
    should be fully editable.\r\n\r\nSo: is there ANY method in the metrics view to
    view kerning?"
  created: '2007-04-23 09:25:10'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"> Does FL have such a dialog box for points?\r\n\r\n>Edit / Properties.\r\n\r\nAhh...but
    a. it doesn't seem to know what properties are important (to a type designer),
    or b. whatever in the world to do with TT point properties?\r\n\r\nFog once again
    provides a perfect model that should be looked at. \r\nFog allows: adjustment
    of coordinates, flipping point to on-off curve, start-point definition, and point
    type definition. Catch up! (or tell me what I'm missing in this undocumented little
    buttons that seem to do nothing. \r\n\r\nFrom the \"Did you know?\" departament\xE9:
    FL allows a glyph to be 1/2 TT and half T1 at the same time! (this makes it 1/2
    as hard to convert to one format or aother, I s'pose ;)"
  created: '2007-04-30 13:45:46'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"I\u2019m doing metrics. I see a problem, I want to do a kern.\"\r\n\r\nI
    don't work this way, usually, so I don't share your passion for a single kern/metrics
    view. I actually like having the operations separated so I don't accidentally
    destroy a width instead of add a kerning pair. I recall that with FOG, I had to
    be careful to avoid that pitfall. \r\n\r\nWhile it doesn't solve the overall problem,
    there is another way you could get around this: It's possible to have 2 metrics/kerning
    windows open at once. Leave them both open. One can be in kerning mode and the
    other can be in metrics mode. Switch back and forth between windows and nothing
    is lost. "
  created: '2007-04-30 17:13:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Switch back and forth between windows and nothing is lost.\"\r\n\r\nI like
    that idea, Carl.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-30 18:37:19'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "I don't! Nothing is lost except my sanity and my focus. There's a little
    checkbox in the Fog metrics window. Show kerning. Don't show it. Way to go. I
    should not be having to look at two windows. Besides, there is never enough screen
    real estate anyway. I want a metrics window to be as big as possible -- preferably
    filling one of the at least two monitors I always use. I don't want that screen
    real estate being completely wasted by an unnecessary window. Not only do I have
    to switch back and forth visually, but there is the matter of all the additional
    mouse/pointer movements that entails. Good software is about minimizing effort.
    How do I minimize how long it takes to get from a to b. Period. Nevertheless,
    Carl, I am grateful for the suggestion. I was too annoyed for it to occur to me.
    It's not ideal but it is a workaround. \r\n\r\nI also take your point about inadvertently
    making a kern instead of changing a width in Fog, but since you must be in the
    kern cell to do that, it doesn't seem to me to be that easy. It is always possible
    to do unintended things in a metrics window. I do it all the time in Flab, and
    rather more so than I used to in Fog, it seems to me, because of the unintuitive
    way it works. For example, you have left sidebearing and you have right sidebearing.
    You have, to the left of the spacebar on a Mac keyboard, the command key, and
    to the left of that, the option key. So you've got this little pair of keys, in
    a row, that control your right and left sidebearings. Common sense, everything
    that man has learned since the invention of the wheel, dictates that the leftmost
    of these keys, option, will control left sidebearing, and that the rightmost of
    these keys, command, will control right sidebearing. \r\n\r\nWhere does FontLab
    get off reversing this natural order? \r\n\r\nI think I'll go a little further.
    Though I really do like the Flab paradigm of letting you change sidebearings without
    being in the cell (the way Fog demands) it is just because of that I think it
    is easier to make an inadvertent mistake in Flab, especially because the natural
    order of left and right is inexplicably reversed. \r\n\r\nNeedless to say, this
    indignant argument only applies if you are using a Powerbook keyboard that doesn't
    mirror the option and command keys each side of the keyboard. On a full keyboard,
    you could use the right hand side of the keyboard. But that still isn't intuitive.
    You should be using the left hand to control whether right or left sidebearing,
    and the right hand, on the arrow keys, to control the amount. Let cmd-opt together
    control kerning (since we want to reserve the control key for slow-down). David
    has pointed out how adept Fog is at utilizing your right and left hands and getting
    them to work together. \r\n\r\nAll of this said, it seems to me I must have forgotten
    some Fog shortcut for adjusting metrics values -- what have I missed? \r\n\r\nDavid,
    I'm very glad to hear your comment on the Flab properties box. I was too embarrassed
    (if you can believe that) to ask the same question. Fog properties are a great
    model. Being able to switch point type is great/set startpoint, etc. -- everything
    is great about it. \r\n\r\nWould someone from Fontlab care to explain how the
    point property box works and how it relates to Fog's? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-02 23:10:03'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: (they must be looking in the manual)
  created: '2007-05-05 22:21:55'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Here's another question. I'm working with a four-master font. I want to make
    small numbers. I scale them appropriately. Now I have to hand edit them to change
    weight appropriately. \r\n\r\nAt _this_ point I would like a button that says,
    any point you move in one master will move the corresponding amount in all the
    other masters. (Indeed, that is a kind of feature that needs to proliferate throughout
    the interface.) That will not obviously work for every glyph/weight combination,
    but it will work for some; it will be a good starting point and a big labour-saver.
    \r\n\r\nThis can presently be kludgily done, I would have thought, using Transform/Shift,
    since that can be applied to one or all masters. BUT, mark the ineffable intellectual
    impulse behind this, the SHIFT command in Flab moves only the glyph. By contrast,
    in Fog, the corresponding command moves EITHER the glyph OR whatever points are
    selected. \r\n\r\nIt seems to me such an obvious need that points in a master
    will at times need to be moved simultaneously that I feel sure there must be an
    existing way to do this. Could someone let me in on the secret? \r\n\r\nA sentence
    from 'La Cousine Bette' irresistably springs to mind, 'The secret of the profund
    secrecy of this secret was as follows . . . .'"
  created: '2007-05-06 09:53:22'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "So instead of something really useful and natural like a transformation command
    capable of moving selected points in several masters, or an editing mode where
    whatever you do to one point is reflected in the other masters, I am looking at
    some gee-whiz features that seem to have cost a lot of development effort:\r\n\r\n'neighbours'\r\nsketch
    mode\r\ninterpolate nodes\r\nmove nodes (which seems to be broken on the Mac)\r\n\r\nCan
    anyone tell me if these features are actually useful in professional font design?
    And if you had a choice, what would you prefer? Multiple master point editing
    or . . . . neighbours . . . sketch . . . . move . . . . interpolate. The last
    named seems to me particularly clever and particularly useless.\r\n\r\nThat said,
    there is a much more sophisticated thing that could be happening. Suppose you
    move a point -- the top of the inner o contour -- down ten units, to increase
    density. Wouldn't it be nice if the neighbouring handles, relating to the two
    (left/right) nodes below, were correspondingly shortened? Or that the corresponding
    bottom point might be heightened? That, if anything, is how the 'interpolate'
    mode ought to work. It would then be doing something that is actually useful in
    professional font design.\r\n\r\nThis is something that actual, professional,
    real-life font designers who make actual type faces, Yuri, actually do have to
    do every day. \r\n\r\nIt seems to me again that too much input is being accepted
    from enthusiastic hobbyists, not enough from those who actually know how to make
    good type."
  created: '2007-05-06 13:06:03'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Neighbors is useful when making connecting scripts.
  created: '2007-05-06 15:26:00'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I had been contemplating buying Font Lab for months now, but after reading
    all this here I'm getting pretty darn scared of the thing. I think I'll stick
    with my decade-old copy of Fontographer a while longer, until I hear word of at
    least the documentation being brought up to snuff. The most powerful features
    in the world are of little use without instructions on how to use them to acheive
    a desired result.
  created: '2007-05-07 04:00:48'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "In spite of the fact that working in Fontlab is always irritating and working
    in Fontographer isn't, I now do 95% of my work in Fontlab. The quality of Fontlab's
    anti-aliased metrics window, plus its ability to work with multiple masters and
    'open'type fluidly, make its choice inevitable. On the other hand, if I had to
    draw a font from scratch, especially if it were an historical model and I was
    using bitmaps in the background layer, I would still probably use Fontographer.
    That said, when I use Fontographer, I use the old Fontographer 5 beta, mainly
    because of the 3200% zoom and improved interface, which I could never live without.
    And once the drawing was done, I would probably switch to Fontlab. \r\n\r\nThe
    problem with Fontlab isn't the documentation. The problem is that the authors
    use documentation as a crutch instead of figuring out how to make the program
    more helpful. \r\n\r\nThe criticism of Fontlab on this thread has been trenchant
    to say the least, but you can't criticize to this extent if you weren't using
    the program all the time, and we wouldn't be using it all the time if it weren't
    worth it. \r\n\r\nWhen you're using Fontographer, you're very happy because everything
    that is there works well. But you do have in the back of your mind the feeling,
    what if? What if this program could actually do x, y, and z? Wouldn't that be
    a dream come true? \r\n\r\nMany of those dreams have been courageously brought
    to reality in Fontlab. But it's clear we're not going to get those dreams to be
    happy ones by saying thank you. Hence . . .  .\r\n\r\nThere have been other dreams
    coming to reality in type that have turned somewhat nightmarish, such as OpenType.
    Type technology is not moving along happily, compared to the relatively Arcadian
    days of the 1990s. Only painful criticism can bring about any improvement, as
    far as I can see. However, most users are reluctant to bite the hand that feeds
    them. They are mistaken in this, or so I believe. There has been a lot of sloppy
    thought in type technology these last ten years. Don't let them get away with
    it!\r\n\r\nMany of the most brilliant type software people have long since moved
    into other, more profitable (or even more interesting) areas. \r\n\r\nRecently,
    the editor-in-chief of PC World quit because a story critical of an advertiser
    (in this case Apple) was killed. All technology magazines know that the minute
    they go dishonest, they lose their readers. The situation at PC World reflects
    the reality that ad dollars are getting shorter and shorter, as print publishing
    becomes less and less profitable. \r\n\r\nThere are many things to worry about
    in this world, but being afraid of Fontlab is not one of them. "
  created: '2007-05-07 09:12:47'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Bill, and others, \r\n\r\nthank you for your comments. Be assured that they're
    being read and considered. \r\n\r\nOne small remark: Fontographer is, among others,
    so great because it is very simple. I believe that if Fontographer grew to the
    point of complexity that FontLab Studio has, there would be plenty reasons to
    complain. \r\n\r\nFontographer will come back. Some people will be glad, some
    will not -- that is quite to be expected. But I myself believe it will be a great
    tool. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-09 21:17:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I believe that if Fontographer grew to the point of complexity that FontLab
    Studio has, there would be plenty reasons to complain.\"\r\nAgreed. The two rong
    turns made in summary: \r\n1. trying to line Fog up to a UI that matched Freehand
    for no reason.\r\n2. trying to make a tool that satifies every level of user,
    and every form of output.\r\n\r\n\"Type technology is not moving along happily,
    compared to the relatively Arcadian days of the 1990s. Only painful criticism
    can bring about any improvement...\"\r\nAgreed and complete. I'm delighted, no...overjoyed!
    to see that things are \"moving\" again, and there is not a cliff nearby."
  created: '2007-05-10 14:46:46'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "\"simplicity\" ... \"rewrite\"\r\n\r\nOK, we have established two key thoughts,
    first that a big rewrite is planned, second, that there would not be so many interface
    problems with Fontlab were it not for its complexity, as opposed to Fontographer.
    \r\n\r\nThat is putting it a little too kindly. Fontlab has a very poisonous legacy,
    and that is the idea, long-held in by Yuri, that the best model for the interface
    would be Photoshop.\r\n\r\nI would like to start by saying that Photoshop succeeds
    not because of but in spite of its interface. A worse model for a font program
    could not be found, quite apart from the obvious fact that they are entirely different
    programs doing entirely different things. \r\n\r\nNow let's look at a specific
    example where this kind of thinking has caused a substantial and fundamental problem
    in Fontlab.\r\n\r\nIt is in the simple UNDO function. \r\n\r\nIn Fontlab, following
    Photoshop, every action, including cursor selection, counts as an unbdoable action.
    Undo is a literal concept. Every single thing you do is chronologically undoable.\r\n\r\nThis
    is an entirely wrong thing to do in a sophisticated, multi-layer program where
    _all the layers are used independently_.\r\n\r\nFontographer was the first font
    program that had independent layers, and each layer has its own undo history.\r\n\r\nThus,
    the outline layer, the background layer, and the guideline layer -- each has its
    own undo history.\r\n\r\nThis doesn't happen in Fontlab.\r\n\r\nSo: I have a mask
    [background] element in a glyph window that I want to keep in Fontlab. But I temporarily
    wish to paste a _different_ element into the mask layer for comparison purposes.
    Then I want to edit, and then I want to undo the operation _of the mask layer
    only_ and return to the mask element I had in the first place.\r\n\r\nThis simple
    thing can't be done in Fontlab. In order to undo what I have done in the mask
    layer, I have to do undo what I have done in the outline layer, defeating the
    entire purpose of the work. And that's not counting whether I could ever successfully
    paste that other element into the Mask layer to begin with, a far from easy undertaking.\r\n\r\nFontlab
    compounds the problem in a MM font. I do some edits in layer A. Now I do some
    in layer B. I now realize that I will have to undo some of what I did in layer
    A, without touching what I have done in layer B. It can't be done in Fontlab!
    The only way I can undo what I did in layer A is by first undoing what I have
    just done in layer B.\r\n\r\nThis is very bad behaviour and it reflects the rigid,
    and -- sorry -- unthinking application of Photoshop's interface to Fontlab.\r\n\r\nDoes
    anyone else agree, or am I the only person to take issue with this simple problem?
    \r\n\r\nMy thought is that if there is going to be a \"big rewrite\" then the
    time has come to let go of the Photoshop mentality for good."
  created: '2007-05-14 08:44:07'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Bill, \r\n\r\nregarding undo, you're wrong. FontLab Studio counts undo for
    each glyph separately (though across all layers). For example, in Glyph Window,
    if you do something to \"B\", then go to \"D\" and do something, then go back
    to \"B\" and hit Undo, the last action that you did to *B* will be undone. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-05-14 12:38:38'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Adam, everything I am talking about occurs in one glyph, surely that''s obvious?
    When I speak of "Layer A" or "Layer B" I mean an arbitrary layer in a glyph window
    which could be outline, background, metrics, guidelines, etc. This is a very common
    way of speaking in English and should not be misunderstood. I could have said
    also "layer 1, layer 2" or "layer i, layer ii, layer iii" and meant the same thing.
    "Layer" implies we are in the same glyph window. I think everyone by now realizes
    that what you do in GLYPH A is not reflected in the Undo history of GLYPH B. Would
    you terribly mind reading my message again and telling me if you still think I
    am wrong? '
  created: '2007-05-14 17:16:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I agree Bill, and I have to apply a workaround of copying my latest version
    of one layer to the copyboard, then doing all my undos, then pasting back the
    outline -- if I haven't been distracted or inadvertently copied something else
    over. If you know what I mean.\r\n\r\nWhat might be useful is to be MORE like
    Photoshop, and have a \"History\" function to undos, so that one could go forward
    as well as back. Or perhaps that's already there, and I just don't know the command."
  created: '2007-05-14 19:36:27'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Nick, I assume you meant that about the undo history in jest; I am pretty
    confident that there isn''t one. But I also find pretty near-unbearable that when
    you undo, you aren''t told what action it is you are undoing as well. I think
    history would be a good idea, but I still think each layer (including MM layers)
    should, indeed must, have its own undo. You highlight also the problem that the
    workarounds are so cumbersome that you are apt to forget what you are doing. '
  created: '2007-05-14 23:23:28'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Bill, \r\n\r\nyou wrote \"In Fontlab, following Photoshop, every action,
    including cursor selection, counts as an unbdoable action. Undo is a literal concept.
    Every single thing you do is chronologically undoable.\" \r\n\r\nThis was a simplification.
    In Photoshop, you have the concept of layers while in FontLab Studio you have
    the concept of glyphs *and* layers. A font is a two-dimensional structure while
    an image is only one-dimensional (I mean the dimensions of different structure
    elements). In Photoshop, undo is on a per-document basis, while in FontLab Studio
    it is stored on a per-glyph per document basis, so it is more sophisticated than
    in Photoshop. It is not stored on a per-layer per-glyph per-document basis (which
    is what I believe Fontographer does), which would be even more advanced. But I
    don\u2019t think comparing the FontLab Studio undo to the Photoshop undo is adequate.
    \r\n\r\nRegards, \r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-17 00:20:46'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Adam, once you realize that a glyph is conceptually the same ''space'' as
    a Photoshop object, then you are still talking about a one-dimensional space.
    You aren''t addressing the problem. Each master, and each layer of each master,
    needs its own undo history. Until this is implemented, undo is a pretty useless
    function in Fontlab. Hasn''t David in an earlier thread written something about
    getting these basic functions right before you go on to ''neighbours'' and ''interpolate
    points'' and things like that? It really doesn''t matter just where Fontlab''s
    undo function came from historically. It matters that it is dreadfully, embarrassingly
    inadequate and needs to be at the top of the fix list. '
  created: '2007-05-17 20:15:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Until this is implemented, undo is a pretty useless function in Fontlab.\r\n\r\nThis
    is a ridiculous exaggeration. I use undo all the time, because for me anyway letter
    design is about trying lots of possibilities to see what works best. I agree that
    having the mask layer with an independent undo would be nice, but the fact that
    you now can go from glyph to glyph and each has its own undo is very useful indeed. "
  created: '2007-05-17 20:40:11'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "William, all font programs since the beginning of time have had undo on a
    glyph-by-glyph basis. Nothing else is conceivable, and Fontlab certainly deserves
    no credit for this innovation. I would agree with you that the undo function of
    Fontlab was adequate -- barely -- if _all_ of your work occurred exclusively in
    the outline layer -- as apparently it does. But if you need to do substantial
    work with the mask and guide layers, and if you need to work with multiple master
    fonts, it is simply not adequate. In Fontographer, everything you do in the mask
    or guideline layer is undoable on a layer-by-layer basis. \r\n\r\nDo you work
    with multiple weights/masters/instances? Do you work with the mask layer? \r\n\r\nIs
    anyone who works with these additional layers happy with the way Fontlab does
    undo? If so, why? I would really like to know. For myself, I cannot imagine any
    right of doing undo other than the Fontographer way. \r\n\r\nLet me give you an
    example where this is useful. You are working on a character in the outline window.
    Let's suppose it is a bold. In the mask layer you have an earlier bold version
    for reference. Now you want to see what happens when you put the Roman version
    of the character in the mask, or an earlier version of the bold, or an instance
    of the character from a different font that you intuit might be helpful to look
    at. So you do that, and you make some more edits. Now you want to have the _mask_
    layer revert to the first of the characters it held. In Fog, this would be one
    simple undo operation, or two. In Fontlab, it means undoing all the edits you
    have made in the _outline_ window. \r\n\r\nDo you see anything rational in this?
    Is there any reason why, in order to undo what you have done in the mask layer,
    you should first have to undo everything you have done in the outline window?
    Does this seem like a professional modus operandi to you? "
  created: '2007-05-17 23:20:32'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: I have to say that "layers" concept is not really developed in current versions
    of FL. It is more or less artificially here on UI, but not in data structures
    of the file. In the next version of the tool layers will be suppored at full power.
  created: '2007-05-18 11:17:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Fontlab certainly deserves no credit for this innovation\r\n\r\nBill, I
    am not a mind reader. I was responding to what you actually wrote, not what was
    in your head. What you wrote is that \"undo is a pretty useless function in FontLab\".
    That is ridiculous because without undo, the program's usability would be crippled.
    What you meant to say, I see now, is that FontLab has problems in this area, and
    no useful innovations compared to other Font development programs. That is fair
    enough, but it is not what you wrote.  \r\n\r\nAnd yes, I do use the mask layer
    continually, and giving layers separate 'undo' controls would be very good, as
    you suggest. And Yuri, if I understand him, will implement that in the next version
    of FontLab, which is great. "
  created: '2007-05-18 14:19:16'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Good, so that's settled, or is it? Re-reading this section, I am not so confident,
    William. Yuri says layers will be supported at full power. Is that the same thing
    as saying that he will implement undo properly?\r\n\r\nWhile we're at it, here's
    another interface insanity: you're reviewing an MM. You're in the Axis panel,
    using the slider quickly to slide from extreme to extreme, checking that the interpolation
    and perhaps the extrapolation is working OK. \r\n\r\nNow you want to go to the
    next character, and quickly do the same thing; and then you want to go to the
    next, and the next and the next.\r\n\r\nYou would expect, wouldn't you, that all
    you had to do was press one of the various 'next character/previous character'
    keys, and continue happily on your way?\r\n\r\nYou would be sadly mistaken.\r\n\r\nThose
    keys don't work while focus is on the Axis Panel.\r\n\r\nYou actually have to
    take up your mouse, move to the glyph window, and click, before you can get your
    next char key to work.\r\n\r\nFor some reason, the world stops when focus is on
    the axis panel, and I think there are similar problems with some of the other
    panels. Could anyone document these? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-28 21:25:33'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: Hi does anyone know what are tiny double arrows doing superposed on the curser
    arrow in glyph window. They change from vertical to horizontal and obscure the
    points. I need to switch them off thanks. FL 5.2 Win installed on Win8.1 as a
    guest in Virtual Box on a Mac host.. These superfluous arrows behave like the
    ones that appear to move guidelines. On other occasions I get an outline cursor
    and dragging behind it and just visible a black arrow cursor. Strange.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/photo_6721.JPG]
  created: '2014-06-16 03:36:01'
date: '2007-03-31 11:18:08'
title: Fontlab 5 interface peeves

---
