---
author:
  name: Wendell
body: "I just recently learned of Microsoft's Cambria+Math font. Having been long
  dissatisfied with the LaTeX standard packages and with the continued delay of STIX,
  I had high hopes for Cambria. That didn't last long. I am struck by the sloppiness
  of the design. For example, the lower-case roman alphabet looks like a mixture of
  two or three different typefaces. Strangely, the fonts I have (from the MS Office
  beta download) show differences from the sample PDF downloadable from the designer's
  web site.\r\n\r\nWhat really bothers me, though, is that while Cambria+Math is clealy
  intended for producing documents with math in them, it does not take into account
  two problems that most fonts have when used to typeset math.\r\n\r\nFirst, unlike
  writing in a natural language, glyphs can be adjoined arbitrarily. So the font must
  be designed such that no glyph intrudes into the columnar space of its neighbor
  or leaves gaping holes. A quick test is to diplay \"QJqygf\" in roman and italics.
  Also try the lower-case with sub/super-scripts.\r\n\r\nSecond, again unlike natural
  language, one often cannot identify a glyph just from context. So every glyph must
  be immediately and uniquely recognizable. Common problems are with the roman-lc
  vs. italic-lc \"z\" and with the Greek-ltalic-lc \"nu\" vs. the italic-lc \"v\".\r\n\r\nI'd
  expect that most typographers are humanities types with little exposure to scientific
  literature. But I assure you that these issues do on occasion cause great vexation
  with typesetters and readers. For reference, fonts that I think handle these issues
  well are Caledonia, Palatino, and the Century family. Utopia is mostly OK.\r\n\r\nAmong
  type designers, is there ever discussion of the points I have raised?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Strangely, the fonts I have (from the MS Office beta download) show differences
    from the sample PDF downloadable from the designer\u2019s web site.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    try the release version? Note the font was designed to be used with Office 2007's
    Math engine. With betas and outside of Office your mileage will vary.\r\n\r\n>Among
    type designers, is there ever discussion of the points I have raised?\r\n\r\nI
    don't think so - individual type designers may work things out for themselves
    but I've not seen any recent public discussion. \r\n\r\n>But I assure you \r\n\r\nSome
    references would be helfpul.\r\n\r\n>For reference, fonts that I think handle
    these issues well are Caledonia, Palatino, and the Century family. \r\n\r\nSounds
    like co-incidence rather than by design?\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-01 19:16:50'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "www.typoma.com has <a href=\" http://www.typoma.com/publ/20041002-atypi.pdf\">this
    pdf</a> from a presentation at ATypl 2004.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-01 19:51:50'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: I don't know if it can be of any help but you may like to check this <a href="ftp://ftp.ctex.org/CTAN/info/Free_Math_Font_Survey/en/survey.pdf">.pdf</a>
    out as well.
  created: '2007-04-01 20:01:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Some comments from Murray Sargent...\r\n\r\nFrom: Murray Sargent \r\nSent:
    Sunday, April 01, 2007 3:33 PM\r\nTo: Simon Daniels\r\nCc: Geraldine Wade\r\nSubject:
    RE: Criticism of Cambria Math\r\n\r\nA math display program uses different italic
    characters (the math alphabetic in the range U+1D400..U+1D7FF) from the ones Wendell
    refers to and the Cambria-Math math italic lc \u201Cnu\u201D is quite distinct
    from the math italic lc v. Furthermore, math spacing in Word 2007 is controlled
    according to glyph ink, italic correction, and cut-ins, so overlaps don\u2019t
    occur and a significant amount of spacing tweaks that TeX delegates to the user
    are performed automatically. More about math spacing is given in my <A HREF=\"http://blogs.msdn.com/murrays/archive/2006/09/13/752206.aspx\">post</A>.
    The only possibly valid criticism given in Wendell\u2019s comment on Cambria Math
    is about the look of the typeface. This look was chosen to allow significantly
    better on-screen display than other typefaces such as Times Roman. Initially I
    didn\u2019t like the typeface as much as Times Roman, but I like it now and the
    font is pure magic when it comes to math typesetting thanks to its myriad glyph
    variants. To see Cambria Math in action, check out the <A HREF=\"http://www.unicode.org/notes/tn28/UTN28-PlainTextMath-v2.pdf\">math
    linear format paper</A>.\r\n\r\nThanks\r\nMurray\r\n "
  created: '2007-04-01 23:51:54'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Mmm. I'm glad to see that the Century family makes Wendell's list of faces
    meeting the criteria for good math work. That's basically why I picked Century
    Catalogue to work on.\r\n\r\nI happen to be very interested in math faces, but
    it's not clear that my work situation is going to allow me much, if any, time
    to actively develop them. We'll know in a couple of months.\r\n\r\nIn any case,
    I also found the \"linear\" paper to be somewhat disappointing. One of the major
    factors is the lack of optical scaling - I think a case can be made that a properly
    scaled family is far more important for math than in just about any other context,
    because of the use of different sizes in close proximity.\r\n\r\nBut that's not
    the only problem. The stretchable curly braces are very blah (see <a href=\"http://tex.loria.fr/typographie/inria-1972.ps.gz\">this
    paper</a> for a more sophisticated approach). The large parens on page 5 are not
    quite large enough. It's not <em>bad,</em> but it's not a huge improvement over
    TeX quality.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-02 05:31:20'
- author:
    name: Wendell
  body: "John: Thanks, that link is great. Johannes K\xFCster identifies a lot of
    points that need consideration.\r\n\r\nSimon: On the chance that you were not
    just being peevish, what sort of references would you find helpful to support
    my assertion that poorly spaced and/or indistinguishable glyphs cause aggravation?\r\n\r\nMurray
    Sargent makes a good point. If Cambria+Math is designed to look right only when
    used in Office 2007, users of other systems like OpenOffice, LaTeX, QuarkXpress,
    and 3B2 need to be aware of it.\r\n\r\nThere is another issue with math that doesn't
    get much if any discussion, and that is what font to use for the text body. If
    you look at handbooks on typesetting math, it appears that the issue of body text
    is too trivial a problem to require mention. But consider this, the typical reading
    rate for professional-level math is about one or two hours per page. Reading twenty
    pages at a sitting would be unusual. Most likely would be less than six. Surely
    this case requires some special attention to typeface choice.\r\n\r\nWhen reading,
    the mathematician goes back and forth between printed page and scratchpad. The
    type should aid quickly finding one's place again but not become tedious with
    prolonged staring and rereading.\r\n\r\nMy impression has been that a large x-height
    is bad for math text, as it is meant to cause the eye to slide quickly down a
    line of text and gives too little distinction to individual words. The opposite,
    like Perpetua, is not comfortable in prolonged staring. Striking forms, as when
    the type designer decides to personalize the \"W\" or \"Q\" become very irritating.\r\n\r\nAnother
    major consideration is the use of italics. It is the standard practice in math
    to set the most important paragraphs, the \"Theorems\", in all italics. So you
    need an italic face that is not only good for setting whole paragraphs, but will
    support even more intensive scrutiny than the roman. I think very few faces have
    such a suitable italic."
  created: '2007-04-02 19:25:38'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I was interested in references to fonts that took this into account. To me
    I suspect you can't do good math with a text font, without as is the case with
    Cambria, having specific Math forms.  \r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Wendell
    body: "<strong>Simon:</strong><em>I was interested in references to fonts that
      took this into account. To me I suspect you can\u2019t do good math with a text
      font...</em>\r\n\r\nI think you are absolutely right. The requirements for a
      math and a text font are diametrically opposed; text letters need to blend and
      equation letters need to stand distinctly.\r\n\r\nNevertheless, the lack of
      dedicated math fonts forces us to make do. So what do we have to take into consideration
      to make the best compromise? Thinking just about italic lower-case:\r\n<li>Every
      italic letter must be clearly identifiable as such.</li>\r\n<li>No letter should
      cross into its neighbor's space.</li>\r\n<li>To distinguish from 'nu', <em>v</em>
      must be rounded and <em>w</em> must match <em>v</em>.\r\n<li>To avoid mistaken
      identity, <em>v</em> can't look like 'nu' normally does. It also must be distinct
      from roman-bold-lc <strong>v</strong>.\r\n<li>The tail of <em>g</em> should
      be open and <em>y</em> should match.</li>\r\n<li>Since it is often used as small
      super/subscript, <em>k</em> should be open.</li>\r\n<li>To leave room for super/subscripts
      on both sides, flourishes should be kept minimal.</li>\r\n\r\n\r\nTo illustrate
      how hard it is to meet all these conditions, here is a sample of some common
      fonts.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/latins_4514.jpg]"
    created: '2007-04-06 02:23:51'
  created: '2007-04-02 19:38:39'
- author:
    name: ultrasparky
    picture: 109750
  body: Wendell, by any chance do you know of anyone doing a lot of math with 3B2
    (or Arbortext Advanced Print Publisher, as it's now known)? I'm working on a text-and-math
    typeface and I'd like to talk to a few users about how math is set up and handled
    on that system.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Wendell
    body: "<strong>Dan:</strong> <em>by any chance do you know of anyone doing a lot
      of math with 3B2?</em>\r\n\r\nSorry, I've had little contact with 3B2. I'd suggest
      you start by posting very specific questions on comp.text.tex. There is a lot
      of cross-platform expertise there.\r\n\r\nIf you have questions about other
      systems, I could probably offer some pertinent comment. A while back, I did
      an evaluation of all the math editing systems I could get my hands on. That
      includes Amaya, FrameMaker 7.1, Infty Editor, LyX, MathMagic, MathType, MicroIMP,
      OpenOffice, PCTeX, Publicon, SciViewer, SciWord, TeXaide, Texmacs, Texmaker,
      TeXnicCenter, VisualTeX, WinEdt, and WordPerfect. I haven't tried Miles33 or
      InDesign."
    created: '2007-04-06 00:10:50'
  created: '2007-04-02 22:30:27'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "On a general note, we are at first iteration of our math layout system. Of
    course, there are thing to improve, in both layout engine and Cambria Math font.
    We learned a lot about math and math fonts at the same time as we moved forward.
    We are creating platform that provide both good layout and will enable font designers
    to create great fonts. We see that TeX achieves too many things through hardcoded
    values and tweaks, frequently tied to Computer Modern family, which font designers
    and typesetters should take into account. Our (very ambitious) goal for first
    version was to have math layout quality to be same or better than TeX automatically,
    without user need for manual tweaking.\r\n\r\n<cite> That didn\u2019t last long.
    I am struck by the sloppiness of the design. For example, the lower-case roman
    alphabet looks like a mixture of two or three different typefaces. </cite>\r\n\r\nI
    guess this is a matter of taste. Like with Murray, it took some time for me to
    get used to Cambria both as a body and math font. It is quite different from what
    I usually used before. Now, I like it and even use Cambria Bold with PDFs on my
    Sony reader. \r\n\r\n<cite>First, unlike writing in a natural language, glyphs
    can be adjoined arbitrarily. </cite>\r\n<cite> So the font must be designed such
    that no glyph intrudes into the columnar space of its neighbor or leaves gaping
    holes.A quick test is to diplay \u201CQJqygf\u201D in roman and italics. Also
    try the lower-case with sub/super-scripts.</cite>\r\n\r\nConditions for font design
    you set are very hard to meet at the same time, especially for slanted math font.
    You admit that even existing LaTeX fonts do not meet your requirements, after
    so many years passed.\r\n\r\nI agree spacing does not look very good, but this
    letter combination is not common. On the other hand, letters should not be set
    as tight as in normal text. They are separate entities in math, not single word.
    We do not do normal kerning in math and rely on font to have natural spacing to
    look better. There are other cases when we have to avoid clashes between glyphs,
    frequently from different fonts/sizes. This can\u2019t be done by font itself,
    and we concentrated on these issues.\r\n\r\n<cite>Second, again unlike natural
    language, one often cannot identify a glyph just from context. So every glyph
    must be immediately and uniquely recognizable. Common problems are with the roman-lc
    vs. italic-lc \u201Cz\u201D and with the Greek-ltalic-lc \u201Cnu\u201D vs. the
    italic-lc \u201Cv\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nFrankly, I do not see a big problem with
    'z', who would mix it in a formula anyway. And I do not see a problem with nu/v
    either. We spent time ensuring there is no confusion between these particular
    pair of letters.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: sgh
      picture: 111405
    body: "Sergey,\r\n\r\nIn general, I like the letterforms in both Cambria (used
      as text) and Cambria Math.  However, I am intrigued by the changes made to Cambria
      italic when creating Cambria Math italic.  The biggest change is the serifs,
      but other changes have occurred, too.  The x, for instance, was changed a lot.
      \ How did you decide what changes to make?\r\n\r\nI find the v and nu to be
      quite distinct, but actually reversed: I expect a nu to have a backward facing
      curl on the top right, not the v.  Since in most fonts, neither the nu nor the
      v have a curl serif on the right, I'm guessing my expectation comes from the
      way that most people handwrite the nu.\r\n"
    created: '2007-04-04 09:53:25'
  - author:
      name: Wendell
    body: "<strong>Sergey:</strong><em> Frankly, I do not see a big problem with \u2018z\u2019,
      who would mix it in a formula anyway. And I do not see a problem with nu/v either.
      </em>\r\n\r\nThis is a really odd comment, as <em>xyz</em> are just about the
      most-used italic letters in mathematics. The <em>z</em> is used constantly in
      complex analysis and in any applied field dealing with 3D space. As for 'nu'/<em>v</em>,
      physics and engineering can often throw them together.\r\n\r\nAs for the problems
      they cause, just this week I typed a document with a lot of <em>z</em>'s and
      didn't catch the missed italics until I printed it out, since I couldn't easily
      distinguish z and <em>z</em> on-screen. And I still remember some time ago reading
      a physics text, not typeset by the author, that used same-looking 'nu' and <em>v</em>
      in the same equation!\r\n\r\nDon't discount problems the <em>Q</em> either.
      It is used with great frequency in logic and geometry, often with subscripts."
    created: '2007-04-06 00:27:00'
  created: '2007-04-03 18:51:50'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> We see that TeX achieves too many things through hardcoded values and tweaks,
    frequently tied to Computer Modern family, which font designers and typesetters
    should take into account\r\n\r\nI agree that TeX is a bear, but you really don't
    need to depend on the CM font family. The Lucida math set mirrors the characters
    from CM, with the benefits of the more professional design. As for non-Math fonts,
    they are easy to load into TeX, if you have the afm files to provide the metrics.\r\n\r\nI
    think the reason most TeX setting looks like TeX setting is that the schools and
    scholars that use it won't pay for decent fonts. That doesn't seem to be a problem
    for you. (Of course, that doesn't eliminate the problem of TeX requiring so much
    hand holding.)"
  created: '2007-04-03 18:57:49'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "Raph wrote:\r\n<cite>But that\u2019s not the only problem. The stretchable
    curly braces are very blah (see this paper for a more sophisticated approach).
    </cite>\r\n\r\nCan you do that for every font and glyph? We are working in OpenType
    font environment, where even multiple masters fonts are not in the standard anymore.
    I am not even talking about METAFONT. \r\n\r\nOf course, if you can do arbitrary
    sizes for glyphs as good as pre-designed ones you can do better layout. You can
    do even better if you draw every parents for a given formula. Even if we are not
    completely flexible, we provide open format where, unlike in TeX, font designer
    can provide as many growing forms as he think are necessary for their design.
    Cambria Math has 8 forms for parents, for example.\r\n\r\n<cite>The large parens
    on page 5 are not quite large enough. It\u2019s not bad, but it\u2019s not a huge
    improvement over TeX quality.</cite>\r\n\r\nI thin this is a standard use of TeX's
    95% rule (if I remember this number correctly) for choosing size for parents.
    This is just an accident with existing forms that they have parents that cover
    full size of first expression and cover only part of higher one. You cannot cover
    all possible formulas. You design you font to cover most commonly used.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    \ One of the major factors is the lack of optical scaling - I think a case can
    be made that a properly scaled family is far more important for math than in just
    about any other context, because of the use of different sizes in close proximity.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    am not sure what you mean, at least in relation to math typography. We offer mechanism
    for optical sizes for smaller sizes in math, e.g. in superscript, although they
    are all reside in a single font. There are pros of having single font, e.g. set
    of constants is not spread between typefaces or flexibility in having only some
    variants for particular size. But nothing in font format prevents other layout
    engines (or future versions of MS's engine) to use separate fonts for each of
    sizes.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-03 19:23:04'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "<cite>Murray Sargent makes a good point. If Cambria+Math is designed to look
    right only when used in Office 2007, users of other systems like OpenOffice, LaTeX,
    QuarkXpress, and 3B2 need to be aware of it. </cite>\r\n\r\nCambria Math is intended
    to look good in Windows environment and on paper. But this is said only about
    glyph design and hinting, so there is nothing specific to math layout. This is
    just particual glyph rendering technology, not math layout engine. You can look
    at Murray's paper, to see how formulas formatted by Word look in Acrobat Reader.\r\n\r\nMath
    layout tables format is open and other apps can work on support for it. Office2007
    was just the first app implemented it. I hope you do not count this as a Microsoft
    fault. We made format open and generic enough to be used in different layout algorithms.
    XeTeX, as I understand, is looking into MATH table support in TeX. \r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey"
  created: '2007-04-03 19:39:08'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Perhaps you might like up-and-coming Maxwell by Tiro Typeworks.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.tiro.com/fonts.html\r\n\r\nhttp://www.tiro.com/Maxwell/Maxwell_alpha1.04_spec.pdf\r\n\r\nMikey
    :-)"
  created: '2007-04-03 21:14:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Perhaps you might like up-and-coming Maxwell by Tiro Typeworks.\r\n\r\nYou
    are aware that Ross Mills has done most of the work on Cambria Math?"
  created: '2007-04-03 21:38:02'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "I am aware. If he is concerned with looks- Maxwell may be be better choice-
    it certainly looks more readable. Perhaps the kinks/beefs he has with Cambria
    will be resolved with Maxwell.\r\n\r\nOr better yet... send an email outlining
    your concerns to Mr. Ross.\r\n\r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
  created: '2007-04-04 01:27:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "In think what Maxwell needs is a long line of deep pocketed customers (or
    maybe just one with very deep pockets) ready to licnese the font. That would give
    Ross the incentive to get moving on it. ;-)\r\n\r\nSomewhat unrelated... http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/03/30/AR2007033001957.html "
  created: '2007-04-04 02:29:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The appropriate style for a maths type is an interesting topic, and because
    of the complexity of the design and production of maths fonts there will probably
    only ever be a small number of options. Ross started designing Maxwell while he
    was still working on the math table for the Cambria Math font, in part as a relief
    from the technical nitty-gritty of that work.\r\n\r\nI have my own ideas about
    possible designs for maths types. We've inherited a largely 19th century set of
    typographic conventions for maths and sciences, which have been extended in subsequent
    decades but not significantly altered. Yet there is a body of mathematical publishing
    that predates these conventions, and while some of the notation of that period
    is now obsolete, the style of types involved are a possible source for new directions
    in the design of digital maths types. In the days of metal type, there was a natural
    conservatism in the typesetting of mathematics, in which fonts of type might be
    extended by the cutting and casting of new symbols, but in which the idea of introducing
    whole new styles of maths types would be prohibitively expensive. I see no reason
    why we can't be a bit more adventurous in the design of new types for digital
    maths settings. Johannes K\xFCster is basing his maths font on Adobe Minion, which
    may be the most refreshing thing anyone has ever done with Minion. :)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Wendell
    body: "<strong>John:</strong><em> Ross started designing Maxwell while he was
      still working on the math table for the Cambria Math font.</em>\r\n\r\nI took
      a look at <em>Maxwell</em> and it is quite attractive, but I wonder what your
      target market would be. Scientific publishing is extremely conservative. Times
      Roman has been almost the sole font of choice since the 1960's and with STIX
      coming out, that will probably continue indefinitely. I could imagine <em>Maxwell</em>
      being used in semi-literary writing, such as a <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Man-Who-Changed-Everything-Maxwell/dp/0470861711/ref=sr_1_1/104-3734276-9775113?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1175816776&sr=1-1\">biography
      of Maxwell</a>, but not a technical publication. Have you wandered over to a
      bunch of physicists and asked?\r\n\r\n<em>I see no reason why we can\u2019t
      be a bit more adventurous in the design of new types for digital maths settings.</em>\r\n\r\nI've
      just finished re-reading Gill's <em>An Essay on Typography</em> in which he
      holds that the fewer faces on the page, the better. He certainly hasn't been
      the only designer to thing so. On the math side, notable authors like Paul Halmos
      have insisted that an essential part of good math writing is resisting the urge
      to overpopulate your notational menagerie.\r\n\r\nOver the past twenty years,
      some typographically-naive mathematicians have used the power of LaTeX to ignore
      this advice with wild abandon. Maybe things would get better if typographers
      used their artistic influence to try to rein them in, not encourage them. :-)"
    created: '2007-04-06 01:11:12'
  created: '2007-04-04 03:26:39'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "sergeym: Thanks for responding. I do appreciate that you're trying to make
    math typesetting as good as possible, and that you're studying the TeX precedents.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    the parens in the binomial construct, I think this picture makes it clear. I used
    this TeX:\r\n\r\n<code>\r\n(a+b)^n = \\sum_{k=0}^n \\binom n k a^k b^{n-k}\r\n</code>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/math_3984.png]\r\n\r\nI
    used Apple Preview to make the screencap. Results will vary with other viewers.
    Overall, the Cambria is bolder than the CMR, which fixes one of the biggest problems
    with the latter; TeX often looks spindly and insubstantial, especially on the
    screen.\r\n\r\nObviously you are using variant forms of the parens, and they look
    good. But, to my eyes, the curly braces aren't anywhere nearly curly enough, and
    seem to be made largely from straight sections. This is an aesthetic choice, of
    course, and perhaps the mostly-straight approach is more consistent with the design
    of Cambria.\r\n\r\nI took another close look at the optical scaling of the superscripts
    in that example and, if there is optical scaling, it is too subtle for me to see
    by eye. In CMR, of course, the scaling is immediately clear to the eye, largely
    because of the width changes. If these are, in fact, separate super/sub-script
    glyphs as opposed to mathematically scaled instances of the primary size, then
    I think quite a bit more should have been done to make them harmonize better optically.\r\n\r\nMaxwell
    looks great, and if the math capabilities of the new Word open up a market for
    high quality math typefaces, that will be a service to the word. The subscripts
    there <em>are</em> optically scaled, and very nicely (compare the \"a\" under
    the summa to the one in the body). The greeks, especially, have a tremendous amount
    of life. And I'm sure Hrant will love the \"g\".\r\n\r\nOf the fonts shown by
    K\xFCster, the Minion is to my eyes by far the best. I can see why he's choosing
    that as the basis for his work. In my thesis work, I'm spending a lot of time
    with a <a href=\"http://math.dartmouth.edu/~euler/pages/E065.html\">book by Euler</a>
    from a quarter-millennium ago, and am very much enjoying the typography. It's
    set in the standard Garalde typical of the era, which looks fine to me. I think
    this whole thing about moderns is convention rather than serving a true functional
    purpose. I'm also a big fan of the historical math books I have set in Monotype
    Old Style No. 2, and, again, that's one of the reasons I chose (the similar) Century
    Catalogue for revival.\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Wendell
    body: "<strong>Raph:</strong><em> I\u2019m also a big fan of the historical math
      books I have set in Monotype Old Style No. 2, and, again, that\u2019s one of
      the reasons I chose (the similar) Century Catalogue for revival.</em>\r\n\r\nI,
      also, search out older math books for their typography. Tracy, in his <em>Letters
      of Credit: A View of Type Design</em> recommends keeping examples of books published
      from 1930 to 1960 because that was the high-point of typographic quality, the
      furthest advance of technical ability before the decline caused by automation.\r\n\r\nFor
      math books, I would modify the recommendation to the frame of about 1920-1939.
      In the 20s and 30s, it is clear that the production of a math book was considered
      Art. But with WWII, economy became the prime consideration. Even after things
      got better in the 1950s, while math books show much more skill than they would
      in the 1970s, it is clear that often the primary objective was to get as much
      as possible on a page.\r\n\r\nFor insight into attitudes of the day, take a
      look at Chaundy's <em>The Printing of Mathematics</em>. This was the styleguide
      for Oxford University Press, which along with Cambridge produced some of the
      best printing. What is interesting is the constant attention they give to economy
      of work and space, things that don't seem to have been as important in prewar
      days.\r\n\r\nFollowing the output from 1920 to 1939, there is a significant
      improvement in technical ability. So if you are hunting for good exemplars,
      I would advise concentrating on the 1930s. I rarely find anything from before
      1910 that impresses me. If you have suggestions I'd like to hear them.\r\n"
    created: '2007-04-06 01:55:36'
  created: '2007-04-04 05:26:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Raph, there are indeed two optical sizes for most common superscripted characters
    in Cambria Math. Jelle Bosma drew a set of superior glyphs as part of the initial
    Cambria development; I scaled these up to the size required for the math layout
    handler, and then interpolated another size, which Ross then adjusted (the final
    relationships are not linear, as you can see in the illustration below).\r\n\r\nI
    think this is one of the areas in which designing a font for intensive on screen
    use led to different decisions than would be the case if one were making a font
    for use predominantly in print. For a print typeface, I might be inclined to make
    a greater weight change in the optical sizes, but on the coarse pixel grid this
    can easily lead to the smaller sizes looking too dark relative to the base forms.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CambMathOpt_6527.gif]"
  created: '2007-04-04 06:25:29'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "John: the images you posted look fine. However, in the \"linear\" pdf posted
    above, I don't think these optical variants are being used. That could well be
    a problem specific to the preparation of that document, and not a problem with
    the math setting of Word 2007. If that is the case, then I withdraw much of my
    criticism above.\r\n\r\nThe same could be true of the curly braces - the ones
    I see in the <a href=\"http://www.tiro.nu/Articles/Cambria/Cambria_Math_Basic_Spec_V1.pdf\">Cambria
    Math basic specimen</a> are much closer to what I would hope for than the version
    in the pdf."
  created: '2007-04-04 07:19:17'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Off topic: \r\n\r\nJohn>  Does Tiro have any current offerings for end user
    licensing? \r\n\r\nManitcore, 1530 Garamond, and Aeneas are not sold through any
    channels that I could find. Is there opentype development in the works? (tiro.com
    doesn't have anything about these fonts either.) Most of the type on the site
    is in development or are commissioned projects... very exciting stuff though!!!
    \r\n\r\n\r\nMike Diaz :-)"
  created: '2007-04-04 09:31:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Does Tiro have any current offerings for end user licensing?</em>\r\n\r\nCurrently
    we don't have any retail licensing, only some fonts that are freely available
    under license from our customers (e.g. the SBL scholarly fonts, the Inuktitut
    fonts for the government in Nunavut). Our old retail fonts were withdrawn from
    circulation a few years ago, partly out of our own dissatisfaction with them and
    partly because we did not have time to make OT versions and didn't want to offer
    ongoing support for Type 1.\r\n\r\nSo for the time being we're just working on
    custom fonts, and this keeps us pretty busy."
  created: '2007-04-04 21:40:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I am intrigued by the changes made to Cambria italic when creating Cambria
    Math italic. The biggest change is the serifs, but other changes have occurred,
    too. The x, for instance, was changed a lot. How did you decide what changes to
    make?</em>\r\n\r\nJelle Bosma, the original designer of Cambria, designed the
    math italic glyphs. I believe his intention was to more closely follow the style
    of italic letters used in previous mathematical typesetting, while the basic Cambria
    text italic forms derive from Jelle's approach to screen font design."
  created: '2007-04-04 21:43:00'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "<cite>This is a really odd comment</cite>\r\n\r\nI haven't said z is not
    used. I said that you use only one of them inside the formula. \r\n\r\nI do not
    see a problem distinguishing these letters. I just looked at them again and clearly
    see which one is which, they are very different at any size on my screen.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-06 03:29:21'
- author:
    name: sgh
    picture: 111405
  body: "I agree with Sergey that upright z and italic z are never a problem, because
    they are never used together (unlike italic z and upright bold z, which do appear
    together).  Similarly, a rounded v is a good solution to the conflict with nu,
    even though a rounded v is almost indistinguishable from an upsilon.  However,
    no one uses v and upsilon together, whereas v and nu frequently appear together.
    \ Just as with text, the design for distinguishability should follow from the
    usage.\r\n\r\nWendell: <cite>The tail of g should be open and y should match.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    have frequently seen this said, but I've never heard a justification for it.  It
    seems the y in Cambria Math works quite well.\r\n\r\nWendell: <cite>Over the past
    twenty years, some typographically-naive mathematicians have used the power of
    LaTeX to ignore this advice with wild abandon.</cite>\r\n\r\nCould you give some
    examples of what you are referring to?  I'm not sure if you mean that there are
    too many different typefaces used in mathematics, or if there are too many mathematical
    symbols.  Given how overloaded most math symbols are already, it's hard to imagine
    how to avoid the latter when expressing new concepts.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-06 07:31:26'
- author:
    name: ultrasparky
    picture: 109750
  body: "<em>A while back, I did an evaluation of all the math editing systems I could
    get my hands on. That includes Amaya, FrameMaker 7.1, Infty Editor, LyX, MathMagic,
    MathType, MicroIMP, OpenOffice, PCTeX, Publicon, SciViewer, SciWord, TeXaide,
    Texmacs, Texmaker, TeXnicCenter, VisualTeX, WinEdt, and WordPerfect. I haven\u2019t
    tried Miles33 or InDesign.</em>\r\n\r\nWendell, thanks for this list. You mention
    a few that I haven't heard of that might be worth taking into account. And if
    you are curious about Miles 33, I've been setting math in it for ages and can
    answer any questions you might have."
  children:
  - author:
      name: sgh
      picture: 111405
    body: "<a href=\"http://www.expswp.com\">EXP</a> is another WYSIWYG math editing
      program that has been around for a while.\r\n"
    created: '2007-04-06 18:14:29'
  created: '2007-04-06 08:39:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Wendell, \r\n\r\nMaxwell is very much Ross' personal project, and not something
    I'm involved with. I don't know if he has a 'market' in mind, but one of his reasons
    for starting the design was to make something closer than Cambria to the style
    of types (e.g. Computer Modern) that TeX users are familiar with.\r\n\r\nWhen
    I spoke about being more adventurous in the design of new maths fonts, I wasn't
    suggesting mixing multiple styles or extending notation, only that there could
    be a wider range of options for the basic style of type used. The style would
    be applied consistently across the typeface, so there certainly would not be a
    mix of styles on the page."
  created: '2007-04-06 18:25:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'm presently developing a large Modern typeface family, and advanced math
    capability would certainly be appropriate, as this genre of type traditionally
    evolved in tandem with scientific and mathematic progress, hence the meaningful
    distinctions it makes in the above chart. (Computer Modern is in this genre.)\r\n\r\nBut
    like Cyrillic and Greek development, the market is sketchy for an independent
    foundry, and a considerable amount of research is required to figure out which
    characters are required in a font, and how they are deployed by applications.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    there's an opportunity here for a math-minded intern...."
  created: '2007-04-06 19:21:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I\u2019d expect that most typographers are humanities types with little
    exposure to scientific literature.</em>\r\n\r\nNot, however, the typographers
    who made sure the standard keyboard has an ASCII tilde, circumflex, and greater
    than/less than symbols, but omitted curly quotes and f-ligatures :-)"
  created: '2007-04-07 04:44:39'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>I\u2019m presently developing a large Modern typeface family, and advanced
    math capability</em>\r\n\r\nNick, can we take a peek at this? Or is it too soon?"
  created: '2007-04-27 16:17:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "For those that are interested there will be a math font workshop during TypeCon
    week. Due to scheduling issues it will be on Tuesday July 31st (ie. the day before
    the other workshops start) at Microsoft (main campus in Redmond) transfers from
    the conference hotel will be arranged (ie. bus tickets). \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2007-04-27 17:39:18'
- author:
    name: rjctypophile
  body: "Does anyone have a link to the \"open\" math layout tables format Sergeym
    references?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-11 06:09:12'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Sergey is able to send this out on request. Contact him via SergeyM @ you
    know where.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2007-09-11 06:21:10'
- author:
    name: vga
  body: "I know this an old thread, but XeTeX did add Unicode Math support, although
    it's still considered experimental. I don't have Office 2007 for a side-by-side
    comparison, but using the Cambria Math landed on my laptop by Expression Suite
    (should be the same font), I get better looking results from XeTeX that what was
    posted above. Comparison at 12pt (magnified in evince) of Latin Modern (a Unicodified
    CM) and Cambria Math; text font is unchanged. Given the way XeTeX works, you cannot
    currently mix Unicode with non-Unicode math in the same document without running
    in trouble.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot-uni_5573.pdf.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot-uni_4341.pdf-1.png]\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-10 02:23:54'
- author:
    name: qu1j0t3
    picture: 109648
  body: "@raph I would kill to see a page scan from the Euler book.\r\n\r\n@Wendell
    another reference point in math typesetting is Knuth's own <em>The Art of Computer
    Programming</em> that was first set in a version of \"Modern\" (ATF?)  Somewhere,
    Knuth tells us that the tribulations of typesetting early editions drove him to
    build what became TeX and METAFONT. As a result we have at least three iterations
    of the work to compare: The traditional version (which I think is beautiful);
    the first digital edition of some volumes which was built with a markedly more
    primitive, early version of the software and fonts; and the \"modern\" TeX and
    CMR that was introduced in the <em>TeXbook</em> and <em>METAFONTbook</em> (themselves
    showcases of math).\r\n\r\nThis is of interest, in my opinion, because Knuth,
    as a working mathematician, values excellence in mathematical setting and makes
    high demands of it; and in developing his digital typography tools he paid close
    attention to its conventions and details. Optical scaling in CMR was one example,
    decades in advance of mainstream (PostScript) digital type...\r\n\r\nAnd wasn't
    his <em>Concrete Mathematics</em> set in a different math family entirely? AMSfonts?
    I forget. (It's 1am)"
  created: '2009-09-10 05:58:51'
- author:
    name: qu1j0t3
    picture: 109648
  body: Looks like the old/new CMR transition was 1992. http://www-cs-staff.stanford.edu/~uno/cm.html
  created: '2009-09-10 15:06:22'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "@qu1jot3 (Toby):\r\n\r\nFortunately, there are very high quality scans of
    many of Euler's works hosted at the Euler project at Dartmouth. The one I spent
    the most time studying is the <a href=\"http://math.dartmouth.edu/~euler/pages/E065.html\">Methodus
    Inviendi</a>, particularly Additamentum I.\r\n\r\nI'm sure there's a lot of beautiful
    mathematical typesetting in those historical originals. I think it might make
    a great Master's project or something to go back and identify the best samples,
    find out more about the people who made them, etc.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-09 20:36:07'
- author:
    name: tformat
  body: Thoes with 3B2 (Arbortext APP) question from this thread, feel free to drop
    me a line via www.tformat.com, chris
  created: '2010-07-28 16:15:38'
date: '2007-04-01 18:55:28'
title: A good math face is hard to find

---
