---
author:
  name: Jackie Frant
  picture: 109498
body: "Does anyone here still have one? \r\nDoes anyone here still use one?\r\n\r\nEarlier
  this morning I was on another site identifying a typeface. I suggested a base font
  and implied that the designer may have used their <em>rapidograph</em> to achieve
  the handtailored \"S.\"\r\n\r\nI received a polite thank you - and something that
  stopped me dead in my tracks...\r\n\"Thanks Heron, out of curiosity, what\u2019s
  a rapidograph?\"\r\n\r\nJust had to share."
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I still have a few somewhere. They are probably clogged though. I don't use
    them anymore. I always preferred my Altender Ruling pen in those old days of ruled
    lines. I do still use a brush and flat pen on occasion though.  Then again, I
    am an old fart B-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-03 14:24:07'
- author:
    name: Conor
    picture: 128161
  body: "I\u2019m not old enough to have <em>had</em> to use them, but I like to use
    them. I have a cheap Koh-I-Noor set, among other brushes and pens, which I use
    occasionally. I still use my Pantone markers too."
  created: '2007-04-03 14:31:54'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I have a lot of these, several generations (Rotring Variant & Rapidoliner)
    and also other brands (like Castell TG and Staedtler). Also the predecessor with
    loose nibs: Pelikan (later Rotring) Graphos \u2014 the A and O-series nibs were
    my favorites. Very hard to find nowadays.\r\n\r\n(I used to moonlight lettering
    comics\u2026)"
  created: '2007-04-03 14:52:54'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Our Graphic Design 101 course was rapidographs and paper only. We thought
    it was goofy, but soon learned the benefits of it.\r\n\r\nAlas, I haven't used
    one since then.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-03 15:03:18'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: "I used them all the time in the 70s and 80s - have not used one since - they
    are still made:\r\nhttp://www.dickblick.com/zz210/03/"
  created: '2007-04-03 15:09:01'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I still have a set somewhere (Koh-i-noor) but they're probably all clogged
    up. I do have a friend who makes lovely drawings with them tho. You can't beat
    them for line quality but I'm sure glad those days are behind me.
  created: '2007-04-03 16:02:03'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I've got a set of Staedtlers somewhere as well: miss the old days of doing
    perspective renderings with them, sort of.  ;-)\r\n\r\n(Along with Pantone markers,
    coloured pencils, French curves, and a McPhilben Lighting and Electrical Symbol
    Template -- all stuffed away in the drawer of the cabinet right behind my work
    chair.)"
  created: '2007-04-03 16:58:30'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: once in a while I get ther urge to rinse out my old Koh-i-noor pens, but these
    days everyone around me has switched to Pigma Microns and Copic Markers.
  created: '2007-04-03 17:26:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/christools_5998.jpg]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-03 17:28:27'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: ROFL!  I even found my Ames Lettering Guide -- now, if I could only remember
    how to use it....  ;-)
  created: '2007-04-03 17:33:45'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Everyone I know uses Micron pens for fine lines because maintaining Rapidographs
    is more trouble than they\u2019re worth. I haven\u2019t used one since the last
    time I took a drafting class, which was eleven years ago. \r\n\r\nInterestingly
    there\u2019s a local art charity that auctions the work of some autistic artists
    every year, and some of them are do hatching with Rapidographs that look like
    black-and-white photos. It\u2019s very impressive work."
  created: '2007-04-03 17:34:27'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: The year I took first year intro to graphic design was the last year the students
    had the assignment to draw a "ghetto blaster" on a chromecoated C1S paper. Wow
    I'm really showing my age now. :^)
  created: '2007-04-03 17:54:59'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: T-squares, triangles, proportion wheels (which I never used anyway) stickers
    (to mark up the mechs), non-repro blue pens and pencils, brayers, burnishers,
    cement thinner.
  created: '2007-04-03 18:02:02'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>sigh</em> I've got two full boxes of red editing pencils, as good as
    new.  ;-)\r\n\r\n(And I found a video online about how to use my Ames: yet another
    project to add to my \"spare time\" list....)  "
  created: '2007-04-03 18:12:30'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "At my old studio we still had radiographs, our Illustrator sketched everything
    in blues too. Mircon and Staedtlers and brush pens were the pens of choice though.\r\n\r\nI
    thought lots of people still used Pantone markers and pencils? My wife just bought
    me a few of their pencils for Christmas."
  created: '2007-04-03 18:50:23'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I use Pantone Markers every now and then.
  created: '2007-04-03 18:53:11'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Wow Chris, an old ruling pen. That predates the rapidograph!
  created: '2007-04-03 19:34:05'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Nice stuff Dez!\r\n\r\nI use my crew of Rapidos all the time, here are just
    a couple... \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/RapidoBuds_5463.JPG]\r\nThe
    one that used to be white plastic is from my set which is about 15-20 years old
    and the sleek black beauty comes from a set which is about 35-40 years old.\r\n\r\nThere's
    way more you can do with old skool stuff!!\r\n\r\n__________\r\nHiro\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-03 19:38:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Patty,\r\nThe ruling pen line is 10 time cleaner than any Rapidograph can
    do. It takes some time to get used to but it sure is easier to clean :-)\r\n\r\nTiff,\r\nThere
    was no such invention as a Ghetto Blaster when I was in design school. You had
    to plug in your old Victrolla and play 45s and 78s one song at a time. It sure
    was cool when Bill Haley's \"Rock Around the Clock\" came out!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-03 19:53:45'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: 'Aw, c''mon Chris, you''re just posing: when you were in design school, everything
    in the Top 40 was Gregorian chants....  ;-)'
  created: '2007-04-03 20:00:47'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "cool I had a yellow one because I had to take a design class... but I use
    to put it in my paint box... and if you didn't keep it clean it clogged up all
    the time. \r\n\r\nMine got very little use since I turned into a Photography/Fine
    Art major.\r\n\r\nWonder if I have it still? "
  created: '2007-04-03 20:01:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Vince, I sometimes used a Rapidigraph to opaque out a zit in a negative :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-03 20:06:41'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "I can remember going to the store to buy a jewelry cleaner - Folks thought
    that was pretty swanky, and I must have had a nice collection of jewelry -- little
    did they know it was for our ritual cleaning of the rapidographs...\r\n\r\nHey
    Chris - what - no 33rpm playing Bolero?"
  created: '2007-04-03 20:50:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My 33rpms played Tosca with Maria Callas :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-03 22:44:29'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: I bought a cheap ultrasonic denture cleaner - worked just as well for cleaning
    and half the price.
  created: '2007-04-04 15:07:21'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I thought lots of people still used Pantone markers and pencils? My
    wife just bought me a few of their pencils for Christmas.</cite>\r\n\r\nFor most
    Illustrators the combined costs of a cheap mac Mac, Wacom tablet, and Photoshop
    are less than what they would spend on markers, paper, and shipping costs in a
    year or two. And working digitally lets them accept a lot more commissions. \r\n\r\nMarkers
    still seem to be huge in fashion design, tho. "
  created: '2007-04-04 16:15:09'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "And storyboard artists.\r\n\r\nSometimes there's just no substitute for drawing
    on paper."
  created: '2007-04-04 17:52:39'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "I still have some Rotrings somewhere, but they haven't been touched for at
    least 10 years. Used to be a daily tool once upon a time (same time with a drawing
    table, a see-through millimeter grid and hot wax, spray glue or rubber cement).\r\n\r\nI
    have plans to use them for free drawing one of these days."
  created: '2007-04-04 21:06:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I have plans to use them for free drawing one of these days\"\r\n\r\nLOL!
    I have had that same plan for many years but I never seem to get around to it
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-04 21:31:01'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I was at my local art supply store today and noticed a pile of Rapidograph
    stuff locked up in a case. I asked him if the still sell; he said that it\u2019s
    pretty rare for people to buy them. \r\n\r\nI\u2019d love to pick up some Rotring
    fountain pens for calligraphy practice once I get better, but for now my work
    is not good enough to justify the expense."
  created: '2007-04-04 21:47:59'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "I worked for quite a few years making architectural drawings, so I have additional
    experience with technical pens beyond the uses we all remember in making mechanicals
    and such. As the resident pen-fetishist in every architectural office where I
    worked, I was often consulted about how to get this-or-that 00 or 000 pen working
    again, even when they were parked in the humidified carousels that Koh-i-Noor
    sold. Far more often, the draftspeople had left their pens out overnight or over
    the weekend and they'd seized up solid as a fossil. Pretty hard to get that tiny
    wire to move freely ever again once that has happened. \r\n\r\nWell folks, here's
    the answer and it is SO simple: at the end of the day -- <em>every single day
    without exception</em> -- just take the pens apart and dribble the ink back into
    the bottle from the reservoir. Do a quick but attentive rinse of the moving parts
    in the pen \"nib,\" dab dry with a tissue, and put the pen back together. This
    way the pen gets stored dry and you never have to worry: next time you need to
    make some lines in a hurry, just gas it up and it'll behave like a brand-new pen.
    Not that important to do with anything fatter than a \"0\" (.35mm) but for the
    skinnier sizes you will always save time and aggravation by doing this.\r\n\r\nRight
    here in the studio I still have (and occasionally use) sets of these from Koh-i-Noor
    Rapidograph, Rotring, and Staedtler, in addition to my Brause and H&B dip pens.
    I gave away my Graphos set to an enthusiastic student many years ago. \r\n\r\nI
    also have kept the Rotring compass and Ulano swivel knife setup that I used to
    cut all the original letters for a type that Michael Neugebauer designed for a
    local Salzburg architect back in 1977 (it later became Litera http://www.linotype.com/89893/litera-family.html)
    \  but I have never used it since for making letters. As a few other old codgers
    will remember, it is a very tedious process to cut letters completely by hand
    on Rubylith! "
  created: '2007-04-05 02:52:21'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>As a few other old codgers will remember, it is a very tedious process
    to cut letters completely by hand on Rubylith!</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m so lucky
    that I missed those days."
  created: '2007-04-05 02:57:58'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Yeah, but you learned a lot doing it.  ;-)\r\n\r\n(Not that my arthritis
    will let me do it anymore, but....)"
  created: '2007-04-05 03:12:07'
- author:
    name: Richard Hards
    picture: 110084
  body: "<cite> \u2026Ulano swivel knife setup that I used to cut all the original
    letters\u2026 it is a very tedious process to cut letters completely by hand on
    Rubylith!</cite>\r\n\r\nOr <a href=\"http://www.macdermidautotype.com/autotype.nsf/webfamiliesafrica/KNIFE-CUT%20Stencil%20Films\"
    target=\"new\">Greenfilm</a> or Amber for screen printing stencils.\r\n\r\nI never
    did get on with swivel knives, always developed a mind of their own when I used
    one (although the guy on the Ulano stand at trade shows who did Mickey Mouses
    [mice?] was very good).\r\n\r\nMy weapon of choice was a length of 3-4mm stainless
    steel rod, ground and sharpened. Held vertically and rotated in the fingers as
    required, you could get most of the way round a circle without changing grip or
    dislocating your elbow/wrist.\r\n\r\nI still use a couple (not as sharp as they
    need to be for cutting) to weed plotter-cut self-adhesive vinyl and Ruby every
    day."
  created: '2007-04-05 05:35:38'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "I've got a Faber Castell brand tech pen floating around in one of my drawers
    somewhere, as well as a bunch of Pigma Microns. I haven't used it since I bought
    my pen tablet. Maybe I'm just too young, but for me \"inking\" a uniform line
    is just so much easier on the computer, although I still break out the pens, brushes,
    and ink if I need to do something a little more creative.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2007-04-05 05:48:12'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Anyone still have a Rapidograph Tattoo?\r\n\r\nI can remember trying to draw
    lines for a mechanical that had to be out the door - yesterday.... my pen was
    clogged and of course, I shook it up and hit it onto my right index finger --
    but ooops, the cap wasn't on it, and to this day I have a little circular tattoo.
    I remembering going up to Ballantine Books right after and being told I had paid
    my dues :)\r\n\r\nMeanwhile - mili, I was cleaning up my office last month (first
    time in 4 years...) and I came across a set of French Curves. Remember how we
    use to cherish them and not let anyone touch them for fear they didn't know how
    to use an exactoblade with them?\r\n\r\nAnd I'm not familiar with Greenfilm, but
    I had my days with Rubylith -- all over negatives for draw downs (remember those)
    and of course, fixing typositor fonts when I couldn't find the proper marking
    pen for it and needed it NOW..."
  created: '2007-04-05 13:41:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There was a young lady who worked for me many years ago who, some years later,
    contacted me laughing almost to hysterics over the phone. She had been to a yard
    sale and found a very familiar looking lightbox. It had a customised rolling T-square
    and was well worn. She noticed the numerous bits of rubylith stuck about its edges
    and knew imediatly that it was my old light box from the mid-70s when we had worked
    together. I guess the mess I left that thing in was just as good as a DNA trail
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-05 14:03:33'
- author:
    name: sayerhs
    picture: 112341
  body: "I love using my rotring. Sometimes i just feel like making doodles in THIN
    lines. I bought mine for my typo 1 course last semester. Used ut only for correction.
    But now we're working with softwares. I didn't realise how long it had been since
    i used my rotring until i was correcting some text for my typo submission. A tiny
    voice at the back of my head said \"ctrl +\"....sigh..\r\n\r\nshreyas"
  created: '2007-04-05 15:01:22'
- author:
    name: rondomingue
    picture: 112412
  body: "I don't use them to create lettering anymore but I still use rapidiographs
    intensely for illustration purposes. In fact I use the .13 and the .18 the finest
    points to draw with. I absolutely love them even though they are difficult to
    maintain for beginners. I even use the Koh-I-Noor ink to create ink washes. Unfortunately
    I didn't get to hand letter when I was working in comics. We were using Illustrator
    by then.\r\n\r\n// Ron Domingue\r\n\r\nwww.rondomingue.com"
  created: '2007-04-05 17:02:57'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Heron, you just triggered up some memories! A ruler or a French Curve was
    a very personal thing. Nothing I hated more than some idiot using the drawing
    side of my ruler for cutting - and of course caught it a bit and so ended up ruining
    a perfectly smooth surface for good.\r\n\r\nOh, I don't have a Rapidograph tattoo,
    but the tip of my left index finger has slightly thinner skin on the thumb side
    thanks to a over enthusiastic use of a Stanley knife and a slipping metal ruler
    while cutting thick cardboard."
  created: '2007-04-05 17:36:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...the tip of my left index finger has slightly thinner skin on the thumb
    side thanks to a over enthusiastic use of a Stanley knife...\"\r\n\r\nOne of my
    students, many years ago, managed to stab herself in the thigh while trying to
    cut matboard and smoke a cigarette at the same time. Only later did the Surgeon
    General determine that smoking was bad for your health! (He made no mention of
    Stanley knives though :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-05 18:35:29'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Chris, you do have stories to tell! First the lightbox and now this smoking
    stabber! LOL!!\r\n\r\nThankfully smoking indoors at school was not permitted in
    my time, otherwise the nearby hospital would have been very busy."
  created: '2007-04-05 18:41:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "This particular young lady was a whole story in herself. Luckily, she found
    a nice young man with plenty of money because, god knows, she never would have
    been able to hold a job :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-05 18:48:15'
- author:
    name: myu
    picture: 112501
  body: "Here's an article about old Rotring rapidographs that you might find interesting:\r\nhttp://www.fountainpennetwork.com/forum/index.php?showtopic=30724"
  created: '2007-05-01 02:27:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Zippy!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-05-01 02:33:36'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "My set!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/04-30-07_2141_4943.jpg]"
  created: '2007-05-01 02:45:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Anyone still have a Rapidograph Tattoo? </cite>\r\n\r\nI do. On my
    left hand. I had come back to keep drawing and I stabed my self picking up the
    pen. You may be able to tell from this that I am not left handed."
  created: '2007-05-01 07:04:13'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "In art college (Limerick 1976\u20131981 the most wonderful place in the world)
    I was standing behind a door in the graphics department holding a scalpel when
    someone pushed open the door with venom causing me to stab myself in the thigh.
    But so sharp was the blade that it didn't even bleed.\r\nAs regards Rotrings I
    have old Rotring Variants and Micronorms which I love and use and a Rotring 600
    fountain pen which is a thing of beauty. Certainly beats drawing in Adobe Illustrator
    with that dead computer line (although I use both)\r\nHas anyone any experience
    using Graphos pens?"
  created: '2008-06-16 15:48:04'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "Is Rapidograph \u2014 something like a Rei\xDFfeder?\r\n\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2008-06-16 22:39:29'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I've three sets. Staedtler & Koh-I-noor. One unused, one unusable, one probably
    recoverable, and a number of assorted loose pens. I ruined another set by drawing
    on drafting mylar. I learned afterwards that there are special tips for that.
    \r\n\r\nJames, ...<cite>And working digitally lets them accept a lot more commissions.</cite>\r\n\r\nJust
    cause I draw a thing on paper doesn't mean I have to schlep the original over
    to the client. Scanning counts as working digitally on that score. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-06-16 23:17:31'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I used Staedtler Mars matic pens, rulers and paper the first two semesters
    on school bak in year 2000. \r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2008-06-17 16:01:23'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Man, that's funny.\r\n\r\nI used to use Rapidographs all the time when I
    was a comic-drawing teen artist. I loved the variety monolines they would give.
    Now they're languishing somewhere in my office. Perhaps one day I'll pull them
    out and show my daughter how to use them, but I'm teaching myself how to use an
    Intuos tablet now, so I've got other more digital fish to fry."
  created: '2008-06-17 16:08:51'
date: '2007-04-03 14:19:33'
node_type: forum
title: Rapidographs

---
