---
author:
  name: Toby
  picture: 109971
body: "Here\xB4s an update on a sans I\xB4m working on. It now consists of five weights
  with italics. \r\nLet me know what you think!"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Fine work, especially in the black weight. You must be getting some formal
    training?\r\n\r\nThe spacing is too tight if you intend this to be used for text
    setting (which it really can do, despite it's buoyant character).\r\n\r\nI dig
    your effort to keep things compact, but consider giving the descenders just a
    little more room. The 'g' is distractingly cramped anywhere near 10 pt.\r\n\r\nIt
    doesn't serve the Black weight well to show it at 10 pt. as it's really best for
    display use.\r\n\r\nThe angled strokes really shine on the italics."
  created: '2007-04-08 18:07:43'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: Excellent!!! Where do we buy it!!!
  created: '2007-04-08 18:18:36'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: "Thanks for the input guys, I\xB4ll consider it. No formal training, but thanks
    for believing so :)\r\nI\xB4m just finishing this one, so I haven\xB4t found a
    way to distribute it yet!"
  created: '2007-04-08 19:52:24'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Verrry niccce!
  created: '2007-04-08 20:18:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "I think it takes real courage to post a font on Typophile, Toby. I think
    it's excellent. Stephen's right; fine work. \r\n\r\nHere are my comments for what
    it's worth:\r\n\r\nI wonder if the five weights fall in the right position on
    the scale. I think you can afford a medium (in between the current medium and
    bold). The current medium looks like more like a regular to me. I also think your
    bold might need to be a touch heavier to work with the existing medium. I'd like
    to see a regular and bold together.\r\n\r\nYou may consider that the 'a' is Zai's
    signature character but it is an stumbling block for me (Am I alone?) I wonder
    if it will cost you sales or generate sales (you may not care about income). Maybe
    it is worth including more than one as an OpenType alternate. The fact that it
    looks like it is an inverted 'e' could be contrived/gimmicky? I'm sure someone
    else with more experience might care to comment on this.\r\n\r\nSuppose you go
    with the existing 'a', is it me or does the centrestroke look optically steeper
    than that of the 'e'? Maybe that doesn't bother you.\r\n\r\nThe tail of the 'g'
    appears to get shorter as the font gets bolder. Put the thin 'g' next to the black
    'g' - I am not sure if they are alike enough?\r\n\r\nAre the 'C'/'c' and 'K'/'k'
    too narrow?\r\n\r\nTo me the '4' appears to slope backwards because the upper
    left stroke seems too upright and perhaps needs to echo the angular downstroke
    on the '7' more.\r\n\r\nThe question mark '?' looks out of place when put next
    to '3', '5' and '8' (not that it has to be like these numerals but I imagine you're
    trying to get commonality where possible).\r\n\r\nI think the centrestroke of
    the ampersand should perhaps extend more towards the 't' part of the glyph. The
    Black ampersand looks to be falling backwards.\r\n\r\nSorry if I sound negative,
    not meant to be so.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-08 20:46:17'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: Thank you Nick, good stuff.
  created: '2007-04-08 21:31:09'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Some anglo types have much wider 'C's, but those of other types, particularly
    in Germany, are much more narrow. I think yours are just fine.
  created: '2007-04-08 22:18:47'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: "I think I\xB4ll stick to that \"a\", and maybe have a one-storey a as an
    alternate. It is, as you say Nick, the signature character. After all there are
    quite a few faces with an ordinary a to choose from. I guess some will like like
    it and some not. And I don\xB4t think there\xB4s anything wrong with the shape,
    neither logically nor calligraphically (look at Galliard), one\xB4s just not used
    to it.. \r\nYeah, the spacing is too tight for text, but that\xB4s fairly easy
    to fix, lowering the descender is somewhat more complicated...lots of characters
    resting on it. Maybe I could raise the bowl on g instead..\r\nI agree the Medium
    is more like a Regular, is just didn\xB4t want a predetermined standard weight.
    I think it works fine with the Bold (check out new pdf). \r\nAbout the questionmark,
    I found this shape to be the least space consuming one. \r\nI\xB4m not sure about
    the black ampersand falling backwards, I think the crossbar keeps it on its feet...
    but I\xB4ll look at it!"
  created: '2007-04-09 09:49:44'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Great work & excellent comments, I had the same impression of a too tight
    spacing and the counter of the 'g' in the light.\r\nCongratulations !"
  created: '2007-04-09 11:10:03'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: The lowercase a is indeed the signature character. I'm not too much of a fan
    of it in big type either, but it doesn't really stand out in texts & since this
    is not a display font, that's what really counts.  And maybe it just takes a little
    getting used to ;-)
  created: '2007-04-09 13:26:21'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: 'I agree with the rest, it''s a very well done typeface. I would even be so
    bold as saying you have room for a heavy weight between the bold and the black. '
  created: '2007-04-09 15:03:22'
- author:
    name: Joe Bauldoff
    picture: 112247
  body: Incredible work, Toby. Thanks for the preview.
  created: '2007-04-09 15:05:42'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: Thanks everyone, very encouraging! I guess I could throw in more weights,
    but I think five is quite enough, I want a decent difference between them.
  created: '2007-04-09 16:55:25'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> I agree the Medium is more like a Regular, is just didn't want a predetermined
    standard weight. \r\n\r\nGood thinking. Regular is a bad weight name anyway. Along
    with Normal."
  created: '2007-04-09 17:04:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Toby: <em>I agree the Medium is more like a Regular, I just didn\xB4t want
    a predetermined standard weight.</em> \r\n\r\nI'm just not sure if medium is the
    right name.\r\n\r\nStephen: <em>Some anglo types have much wider \u2018C\u2019s,
    but those of other types, particularly in Germany, are much more narrow.</em>\r\n\r\nMaybe
    it's because I'm an Englishman. What about the 'K'/'k'? Is that an English thing
    too?\r\n\r\nStephen : <em>Regular is a bad weight name anyway. Along with Normal.</em>\r\n\r\nMedium
    suggests to me a bolder weight. Is it time a new name was invented as a replacement
    for Regular/Normal? Even Book is presumptuous.\r\n\r\nToby: <em>I think it [the
    Medium] works fine with the Bold (check out new pdf).</em>\r\n\r\nIt's a very
    good contrast. Thanks for the illustration. Does the black work in the same way
    as the Bold? Not that it has to, but if you are genuinely offering a non-prescriptive
    naming structure then IMO you need a weight that will bold up(?) well with the
    light and the thin too. Plus a suitable bold weight of a font is often two weights
    away from its lighter counterpart. "
  created: '2007-04-09 19:36:58'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: "Yeah, well I think you can always say there\xB4s a weight missing for some
    purpose (if you\xB4re not looking at something like TheSans). About the K/k, i
    agree that in Thin to Medium, the k\xB4s could be a little wider, but then the
    angles would be too much. I\xB4d need to use a double junction for them to be
    wider, and that wouldn\xB4t fit style."
  created: '2007-04-09 21:21:00'
- author:
    name: sgh
    picture: 111405
  body: "Horizontally cutting the top-right-to-bottom-left stroke of X/x seems odd
    to me, since the stroke finish on y,v,w,k is slanted.\r\n\r\nOverall, very nice!\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-09 21:54:55'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: Those characters all stand steady on the ground - poor x needs that stability
    too..
  created: '2007-04-09 22:36:06'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Excellent, excellent work. I can definitely see this getting a lot of use.
    Very versatile & playful and beautifully drawn to boot. Well done!
  created: '2007-04-10 00:40:41'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "very nice!\r\n\r\n<em>I guess I could throw in more weights, but I think
    five is quite enough, I want a decent difference between them.</em>\r\ninstead
    of weights, how bout niceties like small capitals, text figures, &c.?"
  created: '2007-04-10 01:51:21'
- author:
    name: fernloft
    picture: 111457
  body: Yeah I like the sharm angles on some of the curved characters... The "a" for
    instance. I think it'd be nice to see it more consistently on all appropriate
    characters.
  created: '2007-04-10 01:57:54'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: "Maybe I\xB4ll do smallcaps etc later, right now what I need is a break :)"
  created: '2007-04-10 13:55:12'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i can understand that completely!
  created: '2007-04-10 18:02:35'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "I think it's a wonderful type family. I will however echo some of the previous
    comments; the descenders are indeed a little too short for my liking and I'd be
    concerned about them getting lost on some presses, especially on newsprint. It
    might be a lot of work, but at this stage where you've already committed so much
    time a little more might be worth it when shopping this around to vendors.\r\n\r\nThe
    regular 'a' is a bit different and I'm not sure I like it. The idea of having
    an alternate in OT would be nice. It's like the '@' symbol in DIN it's unique
    but every job I've worked at and we've used DIN for a client we've had to sub
    out the symbol with one from another font. I'd hate for that to be the case here. "
  created: '2007-04-10 18:25:24'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "great work! i want it! are you considering oldstyle figures and small caps?\r\n\r\nkeep
    it coming:-)\r\n\r\nalex \r\n.........................................................\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bisondesign.no\">Bison Design</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myspace.com/sponnorway\">Sp\xF6n</a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-10 21:46:39'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "<em>keep it coming:-)</em>\r\nYes, it's great!\r\n\r\n<em>The regular \u2018a\u2019
    is a bit different and I\u2019m not sure I like it. The idea of having an alternate
    in OT would be nice.</em>\r\nI really like the \"a\", but it could cause problems.
    A more common alternate would be certainly helpful in some cases. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-11 11:47:12'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "toby,\r\nEverytime i look at the specimen, i find new details i really like.
    It's almost like a treasure hunt.\r\n\r\nOne thing,though: I really think you
    should make a more neutrl alternate 'a'. maybe even two; one single-storey and
    one \"normal\". the sharp corner on the lower bowl stands out a lot, and cold
    be a reason to drop the font, espcially for heading/display use. Also, the 'g'
    i too tight i think. \r\n\r\nplease let us know when it's available for purchasing.
    \r\n\r\nHow long have you been working on this  one?\r\n\r\nalex\r\n.........................................................\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bisondesign.no\">Bison Design</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myspace.com/sponnorway\">Sp\xF6n</a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-11 14:30:37'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: "Glad you like it Alex. I will revisit the a and the descender, you got me
    convinced.\r\nI\xB4ve worked on this now and then for about three years, next
    to my day job.."
  created: '2007-04-11 15:31:19'
- author:
    name: miles
    picture: 110468
  body: "keynote characters can be useful, but an 'a' as a keynote is too repetative,
    certainly in english.\r\nalso, whilst the 'a' you have is endearing, it appears
    to me as an upside down 'e'.  \r\nbut it's great work, congratulations Toby."
  created: '2007-04-13 16:45:15'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: I don't want to douse the enthusiasm for the signature character, but something
    made me think I had seen something like that before on Typophile. I realized it
    was Pill Gothic, that was developed and shown here before being released by Veer.
    Galathea from Berthold has this sort of a as well, though it's a serif face. Food
    for thought.
  created: '2007-04-17 07:00:28'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "Well, that doesn't really bother me that much. Innovation is w\xE0y overrated.
    For every single thing, there can only be 1 pioneer & by now, pretty much everything
    has been done before at least once. The only thing left for us to do is to make
    a good collection from all the things we like & try to add some personal flavour
    & I for one think Toby's done a hell of a job with his Zai font. An alternative
    \"a\" may be a good compromise (especially for larger type), but I'd leave the
    original in. Set in texts in regular size for reading it doen't even stand out
    that much."
  created: '2007-04-18 11:30:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: My suggestion is that you go ahead & release it as is as a display version
    ( or even the very large dispaly version ) & then cycle back to make the text
    version  ( or optically tuned sizes ) with more open spacing ( or more & more
    pen spacing in the case of optical sizes ), as well implementing the various suggestions
    that Stephen made.
  created: '2007-04-21 04:21:54'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: "I\xB4m back with some improvements (hopefully..) A normal a and a bit more
    descender.\r\nAlso did some work on 4, g, e and &. It\xB4s all in the new pdf!"
  created: '2007-04-23 19:23:31'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Unfortunately you can only attach to your original post. Most folks do that
    and just add a note in a new post that there is another PDF available.\r\n\r\nThe
    changes are good. The 'g' can breathe now! Don't lose that old 'a' as a stylistic
    alt. \r\n\r\nI think Eben's suggestion is excellent. There is definitely potential
    for a text face here."
  created: '2007-04-23 19:53:05'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: Yes, that might be something to consider, even though I feel the identity
    could be diminished with too many versions
  created: '2007-04-23 20:43:30'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>  feel the identity could be diminished with too many versions </cite>\r\n\r\nI
    can see where you could be concerned, and doing what I and Stephen are suggesting
    will not be easy. Some might have said the same thing about all the weights you
    have. Personally I am confident that your font's personality is strong enough
    to lend itself to Small Caps or a text face optimized for very small text etc.
    Moreover there is help here on typophile to get you there. And there might be
    other options as well. Certainly the bigger the face's family the better it is
    likely to do commercially I think. Still, it's your thing; and after doing such
    good work you may simply want a break!\r\n\r\nLooking at the all caps setting
    of the word TRANSPOSE I was struck at the way the caps feel like sign painter's
    letters. \r\n\r\nWould you talk a bit about the feeling or 'voice' you feel the
    font has, your intent for the font, and the context in which it was made?"
  created: '2007-04-23 23:49:52'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> Certainly the bigger the face\u2019s family the better it is likely to
    do commercially \r\n\r\nI can confirm that is true. Sometimes this is an unfortunate
    truth as some designers expand the family to tens of styles before polishing the
    base weight and width. But that is not the case here."
  created: '2007-04-24 01:37:08'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: "<cite>the caps feel like sign painter\u2019s letters.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    handpainted signs was an inspiration, and old, bold letterpress stuff like those
    modelling for FB Rhode and HTF Champion. I guess I wanted to make a more contemporary
    version, with some of my own personality in it too. First I thought of it as mainly
    a headline face (it was then consisting of three bold weights), but then I tried
    expanding it to lighter weights, and found it worked quite well."
  created: '2007-04-24 20:23:04'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: Great work.
  created: '2007-09-12 21:12:54'
- author:
    name: Endre Berentzen
    picture: 112121
  body: Really nice!
  created: '2007-09-14 21:34:02'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "I'm just going to be as dull as the rest... And tell you that you've done
    a really great work here. This family is astonishingly beautiful. I like it a
    lot. Despite the rather big x-height it looks very legible, strong and text face.\r\n\r\nI
    saw something that may look alike a glitch. Take a look at the UC S black italic.
    Inner bottom curve doesn't look completely smooth. At about two o'clock it looks
    like ti has a slight bump.\r\n\r\nAre you making this family for a certain client
    of yours or is this font going to be publicly sold by some foundry?"
  created: '2007-09-14 21:52:24'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: Thanks guys, this one will hopefully be released in a couple of months...
  created: '2007-11-06 15:23:07'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "cool!\r\n\r\ndo you have a website?"
  created: '2007-11-06 17:32:42'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: 'From which foundry_? '
  created: '2007-11-06 17:47:45'
- author:
    name: eskalation.dk
    picture: 113986
  body: "I think you have done a good piece of work here, im not a big fan of the
    a though, it seems far to pointy to me, and doesn't fit into the rest.\r\n\r\nVisit
    my website for my portfolio: <a href=\"http://www.eskalation.dk\">www.eskalation.dk</a>"
  created: '2008-01-15 16:52:57'
- author:
    name: JRGcisterna
    picture: 113441
  body: "cool work, \r\nI liked a lot, is a fairly unique typography"
  created: '2008-02-04 19:47:31'
- author:
    name: BezerBezer
  body: "Yeah, I love this type! Nice goin' man. Just beautiful.\r\nBezer\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-17 19:05:18'
- author:
    name: turbulenz
  body: Loved Zai.
  created: '2008-02-20 10:10:01'
- author:
    name: Fredrik
    picture: 110755
  body: "Tobias, what happened next to Zai?\r\n\r\n/Fredrik"
  created: '2008-03-23 15:55:38'
- author:
    name: Jojoto
    picture: 110956
  body: "Gorgeous typeface!\r\n\r\n*Would love to use it."
  created: '2008-03-31 10:32:22'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: Thanks for all kind comments. It will be released shortly..stay tuned!
  created: '2008-03-31 14:19:38'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: nice!!!
  created: '2008-03-31 20:34:48'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Zai has been released as <a href="http://typophile.com/node/47349">FF Enzo</a>.
  created: '2008-07-12 19:39:57'
date: '2007-04-08 17:33:59'
files:
- filename: zai.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/zai.pdf
- filename: text.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/text.pdf
- filename: zai2.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/zai2.pdf
node_type: forum
title: Zai, a sans serif

---
