---
author:
  name: Sw MY
body: "Hi Folks,\r\n\r\nUniscribe and Devanagari (or any complex script): the glyph
  substitutions are not supported by InDesign.\r\n\r\nHas anyone written or heard
  of any conversion tool, that will analyze Uniscribe text (that is, text written
  in a complex script like Devanagari) and make all substitutions permanent (that
  is, the actual glyphs, rather than lookups for substitution, will be written), thus
  making the font useable in InDesign? So it would be a workaround for Indesign and
  Uniscribe. . .\r\n\r\nThanks.\r\nMY"
comments:
- author:
    name: beachmat
  body: please delete (is it me or is the site running really slow)
  created: '2008-04-02 15:29:05'
- author:
    name: jimson-spammer
  body: Designing is not an easy task to do but if you  pay your full attention you
    will  get best <a rel="dofollow" href="http://www.d4you.us">affordable web site
    design</a>  of results,hard work can turn any hard thing into easy ones but must
    need hard work.
  created: '2012-11-21 17:40:16'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "You'll probably have to wait for a future version of InDesign (as in, later
    than CS3), or for an Indic-enabling plug-in.\r\n\r\nThe specific approach you
    describe may be technically possible, but very difficult indeed. I think it would
    make a lot more sense to actually enable Indic layout in InDesign.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Sw MY
    body: "Thanks for your comment. \r\n\r\nI am not a programmer, so I can't judge
      how difficult it would be to do what I was imagining. But I still hope that
      someone who is a programmer might have the interest and the genius to write
      some kind of code (be it a plug-in or anything else) that can make Uniscribe
      and InDesign become more friendly. Waiting for Adobe might be like waiting for
      Godot! \r\n\r\nWhy, actually, hasn't Adobe incorporated Uniscribe into InDesign?
      I hesitate to impute to Adobe the kind of sinister racist motives that another
      commenter has suggested. I imagine it would be one of two possible reasons:
      (i) it is actually very difficult to incorporate Uniscribe into InDesign, because
      the features of the one somehow conflict with the features of the other; or
      (ii) It is not economically viable: why spend money to develop a feature that
      will be used primarily by people who will not pay for it? (That is, at least
      in India, as I understand it, the vast majority of Adobe software users do not
      have licensed software: they buy it on the street corner or download it from
      pirate sites. (An aside: when we needed two licenses for InDesign, we put in
      an order with a software supplier in Kolkata, and waited over two months before
      we received the disks. Adobe doesn't make it easy to go legal in India!))\r\n\r\nWith
      best wishes\r\nMY"
    created: '2007-04-12 04:01:01'
  created: '2007-04-10 06:02:01'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "The OpenType specifications were released ten years ago in April 1997.\r\n\r\nThis
    is not an April Fool joke. This is a fact.\r\n\r\nThe OpenType font format was
    devised to support non-Latin scripts, especially the so-called \"[edited by moderator]
    scripts\".\r\n\r\nMerrian-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary, 11th edition, defines
    \"[edited by moderator]\" as \"a member of a socially disadvantaged class of persons\".
    Ten years ago, \"[edited by moderator]\" in Africa, India etc. were disadvantaged
    such that none of them was permitted to use any of their own scripts (Devanagari
    etc.) under Windows.\r\n\r\nSeven years ago, Microsoft implemented the OT support
    for \"[edited by moderator] scripts\" in Africa, India etc. as an integral component
    of all versions of Windows published since that time. Since many years, even the
    most elementary Windows programs (e.g. the simple one line editor \"Edit\") and
    also all freeware word processors (e.g. Open Office Writer) can handle \"[edited
    by moderator] scripts\".\r\n\r\nAs opposed to this, for the past ten years, Adobe
    has been intentionally preventing \"[edited by moderator]\" from using \"[edited
    by moderator] scripts\". Although the OT support for \"[edited by moderator] scripts\"
    is an integral component of Windows readily available to all application programs,
    Adobe wilfully blocked this Windows OT component so that \"[edited by moderator]\"
    in Africa, India etc. cannot use their own \"[edited by moderator] scripts\".\r\n\r\nConsidering
    that even the simplest one-line editor written by a hobby programmer permits \"[edited
    by moderator]s\" to use \"[edited by moderator] scripts\", there is no other explanation
    than that Adobe deliberatey prevents \"[edited by moderator]\" from using \"[edited
    by moderator] scripts\" for reasons of racism and apartheid.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-10 07:58:21'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Why, actually, hasn\u2019t Adobe incorporated Uniscribe into InDesign?</em>\r\n\r\nLet's
    imagine that it had. What do you think would happen to an InDesign-Mac user when
    opening a file created with InDesign-Windows?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Sw MY
    body: "<em> >Let\u2019s imagine that it had. What do you think would happen to
      an InDesign-Mac user when opening a file created with InDesign-Windows?</em>\r\n\r\nOh,
      good point. So there's a third possible reason. Is there any support for Indic
      scripts, similar to Uniscribe, on the Mac?\r\n\r\nIf the two systems are incompatible,
      then the only hope for advanced script support in InDesign would be through
      a plug-in, I suppose. "
    created: '2007-04-12 10:49:00'
  created: '2007-04-12 06:27:27'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> it is actually very difficult to incorporate Uniscribe into InDesign\r\n\r\nSince
    Uniscribe is an integral component of all newer Windows versions (Windows 2000,
    Windows XP, Windows Vista), even young school kids writing simple programs can
    easily display all Indic scripts. This means, that Adobe programmers, who are
    assumed to have more programming experience than young school kids would have
    no difficulty to display \"[edited by moderator] scripts\" in Adobe programs,
    if the Adobe outfit were willing to permit \"[edited by moderator]\" to use the
    \"[edited by moderator] scripts\" of their own mother tongues.\r\n\r\nTypophilers
    do not care that \"[edited by moderator]\" in Africa, India etc. cannot use their
    own \"[edited by moderator] scripts\". For instance, if Typophilers see this picture\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/[edited
    by moderator].jpg\r\n\r\nthe only thing they care about is to know the name of
    the typeface which was used for typesetting the headline. But Typophilers do not
    care that, for instance in India alone, there are more than one billion (1,000,000,000)
    speakers who want to use fonts for the scripts of their own mother tongues.\r\n\r\nBut
    Adobe deliberately prevents \"[edited by moderator]\" from using their mother
    tongue scripts.\r\n\r\nSo, \"[edited by moderator]\" who want to use InDesign
    will have to renounce their mother tongue.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-12 12:02:40'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Note from Moderator:\r\n\r\nUli, you are treading on thin ice. The use of
    that word is absolutely not tolerated here on Typophile. You occasionally shed
    interesting light on topics and that is why you continue to be able to post. You've
    made your point, I believe.\r\n\r\nI am going to edit your post."
  created: '2007-04-12 17:03:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Adobe decided more than a decade ago, i.e. around the same time that they
    were first getting involved with OpenType, to free their applications from dependence
    on OS support for font rendering, text encoding and text layout, in order to provide
    a seamless cross-platform experience for users. This means, among other things,
    that Adobe's support for complex scripts has lagged behind that of Microsoft for
    the simple reason that Adobe's historical internationalisation pushes have not
    been as global as Microsoft's and they have concentrated on the East Asian market.\r\n\r\nAs
    the developer of the Adobe Arabic, Adobe Hebrew and Adobe Thai fonts, though,
    I'm pretty confident about Adobe's long-term commitment to complex script support,
    even if I wish it were happening faster."
  created: '2007-04-13 03:35:57'
- author:
    name: Sw MY
  body: "<em> > even young school kids writing simple programs can easily display
    all Indic scripts.</em>\r\n\r\nIn that case, dear sir, please you or someone kindly
    write a little something so we hapless Windows InDesign users can use unicode
    Indic scripts in InDesign. :-)"
  created: '2007-04-13 11:35:40'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> In that case, dear sir, please you or someone kindly write a little something\r\n>
    so we hapless Windows InDesign users can use unicode Indic scripts in InDesign.\r\n\r\nSwami
    Mahayogananda:\r\n\r\nIf Windows application programs do not intentionally block
    or disable the built-in Windows Uniscribe font renderer for complex scripts, then
    these programs will automatically render Indic scripts.\r\n\r\nFor instance, if
    you look at\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/itrans/fonttest.htm\r\n\r\nyou will
    see this\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/itrans/fonttest.gif\r\n\r\n<strong>if
    and only if</strong> you use a Windows browser that <strong>does not</strong>
    intentionally block or disable the Uniscribe renderer.\r\n\r\nHowever, since all
    Adobe application programs (InDesign etc. etc.) intentionally blocked or disabled
    the built-in Windows Uniscribe font renderer for Indic scripts, it is not possible
    to write \"a little something\", because Adobe intentionally prevents Indians
    from using Indian scripts.\r\n\r\nI hope that you now get it that Adobe does not
    want you to use Indic scripts in InDesign, otherwise it would not willfully block
    the Uniscribe functions.\r\n\r\nThe \"a seamless cross-platform experience for
    users\" described by Mr. Hudson means that Indian users have a \"seamless cross-platform
    non-experience\", because Adobe intentionally blocked or disabled both Microsoft's
    Uniscribe as well as Apple's own Macintosh Indic font renderer.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-13 14:26:05'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Uli's statements about Adobe \"intentionally blocking\" Uniscribe (or Apple's
    Indic font rendering) are simply false. Adobe is not \"blocking\" these services,
    but is simply avoiding using OS-specific calls in the first place, in favor of
    our own cross-platform text handling and text rendering. (As many others have
    mentioned.)\r\n\r\nAdobe is certainly interested in better international language
    support, and it's an area we know we need to improve dramatically.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    when things descend from questions and honest discussion to abusive false accusations
    and attempts at rabble-rousing, that's where I exit the discussion. I don't expect
    I'll respond further to Uli here (or probably in any other thread, based on what
    I've seen). \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-04-13 17:27:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The \u201Ca seamless cross-platform experience for users\u201D described
    by Mr. Hudson means that Indian users have a \u201Cseamless cross-platform non-experience\u201D,
    because Adobe intentionally blocked or disabled both Microsoft\u2019s Uniscribe
    as well as Apple\u2019s own Macintosh Indic font renderer.</em>\r\n\r\nAdobe apps
    neither 'block' nor 'disable' either Windows or Mac Indic script processing, they
    simply don't use it (and they are not alone in this). Uniscribe is a set of APIs
    for processing Unicode text, and applications have to deliberately make use of
    it, either directly or via a higher level set of APIs; it is not something that
    one blocks or allows, it is something one deliberately takes advantage of or chooses
    not to. And there are good reasons why developers might choose to 'roll  their
    own', as Adobe have done, rather than making their application dependent on OS
    services that are outside of their control. One of the key reasons is, as I wrote,
    cross-platform compatibility. Yes, Windows and Mac both offer Indic text processing
    via system services, but they do so in incompatible ways using competing font
    layout formats. Adobe have a decade-old commitment to cross platform compatibility
    in their design apps, and that means waiting for them to assign resources to supporting
    language and script handling for specific markets.\r\n\r\nI'm the first person
    to say that I wish Adobe apps supported Devanagari and other Indian scripts, and
    also that we've been waiting much too long for this. I know Adobe have the know-how
    to implement this stuff, because I've worked with some of the people who would
    be responsible. It's a question of managers releasing budget funds to get the
    work done and getting it into the product cycle.\r\n\r\nMisrepresenting what Adobe
    have done and their reasons for doing it is not going to make Indic support in
    Adobe apps happen any sooner."
  created: '2007-04-14 01:55:30'
- author:
    name: Sw MY
  body: "Thanks to Messrs Phinney and Hudson for clearing up the misconceptions about
    Adobe and complex scripts.\r\n\r\n<em> >I know Adobe have the know-how to implement
    this stuff, because I\u2019ve worked with some of the people who would be responsible.
    It\u2019s a question of managers releasing budget funds to get the work done and
    getting it into the product cycle. </em>\r\n\r\nAny suggestions on encouraging
    the managers to let those funds flow etc.? (other than putting in a request at
    the website, which we have done ...) \r\n\r\nWell, it's good to know that what
    we want is <em>possible</em>, and now we have yet another great chance to excercise
    what this world is constantly demanding of us: <em>patience</em>!\r\n\r\nMY"
  created: '2007-04-16 07:21:26'
- author:
    name: beachmat
  body: If CS3 has been launched in Indian now - which I believe it has - shouldn't
    providing support for Indian languages be a priority? And surely Adobe could get
    a head-start on its main DTP competitor in a very large market?
  created: '2007-05-12 16:57:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I've just discovered, to my <em>great</em> delight, that InDesign CS3 supports
    Thai layout. There is no linebreak or spell-check dictionary, but if you set the
    dictionary language to [No Language] all aspects of Thai OpenType layout seem
    to be functioning beautifully.
  created: '2007-05-14 03:10:58'
- author:
    name: beachmat
  body: What font was that with?
  created: '2007-05-14 19:43:57'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Probably Adobe Thai - which John and Tiro did the production work on. Should
    work with any OpenType Thai font.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-05-15 03:55:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Yes, Adobe Thai, but I have also tested successfully with Linotype's new
    OT versions of Sukothai and Sirichana, and with a test revision of Microsoft's
    Angsana font. \r\n\r\n[Older Thai fonts, presumably designed to work with pre-XP
    Thai handling on Windows, do not perform very well in InDesign: the tone marks
    float too high above the letters. I suspect that Uniscribe does some magic to
    recognise such fonts and to apply a different version of the Thai engine to them.]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-15 05:19:12'
- author:
    name: Hariram
  body: "Instead of blaming or fighting with Adobe, I like to submit my humble proposal
    to make enable Indic processing in InDesign as follow:\r\n\r\nAdobe InDesign CS3
    supports Unicode, XML, XMP, HTML and all web compatible tech, but Indic (Hindi-Devanagari,
    Oriya, Gujarati etc.) not supported because these are very complex due to some
    illogical positioning of Maatraas and conjuncts. \r\n\r\nFor example:\r\n\r\n(1)
    \r\nInput is \r\n\u0915+\u093F = \r\n\r\nBut Output is needed/optained as\r\n\u0915\u093F
    \r\n\r\ni.e. shifting of character inputed afterwards, but to appear before it.
    \r\n\r\n(2) \r\n\r\nInput is \r\n\r\n\u0915+\u093E+\u0930+\u094D+\u092F+\u094B+\u0902
    \r\n\r\nBut output of which is \r\n\r\n\u0915\u093E\u0930\u094D\u092F\u094B\u0902
    \r\n\r\ni.e. shifting of third+fourth character-code to seventh+eighth in sequence.
    \r\n\r\nFor obtaining this rendering only OT font's glyph substitution/possitioning
    rules can not solve the problem. This illogical and complex positioning has to
    be obtained by the special technic inbuilt in the Rendering Engines of Operating
    System. (In case of Windows : Unicows.dll and USP10.dll etc. i.e. Uniscribe or
    Unicode Script Processor) \r\n\r\nWhereas the scope of a PageLayout program like
    Adobe InDesign should remain limited upto the OT Fonts (i.e. glyphs). Even if
    in Edit mode the text is rendered in traditional/desired form with the help of
    rendering engine of Operating system, but when the layout output in Unicode will
    be sent to the printer(Postscript, or color separation processing units), the
    repossitioned glyphs gets distorted, because there the rendering engine does not
    work or save the balance between sequences of Encoded characters and repositioned
    sequences of glyphs of OT fonts. \r\n\r\nMore, the output not necessirialy to
    be get with that particualr OS (like Windows) only, user should have freedom to
    get it with any OS. Or the layout-output must be OS independent. \r\n\r\nI think
    this is the policy of Adobe, the great IT gaint must finding some OS independent
    tech. for their products like InDesign.\r\n\r\nSo I propose a solve, atleast may
    be for presently/temporarily, as : \r\n\r\n(1) \r\nFor Print media \r\nIn Hindi
    (or other Indic) in Unicoded OT fonts: \r\n\r\n-- 1st Compose with Layout in Unicoded
    OT fonts (with Rendering Engine help)\r\n-- Then make a PDF of the pages with
    option of \"inlcude OT fonts\" \r\n   (As PDF uses only sequence-wise glyphs of
    a OT font, does not use the Unicode character code sequences, as there is no need
    to futher processing) \r\n-- Then send the PDF for print or pre-print processing.
    \r\n\r\n(2) \r\n\r\nDesign/Develop Hindi (or other Indic) OT Fonts with all the
    complete syllables(\u0905\u0915\u094D\u0937\u0930\u094B\u0902), not with mere/limited
    characters (\u0935\u0930\u094D\u0923) and glyphs(\u0935\u0930\u094D\u0923\u094B\u0902
    \u0915\u0947 \u091F\u0941\u0915\u0921\u093C\u094B\u0902 \u092F\u093E \u0938\u0902\u092F\u0941\u0915\u094D\u0924\u093E\u0915\u094D\u0937\u0930\u094B\u0902).
    The possible number of complete syllables in Hindi still could not be counted
    yet. It may go beyond Billions. \r\n\r\nFor example in Devanagari (Sanskrit) in
    the word \r\n\r\n\u0915\u093E\u0930\u094D\u0924\u094D\u0938\u094D\u0928\u094D\u092F\u093E
    \r\n\r\n\u0915\u093E is one syllable\r\nand\r\n\u0930\u094D\u0924\u094D\u0938\u094D\u0928\u094D\u092F\u093E
    is second syllable\r\n\r\n\u0930\u094D+\u0924\u094D+\u0938\u094D+\u0928\u094D+\u092F+\u093E
    \r\n\r\nHere 10 number of Unicode characters combindingly makes one syllable (\u0905\u0915\u094D\u0937\u0930).
    \r\n\r\nThere should not be any such thinking or arguments that \"this or that
    Conjunct/syllable is never used\". If one has to write name of all the persons
    all over the world in Devanaagarii, all combinations of C+C+C+C+C(n)...+V/M+VM
    should be taken in account in syllable designing. [C=consonant, V=Vowel, M=Maatraa,
    VM=Vowel Modifier].\r\n\r\nFor this in Devanaagari\r\n\r\nif Base Consonants =
    34 Numbers\r\nBase Vowels = 16\r\nBase Maatraa = 16\r\nVowel Modifiers = 3\r\nNukta
    = 1\r\n\r\nThen at 1 level of consonant, total number of syllables may be 34+16=50*16=800*3=2400\r\n\r\n\u0915
    \u0915\u093E \u0915\u093F \u0915\u0940 \u0915\u0941 \u0915\u0942..... \u0915\u094B
    \u0915\u094C \r\n\u0915\u0902 \u0915\u093E\u0902 \u0915\u093F\u0902 \u0915\u0940\u0902
    \u0915\u0941\u0902 \u0915\u0942\u0902..... \u0915\u094B\u0902 \u0915\u094C\u0902
    \r\n\u0915\u0901 \u0915\u093E\u0901 \u0915\u093F\u0901 \u0915\u0940\u0901 \u0915\u0941\u0901
    \u0915\u0942\u0901 ..... \u0915\u094B\u0901 \u0915\u094B\u0901\r\n\u0915\u0903
    \u0915\u093E\u0903 \u0915\u093F\u0903 \u0915\u0940\u0903 \u0915\u0941\u0903 \u0915\u0942\u0903...
    \u0915\u094B\u0903 \u0915\u094C\u0903\r\n....\r\n....\r\n\u0939 \u0939\u093E \u0939\u093F...\r\n\u0939\u0903
    \u0939\u093E\u0903 \u0939\u093F\u0903\r\n\r\n\u0915\u094D\u0915\u093F \u0915\u094D\u0915\u0941
    \u0915\u094D\u0915\u094C, \u0915\u094D\u0915\u094C\u0901\r\n\u0938\u094D\u092E\u093F
    \u0930\u094D\u0915\u094D\u0930\u094B\u0901... \u0932\u094D\u0915\u094D\u092F (\u092F\u093E\u091C\u094D\u091E\u0935\u0932\u094D\u0915\u094D\u092F)\r\n\r\n\r\nAt
    2 level of consonant conjuncts 2400**2\r\nAt 5 level of consonant conjuncts 2400**5\r\n\r\nAt
    10 level of consonant conjuncts 2400**10 = 6.3403380965376e+33\r\n\r\nWhich comes
    to infinite, or we may say total number of syllables in Devanaagari (or in other
    Indic script may be as much as total number of stars in the sky or hairs in a
    human body)\r\n\r\nN.B. : Above calcutaion may be wrong, it should be taken just
    a mere example/glympsh.\r\n\r\n====\r\n\r\nSo the Indic users should \r\n\r\nEither
    make a Hindi OT font with all the syllables(\u0905\u0915\u094D\u0937\u0930) \r\n\r\nor
    \r\n\r\nRemain satisfied by just using the glyphs (pieces of characters) only,
    forget further processing, searching, replacing, sorting and indexing. \r\n\r\nHariram
    \r\n"
  created: '2007-08-02 09:37:33'
- author:
    name: Geke
    picture: 113045
  body: "I\u2019m not an expert, but I understand InDesign\u2019s situation like this:\r\n1.
    Adobe wanted to have it truly cross-platform, and because Microsoft\u2019s and
    Apple\u2019s implementations -- Uniscribe and ATSUI/Core Text -- are different,
    Adobe had to create a third one for itself. \r\nAlso, they can\u2019t use the
    AAT font technology that Apple used or uses for its Indic script support.\r\n2.
    Because InDesign has very sophisticated typographic possibilities, it\u2019s much
    more difficult to integrate Indic-script support in it than in a simple text editor.
    Although I guess that, if they had planned it for complex scripts from the start,
    things would have been easier.\r\n\r\nHope that helps to clear the air...\r\n\r\nFor
    the time being, a way of using InDesign for Indic scripts is to use non-Unicode
    fonts. There is FontSuvidha for converting Unicode Devanagari to many other encodings;
    I don\u2019t know if there are similar programs for the other scripts."
  created: '2007-08-31 11:19:56'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Either make a Hindi OT font with all the syllables (\u0905\u0915\u094D\u0937\u0930)
    \r\n\r\nFor our Devanagari font, downloadable for free at my site\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/itrans/index.html#SANS2003\r\n\r\nI
    took care that <strong>all</strong> approx. 1000 ligatures (\u0905\u0915\u094D\u0937\u0930)
    were allocated PUA (private use area) code points in the hexadecimal E000+ range
    so that our font, which is unique in this regard, can, at least theoretically,
    also be used with Adobe programs which cannot handle Indic Unicode font rendering.
    However this roundabout makeshift of entering PUA codes by character palette can
    only be recommended for a few words typeset in Devanagari, not for longer texts.
    For complete texts, you must use a professional Windows program such as MS Word,
    not InDesign."
  created: '2007-08-31 14:04:39'
- author:
    name: Geke
    picture: 113045
  body: "Maybe I\u2019m unnecessarily stirring this up, but I want to give you a better
    opinion of Uli, even if I don\u2019t support the tone of his outbursts. Over the
    years, he has worked so hard on enabling proper Indic script typesetting, struggling
    with all the intricacies presented by the various font technologies and operating
    systems, that I can understand how the creators of so many obstacles to his goal
    have started to appear like enemies to him.\r\nAlso, the word you edited out was
    not meant in an abusive, but in a defensive sense, as you had surely noticed,
    and could have been replaced by something like \"underdeveloped\". In Europe,
    by the way, this word (or what I think it was) is not as shocking as it is in
    the US.\r\n\r\nThat said, I was intrigued by the earlier post about Thai script.
    Does InDesign handle this script completely, or does it leave it to Uniscribe\u2019s
    grace when the text is marked as \"no language\"?"
  created: '2007-09-05 12:57:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>That said, I was intrigued by the earlier post about Thai script. Does
    InDesign handle this script completely, or does it leave it to Uniscribe\u2019s
    grace when the text is marked as \u201Cno language\u201D?</em>\r\n\r\nI believe
    the support for Thai is entirely internal to InDesign; it does not rely on Uniscribe.
    We originally developed the Adobe Thai fonts for Acrobat forms, and in that context
    I believe support was, at least initially, via Uniscribe. But as I understand
    it the InDesign CS3 developers then added support for Thai internally.\r\n\r\nThai
    is relatively easy for Adobe to implement within their existing layout architecture,
    because there is only on instance in which a single character (sara am) needs
    to be represented by more than one glyph, and this can be handled as a buffered
    character substitution since the two parts are also independent characters (sara
    aa, nikhahit).* So Thai does not require any one-to-many glyph substitutions,
    which are the big stumbling block for Adobe.\r\n\r\n*Uniscribe also handles this
    as a buffered character substitution."
  created: '2007-09-06 06:30:01'
- author:
    name: Jenny Man
  body: "Hello and Help..\r\n\r\nI'm a little stuck and you guys seem to know what
    you are talking about!\r\n\r\nI am doing some work for a Museum in Thailand and
    need to incorporate Thai text (supplied by the client), into some graphics produced
    in InDesign CS2 (running on OS 10.4) - so I don't need to write it, just work
    with the text my client sends me.\r\n\r\nI am using the Thai fonts that came with
    OS10.4 English version. The problem is that the character spacing gets distorted.
    Accents are slightly off and all over the place, rather than sitting above characters,
    they are slightly off and in some instances take up about a character space to
    themselves. The overall effect is funny breaks between characters. \r\n\r\nDoes
    CS3 handle this better? Is there an international version of Indesign that I could
    get to overcome this?\r\n\r\nAny help is gratefully received. \r\n\r\n(Apologies
    for the haphazard description and poor use of correct terminology).\r\n\r\n\uFFFC"
  created: '2008-02-18 12:25:04'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I have been told that CS3 supports Thai. I believe I read this from John
    Hudson somewhere here on Typophile. It is my understanding that you cannot do
    this in CS2, be it on a Mac or on a PC. The international versions of InDesign
    have been CE and ME \u2013 these handled the accents of Central and Eastern European
    languages, as well as the Right to Left nature of certain Middle Eastern scripts
    like Hebrew and Arabic. There isn't an \"InDesign South Asia\" or anything like
    that\u2026 but if the hints I heard were correct, you'd be just fine with your
    Thai texts as long as you upgrade!"
  created: '2008-02-18 12:47:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Jenny, there are two issues here: one is that CS2 does not support Thai layout
    at all, and the other is that the Mac OS X Thai fonts are probably AAT format
    rather than OpenType, i.e. they use Apple's own layout intelligence model rather
    than OpenType's, which means that they will also not work in CS3 or anywhere else
    in Adobe apps.\r\n\r\nSo if you want to use those particular fonts then you will
    need to set the text in a Mac app that uses AAT layout. What you might be able
    to do is to set individual blocks of text in such an app, export or print them
    to PDF, and then embed the PDFs in your InDesign app as graphics. This is what
    I do when I need to include text in InDesign documents using scripts or font formats
    that are not supported by Adobe.\r\n\r\nAnother option, if you don't mind updating
    your software and switching fonts, would be to install InDesign CS3 and use some
    OpenType Thai fonts. The Adobe Thai font family ships with Acrobat 7.0.5 and later
    (look in the Acrobat/Fonts folder) and is good for text. Linotype have just launched
    OpenType versions of their classic Sukothai and Sirichana typefaces."
  created: '2008-02-18 18:11:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'PS. One very important thing to note: when setting Thai text in InDesign
    CS3, in the language drop down list you have to select ''None''. InDesign does
    not include Thai spellchecking or grammar functionality, but Thai layout may not
    work correctly if the text is identified as any other languages.'
  created: '2008-02-18 18:13:57'
- author:
    name: emenninga
  body: "As the engineer on InDesign who added improvements for Thai in CS3, I want
    to be as clear & honest as I can. We took some steps towards Thai support in InDesign,
    but we do not claim to have reached our minimal level of support (yet). The same
    is true for other scripts.  For Thai, there is [[http://www.indesignthai.com/board/|InDesign
    Thai]] which I have heard of, but haven't evaluated.\r\nAnyway, for Thai:\r\n1)
    We do not use AAT or Uniscribe. In fact, we only do the correct positioning of
    marks using OpenType fonts that do the positioning themselves using 'mark' and
    'mkmk' features. Microsoft's original Thai fonts had a table-based way of doing
    mark positioning using some PUA accent glyphs, but we don't support it. I think
    InDesign ME and InDesign Thai both support the Microsoft legacy fonts, but not
    AAT fonts.  (not sure)\r\n2) In CS3 we did not utilize any code to break Thai
    phrases correctly. The user would have to insert \"discretionary line break characters\"
    manually (U+200B: zero width breaking space). FYI, Thai doesn't use spaces between
    words, but still expects line-breaks to occur between words. There are free algorithmic
    approaches available which we are investigating.\r\n\r\nThe InDesign team believes
    that extending our script support is a good long-term business opportunity, but
    as pointed out above we have to implement a cross-platform solution and (more
    critically) we are unwilling to release something under the \"Adobe InDesign\"
    label unless it reaches a pretty high level of quality. And, of course these features
    compete for resources with every other wish-list..."
  created: '2008-02-18 19:16:29'
- author:
    name: Jenny Man
  body: "Thanks for the responses - what a relief to know that i'm not alone!\r\n\r\nIt
    appears to be possible to upgrade to CS3 and get hold of some OpenType Thai fonts,
    although this is not guaranteed to work. Plus there may be some manual tweaking
    required, which I would not be confident in doing not being a Thai speaker. I
    could always download a trial of CS3 to try it but it looks like the choice of
    font is key to the correct alignment of accents. Linotype was mentioned earlier
    - can I assume that any one of these should work?\r\n\r\nA silly question - but
    how do our Thai friends get around it? Is it that the whole system from hardware
    to operating system - is set up for it?\r\n\r\nWith thanks"
  created: '2008-02-19 12:26:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Linotype was mentioned earlier - can I assume that any one of these should
    work?</em>\r\n\r\nI have the Linotype Sukothai and Sirichana OpenType fonts, and
    can confirm that they work in InDesign CS3 (with Eric's caveats about linebreaking).
    I can also confirm that the 'Adobe Thai' fonts work -- I know this because I made
    them. :)\r\n\r\nI have put a PDF of samples of the fonts, set in InDesign CS3,
    online at\r\n\r\nhttp://www.tiro.com/John/ThaiCS3samples.pdf\r\n\r\nThe linebreaking
    issue is a tricky one, and you would need a qualified native proofreader.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-20 05:34:20'
- author:
    name: Jenny Man
  body: "Unfortunately it won't be practical to get in a native proofreader - not
    on a regular basis anyway. So i'm a bit stuck. Other than working in MS Word and
    exporting as a pdf to an Adobe program - would you suggest any other method? (However
    radical!)\r\n\r\nthank you thank you thank you..."
  created: '2008-02-26 15:07:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Well, you could set the text in Word, using the same text block size as in
    your target InDesign document, make use of Word's Thai dictionaries for linebreaking,
    and then you could insert hard linebreaks at the end of every line, and copy/paste
    the text into InDesign, preserving the Word linebreaks.\r\n\r\nOr, perhaps tidier
    on the InDesign end, you could paste in the text without hard linebreaks from
    Word, and then use the (printed) Word setting as a guide for where to place discretionary
    linebreaks (shift+enter/return) in InDesign. This would produce correct linebreaks
    but wouldn't treat every line as a separate paragraph."
  created: '2008-02-26 20:42:39'
- author:
    name: emenninga
  body: We call the shift+enter a "soft return" because it forces a line break without
    forming a new paragraph.  The discretionary break is an optional break that doesn't
    insert a hyphen or anything. We don't assign it a keyboard shortcut, but one could.  Numerically,
    the soft return is U+000A, paragraph break is U+000D, and discretionary break
    is U+200B.
  created: '2008-02-27 00:13:20'
- author:
    name: beachmat
  body: Jenny, our Thai friends use a plugin for Indesign called Thai Support Plugin,
    which adds support for various kinds of Thai font and does acceptable Thai line
    breaks, which we have, so we could give you some help with that job if you still
    need it. There's also another cheaper plugin for CS3 which does Thai line breaks
    but I haven't tried it.
  created: '2008-04-02 15:25:44'
- author:
    name: beachmat
  body: please delete
  created: '2008-04-02 15:28:20'
- author:
    name: CarolynLP
  body: "I am facing this same problem. I have a large document (1700 pages) in Lao
    using Uniscribe to display the glyphs. I need to import this text into something
    other than Word (Quark, InDesign, Pagemaker, Framemaker) and combine it with newly
    created text. \r\n\r\nCan anyone help over come the problem that Adobe doesn't
    have a conversion from Uniscibe?\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-24 16:38:12'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "http://www.laoscript.net/\r\n\r\nThey offer a plug-in for InDesign CS2 and
    later. I know nothing else about it, so I can't vouch for it in any way.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2008-04-25 18:39:31'
- author:
    name: arifkarim
  body: 'even if on the adobe site, it says that new indesign cs3 supports fully opentype,
    its completely a joke! i downloaded few adobe trials in a greed to see... but
    no! a complex nastaliq charachter based opentype font is adobes enemy, while ligtures
    are working fine... that is a big shame for adobe.... '
  created: '2008-05-02 00:16:58'
date: '2007-04-10 05:34:17'
title: Uniscribe and InDesign

---
