---
author:
  name: moachret
body: "We are doing some research on national typefaces. \r\nWe would like to know
  if any country's\r\ngovernment has commissioned a national typeface as Canada did
  with \"Cartier\". \r\nIs there an equivalent for other countries?\r\n\r\nIs there
  a typeface that immediately makes you think of a particular country/nation?\r\n\r\nDo
  you have tips/links for us?\r\nthanks"
comments:
- author:
    name: kuroneko
    picture: 112403
  body: "For me it's :\r\n\r\nHelvetica > Switzerland\r\nDidot & Garamond > France\r\nFraktur
    & DIN > Germany\r\nInterstate > USA"
  created: '2007-04-10 15:44:04'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Germany uses DIN for all its roadsigns, and the official typefaces for government
    print design are Neue Praxis and Neue Demos, both by Gerard Unger.\r\n\r\nhttp://styleguide.bundesregierung.de/index_de.html"
  created: '2007-04-10 15:44:16'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Sure.\r\nPaul Renner's Futura Buchschrift.\r\nThis was Germany in 1925 to
    1930.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kopfgrafik_5985.gif]"
  created: '2007-04-10 15:47:29'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Sure, Futura was used all over (not just) Germany around 1930, but it wasn't
    commissioned as a national typeface. This makes it different from say, DIN, and
    maybe Cartier, Neue Demos, etc.\r\n\r\nDuring the late 17th century, King Louis
    XIV of France commissioned an offical royal typeface, which would turn into Romain
    du Roi. There is another example for you ;-)"
  created: '2007-04-10 15:50:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Czar Peter \"commissioned\" a whole new script for Russia :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-10 15:56:53'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "Hi Margaret\r\nGreat Britain would be Gill Sans."
  created: '2007-04-10 15:57:39'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "\u2026and Caslon!"
  created: '2007-04-10 15:58:18'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Of course Futura was not a commissioned font by the german government of
    1930.\r\n\r\n\"Is there a typeface that immediately makes you think of a particular
    country/nation?\"\r\n\r\nThis - for me - is Futura.\r\nI associate Germany of
    the 30ies with this font.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-10 15:58:30'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "RE: The UK\r\n\u2026and maybe Clarendon, too. And don't forget Times New
    Roman, then."
  created: '2007-04-10 15:58:43'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Switzerland = Helvetica ???
  created: '2007-04-10 15:59:54'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Well, I associate Germany of the 1930s with Futura, too, but I associate it
    just as much with Memphis or Koch-Fraktur or Bernhard-Fraktur, too, not to mention
    National, Element, Tannenberg et al!
  created: '2007-04-10 16:02:03'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "This is what I was wondering about.\r\nHelvetica is a german font.\r\nBut
    its not necessary to hurt the guys from up the hills.\r\nLet them Helvetica. They
    anounce it everytime as a swiss font.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-10 16:02:30'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Well, this makes it difficult for me.\r\n\"Fraktur\" fonts - this is Germany
    before 1925.\r\nAfter it its Futura. And after 1933 it was, what we call \"New
    Gothic\" fonts like the ones you listed.\r\nBut the character of a German was
    and is Futura.\r\nNo question for me.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-10 16:05:44'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">Helvetica is a german font.\r\n\r\nWell\u2026 yes, it is!\r\nBut it is really
    just the grown up version of Neue Haas Grotesk, which is a Swiss typeface. And
    the Swiss never forgot that the German Helvetica typeface has had these Swiss
    origins. I've always felt that the Germans have tended to overlook this by saying,
    \"well even Neue Haas Grotesk was based on Akzidenz-Grotesk, or something else
    German.\"\r\n\r\nThe Germans can think that Helvetica is German, the Swiss can
    think it is Swiss, and the Americans can even think it is American ;-)\r\n\r\nIt
    is not a typeface's birthplace that necessarially gives it its \"nationality,\"
    but more where and how it is used, I think. In other words, maybe Helvetica was
    born in Frankfurt, but does it still have a German passport? The beautiful Helvetica
    may have met some nice foreigner and emigrated to other shores a long time ago,
    for all we know."
  created: '2007-04-10 16:07:21'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">But the character of a German was and is Futura.\r\n>No question for me.\r\n\r\nUnless
    the character of a German is Walbaum Fraktur, Helvetica, or even FF Meta! Surely
    these have been used as much in Germany as Futura. I think that, with 80 million
    Germans, there is probably a bit of a question as to what a German is, too ;-)
    But I can say with certainty that I am not a German, if that helps any. What typeface
    I'd be personally, I really can't say."
  created: '2007-04-10 16:09:32'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Well I live in NY - which is not exactly America - and the "national" font
    here is probably Gotham! Not commissioned as such but pretty appropriate.
  created: '2007-04-10 16:32:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Wasn't their a version of Gill Greek commissioned for the Greek Olympic Games?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-10 17:01:14'
- author:
    name: Stephan Kurz
    picture: 110847
  body: "This thread reminds me about the efforts on a logo for the European Union's
    50th anniversary\u2026 (see <a href=http://ec.europa.eu/avservices/photo/event_reportage_en.cfm?id=1622>ec.europa.eu</a>)"
  created: '2007-04-10 17:11:09'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I think Union is government commissioned:\r\n\r\nhttp://praegnanz.de/essays/391/union"
  created: '2007-04-10 17:15:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Romain du Roi, c.1700.\r\n\r\nCartier was designed to celebrate Canada's
    centennial, not as branding for the government, which uses Fry's Baskerville for
    its wordmark.\r\n\r\n\"National typefaces\" is a frequent Typophile topic. People
    are always trying to tag formal qualities as being specifically national, sexual,
    violent, whatever. It's a meaningless minefield, IMHO, but a good opportunity
    to voice one's opinions, as most people have strong feelings about nationality,
    sex, and violence. But if you are going to go there, why not compare national
    typefaces with international typefaces such as Verdana and Comic Sans, or the
    more recent ClearType faces -- commissioned by the trans-national corporation
    Microsoft.\r\n\r\nFutura is a great American typeface of the 1930s, 40s and 50s.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-10 18:23:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "While other people are always trying to pretend they're an island...\r\n\r\nBut
    yes, the RdR is the ultimate \"national\" typeface. And yes, Futura\r\nis not
    very German at all. Helvetica? That's just processed cheese.\r\n\r\nBTW, we should
    really distinguish between \"commissioned by a nation\",\r\n\"intended for use
    as a national type\" and \"ending up as a national type\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-10 19:08:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>While other people are always trying to pretend they\u2019re an island\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nhttp://www.screenonline.org.uk/film/id/441383/index.html\r\n\r\nOr
    part of a distributed community.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-10 21:02:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "An archipelago at most.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-10 21:27:58'
- author:
    name: Monoecus
  body: "Helvetica was not commissioned by the Swiss Government. However the new typeface
    for all roadsigns in Switzerland is a commissioned font:\r\n\r\nFrutiger ASTRA"
  created: '2007-04-10 22:41:00'
- author:
    name: kuroneko
    picture: 112403
  body: "\"Helvetica was created by Miedinger with Eduard Hoffmann at the Haas\u2019sche
    Schriftgie\xDFerei (Haas type foundry) of M\xFCnchenstein, Switzerland.\"\r\n\r\nPlus
    Switzerland is also called Helvetic Confederation (CH) ...\r\n\r\nHowever I acknowledge
    that it's as swiss as german, but they already have the DIN so let us the Helvetica
    lol"
  created: '2007-04-10 23:02:59'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I think this issue is dangerously worth discussing with a smile. If Canada
    has selected a style to represent the government's voice in a typographic way,
    good for them, good for all. If Canada.gov want to imply or market the notion
    that this face, this one typeface (and its Italic and bold presumably?), represent
    \"Canadians\" in typographic form, instead, perhaps think of that One Person's
    Face, (and that person's significant other presumably, and maybe their dog, home
    and children?), that should represent Canada. Is that possible? :-)\r\nCheers.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-11 00:36:35'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Well, Binney and Ronaldson's Old No. 2 was \"aided\" by U.S. statesmen. It
    is now know by the name Monticello.\r\n\r\nOf course, B&R were transplanted Scotts
    . . . who needed antimony . . .\r\n\r\nAnd didn't Caslon pretty much copy some
    Dutch fonts? That is, after he got less violent & abandoned Blackletter . . ."
  created: '2007-04-11 01:19:08'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I have to concur with Nick and add that we all have our own aesthetic/national
    associations but they are flimsy and almost completely without merit. Giving this
    kind of project as a teacher seems like a cop-out on their responsibilities. I
    mean what possible value can a project like this have for a student? To show them
    that sometimes there is no answer and it's all messy? It's no better than banal
    chatter as far as I can see and not the stuff of a lesson. Maybe I am being over
    strong in my codemnation but ... that's how it looks to me at the moment.
  created: '2007-04-11 02:48:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yeah you're right, blackletter conveys Armenia as much as it does Germany...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-11 03:08:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "An ad from <em>Harper's Bazaar</em> in 1929, for a French perfume.\r\nFor
    these particular American readers, Futura was leveraged for its qualities of style
    and modernity. Severity, as critics of the day would have termed it.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fut1_5842.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fut2_6376.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/big43_4065.jpg]\r\nAmerican
    art director Helmut Krone used Futura in his VW ads in the sixties, but that was
    somewhat arch, and a rare occasion where Futura's Germanity was specifically referenced."
  created: '2007-04-11 04:13:05'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "wacky fi ligature in that sample! But love the Futura osf, and noticed that
    they are available now if I only had the cash.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/neufville/futura-nd/"
  created: '2007-04-11 04:18:26'
- author:
    name: knigge02
    picture: 110771
  body: "the german gevernment commissioned Gerard Ungers' \"Neue Praxis\" and \"Neue
    Demos\".\r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typografie.info/typowiki/index.php?title=Neue_Demos"
  created: '2007-04-11 09:06:43'
- author:
    name: moachret
  body: "Thanks for your quick responses.\r\n\r\nWe started this discussion not to
    get the ultimate answer or to \r\narchive typefaces with national labels on them.
    \r\n \r\nWe are aware of the how slippy this subject is (It graded us up to the
    hottest topic within one day ;)) as soon as you try to classify it strictly. \r\n\r\n\r\nBut
    many countries have a kind of national look in typedesign, no?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-11 15:27:41'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>But many countries have a kind of national look in typedesign, no?</cite>\r\n\r\nSort
    of. To the extent that that exists it is the result of fashion. These trends last
    a decade or even a century. But like a local fashion for a color or a fabric or
    music they go away and are replaced. And this goes on faster now than ever. And
    it's a more & more global world in design. So if you are looking for historical
    fashion trends in type ( or lettering) over time - then sure, that's good to know
    about. Important too. No student of type should be without that information. But
    looking for the 'Dutchness', or 'Englishness' or 'Germanness' in a type design
    is intellectually shallow and unsupportable. If you look closely you will find
    that it is individuals or small groups who choose a path & win support for their
    ideas for a while. Along with fashion; technology, economics, and company policies
    and wars influence the type we see too. National 'character' per se has 0% to
    do with it."
  created: '2007-04-11 16:20:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Eben, I'm glad to see you're now moderating your position.\r\nAlthough it
    seems you still have some ways to go.\r\n\r\n> To the extent that that exists
    it is the result of fashion.\r\n\r\nAlmost entirely, yes. Almost.\r\nBut try ignoring
    the fashion element in type and see what happens.\r\n\r\n> looking for the \u2018Dutchness\u2019,
    or \u2018Englishness\u2019 or \u2018Germanness\u2019\r\n> in a type design is
    intellectually shallow and unsupportable.\r\n\r\nOn the contrary, ignoring the
    national dimension in type is those things.\r\nFurthermore, it is feel-good escapism.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-11 16:46:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>many countries have a kind of national look in typedesign, no?</em>\r\n\r\nSure,
    most places have a visual personality, but it's a very different proposition to
    say that places are a complex amalgam of their constituent parts, as opposed to
    the premise that places can be visually represented by iconic stereotypes. \r\n\r\nYou
    would also have to decide on how to measure the relative significance of typefaces.
    \r\n\r\n-Font sales\r\n-Fonts installed\r\n-Quantity of words read\r\n-Online
    or print\r\n-Environmental exposure (billboards, signage, product packaging, POP
    displays, junk mail, pizza menus, spam)\r\n-Mentions on Typophile\r\n-Appearance
    in award-winning ads\r\n-TDC type design awards\r\n-Mention in trade publications
    and history books\r\n\r\nOtherwise it's pure conjecture as to which typefaces
    are representative of which culture.\r\n\r\nFact is, without any form of statistical
    analysis based on a coherent strategy, this kind of research just bats around
    second hand ideas, a meta-discussion.\r\n\r\nIt would perhaps be fruitful to take
    a publishing sector, such as newspapers, and compare countries. That would be
    manageable, and focus demographics. But even it would be clouded by the presence
    of international newspaper redesigners, and you would have to wonder, are the
    type choices a national preference, or the designer's?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-11 17:00:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it\u2019s a very different proposition\r\n\r\nNot really - it's essentially
    the same thing.\r\n\r\n> Otherwise it\u2019s pure conjecture\r\n\r\nHuh, sort
    of like how we decide most things in life...\r\nNot to mention how some people
    design type...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-11 17:14:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Eben, I\u2019m glad to see you\u2019re now moderating your position.\r\nAlthough
    it seems you still have some ways to go. </cite>\r\n\r\nI am not sure I see what
    you mean. \r\n\r\nLet's look at an example: I suspect that you could be interested
    in, for instance, Armenian-ness in type. Needless to say I think that's just silly.
    And I hope that's not the case. You should do & think as you like of course...\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, if you are instead interested in specific things like the history
    of Amerinan type, the things that are unique about the way the Armerian language's
    glyph/letterforms work and how they got to be that way, how to make them better,
    how they relate to Roman forms - or don't - in other words : specific things.
    Then, I think that's great! \r\n\r\nThe one thing is utter mush & not even poetic.
    The other is mushy enough already, lacks no savouriness, and is at least worthwhile.
    This is the distinction I am making. \r\n\r\nI am ceratin I have some way to go
    still. What direction do you suggest?\r\n\r\n<cite> Otherwise it\u2019s pure conjecture</cite>\r\n\r\nConjecture
    per se is better than talking about National character in type because it has
    some hope of revealing something. The idea of 'national charcter' on the other
    hand is obviously fatuous tomfoolery. At best - useless. At worst - dangerous.\r\n\r\nNick,
    that's a nice example of how you might begin to look at the issue of local difference
    ( which is real, and worth thinking about ) in a deliberate methodical manner."
  created: '2007-04-11 18:19:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Eben, especially judging from the atypically colorful and meaningless adjectives
    you're using, I think you're exhibiting the classical post-WWII knee-jerk reaction
    against the -admittedly present- dangers of nationalism. But looking the other
    way has never worked.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-11 18:24:45'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'I don''t think what Iam getting at oblierates value of the idea that cultures
    exist. It just insists that people be more thoughtful & specific when they describe
    it.  But clearly you think that''s not enough. So please explain further. What
    is your outlook? How does it differ? Also, if you believe in the idea of ''national
    character'': say so. I won''t agree with you - but that''s okay.'
  created: '2007-04-11 18:40:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's pretty simple: national characters exist, no matter how faint or secondary
    they can be in making design decisions. Good design (or good anything) takes as
    many things into consideration as possible (or at least as is feasible). Practically,
    typographically most countries don't have a character worth considering, but many
    have enough that it's escapist (and bad design) to ignore that. If you completely
    ignore national character in type, just a few short steps away would be to ignore
    type design outright.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-11 18:52:01'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'I am confused - do you mean national charcter - in terms of font designs
    made by citizens of that country; or do I read you correctly as saying national
    charcater in terms of the current (or past) preferences as consumers from a country
    - or the preferences as a corpus of designers from a country? Or all 3? Or something
    else? In each case I have named so far I think it''s more accurate to think in
    terms of trends & fashion. To say ''national character'' is to invoke something
    supposedly eternal. And I still think that''s silly or even absurd - and therefore
    not useful. What is more useful is to think in terms of smaller demographics :
    eg the intended audience for a design.  '
  created: '2007-04-11 20:16:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't understand what's so confusing. Eternal?!\r\n\r\nWhat I'm simply
    saying is that certain fonts can make people think of certain nations (or anything
    else), if only rarely and to a limited extent. And yes, these associations change
    all the time, and vary between people. What else is new?\r\n\r\nThis works differently
    in display and text fonts, and it's not like one font can only have an association
    with one nation, but for example if you have a choice between Font-X and Font-Y
    and the former has a French connection and what you're setting has a French connection,
    all things being equal chances are good it's better design to use Font-X. Reading
    anything else into anything I've written involves \"motivated\" presumptions.
    And thinking that society is just a bunch of 100% independent ethereal individuals
    is pure lala-land.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-11 21:25:34'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> What I\u2019m simply saying is that certain fonts can make people
    think of certain nations (or anything else), if only rarely and to a limited extent.
    And yes, these associations change all the time, and vary between people. What
    else is new? </cite>\r\n\r\nOkay I am good with that.\r\n\r\n<cite> And thinking
    that society is just a bunch of 100% independent ethereal individuals is pure
    lala-land. </cite>\r\n\r\nAnd this too.\r\n\r\n<cite>all things being equal chances
    are good it\u2019s better design to use Font-X. </cite>\r\n\r\nThis made some
    sense but I would have maybe said instead something like : \"If you know that
    your audience is people of Algerian descent in their late 40's-60's who live in
    France and have for the last 30 years - then you would be foolish to discount
    the fact that they live in France & have seen & grown accustomed to that French
    set of media etc. Where as if you are talking about Heugenots ( ethnic french
    folk ) living in the US say in NY state for the last 150 years ( or whatever -
    sorry my history is not all it should be ) I would not worry too much about their
    ethnic 'Frenchness' imapcting a font choice. Because Frenchness is a cultural
    construct not something in the blood.\r\n\r\nI suspect we are disagreeing any
    longer. Am I right?\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-11 22:30:51'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "So far the discussion has been about faces that have been commissioned by
    governments and then faces that are often thought [by some] to represent a national
    character.\r\n\r\nThere's a third category: types that have been created by a
    designer with the goal in mind of representing a culture or nation. The only one
    that immediately comes to mind at the end of a long work day is Gabriel Martinez
    Maeve's Mexica, which he has explained to me was an attempt to forge a face with
    a decidedly Mexican feel from the European roots of the Latin alphabet. It is
    a wonderful face.\r\n\r\nHis web site [http://www.kimera.com.mx] is undergoing
    re-construction, so you may have to go elsewhere to see it.\r\n\r\nI gotta go
    to a party right now, so I haven't time to root out any oter URLs so you can see
    it. maybe later. Good night.\r\n\r\npowers\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-11 22:43:49'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "For a long time Gill Sans and Plantin were dead giveaways that a publication
    had originated in the UK. No more! Other forms have taken their place, those typefaces
    have migrated or expanded their \"territory\", and later generations have different
    associations with them. PowerPoint, for example. \r\n\r\nPatzcuaro, display face
    by F. Storm, is based very closely on lettering that represents an official style
    in the town of Patzcuaro, MX. The town only allows signage to be hand-painted
    in black and red on the walls of buildings by approved signpainters (as I understand
    it). Sort of a historical district thing. The result is a relatively consistent
    and distinctive appearance to the signage all over the town. Nice! Some of the
    signs would just make you sigh. But if you never saw the typeface or traveled
    through Patzcuaro, is it a local style (does a tree fall in the woods...)? \r\n\r\nEben,
    I think Hrant is saying there's more to it than simple association or fleeting
    trends. Flag colors and design, road layout, architecture, food, geography, agriculture,
    dances, music and lots of other things about cultures are (or should be) very
    specific to places. Especially in these times, this is of great value and should
    be preserved, not dismissed as arbitrary. Just because most of the US is a giant
    endless mall doesn't mean the rest of the world should be. \r\n\r\nWill's comment
    reminds me that Menhart explicitly intended some of his typefaces to represent
    Czech character or culture. Not sure whether ultimately this came to pass, but
    there's an example of an intentional production."
  created: '2007-04-11 23:52:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> There\u2019s a third category\r\n\r\nSee my first post in this thread.\r\n\r\nBesides
    Mexica there's the infamous cluster of \"authentic\" German types\r\nmade during
    the Nazi reign. I think \"jackboot grotesk\" is the label for these.\r\nAlso,
    L Mandel seems to have often strove to create \"authentic\" French fonts.\r\nCertainly
    there's a style of lc \"a\" for example that occurs pretty much only\r\namong
    French designs.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-12 00:14:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Eben, I think Hrant is saying there\u2019s more to it than simple
    association or fleeting trends. </cite>\r\n\r\nWell put & 100% right.\r\n\r\nI
    think I am somehow being misinterpreted. I am not trying to deny locality and
    culture and history as a factors in type design. In fact quite the opposite. I
    am denying the role of nationality/race. All the specifics of culture and historical
    precedent is what I am suggesting exists instead. \r\n\r\nI am not saying for
    instance that there is no such thing as French type culture. I am saying that
    a type which distills it or part of it ( or tries to ) isn't more 'French' than
    another one as a result. Certainly if it does a good job it would have strong
    relation to the type culture of France. And really, you might have to be more
    specific still to really something meaningful. \r\n\r\nThis doesn't preclude having
    personal or even poetic associations or feelings about that type. But even those
    don't make a typeface 'french' or 'frenchier' than another. \r\n\r\nPut another
    way I think it's reasonable and even useful to say \r\n\r\n- 'This typeface feels
    more French to me than this one'. \r\n\r\nYou could also say:\r\n\r\n- 'I think
    people will find this typeface feels more French that this one'. \r\n\r\nAlso
    quite reasonable. Whereas saying: \r\n\r\n- 'This typeface is more French than
    this one' \r\n\r\n...is to my mind utter balerdash.\r\n\r\nSo: <cite> Will\u2019s
    comment reminds me that Menhart explicitly intended some of his typefaces to represent
    Czech character or culture.</cite>\r\n\r\n'Culture': yes, by all means. 'Character':
    if that means something inherent in Czech folk at birth then no. Absolutely not.
    If that means history & culture then again: Yes.  \r\n\r\nI realize that I must
    seem seem overwrought here, or like I am splitting hairs. But I really do think
    one lind of thinking is lazy, unspecific, messy & prone to nationalist racism
    hate  etc where the other is interesting, rich & deeply useful.\r\n \r\n<cite>
    Some of the signs would just make you sigh.  </cite> \r\n\r\nI like it when you
    say stuff like that."
  created: '2007-04-12 02:14:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I am denying the role of nationality/race.\r\n\r\nWhy? Those are groups
    just like any other. Groups have associations.\r\n\r\n> a type which distills
    it or part of it ( or tries to )\r\n> isn\u2019t more \u2018French\u2019 than
    another one as a result. \r\n\r\nHow can this make any sense?\r\nAnyway immediately
    following you contradict yourself.\r\n\r\n> inherent in Czech folk at birth\r\n\r\nI
    think you're assuming something like \"Czech\" can even have a fully reliable
    meaning. That said, peoples are different, and generalization is a powerful and
    useful -if/thereby also dangerous- tool.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-12 02:37:59'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Of course I enjoy seeing designers out of Germany using famous german fonts
    like Futura. And it gives me a very warm feeling to know that there are very famous
    font designers from Germany.\r\n\r\nBut of course for me Futura is a typical german
    font. And its not typical american. The US have their own fonts with a associtation
    to Amrica, but not the Futura. This is my opinion.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-12 10:14:13'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: 'I bet that your average American consumer would not look at Futura and think
    "Germany," even if the average German consumer would look at Futura and think
    "Germany." '
  created: '2007-04-12 10:55:48'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Sorry I missed that, Hrant. But I would split a hair and say I don\u2019t
    think Mexica was \u201Cintended for use as a national type,\u201D in the sense
    that its use be mandated. I think it is one type designer\u2019s attempt at his
    own idea of an expression of \u201CMexican-ness.\u201D\r\n\r\nAnd given the vibrant
    visual culture of Mexico, I think Mexica has little chance of \u201Cending up
    as a national type.\u201D\r\n\r\nAs to Menhart and his attempts at a \u201CCzech\u201D
    face: Gabriel Martinez Maeve is not at all shy about acknowledging Menhart\u2019s
    influence on him.\r\n\r\nI did root around the www and found some links to his
    faces:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.kimeratype.com/pdf/specimenMexica.pdf\r\nhttp://www.kimeratype.com/\r\n\r\nAnd
    thanks, Carl, for the reminder about Patzcuaro. I want to go out there one of
    these days on a trip south.\r\n\r\nIs there a Czech-Mex nexus shaping up among
    these faces by Maeve, Menhart, and Storm? Both cultures do really well with accordions
    and beer.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2007-04-12 14:47:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But Georg, and we've said this sort of thing before: it's not about you or
    me, it's about other people. The fact that Futura makes you think \"German\" has
    no bearing on how we need to use Futura, because we don't design for you! (Or
    me.)\r\n\r\n> Is there a Czech-Mex nexus\r\n\r\n:-)\r\nIn fact I once made such
    an abservation, but my term\r\nfor it was more boring - I called it the \"fauve\"
    style.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-12 15:04:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The US have their own fonts with a associtation to Amrica, but not the
    Futura. This is my opinion.</em>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rebel_4474.png]"
  created: '2007-04-12 15:18:52'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "What is the historical origin of the German music in Mexico? Is it Maximilian
    of Habsburg, or were there other influences? In any case, living in the San Francisco
    Mission, sometimes I can close my eyes and transport to a beer garden in Offenbach.\r\n\r\nFutura
    has been popular in the US since it was imported, so I also would say it doesn't
    hold a \"German\" association. \r\n\r\nThese days, unless a federal government
    officially adopted a typeface and kept using it everywhere for 50 years, I don't
    think many typefaces will gain national or local associations. The more languages
    they support, the farther they can travel. Meta is another 'German' typeface that
    now has a comfortable home in the US. \r\n\r\nI think comparing the differences
    in the work of Storm, Menhart and Tyfa exemplifies why it is shaky to try to intentionally
    develop a national or local type style. It's just limiting. If a style emerges,
    like the \"Dutch\" style, that's organic. "
  created: '2007-04-12 15:32:21'
- author:
    name: hoolia_d
    picture: 112385
  body: Ed Benguiat did Barcelona for the Barcelona Olympics and they used it left
    and right, I don't know about it on a national level.
  created: '2007-04-12 16:04:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> unless a federal government officially adopted a\r\n> typeface and kept
    using it everywhere for 50 years\r\n\r\nYou mean like FHWA/Interstate?  :-)\r\nIt's
    very American, and in more than one way.\r\n\r\nBTW, our Norbert Florendo once
    posted a riveting account of the development of ITC Barcelona on Typophile.* For
    one thing it wasn't designed for the Olympics there - that was much later. But
    in any case no self-respecting Catalan would call it Spanish.  ;-)\r\n\r\n* http://www.typophile.com/node/15401\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-12 17:05:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>You mean like FHWA/Interstate? :-)\r\nIt\u2019s very American, and in
    more than one way.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd also very Canadian, Australian, Malaysian,
    etc....where it is also the longstanding highway sign lettering.\r\n\r\nYou would
    need to add exclusivity as a qualifier."
  created: '2007-04-12 17:15:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Like I've said, a font can (and as a rule does) have more than one national
    association, but clearly in the case of Interstate it has a much stronger association
    with the US than any other nation. Saying it is as Malaysian as it is American
    is pure desert island delusion.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-12 17:16:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>saying it is as Malaysian as it is American is pure delusion</em>\r\n\r\nI
    can't speak for Malaysians, but as a Canadian I've never considered that typeface
    to be American, as it's on all the highway signs here. It was only with the release
    of Interstate that I discovered its origin was the US."
  created: '2007-04-12 17:21:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Read what I wrote to Georg up top.\r\nBut if we're speaking of personal perceptions:
    to me you're\r\nnot really \"Canadian\" in the most useful sense of the word.\r\n\r\n>
    I can\u2019t speak for Malaysians\r\n\r\nYou did above.\r\n\r\n> It was only with
    the release of Interstate\r\n> that I discovered it s origin was the US.\r\n\r\nBut
    obviously, since -I hope- we're shooting for laymen and\r\nnot ourselves, we're
    not talking about conscious knowledge.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-12 17:24:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>you\u2019re not \u201CCanadian\u201D in the most useful sense of the
    word</em>\r\n\r\nAlong with most of the rest of Toronto's population.\r\nSo I
    guess Los Angeles isn't an American city either?"
  created: '2007-04-12 17:47:49'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "\"Not Malaysian...\" \"Is Malasian\" \"Not Canadian in a useful sense of
    the word.\" \"Is Canadian.\" \r\n\r\nThis is all useless rubbish. You might know
    what you mean ( maybe - maybe not too ) but nodoby else can tell. Not really.
    They are just left guessing. \r\n\r\nNick you were bang on when you said:\r\n\r\n<cite>\u201CNational
    typefaces\u201D is a frequent Typophile topic. People are always trying to tag
    formal qualities as being specifically national, sexual, violent, whatever. It\u2019s
    a meaningless minefield, IMHO, but a good opportunity to voice one\u2019s opinions,
    as most people have strong feelings about nationality, sex, and violence.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    don't object to anyone expressing their feelings or opinions silly or otherwise.
    But my point is that's not the same thing as and certainly not as useful as saying
    for instance \"look at this lower case a, it is mostly found in french roman text
    faces and pretty much nowhere else\".  That's VERY cool.\r\n\r\nHrant : who do
    nominate as your archype of 'Candianness' anyway? Why? \r\n\r\nAnd is there really
    any point in answering that question? \r\n\r\n<cite>Is there a typeface that immediately
    makes you think of a particular country/nation?</cite> \r\n\r\nIn my case - no.
    I do associate Mistral with Montreal though. Oddly more bcause of an article in
    Eye Magazine than the eveidence of my own senses while I was there. I associate
    Johnston's Underground Sans Type with London. But for me these associations are
    pretty loose & getting looser all the time. \r\n\r\nThis doesn't mean however
    that I am not looking for a common thread that has made Type from Portugal seem
    to have some elusive fascinating flavor to me. I suspect that if I can find the
    source of that flavor, it will be a formally distinguishable factor or set of
    factors and not a essential vapour called 'Portugueseness'.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-12 20:37:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> nodoby else can tell.\r\n\r\nThat's OK, because nobody ever can anyway
    (for anybody).\r\n\r\nGorgias's #3: If anything is comprehensible, it is not communicable.\r\n\r\n>
    And is there really any point in answering that question?\r\n\r\nNo. Just like
    there's no point in saying \"Interstate\r\nis Malaysian\", because it's self-validating
    hogwash.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-12 20:44:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant, you don't know from hogwash.\r\nIf you lived in Malaysia, where apparently
    (I read it on the internet) they use \"Interstate\" for their highway signs, why
    would you think it was American, and not Malaysian?\r\n\r\nAnd irrespective of
    where it came from or who made it, surely its part of the cultural environment
    there?"
  created: '2007-04-12 21:23:10'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> ...part of the cultural environment </cite>\r\n\r\nThat is a claim
    that is vague but is at least semi-testable. You can ask some folks living threre.
    How does this type feel to you? Does it feel Foreign? or Malay? Or Is it a silly
    Question? You do that 100 or 100 times And bada boom you have a semireasonable
    sample of the public's attitude.\r\n\r\n<cite> That\u2019s OK, because nobody
    ever can anyway (for anybody). </cite>\r\n\r\nBut you can ask how they feel. No?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-12 21:56:26'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Actual federal government uses Eureka Sans. The previous administration used
    Frutiguer.\r\n\r\nwww.presidencia.gob.mx\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2007-04-12 22:09:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> And irrespective of ...\r\n\r\nAnd irrespective of everything else, surely
    the fact that Interstate makes Hrant Papazian think of the California Highway
    Patrol means that the best use of that font is for a coffee table book about rear-view
    mirrors, or a fashion guide that focuses or large moustaches and even larger sunglasses?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-12 22:20:16'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> even larger sunglasses </cite>\r\n\r\nYou could probably get that
    funded actually. ;-)"
  created: '2007-04-13 01:43:59'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Margaret\r\n\r\nDid you try searching typophile for this subject before posting?
    It comes up pretty often, so there will be quite a few old threads relating to
    this. Lots of opinions \u2013 very few facts \u2013 as this thread seems to bear
    out already.\r\n\r\n(shameless plug)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.100types.com/100types.com.map.html\r\n\r\nthese
    are not 'national typefaces', but a diagram showing the countries of origin of
    a small sample of typefaces. \r\n\r\nYes, there are typefaces that make me think
    of particular nationalities or cultures, and I have argued for this in the past,
    but it is SO subjective (see other posts above) that the statement I make at the
    bottom of that map page is as far as I would go with this, at the present time.\r\n\r\n{edit}
    as for coffee table books about American highway culture? Already been done mate;
    <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Pl8Spk-California-Vanity-Plates-Classics/dp/0062585061\">
    Pl8Spk </a>"
  created: '2007-04-14 07:49:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I always found it amusing that typefaces in the old designation of \"Egyptian\"
    style (heavy slab serifs on a monoline sans serif base) were so often used for
    subject matter involving Egyptology. Clearly, this type style did not come from
    Egypt--it was western. Yet the name caused western art directors to choose it
    for that subject. Again a case of a foreigners impression of what says something
    about a country tat may not be true for those who actually live there.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-14 14:13:07'
date: '2007-04-10 15:20:30'
title: national typefaces

---
