---
author:
  name: pablohoney77
  picture: 109996
body: 'okay, so i know that Mr. Frederick Nader is rather infamous on these forums,
  but i was cruising all my old font links today and noticed that he had a rather
  interesting article up on apostropic lab&#39;s website here: <a href="http://www.hardcovermedia.com/lab/articles/ot.htm"
  target="_blank">http://www.hardcovermedia.com/lab/articles/ot.htm</a> <BR>i was
  wondering if there had already been some discussion along these lines &#40;since
  i&#39;m new to these forums&#41; that anyone could point me to. I think Mr. Nader
  makes some interesting assertions and would love to read some further commentary
  on the topics addressed in this article. &#40;oh, and if you want a laff, check
  out the article on how many font designers it takes to change a light bulb, hilarious!&#41;'
comments:
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: What do I think of the article? I think that those readers who enjoy recreational
    drugs should ask him to share, since obviously he&#39;s got some pretty powerful
    stuff. <BR> <BR>Many of the assertions in this article are simply factually false,
    and many others are misleading at best. Plus he&#39;s got some axes to grind.
    The combination makes it pretty absurd. There are a couple of other folks out
    there who operate in a similar alternate universe, but luckily none of them are
    all that prominent. <BR> <BR>I seem to recall that there are some perfectly good
    points as well in there, but it&#39;s hard to distinguish them from the rubbish.
    I suppose I could go through it again... &#40;shudder&#41;. <BR> <BR>Regards,
    <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-02-25 00:09:20'
- author:
    name: pablohoney77
    picture: 109996
  body: LOL, I was hoping you would enlighten me, Thom, on which points were valid!
    The part that intrigued me, I guess, was the artist vs. the programer notion,
    just simply because i&#39;m not much of either! I realize that Mr. Nader&#39;s
    philosophy &amp; practices run contrary to the majority, but i was hoping for
    some level headed discussion about some of the issues he addresses, i realize
    that this article is written as a propaganda &#40;just check out that closing
    line!&#41; but can i just have some commentary on this to help sort out the facts
    sans the drama. &#40;I hate drama, unless it&#39;s a good classic tragedy&#41;
    So no name calling! I just want the facts and some good solid opinions. Or is
    that too much to ask?
  created: '2004-02-25 00:28:40'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Oh, fine, I&#39;ll dissect the article. <BR> <BR>First off, it&#39;s certainly
    true that with the &#42;current&#42; state of OpenType development tools, it takes
    a moderately technical mindset to develop feature-ful OpenType fonts with lots
    of goodies. <BR> <BR>That being said, one of the beauties of OpenType is that
    it frees the type designer from the arbitrary character set and encoding constraints
    of Type 1 and TrueType &#40;though at least TrueType had more flexibility on the
    language support side&#41;. Speaking as a designer, if I want to throw in just
    one extra ligature or a couple of alternate characters or whatever into my font,
    I can. <BR> <BR>The new technology doesn&#39;t remove the critical role of the
    type designer any more than any other type technology has done. To be sure there
    is a new kind of technical type development role, for people who know how to make
    OpenType features work, but the general category of technical type development
    roles as distinct from type designers has existed for at least a century, perhaps
    more. <BR> <BR>On to other stuff, from the top.... <BR> <BR> <BR>I disagree with
    Nader&#39;s opinion of how &#34;the user&#34; is the lowest common denominator
    and is responsible for the degradation of technologies and typography. If this
    were true, each technology would go downhill from the time of its introduction
    &#40;created by engineers and designers&#41; until being replaced by something
    else. In fact, each technology has generally improved steadily, being ever refined,
    until replaced by something else that offers some significant advantages, even
    though the new tech has some rough edges. Those rough edges are generally fixed
    over time. The first DTP was pretty bad in some ways, mostly due to resolution
    limitations. But it improved. <BR> <BR>Nader claims that OpenType makes it possible
    to do &#34;things like report usage statistics to the manufacturer through online
    connections, keep logs of certain things, conduct machine surveys, enforce usage
    parameters, and all kinds of actions that some people might consider malicious,
    intrusive, or reckless.&#34; <BR> <BR>This is almost entirely untrue. The only
    &#34;usage parameter&#34; existent in OpenType that I can think of is the fsType
    embedding bit, which specifies the type developers&#39; desires as far as how
    the fonts can be embedded. This is present in TrueType as well, so is not new
    to OpenType. The rest as far as I know is pure fantasy, but to whatever extent
    it is true it would be true only of TrueType flavored OpenType, and only to the
    exact same extent it&#39;s true of TrueType. <BR> <BR>&#34;Open Type technology
    itself is in fact so open that it is certainly possible to place a viral element
    inside a font, or make the font activate or deactivate system modules or, as has
    already been proven, even cause a machine to restart itself no matter what tasks
    are running or which work has been saved.&#34; <BR> <BR>Again, this is largely
    nonsense. Until recently, it was possible to make a font in any major format &#40;Type
    1, TrueType, OpenType with either kind of outlines&#41; that would cause Windows
    to blue screen or reboot. These security problems have been solved. However, there
    was nothing &#34;viral&#34; about it, it was simply bad fonts that could cause
    crashes. No self-replication or infection of any sort. Also nothing particularly
    unique to OpenType. <BR> <BR>However, I do think that Nader is largely right that
    if user&#39;s expectations go way up, it will be hard on type designers who have
    to produce a lot more glyphs. Today&#39;s better tools will reduce the time to
    add more glyphs, but it&#39;s still a noticeable extra amount of work. It is not
    clear to me that this change will happen, as there are an awful lot of existing
    typefaces that do not have tons of extra goodies, and many of those don&#39;t
    particularly need to be extended to a bigger glyph complement. <BR> <BR> <BR>
    <BR>I mostly disagree about the comments about IP. These are at most extensions
    to existing works, not clones or knockoffs. The comparisons made here are inappropriate.
    <BR> <BR>Nader&#39;s claims about Lithos are misleading at best, as Carol was
    personally involved in the extensions to her design. The &#34;figure variations&#34;
    are not oldstyle figures, but simply smaller versions of the full-size figures,
    to go with the small caps. Adobe does generally credit the people who do major
    extensions to typefaces, which is why Myriad Pro now lists Fred Brady and Christopher
    Slye, who did the Myriad Pro Cyrillic and Greek coverage &#40;respectively&#41;
    with Robert Slimbach as art director. <BR> <BR>I agree that as type tech advances
    there have been tradeoffs and we&#39;ve had to give up things to gain other things.
    But what almost always happens is that some of those things that have been sacrificed
    are able to come back as the next generation of technology improves. <BR> <BR>The
    speculation that the &#34;underground&#34; might somehow as a group tend to outdo
    the above-ground developers in typographic innovation is pretty laughable to me.
    After all, the average shareware font has significantly less than a full Win-ANSI
    or MacRoman character set. Probably a few people will do some very cool stuff,
    but the existence of cool technology won&#39;t change the average state of shareware.
    How many superhinted TrueType fonts have you seen as shareware? <BR> <BR>The last
    section &#40;&#34;what are we sacrificing?&#34;&#41; is pretty fantastical to
    my mind, and hardly worth commenting on. <BR> <BR>So, those are my thoughts. <BR>
    <BR>Regards, <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-02-25 01:49:45'
- author:
    name: pablohoney77
    picture: 109996
  body: hey thom, thnx for humoring me. it&#39;s nice to be able to sepaprate the
    fact from the fantasy. i guess i shoulda picked up better on the whole &#34;sci-fi&#34;
    vibe of that &#34;article.&#34; <BR>I for one am excitied about the capabilites
    of OpenType, but am on the steep end of a learning curve &#40;as you can well
    atest to my ignorance in naming proceedures!&#41; but i think with some help from
    you guys on the boards i might be able to figger it out someday! <BR>
  created: '2004-02-25 03:00:12'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Oh, just further on the Lithos Pro nonsense: I double-checked, and Carol
    did the Greek herself, and oversaw the small caps development. <BR> <BR>Cheers,
    <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-02-27 00:56:43'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: I can&#39;t get myself to think about this too much but I&#39;ll add that
    <BR>OT development is not hard. It just takes some patience and <BR>willingness
    to part with the FOG dinosaur. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m often miffed by this. It&#39;s
    the old model if you ask me.  <BR>Other desingers &#40;web, interactive etc.&#41;
    change all the time. <BR>Often weekly.  <BR> <BR>I knew I shouldn&#39;t have looked
    at the Nader thing...
  created: '2004-02-27 14:04:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Carol did the Greek herself <BR> <BR>Does it look too white as well?
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-02-27 16:38:16'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: 'Frederick Nader seems to have buried some good point. Certainly within his
    passion is elements of truth. '
  created: '2004-02-27 19:01:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; adding idiotic symbols <BR> <BR>Like ornaments? <BR> <BR>&#62; Or Greek,
    I know nothing of Greek. What, I am going to design them a typeface? <BR> <BR>Certainly,
    there are no Greek type designers out there. Greek doesn&#39;t need fonts anyway.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; At least in English we don&#39;t use accents as a crutch. <BR>
    <BR>Instead the pronounced mismatch between the spelling and the pronunciation
    is a permanent crutch for many users of English. I don&#39;t like accents either,
    but they would certainly make English writing less idiotic. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-02-27 19:09:11'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Gerald, I disagree. <BR> <BR>Opentype has made so-called &#34;fine typography&#34;
    accessible for the people, and not only those that speak English. &#40;I think
    the trend for making fonts for the world and not just the few that speak English
    is a positive trend in the world of typography.&#41; I see nothing wrong with
    that.  <BR> <BR>It has also made some of the minutiae of typography a little easier.
    I also see nothing wrong with that. At the end of the day, even with opentype
    fonts, the designer/typographer still has to futz with the spacing, decide smallcaps
    or italic, choose a weight ... and on and on and on ...  <BR> <BR>Even though
    the font software might be cross-platform, I doubt the licenses allow for twice
    the installs. Each install counts as an install. I personally don&#39;t think
    that is one of the greatest features. It doesn&#39;t benefit me, as I don&#39;t
    use PC computers. &#40;Not that there is anything wrong with PC computers&#41;.
    <BR> <BR>Another thing about accents ... Accents are part of the cultures of other
    languages, aren&#39;t they? It would be boring and sad and safe and bland to castrate
    those languages which depend upon accents and make them conform to a so-called
    preferred &#40;more bland&#41; looking page. <BR> <BR>I wish I did speak another
    language. &#40;I only speak enough Italian to get myself into trouble.&#41; If
    I did speak another language it would be to embrace the differences, not to find
    the similarities.
  created: '2004-02-27 19:16:57'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: Gerald - <BR> <BR>I&#39;m not with you my man. <BR> <BR>Accents are as important
    as ever, especially with the opening <BR>up of Europe etc. OpenType, Fontlab and
    Python make this <BR>easy stuff. Again, patience.  <BR> <BR>As for boating, I
    like to canoe.
  created: '2004-02-27 20:10:12'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: 'Tiffany <BR> <BR><i>Another thing about accents ... Accents are part of the
    cultures of other languages, aren&#39;t they?</i> <BR> <BR>I am extremely sensitive
    to accents. That is why I am not arrogant. I was teasing. Most fonts do not have
    well made accents. When they do, it is often for &#34;one language only&#34;.
    You must live, read and speak the language of a country to determine what is right
    for the language. You must know the people, their history.  <BR> <BR>Not to mention
    that some countries have their own political aspects about language, such as the
    Estonians. History has been unkind to languages, book burnings and keyboards forced
    upon them. What I was indicating is that if we try to make all things for all
    people why not we all have our head shaved at the same time? Why not have only
    one model of car, one type face? Where do you stop. Where is Barbie, where is
    Ken? <BR> <BR>Open Type&#39;s inclusions is <i>defined by its exclusions.</i>  Making
    culture the orphan of economy. And they ask for consent? <BR> <BR>I believe designers
    from different countries should speak more strongly at the protection of their
    mother tongue alphabets. And for god sakes folk, this donuts on top of  the '
  created: '2004-02-27 20:21:23'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Gerald, I&#39;m glad you were teasing. It kinda took me by surprise.  <BR>
    <BR>I understand your points, and I do agree with there being &#34;no global &#39;one
    size fits all&#39;.&#34; I don&#39;t hope that all type becomes open type, but,
    I&#39;m happy with the type that has become OT. <BR> <BR>Admittedly, I know very
    little about the engine. I shop by exterior shape and color. And if it happens
    to come with a Turbo, I&#39;m not going to complain.  <BR> <BR>Doesn&#39;t it
    make some things easier, OT I mean, in the production for all languages?
  created: '2004-02-27 20:31:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Open Type leads away from these considerations. <BR> <BR>Actually,
    from what I understand OpenType is language-sensitive. <BR>So you can have your
    Polish acute steeper than the Fench acute. <BR> <BR>Nothing is perfect, but OpenType
    is far less imperfect than the ASCII-7 straightjacket that&#39;s been the norm
    for so long. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-02-27 20:33:46'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Hrant, <BR> <BR>Do you plan on doing it both ways? Or better would it not
    be that Adobe and the font vendors give open license? What is your thought. Or
    should type designers learn all languages, live in all countries, learn all histories.
    <BR> <BR>Sounds great. Where is my suitcase? Send me the tickets. Maybe I will
    go learn Greek. <BR> <BR>But I do hope your theory is correct.
  created: '2004-02-27 21:02:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Or better would it not be that Adobe and the font vendors give open
    license? <BR> <BR>What does that mean? <BR>Are you saying that third-parties should
    provide mechanisms for you to support various scripts without you having to know
    the details? I think that&#39;s expecting too much. I&#39;m just happy they so
    often provide the &#34;raw&#34; information, like MS does with their Character
    Design Standards and such. <BR> <BR>&#62; Or should type designers learn all languages,
    live in all countries, learn all histories. <BR> <BR>They should know the culture
    they&#39;re making fonts for as best they can. This doesn&#39;t have to include
    being fluent in a language btw. If you have the skill and talent you can make
    decent -if not culturally very significant- fonts for languages just by looking
    at existing designs. It requires a certain mindframe, but it&#39;s entirely possible,
    and not even highly uncommon. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-02-27 21:14:34'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: '<i>They should know the culture they&#39;re making fonts for as best they
    can. This doesn&#39;t have to include being fluent in a language btw. If you have
    the skill and talent you can make decent -if not culturally very significant-
    fonts for languages just by looking at existing designs. It requires a certain
    mindframe, but it&#39;s entirely possible, and not even highly uncommon.</i> <BR>
    <BR><i>and not even highly uncommon.</i> Feeling brave are we? <BR> <BR>The problem
    with that theory is that most fonts are based on type faces historically supplied
    by large font vendors, such as Monotype, Linotype? Or large foreign foundries.
    If you were going to make a Finnish type face, you would have to work a little
    harder than that. They don&#39;t have one except carved in stone. <BR> <BR>What
    the Finnish designers have found is this. They wish to use a typface but the accents
    are wrong. They have approached the vendors and been told they can not open up
    and alter the typeface. Then they have asked if the vendor would provide the font
    with alterations. Answer no. <BR> <BR>Source is the question. Present source and
    past source is provided by vendors which think how you think.  <BR> <BR>Hence
    this sort  of thing '
  created: '2004-02-28 06:08:59'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: '&#62; Open Type&#39;s inclusions is defined by its exclusions. Making culture
    the orphan of economy. And they ask for consent? <BR> <BR>What on earth does that
    mean? <BR> <BR>&#62; ... Open Type leads away from these considerations. <BR>
    <BR>That&#39;s simply false. The older font formats lead away from these considerations.
    OpenType actually has mechanisms to deal with them, unlike Type 1 or classical
    TrueType. &#40;AAT/GX may also have means of dealing with these issues; I don&#39;t
    know.&#41; <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-02-28 06:09:25'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: 'Thomas, <BR> <BR>One of the big problems with Open Type can best be described
    as this. <BR> <BR><i>a. &#40;ppem size is 3 50&#41; AND &#40;difference between
    the rounded linear width and the rounded instructed width '
  created: '2004-02-28 06:30:14'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Gerald: <BR> <BR>Yes, font format specs are incomprehensible to normal humans.
    This is unfortunate, but does not doom the font formats. The part you are quoting
    is a part of the OpenType spec that is also part of the older TrueType spec. This
    density of programmer-speak did not stop TrueType from being successful. The Type
    1 spec is only a little better, not much. Have you tried reading it? <BR> <BR>&#62;
    Also I get sick of hearing how you simply insert tab &#34;a&#34; into hole &#34;b&#34;
    and voila! <BR> <BR>Sometimes that&#39;s how it works, at the normal-person level
    of explanation. If you want to understand it at the programming level you will
    have to put some real time and effort into understanding the underlying technologies.
    Maybe start by attending some of the workshops and seminars that keep on happening
    at ATypI and other venues. <BR> <BR>&#62; By the way can you send me a sample
    of Adobe&#39;s Finnish version of accents? That would put my mind to rest. <BR>
    <BR>Why? The question of whether anyone will bother to do such culturally-sensitive
    work is quite independent from what is or is not enabled by the technology. <BR>
    <BR>The main case like this I can point to at Adobe is that all of our Cyrillic
    fonts have italics where three or four characters have quite different alternate
    forms for Serbian than for other Cyrillic languages. The fonts use the locale
    feature to specify these alternates. <BR> <BR>I believe that Adam Twardoch has
    used the locale feature to create various language-specific accent forms in some
    fonts he&#39;s worked on. But you should ask him on that score. <BR> <BR>As for
    optical size, there&#39;s no question that the multiple master solution was the
    best one going in digital typesetting. It&#39;s a shame that OpenType&#39;s &#39;size&#39;
    feature is not nearly as versatile, and requires separate fonts. You won&#39;t
    get any argument from me that OpenType has the best solution in this area. I will
    say that it&#39;s better than nothing, and that Adobe&#39;s type group continues
    to care about optical size scaling. <BR> <BR>Regards, <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-02-28 07:02:37'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Adam,  <BR> <BR>Thank you. <BR> <BR><i>Yes, font format specs are incomprehensible
    to normal humans.</i>  <BR> <BR>Especially the artist.  <BR> <BR>&#62; By the
    way can you send me a sample of Adobe&#39;s Finnish version of accents? That would
    put my mind to rest.  <BR> <BR><i>Why? The question of whether anyone will bother
    to do such culturally-sensitive work is quite independent from what is or is not
    enabled by the technology.</i> <BR> <BR><b>I take that as, a no-wanna-do!</b>  <BR>
    <BR>So here we have this culturally sensitive engineering crusade claiming the
    linguistically abused can preserve their own type nuances. The same crusaders
    dismiss the Finnish language as trivia. <BR> <BR>No monkey see, monkey do. <BR>
    <BR>About my quoting True Type, it is included in the format. I would have chosen
    something more specific, such as, Open Type Tables, however I have no way of opening
    Word documents. Sorry, I am such a Luddite. <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-02-28 08:46:54'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: '&#62; So here we have this culturally sensitive engineering crusade claiming
    the linguistically abused can preserve their own type nuances. The same crusaders
    dismiss the Finnish language as trivia.  <BR> <BR>Baloney. I never dismissed any
    language as trivia. Adobe has not yet done language-specific accent variants,
    but that does not mean it will not do so in the future. <BR> <BR>I wasn&#39;t
    giving you heck for quoting TrueType, merely making the point that <i>all</i>
    font format specs are pretty impenetrable, so using the impenetrability of one
    of them as an argument against that format <i>in particular and compared to others</i>
    is pretty much indefensible. <BR> <BR>&#62; To forbid linguistic cultures to alter
    then refuse to supply them with their needs is clearly, a take it or leave it
    mentality. Not culturally enlightened, sorry. It is just as hideous as book burning.
    <BR> <BR>Here you&#39;re speaking of licensing issues. Adobe is one of the few
    foundries that has long historically allowed modifications of its fonts. However,
    it&#39;s true that the current EULA does not explicitly permit the kinds of modifications
    that you want folks to be able to do. I have made a proposal internally to change
    the EULA in this regard, but I don&#39;t know when or if that will occur. <BR>
    <BR>Regards, <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-02-28 18:02:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thomas, a question on Optical scaling. If I remember rightly, John Hudson
    mentioned that in principle Open Type has the capacity of coding in such as way
    that InDesign would automatically choose a different size-sensitive design, depending
    on the point size you chose. Is it  correct that such a linking can be done? Has
    it been done or are there plans to do it?  '
  created: '2004-02-28 20:25:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; automatically choose a different size-sensitive design <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve
    actually figured out a way for this to happen automatically with no participation
    from the app at all! Now I just need somebody to pay me to implement it. <BR>
    <BR>&#62; I have made a proposal internally to change the EULA in this regard
    <BR> <BR>Cool. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-02-28 21:43:46'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Thomas. <BR> <BR>I am not ignoring you, I appreciate your remarks. I think
    I have a better way to state my complaint. Maybe I am missing something. Maybe
    you can help me find it. <BR> <BR>But it is too late in the day now, I will leave
    it until the morning. <BR>
  created: '2004-02-29 18:28:58'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Thomas, <BR> <BR>Good morning from Finland. <BR> <BR>You said <i>I never dismissed
    any language as trivia. Adobe has not yet done language-specific accent variants,
    but that does not mean it will not do so in the future.</i> <BR> <BR>Well, it
    is a problem, that and licensing. To be honest I have not adjusted <i>Finnish
    accents.</i> I don&#39;t know what to do with them. There is not much you can
    do with two dots other than make them smaller, or bigger, or move them up down,
    over, closer or wider between. Those small adjustments make a big difference.
    <BR> <BR>Had the Finnish artisans completed, or where not over ridden by foreign
    influences their alphabet was taking a life of it very own. The second <i>upper
    case A</i> was not defined by two dots, &#40;I hate to use the right name, you
    understand&#41; <i>but became an upright Italic lowercase a.</i> That was the
    direction their alphabet was taking. The <i>uppercase</i> was early traditional
    classical <i>roman,</i> very remarkable work by the way. <i>&#34;Pre-printing&#34;</i>
    in structure. There was no lowercase. However, strangely there was a complete
    upright italic, <i>&#34;printing in structure&#34;</i> Aldine in considerations.
    <BR> <BR>But let me back up a bit. The G, was no more than a C with a very kerned
    &#34;small cap &#40;i&#41; &#34; next to it. I don&#39;t know Finnish, what I
    do know is they have trouble with the G&#39;s in my name. <BR> <BR>How did the
    original model for the alphabet find its&#39; way to Finland? I am not speaking
    of the transition, I am speaking of the original forms, which are intact. Some
    thoughts are promoted for instant consideration. Sailing, the Finns are swarthy
    seamen for sure. Foreign occupation. And others. What others? The Church, sleigh,
    skiis, skates. Not an easy exercise because remember, the <i>roman</i> without
    the <i>lowercase,</i> the <i>italic fully developed.</i> That indicates separate
    influences. <BR> <BR>The <i>roman with no lowercase</i> indicates very early,
    as does the upright Aldine Italic, but later.  <i>&#40;I use Aldine to describe.&#41;</i>
    Dutch Foundry Italics leaned towards a sloping italic, which sailed its way to
    influence the English, hence the very sloping Caslon italic.  <BR> <BR>The italic
    I speak of is not of Dutch influence. <BR> <BR><b>Transitional Influence</b> <BR>
    <BR>What is the influence for the Finnish <i>&#34;transitional introductions to
    the alphabet?&#34;</i> Dare I suggest, the <i>&#34;Finnish mother tongue&#34;.</i>
    <BR> <BR>I was very honoured to have found the Ramsay Stones. For me it was like
    walking through a language, alphabet cathedral. The stones covered a period of
    time, illustrating within walking distance, an orderly sequence of transitional
    development. All dated.  <BR> <BR>Also if you have any thoughts these works were
    work of inferior hands you would be delighted to see how wrong you would be. Especially
    one  them. The work is exemplary. <BR> <BR>This is truly a transitional phase
    I am speaking of, independent of any I have seen elsewhere. Furthermore, it would
    have better suited the Finnish language. <BR> <BR>This is why I seem so fanatical
    about languages maintaining independence <BR> <BR>The French find sacred things
    in their spoken language, they find merit in Garamond. Quebec has language police.
    Jail time for abusers. <BR> <BR>I see nothing wrong with that. <BR> <BR>So for
    me, I would rather go back and pick up where the Finnish artisans left off. Since
    only an <i>uppercase roman</i> exists, but they were introducing <i>italic lowercase</i>
    forms for variable sounds, the same approach would probably have resulted in reverse
    when they got around to a lowercase roman. That is my guess, or where I would
    have taken it. <BR> <BR>Rather than bump dots around. But that is just me. <BR>
    <BR>In any event, had I viewed the Ramsay Stones first, Bodoni 26 would have looked
    much different. <BR> <BR><a href="http://lanstontype.com/Bodoni26.html" target="_blank">http://lanstontype.com/Bodoni26.html</a>
    <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-03-01 10:22:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; &#34;Optical Scaling&#34; out trumps musical ligatures. <BR> <BR>But
    Gerald, after all these years, why do none of your fonts have optical scaling?
    <BR> <BR>BTW, I think optical scaling is indeed more important than ligatures,
    but it&#39;s less important than multilingual support &#40;which OpenType is great
    at&#41;. The reason is that you can always simply use <i>separate</i> fonts for
    different sizes! Only other designers would really mind... <BR> <BR>&#62; Adobe
    has not yet done language-specific accent variants, <BR>&#62; but that does not
    mean it will not do so in the future. <BR> <BR>The problem, of course is that
    there has to be money in it. That&#39;s anti-cultural. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-01 19:42:40'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: <b>Thomas</b> <BR>As for optical size, there&#39;s no question that the multiple
    master solution was the best one going in digital typesetting. It&#39;s a shame
    that OpenType&#39;s &#39;size&#39; feature is not nearly as versatile, and requires
    separate fonts. You won&#39;t get any argument from me that OpenType has the best
    solution in this area. I will say that it&#39;s better than nothing, and that
    Adobe&#39;s type group continues to care about optical size scaling. <BR>
  created: '2004-03-01 19:51:37'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Hrant, <BR> <BR><i>But Gerald, after all these years, why do none of your
    fonts have optical scaling?</i> <BR> <BR>We had optical scaled fonts in 1987.   <BR>
  created: '2004-03-01 19:54:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Pay these chaps off <BR> <BR>I&#39;m not really very materialistic,
    but I&#39;m not a philanthropist either. Some ideas are rarified enough that they
    need to be leveraged for my material profit. This one is nothing - you should
    hear about my Tamagochi killer &#40;but you won&#39;t until I get a preliminary
    patent on it&#41;. <BR> <BR>BTW, what I&#39;m talking about I&#39;ve actually
    mentioned -although only in a related form- on Typophile before. But good luck
    finding it - you see, it&#39;s a good thing I&#39;ve made so many posts!  :-&#41;
    <BR> <BR>&#62; We had optical scaled fonts in 1987. <BR> <BR>So can we have a
    link? Or are those just for naval themes? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-01 20:03:35'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: No links Hrant. <BR> <BR>Type Three fonts. <BR> <BR>For a matter of record
    we were not the first. ATF was. I am sure somewhere you will find archived how
    our optical scaled fonts crashed the entire system for Aldus Freehand&#39;s booth
    at Seybold. <BR> <BR>As I once mention we accomplished optical scaling with hinting.
    Aldus made the mistake of installing the printer font. As you can see, you really
    didn&#39;t need the printer font. You only needed the hinting font and an alias
    in the extensions folder for the screenfont. I think it was the extensions. <BR>
    <BR>Do you think Type 3 will make a comeback? Does Open Type support Type Three
    fonts? <BR><a href="http://lanstontype.com/StoneGrinders.html" target="_blank">http://lanstontype.com/StoneGrinders.html</a>
    <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-03-01 20:24:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; we were not the first. ATF was. <BR> <BR>Yes, I know about Kingsley&#39;s
    attempts. <BR>&#40;BTW, do you know of any former employees who might be liable
    to spill the beans?&#41; <BR> <BR>But if you were second or third, please do show
    some evidence. You know, like fonts for sale that feature optical scaling. Or
    even not for sale. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-01 20:33:34'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: 'Hrant,  <BR> <BR>&#40;BTW, do you know of any former employees who might
    be liable to spill the beans?&#41; <BR> <BR>Yes, but Henry probably want to make
    a buck or two. I would call them much more than attempts. ATF made high quality
    fonts. Not many of them, not my taste, but well made. <BR> <BR>Hrant, I am in
    Finland, I did not even bring my books. So at the moment that is not possible.
    I am returning briefly to Vancouver March 21st. If you are serious I will look
    for a &#34;floppy&#34; with the fonts. You realize we had a tidal wave and my
    belonging were greatly reduced. Also I was in the hospital and was not part of
    the packing when I moved. So it is pot luck what is there. And if I had anything
    to do with the move the last thing I would have dragged along is a salt damaged
    floppy. So if it is there it is only because my wife did not know any better.
    <BR> <BR>So I will look for you. Possibly one of my ex-employees has one kicking
    around. I will ask them as well. '
  created: '2004-03-01 20:52:45'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Hrant, <BR> <BR>And one more thing. I am not going to look just to prove something
    to you. I will only look if you think we can do something with it. <BR> <BR>So
    before I bother wasting my time, tell me that you might find use for it. Otherwise
    I will not bother. <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-03-01 20:58:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Henry probably want to make a buck or two. <BR> <BR>Henry who? What&#39;s
    his email? I might start by telling him that the money isn&#39;t what it used
    to be. <BR> <BR>&#62; I would call them much more than attempts. <BR> <BR>But
    from what I understand they were all single-master fonts, at least what was released.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; If you are serious I will look for a &#34;floppy&#34; with the
    fonts. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m always serious. My idea of fun isn&#39;t meant for this
    place and age. <BR> <BR>Somebody who thinks so much of optical scaling would have
    more than a salty floppy preserved, I hope. But please do find what you can. At
    the very least it would be part of a conference presentation this year. But it
    could very well find its way into the &#34;real world&#34; as well. <BR> <BR>BTW,
    Type3 doesn&#39;t support hinting. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-01 21:07:31'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Type 3 also isn&#39;t supported in OpenType, nor is it supported in any common
    WYSIWYG form &#40;it never worked with ATM, and Display PostScript is hardly widespread&#41;.
    <BR> <BR>It apparently was possible to do things akin to hinting in Type 3, as
    long as you created the infrastructure from scratch. That is, Type 3 doesn&#39;t
    have any intrinsic understanding of hinting the way Type 1 does. <BR> <BR>In any
    case, I think the chances of Type 3 making a comeback, rounded to the nearest
    whole number as a percentage, are zero. <BR> <BR>&#42; &#42; &#42; &#42; <BR>
    <BR>As for the question of national preferences in accent structure, I think what
    is lacking is a single central listing of what the various national preferences
    are. For instance, I know that Polish favors very steep acute accents on the lowercase,
    because there are no grave accents in Polish. But if I were to recommend doing
    language-specific variant accents, I&#39;d want to do them across the board for
    a bunch of languages, not just Polish. <BR> <BR>If we do try to catalog this info,
    I suggest a different thread. Or maybe even using the ATypI mailing list, which
    has a stronger international readership. <BR> <BR>&#42; &#42; &#42; &#42; <BR>
    <BR>William and Gerald: Yes, OpenType as a format already has scaled optical sizes
    with the ability to handle them as well as lead type. This isn&#39;t as elegant
    as what was possible with MMs, but is still something. All of Adobe&#39;s fonts
    that have optical size variants have been set up with this feature. <BR> <BR>However,
    almost every OpenType layout feature is dependent on support from elsewhere. In
    the case of optical size, no application has chosen to support the feature as
    yet. InDesign does support automatic use of the optical size axis in MM fonts,
    but does not yet make use of the OpenType layout feature for optical size. <BR>
    <BR>T'
  created: '2004-03-01 23:32:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; It apparently was possible to do things akin to hinting in Type 3 <BR>
    <BR>Interesting. But why would they have used T3 instead of T1? Maybe because
    T1 was still a closed format back then? Anyway, now we have TT with its quantum
    advantage in hinting power. <BR> <BR>&#62; I know that Polish favors very steep
    acute accents on the lowercase, because there are no grave accents in Polish.
    <BR> <BR>I&#39;m not sure about that &#34;because&#34;. Steep accents were the
    norm in early French printing too, and they have both. <BR> <BR>&#62;  InDesign
    does support automatic use of the optical size axis in MM fonts <BR> <BR>Really?
    Wow, I had no idea. <BR> <BR>Can somebody remind me why making MM fonts now &#40;I
    mean for a third-party&#41; is a bad idea? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-01 23:41:29'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Yes, this was probably before Type 1 was an open format. Or in situations
    where people wanted to do something odd that was not supported in regular hinting
    in Type 1 &#40;like use hints for optical size scaling?&#41;. <BR> <BR>Making
    MM fonts now, as an end-user consumable, is a bad idea because they clearly have
    a very limited shelf life. Adobe has stopped selling MM fonts, and we expect to
    make an announcement fairly soon about how long we intend to continue supporting
    them for in our products. Non-MM Type 1 support will doubtless continue for years
    after Adobe stops selling them. MMs are not going to be so lucky. <BR> <BR>Of
    course, Adobe alone wouldn&#39;t be your sole determining factor. But I wouldn&#39;t
    want to place any bets on MMs still being supported in future Mac and Windows
    operating systems 3-5 years from now. <BR> <BR>Regards, <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2004-03-01 23:56:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; they clearly have a very limited shelf life. <BR> <BR>But InDesign
    support by itself is a big deal, because people who are sensitive enough to typography
    are good targets for both InDesign and MM. And wasn&#39;t InDesign released <i>after</i>
    MM was demoted? <BR> <BR>BTW, is it true that the PDF font-matching technique
    &#40;like in Adobe Serif and Sans&#41; relies on MM technology? Doesn&#39;t this
    mean de facto support for MM will take a while to abate? <BR> <BR>Anyway, to me
    even just 3 years is a long time. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-02 00:30:41'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Basically the feature had already been implemented before the decision was
    made not to do more MM development. <BR> <BR>It&#39;s true that there are several
    bits of technology that use MM internally, such as Acrobat&#39;s font fauxing.
    But that isn&#39;t the same as support for end-user MM fonts. <BR> <BR>Multiple
    master technology, or something much like it, is still a wonderful development
    tool, and has other uses in &#34;private&#34; ways that are internal to an application
    such as Acrobat. But those uses are separate from general system-level support
    in the OS. <BR> <BR>It&#39;s up to you if you want to keep on making MM fonts.
    I&#39;m not making any commitments on a minimum time for future support, just
    being very clear that those days are definitely numbered. <BR> <BR>Regards, <BR>
    <BR>T
  created: '2004-03-02 02:54:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;InDesign ...does not yet make use of the OpenType layout feature for
    optical size.  <BR> <BR>Is this planned for the next upgrade of InDesign? <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-02 03:50:38'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: Two things. <BR> <BR>[1] As for the question of national preferences in accent
    structure, I think what is lacking is a single central listing of what the various
    national preferences are. <BR> <BR>As a hopeful type designer, I would find this
    immensly useful, as I intend for my typefaces to be as inclusive as possible.
    Anybody know anything much about this? <BR> <BR>[2] Can somebody remind me why
    making MM fonts now &#40;I mean for a third-party&#41; is a bad idea? <BR> <BR>I
    have only just started playing around with MM, but from what I have experienced
    with the format and in regards to it&#39;s future potential I think it is a bit
    of magic for type design. If Adobe drops it, will FontLab &amp; Co still implement
    the option to design using MM technology? Generating instances is a Godsend. <BR>
    <BR>kris.
  created: '2004-03-02 05:13:27'
- author:
    name: gln
    picture: 110168
  body: Thomas <BR> <BR><i>Non-MM Type 1 support will doubtless continue for years
    after Adobe stops selling them. MMs are not going to be so lucky.</i> <BR> <BR>I
    just want to clarify what is meant about the support you refer to for MM fonts.  <BR>Does
    that mean that the font will not be recognized by InDesign or Illustrator or just
    the feature of of optical scaling will not be recognized. <BR>Since I have all
    the MM fonts from Adobe and use them daily without using the optical scaling feature
    I am a little concerned about the support. you refer to. <BR> <BR>Thanks for your
    reply, <BR>gln
  created: '2004-03-02 08:41:37'
- author:
    name: saccade
    picture: 110388
  body: When I began using type, I started with MM. It&#39;s wonderful how you can
    work with optical scaling. <BR> <BR>I cannot understand why that technology has
    been given up. Optical scaling on OT, even the Adobe Opticals aren&#39;t nearly
    as fine.  <BR> <BR>I would wish very much, to have a technology that makes it
    able to use fonts that have their own optical specifics over 6 or 8 sizes &#40;or
    more&#41; like in ancient lead-type, combined with the ease of working with a
    computer and for example InDesign, that does it automatically. <BR> <BR>So a good
    quality of type could return. <BR> <BR>With MM that was possible &#40;a good worked
    font provided of course&#41;. Some &#40;or most?&#41; optical axes had non-linear
    scaling measures, and so a very fine adjusting to optical issues was possible.
    <BR> <BR>The few &#34;opticals&#34; of OT-Fonts are far away of that skill. <BR>
    <BR>I would wish that these possibilities would come back. With MM or OT or something.
    <BR> <BR>Michael
  created: '2004-03-02 09:10:28'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: 'William and Gerald: Yes, OpenType as a format already has scaled optical
    sizes with the ability to handle them as well as lead type. This isn&#39;t as
    elegant as what was possible with MMs, but is still something. All of Adobe&#39;s
    fonts that have optical size variants have been set up with this feature.  <BR>
    <BR>However, almost every OpenType layout feature is dependent on support from
    elsewhere. In the case of optical size, no application has chosen to support the
    feature as yet. InDesign does support automatic use of the optical size axis in
    MM fonts, but does not yet make use of the OpenType layout feature for optical
    size. <BR> <BR>So how do we read this? <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-02 12:32:35'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: MM as a font development tool is a big part of our work flow. I&#39;m holding
    on to Illustrator 10 since the new CS does not contain any MM controls. So I hope
    so long as AI10 works, I&#39;ll have MMs. <BR> <BR>That said, I can understand
    their demise. Most art directors and designers I have worked with have no idea
    what a MM font is. When I have brought a new design to them in MM format so they
    can get a better idea on the range of weight that are possible, they are, what&#39;s
    that English idiom, Gobsmacked.
  created: '2004-03-02 13:25:12'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: The subject of MM abandonment has come up on Typophile before. <BR><a href="http://typographi.ca/000706.php"
    target="_blank">Here is a summary.</a>
  created: '2004-03-02 15:20:24'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'I do recommend following the link back to the original discussion, since
    my full post &#40;Oct 8 2003&#41; also discussed the compatibility/information
    issue, which I think was also significant. <BR> <BR>Gerald: <BR> <BR>The optical
    size feature is explained clearly in Adobe&#39;s FDK documentation, and supported
    by the FDK &#40;which is a no-cost download from Adobe.com&#41;. I am not 100%
    certain, but I don&#39;t think it is supported by FontLab at this time, so it
    might be a good feature request for them. Don&#39;t know about FontMaster. <BR>
    <BR>I don&#39;t know that we&#39;ve bothered covering this in any of our workshops,
    since it is really very simple compared to a lot of aspects of OpenType, it&#39;s
    something that only a minority of font developers are interested in, and the details
    are mostly specific to our FDK tool, which few people are using since FontLab
    is a much more integrated environment. <BR> <BR>As for support for the feature
    in InDesign, I am of course generally not allowed to comment on features for future
    versions of Adobe applications. <BR> <BR>Regards, <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-03-02 20:25:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; only a minority of font developers are interested in <BR> <BR>That
    will be changing this year. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-02 22:02:43'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: '<i>InDesign ...does not yet make use of the OpenType layout feature for optical
    size.</i> <BR><b>Is this planned for the next upgrade of InDesign?</b> <BR> <BR>He
    did write <i>yet</i>, now didn&#39;t he? :-&#41; <BR> <BR><i>InDesign does support
    automatic use of the optical size axis in MM fonts</i> <BR><b>Really? Wow, I had
    no idea.</b> <BR> <BR>Yes, another interesting point: the only app that can make
    use of MM fonts on Mac OS X is Adobe InDesign. I wish the people who continually
    accuse Adobe of &#34;abandoning&#34; MM knew this. <BR> <BR><b>Can somebody remind
    me why making MM fonts now &#40;I mean for a third-party&#41; is a bad idea?</b>
    <BR> <BR>Yes, absence of Unicode support. AAT variation fonts are a better way
    to go at this point. More on AAT soon.'
  created: '2004-03-03 03:56:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; AAT variation fonts are a better way to go <BR> <BR>Even with no Windows
    support? Dunno... <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-03 04:30:17'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Hrant: <BR> <BR>You think that by the end of this year, a majority of type
    designers will be interested in making fonts with optical size variation? You
    must be much more of an optimist than I am. Why the surge of interest now when
    there have been good technologies for it for over a decade? <BR> <BR>Then again,
    I agree with you that AAT, as a fundamentally Mac-only technology, is not very
    interesting. Too bad, because it would be interesting in almost every other respect.
    Of course, if Apple had licensed AAT to Microsoft a decade ago, things might be
    very different.... <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-03-03 07:30:16'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: I&#39;m not saying AAT has much of a chance. I&#39;m saying it has more life
    left in it than Type 1 MM. You disagree? <BR> <BR>Make no mistake... I recommend
    MM designers release fonts as single-master OpenType. But if they must have axes,
    they might as well have Unicode too.
  created: '2004-03-03 12:40:17'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: 'OK, I got it now: <BR> <BR>A better way to put it is that AAT is more interesting
    than Type 1 MM in the same way that Ralph Nader is more interesting than Lyndon
    Larouche.'
  created: '2004-03-03 15:38:02'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: One of my first jobs in NYC was working at a type shop that was owned and
    run by Mr Larouch&#39;s followers. Obviously one of the big accounts in the shop
    was for his U.S. Labor Party &#40;I don&#39;t know what he calls his party today&#41;.  <BR>
    <BR>Now that was interesting!  <BR> <BR>They still use a cover format I designed
    over 20 years for their EIR &#40;Executive Intelligence Review&#41; magazine.
    They were cheap then and must still be.
  created: '2004-03-03 15:58:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; You think that by the end of this year, a majority of type designers
    <BR>&#62; will be interested in making fonts with optical size variation? <BR>
    <BR>No, no - not a majority - just enough to build up motivation for better font
    creation app support in 2005. The main reason is that the 90s are over. <BR> <BR>But
    yes, I&#39;m a certified hopeless optimist. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-03 16:07:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;I don&#39;t know what he calls his party today <BR> <BR>You may have
    lost track of him during his five years in jail for fraud. Larouche is running
    for US President as a Democrat. If you do a google, you will find that his critics
    are somewhat divided on whether he is a Fascist or neo-Nazi.    '
  created: '2004-03-03 16:23:11'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I remember his followers were quite devoted. It was an opportunity to watch
    cult behaviour up close. There were only a few of us working there that did not
    belong to &#34;the party&#34;.
  created: '2004-03-03 17:29:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; optical size variation <BR> <BR>Speak of the devil: <BR><a href="http://typographi.ca/000794.php"
    target="_blank">http://typographi.ca/000794.php</a> <BR> <BR>&#40;Or as we say
    in Armenian: &#34;Shounuh hisheh - payduh kasheh&#34;, &#34;Remember the dog -
    pull the stick&#34; - no idea what the hell that&#39;s supposed to mean.&#41;
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2004-03-03 18:08:16'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Folks, <BR> <BR>I feel like I have abandoned this thread. But for now I am
    getting ready for my trip to the US. <BR> <BR>I will look for the software that
    created the Lanston optical scaled fonts, better that then obsolete font products.
    The engineers are more likely to have the code. If they have anything. Also, my
    chance of looking through what I do have will be later. I have a project. <BR>
    <BR>Also it seems, I could be wrong, that ATF did not sell their fonts in individual
    sizes, but they too sold a single scalable font, which contained individual optical
    scaled sizes within. <BR> <BR>Hrant, I will send you a note when I get a chance.
    <BR> <BR>
  created: '2004-03-04 10:08:15'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: BTW, in reference to earlier discussion about EULAs permitting modifications,
    it turns out that Adobe is explicit about allowing fonts to be modified -- it
    just is in the &#34;Licensing FAQ&#34; instead of in the EULA per se. <BR>See
    &#60;<a href="http://www.adobe.com/type/browser/legal/pdfs/fontfaq.pdf" target="_blank">http://www.adobe.com/type/browser/legal/pdfs/fontfaq.pdf</a>&#62;
    <BR>
  created: '2004-03-04 17:23:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Gerald, thanks! I&#39;ll be waiting anxiously. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2004-03-04 18:52:59'
- author:
    name: deh
    picture: 110304
  body: 'I suspect this is the URL that Thomas meant: <a href="http://www.adobe.com/type/browser/legal/pdfs/FontFAQ.pdf"
    target="_blank">http://www.adobe.com/type/browser/legal/pdfs/FontFAQ.pdf</a>'
  created: '2004-03-04 20:24:16'
date: '2004-02-24 23:58:06'
title: Has this article already been discussed?

---
