---
author:
  name: kosal
  picture: 109775
body: Are there any resources out there for good bezier drawing guidelines? I notice
  that most fonts try to use orthogonal tangent points as much as possible. If I were
  to draw the curve pictured, which would be the better way to go?
comments:
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "In theory the right, HOWEVER...\r\n\r\nFor a lot more see  http://www.logofontandlettering.com/"
  created: '2007-04-12 19:47:45'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "It took me some time to find it on the new site, but here it is. The official
    Type1 Specs:\r\nhttp://partners.adobe.com/public/developer/en/font/T1_SPEC.PDF\r\n\r\nIt
    has all the information you need.\r\n\r\nRalf\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-12 20:10:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hinting plays a role in point placement for type unlike normal Adobe Illustrator
    drawing.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-12 20:26:07'
- author:
    name: kosal
    picture: 109775
  body: I'm making my drawings in Fontlab.
  created: '2007-04-13 14:36:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "T Bones, the posts at 'Typies' are useful only if you don't take them too
    seriously, as they can also be seriously misleading. As one person notes in reply
    to your second link at the site, intermediate points and unbalanced handles may
    be desirable to get the right curve. You will find such things regularly in the
    fonts of masters like Matthew Carter, who says he doesn't hesitate to break such
    'rules'. \r\n\r\nAs I understand it--and my understanding is definitely limited--things
    like crossed handles are really the only things that are going to mess up your
    font in the sense of causing it to crash. \r\n\r\nThe other 'rules' relate either
    to what is a 'good' or 'sweet' curve, or to hinting. \r\n\r\nOn the hinting issue,
    the Adobe rules explicitly say that you don't need extrema points at something
    like the terminal on the e. Also there is something called 'flex' hinting and
    also placement of 'blue zones' that relate to drawing. \r\n\r\nI would be happy
    if someone would lay out what is really helpful and not in terms of what drawing
    rules in these three areas:\r\n\r\n1. What Bezier drawing mistakes may cause your
    font to not work or crash.  \r\n\r\n2. What is advantageous for 'good' curves.
    Here inevitably will be guidelines, rather than hard and fast rules.\r\n\r\n3.
    What rules will facilitate or harm hinting, both for roman and italic fonts. \r\n\r\nAs
    it is, it seems to me the 'rules' are problematic, and it is not clear what is
    needed for what. "
  created: '2007-04-13 15:17:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Here is Galliard's italic D to illustrate:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Galliard
    ital D_4686.gif]\r\n\r\nYou will notice the intermediate point at the bottom right.
    It's not clear what makes a handle 'unbalanced' according to De Gregorio, but
    here all the handles are unequal in length. The red arrows mark the four places
    where there are 'missing' points at the extrema.  "
  created: '2007-04-13 16:23:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It seems to me, from my but 3 years in the game, that italics have their
    own set of rules when it comes to extrema. It is just too damn difficult to get
    a smoothe transition from a straight to a curve with a slanted stem. You have
    to weigh the value of \"The Rule\" against the sweetness of the curve. It also
    helps a bit if italic glyphs are drawn above the 1000 unit limit. Since handles
    have to fall on the grid, doubling the resolution to 2000 or 2048 makes italics
    more aminable.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-13 16:39:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "William,\r\nYou will notice that the unequal arms of the handles of your
    Galliard D on the right would become close to equal if the \"so called\" extra
    point were removed from the lower right. This would of course add a bit of a bulge
    on the lower quadrant and probably why he put that point there to begin with.
    \ As an experiment, draw a circle and then delete the points at the left and right.
    This would give you a near circle drawn with only 2 points. Note where they end
    by placing a blue vertical guide where the arms of the handles extend. Now put
    an extrema on the right half where the red arrow says you need it. Now notice
    that the two arms of the 2-point circle that had stuck out well beyond the extrema
    before, now have shortened to well inside the extrema. This shows the effect of
    adding another point between two.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-13 16:49:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Two point circle with guide showing arm length\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2pointCircle_6637.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-13 17:06:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Add point at right extremma and see arm length cut itself in half:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/addExtrema_6234.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-13 17:07:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Now add \"extra point\" as in your Galliard\u2019s italic D above and see
    unequal arm of right extremma point occurr:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/addXtraPoint_4650.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-13 17:09:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Now notice where the bottom extrema's right arm has cut itself in half (red
    guide) after adding the \"extra point\". \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/armHlves_3964.png]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-13 17:12:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Notice that the curves have barely changed at all in any of the above example
    but adding or deleting points changes handle lengths. If a point is added mid-way
    between two existing points on a perfect circle, the handle length reduces by
    half.\r\nBallancing lengths of arms must take into accounct the length of the
    adjacent arcs, not just the handle arm lengths.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-13 17:16:06'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "William,\r\n\r\nBe aware that the outlines from ITC Galliard are not likely
    to have been drawn by Matthew himself. The design came out long before Adobe first
    digitized it. I'm not completely sure, but it might be true that Carter and Cone's
    version of Galliard (with slightly longer descenders) is Carter's handiwork. That
    would be one to examine. That, or more recent designs which he digitized himself.
    \r\n\r\nThe leftmost Font Audit arrow isn't pointing to a missing extrema point,
    it's flagging a curve constructed poorly; one handle is doing all the work and
    overextends the box or boundaries of a curve. The curve above (while missing an
    extrema point) is correctly constructed; the one at lower left is a good example
    of how not to make a curve. Notice how it bows in, narrowing the stem where it
    ought to be tapering out. "
  created: '2007-04-13 17:16:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, the handles for the top arc of the D are also not equal. Also when
    I deleted the intermediate point, the arms were still significantly unequal. More
    to the point, when I first pasted a copy of the glyph into mask I could see that
    the new curve overshot the old one both ways: first moving inside, then crossing
    over and going outside. \r\n\r\nAnd if you've played with this kind of situation
    you know you \"can't get there from here\": you can't get to the same curve with
    the nodes in those locations, and no intermediate point. So then you'd have to
    move the bottom node to the left, which would mess up the bottom arc leading into
    the serif.\r\n\r\nSo basically, Carter knew what he was doing: this was the only
    way to get the curve he wanted. \r\n\r\n\r\nJust checking the Roman of Galliard,
    he doesn't seem to use intermediate points, but he does have many places with
    no extrema. "
  created: '2007-04-13 17:59:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Carl, I cross-posted with yours. \r\n\r\nInteresting that the bezier drawing
    might not be his--but I would be interested to learn definitely if this isn't
    just what he wanted. I have heard Carter distaining the 'rules' and the current
    font does work. (Can anyone check the Carter & Cone version?) \r\n\r\nAs you rightly
    point out, the lower left arrow of FontLab's 'audit' is flagging an 'unnecessary
    inflection', not a missing extremum. It does flex in a way that many would not
    choose, but again I still wonder if Carter didn't want it that way. \r\n\r\nBy
    the way Adobe Garamond's italic Cap D also has an intermediate point at the same
    place, and four 'missing' extrema. And certainly Slimbach is following or maybe
    setting the Adobe standard.\r\n\r\nSo far as I can remember, Slimbach never does
    a situation where one of the handles, if extended, would cross the other on the
    same curve--the 'unnecessary inflection' situation. I don't have the chutzpah
    to do this violation either, but I wouldn't be surprised if Carter does. "
  created: '2007-04-13 18:42:51'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I doubt he would; based simply on the design; the orderly and regular stem
    and serif weights, and the rich bracketing of Galliard don't call for such illegal
    situations. If you look at the letter at a large size, this dent in the lower
    left is very uncharacteristic of the design. See the corresponding Roman shapes,
    or other Italic cap stems. Keep in mind that this is one of the earliest typefaces
    to be digitized; done in the infancy of PostScript. These could be artifacts of
    that time. \r\n\r\nI very much believe that the outlines in ITC Galliard are not
    digitized personally by Carter. I can confirm this in the next few days. "
  created: '2007-04-13 19:14:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"you can\u2019t get to the same curve with the nodes in those locations,
    and no intermediate point. So then you\u2019d have to move the bottom node to
    the left, which would mess up the bottom arc...\"\r\n\r\nWilliam you missed my
    point completely. Put the points wherever you \"see\" them. I was not saying that
    intermediate points were a no-no. I was just indicating that the \"equaled arms\"
    rule was not always to be followed. Actually, only when symetrical arcs connect,
    should it be done. I was trying to indicate that you cannot just write a rule
    without including all the factors. As a matter of fact, I have gotten to the point
    where I don't bother with any such rules and just draw curves. When I am done,
    what is amazing is that I get very few little red arrows and know that those I
    can ignore because I know what is going on.  I can just draw faster and more freely
    without overanalizing operational technique. I allow my eyes to be trained and
    then trust them. \r\n\r\n\"Zen and the Art of Archery\" is still a good book and
    teaches much more aboutdoing things than rule books with recipies for success
    or failure.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-13 19:22:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "William,\r\nIt is hard to explain online but I do alot of copying my glyph
    to the mask layer and then releasing points in the front layer and the adjusting
    the other arms before I replace the deleted points. Some time you might come over
    and I'll show you what I mean.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-13 19:31:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">William you missed my point completely. \r\n\r\nChris, sorry I wasn't clear.
    I was addressing the 'rules' of De Gregorio and not your statement.\r\n\r\nThe
    only thing of yours that I was taking issue with was where you said: \"You will
    notice that the unequal arms of the handles of your Galliard D on the right would
    become close to equal if the \u201Cso called\u201D extra point were removed from
    the lower right.\"\r\n\r\nIn fact, if you do this one arm is 15% longer than the
    other, and the arms on the top arcs are even more different in length. I thought,
    wrongly it turns out, that you were defending the stuff about \"imbalanced\" handles
    in the De Gregorio piece. \r\n\r\nAs to how you play with the intermediate points
    and mask it sounds similar to what I do, but I'd love to come and watch you at
    work for a bit. \r\n\r\nLet me see if I can do a 'Muzzer' on the De Gregorio piece.
    \"It's a load of old rubbish, mate! Take it out and bury it!\""
  created: '2007-04-13 20:03:06'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "There's a way in FL to grab the curve itself, with shift held down, and slide
    both nodes around. It can be awkward, so it's best used while zoomed in close.
    This is very useful in creating nuanced curves with fewer points. The general
    suggestion to have balanced handles is a starting point from which you can then
    refine curves greatly, while staying within the bounds of proper PS technique.
    If you ever need to replicate a curve with fewer points, this technique is excellent.
    It is what I use to get the curve I want in situations like the lower right Galliard
    D, where there's an extra point. Only if the curve isn't satisfactory will I then
    add a point. \r\n\r\nFor more about Galliard, check Typophile node 6833. "
  created: '2007-04-13 20:13:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think you still need a few lessons from Muzzer but I get the idea --I think
    he would have cut De Gregario to the quick in about half as many words and still
    had time for some of the brown stuff :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-13 20:15:36'
- author:
    name: ktinkel
  body: "This is C&C Galliard italic D. Quite a few more points than the ITC/Adobe
    version.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ccgalliard_D_5664.png]\r\n\r\n\r\n--Kathleen"
  created: '2007-04-13 21:16:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks Kathleen, that's really interesting. \r\n\r\nIt seems to confirm Carl's
    view that Carter didn't do the ITC version's Bezier curves. And also that the
    'unnecessary inflection' is a mistake. \r\n\r\nHowever, it even more seems to
    confirm that intermediate points can be a 'good thing'. I wonder whether this
    might have so many intermediate points because it was converted from a true type
    version? \r\n\r\n>to grab the curve itself, with shift held down, and slide both
    nodes around. \r\n\r\nI regularly in smoothing curves try grabbing a node with
    the shift on, and then slide the node with both handles fixed. Carl, are you saying
    that there is a way to grab two nodes and keep the four handles fixed? I don't
    quite understand what you are describing, though it sounds interesting. When I
    click on the curve itself with the shift on it turns red and I can move the whole
    curve as a rigid piece. Is that what you mean?\r\n\r\n>to have balanced handles
    is a starting point\r\n\r\nNow you're talking. \r\n\r\n>proper PS technique\r\n\r\nAh,
    that is the issue. I think that is what Koleslaw was asking about. Is there a
    good summary anywhere? Any wisdom you want to pass along?\r\n\r\nPS Congratulations,
    Carl, on the TDC award for Beorcana. Well deserved!\r\n "
  created: '2007-04-13 21:29:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "William,\r\nYou have to grab the cuve segment and drag thus pushing one handle
    and pulling the other.  This works just like Adobe Illustrator direct select tool
    when adjusting the curve. You do not select the handle or points, just the segment
    between. There is kind of a delicate touch you soon learn which moves the path
    without selecting it. Putz with it a few minutes, it will come to you.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-13 22:16:32'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Thank you William, it's very nice to have all that work recognized. \r\n\r\nI
    probably won't be able to pinpoint exactly how you get this result, platforms,
    versions and all, but I'm on a Mac with FLS5.02. Without Shift down, you can click
    on a curve and drag, causing the BCP handles to swivel all over the place; this
    might be useful sometimes, but holding down shift constrains the handles in their
    current direction (typical constraint from the Shift key). The result is that
    both BCPs slide out (smoothly) from the endpoints, and depending on where you
    move your mouse, the curve adjusts dynamically. This is like what you describe
    above in Shift-selecting a single node, except you are touching the curve, and
    both nodes move. It feels rather uncontrollable, which is why I suggest zooming
    in on the curve; more fine control and a better view of the results. This is a
    situation where you want a copy of the existing outline in the mask layer to compare
    with, since the changes can be very subtle. Try touching the curve in different
    places; there's a better place to grab that gives you more control - typically
    in the middle of the curve. "
  created: '2007-04-13 22:25:47'
- author:
    name: kosal
    picture: 109775
  body: "Thanks for the insight, everyone. I found Vag Rounded's ampersand has the
    sort of curve that I needed. A quick outline in illustrator revealed that drawing
    #2 is the way to go. My original question was basically on priority. Fewer and
    angled tangents vs. more but orthogonal ones. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/vagamp_5624.gif]"
  created: '2007-04-13 23:08:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Got it Carl, thanks. When you shift + click on the curve and then let go
    of the click, then it lights up red and you can move it as a whole. But when you
    shift, then click on the curve and *hold down* the mouse button, then dragging
    the mouse (or trackball in my case) does as you say. \r\n\r\nAnd it looks useful--thanks!
    \r\n\r\nNot to sing the same old song, but I don't think that's in the manual
    :) "
  created: '2007-04-13 23:21:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I came across the drag technique by assuming it would work like Illustrator
    and was pleasantly surprised that it did.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-14 01:13:10'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "<em>My original question was basically on priority</em>\r\n\r\nI've always
    worked to the general principle that fewer points are better \u2013 in any Postscript
    artwork, not just in glyph drawings \u2013 so I agree with Carl about <em> Only
    if the curve isn\u2019t satisfactory will I then add a point. </em>\r\n\r\nHaving
    said that, the C&C Galliard 'D' that Kathleen posted was what I would <em> expect
    </em> to see in terms of point number and placement, rather than the earlier ITC
    Galliard 'D' that William posted \u2013 the comparison between the two is very
    informative.\r\n\r\nAnd I've lost track of the number of times I've heard art
    directors say 'but can't you make the curve sweeeeeter...?'"
  created: '2007-04-14 06:55:44'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Shouldn't this be in the Build section?
  created: '2007-04-15 05:03:03'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: '[Edit]'
  created: '2012-08-05 17:06:12'
date: '2007-04-12 19:42:37'
title: Bezier question

---
