---
author:
  name: Plaintype
  picture: 111000
body: "hello,\r\n\r\ni'm working on a catalog, which will have the german text and
  the according english translations side by side. i'm currently using \xABguillemets
  fran\xE7ais\xBB (respectively for german typesetting the \xBBother\xAB way round).
  for the english translations, however, it even does not seem to be an alternative
  option to do so.\r\nbut before having different looking quotes, i'd like to ask,
  whether it is allowed by any reason to use these quotes in english texts.\r\n\r\nopinions?\r\n\r\n\r\n//alex"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Using guillemets for English text is extremely rare - I've only seen it like
    twice.\r\nBut I think it's also extremely NICE! Please don't give up on it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-14 01:05:56'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Depends on what you mean by \"allowed\": is it suggested by any English-language
    style guide in North America? Nope.\r\n\r\nI think you might get some direction
    from looking at classical recording liner notes: as an example, I've pulled out
    my 1983 (remastered 1997) Teldec recording (0630-18952-2)  of Handel's <em>Messiah</em>
    that has notes in English, French, and German.  The French and German quotes use
    guillemets as you've specified, but the English use \" -- the North American ones,
    not the British.\r\n\r\nWhile I will agree with Hrant that they look nice, you
    risk confusing your readers if you use them: FWIW, I wouldn't, but YMMV."
  created: '2007-04-14 02:14:25'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "I speak fluent French and am fairly comfortable in German, and therefore
    use the guillemets in both directions as you mentioned above (and in French, use
    them almost every day). \r\n\r\nHowever, even though I am very fond of those languages
    and <strong>adore</strong> using the guillemets for their shapes and the strong
    associations that they carry for me, I agree with Linda. \r\n\r\nIf you are addressing
    an audience that is not very familiar with European languages, they will be confused.
    If you are addressing Europeans, won't they <em>also</em> be confused, because
    they will be expecting to see the \u201C \u201D symbols? \r\n\r\nTo my eye --
    and thinking about how skillful design can support and underscore the language
    -- it seems perfect to set these things \xBBauf deutsch\xAB and \u201Cin English\u201D
    to give each language its strongest flavor. Oder?\r\n "
  created: '2007-04-14 02:52:04'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: If I wasn't interested in type, I would probably be confused when I saw guillemets
    in Dutch texts. I agree they usually look pretty nice, but I agree with Bruce.
  created: '2007-04-14 03:04:15'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: The only context where I would consider doing something like that seriously
    is if I was making a catalog of french or german stuff for sale and I was seeking
    to signal the french or german feeling of the good s in the text. And then only
    if I thought my audience was going to 'get' the joke. Actually if I was doing
    something maybe an art piece where I wanted to deliberately make the english major
    type crazy I would be all over the bird's feet then too. Or for a punk-emo-hystrionic
    CD/album cover.... But yeah, if I was really trying to sell stuff to americans...
    I wouldn't do it.
  created: '2007-04-14 03:12:02'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "This is really surprising to me. I did desktop publishing for 5 years at
    a translations company and worked with language producers from both Germany and
    France, among other countries. We <strong>never</strong> set German quotation
    marks using guillemets -- we used curly quotes (set in reverse order, of course).\r\n\r\nWe
    only used guillemets when typesetting French, never for German <strong>or</strong>
    English."
  created: '2007-04-14 03:12:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: It might be a good idea to ask the client what they prefer; particularly if
    you decide to go with the guillemets and do no not want to change them later.
  created: '2007-04-14 03:17:17'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: During the time (1976-77) that I spent studying with Friedrich Neugebauer,
    and assisting him on projects, he <em>always</em> used the reverse guillemets.
    Personal preference, perhaps? A more Austrian usage? Something harkening back
    to ur-times?
  created: '2007-04-14 03:20:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I didn't get into the \"allowed\" business because the way I think and live
    that tends to not work out for me. :-)  But I was sort of implying that it's so
    extremely rare because people totally don't expect it. <cite>On the other hand</cite>
    how much confusion are you really liable to cause? Especially in a bilingual book
    - not your average boondocks lit. And if there is any confusion, would it last
    more than half a minute?\r\n\r\n> give each language its strongest flavor.\r\n\r\nI'm
    all for that, it's just that the English quotes are so lame when\r\nit comes to:
    spacing; and differentiation with the apostrophe.\r\n\r\n> doing something like
    that seriously\r\n\r\nWell one of those places I've seen guillemets used in English
    is a pretty \"serious\" work: G Knuttel's \"The Letter as a Work of Art\", set
    exquisitely in De Roos Roman.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nGuys, come on: live a little!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-14 03:36:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A couple of previous threads related to this topic, including a look at a
    highly\r\nfascinating hybrid between quotes and guillemets, which I call quotemets...\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/13581
    _\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/20061\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-14 03:52:13'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "The \"guys\" might want to, but frankly, us practical women would rather
    not p*ss off or confuse the readers.  ;-)\r\n\r\nC'mon, Hrant, there's a time
    and a place for paddling upstream (and this ain't it!): that you've managed to
    cite a grand total of <em>one </em>really specialized and/or serious book that
    uses guillemets in English proves to me that the \"rule\" is there for a reason,
    and the breakage thereof is the obvious (and needed) exception."
  created: '2007-04-14 03:54:25'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "For a long time the long s was a rule, too. But eventually a few important
    individuals synchronously decided to ditch it, and made English a little easier
    to deal with in the process. Don\u2019t even get me started on the various indications
    of new paragraphs that have come and gone. Who knows, maybe swapping our quotes
    for guillemets is a shift whose time has come?\r\n\r\nOf course, if the clients
    are not willing to pay for it, the point is moot ;)"
  created: '2007-04-14 04:43:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Come on, Linda, that sort of mentality leads to total stasis - you know that.\r\n\r\nSure,
    you shouldn't try to change a \"rule\" on a whim, and there are better and worse
    places to try such a change, but this really seems like a decent place to nudge
    things in a better direction. For a designer it's almost a cultural responsibility
    to push the envelope, isn't it? Otherwise it's just another office job.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-14 04:59:31'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Guys can be practical, too, Linda.  :-)\r\n\r\nWithout <strong>any</strong>
    innovation there <strong>would</strong> be stasis, Hrant, but this is a question
    of common practice, and of what 99% of the English-speaking and -reading populace
    expect.\r\n\r\nAnd can I quote a guy whose name gets thrown around a lot here
    on Typophile as part of some sort of quasi-biblical Triumvirate?  ;-D\r\n\r\n<em>\"Single
    and double guillemets are widely used as quotation marks with the Latin, Cyrillic
    and Greek alphabets in Europe, Asia and Africa. Attempts to introduce them into
    North America have met with only slight success.\"</em>\r\n\r\n<em>--The Elements
    of Typographic Style, by Robert Bringhurst, version 3.1, page 310</em>"
  created: '2007-04-14 05:52:18'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I should also say that I really like the way they look for pullquotes and
    would tollertate them well there - but I would find them distracting is running
    text.
  created: '2007-04-14 05:56:28'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "By the way, having said what I said above, I love the idea of rounded guillemets
    and Hrant's cool name for them, quotemets.\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2007-04-14 05:58:26'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I'm not saying <em>never</em>, but I just don't see this one going the way
    of the great auk anytime soon.\r\n\r\nThere just isn't a plausible rationale for
    it, for starters.  Heaven forfend, I've pushed envelopes all my life, and not-so-long-ago,
    gave a client a total of 22 choices for using their address in publications.  That
    there were slim rationales for ten of those, and only legitimate (and, I might
    add, legal postage regulation) choices for two, I merely shrugged when they picked
    \"something else.\"\r\n\r\n(That they couldn't even be bother to be consistent
    with their choice is what led me to bail out of what you might label as <em>just
    another office job.</em>)  :-)\r\n\r\nThere's bleeding edge, and then there's
    just plain dumb -- using guillemets for English is, right here and right now,
    the latter, IMO."
  created: '2007-04-14 06:02:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Common practice is for common things. So I guess it depends on how common
    Alex's project is, or rather should be. That depends on a few things, not least
    Alex.\r\n\r\n> what 99% of the English-speaking and -reading populace expect.\r\n\r\nWell,
    99% of readers don't expect a new font, but we still make them.\r\nReally, it's
    not just what they expect, but what [we think] they need.\r\n\r\n> \"Attempts
    to introduce them into North America\r\n> have met with only slight success.\"\r\n\r\nI'm
    curious, where would one see these attempts?\r\n\r\nEben, their lower degree of
    distraction (after the initial -and I feel short- period of... acostumbration
    :-) is the main reason I like them! In fact in the case of those quotemets I remember
    I actually didn't notice them at first - and I'm a font freak!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-14 06:10:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> There just isn\u2019t a plausible rationale for it\r\n\r\nSure there is;
    in fact there are two - which I've mentioned:\r\n1) No confusion with the apostrophe.
    Think of a plural possessive in quotes, like this: \"dogs'\". This is especially
    true for the British practice of using single quotes.\r\n2) Better spacing - fewer
    distracting and ugly gaps, especially next to punctuation, like a period or comma.
    You know those funny typesetting rules that say a period or comma should be inside
    the quotes (even if it doesn't make content sense)? Those rules are in place to
    reduce crappy spacing. Plus fewer collisions, like after an \"f\".\r\n\r\nI wouldn't
    suggest changing something simply for novelty.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-14 06:17:03'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em> > \u201CAttempts to introduce them into North America\r\n> have met
    with only slight success.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019m curious, where would
    one see these attempts?</em>\r\n\r\nHe doesn't say, Hrant. That's part of the
    glossary entry for \"guillemet,\" in the back of the book. He goes on to say how
    they should be used in French, German, etc."
  created: '2007-04-14 06:54:30'
- author:
    name: Plaintype
    picture: 111000
  body: "wow, so many posts over night. thank you for all the aspects you are bringing
    in.\r\n\r\nregarding eben sorkin's first post, i should mention, that it is an
    art catalog, which is actually selling nothing but the artist himself. it's a
    documentation of a rather weird performance. i added a slight historical touch
    to the design and that's also a reason, why i intend to use guillemets as quotes.
    although it is less common, it is an option, when setting text in german language
    (i guess, it is rather unsuitable for scientific texts or other highly official
    stuff).\r\nin spite of hrant encouraging the use of guillemets in english language,
    i see, that for most english speaking people it seems so unfamiliar, that they
    will point fingers at me (\"don't you know, you mustn't use these quotes!\").
    and, well, using hybrid quotes in the height of the minuscules would easily be
    even more confusing, wouldn't it? i guess, i stick to the official quotes, though,
    i might change my mind, if there showed up more \"references\" for the usage of
    guillemets in english literature.\r\n\r\n// alex"
  created: '2007-04-14 13:28:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> they will point fingers at me\r\n\r\nThink carefully about who that \"they\"
    is, and\r\nyou might realize They don't matter too much.\r\nAnd some of those
    They will even say: \"Wow\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-14 15:15:25'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Since it is for an artist ( not selling chairs ) then I suddenly think you
    might have grounds for using them - depending on if they related to what the artists'
    work is about & depending on if you want the text to be integrated with the work
    in some way or if you want it to be transparent/supportive/subordonate etc. Does
    that make sense to you?
  created: '2007-04-14 16:09:57'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I think it also depends what the \"art\" is -- I've got a great T-shirt from
    a boutique press on Saltspring Island that has their name made up using alt and
    accented letters: I'd expect to see guillemets used on it!\r\n\r\nBut if it's
    not specifically/hardcore type-related, I highly doubt the intended audience would
    \"get it\"....  \r\n\r\nIt's also a nice, and rather subtle, way of indicating
    which text to read, particularly if you're using one font for all three languages.
    \ \r\n\r\nMake things easy for the audience, and they'll be more likely to buy
    the art.  ;-)  Friend of mine teaches a class in marketing for artists, and I
    know that's one of his mantras...."
  created: '2007-04-14 17:37:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> It\u2019s also a nice, and rather subtle, way of indicating which text
    to read\r\n\r\nThat's a good point. A great, sad example of how language\r\ndifferentiation
    can be totally shot is Emil Ruder's book.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-14 17:55:51'
- author:
    name: Plaintype
    picture: 111000
  body: "there is a text part, which includes preface, summary and explanation of
    the work, interview and the english translation of the script (dialogs).\r\nthe
    original german dialogs are directly integrated into the image part, which has
    a collage-like look. quotes appear rarely in the script, but a few are in there.
    so it is basically the real text part, which, for instance, sometimes features
    extracts from the script.\r\n\r\n// alex"
  created: '2007-04-14 18:13:13'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Beacause the quotes will appear intermittently and are not integral to what
    your doing I think that the choice to use the feet won't look all that deliberate.
    If you were using a short quote from the artist at the top of every other page
    then it might seem deliberate. Do you see what I mean? So yeah, I would now say
    just use the english style quotes.
  created: '2007-04-15 00:41:07'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Of all the gazillion of lines of type I've designed / set, I've only used
    guillemets with English once. It MADE the piece. I just wish I had a tear sheet
    of it.\r\n\r\nMaybe this is one of the two things Hrant has seen. Circa 1990;
    cannot recall the product name, but I do know it was an ad for a shampoo made
    by a midwestern company. The main feature of the ad was a sultry dame on a bar
    stool, all legs, smirk, and hairdo. The art director had succeeeded [by some lights]
    in giving her a \"European\" look, but we struggled with the type for days.\r\n\r\nFinally,
    switching to Friz Quadrata, I set a version with guillemets around her sassy words.
    I saw the success immediately, but we did play around with the direction of the
    guillemets, pointing them in different directions in different versions. This,
    of course, did not matter; it was a short ad in English, and the assumption was
    that readers would not care about these matters, but would recongize the asserted
    European-ness of the product, and then be aware that their sex lives would be
    remarkably enhanced if they scrubbed with this stuff.\r\n\r\nI did have to instruct
    several levels of art directors, creative directors, and client managers just
    what the hell those funny marks were, though.\r\n\r\nThat's one instance where
    this can work. Otherwise, I'm with the cautious ones -- in general.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2007-04-15 03:58:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Will, I'm pretty sure I missed that shampoo ad.  :-)\r\nIt sounds tantalizing
    though! You know, I mean those stems and bowls...\r\n\r\n> I did have to instruct
    ...\r\n\r\nGood insight (if pretty sad).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-15 04:15:18'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "But not terribly surprising, unfortunately....\r\n\r\nWish I had caught that
    ad too, Will -- FQ is one of my fave faces."
  created: '2007-04-15 04:32:05'
- author:
    name: gthompson
    picture: 109676
  body: "If it's only going to be you doing it on one job then it's probably not a
    good idea. Readers will be confused.\r\n\r\nHowever, guillemets do look better
    and rules are made to be broken. If you can recruit some other designers \u2014
    like people here \u2014 form a group, issue a press release about why you're doing
    it and then all of you do it on all your design jobs from now on it might become
    a major shift in design style. Or a curiosity in the history of type. But isn't
    this how the long s died? \r\n\r\n\r\nGeorge \r\nI felt bad because I had no shoes,
    until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
  created: '2007-04-15 16:50:20'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "I think outward-pointing guillemets are esthetically and communicatively
    the best kind of quotes:\r\n\r\n(1) As so many of you have said, guillemets beat
    the so-called inverted/raised commas because they leave no ugly gaps. Hrant\u2019s
    point about avoiding confusion with the apostrophe may be communicatively even
    more important.\r\n\r\n(2) For maximum clarity, opening and closing quotes should
    point in a different direction. It may seem odd that I mention this, but in Finnish
    composition we have this unfortunate convention \u2013 it may come from Sweden
    \u2013 of all the quotes pointing right (i.e. either \xBBthis way\xBB or \u201Dthis\u201D).\r\n\r\n(3)
    The outward direction looks better, the quotes \u2013 especially when they are
    guillemets \u2013 enclosing the quoted matter in the same way as parentheses.\r\n\r\nI
    don\u2019t think things like this should be considered part of the language per
    se. They have little to do with the grammatical system; they are arbitrary conventions
    (though certainly part of the literary tradition and culture of each country).\r\n\r\nHaving
    said all this, would I have the guts to use guillemets in English text? Probably
    not. I considered it when doing my own thesis (in English), but ended up using
    the traditional forms.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-15 17:12:35'
- author:
    name: Plaintype
    picture: 111000
  body: "thanks again for the great participation.\r\ni'm still double-minded, however,
    it's more likely, that i'm going with the \u201Ctraditional\u201D quotes after
    all. but don't stop the discussion right now, it's very interesting to get to
    know all the different opinions.\r\n\r\n// alex"
  created: '2007-04-15 19:14:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "George, brilliant idea. I would certainly be a signatory to such a thing,
    and would love to even write a paragraph or two in its promulgation. Not being
    an actual font <cite>user</cite> however :-) I wouldn't try to carry the torch
    myself here even though I'm so vocally supportive of the idea. So if a real font
    user starts it, I'll jump in.\r\n\r\n> opening and closing quotes should point
    in a different direction.\r\n\r\nAgreed. On the other hand I'm no fan of the ductally
    imposed vertical flipping of the opening/closing quotes. What I call \"rationalist\"
    quotes (some others call it mirrored) such as used by Licko and Carter (the latter
    mostly in his screen fonts) are generally superior in my mind. And there are in
    fact long-standing historical precedents, for those who need that sort of thing:
    the French curiosity I showed in that other thread; and much of what ATF produced*
    around a century ago.\r\n\r\n* Probably motivated by the pantograph.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-15 19:43:30'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "George wrote:\r\n\r\n<em>If you can recruit some other designers \u2014 like
    people here \u2014 form a group, issue a press release about why you\u2019re doing
    it and then all of you do it on all your design jobs from now on it might become
    a major shift in design style. Or a curiosity in the history of type. </em>\r\n\r\nMy
    guess is the latter.  Not that this would be the first time that the \"best\"
    solution isn't the one that gets adapted by the masses, and it could keep company
    with Esperanto, the Dvorak keyboard, and BetaMax...."
  children:
  - author:
      name: gthompson
      picture: 109676
    body: "Linda wrote:\r\n\r\n<em>My guess is the latter. Not that this would be
      the first time that the \u201Cbest\u201D solution isn\u2019t the one that gets
      adapted by the masses, and it could keep company with Esperanto, the Dvorak
      keyboard, and BetaMax\u2026.</em>\r\n\r\nGee, I was hoping a bunch of folks
      would jump in here and support this. I imagined this would be the beginning
      of a sea change in punctuation. Guess not. \r\n\r\nWhich made me think of:\r\nIn
      the 1930s Jack Northrop developed a flying wing aircraft, the YB-35, which morphed
      into the YB-49 that first flew in 1948. Turned out no one could fly the thing
      due to it's instability. There were several crashes and the program was canceled.
      When the Air Force developed the B2 Stealth Bomber which was based in part on
      Northrop's work he was invited to see the B2 fly. His idea was sound, it just
      took time for the technology and thinking to catch up to Northrop. Incidentally
      the wing span of the B2 matches the YB-49. He was that right about it.\r\n\r\nSo
      I have my fingers crossed on the guillemets. Alex may be a harbinger.\r\n\r\nGeorge
      \r\nI felt bad because I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
    created: '2007-04-16 02:26:41'
  created: '2007-04-15 20:41:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Linda, this is no different than the \"masses\" keeping on\r\nwith Times
    and Comic Sans - but we still make new fonts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-15 20:57:42'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Well, as Mencken wrote, "No one ever went broke underestimating the intelligence
    of the American public."
  created: '2007-04-16 00:23:32'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>He was that right about it.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, eventually.  \r\n\r\nThe
    Canadian government developed an incredible fighter plane in the late 1950s that
    blew everything else away, and the Avro Arrow was not only cancelled, but virtually
    every part or model was dismantled, destroyed, and the engineers were threatened,
    all because the U.S. government wasn't keen about someone else having a better
    plane than the F-series.\r\n\r\nThere is, BTW, a documented set of plans and a
    prototype of that engine was later used to power the Concorde, but I don't expect
    my government to roll Arrows off an assembly line any time soon."
  children:
  - author:
      name: gthompson
      picture: 109676
    body: "<em>The Canadian government developed an incredible fighter plane in the
      late 1950s that blew everything else away, and the Avro Arrow was not only cancelled,
      but virtually every part or model was dismantled, destroyed, and the engineers
      were threatened, all because the U.S. government wasn\u2019t keen about someone
      else having a better plane than the F-series.\r\nThere is, BTW, a documented
      set of plans and a prototype of that engine was later used to power the Concorde,
      but I don\u2019t expect my government to roll Arrows off an assembly line any
      time soon.</em>\r\n\r\nWho was it who said the only causes worth fighting for
      were lost ones? So lets all get together and start building Arrows. There's
      gotta be a market in the private sector. Know any rich folks who want to invest?\r\n\r\nAnd
      arrows look like guillemets don't they? Or two flying wings in formation. Or.
      . . \r\n\r\nGeorge \r\nI felt bad because I had no shoes, until I met a man
      who had no Bodoni"
    created: '2007-04-16 02:56:29'
  created: '2007-04-16 02:40:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "George, how many does one need simply to start something?\r\nI figure two.
    It's looking like we already have three.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-16 03:01:44'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "I'm game to use them sometime soon in English, especially if it's a text
    that exists <em>only</em> in English so there's no confusion.\r\n\r\nAnd by the
    way, here's a long-standing use of these shapes.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/citroen-logo_4598.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nIn
    the first years of the twentieth century, Andr\xE9 Citro\xEBn started out with
    a company that made gears with herringbone-patterned teeth. My simplistic understanding
    is that these gears will not lose/waste as much energy as teeth with simple horizontal
    teeth, but require greater precision in manufacturing and alignment. Once he got
    into the business of making cars he retained the shapes of his gear teeth as a
    symbol for the Citro\xEBn car business. As you can see, though, a realistic representation
    of the parallel gear teeth was supplanted by guillemets."
  created: '2007-04-16 04:01:44'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Hrant, if you're counting me in that \"three,\" you're very mistaken.\r\n\r\nRead
    <a href=\"http://nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/economics/laureates/2002/kahneman-autobio.html\">this</a>
    -- in the immortal words of that brilliant philosopher Kenny Rogers....\r\n\r\n<em>You've
    got to know when to hold 'em\r\nKnow when to fold 'em\r\nKnow when to walk away\r\nKnow
    when to run.</em>\r\n\r\nIf there's one thing I've learned over the years, it's
    which battles that are worth fighting and which are worth walking away from: this
    is the latter...."
  created: '2007-04-16 04:04:12'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "Perfect example of the handsome qualities of the guillemets: Just now I went
    to my own site to grab the Citro\xEBn logotype, and I noticed the juxtaposition
    of guillemets and conventional anglo-american quotes in paragraph 4. The guillemets
    certainly look nicer! \r\n\r\nhttp://www.brucekennettstudio.com/citroen.html \r\n\r\nThey
    appear again in paragraph 6 in an English sentence -- since this page has been
    up for a while, can I claim to be an early adopter?"
  created: '2007-04-16 04:18:11'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: Let me hasten to add, though, in support of what several of us were saying
    above, that paragraph 4 also illustrates how surrounding the French with guillemets
    and the English with quotes gives an instantaneous extra measure of differentiation
    between the two languages. In something like the brochure with German and English
    quotes, that could be a great help.
  created: '2007-04-16 04:23:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> if you\u2019re counting me in that \u201Cthree,\u201D\r\n\r\nThat would
    be crazy of me, since you've been the most vocal opponent here!\r\n\r\nBruce,
    using guillemets for French (quoted) content in non-French text I find very tasteful,
    and the least we can do. I've done it myself once - see frame 14 here:\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/manademo/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-16 04:40:43'
- author:
    name: aegirthor
    picture: 112435
  body: "Ah this is interesting. I have a book on Mies van der Rohe at home that is
    in both English and German. Both the German and English texts are all set with
    guillemets, <em>French</em> style. It looked a little odd at first but the meaning
    was quite clear.\r\n\r\n/hunts for book\r\n\r\nAha: http://tinyurl.com/yrccow\r\n\r\n(Click
    forward to 'Glass skyscraper on a polygonal plan' to see it)"
  created: '2007-04-16 13:11:35'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "\"using guillemets for French (quoted) content in non-French text I find
    very tasteful\"\r\n\r\nHrant, I hate to be such a killjoy, but in keeping with
    my comments about this sort of thing not really being part of the language, I
    would generally prefer each publication to use just one type of quotes, even if
    it has several languages (whether as parallel texts or more freely mixed).\r\n\r\nAdd
    (after seeing the previous post): yes, just as in Aegir's example."
  created: '2007-04-16 13:28:07'
- author:
    name: Plaintype
    picture: 111000
  body: "great find, aegirthor.\r\nhowever, i don't understand, why he used the wrong
    direction of the guillemets for german typesetting. but maybe <cite>this</cite>
    is, what could be confusing for readers, rather than heaving this or that type
    of quotes consequently. they can easily read both texts with a view and then get
    wondering about, why they point in two different directions, respectively why
    they are different at all. in this case, i would have preferred inward pointing
    guillemets for both languages. at least, the german part would be correct then.\r\n\r\n\r\n//
    alex"
  created: '2007-04-16 13:32:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Aegir, great find.\r\n\r\nOlli, for a <cite>bilingual</cite> text I agree
    that reducing the types of quotes is a good idea.\r\n\r\nAlex, how often does
    a reader read both texts?\r\nRemember, people generally read to efficiently get
    at the content.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-16 15:36:27'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "\"for a bilingual text I agree that reducing the types of quotes is a good
    idea\"\r\n\r\nFrankly, I think consistency would be even more important in the
    case you mentioned, Hrant (foreign-language quotes in the midst of text).\r\n\r\nAlex,
    I don't think we should (ideally) be thinking of these matters in terms of what's
    \"correct\" for each language \u2013 but rather, what works best typographically."
  created: '2007-04-16 16:37:03'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t think we should (ideally) be thinking of these matters in
    terms of what\u2019s \u201Ccorrect\u201D for each language \u2013 but rather,
    what works best typographically.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's like saying an architect should
    (edit: <strong>not</strong>) think about the end use of or the process of constructing
    a building, but only what \"looks\" good.  And people wonder why so many new buildings
    are crap.  :-(\r\n\r\nIt's the first and foremost responsibility of both the editor
    and the publication designer to make sure that the document can be accessed easily
    by the intended audience, not just to \"look\" good.\r\n\r\nBut if the appearance
    is what is most important, then you've got \"art,\" and not much else...."
  created: '2007-04-16 17:44:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Why do you equate \"works best\" with \"looks good\"? Olli (and others) seem\r\nto
    essentially be talking about not being too restricted by Das Rules, and to\r\ninstead
    shoot for the heart of Good Design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-16 17:50:16'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: Exactly, Hrant! I wouldn't want to go just with what looks good. But it is
    true that in the real world, functionality has to do with what the readership
    is used to. The same old problem with typographic reform.
  created: '2007-04-16 18:06:53'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Jumping in late... to paraphrase Kenny Rogers, pick your battles.\r\n\r\nFor
    an art catalog I think there can be *some* leeway in favor of design over convention.
    Especially since who buys art books for the text? But you may confuse or slightly
    put off the english readers. We are definitely not used to seeing guillemets in
    text. Do you really want to draw attention to them, or is it more important that
    the text read seamlessly? That IMHO is what you should be focusing on, not what
    may or may not look better. Remember those of us who are accustomed to quote marks
    not only don't think they look bad but we don't even really \"see\" them.\r\n\r\nI
    keep coming across fiction writers who have done away with quotes altogether in
    dialogue and I find that much more alienating than foreign punctuation."
  created: '2007-04-16 18:44:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> those of us who are accustomed to quote marks not only don\u2019t\r\n>
    think they look bad but we don\u2019t even really \u201Csee\u201D them.\r\n\r\nBut
    if you believe that bad things happen during immersive reading but our consciousness
    is shielded from them then this \"truth\" becomes less pertinent. In fact to me
    this goes hand-in-hand with the conviction that we still/always need more text
    fonts: it's not just what you <cite>think</cite> you're reading.\r\n\r\nPlus in
    the conscious realm there's still the apostrophe confusion issue.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-16 19:05:39'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "I wonder how much more smoothly this conversation would go if we were all
    in the same room, sipping coffee or tea (or <em>obstler</em>) together . . .\r\n\r\nEven
    though I am a card-carrying adorer of guillemets, I have to back up Linda's latest
    observations. It seems to me that we must carry out our responsibilities to the
    content first, and then practice \xABart\xBB as a secondary responsibility. Certainly
    a gold-plated curmudgeon and conservative person in many ways, Stanley Morison
    said something like, \xABIt is the duty of the typographer to carry out the intentions
    of the author without distraction along the way.\xBB (I paraphrase, obviously.)\r\n\r\nCommunication
    -- in which we are all engaged as designers -- must get the ideas and feelings
    across without confusion. If this can be accomplished successfully, then everything
    else is up for grabs.\r\n\r\nI don't think Linda is saying Adhere to This Rule
    or We Will Tar and Feather You -- I think she's observing that conventions are
    necessary and expected, such as the placement and clarity of navigation on web
    pages, or where street signs ought to go, or where the horn button is on a steering
    wheel.\r\n\r\nThere was a calligrapher in New England whose work I saw over the
    years, and she really wanted to be a painter. Her lettering became more and more
    abstract, until it was just pure gesture, and yet the words were still there (but
    illegible). Perhaps I, too, am a gold-plated curmudgeon and conservative, but
    I felt teased and frustrated by this. I wanted her to use pure color and line
    at this point, or to leave enough clarity so that if she intended me to read the
    words, I could still do that. Otherwise she is reading aloud a poem in the forest
    when no one else is present. Oder? \r\n\r\nMaybe what we are tossing back and
    forth cannot be fit into simple rules, and must be interpreted by each designer
    and client on a case-by-case basis. Certainly for Alex's catalog (not knowing
    the style of the furniture, the style of his design, the intended audience, the
    amount of material to be quoted, the <em>nature</em> of the material to be quoted,
    or the client's preferences!) my instinct would be to use \xBBauf deutsch\xAB
    and \u201Cin English\u201D so that each language has its own differentiations.
    \r\n\r\nIf the whole job were in one language, I would be happy to experiment
    with setting everything in \xABthis style\xBB in any western language, as long
    as the client felt it would be okay. In the case of a bilingual catalog, having
    \xBBauf deutsch\xAB and \xBBin English\xAB might be more stylistically unified,
    but I would think it less clear linguistically, especially if the readers of English
    were not Europeans. If they <em>are</em> Europeans, then it is much less of an
    issue. So many factors, and we all know so little about the job . . . \r\n\r\nAre
    we just talking in circles about whether red cars are better than silver cars?
    Probably. "
  created: '2007-04-16 19:13:30'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "<cite>Are we just talking in circles about whether red cars are better than
    silver cars?</cite>\r\n\r\nI think we're also talking about what people can become
    accustomed to, which is, seemingly, anything. "
  created: '2007-04-16 19:27:57'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: So I reiterate my question, is this the appropriate place to shake them out
    of their habits or not? As the designer, that's the decision he has to make. Using
    guillemets in English text will take the reader's attention away from the text,
    however briefly. Alex has to weigh the relative importance of design integrity
    (altho that's certainly subjective) and the integrity of the text, for the reader
    - and author. Hrant actually said the same thing earlier in the thread I think.
  created: '2007-04-16 19:40:03'
- author:
    name: Plaintype
    picture: 111000
  body: "<cite>That IMHO is what you should be focusing on, not what may or may not
    look better. Remember those of us who are accustomed to quote marks not only don\u2019t
    think they look bad but we don\u2019t even really \u201Csee\u201D them.>\r\n\r\nthe
    problem for me is basically, that i really want to use the guillemets for the
    german text. if i cannot use them for the english texts, the people (with the
    money) in vienna would be confused at first. i don't think, that the artist has
    a problem with it. seriously, the guillemets are really the smallest of all problems,
    that i'm going to face in the next three weeks. anyway, so far i've been getting
    very usefull opinions from the \"typographic society\" on this great board.\r\n\r\n<cite>not
    knowing the style of the furniture, the style of his design, the intended audience</cite>\r\n\r\nthe
    style is slightly historical (early 19th century) with a unorthodox quirky twist
    by mixing serif (didone style) and sans serif letters in the headlines. correctness
    is not the main objective \u2013 some textblocks will even \"totter\" in the text
    part, column and trim lines will be hand- or respectively mouse-drawn. oh, and
    the image part will have some really chaotic moments.\r\nbut aside from the general
    design, i'd like to know about what i'm doing, when it comes to typographic issues
    like the guillemets. and if people (like you, first and foremost) ask me, why
    i chose to use this or that style of quotes, i might point out, that i didn't
    do it by accident.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-16 20:13:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Perhaps it would not seem so problematic if typographers in general weren't
    so conservative in their choice of text typeface.\r\nAs Eric says, people adjust
    to the idiosyncracies of text type and keep right on reading.\r\nAfter all, there's
    no great consternation (amongst the general population) about the use of hash
    marks in place of curly quotes, so if *we* can foist that abomination on them,
    guillemets shouldn't be a problem.\r\nThose who would require most convincing
    are editors.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-16 20:14:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> people adjust to the idiosyncracies of text type\r\n\r\n1) Upto a point.\r\n2)
    There are still subconscious factors.\r\n\r\n> Those who would require most convincing
    are editors.\r\n\r\nAgreed.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-16 20:23:16'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: Now that I read Alex's design brief, I say absolutely use the guillemets everywhere!
    I was imagining something much more restrained and lower in energy. Do I understand
    you correctly that you are intermixing Didot and sans characters within the same
    lines/words? If so, then heavens why are we worried about which way the guillemets
    point and in which language?! Can you post a PDF of this once you get it all put
    together? Sounds really interesting.
  created: '2007-04-16 20:46:13'
- author:
    name: Plaintype
    picture: 111000
  body: "<cite>Can you post a PDF of this once you get it all put together? Sounds
    really interesting.</cite>\r\n\r\nfor all the great help, that i've been getting
    here, i should really do that. although, i guess, this would need an own thread,
    regarding the fact, we are discussing guillemets only here \u2013 well, i'll prepare
    for a virtual stoning. ;)\r\n\r\nbtw, hello nick. you know a little bit about
    the project, we discussed 19th century typesetting in january. months have passed
    now. there were some hang-ups, too, because the clients (primarily the backers
    from vienna) hesitated to give green lights for more than a month.\r\nbut now,
    the printing deadline is near and a nasty bunch of work is still left to do. i
    was struggling about discussing the choice of type here. but this would have become
    an endless debate. i've picked my favorite (with all consequences)**. the combination
    is somewhat odd and it might not be perfect at all, but there's something whispering:
    \"don't dismiss me\" ;)\r\n\r\n// alex\r\n\r\n\r\n** <strong>edit:</strong> but
    maybe ... well, nick, i've spottet a typeface, called <cite>Figgins</cite> in
    your punchcut article. This looks very promising, though, i presume, it's a custom
    type, that you did for a certain purpose, isn't it? i have never dared to ask
    you and anyway, it seems not to be available for sale or unfinished. but just
    for the case, that it is available, i would have been really eager to test it."
  created: '2007-04-16 22:43:42'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: "Shoot, I'll sign on to using them fancy schmancy euro-thingies just for the
    fun of riling people up.\r\n\r\nIn \"Enemy of the People,\" Henrik Ibsen's protagonist
    said, \"The strongest man stands alone.\"\r\n\r\nGive it a shot."
  created: '2007-04-17 20:21:13'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Can you even do guillemets here on Typophile? I was just doing a joke on
    another thread & tried to do em. But The smart engine treats them like HTML...\r\n\r\nWait..
    I know!\r\n\r\n\xAB Ah, satifaction! \xBB"
  created: '2007-04-18 21:38:50'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "As far as whether guillemets are accceptable in American English, the only
    situation I can think of would be in cosmetics packaging and advertising. Weird
    European, and especially pseudo-French affectations seem to go over well in that
    product category for some reason.\r\n\r\nBah, but what do I know?"
  created: '2007-06-11 13:20:54'
date: '2007-04-14 01:00:04'
title: guillemets in english texts

---
