---
author:
  name: Jared Benson
  picture: 109417
body: "Today, the 16th of April, we celebrate the seventh anniversary of Typophile.
  When did you discover Typophile, and how? Tell your story here.\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Very simple story. I was looking for the Guggenheim's font and sent an email
    around to some designer friends. One of them linked me to a thread here on that
    topic and I was hooked. Now of course that font is available - Verlag - but at
    the time it was exclusive to the Gugg.\r\n\r\nThis was 3 years, 3 weeks ago according
    to my profile."
  created: '2007-04-16 19:58:22'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I was searching for information on the history of Akzidenz-Grotesk. The two
    relevant typophile threads make up the two most detailed English language documents
    on the subject, making the threads extremely useful for a paper I was writing.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    one of these days I\u2019ll flesh that research paper out, get my friend who knows
    German well enough to help me through some old German books to help corroborate
    everything, and publish it."
  created: '2007-04-16 20:09:11'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: It was so long ago (1999?) I don't remember how I found typophile.com. At
    the time it was nothing more than a lovely teaser splash page and an invitation
    to participate. I emailed Jared and we talked a bit about ideas for the site,
    including a directory of foundries and designers (the wiki has worked out to be
    a good tool for that end). I think Typophile has become more of a discussion central
    than Jared ever imagined, and much more active.
  created: '2007-04-16 20:10:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I also got the original invitation. The rest is hiss-toh-ree.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-16 20:16:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Somewhere around the Spring of 2004, while Googling some type related keyword,
    Typophile popped up as one of the hits. I don\u2019t remember what I was looking
    for at the time but I became so enamored with the existence of a forum filled
    with type geeks that I just wandered about the place. Soon, I was hooked and signed
    up and got my T-shirt, screen name and an avatar\u2014not the current one. I was
    particularly intrigued with the Critique Forum and was impressed with not only
    the work of Kris Sowersby, but the dialogue which ensued in the making of his
    now-released typeface. The whole experience rekindled my dormant interest in type
    design. I soon after began work on Leporello and posted it for critique. I am
    still thankful to all those who took the time to help me on my way.\r\n\r\nThanks
    to Joe and Jared for the reawakening!\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-16 20:30:32'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: It's all Yves' fault and that wacky TypeCon in NYC. I was volunteering and
    ended up getting lunch with Yves and Ascender Corp. We were discussing type resources
    and he told me to join up, so I did!
  created: '2007-04-16 20:49:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The first online type forum I visited was Typographi.ca, at the time (2002)
    a well-known Canadian site. It was there that I first heard tell of Typophile.\r\n\r\nInvestigating
    the phenomenon further, <a href=\"http://www.shinntype.com/Assets/Depts/Essays/TextTalk.pdf
    \">here's</a> what I wrote for <em>Graphic Exchange</em> in 2003."
  created: '2007-04-16 20:54:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> a well-known Canadian site.\r\n\r\nFunny.\r\nAh wait, do you mean English?
    \ ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-16 20:58:05'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "I gave a talk about W. A. Dwiggins at TypeCon2006 in Boston, and I got wind
    of Typophile through that gathering. A few months later I finally got around to
    visiting, saw what a great community this is, and Madame Tiffany la Merveilleuse
    helped me to get signed up. \r\n\r\nI haven't been the same since. "
  created: '2007-04-16 21:03:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Ah wait, do you mean English? ;-)</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps you're thinking
    of Typographi.fk (another Anglophone domain)."
  created: '2007-04-16 21:09:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, I'm thinking of the Toronto Star piece.  :->\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-16 21:11:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "When I first heard about Typophile the front page navigation was Mac-only,
    which made it difficult for me to promote on microsoft.com/typography. That changed,
    along with a lot of other things, in September 2001...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/links/news.aspx?NID=2208 "
  created: '2007-04-16 21:53:54'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: It was in my Typography class in school that I first learned of Typophile.
    Keith Tam, my teacher at the time, had listed it as a course reference. I checked
    it out, got way obsessed with being a lurker, then one glorious day I saw a posting
    for an intern. I applied, and here I am 3 years later, bossing Christian around.
    :) Ok, so he bosses me around.
  created: '2007-04-16 22:21:25'
- author:
    name: cheshiredave
    picture: 110433
  body: I am a visitor-stats whore; I am addicted to tracking how people come to my
    sites. Thus, I found Typophile in 2002 because you guys found me first and linked
    to my little movie. I followed the link back, and between here and Typographica,
    I finally discovered where my community had been hiding all my online life. Thanks
    for providing a safe haven for type geeks all these years -- happy birthday, Typophile!
  created: '2007-04-16 22:48:22'
- author:
    name: amyp
    picture: 109556
  body: I think I found a few stickers from my bag o'schwag at TypeCon 2004 and I
    decided to check it out... This is an excellent resource and I always tell my
    students about it. Thanks Typophile! Without you I'd be a typo-nothing! :)
  created: '2007-04-16 22:56:47'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I'm only a member for 30 weeks or something, but I think I was just searching
    for typography- and typedesign-related websites, and I stumbled upon this one.
    Or I may have seen it linked on one of the type-blogs. I'm not sure, to be honest.
    :D
  created: '2007-04-16 23:41:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The House of the Bezier Curve\r\n\r\nThere is a site upon the net \r\nThey
    call it Typophile.\r\nIt\u2019s been the ruin of many a poor son\r\nAnd God I
    know I\u2019m one. \r\n\r\nMy Uncle was a printer\r\nHe taught me 'bout the type\r\nI
    have loved the Baskerville\r\nAnd you know that ain't no hype. \r\n\r\nNow the
    only thing a typehead needs\r\nIs his FontLab and his Suite,\r\nAnd the only time
    he\u2019s satisfied \r\nIs when the curves are sweet.\r\n\r\nOh mother tell your
    children\r\nNot do to what I have done.\r\nTo spend your life before the screen\r\nTrying
    to make that notan hum.\r\n\r\nWell I got one hand on the trackball\r\nand the
    other on the keys \r\nand I\u2019m going back to Typophile,\r\na-cryin' help me,
    help me please. \r\n\r\nYes, there is a site upon the net \r\nThey call it Typophile.\r\nIt\u2019s
    been the ruin of many a poor son,\r\nAnd God I know I\u2019m one. "
  created: '2007-04-17 02:08:49'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I was playing with \"upgrading\" one of our Type 1 database fonts to OpenType
    format, & trying to figure out the proper names to give glyphs  we had previously
    called \"oneoldstyle,\" \"oneoldstyletab,\" etc. There was a long thread which
    popped up in a Google search. It, and other threads were so helpful, I sent the
    $40 donation. Never got the promised T-shirts thought. (Just kidding I've gotten
    much, much more from the site).\r\n\r\nCharles Ellertson"
  created: '2007-04-17 02:30:12'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: Hey W.B., you clearly have a future in writing lyrics! Very clever and very
    funny. I liked singing along and having all the syllables fall in the right spots
    in the rhythm, too.
  created: '2007-04-17 03:40:28'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I don't remember exactly how I found out about it, but I'm pretty sure it
    was from something on Typographica. It was probably not long after it started,
    but I remember feeling like I was late to the party.
  created: '2007-04-17 03:41:19'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Damn. I wish I could match William's post!\r\n\r\nI stumbled on you twisted
    typesters while looking for some answers about aligning last lines on the page...
    You guys set me straight pretty quickly. \r\n\r\nThe first night I must've spent
    easily 3 hours reading back threads, often not understanding much (especially
    Eben's threads) but getting a real kick out of the writing and arguing -- in particular,
    Hrant's comments. \r\n\r\nI have often thought of turning some of it into found
    poetry. Who can resist the word \"bouma\"? Especially << Bouma >> in guillemets?\r\n\r\n;)
    keep it up! You have gotten me through many a work day.\r\n "
  created: '2007-04-17 03:44:27'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Bill, you want to have a look at <a href=\"http://www.theglobeandmail.com/factsandarguments\">today's
    (Monday, April 16, 2007) Facts & Arguments essay</a>....\r\n\r\nI started up here
    last summer, when a type-related search hit here first.  (edit: I've learned a
    lot, made some great friends, and like every other place in the e-world, found
    there are people who just \"don't get it\" in every sphere of consciousness in
    the universe.)\r\n\r\nWhich means, of course, that Typophile is a lot like the
    real world: most folks are great, but a few aren't.  ;-)\r\n\r\n(edit: that's
    not either approval or condemnation, it's what it is.)"
  created: '2007-04-17 03:54:53'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "I suppose I heard about Typophile at typographi.ca, but I cannot recall when.
    I only occasionally looked at the site. In July 2005 I was at the SHARP conference
    in Halifax and something I saw here spurred me to write a comment. I decided to
    join. But I was using a really crappy computer on a really slow hotel dial-up
    about 3 in the morning, and I kept getting some stupid-ass message that made me
    believe the action was not working. Since I had to give a talk in only a few hours
    I slammed shut the laptop and went to sleep.\r\n\r\nThe urge to say anything must
    have left, for I never thought again about making a comment until recently. So
    I tried to join up. I must have entered the same user name and password, because
    came back a note that led me to see I'd been a member since that night in Halifax.
    Who knew?\r\n\r\nGlad to be here; very worthwhile. But I have very little to say
    to the world these days, so I doubt I'll add very much.\r\n\r\ngood night.\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2007-04-17 03:59:19'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Thanks to Blueflag from Dafont.com\r\nI now have friends like Hrant+Dezcom\r\n\r\nTypohile(s)
    has made my wife\r\nAlways says, holding knife:\r\n\r\nForgot kids+house!\r\nThrow
    keys+mouse!\r\nTypophile! Typophile! Typophile!\r\nCurse the Day of Typophile!\"\r\n\r\nPlease,
    do not blame her,\r\nI .....................................  hair"
  created: '2007-04-17 08:50:17'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "I think I was googling for something type related about 2 years ago, stumbled
    upon Typophile, got stuck, then hooked. Lurked around for a while and finally
    posted my first post June 17, 2005. Time sure flies! Ever since my typomania has
    got worse and money spent on fonts and type books is increasing. I spend a lot
    of time here, and it sometimes affects my work and/or sleep.    \r\nThank you
    for existing! Typophile has helped me a lot and entertained me too."
  created: '2007-04-17 09:12:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Happy Birthday T-ophile! I don't remember when I came here or how, sorry.
  created: '2007-04-17 12:30:44'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Well, I see that next week I will have been a member for 5 years. I don't
    remember how I learned about Typophile. It might have been via Typographi.ca or
    the Typo-L list. I was heavily involved for a while in the beginning (much at
    the expense of other aspects of my life). \r\n\r\nAs many of you know, I disappeared
    for a while a few years ago. Rumor was that I had checked into Typophile Rehab;
    but really, I just took on a very all-consuming creative director job for a couple
    years.\r\n\r\nNow I've been making my way back on to the forums. But I find I
    don't have as much to say (or prove, perhaps?) as before. Still, I'm very glad
    Typophile is still around and going strong. I enjoy touching in now and again
    and keeping up with things.\r\n\r\nHere's to many more great years of Typophile!\r\n\r\n--
    K.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-17 14:43:43'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I was still at school and very interested in editorial design so I frequently
    browsed reading and learning about type on many now dissapeared small websites
    until one day I stumbled on Typophile. About four years ago.\r\n\r\nI remember
    the first thread I read it was something about the future of type and the alphabet,
    it looked very interesting and there was this guy with a strange name making such
    radical propositions that made me post.\r\n\r\nI remember some other notorius
    personalities that marched upon the typophile threads such as an excentric Italian
    printer who went to sail a couple of years ago, a birdwatching expert on dwiggings
    that who knows where did he flyed to and many others that still remain.\r\n\r\nI'm
    thankful to typophile and oh god... I know... I'm one...\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2007-04-17 15:19:28'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "A friend turned me onto the site. I realized I could study the glyph here.
    Since I believe in microscosmic analysis that suited me.\r\n\r\nThanks for all
    the hard work\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-04-17 16:19:29'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "As one of the regulars at What the Font, along with Phiippe, Mike F\u2014
    we chat occasionally and share stories about type. Mike F insisted (as he does)
    one day, that I read a thread here - and so here I've continued to be.\r\n\r\nHappy
    BIrthday Typophile.com and thank you MikeF"
  created: '2007-04-17 16:39:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/curly_4761.jpg]'
  created: '2007-04-17 16:53:40'
- author:
    name: Andy Martin
    picture: 111412
  body: "*Sorry I'm a day late*\r\n\r\nI'm a typoholic, (or as a close friend says
    \"typophiliac\"),so I was looking for a place where I could extend my knowledge
    of typography and font design. It was the first forum that popped up when I searched
    and here I remain and always will. Whether I've improved is debatable though.\r\n\r\nThankyou
    Typohile."
  created: '2007-04-17 17:01:32'
- author:
    name: gulliver
    picture: 110581
  body: "I found Typophile.com quite by accident -- a Google search for some font
    or another, I believe. As I had just begun experimenting with Fontographer, I
    posted my first few tinkerings -- Atlantis, Architrave, and Hefeweizen, I think
    they were, with Silvertone Woodtype, the Seriatim sorts and several others following
    soon thereafter.\r\n\r\nMy thanks to Joe, Jared, and all of you who are  involved
    with Typophile for giving us all a great forum for exhibiting and critiquing our
    work. Happy anniversary, and I look forward to many more.\r\n\r\nDavid Thometz"
  created: '2007-04-17 17:08:31'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I remember it as if it was yesterday. A friend of mine, Anthony Hadden, mentioned
    that Jared's site was up. I zoomed over and haven't left since. So many new friends
    found through this site I can't even begin to say how much Typophile means to
    me. Yey for type geeks!
  created: '2007-04-17 17:11:24'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "I was doing research for my Thesis project (which included the design of
    \ a typeface) and I couldn't seem to find any resources for creating a working
    font. I did a few Google searches and found some tutorials on this site (what
    happened to those, BTW) and I've been hooked ever since. That was almost 2 years
    ago. \r\n\r\nI've learned so much about type on this site, that I now spend less
    time talking about it here and more time trying to make it!"
  created: '2007-04-17 18:43:12'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: "Two days from now it will be one year since I signed in for the first time.
    I lurked for about 6 months before that. I think I found Typophile via a link
    from Typographi.ca, which is now Typographica.com. While I have always loved type,
    and my undergrad graphic design concentration was typography, I have been learning
    so much from you masters here. I am inspired an hopeful, to the point that I've
    finally become serious about producing my first family of faces. And I will be
    asking you all a lot of questions and posting here for your critiques and advice.
    Thanks for everything.\r\n\r\n--Bruce"
  created: '2007-04-17 20:31:18'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: In April 2000, I met Jared by the vending machine where he was selling his
    font [[Review Beta]] beside candy bars and chips. The font I was working on, "Raisin
    Nut", came up. He said, "you should post that on Typophile". The rest is history.
  created: '2007-04-17 21:03:07'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "it might sound kind of silly, but typophile has changed my life. I had just
    started toying with building fonts and was wanting to do a revival of <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/2733\">Nymphic</a>
    by [[Hermann Ihlenburg]]. I came here for help and that started my [[typophilism]].
    That was Jan 2004. i'm sure my following onslaught of questions was a bit annoying,
    but folks like [[Adam Twardoch]], [[Thomas Phinney]], [[Hrant Papazian]], [[John
    Hudson]], [[Tiffany Wardle|Miss Tiff]] and others were always willing to answer
    and educate me, for which i will always be appreciative (please forgive me if
    i didn't list your name in this short list). By the end of the year, I had quit
    my job and been taken on by [[P22]] as an intern for 3 months (a fortunate series
    of events). I've been at P22 ever since. At Typecon 2005 [[Jared Benson|Jared]]
    and [[Joseph Pemberton|Joe]] invited me to be a moderator at Typophile with my
    charge being to look over the newly-formed [[typowiki]]. I never really thought
    of becoming a [[type designer|typeface designer ]]before all of this, and now
    i forsee type continuing to be a large part of my future (likely for the rest
    of my natural life). thanks to all the guys & gals at [[Punchcut]] and to all
    of you who contribute here, you've enriched my life in ways you may never know.\r\n\r\np.s.
    and i've made some great friends along the way! who knew you could make <em>real</em>
    friends in a <em>virtual</em> community? y'all are the greatest!"
  created: '2007-04-17 21:26:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Paul's story is actually quite a bit richer: at least from what I can tell,
    Paul was hired mostly because P22 needed somebody to \"refresh\" the essentially
    dormant Lanston library which they had recently acquired from Gerald Giampa thanks
    to some guerilla marketing on... Typophile!\r\n\r\nIf Typophile ever needs to
    show off a case\r\nstudy of its positive role, this is The Story.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-17 22:01:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Paul also left out the part where he helps EVERYBODY with everything. I know
    he has helped me a great deal with many of my \"onslaught of questions\".\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-17 22:08:37'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "After more than seven years of absence from the type scene I realised that
    I simply <em>had</em> to go back at last. I searched the internet, found Typographica,
    Typographer.org and Typophile.\r\n\r\nThen I stumbled upon the <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/3847\">Type
    Identification Board</a>... :^)"
  created: '2007-04-17 22:15:44'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>he helps EVERYBODY with everything</em>\r\n\r\nwell, i try to do what
    i can. i guess i still feel indebted for everything i've gained from this site
    and try to give that back whenever i get a chance to."
  created: '2007-04-17 22:25:03'
- author:
    name: smarks
    picture: 109688
  body: "I've had a general interest in typography for many years, and as an Adobe
    customer I started reading the Adobe Typography forum. They kept referring people
    over here for interesting articles, quick type IDs and such, so I started reading
    over here, and ....\r\n\r\ns'marks\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-17 22:28:59'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Thanks for sharing everybody. This thread has been a great ride down memory
    boulevard. William, that's a great tribute... I need that tune set to some acoustic
    guitar. And, Aziz, I'm going to read that again later when I need a laugh.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-17 23:40:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"House of the Rising Sun\" would do it for you, Joe :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-18 01:03:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"House of the Rising Sun\" would do it for you, Joe :-)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.last.fm/music/The+Animals/_/House+of+the+Rising+Sun\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-18 01:05:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I need that tune set to some acoustic guitar.\r\n\r\nLook out, I'll bring
    my blues guitar and amp :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-18 02:27:10'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "I asked a couple of seemingly innocent questions in an other forum...\r\n\r\n<em>What
    is good type, and who are the designers of good type.</em>\r\n\r\n...no one answered
    my questions.\r\n\r\nAnd then somehow I wound up here, I guess \"...the wind just
    kind of pushed me this way.\" \r\n\r\n________\r\nHiro\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-18 06:53:40'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "I have known about this site for about awile now but never joined until taking
    a higher level typeface design class in university with Greg Van Alstyne which
    ended up being one of my favourite classes.\r\nI haven't posted any of my work
    yet because I am a rabid perfectionist."
  created: '2007-04-18 07:25:49'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "I was at the pub and this young bloke with a funny accent wlaked in with
    a red t-shirt that said \"I like type\", so I told him \"Mate, your kernings fucked!\"
    and we almost got into a fight. luckily we had a beer (or a few) and ended up
    being good mates and he told me about this place. \r\n\r\nso there you go!!\r\n\r\nMuzz"
  created: '2007-04-18 09:15:51'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "I've only been a member for only 46 weeks a I came across Typophile -I think-
    while googling for a font from Tom Hingston (Metro) that he had designed for the
    the metrolink tram system in Manchester. Beeing a rookie still, shortly after
    posting my first thread I made the mistake of asking if anyone could send me a
    outlined glyph of Nat Vignette for a tattoo I wanted. Now ofcourse I realise this
    kind of thing is a \"big nono\" here on Typophile, so thanks again, guys for not
    shunning me right away ;-)\r\nI'm still merely a font admirer, but since I've
    been on Typophile, I've actually made a few fonts myself (obviously still very
    basic, but bear in mind that it's all a self-learning process for me). I can't
    imagine a day going by without taking a least a quick glimpse at Typophile. I
    simply love this site!"
  created: '2007-04-18 10:08:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\u201C\u2026the wind just kind of pushed me this way.\u201D\r\n\r\nIt is
    an ill wind that blows no good :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-18 13:11:16'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: I'm a type groupie.  I found this door in the alley and I'm standing out here
    with my autograph book, waiting for the stars, all those cool fonts, to make their
    break for the limo. You can learn a lot while you wait.
  created: '2007-04-18 13:20:26'
- author:
    name: andrew_baker
    picture: 110232
  body: "I was going to finish a typeface I had started in college, and I wanted some
    feedback on how to progress. I got lots of helpful feedback. I didn't really work
    on the project, but I continue to visit this site because it's a great information
    resource. People genuinely want to help. \r\n\r\nThanks for everything."
  created: '2007-04-18 14:14:56'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "I came to typophile in 2002 I think. I was taking a class from Ed Benguiat
    at SVA. Somebody mentioned the website in class. From there i started reading
    and posting in the critique section and just look at me now ... pumping out fonts
    at the rate of 1 per decade!\r\n\r\nI second how cool it is to have met so many
    personalities online, and then meeting people at conferences. But for me the best
    part about this site has been, the critique section, and having others keep tabs
    on all the great types around the internets (and posting links).\r\n\r\nThanks
    and happy birthday!\r\n\r\nRandy"
  created: '2007-04-18 19:53:24'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "My story is a bit different from most.\r\n\r\nI was relaxing in my hammock
    outside my jungle hideaway, where I often go to escape the wails of those women
    who cannot have me and the claws of those who currently do or have in the past,
    when I heard a blood-curdling scream from the direction of the river. One of my
    staff of spider monkeys reported in their curious glottal language that a pale
    and wan young man, while boating on the Amazon, had the misfortune of having half
    of his gluteus bitten off by a cayman.\r\n\r\nI moseyed over to the riverbank
    to assess the situation and saw that the aforementioned fellow was barely clinging
    to life, having lost a fair amount of blood along with a significant portion of
    his sitting-down-parts. Realizing that time was of the essence, I placed the young
    man on the back of a gorilla acquaintance and sent him to find a tribal doctor
    before it was too late. Before they set off, though, I noticed the \"Typophile\"
    logo on the injured gentleman's t-shirt and, thinking it would somehow lead me
    to his friends or family, or anyone, for that matter, who would be able to cover
    the not-insignificant projected cost of his poultices and my (very expensive)
    time, I had one of my trained macaws research the word (I don't have internet
    access out in the jungle - satellite is just too expensive).\r\n\r\nThat injured
    young person, of course, is and remains Stephen J. Coles.\r\n\r\nYours most respectfully,\r\n\r\nJoshua\r\n\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt
    : http://www.hewnandhammered.com"
  created: '2007-04-18 20:18:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks for saving Stephen, Joshua. I had thought that you were probably <a
    href=\"http://video.google.com/videoplay?docid=5420471247082411613&q=Dixon+Bainbridge+Boosh&hl=en\">'a
    real live action man'</a> but that you kept on the Q.T. Probably by not growing
    a horseshoe mustache which might give you away. Well, it's clearly a secret no
    more!\r\n\r\nI myself am just a <a href=\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XeEQVJ50GZs\">
    'tundra dweller' </a> as you know.\r\n\r\nI found Typophile because I finally
    screwed up the courage to ask Jonathan Hoefler for help in learning how to make
    type. He suggested I start learning here. What a good suggestion that was!"
  created: '2007-04-18 20:58:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Far F\xFCckin' out! Joshua!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-18 20:59:37'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "I found Typophile after finally figuring out what the fonts were in a copy
    of the <em>New Left Review</em>: Scala + Sans. (The fonts proved to be more interesting
    than the contents of the journal, btw). I started looking for more information
    about Scala online, which search led me to a whole world of typophiles--including
    the big corner of it right here--and when I recognized myself, I fell in.\r\n\r\nI
    registered on the site after winning the FontFont keyword database updating contest's
    grand prize in 2004, so I could post a public thank-you to the good folks at FSI
    and FS Benelux. (I still don't know how I did 800 fonts' worth; I think I needed
    some major off-time after completing my dissertation, and I was feeling a mite
    obsessive at the time.) But my speed and drive have turned to sloth, since I have
    yet to get around to making an avatar."
  created: '2007-04-18 21:16:07'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: I came here because Luc Devroye's site had a link to it. And I'm hopelessly
    addicted to fonts anyway.
  created: '2007-04-18 22:01:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Maurice,\r\nPerhaps your avatar should read \"1-800-FONTS\"? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-18 22:11:23'
- author:
    name: Marc C
    picture: 112221
  body: "I'am here since 9 week and 6 days. A member of another forum told me about
    this site.\r\n\r\nFew person helped me whit my typeface and since then this typeface
    is getting really better.\r\n\r\nThank you"
  created: '2007-04-19 00:00:37'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: Chris, I'm pleased to say I've been hanging around the site long enough to
    say I should have seen that one coming. :)
  created: '2007-04-19 00:11:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I hear the groan from here, Maurice :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-19 00:14:02'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "okay, so i clicked on \"real live action man\" above, and  i ended up feeling
    creepy...\r\n\r\ni ended up here at typophile as the result of poor directions.
    i've been stuck here ever since. but not for nothing. i now know there are more
    than twenty letters in the alphabet. usually."
  created: '2007-04-19 04:21:17'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: ChuckGroth
  created: '2007-04-19 04:21:40'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>so there you go!!</em>\r\n\r\nMuzzer, if you told any other story aside
    from the one you posted, I wouldn't have believed you! :)"
  created: '2007-04-19 04:23:16'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Next week will be my fifth anniversary as a Typophile registrant. (I don't
    say \"member\" because, to my shame, I never forked over the cash for paid membership
    while that was still an option.)\r\n\r\nI don't remember how I found Typophile,
    but I do remember feeling humbled by the amazing collection of talent, generosity
    and knowledge assembled here."
  created: '2007-04-19 04:40:16'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Chuck, that could be because the 'real ive action man' might be a kinda creepy
    archetype. Or it might have been that the hiccups you are having are maing you
    queasy. If anyone else has complaints feel free to voice them by email or here.
    Chuck, I guess you never made it to the tundra...
  created: '2007-04-19 07:56:52'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: I think I mentioned this a few months ago. I googled my own font's name to
    see what people were doing with it. I found scrapbookers, indie comics, and best
    of all, Typophiles.
  created: '2007-04-19 19:28:11'
- author:
    name: katju
    picture: 112419
  body: It was 11 days ago. I can't remember what directed me here, it's all a big
    blur now, love at first sight. The first days of a new romance, when everything
    is still perfect. Somehow I feel it will remain that way.
  created: '2007-04-19 20:57:38'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Actually, I was trying to get to TyrolPhile for information on Austrian snowboards
    and miss-typed the url.\r\n\r\nOnce I got here, I noticed people were writing
    volumes and getting bent out of shape about <em>Joanna, Korinna,</em> and <em>Mrs.
    Eaves</em>, so I had suspicions it was a site raving about B Movie Starlets.\r\n\r\nIt
    wasn't until Yves made a comment about extra long descenders that I realized mostly
    weirdos and perverts frequented the site, which basically is why I tune in from
    time to time."
  created: '2007-04-19 22:20:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Welcome Katju, at least we have not scared you off yet :-)\r\n\r\nNow that
    guy Norbert has become ashamed of us and only visits occasionally but that might
    be due to his prisoner-release program though :-P\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-19 23:45:58'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: 'I don''t think he''s ashamed, Chris -- I think it''s more that he''s just
    way too busy: it''s obvious that he''s found a crowd here to hang out with where
    he feels comfortable.  ;-)'
  created: '2007-04-20 00:47:58'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "A happy belated birthday to Typophile.\r\n\r\nI don't come here nearly as
    much as I should, or would like to, but it appears I've officially been here for
    a year and 27 months. However I think it's been longer as I'm sure I lurked for
    a while, being really quite terrified of type designers in general.\r\n\r\nI may
    have come out from the shadows, though, when Armin Vit said something kind about
    me, like holding out a piece of typographic cheese to a shy cat. \r\n\r\nNow I
    flit in and out like one of those damned pets you suspect of only showing up when
    there's food.\r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2007-04-20 16:42:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I\u2019m sure I lurked for a while, being really quite terrified of type
    designers in general.\"\r\n\r\nPlease don't be terrified and visit often! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-20 17:09:18'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Tervetuloa Katju! The people here are nice and helpful.\r\n\r\nThere seems
    to be quite a few Finns here now. Considering the population of our country, we
    must be over-represented."
  created: '2007-04-20 18:03:08'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Please don\u2019t be terrified and visit often! :-) </cite>\r\n\r\nIndeed!
    \r\n\r\nI am quite sure we would all appreciate & benefit from hearing your perspective
    on type, design, and whatever else you decide to write about. Cheers!"
  created: '2007-04-20 18:06:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> we must be over-represented.\r\n\r\nThat might explain my dual love for
    type and Formula-1.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-20 18:22:25'
- author:
    name: Stephen Lording
    picture: 109670
  body: "Like an awful lot of people I first came here as a student looking for a
    Type ID. And also like an awful lot of people I was stunned by how quickly my
    request was answered! (Although after hanging around the Type ID board for a while
    since then, 24 minutes now seems actually quite slow.) \r\n\r\nI credit Typophile
    as really kicking off my love of type and helping it to bloom. It connected me
    into a community I otherwise would not have been able to find. It's been an incredible
    source of information and inspiration, and an ever present salve for those times
    when you \"feel like you're the only one...\" And it's also been a lot of fun.\r\n\r\nThanks
    to all of you for your words, your passion, your eccentricities, and your photos
    of your cats (where relevant to a thread's topic, of course). "
  created: '2007-04-21 01:45:56'
date: '2007-04-16 19:51:40'
title: Share your Typophile Story

---
