---
author:
  name: dezcom
  picture: 109959
body: "If you were to read an article about [[Opentype]], what would you be most interested
  in seeing covered in it?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
comments:
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Fiddling around with fractions.\r\n\r\nand: language specifics\r\n\r\nand:
    metrics operations"
  created: '2007-04-16 22:45:18'
- author:
    name: cheshiredave
    picture: 110433
  body: I'd be most interested in a demonstration of contextual alternates -- to show
    how OpenType can help mitigate the problems of handwritten and distressed types,
    i.e., the obviousness of repeating letters, as well as delivering unusual ligatures
    where appropriate. This had seemed to me to be a key aspect of TrueType GX that
    was never fully delivered. I guess that leads me to ask, is OpenType an evolution
    of TTGX?
  created: '2007-04-16 22:57:12'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019d like to see a simple table explaining what each Opentype feature
    actually does, and which applications make use of them. This need not extend to
    features not implemented anywhere. It would also be nice to see someone cover
    Opentype features that nobody ever notices or uses\u2014assuming such things exist,
    anyway."
  created: '2007-04-16 23:07:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I guess that leads me to ask, is OpenType an evolution of TTGX?</em>\r\n\r\nMore
    a case of tackling some of the same layout issues from a different perspective.
    The two models are very different -- to the degree that there isn't always an
    obvious path to reproduce the layout behaviour of one in terms of the other --
    but they both address advanced linguistic and typographic layout.\r\n\r\nAt Apple,
    GX evolved into AAT.\r\n\r\nThe other significant evolution from GX is SIL's Grafite,
    which provides a cross-platform implementation based on the GX approach."
  created: '2007-04-17 00:19:23'
- author:
    name: kosal
    picture: 109775
  body: How about an outlined plan of attack for Opentype's mission to obliterate
    Truetype and Type 1? Anyone with me?
  created: '2007-04-17 01:20:15'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">How about an outlined plan of attack for Opentype\u2019s mission to obliterate
    Truetype and Type 1?\r\n\r\nMay be more accurate to say that 18 years ago TrueType
    left his home in Cupertino, California and ten years ago hooked up with PostScript
    in Redmond, Washington. OpenType looks more like her father than her mother, but
    sadly her mother isn't doing so well. On the bright side the family back in California
    has finally come to terms with the child, and has decided to fully support her.
    \r\n\r\n>Anyone with me?\r\n\r\nWell, several years ago, when OpenType was announced,
    there were two or three theorists who claimed that OpenType was some kind of elaborate
    scam to force people to re-license their entire existing libraries in OpenType
    form. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-17 02:11:59'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: What would most interest me would be a discussion of what typographic "features"
    are best implemented through the font itself verses best implemented through a
    well though out applications (typesetting) program. Before OpenType there was
    only the composition programs, but now I sometimes wonder if things haven't swung
    too far the other way.
  created: '2007-04-17 02:20:18'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Well, several years ago, when OpenType was announced, there were two
    or three theorists who claimed that OpenType was some kind of elaborate scam to
    force people to re-license their entire existing libraries in OpenType form.</cite>\r\n\r\nNext
    to those crackpots even <em>I</em> look sane."
  created: '2007-04-17 02:29:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Would aanyone care to name any particular Opentype typefaces that they would
    like to peek under the hood of? In other words, which opentype faces really push
    the envelope and which features in them rev your engines?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-17 03:07:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Local Gothic \r\nBickham Script Pro \r\nTimes New Roman 80,000+ combining
    mark combinations\r\nCambria Math \r\nAmy's rude font"
  created: '2007-04-17 03:16:09'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "i'm most interested in making OT fonts as intelligent as possible, the AI
    angle.\r\n\r\nI'd add to Si's list\r\nDear Sarah and\r\nEd Interlock"
  created: '2007-04-17 03:51:17'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Ed Interlock</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019ll second that motion. <em>How</em>
    magazines recent bit on Ed Interlock really opened my eyes, but it was only mentioned
    in part of a bigger type article. "
  created: '2007-04-17 04:43:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>contextual alternates</cite>\r\n\r\nme too \r\n\r\nAnd specifically
    for Fedra Display & Zaphino I think. And Softmachine too."
  created: '2007-04-17 05:47:22'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: It seems that we Typophilers are really keen to hear about scripting possibilities...
    Perhaps the article could talk about that, if it is aimed towards typeface designers...
  created: '2007-04-17 06:40:16'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Ricardo, I don't think this is just of interest to type designers, I think
    that if the average user realized that there are fonts out there that are essentially
    "smart fonts" they would find that interesting, especially if these smart fonts
    do something cool and unexpected.
  created: '2007-04-17 16:47:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What about situations where a user would like a font to have a particular
    ability to solve a typography issue for them? What could Opentype do to make a
    type user's life easier?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-17 16:57:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sebastian,\r\nWhat aspects of metrics operations interest you most?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-17 17:00:31'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Ricardo, I don\u2019t think this is just of interest to type designers,
    I think that if the average user realized that there are fonts out there that
    are essentially \u201Csmart fonts\u201D they would find that interesting, especially
    if these smart fonts do something cool and unexpected.</em>\r\n\r\nPaul, right
    on. \r\n\r\nBy the way, I think that Ilene Strizver published a good article on
    OpenType features not too long ago, but right now I can't remember if it was in
    <strong>HOW</strong> or <strong>Print</strong>."
  created: '2007-04-17 17:06:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It was How, February issue.\r\nWhat would be something thst you would like
    to see beyond what was in that article? Perhaps more depth or detail in what aspect?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-17 17:10:25'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Paul, I'm one of those \"average users\" and I'll third the request for contextual
    alternatives -- my hubby asked me to identify a font used in a magazine (it was
    Zapfino) and when I showed it to him on the computer, I managed to get it to produce
    four different \"g\" glyphs.  \r\n\r\nThat was pretty neat, but I'd like to know
    more about how to be able to pick and choose specific ones...."
  created: '2007-04-17 17:12:24'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"That was pretty neat, but I\u2019d like to know more about how to be able
    to pick and choose specific ones\u2026\"\r\nInInDesign? place the cursor in the
    doc, open the glyph pallette and pick. You can make a mess out of \"googling\"
    with Z-fino type, and still have a g left over.\r\n\r\n\"What about situations
    where a user would like a font to have a particular ability to solve a typography
    issue for them?\"\r\nThat's what I'm working on but the words are \"users\" and
    \"fonts\" and the issue is a basic quality spacing. ;-o"
  created: '2007-04-17 17:46:21'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I was actually just using TextEdit when playing -- I don't set much work
    in Zapfino, unfortunately, and usually don't have enough time to dedicate to goofing
    around with it.\r\n\r\nMaybe I should make some....  ;-)"
  created: '2007-04-17 18:14:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Paul,\r\nWhat about P22's DaDa face? Is there anything stroked and bored
    under the hood of that puppy?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-17 20:39:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...and the issue is a basic quality spacing.\"\r\n\r\nDavid,\r\nThis is
    one of the areas that interests me most. I would like to see spacing adjustments
    when a word or so of italics was on the same line as roman. The space between
    the two is usually awkward and kerning accross fonts does not look like a likely
    candidate. Care to elaborate more on your work the Opentype spacing arena?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-17 20:43:12'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Linda, note that there is the \"Zapfino\" font that ships with Mac OS X,
    which is *not* OpenType. It is TrueType AAT, i.e. it contains some smartness in
    the Apple AAT (aka GX) format. There is also <a href=\"http://www.linotypefont.com/2762/introduction.html\">Zapfino
    Extra Pro</a>, which includes a load of OpenType contextual features. They will
    work in InDesign, Illustrator, Photoshop, Mellel and even Notepad but not TextEdit.
    (Though in TextEdit, some simple features will work.)\r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2007-04-17 20:44:35'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "well, if you want me to brag on myself, i'll do so. >^p\r\n\r\nThere are
    several P22 pro fonts that are interesting. <a href=\"http://www.p22.com/products/dada_se.html\">DaDa
    Pro</a> does some interesting things, i can't remember all [[Colin Kahn|Colin]]
    put into that one, but there are some features that attempt to create unexpected
    typesetting a la DaDaist philosophy. <a href=\"http://www.p22.com/ihof/mystic.html\">Mystic
    Font Pro</a> (also programmed by Colin) acts as a digital 8 ball when you type
    questions with the 'calt' feature enabled. <a href=\"http://www.p22.com/products/cezannepro.html\">Cezanne
    Pro</a> fixes most types of uncomfortable collisions that happened with the regular
    font as you type. Cezanne also renders a quasi-random texture with alternates
    being subbed in so that a word typed out looks more irregular and more like real
    handwriting. I had fun figuring out the Roman numeral feature that is present
    in both <a href=\"http://www.p22.com/ihof/operinapro.html\">Operina Pro</a> and
    <a href=\"http://www.p22.com/ihof/vale.html\">Vale Pro</a>. Vale also has that
    wacky \"quasi-olde-englyshe\" feature, which is kind of fun. With <a href=\"http://www.p22.com/products/dada_se.html\">Declaration
    Pro</a>, if you attempt to set the text of the Declaration of Independence, you
    will see that the font subs in Small caps, Script, and Black letter in the appropriate
    places, so as to emulate that document. several other pro fonts have things like
    archaic ligatures (<a href=\"http://www.p22.com/sherwoodtype/royalistpro.html\">Royalist
    Pro</a>), extensive swashes (<a href=\"http://www.p22.com/ihof/sweepyreg.htmlot\">Sweepy
    OT</a>), and other hidden fun stuff."
  created: '2007-04-17 20:54:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "1. The possibilities of leveraging the Contextual Alternates feature to create
    new kinds of type design. The stuff Paul mentions is cool and special, and many
    people have done naturalistic handwriting fonts. However, I think that in formal
    terms, this is virgin territory. Bear in mind that the vast majority of OT script
    fonts are implementations of retro styles.\r\n\r\n2. Cyrillic and Greek. Fascinating,
    and not something I would likely have become involved with if Adobe hadn't raised
    the bar, with its bundled fonts such as Minion Pro setting a de facto standard.
    \r\n\r\n3. What is a typeface? What is a family? What belongs in a font, what
    in an application? These are mind-boggling questions. Will all future sans faces
    have single and double bowl \"a\" and \"g\" as stylistic alternates? Of course,
    that's nothing new, but it becomes more fundamental, and I can quite imagine that
    all my future faces will be so equipped."
  created: '2007-04-17 21:20:14'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>Would anyone care to name any particular Opentype typefaces that they
    would like to peek under the hood of?</cite>\r\n\r\nFonts mentioned so far were
    gimmick fonts, good for advertising OpenType because something visible happens
    when using them. This is one end of the spectrum.\r\nThe other end is 'average'
    OpenType fonts, the workhorses. A recent 'Pro' font by Adobe, and one of the new
    ClearType fonts, which may both define minimum standards for glyph set and supported
    features in future.*\r\nThe important aspect would be: In how far do 'average'
    Microsoft and 'average' Adobe fonts differ, follow slightly different standards?
    Compared to these, what are the standards at Monotype/Linotype and FontShop?**\r\n\r\nA
    complementary aspect: In how far does 'OpenType support' differ in OSX vs Windows
    -- vs applications from Adobe, Quark or RedleX (Mellel) which use their own OpenType
    layout engines?***\r\n\r\nI think both aspects deserve coverage, so users of OpenType
    fonts know what they can expect, and what would be too high expectations.\r\n\r\n(Unfortunately,
    I don't know Mrs Strizver's article!)\r\n\r\nKarsten\r\n\r\n[notes]\r\n\r\n* Mr
    Berlow's mention of 'the issue is a basic quality spacing' brings up an interesting
    topic. OpenType is associated with gimmick fonts first of all, your question and
    the font suggestions clearly indicate this. The real merit of OpenType would be
    'invisible' typographic improvements like good spacing, part of which is good
    spacing of caps in all-caps setting to which contextual positioning would add
    a lot. (At the same time, exactly things like these are, with rare honorable exceptions,
    not supported at all in most current applications.)\r\n\r\n** There are differences,
    like tabular lining numerals as default for most foundries, but proportional oldstyle
    numerals in CT fonts, some of FontShops and a few independents. Then it is also
    interesting to see that many recent fonts cover small caps numerals too. Then,
    rather technical things like the fact that some fonts only contain 'sinf' (following
    Adobe's model), others only 'subs' (following MS's earlier model) for inferiors,
    while Adobe applications rely on 'sinf' feature for inferiors but XPress7 on 'subs'
    as I was told, which may result in fonts with apparently faulty behavior ...\r\n\r\n***
    This is important because one and the same font may behave differently in different
    applications which is not necessarily a fault of the font."
  created: '2007-04-17 21:50:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "One part of the story:\r\n\r\nAdobe has released a 96,000 glyph font family
    (Arno), with full Greek and Cyrillic in 5 optical sizes, something that I dare
    say even Christian Schwartz would be hard put to produce that by himself, and
    no doubt Slimbach had a lot of help from others. \r\n\r\nIs type design shifting
    back, away from independents, to those outfits with production offices, or the
    ability to hire production people for open type, extended character sets, etc.?
    \ "
  created: '2007-04-17 21:51:05'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>Will all future sans faces have single and double bowl \u201Ca\u201D
    and \u201Cg\u201D as stylistic alternates?</cite>\r\n\r\nA bit off-topic -- it
    is funny to see that a technique from metal type days, Monotype called it \"three
    type faces in one\", is being revitalized thanks to Stylistic Sets. For example
    Intertype's Vogue had alternate forms which could make it look more like Futura,
    or Futura with early geometric 'k' 'm' 'n' 'r' 'u', or Kabel."
  created: '2007-04-17 22:01:42'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Linda, note that there is the \u201CZapfino\u201D font that ships with
    Mac OS X, which is *not* OpenType. It is TrueType AAT, i.e. it contains some smartness
    in the Apple AAT (aka GX) format. </em>\r\n\r\nThanks, Adam: this is the one that
    I've got.  I poked around with it for a few minutes and was quite thrilled with
    some of the alternates (such a change from the old Mac SE days!) -- just wish
    I had clients whose work demands that sort of diversity, since it would give me
    the excuse to buy fonts with all the bells and whistles."
  created: '2007-04-17 22:09:58'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Fonts mentioned so far were gimmick fonts</em>\r\n\r\ntrue. i guess i
    wasn't answering the question for myself but as what i thought an \"average type
    user\" might find interesting in an article about OT.\r\nto me the most interesting
    part is the ability to effectively focus on the typeface to create ideal wordshapes
    via contextual substitutions (where each letter can vary depending on context)
    instead of just rendering a string of idealized letters (where each instance of
    a letter is exactly the same as every other instance). this principle is important
    in creating convincing lettering (display) fonts; however, i'm interested in the
    possibility that contextual alternates can create better wordshapes or boumas
    (not that they're the same thing) in text fonts.\r\nanother aspect that interests
    me is the possibility of having alternates characters that are suited for specific
    languages or applications. i'm quite excited that InDesign CS3 is going to support
    language tags and some more complex lookup types to enable typesetting for more
    complex writing systems."
  created: '2007-04-17 22:20:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Karsten,\r\nThanks for your contribution. I am glad you mentioned some areas
    that were not mentioned yet! Keep it coming.\r\n\r\n\"OpenType is associated with
    gimmick fonts first of all, your question and the font suggestions clearly indicate
    this. The real merit of OpenType would be \u2018invisible\u2019 typographic improvements\"\r\n\r\nI
    didn't intend my question to focus on \"gimmick fonts\".  My personal interest
    in Opentype is much more in the usability arena. That said, I am looking for what
    others find interesting about it. I am thrilled with the idea of opening letterspacing
    when all caps are set but I would like to see a sampling of many others vision.
    I wonder about setting math and its relation to opentype coding done for complicated
    scripts like Arabic. \"Gimmick fonts\" may be where many people startto look but
    what we learn from these can be applied to more fundamental uses of type. I am
    hoping to get a broad look at all of the interests a typophile may associate with
    Opentype.\r\n\r\n ChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-17 22:33:16'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>but as what i thought an \u201Caverage type user\u201D might find interesting</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    tried to broaden the focus for exactly this reason. If another OpenType article,
    then it should highlight aspects which the reader has not been aware of before.\r\nYour
    remark about the use of contextual substitution to achieve better wordshapes --
    this is exactly the kind of subtle improvement which deserves attention."
  created: '2007-04-17 22:36:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Paul,\r\nThanks for all of your comments!\r\nThe audience for the article
    is typography geeks--not just type designers though. I think that typical Typophile
    regulars are about the right mix. If everyone submits what they would like to
    see as an individual, then the collection of comments should be pretty indicative
    of the sample I am hoping for.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-17 22:47:36'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Is type design shifting back, away from independents...</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    doubt it; most designers do not need huge font sets covering every possible glyph
    that could be used anywhere in Europe, Africa, and the Americas. Most design is
    still produced for consumption in a single region and in a single language, by
    designers who only work in said region and language. Massive fonts like Arno really
    only make sense in a few contexts; it makes sense for Adobe to generate them because
    Adobe is selling to designers worldwide, but Adobe would be have a hard time recouping
    the costs from a new font of such scale if it were only sold on its own. "
  created: '2007-04-17 22:57:12'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> to me the most interesting part is the ability to effectively focus
    on the typeface to create ideal wordshapes via contextual substitutions (where
    each letter can vary depending on context) instead of just rendering a string
    of idealized letters (where each instance of a letter is exactly the same as every
    other instance). this principle is important in creating convincing lettering
    (display) fonts; however, i\u2019m interested in the possibility that contextual
    alternates can create better wordshapes or boumas (not that they\u2019re the same
    thing) in text fonts. </cite>\r\n\r\nAgreed. \r\n\r\nPaul, do you know anybody
    who is working on this now? \r\n\r\nI have been reading about and scanning calligraphic
    sources and have started doing some calligraphy to try to look for what the richer
    contexts might be, and for beneficial ways of shifting the letters. I have to
    admit that a huge about of what I am finding in manuscripts involves simple fusing
    of the forms, especally in gothic textura & burgundica faces - although I do find
    what seems to be useful things now & then.\r\n\r\nThere are also some things about
    the design of Our Type's Amalia ( even though it has no context-substitution that
    I know of ) that have helped to spur related but less chirographic thoughts about
    how letters might vary for better fit. Mostly because the face seems to break
    so many 'rules' - but to quite good effect as far as I can see.\r\n\r\nHave alook
    if you want: \r\n\r\nhttp://www.ourtype.be/pdf/OT-Amalia.pdf\r\n\r\nI did notice
    an interesting altrenate g in a display weight of Fedra ( I got the printed speciment
    from typotheque ) although much of the altrenates there appear to be wonderful
    but very apparent ligatures and ornamental rearangements of letters rather than
    subtle shifts. But I don't know the family well enough to say for sure if that's
    all that's there.\r\n\r\nYou can see what I am talking about here\r\nhttp://www.typotheque.com/site/font_features.php?family_id=19&id=239\r\n\r\n<cite>
    ...this is exactly the kind of subtle improvement which deserves attention. </cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    brought a big grin to my face. Thanks Karsten!"
  created: '2007-04-17 23:36:05'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>do you know anybody who is working on this now?</em>\r\n\r\nwell, examples
    of display types that do this are listed above: Ed Interlock, &c. This principle
    is less used in text types as far as i'm aware. i think it would probably take
    some concerted study to find how much room for improvement there is here for text
    types, but i think this would be an interesting project to work on. i'm sure there
    are some fonts that do this on a limited scope: [[Paperback]] has ligatures for
    rv/rw, but i'm sure there are several letter combos that would benefit from contextual
    substitutions. i think there's a thread here somewhere about that..."
  created: '2007-04-17 23:55:08'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Paul -- Actually, the Paperback combos you mention are contextual substitutions,
    not really ligatures. (But maybe you knew that and it's just a matter of terminology.)\r\n\r\nFor
    those who are not familiar, there are variants of g and r (g.short and r.short)
    that are used in conjunction with a handful of following characters using the
    <em>calt</em> feature. There are also \"short\" variants of v w y. Both end up
    getting called for rv or rw.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-18 13:55:08'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: <strong>Unicode!</strong>
  created: '2007-04-18 15:15:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Kent, can you show us what those look like? I could ask House for samples
    instread if you prefer. BTW I can see where Paul would have said 'ligature' because
    in the article at creative pro which the wiki links to, the illustration is of
    an r & v overlapping. Maybe that's not a technical ligature but it does visually
    look like a sort of 'forced' one. \r\n\r\nPaul, sorry if my earlier post sounded
    like a hijack of the thread. I just started to wonder if there was new news I
    had missed.\r\n\r\nSilas, what do you mean by 'Unicode'? Do you want to know more
    about Support for it in Opentype?"
  created: '2007-04-18 18:29:04'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "see what I mean?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rv_6499.gif]"
  created: '2007-04-18 18:32:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben,\r\nAnything that brings to light peoples interests or experiences with
    Opentype are welcomed. I would not consider your comment a hyjack of my thread
    at all. The area of better letterfit and interaction is perfect material for Opentype
    discussion. I am happy to see it be applied to text faces rather than just mimicking
    handwritten scripts.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-18 19:01:40'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nMy biggest interests in OpenType, as a graphic designer/type
    appreciator, are pragmatically oriented with typographic rigor in mind. I love
    getting a type family that's easy to manage both in file form and menu form, but
    at the same time removes so many of the restricitons that make robust typesetting
    more of a chore on the computer than it needed to be. Apex New, Garamond Pro,
    Estilo, and Bello are all examples of OpenType fonts that I've licensed and come
    to mind.\r\n\r\nI remember having to switch fonts for Garamond at my first job,
    just to use full caps in small caps words, because the small caps were stuck in
    an alternates font. Apex New went from 70 fonts to 14 simply because it could
    collapse small caps and numeral variations. As a user/consumer, I <em>love</em>
    OpenType. I recognize that it isn't fully adopted across consumer (vs. higher-end
    professional) applications, but that should be a matter of time, right? The more
    gimmicky stuff is great and all, but for me what's so appealing is the idea that
    a robust font family is part of the core structure of digital fonts, rather than
    a workaround (alternate fonts). I'm sure font designers are less into that idea
    than I am...but there you go.\r\n\r\nFlexibility and control are big selling points
    for me, but I also like getting the designers' 'recommendations' via automatic
    character replacement, flourishes, etc.. It's a bit like having professional advice
    scripted into the font. In my opinion, they're just plain better to work with
    when compared to their non-OT counterparts."
  created: '2007-04-18 19:15:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Philly Chris :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-18 19:31:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Karsten, Paul, \"gimmick\" is not the right word.\r\nThese fonts are novel
    by virtue of being experimental.\r\nThey are perhaps naive, but these are early
    days for OT.\r\nI would expect such experiments to lead to the kind of thing Eben
    mentions, and I'm developing some ideas in that direction."
  created: '2007-04-18 19:39:52'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "I take the full blame for 'gimmick fonts'. These <cite>are</cite> high-end
    and groundbreaking fonts, designwise and technically, and are in no way naive.
    I am making fun of advertisement and press coverage of them which both evoke the
    equation \"OpenType = Zapfino / Bickham / &c\" which I regard as naive. My dislike
    of superlatives, positive and negative alike ...\r\n\r\nAs to other subtle applications
    of OT features, I think of Tim Ahrens' Lapture and alternate glyph forms: avoiding
    an overlap of two serifs, or Robert Slimbach's Brioso: creating a slightly more
    spontaneous word image, e.g. an alternate 'l' if another one follows (saw this
    in the download specimen)."
  created: '2007-04-18 20:39:42'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Eben -- You're right, the Paperback Italic has ligatures. Apologies to Paul,
    if this is what he was referring to also. I had only really noticed and explored
    the Roman:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PB_calt_4248.gif]\r\n\r\nHmm.
    Interesting that the Roman uses <em>calt</em>, while in the Italic there are no
    contextual alternates and <em>liga</em> is used instead, with true ligatures.\r\n\r\n--
    K.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-18 23:02:51'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "One interesting thing for me would be the kind of interactions that need
    to be thought through when OT might be doing several different things at once
    when turning character into glyph. A classic example might be the <a href=\"http://www.adobeforums.com/cgi-bin/webx/.3bc0dd7d/0\">long
    thread last summer in the Adobe typography forum</a> about the defective behavior
    of Garamond Premier Pro for polytonic Greek. Basically, an attempt to solve one
    possible OT layout problem (making sure all-caps text doesn't have diacritics)
    has had the effect of causing a more serious problem (diacritics not showing on
    caps in mixed-case text) in many other situations.\r\n\r\nI can imagine a number
    of possible pitfalls. For combining diacritics, for example, an umlaut on an \"n\"
    might affect kerning: you would normally use class kerning for \"n\" and \"n with
    umlaut\", but you might want the umlaut positioned a little differently if it
    should follow \"r\" rather than \"i\" - without changing its position relative
    to the base \"n\". It would be really easy to get confused really quickly with
    this sort of thing."
  created: '2007-04-18 23:03:23'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> It would be really easy to get confused really quickly with this sort
    of thing. </cite>\r\n\r\nYou are right, it could be. But theoretically speaking,
    solving for that sort of thing in a fairly optimal way is what you are paying
    for are when you buy the Uber-Nice extra-sweet multiple language support in an
    Opentype font. No?"
  created: '2007-04-18 23:42:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I can imagine a number of possible pitfalls. For combining diacritics,
    for example, an umlaut on an \u201Cn\u201D might affect kerning: you would normally
    use class kerning for \u201Cn\u201D and \u201Cn with umlaut\u201D, but you might
    want the umlaut positioned a little differently if it should follow \u201Cr\u201D
    rather than \u201Ci\u201D - without changing its position relative to the base
    \u201Cn\u201D. It would be really easy to get confused really quickly with this
    sort of thing.</em>\r\n\r\nIndeed. One ends up with contextual kerning or mark
    positioning or some combination of the two. I've done a lot of this in Arabic
    fonts, but the challenges in Latin fonts with combining mark support are probably
    even more significant because of the greater number of potential combining marks
    and combining mark combinations, presuming one is aiming for very extensive and
    flexible language coverage.\r\n\r\nA conference presentation is gradually developing
    in my mind: <em>The Font that does Everything... and why I have not made it.</em>"
  created: '2007-04-19 00:45:43'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "<cite>But theoretically speaking, solving for that sort of thing in a fairly
    optimal way is what you are paying for are when you buy the Uber-Nice extra-sweet
    multiple language support in an Opentype font.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes indeed. But sometimes
    the problem is complex enough that font designers/coders solve it in a way that's
    very far from optimal - like with the polytonic Greek example - because of not
    being aware enough of the potential interactions. This isn't to criticize Adobe,
    but rather to say that if their outstanding team got the OT language support wrong
    in that instance, how easy it is for anyone to make such mistakes when working
    with languages we don't know very well."
  created: '2007-04-19 02:00:14'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> If you were to read an article about Opentype, what would you be most interested
    in seeing covered in it?\r\n\r\nIf \"The Others\" (graphic designers, art directors,
    design directors etc etc ) really 'care' about that; really 'need' 2000 glyphs"
  created: '2007-04-19 02:06:15'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>If you were to read an article about Opentype, what would you be most
    interested in seeing covered in it?</em>\r\n\r\nI would like to see Stylistic
    Sets explained...thoroughly. I'd also like to see some instructions WITH OpenType
    fonts explaining each of them. (But that's a whole 'nother topic.)"
  created: '2007-04-19 04:26:03'
- author:
    name: gordon
  body: "<em>If you were to read an article about Opentype, what would you be most
    interested in seeing covered in it?</em>\r\n\r\n\r\nWhy Opentype is not a platform
    where typographers take advantage of to show off? Also, eg; Why 2000 glyphs are
    actually in there?"
  created: '2007-04-19 04:50:15'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>A conference presentation is gradually developing in my mind: The Font
    that does Everything\u2026 and why I have not made it.</em>\r\n\r\nThat made me
    smile :)"
  created: '2007-04-19 05:45:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> That made me smile :) </cite>\r\n\r\nMe too. But actually it would
    make a good presentation.\r\n\r\n<cite> Why Opentype is not a platform where typographers
    take advantage of to show off? </cite> \r\n\r\nShowing off isn't really the realm
    of type. Type needs to be useful. It needs to work better - not showier - in almost
    all situations. What kind of showing off do you have in mind? Is it more ornamental
    stuff? "
  created: '2007-04-19 08:04:16'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Hmm. Interesting that the Roman uses calt, while in the Italic there
    are no contextual alternates and liga is used instead, with true ligatures. </cite>\r\n\r\nThanks
    for posting this. It was really really interesting to see."
  created: '2007-04-19 08:05:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "So John, will both your \"does everything\" font and presentation both be
    ready for TypeCon this Summer? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-19 13:59:50'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: Here's what I would like catch up on in an article. A progress report on the
    ISO adoption of OpenType, and a comparison of OpenType and Graphite, regarding
    features, adoption and standards control.
  created: '2007-04-19 15:30:22'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "<em>If you were to read an article about Opentype, what would you be most
    interested in seeing covered in it?</em>\r\n\r\nFor me: application adoption plans
    in the next 3-5 years. When will, say, MS Office support the advanced features
    of OpenType? Will it ever?\r\n\r\nFor others: using OpenType to implement solid
    typographic practices. OpenType helps elevate the PC further beyond the typewriter."
  created: '2007-04-19 16:30:14'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/calt_4625.jpg]\r\n\r\nChris, usually
    the customers outside of Typophile buy that because they like and later they mail
    asking why the pack comes without the swashes, ligatures, etc... and why it doesnt
    work on corel or vynil apps. I try with pdfs in every complex release but is still
    very difficult... To me the most important think is to show the real work situations
    of use in design work.\r\nI hope your article help! and if you need any feedback
    or material please feel free to contact me."
  created: '2007-04-19 16:37:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Alejandro! I certainly will!\r\nI am very interested in real world
    issues with opentype. It seems that there are several factors. One is lack of
    support by either applications (like Word) or OSs. Another is a disconnect between
    the users and app developers on how to access opentype features, which is partly
    an interface issue and partly a lack of understanding issue. I am hoping to strike
    at the lack of understanding aspect at least, so we can move forward and let progress
    in development happen. I am sure everyone wants Opentype to succeed but may be
    playing wait-and-see before they act.\r\nI am sure many of your script faces are
    loaded with alternates that are asking to be accessed :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: cfynn
      picture: 112122
    body: "<em>&quot;I am very interested in real world issues with opentype.&quot;</em>
      \r\n\r\n\r\nIn the <em>'real world'</em> OpenType features which support complex
      scripts (Devanagari, Arabic, Bangla, etc. <em>etc.</em>) are probably far more
      significant than the typographic features.\r\n\r\nOne thing that disappoints
      me is that applications which do have support for the typographic features have
      not got very far in supporting the complex script features.   \r\n\r\nIt is
      not that difficult. How is it that <a href=\"http://www.inkscape.org/\" >Inkskape</a>
      - with only a handful of developers and no financial resources  - manages this
      when Illustrator, CorelDraw and Freehand don't? \r\n\r\n- Chris"
    created: '2007-05-06 12:14:17'
  created: '2007-04-19 17:54:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>How is it that Inkskape - with only a handful of developers and
    no financial resources - manages this when Illustrator, CorelDraw and Freehand
    don\u2019t?</em>\r\n\r\nThe developers of Inkskape have the advantage of starting
    from scratch and being able to build their software around components that provide
    support for complex script layout and/or typographic refinement. Developers of
    older applications have a much more difficult task: adding such support into existing
    code bases while maintaining backwards compatibility and not adversely affecting
    performance.\r\n\r\nThat said, I think it's a great pity that complex script support
    wasn't a central goal in the development of InDesign, because that would have
    been an excellent opportunity for Adobe, developing a new product with relatively
    little reliance on existing code."
  created: '2007-05-06 22:20:09'
date: '2007-04-16 22:09:11'
title: What interests you most about Opentype?

---
