---
author:
  name: Nick Shinn
  picture: 110193
body: "It wasn't too long ago that MyFonts announced its one millionth font sale (licence
  sales, really).\r\nNow they just hit three million.\r\nThey've been a Shinntype
  distributor for six years, taking over when Makambo dropped out.\r\n\r\nSo thanks,
  MyFonts, for making it financially viable for me to be a full-time* type designer,
  and also on behalf of the booming \"indie\" font business sector which you have,
  in large part, created.\r\n\r\n*by that I mean I no longer work as an art director/graphic
  designer -- I wish that I could spend more time on type, but running a small business,
  marketing, production, etc., takes up a fair amount of time."
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: And thanks to Myfonts for being such a useful resource for design students.
    The information available on Myfonts is a big help for those of us researching
    type; printed sources for much of the information on Myfonts are not available
    to those of us at smaller schools with limited libraries.
  created: '2007-04-17 22:40:44'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: and thanks myfonts for your keyword search and whatthefont which has helped
    with innumerable IDs.
  created: '2007-04-17 23:27:13'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: yeah thanks myfonts for flooding the market with total fucking rubbish.
  created: '2007-04-18 00:15:59'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>yeah thanks myfonts for flooding the maerket with total rubbish</em>\r\n\r\ni
    was thinking about this the other day and the fact that it may actually be a good
    thing. if all they hobbyists are now selling their fonts instead of giving them
    free on the internet, perhaps folks will eventually stop looking for a free lunch?
    once they see that they can buy crap fonts or well-made fonts for the same $$$,
    hopefully they will choose the better.\r\non the other hand, a customer might
    have a bad experience purchasing poor quality fonts and conclude it's not worth
    paying the $$$ for fonts if the quality is the same as a font that's free.\r\ni
    guess it could work both ways, eh? :^/"
  created: '2007-04-18 00:28:37'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: "\"yeah thanks myfonts for flooding the market with total--------rubbish.\"\r\n\r\nIf
    you bothered to take the time to find out what rubbish is then you might have
    a different opinion. What is rubbish? Is it rubbish because it is a font available
    from myfonts for a low price? Is it rubbish because you don't like it? Would you
    rather get the rubbish for free instead of paying for it? \r\n\r\nI applaud Nick
    for the kind words he has to say about myfonts. The company makes money for me
    which I much appreciate. And I certainly don't make a lot, but enough to keep
    the wolf from the door. While my work is not the work of Nick or Matthew Carter
    or Nevile Brody or Just van Rossum or Martin Majoor or Fred Smeijers or Erik Spiekermann
    or Jean-Francois Porchez or many other fine designers I enjoy doing it. You really
    don't have to trash people whose work appears on myfonts and I can't guess nor
    do I care to what your reasons might be. And I'm not a \"hobbyist.\""
  created: '2007-04-18 01:55:25'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "mate, if you don't agree that 95% of myfonts are shit, then youre  living
    in some sort of dreamworld! I just don't see how it is good ecxept for the owners
    of myfonts sucking up all the cash. Quality control is needed. \r\n\r\nMuzz"
  created: '2007-04-18 02:04:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "98.6% of everything is crap, and 86.4% of all statistics are made up.\r\n\r\n>Quality
    control is needed. \r\n\r\nI think that Laurence and co. highlight the quality
    stuff via the newsletters - Rising Stars and In Your Face. However I for one would
    welcome user-based ratings systems and technical quality reports from every online
    distributor.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si  "
  created: '2007-04-18 03:22:02'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: "Oh so that is the problem. Myfonts is making all of the money. Too bad. Maybe
    simply encouraging mediocrity is what you're complaining about. So if you feel
    so strongly about it why look? Or is what it is that is making you uncomfortable
    is mediocrity in general. Well genius, live with it. It's everywhere. And of course
    myfonts does not make all of the money, never has and never will. Myfonts does
    not encourage mediocrity and they never will. Myfonts has rather strict guidelines
    and they follow them. I am happy, thrilled in fact, that they sell and promote
    my work and that they also sell and promote designers like Nick and many others
    who continue to make a real contribution to font design. \r\n\r\nThe font design
    world is an open market and the best will do well and most won't - everyone knows
    that except, maybe, you. And I am going to say \"thanks\" to myfonts too."
  created: '2007-04-18 03:23:55'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>user-based ratings systems and technical quality reports from every online
    distributor</em>\r\n\r\ngood ideas! i'm curious, si, what kind of things would
    you like the foundries to report on? "
  created: '2007-04-18 03:31:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I was thinking maybe a summary based on errors and warnings from Font Validator.
    I realize this may be a little problematic. '
  created: '2007-04-18 03:44:21'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: maybe some criteria like Ascender used in their <a href="http://www.ascendercorp.com/webfontstudy.html">Study
    of Free/Shareware Fonts</a>? namely presence or absence of various tables (hinting/kerning),
    % of completeness of character sets (particularly Mac Roman and Codepage 1252),
    &c.?
  created: '2007-04-18 03:48:39'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Myfonts doesn\u2019t need a rating system. Fonts people like get purchased,
    fonts people don\u2019t take up an insignificantly tiny spot in a massive database.
    It\u2019s a business based on sales; not an online popularity contest. "
  created: '2007-04-18 04:11:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">maybe some criteria like Ascender\r\n\r\nYep, something like that. An alternate
    might be an independent font certification body. However when we looked into this
    it seemed as if it would need significant long-term support from someone like
    us, and couldn't be supported by certification fees alone. \r\n\r\n>Myfonts doesn\u2019t
    need a rating system. \r\n\r\nYou could say the same thing about Amazon.com -
    you don't need the reviews or the rankings, but obviously they think it adds value
    to their service."
  created: '2007-04-18 04:42:46'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Fonts are too subjective for a ratings system. One man's trash is another's
    treasure. You can hardly blame myfonts for the fact that most of them are crap.
  created: '2007-04-18 04:45:10'
- author:
    name: Jackie Frant
    picture: 109498
  body: "Sometimes I find it very difficult to figure the average typophile here out.
    I'm not speaking of the professionals who have a broader understanding of where
    type use to be, where it is today and where we see it going in the future.\r\n\r\nI
    joined in again with Typophile due to a dafont.com thread. I knew that the majority
    of people had no understanding of the true inner working of dafont, and that was
    a shame.\r\n\r\nToday, some of you feel you must pick on What the Font? Give me
    a break. I've been with them for years. Yes, they sell fonts - yes of all sorts.
    I guess you all mean that foundries like Monotype, Emigre, Adobe, Berthold, etc.
    are rubbish?\r\n\r\nYes, WTF has given breaks to type designers, so they have
    an outlet to \"sell\" their fonts - rather than place them out there somewhere
    on the web. Is that so terrible giving inspiration to the new kid on the block.
    Where will the future designers come from if they are not allowed a decent break.
    Type, some of you forget, is ART. And not all art is loved and apprecialed by
    the masses. \r\n\r\nAs a professional typographer, I lived through grunge type
    and graffiti type - let's really talk rubbish. It is horrible to realize the training
    of clarity and easy readiblity for customers products and then be given a grunge
    type selection for -- body copy. I'm sorry, it's against every moral fibre I have.\r\n\r\nSo,
    are you upset that there is a capitalist world out there? That someone is offering
    a site that you can buy, for immediate gratification, a font? Are you upset that
    before you buy that font you can 1) have people (like myself) identify a face
    you might like to own; 2) Test the font on line to see what it reallly looks like
    and 3) buy it for immediate use?\r\n\r\nOne thing WTF does is help the type industry
    thrive. No one gives any fonts away. When someone wants a \"freebie\" they are
    told where to go -- and I don't mean online to get it.\r\n\r\nMany of the type
    IDs are impersonal -wham bang - here's the font. Some become very personal like
    a year ago when Graham Meade showed up. Here is a very talented person, who has
    away of putting letters together for fonts. He took his time to redesign Koster
    (because it wasn't available) -- Yes, WTF put it on line -- and for all his work
    - six separate fonts -- you can buy it ALL for $6. Graham was ecstatic but there
    is something here for you to truly understand. The fonts on WTF are not all priced
    the same. Many are exactly what the manufacturer has selected. Every Letraset
    font there is the 39.99 that Letraset wanted it to be.\r\n\r\nFor those of you
    that praise WTF, I am sure they thank you. For those of you who have written negative
    things about WTF - well, you do have this site and others. Enjoy them."
  created: '2007-04-18 12:29:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Jackie, there is no average typophile. We are extremely diverse, having in
    common only a love of type--and a touch of lunacy :)\r\n\r\nWTF. The name of the
    company is MyFonts (owned by Bitstream). WTF means, erm, <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/16343\">something
    else</a> to most people on the internet. "
  created: '2007-04-18 13:47:27'
- author:
    name: koeiekat
    picture: 110312
  body: Jackie, [img:sites/default/files/old-images/appl_3435.gif]
  created: '2007-04-18 14:44:49'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">WTF means, erm, something else to most people on the internet.\r\n\r\nBut
    to the average typophile it means <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/WhatTheFont/\">What
    the Font</a>.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-04-18 14:52:12'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Today, some of you feel you must pick on What the Font? \r\n\r\nWTF!? I
    think you need to re-read the thread. Only one person came out swinging at MyFonts
    (Muzzer) and everyone else has been defending them, praising them (how this thread
    started out) or making suggestions as to how they can become even better. \r\n\r\n>But
    to the average typophile it means What the Font.\r\n\r\nNo, WTF means WTF. That's
    why most typophiles don't abbreviate What The Font to WTF, unless they're having
    a laugh. As I recall the feature in MyFonts was originally called something else,
    and Bitstream changed the name to avoid some possible trademark issue - they likely
    picked the rather silly \"What The Font\" name for the same reason as Apple named
    their sound file <A HREF=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sosumi\">Sosumi</A>.\r\n\r\nedit
    - WhatTheFont was orignally called \"Identafont\" See http://www.microsoft.com/typography/links/news.aspx?NID=1029"
  created: '2007-04-18 15:05:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "MyFonts is a great site. I like Simon's idea of having 'user reviews', Amazon
    style, on a font site. It would be logical for any of the 'omnibus' sites--MyFonts,
    FontShop, Veer--to have these.\r\n\r\nBy the way, even on the Typophile ID board,
    which occasionally I peek in on, WhatTheFont is called that,and not by an acronym,
    so far as I have seen.     "
  created: '2007-04-18 15:11:26'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Identifont is another great site, btw, altho I've found WhatTheFont much more
    useful for IDs (but that capitalized "The" bugs my inner editor!). However I like
    Identifont's "fonts by similarity" and its ease of use for the basic character
    set.
  created: '2007-04-18 16:35:54'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">No, WTF means WTF.\r\n\r\nI suppose a joke (or light-hearted comment) that
    needs explaining isn\u2019t a joke.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-04-18 16:40:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"To Market, to Market...\"\r\n\r\nIf you go to a major grocery chain (Safeway,
    et al), you get their take on the food you can choose from. If you go to a farmers
    market, you get many more takes on food choices. The big guys advertise big and
    have the committees to make decisions. Committees can reduce the chances of bad
    stuff going out but reduce the chances of innovative stuff going out as well.
    Sometimes you feel like a nut, sometimes you don't.  When you want to play it
    safe, shop at safeway. When you are looking for something that pushes the envelope
    more, you might try farming the marketplace. MyFonts just gives the buyer options
    and the seller opportunities. When you buy a font, wherever, you look at it and
    decide one way or the other. It is your choice.\r\n\r\nIf there are to be ratings,
    then they should be unbiased and across the board. I mean big foundries get their
    stuff rated too, not just the little guys. Who is going to pay for these ratings
    and manage the database, and insure unbiased ratings? We have Miss America Pageants,
    Best Dressed surveys, Academy Awards, People Magazine popularity contests. Is
    this really helping? The marketplace speaks. If people want to buy Wonderbread
    from Safeway or Mom's Organic 7 Grain Bread from a farmers market, that is their
    choice. Your results may vary but your choice should still be yours.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-18 17:45:47'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Increasingly, now, you can also get Mom's Organic Bread at a Safeway or a
    Walmart. And often cheaper. And that's causing a problem for the smaller retailers
    when the big box stores go in.\r\n\r\nBut maybe the question is, who is Myfonts
    hurting? Is it hurting the independent foundry the way Barnes and Noble has hurt
    the independent bookseller? Does it undercut their prices? If not, then I can't
    see who suffers by their having such a vast selection. Shopping online is - more
    or less - the same wherever you shop. Fonts don't strike me as something you buy
    in bulk, more likely one here, one there for a particular job, so the fact that
    they have such a large collection shouldn't matter.\r\n\r\nAnd it might help the
    independent foundries to have their fonts in Myfonts's catalog and thus in their
    keyword search or WhatTheFont, in order to draw the less-educated font buyers
    to the smaller foundries. As long as they get their royalty..."
  created: '2007-04-18 17:55:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: "To Nick and everyone else: the thanks goes to you!\r\n\r\nAbout a year ago,
    I voiced some of my opinions on the downfalls and successes of MyFonts in the
    <a href=http://www.nicksherman.com/degreeproject/ target=_blank>synopsis</a> of
    my senior degree project in Graphic Design from MassArt.\r\n\r\nSince then I have
    been hired by MyFonts to deal with some of these issues (as well as a whole bunch
    of other ones).\r\n\r\nWith all that said, I must admit there are still plenty
    of aspects of the site which still have plenty of room for improvement, and I
    am excited to be working on these kinds of things.\r\n\r\nMuzzer, I have to agree
    with you that there are many fonts on MyFonts that I personally don't consider
    among my favorites. Ironically, the fact that these fonts get a chance to be seen
    is one of the things I love about MyFonts. As strongly as I may feel about a font,
    one way or the other, I would be uncomfortable if the choice to exclude bad fonts
    were left to a select few. As of now we've used font sales as a rating system
    of sorts, but I must admit that I like the idea of a dedicated, visible, public
    system.\r\n\r\nIndeed, this democratic approach to font sales often reveals many
    diamonds in the rough and enables amazing independent designers like Nick Shinn
    to do what they love. I can't express how happy I am to be able to help with something
    like that!!!\r\n\r\nAlso, I must say that MyFonts is definitely not sucking up
    all the cash. In fact, as far as I know, we give a higher percentage (65%) of
    each sale to the foundry than any other site (anyone, please correct me if I'm
    wrong).\r\n\r\nPlease don't consider this rebuttal a call to end any negative
    comments about MyFonts though! On the contrary, it is very helpful to hear what
    is not working as much as it is to hear what is. Many of the things mentioned
    above have already been considered by the MyFonts team, and might even be in the
    process of being worked on as we speak; but all the same, I'm sure there must
    be things we haven't thought of.\r\n\r\nWith that in mind, please keep the comments
    coming, good or bad! Just know that it is much more helpful for us when criticism
    is accompanied by specifics or suggestions.\r\n\r\nThank you all!"
  created: '2007-04-18 17:57:34'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "I was going to voice my massive respect for the royalty arrangement that
    MyFonts has maintained.  It's a give and take situation to have your work adrift
    in a sea of what some may consider rubbish, but I think the self-promoters out
    there leverage the situation to their clear advantage.\r\n\r\nI'm also very happy
    to see the focused attention to the personality of the folks MyFonts is supporting.
    \ I read the interviews in the eBlasts.  It's always encouraging to hear fellow
    type designers talk about their experience in the business.\r\n\r\nSet style bias
    aside and you'll see that MyFonts is a worthy model for a major percent of the
    font-buying public.  It works and is continuing to work!"
  created: '2007-04-18 18:31:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Increasingly, now, you can also get Mom\u2019s Organic Bread at a Safeway
    or a Walmart. \"\r\n\r\nAnd you can buy some Shinntype and Mark Simonson fonts
    at FontShop too. The big guys are making deals with the small guys perhaps because
    they have seen their stuff do well in the marketplace. The difference is that
    Walmart comes to town and shuts down the mom and pop stores while FontShop and
    Veer just partner with them and don't  interfere with their own or other distribution
    methods. While Walmart may be actually killing competition, MyFonts and Veer are
    promoting it in a healthy way. It even keeps the big guys from sitting back and
    getting lethargic. They see interesting stuff done by independents and push themselves
    to new highs. The biggest winner is the type buyer whogets the best of both. The
    indy guy also gets a bigger voice than he did alone before. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-18 18:53:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Right Chris.\r\nIt could be said that Adobe, Microsoft and Apple are the
    Wal-Marts of the font world, putting their big boxes right in the neighbourhood
    of everybody's font menu -- but it's not really the same, as the indie font market
    appears to be thriving despite bundling.\r\n\r\nWhat I do think bundling does
    is channel the genres of type that are viable in the retail market. As long as
    the megacorps stick to serious, corporate, bookish font development, the retail
    market is wide open for scripts, grunge, etc -- and for foundries that move very
    quickly. So perhaps Muzzer should berate Adobe, Microsoft, and Apple for the \"crap\"
    at MyFonts :-)"
  created: '2007-04-18 19:32:39'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Nick, don't encourage him!\r\n\r\nI'm glad even to see Microsoft and Adobe
    giving their users (the ones who are too lazy or don't have the money or inclination
    to buy fonts) a greater variety than before. Yes, that sword cuts both ways -
    comic sans comes to mind - but at least the average user isn't stuck with Arial
    and Palatino.\r\n\r\nI'll also add that Myfonts \"font of the day\" is a nice
    feature. Today they're showing a pretty script from someone in the Ukraine with
    just two fonts to his credit. If that's not promoting the little guy I don't know
    what is."
  created: '2007-04-18 19:55:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Nick, don\u2019t encourage him!\"\r\nDo you mean me or Muzzer? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-18 20:00:37'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Not you Chris.
  created: '2007-04-18 20:12:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Not disagreeing with Nick but the bundling doesn't harm MyFonts, in fact it
    drives traffic - "Windows user, come for the <A HREF="http://www.myfonts.com/bestsellers.html">Helvetica</A>,
    stay for the Froggy."
  created: '2007-04-18 20:25:20'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>stay for the Froggy</em>\r\n\r\nyou done with that one yet, dez? :^p"
  created: '2007-04-18 20:35:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Come for Helvetica?\" we are fresh out of that Si, How about some Froggy
    instead? :-)\r\n\r\nYou saw my latest last Sunday Paul :-)\r\nRegular, Italic,
    and bold; CE and Cyrillic done--bold italic to come.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-18 20:42:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I just followed Si's link to the \"Best Sellers\" page at MyFonts. I didn't
    realize that many of the best sellers there were from Linotype and ITC! That kind
    of adds a bit to the mix, not only does MyFonts sell the little guy's stuff, but
    the BIG guys as well! Helvetica and Zapfino doin' their thing right along side
    the stuff Muzzer hates.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-18 20:49:00'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: Don't know offhand, without checking, but Frantisek Storm's fonts should be
    best sellers. He is one of the best. Period. And he sells his stuff through myfonts
    and via his own site. Especially good is his revival of Vojtech Preissig's "Preissig"
    font of 1925.
  created: '2007-04-18 22:27:26'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Well, if I had been merely considering it before, this settles it. Whenever
    I finish <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/28862\">Agamemnon,</a> I'll be selling
    it on MyFonts.\r\n\r\nI might even slide my old freebies in there along with it,
    but I kind of hesitate to do that if they might reflect badly on those that I
    charge for. "
  created: '2007-04-18 22:53:12'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: 'Jason, yes, absolutely, get yourself over to myfonts. Looking through your
    pdf files of Agamemnon I must say I like it a lot. And yes, as in your discussion
    regarding your design, Eben certainly helped a lot, but so did many others. That
    is one of the nice features about Typophile in the design section of the forum
    - members will always make helpful suggestions and it is a great forum for learning.
    Some might not like your work but they will be helpful. Just a suggestion but
    Fontographer, though I still use it after many years, can be a bit quirky so I
    also use Type Tool 3 as well as FontLab Studio. Type Tool 3 is great for $99.
    No, I don''t work for FontLab, just like the products. Good luck with your work. '
  created: '2007-04-19 00:32:59'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "PattyFab wrote: <cite>Fonts are too subjective for a ratings system.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    only have several problems with that statement:\r\n\r\n1) Plenty of things that
    are much more subjective than fonts get rated in this world (think IMDB).\r\n\r\n2)
    Fonts are not art, they are a craft - and there *is* such a thing as better or
    worse craftsmanship. (In my mind, \"craft\" combines elements of art and science.
    Architecture is a craft, too.)\r\n\r\nThere are plenty of NON-subjective aspects
    to what typically makes a font crud: incomplete character sets, bad hinting, inconsistent
    stem weights, inconsistent spacing, lack of kerning, not understanding overshoots,
    not understanding that verticals need to be heavier than horizontals to look the
    same thickness, not understanding strokes needing to thin where a curve attaches
    to a stem.... Getting all that stuff right doesn't make a great font, but getting
    it all wrong certainly makes a bad one.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I'm glad MyFonts exists
    and that there are outlets for fonts of a wide range of both quality and pricing
    (which are not synonymous, of course).\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-04-19 00:40:16'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> I was thinking maybe a summary based on errors and warnings \r\n> from
    Font Validator. I realize this may be a little problematic.\r\n\r\nSimon, \r\n\r\nIf
    only Microsoft ever enables FontValidator to be run from a commandline or anyhow
    different so that a project file can be specified externally -- why not? FontVal
    is a useful tool but a \"click only\" one. I have proposed this directly to you
    folks several times and I have just posted a feature request on the <a href=\"http://groups.msn.com/MicrosoftFontValidatorCommunity\">FontVal
    group</a>. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n\r\n(who is also a typographic consultant
    for MyFonts)"
  created: '2007-04-19 00:46:30'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "It's impossible to speak without bias, but I'll try to take off my [[FontShop]]
    hat for a moment and don my [[Typographica]] visor.\r\n\r\nIn his endearing Aussie
    way, muzzer speaks the untarnished truth about quality. Still, [[MyFonts]] has
    a generally positive influence on the industry. It offers a reliable web shop
    for those who are new to type design and want to test the market. There was never
    an easier way to release a commercial typeface to the world than through MyFonts.com.\r\n\r\nResellers
    like FontShop have a different role to play with their foundry selection process,
    worldwide print marketing, and telephone support. They appeal to a different kind
    of market as well.\r\n\r\nThen there is exclusive self-release, which has been
    successful for some. Or even releasing exclusively through one reseller who will
    offer additional promotion in return. [[Veer]] has become famous for this and
    FontShop offers the option as well.\r\n\r\nThere is room for all these approaches,
    and each foundry might benefit more from one strategy than others. So, in critiquing
    any reseller (well, these specifically), it's easy to lob insults and defenses
    (I've done it too), but it's more productive to consider what is best for each
    foundry/designer in question."
  created: '2007-04-19 03:40:45'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: "Thomas I tend to agree with you re type quality as a function of the mechanics
    of font creation, \"incomplete character sets, bad hinting, inconsistent stem
    weights, inconsistent spacing, lack of kerning, not understanding overshoots,
    not understanding that verticals need to be heavier than horizontals to look the
    same thickness, not understanding strokes needing to thin where a curve attaches
    to a stem\u2026. Getting all that stuff right doesn\u2019t make a great font,
    but getting it all wrong certainly makes a bad one.\"\r\nI do think however that
    most purchasers of fonts these days can discern those faults easily, although
    I try to include pdf files in my own stuff so customers can more closely examine
    the things you talk about. As for the specifics of the mechanical stuff, I think
    everyone in the type \"craft\" business is very much interested to a greater or
    lesser degree in creating work which meets or certainly exceeds the demands of
    quality. And yes it can and probably does take years to fully understand the importance
    of the many nuances of type design. I'm one of these older dudes and I've been
    learning for many years and will continue to do so until, you know, that day .
    . ."
  created: '2007-04-19 11:57:27'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Myself living in Berlin, I greatly value and appreciate flea markets and
    generally open-sky markets. Sometimes, I do think that MyFonts is that kind of
    a market square rather than a professionally-sorted department store. On the market
    square, there is usually a load of people selling plastic pens that will break
    before the next refill and cheap sport shoes that will fall apart next month.
    The fruit or the fish there is not shrink-wrapped, but is often fresher than in
    the department store and is preservative-free. And you're actually able to buy
    authentic Chanel as well as the knockoff copy. \r\n\r\nThe owner of the market
    square does provide security, and makes sure that the merchants don't cheat. He
    sorts out the black sheep but does not interfere with their product offerings
    in other ways. \r\n\r\nAmong the buyers at a market square, you'll find the hobos,
    the seniors and the workers as well as the dandys and the intellectuals. At a
    department store, you'll more likely to only find the latter, who know how to
    dress up. \r\n\r\nIn the weak moments of pathetic self-appreciation, I like thinking
    of myself as an intellectual. So I do my shopping both at department stores and
    at market squares. There are people who'll only pick the former and those who
    only choose the latter. And I think it is just fine the way it is. \r\n\r\nBest,
    \r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-19 13:18:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Was that a fish story Adam? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-19 13:45:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>There are plenty of NON-subjective aspects</em>\r\n\r\nThere are some,
    but I wouldn't include most of your list.\r\nTake hinting for instance. Not every
    font needs hinting, and some fonts are impossible to hint. So at some point there
    are grey areas where certain fonts may or may not benefit from hinting, and subjectivity
    comes into play in appraising them. \r\n\r\nThere are different philosophies of
    hinting. IMO, an alignment-zone hinted font makes a mockery of overshoots, because
    even at quite large screen sizes, you get the \"v\" and \"w\" stretched to the
    full height of the \"o\".\r\n\r\nSame issue with kerning. Too much can be worse
    than none.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-19 16:11:11'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>There are some, but I wouldn\u2019t include most of your list.</em>\r\n\r\nwhy
    not? i think as much info as possible should be made available to the customer
    and she can decide which aspects are important and which are not for her own purposes."
  created: '2007-04-19 16:50:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "But Paul, how are you going to describe the hinting in a family which has
    a mix of hints, for vertical, horizontal, and alignment zones, which vary with
    weight? Font by font, with three check-boxes?\r\n\r\nJust saying \"this font has
    hinting\" is not a measure of quality, because people will be more inclined to
    believe that's good, when in fact the opposite might be true.\r\n\r\nHere's what
    I mean about how hinting destroys overshoot, on my Mac monitor.\r\nThe top font
    is Lucida Grande -- the Apple system font -- the bottom is Myriad, both of which
    have alignment zone hinting. The middle is one of mine, where there is no alignment
    zone hinting, and I did that because I don't like the effect you get in the hinted
    faces where the \"e\" is dwarfed by the \"v\" and \"r\" on either side. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hint_6740.jpg]"
  created: '2007-04-19 17:04:11'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "So yay for myfonts, where hacks and hobbyists can sell their poorly made,
    ill-concieved typefaces alongside the 'big guys' andf make some beer money on
    the side? Is this why it is so bloody fantastic?? At least back in the day typefaces
    were considered and crafted, an investment of time was m,made. But now it is GREAT,
    because the floodgates are open. which results in things like this: http://typophile.com/node/32643
    . So good for some i suppose.\r\n\r\nkeep up the good work.\r\n\r\nMuzz"
  created: '2007-04-19 20:36:38'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: "\r\na rating system? Bloody good idea mate! Leave some feedback, might actually
    be helpful. fmyonts has no editorial board or techincal requirements or quality
    control. They gaurantee nothing about what they sell. The only thing they offer
    is access to a large collection of stuff. Amazon is sortof the same, but they
    let their customers to comment on what they have purchased, and they also let
    other customers rate those ratings. This might actually save myfonts from its
    bloat??\r\n\r\nMuzz"
  created: '2007-04-19 23:55:07'
- author:
    name: muzzer
    picture: 111977
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mcd_5113.gif]'
  created: '2007-04-20 00:12:16'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Nick:\r\n\r\nIf you're making Type 1 or OpenType CFF fonts, you can control
    what size the alignment zones turn off at with the BlueScale value. You don't
    have to have the overshoots suppressed at a higher size than you're comfortable
    with.\r\n\r\nIn any case, although there are decisions to be made in hinting,
    I've also seen plenty of fonts in which the hinting was simply, objectively wrong
    or broken. How about a font with a thousand unit em that has a Vstem value of
    over 32K? How about a glyph where the hint simply doesn't align with the glyph,
    or is randomly wider or narrower?\r\n\r\n\"The crud is out there.\"\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-04-20 00:54:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The crud is out there in every market and the market has a way of flushing
    them out.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-20 01:06:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>a higher size than you\u2019re comfortable with</em>\r\n\r\nThat's the
    point I'm making. Comfort zones are subjective.\r\n\r\nAs you say, there are hinting
    errors that are patently wrong, but some hinting issues are subjective.\r\n\r\nThere
    is a distinction between \"hard\" font faults that are malfunctions, such as wrong
    or missing accents or characters, incomplete outlines, or naming mistakes that
    result in menu no-shows -- and \"soft\" font design issues such as spacing/kerning/hinting,
    which are open to subjective interpretation. "
  created: '2007-04-20 12:22:07'
- author:
    name: matthew_desmond
    picture: 110578
  body: "I concur. \r\n\r\nWithout Myfonts, I would not be able to continue focusing
    on type in between custom type projects.\r\n\r\nBravo!"
  created: '2007-04-20 17:51:07'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I think everyone in life should be able to pursue their own happiness, however
    they  may define it. Everyone who pursues happiness should be allowed to have
    it. If MyFonts is allowing some hobbyist type designers just a moment of that
    why hate it? MyFonts is not marketed to just us anal retentive holier-than-thou
    designers--I admit that at times I am one of these. They are marketed towards
    the average person. \r\n\r\nIf you find 99% of what MyFonts offers to be crap
    then you aren't looking very well. I think that it is a huge over statement to
    say 99% are crap anyway. Besides, one person's crap is another person's gold.
    And who is to say that one typeface, while impossibly incorrect in one setting,
    won't work well in another?\r\n\r\nI love to see people exploring life's possibilities.
    Even if maybe we wouldn't ever use a given typeface it doesn't mean it doesn't
    deserve to have life. Afterall, without the highs we don't understand the lows.
    Without the lows we don't appreciate the highs. Life is not about a being level
    all the time. \r\n\r\nIf you rub shoulders with someone who is working on a typeface
    which you think isn't very good, either ignore it -- cause let's face it, it isn't
    hurting you -- or join in and help them see, through your eyes, how to improve
    it. "
  created: '2007-04-20 18:26:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Note that just because I think there are objective differences in font quality
    (as well as subjective ones), that doesn't mean that I think \"lesser\" fonts
    shouldn't exist or something. I think there's room for all kinds. I know that
    if any of my early efforts were widely available, I'd have definitely contributed
    to the masses of less-than-great fonts in the world.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-04-21 08:56:20'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "I want to thank MyFonts also. It's one of the few vendors that has a trouble
    free website. I've had problems with LucasFonts, FontShop, ITC, Fonts.com, and
    Porchez Typofonderie on my WinME/IE 5.5 system. Why foundries and vendors make
    it hard for people to buy things they are trying to sell is beyond me.\r\n\r\nMyFonts
    also has nice sales and they'll even notify you if a font has been upgraded or
    corrected. And if you ever lose fonts, you can go back and download them again.\r\n\r\nI
    must confess that I bought Nick's Goodchild from Fonts.com because they were (and
    still are) selling it in TT $30 cheaper than MyFonts."
  created: '2007-04-23 18:32:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Steve, you are a savvy shopper -- that appears to be a mistake by Fonts.com,
    as elsewhere TT fonts are the same price as the other formats, $129 not $99 for
    that particular family.
  created: '2007-04-23 22:10:13'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Nick, I thought you'd like to know I couldn't actually make the purchase
    online at Fonts.com (my browser and their site don't see eye-to-eye) so I completed
    it by phone. At the time, they told me the pricing was a mistake, but would give
    it to me at that price anyway. Now, about 2 months later, the $99 price for Goodchild
    Win TT is still there (as of yesterday). I hope they're losing the $30 and not
    you.\r\n\r\nBTW, the Font\u2019s.com website is rife with mistakes, such as displaying
    regular for italic, incorrect fonts, etc. which they did correct when I pointed
    it out to them. \r\n\r\nI really wanted Goodchild for so long. I'm retired, and
    was not in the type business except as an avocation. But I know a good font --
    and a good bargain -- when I see it. I really love Goodchild; it's so deliciously
    readable. My only caveat is that the em dash is way too long."
  created: '2007-04-24 13:36:27'
date: '2007-04-17 20:58:01'
title: Thanks, MyFonts.

---
