---
author:
  name: sbobrow
body: there are sooooo many versions of [[garamond]]. can anyone give me the low-down
  on what to use when? thanks!
comments:
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Not ITC
  created: '2007-04-17 23:29:17'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Seriously, tho, Adobe Garamond is very versatile, elegant, understated and
    complete. I think you get more bang for your buck with that one than any other.
    But I recently used both Garamond 3 and FB Garamond (not on the same job!) and
    think those are both beautiful fonts. Garamond 3 was probably the inspiration
    for Adobe Garamond but it lacks the range. FB Garamond is very expensive, as are
    all the Font Bureau fonts. I've never worked with Berthold but you can't buy individual
    weights. And the rest (Stempel, Simoncini, etc) don't have the range of weights
    either.
  created: '2007-04-17 23:33:40'
- author:
    name: illicium
  body: "Just stick to Adobe Garamond.. In my opinion, ITC Garamond is a bit 'chunky,'
    and it has indentations on the stems, which I hate. However, its x-height is larger
    than Adobe Garamond's, so it might be more fitting for smaller font sizes.\r\n\r\nIf
    you're designing for print, use Adobe Garamond -- I do, at least."
  created: '2007-04-17 23:40:20'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: The Berthold Garamond is a very nice alternative to the much used Adobe Garamond.
    The Berthold cut is slightly more open, edgier and quirky. It also has slightly
    less contrast than the Adobe cut I remember. I haven't checked out the Premier
    Pro version yet, but it there are cut corrected for optical size, then the choice
    is one of taste.
  created: '2007-04-17 23:54:12'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "What about Sabon/Sabon Next?\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-18 00:19:23'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: For authenticity, completeness and full-service at any size, go with Adobe's
    new Garamond Premier Pro. Thousands of characters per font, including Greek and
    Cyrillic, several weights, four separate size masters. ITC Garamond is not good
    at small sizes.
  created: '2007-04-18 00:28:03'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "From myfonts.com\r\n\r\nSabon\r\nIn the early 1960s, the German masterprinters\u2019
    association requested that a new typeface be designed and produced in identical
    form on both Linotype and Monotype machines so that text and technical composition
    would match. Walter Cunz at Stempel responded by commissioning Jan Tschichold
    to design the most faithful version of Claude Garamond\u2019s serene and classical
    roman yet to be cut. The boldface and particularly the italic are limited by the
    twin requirements of Linotype and Monotype hot metal machines. Bitstream\u2019s
    Cursive is a return to the form of one of Garamond\u2019s late italics, recently
    identified. Punches and matrices for the romans survive at the Plantin-Moretus
    Museum.\r\n\r\nThe name refers to Jacques Sabon, who introduced Garamond\u2019s
    romans to Frankfurt, although the typefaces that Sabon himself cut towards the
    end of the sixteenth century have a faintly awkward style of their own.\r\n\r\nOf
    the other Garamonds, Granjon, Stempel Garamond, and Berthold Garamond are also
    based directly on Garamond\u2019s work. Garamond 3, Monotype Garamond, and Simoncini
    Garamond, with Deberny & Peignot\u2019s Garamont, are based on the work of Jean
    Jannon, an early seventeenth century French punchcutter whose work was confused
    with Garamond\u2019s early in the twentieth century, a mistake that was not corrected
    until 1926 by Beatrice Warde. ITC Garamond is a distant derivative of Jannon,
    while Ludlow Garamond can be considered an original Middleton design with little
    to do with Jannon or Garamond.\r\n\r\nIndeed, how could I forget Sabon Next? Maybe
    because I haven't used it. Who have used it, and how does it compare to the others?"
  created: '2007-04-18 00:54:08'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>ITC Garamond is not good at small sizes.</cite>\r\n\r\nITC Garamond
    is not good at any size. Plus it looks so dated now."
  created: '2007-04-18 01:04:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "First, learn the difference between Garamonds and Jannons.\r\n\r\nITC Garamond
    is 95% crap, but one place it's passable crap is actually for (very) small sizes,
    as long as you track it way loose.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-18 01:21:09'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: '- Except for the little problem of the fine hairlines. Care to go for 100%?'
  created: '2007-04-18 01:50:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ":->\r\n\r\nBTW a huge question here is: why exactly are you after a Garamond?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-18 03:14:42'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "IMSLTHO the Jannon Garamonds have not fared too well in PostScript. In the
    case of Linotype's Garamond No. 3, this goes back to the Linotron 202 fonts. I
    never use the Monotype LaserComp, so I don't know the how far back the problems
    with Monotype Garamond go. I re-weighted PostScript Monotype Garamond, & worked
    on the ascenders & descenders, in the days when we used Type 1 fonts but still
    ran repro. With the repro-negative-plate process, the type picks up a bit more
    weight. This was the font used in Hendel's <cite>On Book Design</cite> -- except
    that was set (by someone else) without running repro -- Applications files output
    to a film negative, with halftones in place, which meant the characters picked
    up almost no weight. I've since reworked it for DTP printing, but of course, that
    font isn't available to anybody, though it wouldn't be too hard for anybody with
    the correct (old) license to replicate this for their own work. When I did this,
    I kept one eye on letterpress printed specimens of Monotype Garamond. Except for
    the comma, which I can't stand.\r\n\r\nI think the advice to use Adobe Garamond
    is about right. Jannon's fonts were wonderfully quirky, but unless you work over
    the current offerings, they don't print well. "
  created: '2007-04-18 04:01:38'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "One of my great loves is George Jones's Granjon but, like so many designs,
    it did not make it over the hump from metal to digital with any grace. Linotype
    composition in Granjon, well cast, and printed carefully with proper makeready
    on nice uncoated paper, is as nice a Garamond as I can remember seeing, even with
    the limitations imposed by the Linotype system. Great stuff. Not in digital, though!\r\n\r\nSo
    far my choice for digital comp has been Adobe Garamond. I should probably upgrade
    to Pro: I've been using the same A.G. font since it first came out, and it doesn't
    owe me anything by now.\r\n\r\nCharles, I had a Lasercomp with a Penta front end
    and never felt that what we produced could match metal Monotype for good readability
    (we were printing books almost exclusively). Even though it was only 1000 dpi,
    it held its own against a number of the types output at 2540 on the linotronic
    machines, and at 1000 dpi you could really only see pixels with a lupe. \r\n\r\nI
    may be alone in this, but I also felt that the type from the VIP was more welcoming
    and readable than the 202, which produced results with greater resolution but
    more contrasty and dazzling.\r\n\r\nBut that may be my personal prejudice: I would
    always have proofs from linotype or hand type pulled on high-finish Superfine
    rather than the clay-coated Relyon that we were supposed to use, because the Relyon
    was so !@#$% hard and unyielding. Matter set in something like Caslon Old Face
    or Janson would gain contrast horribly, especially in the thin strokes."
  created: '2007-04-18 04:37:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Granjon was in fact B Warde's favorite Garamond, IIRC.\r\n\r\n> at 1000 dpi
    you could really only see pixels with a lupe.\r\n\r\nYes but the difference in
    color and texture between that\r\nand 2400+ is very clear, especially for small
    sizes.\r\n\r\n> type from the VIP was more welcoming and readable\r\n\r\nThis
    is interesting.\r\nI've had this theory that letterpress is more readable than
    offset (at any resolution)* and this is not due to impression (and certainly not
    to irregularity) but the fact that it has this very slight softness, something
    that our perceptual system somehow naturally prefers. And by extension phototype
    -as despised as it deservedly is for all the things it did wrong and all the crappiness
    it facilitated- just might have had an advantage over digital in this respect,
    at least towards the end when (assumedly) the fuzziness was largely tamed. Based
    on your experience and judgment do you think this is a real possibility?\r\n\r\n*
    This part is admittedly not a very original thought.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-18 05:03:06'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "I do think it's a possibility, but I also think there is inherently less
    contrast with letterpress than there is with the same type design rendered digitally.\r\n\r\nI'd
    like to take your softness comment and move it to a couple of slightly different
    arenas: \r\n\r\nThese days in photographic reproduction there seems to be a lust
    for unsharp masking. The apparent increase in sharpness is traded for a loss in
    tonal smoothness. I think there is much to be said for tones being as important
    in the message of a picture as edge definition.\r\n\r\nAlso I am lucky to have
    a really good stereo. I can listen to LPs all day long and never feel tired or
    bored. Although CDs offer more definition and greater dynamic range, I can only
    listen to one or two albums before I begin to feel some fatigue. \r\n\r\nI think
    the analog realm, softer by (lack of) definition, is easier to live with. "
  created: '2007-04-18 05:26:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "When you say less contrast, do you mean the \"color\" contrast between the
    body and the background, or the crispness of the border between those two? Because:
    in the former digital can actually do that; but in the latter digital can only
    do that by... defocusing the imagesetter laser! Just by a hair, mind you.\r\n\r\n>
    ... I can only listen to one or two albums before I begin to feel some fatigue.\r\n\r\nInteresting.\r\n\r\n>
    ... easier to live with.\r\n\r\nThis makes sense to me as well, and I think Nature
    (meaning here the way Nature ends up looking to us) is the reason (as ambiguous
    as that is). The thing is, I think there are ways digital can be made more like
    analog (if never exactly). We just have to take the necessity of doing so to heart,
    instead of obsessing over higher resolutions, finer color control, etc.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-18 05:58:45'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: It's very late, so I'll be brief here. I mean that any given character will
    all have reduced contrast between thin and thick strokes (prob because of ink
    squeeze having a greater impact on thins?)in letterpress printed on uncoated paper.
  created: '2007-04-18 06:29:30'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "As to the softness -- I think I disagree, if you mean the edges of the letters.
    I scanned in some type printed letterpress at 800 ppi (Bembo, by the Stinehour
    Press) & took a look at it. It seems to me the metal type pushes the ink outward,
    so there is a heavier, solid black on the edge of the printed letter. This is
    one phenomena we can't produce with Type 1 PostScript; I guess you could have
    with Type 3, but it isn't worth it. The other differences are the bit of randomness
    with the individually cast letters, and the bit of randomness with their positioning,
    esp. with Linecasters.\r\n\r\nHaving said that, it isn't too difficult to recapture
    the <cite>feel</cite> of metal type. You can't get the feel of letterpress, but
    remember that Linotype metal was only good for about 5,000 impressions; the harder
    metal of Monotype maybe 7,500 impressions. Longer runs meant stereo plates, or
    pulling repro & printing offset. I think we can easily beat the repro/offset with
    metal fonts using todays technology.\r\n\r\nThe other difference is the foundries
    seemed to feel their old metal font designs will sell better if they changed the
    ascender/descender relationships. This isn't just x-height, as it affects the
    fit of letters with ascenders/descenders to the capitals as well. A magazine look
    . . .\r\n\r\nAs to the type itself, it is largely a matter of the contrast within
    the letterforms. Adjusting this isn't too hard. Find a well-printed book, scan
    in a bit at high resolution, & examine how the letterforms look when printed.
    Granjon can be revived. As a commercial typesetter, I have done this with a few
    PostScript fonts, but the problem was most people have already decided that the
    revivals in photocomp (OK, PostScript) fonts aren't any good, so they don't use
    them. I don't sell fonts (or with rare exceptions, even give them to my wife,
    who is a book designer), so they by in large lay idle. The best of the old metal
    fonts could be revived, but I wonder if the marketplace would support this.\r\n\r\nI
    sometime think the reason I prefer the metal fonts, printed letterpress (even
    when printed from stereo plates) was that was how the books I read as a child
    were produced. Anybody remember the \"Freddy the Pig\" books? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-18 13:47:28'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "<em>Indeed, how could I forget Sabon Next? Maybe because I haven\u2019t used
    it. Who have used it, and how does it compare to the others?</em>\r\n\r\nThe difference
    between Sabon and Sabon next is also quite noticable.\r\nSabon Next Regular compared
    to Sabon Roman, the best comparison I can get (from PDF specimen), Sabon Next
    is much more rounded, a bit more heavy, and the general shapes have been toned
    down a bit, as is the contrast.\r\n\r\nAdobe Garamond compared to Sabon Next,
    Sabon Next has a little bit taller x-height, it's a bit heavier, more smooth,
    and I think the shapes are more refined than those of Adobe Garamond.\r\n\r\nIf
    I had the money to buy it ($1200 or so for the Platinum version) I might actually
    use Sabon Next, instead of AGaramond."
  created: '2007-04-18 14:43:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> reduced contrast between thin and thick strokes\r\n\r\nOh. Well digital
    can obviously match that.\r\n\r\n> Linotype metal was only good for ...\r\n\r\nBut
    foundry type is much more durable, so...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-18 15:38:59'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>But foundry type is much more durable, so\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nso not
    only does it take forever to set, but you run out of sorts, have to set a while,
    print a while, redistribute the type, set awhile . . . and go blind, get too much
    lead in your system, & die young."
  created: '2007-04-18 16:35:11'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "\"...and go blind, get too much lead in your system, & die young\"\r\n\r\nSounds
    like a rockstar death... cool!\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2007-04-18 20:02:26'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: ITC faces in Manhattan have become logo faces on Vans like XYZ Plumbing. I
    doubt they are useful for much of anything but logos. Patty sites they look dated
    and I agree. Maybe has one ITC face they think works for text, I would like to
    see an example of that (that wasn't produced in the '70s or earlier).
  created: '2007-04-18 20:20:46'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: I forgot to mention that I think one of the other big differences with letterpress
    printing is the inks. And modern, politically correct offset inks aren't as good
    as the older 1980s offset inks. But I gotta admit they stink a whole lot less.
    I couldn't stand to be in a offset printing plant in the 1980s. Letterpress inks
    I actually find a pleasant smell. They look better, too.
  created: '2007-04-19 01:54:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Not too long ago I read a novel in Granjon--must be digital--and found it
    very pleasant. It had a rhythm to the characters that was lovely. \r\n\r\nAdobe
    Garamond is a triumph, and probably Premier is even better, but I haven't got
    it. \r\n\r\n>letterpress printing is the inks\r\n\r\nI that brings me back to
    one of my pet theories: that letter press ink was blacker on the page. This was
    rejected by a knowledgeable printer I told this theory to. But I recently looked
    at old letter press print and compared it to offset, with a 50 x magnifier (low
    magnification microscope). The letter press had some whitish veins running through
    it--fibers--but offset looked like granite, with white and black flecks throughout.
    Was I actually seeing the digital dots? Whether there is more of letterpress ink
    on the page, or digital offset is actually speckles--whatever the cause--digital
    offset looks greyer to my eyes. And worse. \r\n\r\nCan you shed any light on this
    issue Charles?"
  created: '2007-04-19 02:33:37'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Adobe Garamond Premier almost makes me want to go back to being a graphic
    designer or art director. It's really beautiful. One regret I have now that I'm
    mainly doing type design, I don't get to use other people's fonts very often.\r\n\r\nI've
    always been a fan of the early twentieth century Garamond (Jannon) revivals: ATF
    Garamond and Lanston Garamont. Linotype's Garamond 3 has always seemed to be a
    second-rate version of ATF Garamond."
  created: '2007-04-19 02:46:42'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "As to seeing the dots of digital type being the difference, no. Some of the
    old photocomp type we set (repro) looked quite gray when printed. I use to complain,
    but was told it was more than the ink/water balance; it was the ink itself.\r\n\r\nBut
    it is true that the paper fibers & dust seem to show through more with offset/text
    stock (not so much with coated stocks, obviously). I'm no ink expert, but I think
    the letterpress inks were thicker, and as I said earlier, I know they were pushed
    out to form a blacker edge, even though the center of the letter was lighter.\r\n\r\nSo
    in addition to the inks, the paper may be another factor.\r\n\r\nBut as to what
    you <cite>can</cite> do with uncoated paper, if you ever get a chance to look
    at <cite>South Street</cite> by Barbara Mensch (Columbia University Press), take
    a look at the photographs. These are duotones we did, black & brown, not double
    black. What we wound up doing was profiling the printer's proofer, and adjusted
    the dotgain for that. The printer did have to match their own proofer, of course.
    Anyway, I think these are nice blacks, esp. for an uncoated stock. (Finch Smooth
    Text Opaque, Vanilla). Inks were Process Black, &  Pantone 4655 U. In passing,
    the type was bumped 2/1000s over foundry, but it is a real old version, so newer
    ones may be different.\r\n\r\nEven so, the dynamic range of the original photos
    was way more than what you can achieve with ink on paper, so some HRD compression
    techniques were used in preparing the scans.\r\n\r\nI'll allow this is an exceptional
    sheet for an uncoated stock, not so much for it's feel, but it's ability to hold
    blacks.\r\n\r\nThe old pressmen I knew used to say that with letterpress, the
    ink is <cite>in</cite> the paper, with offset, it is <cite>on</cite> the paper.
    While this is technically sort of backwards, it does capture the feel of letterpress.\r\n\r\nEdit:\r\n\r\nP.S.
    Mark, my grumble with AG Premier Pro is that the descenders are a bit too short.
    If they would offer longer descenders, I'd be a  happier camper. If the descenders
    currently balance with the ascenders, then I have two grumbles. But I haven't
    used it yet, just compared it to our AG. \r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: malcolm
      picture: 109919
    body: "I think Garamond96DTPro is just great, but then I am a bit biased.\r\nhttp://www.dtptypes.com/opentypepros.htm"
    created: '2007-04-19 16:09:51'
  created: '2007-04-19 03:08:54'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "<em>Whether there is more of letterpress ink on the page, or digital offset
    is actually speckles\u2014whatever the cause\u2014digital offset looks greyer
    to my eyes. And worse.</em>\r\n\r\nCharles is right, as far as I know, that letterpress
    ink is much thicker then offset-ink. Offset ink is more oily-textured, it can
    almost be poored. While letterpress ink is much more solid, you practically have
    to scoop it out of the can. At least the inks I have used. So I guess offset ink
    is much better distrubuted across the surface of the printed characters. Letterpress
    ink too, but by a lesser extent, so less paper shows through. And don't forget
    the impression letterpress might leave on the paper, that can also create small
    'shadows', that make the image darker and also press the ink into the paper (like
    Charles also mentioned)."
  created: '2007-04-19 17:38:54'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I'll add another voice behind Garamond Premier Pro.
  created: '2007-04-19 18:37:34'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "I\u2019m a bit late getting into this, and I must start by saying that I
    am apparently no fan of \"Garamond\" types. Over the past 12 years I have probably
    designed around 250 books, and I doubt I have used \"Garamonds\" more than 12
    times.\r\n\r\nBut I do have a few comments, following some of the tangents this
    thread has taken.\r\n\r\n**  Given that I don\u2019t care for Garamonds, I will
    say I have found Adobe Garamond a pretty dull face. It has not enough vigor or
    color for me. I have resisted its use, submitting only when pressed. But after
    all this high praise, I shall listen to you all and give it a closer look.\r\n\r\n**
    \ Monotype Garamond. Now there\u2019s a typeface that dances and is a joy to look
    at! When I worked in letterpress I had lots of it, and loved it for job work.
    I did not then use it for text setting. But I do recommend you look at the work
    charles_e has set in it. He has made the face work really well. Maybe he can list
    some ISBNs.\r\n\r\n**  I\u2019m really glad to see charles_e contributing here.
    If you are interested in how to set books well, pay attention to what he says,
    and try to look at some of his books. He has put a lot of effort into this craft,
    and has done significant work.\r\n\r\n**  Garamond 3 may not be the perfect Garamond,
    but I see it is the one I use most. Its letterfit is a bit wonky at times, but
    for a PS face it has good offset color. I find I use it for books dealing with
    American arts of the 1900s-1920s, when the original face was used a lot: F. Scott
    Fitzgerald, Sinclair Lewis, Cass Gilbert. But not  for academic work.\r\n\r\n**
    \ INK: I can tell you from 20 years of working in commercial letterpress book
    printing shops that by and large letterpress ink is thicker than the juice used
    in offset presses. But there is a lot of variation among letterpress inks. Much
    depends on paper, press, density of forme, and the overall intent of the designer
    and / or the production manager. At times I have used two different blacks in
    one job. Say: one black for type, another for woodcuts. Whether or not ink is
    well-distributed almost always depends on the skill of the press operator. And
    as an \"old pressman\" I can say to Charles that the other old guys were right:
    the very nature of relief printing does indeed push letterpress ink \"into\" the
    paper, while offset lays it \"on\" the sheet.  Depending on the sheet, some offset
    ink will, of course, be absorbed into the paper.\r\n\r\n**  as for the \"color\"
    of letterpress vs. offset, Charles is right. That little ink spread is responsible
    for the good density of black. & that disappeared with generations of photo and
    computer type because it was not added into the letter shapes. Type designers
    now know about that and are making types that can yield the equivalent of letterpress
    blackness. Thank goodness. But much still depends on presswork.\r\n\r\n**  Paper.
    Let me second Charles on the Finch vanilla. I have just done two books on it.
    It is a wonderful sheet for that illustrated book that does not want coated stock,
    but demands something better than the standard text offerings. \r\n\r\n**  and
    finally: Hrant never got an answer to: \"Why exactly are you after a Garamond?\"\r\n\r\nOK.
    That\u2019s it for me tonight. The mescal glass is empty & I must go to bed.\r\n\r\npowers\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-20 04:48:15'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: 'Will, thanks for the kind words. The only book I <cite>remember</cite> being
    printed DTP with the Monotype Garamond adjusted for that is <cite>Conjectures
    of Order: Intellectual Life and the American South, 1810--1860.</cite> by Michael
    O''Brien. There are two volumes. The ISBN for vol 2 is 0-8078-2800-9. But unless
    you just happen to be in the Library with some spare time . . . '
  created: '2007-04-20 14:26:30'
- author:
    name: Addison Hall
  body: "Don't forget that there are a few \"Garamond-inspired\" designs of that period,
    or close to it, that may be of interest.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.mvbfonts.com/html/fonts/verdigris/pk_verdigris.htm\">MVB
    Verdigris</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fountain.nu/catalogue/monteverdi.asp\">Monteverdi</a>
    and <a href=\"http://www.fountain.nu/catalogue/montrachet.asp\">Montrachet</a>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/carter_cone/itc_galliard_cc/\">Galliard</a>\r\n\r\nI've
    heard that Abrams <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/abramslegacy/augereau/\">Augereau</a>
    is nice, but I've never seen it used.\r\n\r\nAnd while <a href\"http://www.psyops.com/html/spec_philomela.html\">Philomela</a>
    may be inspired by types from an earlier period than Garamond, it's a great Renessaince
    type -- I just used it for a small project.\r\n\r\nThese are just a few, but I'm
    sure there are more."
  created: '2007-04-22 00:07:04'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Hey Sandy, I think those respondents here who are turning the question around
    and saying 'why? what are you using it for?' deserve an answer... \r\n\r\nI say
    this because typeface choice is contextual to the job in hand \u2013 and that
    includes the differences between one Garamond and another.\r\n\r\nMuch of the
    discussion here focuses on letterpress book production; this is what the Garamonds
    were traditionally used for, so fair enough, I see the Jannon-based ATF and Monotype
    Garamonds rightfully praised for their appearance in text setting, but if (for
    example) you are designing a big poster about cheesy 1980s corporatism, then the
    ITC Garamond (hideous tho' it is), might be entirely appropriate.\r\n\r\nMyself,
    I would tend to use the Sabon and the Stempel Garamond in preference to anything
    else, assuming the job <em> had</em> to be set in a Garamond of some kind, but
    (shameless plug) there is more information about the many versions <a href=\"http://www.100types.com/100types.com.4garamond.html\">here...</a>\r\n\r\nTo
    add to what Addison Hall's just said, the 'Poliphilus' (facsimile rendering) of
    the Garamond scene would have to be Paul Shaw's <a href=\"http://www.letterspace.com/LETTERPERFECT_FONTS/old_claude.htm\">
    Old Claude LP.</a>"
  created: '2007-04-22 02:00:05'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Galliard I think is actually based on Plantin and the italic may be chancery
    style... on my fonts it says it's based on Granjon.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2007-04-30 22:38:34'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Galliard seems modelled more after 16th- and less 15th-century contrast and
    details.
  created: '2007-04-30 22:40:18'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Ok, I read a bit and now I know Plantin was designed by Granjon.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2007-05-07 04:59:55'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: '  '
  created: '2007-05-18 22:13:10'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "I do like the original Garamont (made by Jannon I believe) of the Imprimerie
    Nationale Paris a lot.\r\nI did my first steps of drawing letters (by hand) with
    a beautiful specimen they had sent to me.\r\n\r\nDigital Garamonds? \r\nAs someone
    said in this discussion almost none that made it with grace to the digital age.\r\nOnly
    exception for me is the very fine FontBureau version. Yet, the italic isn\u2019t
    convincing to my eye.\r\nThe roman is very charming but in fact very thin so one
    may have to think about for using it in text in masses.\r\nIts particularly beautiful
    for example making a classic stationery, letterheads etc.\r\n\r\nAdobes Garamond
    is like almost all Adobe creations very good but nothing special. Little charm.\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2007-08-10 13:21:33'
- author:
    name: mondoB
  body: 'Adobe Garamond is certainly a safe choice, but I feel it''s just a tad delicate
    below 10 point and so I usually use Stempel Garamond with oldstyle figures (its
    liner figure for zero is just too strange). Garamond Three is too small for most
    use, and Simoncini Garamond, though elegant, is even more delicate in its fine
    strokes than Adobe Garamond, and its wide letterforms come close to the disastrous
    proportions that doomed ITC Garamond. Sabon, among Garamonds, is unique and outstanding:
    it''s Garamond, and yet it isn''t. It''s a true miracle among postwar typefaces
    for wide editorial use, and for book designs, only Adobe Janson Text works better.
    And if you want historically literate versions of Garamond, you need look no further
    than Storm Foundry in Prague, carried on MyFonts.'
  created: '2007-08-14 07:10:27'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: Is adobe garamond not available as a Pro font yet? I thought is was. That
    would mean there is a caption weight (style/cut?) that should eliminate some of
    the fineness at the smaller sizes.
  created: '2007-08-14 16:20:34'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: While I still like Adobe Garamond, it has been outmoded by Garamond Premier
    Pro. GPP does have caption weights.
  created: '2007-08-14 20:06:19'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "I don\u2019t like Sabon.\r\nIt\u2019s too clean, too German. Too open also.\r\n"
  created: '2007-08-15 07:03:54'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Lanston Garamont - I'd like to see this now that LTC has re-issued it digitally.
    It's a Jannon, but it looks like it has that quirky Goudy feel to it.\r\n\r\n@ben_archer\r\n\r\nI
    LOVE Old Claude LP. I has a touch of that real oldstyle feel, without so going
    overboard on the \"distressed\" look that it is totally cheesy."
  created: '2007-08-16 08:41:49'
- author:
    name: MHSmith
    picture: 111858
  body: I think what I like best in Sabon, and something that has disappeared in the
    more historical Sabon Next, is the anti-kerning dagger-shaped italic f. Quite
    a German idea I suppose, with Fraktur (or gothic cursive) lurking in the background.
  created: '2007-08-16 15:18:19'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Marc,\r\n\r\nThe sharp f in Sabon is actually an artifact of Linotype's metal
    typecasting technology. Lines of Type (Linotype) mean all the matrices have to
    be assembled first, and then a single piece of type, containing the whole line
    of glyphs, is cast. This meant there could be no overhanging kerns, and it also
    meant the Italic or Bold, whatever was duplexed on the matrices, had to match
    the roman widths. Optima, Palatino, Melior, Caledonia, Electra, and other classic
    Linotype faces designed in the metal era had this constraint. Some designers met
    the challenge so well we don't notice the unusually narrow italic f, but with
    a classic design like Garamond as a model, the Sabon f had to stand out. "
  created: '2007-08-17 02:08:06'
- author:
    name: Robert Trogman
    picture: 111573
  body: Garamond No.3 is the Linotype version of ATF GAramond. The ATF version still
    suits me fine.
  created: '2007-08-17 05:23:45'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/3474/garamondfontfeature.html\">Some clarification</a>
    about some of the many \"Garamonds\"\u2026"
  created: '2007-08-17 08:33:09'
- author:
    name: Steve Tiano
  body: "I bought Adobe Garamond in 1990, as part of a Christmas software\u2014tho',
    of course, not strictly software if you think of that as <em>programs</em>\u2014buying
    spree for myself in my last holiday season as a single person. I bought it because
    I loved how it looked\u2014just a really elegant typeface. Same for Adobe's Futura
    1 family, tho' I imagine I could get more argument there. (Actually, I bought
    the teo together in that selfish shopping spree.)\r\n\r\nAnd, although I've retired
    straight AG in favor of Adobe Garamond Premier Pro\u2014yes, indeed, wider assortment
    of glyphs\u2014I haven't used it in a book in ages, either of my own design or
    in the majority of my work lately, straight layout jobs (where the design was
    part of a long-established series or house style of the client). ITC Slimbach
    is one that's been used.\r\n\r\nI just recently used ITC Usherwood for an illustrated
    children's story book on which I did page design and layout. I was <em>very</em>
    pleased with how it looked on the page, as was my client, a self-publisher. I
    actually used Medium, rather than Book, for the body type. Normally, that'd be
    an unusual choice. But for a book geared towards 6- to 8- or 9-year olds, I though
    the slightly heavier appearance worked nicely. A nice, large x-height and not
    a great deal of contrast in the ever-so-slight thickening and thinning of vertical
    to horizontal."
  created: '2007-08-18 12:27:24'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Personally, I don't feel Garamond Premier renders Adobe Garamond obsolete.
    The former is a more restrained and modernized interpretation, and the latter
    is a more directly authentic revival. There's room for both, and more besides.\r\n\r\nOf
    the various non-Adobe takes on the original Garamond types, I find the Monotype
    and Berthold versions both quite good.\r\n\r\nOf the Jannon revivals, I have a
    fondness for both Granjon and Garamond #3 (or ATF Garamond). I've recently been
    introduced to Linotype Estienne, which is also interesting, if rather quaint and
    not available in digital form.\r\n\r\nIn related typefaces, I'll put in another
    good word for MVB Verdigris. It's a first-rate book face.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-08-20 03:19:15'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "To my eyes, Monotype Garamond looks more like it belongs to the Jannon branch
    of the tree, rather than a historically accurate Garamond. I believe the Stempel
    Garamond (shipped mostly under the Linotype name) was really the first revival
    to accomplish the latter goal, and its craftsmanship still wears well today.\r\n\r\nI
    think the space of Garamond revivals is about mined out, now that there are quite
    definitive examples of the each of the major categories of revivals (and thanks
    to Si for posting a link to <a href=\"http://www.emigre.com/Editorial.php?sect=2&id=1\">Call
    It What It Is</a> in another thread). But if one were to do a new revival, I think
    one based on Guillaume Le Be's beautiful model might be worthwhile. I played around
    a little bit with this, but that attempt now looks crude and amateurish to me.\r\n\r\nBut
    as I said, I'm not very likely to come back to it. I don't there's very much more
    that remains to be said in the area of Garamond revivals, though I would be happy
    for someone to come along and prove me wrong."
  created: '2007-08-20 05:54:14'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>Is adobe garamond not available as a Pro font yet? I thought is was.
    That would mean there is a caption weight (style/cut?)</cite>\r\n\r\nAdobe Garamond
    Pro was one of the first OpenType font families shipped -- but the \"Pro\" label
    doesn't necessarily mean it has optical sizes (which it doesn't). The \"Pro\"
    label means, for Adobe fonts, that its character set supports (at least) Central
    European languages in addition to the usual basic, Latin character set."
  created: '2007-08-21 02:10:52'
date: '2007-04-17 23:19:10'
title: garamond anyone?

---
