---
author:
  name: joeking_tp
body: "I think David Carson maybe be the most influential designer of the 90s.\r\nBut
  is he the best designer of the 90s?\r\nWho was the best designer of the 90s?"
comments:
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Stefan Sagmeister?
  created: '2007-04-18 19:54:18'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019m a big dog person, so I\u2019ll say it was whoever came up with those
    \u201CYo Quiero Taco Bell\u201D advertisements featuring the talking chihuahua
    ;b\r\n\r\nThis thread is going to get nuts..."
  created: '2007-04-18 19:56:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Toyota.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-18 19:56:26'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Me.\r\n\r\nThe best designers work in obscurity.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-04-18 20:16:40'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: You don't fool me anymore, Paul, you're a musician in a designer disguise.
    I'm the real thing, a designer in a DTP-suit ;-p
  created: '2007-04-18 20:20:27'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "The disguise isn't very good although my beret fits just so\u2026 :)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-04-18 20:25:31'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Then you're disqualified whatsoever!
  created: '2007-04-18 20:27:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Come on, neither of you guys are wearing black suits so you miss the cut
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-18 20:52:53'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Good Lord - I didn't realize I had my webcam turned on. How embarassing\u2026\r\n\r\nBut
    since we're on the subject - how do you like my Dali 'stache? ~(\u2022_\u2022)~\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-04-18 20:55:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You need more wax in it man!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-18 22:07:41'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: designer? paula scher. type designer? i dunno-- matthew carter?
  created: '2007-04-19 04:05:28'
- author:
    name: norrie
  body: "I remember loving Vaughan Oliver in the 90s.\r\n\r\n-----\r\n<a href=\"http://www.chorusdesign.com\">Graphic
    Design Sydney :: Chorus Design</a>"
  created: '2007-04-19 04:57:04'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: "So, I'm a long time lurker first time poster.  You know how that goes.\r\n\r\nDavid
    Carson was the most influential designer of the 90's because he was the best designer
    of the 90's.  Why was he the best?  He turned things upside down.  He threw up
    his middle finger at the establishment.  He pissed off everyone.  He was the epitome
    of 90's culture.  And like it or not, his influence still lives on.  His innovative
    use of type is still all over the place.  Especially grunge, which he may not
    have invented but he sure did perfect.\r\n\r\nI'm pretty much the biggest David
    Carson fan on the face of the earth so I am just a little more than biased.  His
    work inspired me to start designing, though, so I owe him a huge debt.  He may
    not be as relevant today as he was 10 or 15 years ago, but he left a mark."
  created: '2007-04-19 04:59:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Carson couldn't have been the best designer of the\r\n90s because he's not
    a designer, he's an artist.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-19 06:18:39'
- author:
    name: malbright
    picture: 111180
  body: "hrant,\r\nI was unaware that being an artist and a designer are mutually
    exclusive. In your mind, what's the difference?"
  created: '2007-04-19 08:08:18'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "A designer analyses a problem and defines its solution.\r\n\r\nThats my take
    on Gerrit Noordzij's definition. But you can see where a designer is not the same
    as an artist, because an artist doesn't do solutions, right?\r\n\r\n(And David
    Carson is not a designer because he doesn't care about the reader, imho)"
  created: '2007-04-19 11:02:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Artist and designer are not mutually exclusive, but they are also not the
    same thing. In Carson's case, he is an excellent artist and a crap designer. He
    is extravagantly admired by students and others who appreciate art, and not design.
    \r\n\r\n[Edit: for more views of Carson see <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/29768\">this
    thread</a>.] \r\n\r\n>an artist doesn't do solutions, right?\r\n\r\nArtists also
    do challenging and difficult problem-solving, but the primary goal is self-expression
    or communication of a personal vision. Designers serve other useful purposes as
    well, and the designer's desire for self-expression is subordinate to those other
    purposes--such as communication of the meaning of a text.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I
    love art, but I also fascinated with how other problems can be solved in a beautiful
    way--design. Art is something we take time from our lives to experience, whereas
    design is part of the warp and woof of everyday life.  "
  created: '2007-04-19 13:46:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "My view on this is very close to William's.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-19 14:50:34'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "just remember: jpad called it.\r\n\r\nbut i'll weigh in on this subject--\r\nmutually
    exclusive? no. but then, i don't think plumber/artist, train conductor/artist
    are mutually exclusive."
  created: '2007-04-19 14:52:07'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "I guess I'm thankful that I missed out on the whole David Carson mania during
    the \u201990s. The type designer that turned me on the most during that decade
    was Jim Parkinson. "
  created: '2007-04-19 15:58:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"He turned things upside down. He threw up his middle finger at the establishment\"\r\n\r\nI
    would hardly call the \"Surfer dudes\" who were his audience, the establishment.
    His work was for a very select vertical market whose culture was counterculture.
    If he wanted to thumb his nose at the establishment of his audience, he would
    have made \"Raygun\" look  like \"Ladies Home Journal\". There were plenty of
    folks out there who either did or could have done way-out stuff but were never
    \"found\" by the popular media. Carson might have gone on in obscurity as well,
    just like the others, but he was \"discovered\" by mainstream folks who decided
    it would be sheek to pay homage to him. He got lucky and caught a big wave\u2014he
    hung 10 and rode that puppy until his 15 minutes of fame ended. I am not saying
    he is either a bad designer, a bad person, or an opportunist. He is a bright guy,
    an artist, and just followed the current that opportunity sailed him in. He was
    not a designer though. He was a painter of pages with whimsy and joy, not a communication
    problem solver. I wish him well and a happy life. Most of us will never get a
    chance to peer through the curl he did and come out smiling. \u201CLay on McCarson!\u201D\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: thetophus
      picture: 112453
    body: "More on Carson...\r\n\r\nIt's true that he's more of a graphic artist as
      opposed to a designer, but this means his design work had an artistic bent to
      it.\r\n\r\nAs far as his audience, sure it started out with the surfers and
      the alt community who read Raygun.  It went on past that, though.  What I meant
      by flipping the bird at the establishment was that at some point he said \"I'm
      not going to do this like other designers.  I'm going to make this an art, not
      an industry\".  And it worked for him because after those first years everyone
      wanted him to be the art director for whatever project it was they were working
      on.\r\n\r\nHe was one of a few designers who made design art, not just something
      that made a page look good."
    children:
    - author:
        name: rosem
      body: "<cite>He was one of a few designers who made design art, not just something
        that made a page look good.</cite>\r\n\r\nThats pretty much the only thing
        Carson did - make the page look good (which makes it art).  He would be a
        designer if it looked good <em>and</em> the type wasn't so distorted and \"grungy\"
        that you could actually read and make sense of it."
      created: '2007-04-21 02:23:47'
    created: '2007-04-19 20:33:19'
  created: '2007-04-19 15:59:47'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "The essential difference as I see it is that design is client-driven. In
    art, you are your own boss. Which is not to say that good design doesn't qualify
    as art. And some art is done on commission, hence client driven as well. So of
    course there is overlap.\r\n\r\nI do both design and fine art (and love both),
    so the difference in terms of my own life is very clear.\r\n\r\nNot gonna join
    the Carson clamor except to say I'm with Bert. \"Best\" is a subjective term.
    But if he weren't \"important\" there wouldn't be 2 threads dedicated to him on
    this forum in the last few months."
  created: '2007-04-19 16:00:57'
- author:
    name: kosal
    picture: 109775
  body: If you ask Time, the designer of the decade honor goes to...........YOU.
  created: '2007-04-19 18:30:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ":->\r\n\r\nBTW Patricia, \"important\" and \"designer\" aren't the same thing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-19 18:35:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"If you ask Time, the designer of the decade honor goes to\u2026\u2026\u2026..YOU.\"\r\n\r\nI
    don't get it koleslaw. Was there a Time article on design? That would be a big
    surprise.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-19 18:52:36'
- author:
    name: kosal
    picture: 109775
  body: "<a href=\"http://msnbcmedia1.msn.com/j/msnbc/Components/Photos/061217/061217_time_vlrg_7a.widec.jpg\">It
    was a reference to this.</a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-19 18:59:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The pinnacle of Western individualism idiocy.\r\nIt's all downhill from here.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-19 19:08:29'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>I would hardly call the \u201CSurfer dudes\u201D who were his audience,
    the establishment.</em>\r\n\r\nThey weren't, but they are becoming so. They are
    the edgy, crazy hipsters that decided that TNR beats Courier for gov't docs."
  created: '2007-04-19 19:32:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I\u2019m a long time lurker \r\n\r\n>I\u2019m pretty much the biggest David
    Carson fan on the face of the earth\r\n\r\nCoincidence? ;-) "
  created: '2007-04-19 20:19:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"hey are the edgy, crazy hipsters that decided that TNR beats Courier for
    gov\u2019t docs.\"\r\n\r\nYup, I will have to admit, that is pretty edgy stuff
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-19 20:29:14'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: So I guess what I'm saying is he broke down the barrier between art and design
    in sort of the same way Andy Warhol did.
  created: '2007-04-19 20:36:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Why was he the best? He turned things upside down. He threw up his middle
    finger at the establishment. He pissed off everyone.\r\n\r\nSometimes there are
    a good reasons to do something that angers and offends others, and it should be
    done *in spite of* angering and offending. \r\n\r\nBut angering and offending
    has no merit in itself. It is a lot easier to anger and offend in foolish ways
    that typically hurt the person himself or herself most of all, as well as others.\r\n\r\nThere
    is a big market for artistic expression of a typically adolecent self-centered
    'chip on the shoulder' attitude. But that it can make money doesn't make it good
    or wise. "
  created: '2007-04-19 20:58:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> angering and offending has no merit in itself.\r\n\r\nThat's your religion.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-19 21:31:07'
- author:
    name: pbaber
  body: "> He turned things upside down.\r\n\r\nWeingart did this, but he did it constructively,
    out of a desire to push things forward. For me Carson was throwing his finger
    up simply because he could. He was reactionary without a goal and his work was
    ultimately self-destructive. Where could things go from there? I think it is Kinross
    who talked about the nightmarish vision of a never ending cycle of post-modernisms. "
  created: '2007-04-19 22:16:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">your religion\r\n\r\nNot only in my religion. I don't know of any religion
    in which angering and offending has merit in itself. Or for that matter any secular
    wisdom tradition. \r\n\r\nCertainly not in Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Buddhism,
    Confucianism, Greek Stoicism. While there are some exceptional circumstances where
    anger is regarded as acceptable in some of these traditions, in all it I believe
    it is regarded as an extremely dangerous emotion, generally sowing personal pain
    and interpersonal conflict.\r\n\r\nIncidentally, my own view is that anger can
    be functional as a warning signal of danger. However it--like other negative emotions--is
    in great danger of being stuck in the 'on' position, leading to actions that are
    irrationally harmful to the self and others. Unnecessarily offending others is
    an example of such generally self-defeating actions. \r\n\r\nIn our society people
    can sometimes make a living out of insulting others, though. Don Imus comes to
    mind, among others. "
  created: '2007-04-19 22:18:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I don\u2019t know of any religion in which ...\r\n\r\nYou're looking in
    the wrong direction.\r\nWhich is the same reason you will never see notan.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-20 00:50:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">You\u2019re looking in the wrong direction.\r\n\r\nYes, I tend to think
    that if all the world's religions and wisdom traditions agree on something over
    thousands of years, then maybe there is something in it. Also contemporary research
    in psychology concurs. So current secular wisdom agrees as well. \r\n\r\nYou don't.
    Fine, so please refer me to those thinkers who say that anger and insult have
    merit in themselves, and are not dangerous and are not to be guarded against.
    I would like to read them. "
  created: '2007-04-20 01:25:25'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "In some viewpoints, secular or otherwise, anger has merit where there would
    otherwise be only apathy. Can't remember who would best to cite on that.\r\n\r\n*
    * *\r\n\r\nI think we are a long way from the breakdown of art|design. Since postmodernism
    is now \"so 5 minutes ago\", it might be a long time before it comes back in style.
    Of course, whats a long time these days? 15 minutes?"
  created: '2007-04-20 01:41:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">anger has merit where there would otherwise be only apathy\r\n\r\nWhy would
    there otherwise be apathy? Once you are aware of a danger or need, you can be
    concerned and take action without being constantly angry. \r\n\r\nAs I said above,
    I acknowledge that anger is functional as a warning signal; also as motivation
    that something needs doing. That is a merit, but not in itself. It is also functional
    in blocking compassion and giving you energy when it's a kill or be killed situation,
    such as in  battle. \r\n\r\nAnger in itself, without serving one of these functions
    is dangerous and destructive. And anger is in fact very often dysfunctional. Anger
    easily becomes a habit and leads to the distorted, self-defeating thinking that
    has been documented by cognitive psychologists: thinking in black and white, us-and-them,
    limiting the scope of searched options, over personalizing, 'catastrophizing',
    oscilating between grandiosity and self abasement, etc., etc. \r\n\r\nAnd insult
    creates lasting resentments and stokes the fires of conflict.  "
  created: '2007-04-20 02:00:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> maybe there is something in it.\r\n\r\nYeah, like why we're heading straight
    for the gutter.\r\n\r\nMy thinkers are your miscreants.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-20 02:00:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Who exactly do you think are my "miscreants"? '
  created: '2007-04-20 02:09:39'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Look, why don't you boys take this crap somewhere else? \r\n\r\nTestosterone
    and p*ssing in the bushes is just really so 1980s.  \r\n\r\n<em>Notan</em> deals
    with darkness and light, neither of which have anything (or everything, depending
    on your perspective) to do with \"religion.\"\r\n\r\nI, for one, am invoking [[The
    Silence Brigade]] on both of you: a pox on both your houses!\r\n\r\nMove freaking
    on, eh?"
  created: '2007-04-20 02:32:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Linda, how does insulting both of us help anything? \r\n\r\nI am actually
    quite interested in the way anger is treated in the media and society, including
    design. I think it is quite an important issue. If there are theorists out there
    analyzing or defending this stuff--and there is a lot of it, particularly on radio--I
    would like to know who they are and look at their writings. "
  created: '2007-04-20 02:55:50'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I wonder if the best designer of the 90's wasn't a type designer because
    type played an absolutely outsize role in 90's design compared to design in any
    other period. Of course I am assuming you mean graphic design here. Maybe the
    person who designed the sealable spout on the milk should win... \r\n\r\n<cite>Where
    could things go from there? I think it is Kinross who talked about the nightmarish
    vision of a never ending cycle of post-modernisms.</cite>\r\n\r\nI can't see things
    in that kind of cyclical way anymore particularly now that fashion of all kinds
    is less & less unitary and more and more simply co-exists at once. I am also feeling
    a bit itchy while reading the definitions of design in this thread. It's not that
    they are wrong from my point of view - maybe just too rigid. \r\n\r\nI think Carson's
    main virtue was that he had an eye for composition. He decided to treat the page
    like a canvas and not let conventions, including typographic ones, get in the
    way of his compositions. I don't think composition is the be-all in design - but
    it is important. So in that sense I think he was 'designing'. "
  created: '2007-04-20 03:12:55'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I have to agree with Chris; nothing Carson did was anti-establishment. His
    design was not really breaking rules because, not being a trained designer, he
    really neither new nor cared about traditional rules of typography. When he was
    designing Raygun he was just a cog in the wheel of phony counterculture dreamed
    up by record company execs who realized that they could replace hair metal with
    newer bands playing the same power ballads in a lower octave a slower tempos.
    And as much as people like to say Carson was hugely influential, I\u2019m not
    so sure that\u2019s true, aside from distressed type little of what Carson is
    known for is used much anymore because it simply looks dated now.\r\n\r\nAnd as
    for anger and religion...I said this thread was going to get nuts."
  created: '2007-04-20 03:20:07'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: I see Carson's influence all over the place.  I'll agree that the most influential
    thing was the distressed type, but his eye for composition and ability to use
    the page to it's fullest extent is being followed by a ton of younger designers.  I
    see a lot of collage stuff that immediately makes me think Carson.  And I think
    a lot of younger graphic designers got into the industry for the same reason I
    did... I was inspired by people like Carson and Warhol and even Weingart.  So
    maybe he wasn't the best, but he sure did make graphic design known outside of
    the design world and he sure was influential.
  created: '2007-04-20 03:40:33'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: William... with all due respect, this is a thread about something different
    than what you two are discussing.  Perhaps starting a specific thread would benefit
    your position.
  created: '2007-04-20 04:13:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Christopher, with all due respect, it is not different, but exactly on point.
    You have proposed that Carson is great because \r\n\r\n\"He threw up his middle
    finger at the establishment. He pissed off everyone. He was the epitome of 90\u2019s
    culture. And like it or not, his influence still lives on.\" \r\n\r\nYour later
    explanation that he didn't let the demands of design interfere with his art may
    be accurate, but I think your first comment better captures why so many students
    admire him. It is not just his ability as an artist, but his attitude of contempt
    which you and others are excited by. And I actually have come around to see that
    you are indeed right: he is characteristic of a period, just recently ended.  \r\n\r\nThe
    admiration of 'attitude' is what I pointed out indeed has been popular, though
    I think it is misguided. Rappers have ridden anger and contempt for women to riches,
    and Don Imus had a successful show for years regularly insulting everybody as
    'humor'. The 'hate radio' of Rush Limbaugh has also been hugely successful. \r\n\r\nDavid
    Carson is not a cultural critic but someone riding a wave of popularity of a contemptuous
    attitude as 'hip' and 'cool'.  \r\n\r\nI am the one being a counter-cultural--art
    school culture--critic, and here you are being the culture police and ruling me
    out of order. But I am now in fact seconding what you said, that Carson is important.
    --I just think the popularity was for the wrong reasons.\r\n\r\nSpecifically,
    it is not 'advanced' and a breakthrough to push forward your own art to the detriment
    of a design purpose. It is self-indulgent and contemptuous of the client and reader.
    --and by the way Hrant and I I think agree about this. And as you can see, we
    don't agree about a lot! \r\n\r\nAs a contrary example, I would cite the recent
    wonderful work of <a href=\"http://www.bantjes.com/\">Marian Bantjes</a>. Her
    recent work would fall in the category of 'graphic art', as you have put Carson's.
    However, she is respectful of the client and the audience. Her art has a freedom,
    adventurousness and joy that reminds me of the Beatles in their prime. And not
    coincidentally, she knows the difference between art and design--as Patty above
    explained. \r\n\r\nAt a talk at the TDC in New York, she told the story of how
    she decided she was fed up with design, and quit and devoted herself to the graphic
    art that her conservative clients didn't want. After a very lean year she started
    her first sales of her graphic art. Now, widely admired in only a few years, only
    accepts projects where she has \"carte blanche\". \"And that's not really design,\"
    she said. She gets it.   \r\n\r\nMaybe the worm has turned and the recently fashionable
    contempt has turned back to a spirit of freedom, adventure and joy. By me, that
    would be great.     "
  created: '2007-04-20 05:32:20'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Maybe the worm has turned and the recently fashionable contempt has
    turned back to a spirit of freedom, adventure and joy. By me, that would be great.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think we are getting there but will not know for sure until late November of 2009.
    So much of the bitterness that has spread into our culture comes from the political
    fallout of the 1990s Clinton vs. the Republican Revolution mess. When our leaders
    decided it was fine to spew bile and vitriol at one another the mordant slime
    trickled down into every aspect of American culture. I am hopeful that things
    are starting to swing the other way; the implosion of McCain on the right and
    the rise of Obama on the left, coupled with growing friendly trends in music and
    design (I can\u2019t figure out where \u201Cfine art\u201D is going so I won\u2019t
    touch that one) lead me to believe that Americans are sick of the bitterness and
    are ready to start getting along again. \r\n\r\nBut it sure would be easy for
    it all to get even worse if things go the wrong way and the us VS them mindset
    continues."
  created: '2007-04-20 06:47:10'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Why does everyone credit Carson for using distressed type? Distressing type
    the way he did was a literal quote of the punk designers of the seventies. They
    used non-conformist techniques (eg photocopying) to bring over a message. Carson
    used conformist techniques (PhotoShop) to obscure messages. So maybe he is an
    artist, but not a very original one\u2026"
  created: '2007-04-20 10:52:30'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Who was the best designer of the 90s?\"\r\n\r\nI hate these questions.
    I really really do. But...by \"who\" do you mean a person? By Best do mean visually,
    spirtually, technically, creatively? Designer, means what? and the 90's were when?
    \r\n\r\nIf I think freely, I know the answer to be Apple Computer, for my definitions
    of \"best\", \"\"design\", and \"90's\". At least, to me someone like Carson was
    fun to watch, but there is little of him left behind compared to others, besides,
    as you read here, attitude. And to me attitude never means much for very long,
    primarily because once one's sold out to the high bidders, attitude tends to be
    not so helpful, eh!?"
  created: '2007-04-20 11:48:53'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Why does everyone credit Carson for using distressed type?</cite>\r\n\r\nCarson
    gets credit because he actually distressed type intentionally before putting it
    a magazine. The punk designers of the 1970s did it accidentally, by getting stoned
    and making their pasteups with dull razors at 4am and running off copies using
    the cheapest printing processes available."
  created: '2007-04-20 13:03:49'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "that's kind of a silly statement, and i think even d.c. would scratch his
    head and say, \"huh?\"\r\n\r\ncarson gets credit because (for good or ill) he
    forced us to look at things (namely, ubiquitous type) differently, in much the
    same way warhol forced us to look at soup cans differently or richard serra forced
    us to look at plates of steel differently."
  created: '2007-04-20 13:29:33'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">The punk designers of the 1970s did it accidentally, by getting stoned and
    making their pasteups with dull razors at 4am and running off copies using the
    cheapest printing processes available.\r\n\r\nNo we didn\u2019t.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-04-20 14:37:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> ... the us VS them mindset continues.\r\n\r\nThe real problem is that that
    \"us\" is being increasingly considered in its acronymic form... Things won't
    get better until this confrontationalism is tamed on a global scale, not just
    internally to the US. In fact as long as it isn't, it's actually better for the
    world (including us here, in the long term) that the US is disunified! :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-20 14:49:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...designers of the 1970s did it accidentally, by getting stoned and ...\"\r\n\r\nJpad,\r\nI
    don't know where you get those romantic notions. There are still plenty of old
    enough designers around who worked before, during, and after that era that are
    willing to keep you honest with your statements. Actually, several of the CalArts
    guys were doing distressed and grunge type long before Carson. It was going on
    in Europe too. Look at Brody.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-20 15:27:21'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "jpad - Punk was the last time that young people got to have their own thing
    that was not understood and co-opted by \"The Man\". Now \"The Man\" will co-opt
    your cultural movement before you can raise your middle finger.\r\n\r\nIt was
    pure because there was no chance to make money. By 1979 the pureness was over
    - people were trying to \"make it\" - and I was over it - because I am \"punk\".\r\n\r\nIt's
    obvious that your idea about what it was comes straight from the Quincy episode
    where the punk rockers were criminals and Quincy finally turned them around. Or
    the Chips episode where the punks were car thieves that got caught and Erik Estrada
    repaired the relationship between the CHP and the \"punks\" by showing up at a
    punk rock show and singing Celebration.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-04-20 16:03:35'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>No we didn\u2019t.</cite>\r\n\r\nexactly.\r\n\r\nBut back to the topic,
    a lot of people have forgetten one of the big influences of the 90's 'Future Farmers'
    in SF. http://www.futurefarmers.com/ \r\n\r\nAn absolute ton of the light motifs
    used in that period, and color choices, and even a mainstreaming of blackletter
    came from those folks. And in many ways their stuff is a direct bridge from wildness
    of Carson to the intricacy Marian Bantjes. \r\n"
  created: '2007-04-20 16:46:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Future Farmers? Really? Other than FFA, this is the first I have heard of
    them.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-20 17:04:23'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: eric estrada healed a lot of wounds with that rendition.
  created: '2007-04-20 17:56:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Neville Brody and  Eric Estrada groovin', now there is an image :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-20 18:01:43'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Sagmeister? Vince Frost?\r\nIllustrators: David Foldvari, Dave McKean "
  created: '2007-04-20 18:13:07'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Yeah...again too much Carson talk. Our focus of him certainly shows his influence,
    but what about these folks?\r\n\r\nArt Chantry\r\nStefan Sagmeister\r\nMichael
    Bierut\r\nPaula Scher\r\n\r\nHow can we ignore the explosion of hand-done type,
    of which I think Sagmeister and Scher were really influential? Also, some of the
    punk style photocopying techniques James mentions were Chantry's bread and butter
    and have spawned numerous imitations.\r\n\r\nI always like hearing opinions from
    people like Chris and Patty on these issues because they're what I call the \"real
    designers.\" Folks who know the \"old school\" ways of doing it (rapidiograph
    and frisket) but know modern technology. \r\n\r\nPlus peeps my age and younger
    need a reality check about design sometimes...there's a tendency to idolize the
    era too much."
  created: '2007-04-20 19:29:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Everybody idolizes some era. Haven't you noticed that\r\ndesigners of a certain
    age <cite>actually like</cite> the 70s ITC stuff?  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-20 19:41:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Actually, Michael Beirut may have been the best of the lot. He is a pretty
    openminded guy as well.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-20 19:46:53'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Rick Poynor had a huge imapct not so much through his design but his selection
    of design to focus on too. \r\n\r\n<cite>the first I have heard of them</cite>\r\n\r\nThey
    were west coat you are east coast. ;-) Plus their stuff might have been too painfuly
    'hip' for you given your feelings about Carson. Their stuff solved visual problems
    for sure but with a long detour through their own flavor of whimsy. Maybe you
    have heard of Amy Franceschini. She was the most famous of that group. Here is
    an interview from 1999\r\n\r\nhttp://www.shift.jp.org/035/amyfranceschini/index.shtml\r\n\r\nWhile
    I am at it what about ( in no order in particular) Tomato, Bruce Mau, Frogdesign,
    Metadesign, The Designers Republic, Edward Fella, Why Not, Rick Valicenti...\r\n\r\nHonestly
    though. I have almost no use for the idea of 'best'."
  created: '2007-04-20 19:47:48'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: "\"carson gets credit because (for good or ill) he forced us to look at things
    (namely, ubiquitous type) differently, in much the same way warhol forced us to
    look at soup cans differently or richard serra forced us to look at plates of
    steel differently.\"\r\n\r\nYES!"
  created: '2007-04-20 19:53:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think the most notable thing Carson has done is sell out - taking that\r\nonce
    proud middle finger and shoving it decisively up his own finial.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-20 19:57:41'
- author:
    name: joeking_tp
  body: "I think David Carson was the most influential of the 90s because he had a
    few books out of his work.\r\nPersonally some of his work is interesting but he
    has produced some of the worst work I've ever seen.\r\n'Don't mistake legibility
    for communication'.\r\nDon't mistake apples for pears.\r\nOr should that be don't
    mistake David Carson for a designer?\r\n\r\nOt5her naMes 2 tink about)\r\nNeville
    Brody\r\nE. Spiekermann\r\nRudy VanderLans\r\nZuzana Licko\r\nBarry Deck\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-20 20:28:31'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I think the concept of most influential designer of the 1990s is just not
    something anyone can quantify at this time. For starters, there are people of
    varying ages, influenced by nineties design, who are still in school, many more
    in mid-to-junior jobs where they still aren\u2019t making big creative decisions.
    It will be a long time before enough of the nineties has come and gone in design
    to quantify how it all played out.\r\n\r\nAnd it really is not possible for most
    of us to look at the subject on grounds that could even remotely be considered
    objective. As has already been noted regional design awareness has a profound
    impact on what we know about design; until this stuff has finally been collected
    and compared by multiple sources it will be hard to really know enough about Ninties
    design on a large scale to make credible pronouncements about it; at least unless
    your last name is Heller, Lupton, or Poynor.\r\n\r\nLastly, we must also consider
    that there may be incredibly influential designers that none of us are aware of.
    For all we know there was a design in Laos whose work was knocked off in China
    and has since influenced myriad designers that have yet to be seen by our eyes.
    Hell, right now there might be a discussion just like this one going on in Mandarin
    with no mention of David Carson, Paula Scher, or Stefan Sagmeister. \r\n\r\nBut
    it sure is fun to discuss :)"
  created: '2007-04-20 20:30:49'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Erik Spiekermann...How could I forget? One of my biggest influences when I
    was in school.
  created: '2007-04-20 22:03:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That just shows how silly it is to try and identify the one guy/women who
    exemplifies a decade of design! Spiekermann and Carson are eons apart in what
    they did but contemporaries in time!\r\nGod, I hate these \"who was the best\"
    things. It makes it sound like a decade is all about one individual--kinda who
    was queen of the senior prom like.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-21 00:17:27'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "\xABI see a lot of collage stuff that immediately makes me think Carson.\xBB\r\n\r\nBoy,
    I can feel your pain... holy Christ... collage!?\r\n\r\nWho made Radiohead's Ok
    Computer album's art back in the 90's? Being 18 years old on 2000 I lived the
    90's both as a child and as a teenager. I was lucky enough to play with an At8088
    and an atari 2600 at 8 years old and then to play nintendo 64 and use internet
    to download music at 18.\r\n\r\nWell, after a time of seeing Ok Computer art's
    I certainly felt it as a symbol of the 90's design: all fussy with colorful plastic
    like textures, distressed type, harsh contrast, paste ups and collages.\r\n\r\nThe
    concepts were brilliant but I certainly don't miss most of this stridency and
    fussiness.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2007-04-21 08:38:31'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "OK Computer... Now there's a fine example of how I see typical 90s design!
    A \"collage\" of iconic infographics mixed with a kind of 8-bit Nintendo computer
    like images & blurry photographs overdrawn with handwritten scribblings & doodles.
    Sort of like a polaroid from a sketched Atari or something. I think the 90s were
    most defined by \"outsider art\", a direct result of the DTP revolution who made
    it possible for every non-designer to experiment in Photoshop & be \"creative\".\r\nCompletely
    -well, not completely- off subject: I'm probably the only one likes \"The Bends\"
    better than \"OK Computer\"."
  created: '2007-04-21 13:07:09'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture-1_4398.jpg]\r\n\r\nAfter (and
    for) David Carson.\r\n\r\n(FWIW, the hyphenation game was already being played
    by Phil Baines in the 80s. Cut-up technique for repositioning text was used by
    Burroughs and Gysin in the 60s, and the leading dadaists (Hausmann, Schwitters
    et al) could probably lay claim to purposely distressed display type somewhere
    just after WW1)\r\n\r\nJoe, I read your original question the day you posted it
    and thought \"I'm just <em>not</em> going to say anything...\"\r\n\r\nI see that
    two days later and after (as James had correctly predicted), the thread going
    nuts, your position appears to have changed; I agree more with your re-assessment
    than your original statements. \r\n\r\nIMHO the 'best designer' thing is a false
    accolade, but if you were meaning to list those designers <em>most influential
    within the decade, </em> then as both foundry and publication, theory and practice,
    the good people at Emigre probably made more difference and moved the debate further
    than anyone else."
  created: '2007-04-22 03:16:14'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Coming in late to this but I'd have to say that the big typographic name
    of the mid 1990s was definitely David Carson. I was never a fan but I thought
    the awful purposefully bad kerning of RayGun on the first And the End of Print
    issue was absolutely brilliant and absolutely beyond my capabilities.\r\n\r\nI
    remember seeing his design for the Pepsi can in the supermarket. I think it was
    Pepsi, maybe Coke, it was really really bad. Word was he got a million for it
    up front, and when Pepsi or Coke complained about the fact that he didn't use
    the logo or put in all the required legal information he told them, \"next time
    hire a typographer.\" I like that story. Tells it all.\r\n\r\nGerald\r\n\r\nThe
    Bieler Press\r\nhttp://BielerPress.blogspot.com"
  created: '2007-04-25 08:43:43'
date: '2007-04-18 19:38:22'
title: Who is the best designer of the 90s?

---
