---
author:
  name: AndrewSipe
  picture: 109430
body: "Well, I'm in a crappy mood this morning, I came in and was told that I needed
  to make some visual changes to a website I designed the end of last year. It's been
  well over 6 months since I've looked at this site. \r\n\r\nSo, I went to the folder
  where I have everything and I mean everything. If this were a physical place, I
  could imagine boxes piled high and in every box there's tiny pieces (and lots of
  duplicates with minor imperfections.) \r\n\r\nIt's clear that when it comes to saving
  files I get into a very simplistic mode (I'm just surprised I save often enough
  to not have to worry about NOT having a file.), but this mess clearly proves I need
  to go the extra step. \r\n\r\nI was wondering how you guys tackle the organizational
  problems of design in our computer world. Do you sort everything into specific folders,
  give them version names, dates, letters and numbers? OR do you delete all the development
  at the end and save only the major components. \r\n\r\nI could use any helpful insight."
comments:
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I rely on the \"view by date\" view in the Finder when I'm trying to reconstruct
    what I did on past projects. (For this reason, I detest programs that change the
    modification date of files when you only open them.) \r\n\r\nI also make a folder
    while I'm working on a project labeled \"older files\" or similar. I move files
    into that folder as they are superseded by newer versions. If I need to back track,
    I know where they are."
  created: '2007-04-19 15:16:26'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Thanks for the feedback Mark\r\n\r\nI'm in the same vein, looking at the
    date of creation... which isn't always the best method because I might actually
    go back and use a previous version as the final. \r\n\r\nThe \"older files\" is
    also a good idea that I've done, but labeled mine \"Development\" In any regards,
    it's still not the best solution.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-19 15:19:24'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Maybe not the best way. It's just what I do. :-) I'll be curious to see what
    other suggestions people have.
  created: '2007-04-19 15:21:50'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "At the end, I only save the final files, but up until then I usually save
    at least one version back, just in case. I have a large hard drive on my iMac
    but also back up files (the main files) on an external hard drive, and when the
    job is complete I burn a CD or DVD for additional backup. I've had hard drives
    (both internal and external) crash on me so I'm very careful to have all the main
    job files in more than one place. By main job files I mean the Quark or InDesign
    files, not necessarily all the jpegs or tiffs. I usually date the folders but
    not each file, altho I'll tack on a version number at the end to keep track. (I
    should add that I design books so each job usually has multiple files, one for
    each chapter).\r\n\r\nMy office/apartment is a mess but my computer is very tidy.
    Next to nothing on my \"desktop\" and files all where they should be and clearly
    organized. I usually have separate folders for text, images, layouts, pdfs.\r\n\r\nIt
    may take a bit of extra time to be vigilant while you're working but it's worth
    it. One friend suggested you schedule your backups, say tuesday mornings or something
    so that you're never more than a week behind."
  created: '2007-04-19 15:24:56'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Mark, I do the same, most of my jobs have an \"old\" folder too with previous
    versions. If I am more organized I date that folder. Usually hang onto all that
    stuff, including all the various pdfs, until the job is printed.\r\n\r\nThe finder
    (if you use a mac) shows you not just the date of creation but also the date last
    modified and the date last looked at. Those are useful too."
  created: '2007-04-19 15:28:38'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I just save assets. I can reconstruct anything if it really needs to be done.
    But this makes sense in my scenario, things rarely get reconstructed and final
    versions are saved on the company server if they are ever needed.\r\n\r\nIf there's
    something I'm particularly fond of, I will also save a PDF for myself.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-04-19 15:38:31'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I have a pretty serious method of organizing all my stuff. Theres a file in
    my home directory where all my art/design work goes. There are categories in there,
    work, school, etc., and subcategories for clients, semesters, etc. Each project
    then gets its own folder, all the layout files go in there. Subfolders exist for
    anything getting linked into the project or used as source files for creating
    something that does. The actual document layouts get saved as project.day.month.year.version
    and  every so often I dump all the old versions into a subfolder that usually
    gets deleted after the project is done.
  created: '2007-04-19 15:42:05'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Auch, this is an area I could do with some self-discipline (alongside with
    the neatness of my desk, but that's another story).\r\n\r\nWith more complicated
    projects (or long lasting) I have a folder named something like \"to the client\",
    which contains all the pdfs sent. It's then easy to spot the final accepted version,
    unless they decided on some previous version, of course. There's a \"versions\"
    or \"old files\" folder, too. Also, I usually have a copy of the folder I sent
    to the printshop.\r\nBy the time a project is finished with, another one is often
    on the go, and I don't seem to have time to clear out the excess files from the
    finished project, and end up with a similar situation you just described.\r\n\r\nMark,
    I share your dislike of programs that change the modification date of files when
    you only open them."
  created: '2007-04-19 15:47:57'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Interesting. It appears we're all over the map when it comes to organizing
    our files. \r\n\r\nI'd like to hear from some of the more Web-centric designers.
    \r\nSeeing as the project I have to change is a webpage. It's a mess really. There
    aren't just multiple versions of the original design, but also subsequently multiple
    versions of how I sliced the images up and set the image maps (we're old school
    here, I design, do all the slicing in Image Ready and then send to a developer
    to fix the code and upload.)\r\n\r\nThis is the kind of stuff they either drill
    into you at school/work or you have to hobble through life trying to figure it
    out piecemeal, changing and adapting as your design language/skills change.\r\n\r\nI
    wish it was simple, and the files all have a file name that I can look at and
    instantly know if one was older or the last version used.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-19 16:26:18'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I'm not really a web designer but can't you get the latest file from the
    ftp site?\r\n\r\nAnd not to sound schoolmarmy, but now that you've run into this
    problem it should at least help you going forward to know what you'll need and
    organize/name the files appropriately. A lot of my filing and naming systems come
    from having lost files due to hard drive crashes and accidental deletions. I realize
    this doesn't help you with the problem at hand tho."
  created: '2007-04-19 16:37:52'
- author:
    name: kostal
    picture: 111214
  body: 'I usually attempt to tag version names to the end of files (v01 - v02, etc.)
    but easily give up and go back to unconventional almost pointless naming devices
    such as "new, newer and most new." '
  created: '2007-04-19 16:44:41'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "That's just the thing, I'm not primarily a web designer either. I've done
    a few sites, but most of the stuff I do is print (which require little organizational
    up-keep.) \r\n\r\nAnd I definitely agree with you Patty, I should get a system
    figured out and apply it to all future designs regardless of how small or large
    they are. I'm hoping to get some ideas on how to create and implement such a system
    from all my helpful friends here at Typophile.\r\n\r\nIt's the boring side of
    design that people don't really feel compelled to discuss."
  created: '2007-04-19 16:46:31'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I usually also have a folder with a lot of redundant and obsolete versions
    of files. After I know where I'm going, I usually make a folder inside the folder
    and name it something like 'old', and put everything in there, exept the latest
    version of the file(s) that I am actually using. Especially handy when visiting
    the folder later, like you are doing now. Sometimes I add something like 'finish'
    or 'printversion' to the name of the file that's being used. This is how I do
    it for freelance work and my own work.\r\nAt the company I was working for a year
    ago, we really had a system for storing the data, because everything was backed
    up, and put into the archive. Those filenames had date, order number (especially),
    year, name of client, etc. That way we could search the number or name in the
    archive-computer, and know on which CD/HDD/Server the files were stored for later
    use/reprint.\r\n\r\nWith work like InDesign, I sometimes make folders inside a
    'master' folder, with names like 'images', 'resources' (original text-files etc.)
    and have the InDesign-file itself in the master folder. Basically what InDesign
    does when it makes a Package. This is also the way we needed to do it at the company
    I mentioned before."
  created: '2007-04-19 17:17:07'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Anyone have any file naming structure suggestions. I know there's a character
    limit and for some applications it would be better to be case sensitive. \r\n\r\nDo
    you use ALL CAPS, all lowercase, or a mix. What about numbers and symbols? How
    do you separate details hyphens, periods, underscore? "
  created: '2007-04-19 19:05:04'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "The simplest is to tack on a suffix like .1, .2, etc. Sometimes it becomes
    .2a and such. I don't add dates because it makes the file names too long. But
    I'll date the folders - when I have my s**t together. That's helpful also for
    reference with the client - you can be sure you're talking about the same version.\r\n\r\nBecause
    I do books, I usually set it up as follows:\r\nFolder: book title + date (or sometimes
    Layouts1, Layouts2)\r\nFiles:\r\na.frontmatter_pp1-15\r\nb.chapter1_pp16-35\r\netc.\r\n\r\nThen
    .1, .2 as the revisions happen. Often I'll put a cap F at the end of the final
    version (the one that went to the printer). But then, of course, there are more
    changes so it becomes F1, F2 etc.\r\n\r\nThe trick too is to remember to do a
    \"save as\" before you start reworking the file so that you have preserved your
    earlier version intact. And back it up elsewhere in case you mess up."
  created: '2007-04-19 19:34:35'
- author:
    name: tina
    picture: 109693
  body: "I organize my stuff into a main folder with the project's name and the main
    file, and subfolders called texts, images, illustrations, recherche, etc.\r\n\r\nWhile
    working on the project I generally use the option \"open recent files\" to get
    to the latest version of my document and sometimes I take an extra look onto the
    date (especially when working with the book palette). \r\n\r\nThen, first thing
    I do, at least at a new day, is saving the file under a new number (filename_1,
    filename_2, etc.). Additionally I have a second version  of the file (filename_1bak,
    filename_2bak). This has really saved me sometimes, it doesn't happen very often,
    but if, I was always very grateful about this second chance. With these two versions
    I can save the file now and then by \"save as\" (filename_1 \"save as\" filename_1bak
    and vice versa the next time). At the end of the day I've got two identical versions
    \ (file_2 and file_2bak) so it wouldn't be that bad if I'd mess up one of them
    the next day ;-) The good thing about doing a \"save as\" in InDesign is that
    this minimizes the file size as well. Now and then I drop the older files into
    a folder called \"older versions\". And in the evening I (try not to forget to)
    transfer the latest versions to an external hard drive.\r\n\r\nA PDF I like for
    quick overviews while working.\r\n\r\n((With these routines I until now hesitate
    to use the book palette in InDesign. Here you should only open your document from
    within the palette and I find this quite confusing, mainly I think because I'm
    not used to it (I might open an (older) document via \"open recent\" in between
    because I'm so used to this and end up with 3 versions, trying to re-follow what
    I'd changed in two different documents in the end, which is embarrassing). Although
    the book palette is useful in the end of a project to get the page numbers right
    -- and I'm still curious if there is a way to work happily with the book palette
    all the time?)) \r\n\r\nWhen the project is done, I save the last version, with
    all the complete packaged stuff I'd sent to the printer, meanwhile at two cds/dvds
    because sometimes I'd found one of them had been damaged with time and I wasn't
    able to open it again. "
  created: '2007-04-20 01:46:09'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "I, too, am not the most organized person with my files.\r\n\r\nMy method
    has evolved like this: I open a folder for whatever it is (InfoBooklet 07-08).
    Inside, I start the layout and save each version, marking the version with _1
    _2 _3 as applicable. Then, the version chosen to be the working layout gets the
    number removed, and the numbered versions go into a folder of their own within
    the main folder. As I add stuff to the document I'll create, all within the main
    folder, folders for logos, pictures, translation, and so on. I also create an
    email folder for the project because most updates come to me by email. So even
    if I've managed to delete or screw up something along the way, I'll have the original
    update in the email. \r\n\r\nFor finalized files, I put _final. I make a PDF of
    it, and package the files. Sometimes I need to have a different final version
    for web and for print, and I name them accordingly.\r\n\r\nBut I also don't work
    for multiple clients. And my publications are only updated once a year, so it's
    pretty straightforward.\r\n\r\nOf course, I also heard of someone who everyday
    created a folder with that date and put whatever they did that day into the folder.
    I know I would never maintain that, and figure it wouldn't be a practical way
    to track specific project components."
  created: '2007-04-20 02:41:20'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I am not always willing to go the extra mile for organization so the model
    I use is to start the project with a name 'projectx' or what ever & then put a
    0001 & then the file extension. When a project takes a really new jig I will often
    just skip to 0100 & keep going from there. And then 0200 for each new step after
    meeting with a client. Itterations within a thread sometimes take letters too
    so '0123g' is a name I can build up to. So far I have never needed to get past
    2000. \r\n\r\nThe reason I like this method is that it is good for 'threaded'
    projects where you diverge into a few ideas & cut off some options & then spin
    some new ones out from a base design. Really linear projects would probably not
    be hurt by it either though. I suppose if you really wanted to keep a thread's
    integrity you could always use a001, b001 & so on. But I have not found that I
    benefited from keeping things that reified.\r\n\r\nwhen color is an issue -usually
    in the second half of the project or near then end when final art is being made
    I will indicate that with a .rgb or a .bwrgb or .bwcmyk or .cmyk - so far I have
    not needed to archive lab color stuff.  Usually the file has a new more fully
    desriptive name at the end as well with a date so it might be \r\n\r\n'clientname.flyer.7.12.06.rgb.pdf'\r\n\r\nI
    have enjoyed reading what you guys do to keep on top of things. Thanks!"
  created: '2007-04-20 03:05:16'
- author:
    name: mauimatt
    picture: 112460
  body: "I work at an ad agency and I am pulling my hair out trying to work through
    my colleagues folder structure and naming conventions. I believe each project
    should follow the same protocol so anyone (freelancer, colleague, you 6 months
    later) can jump in and be familiar with the logic. This thread has been really
    insightful to me. \r\n\r\nI've found the best approach for me, at the expense
    of disk space, is to version out in rounds. This is an example of a website:\r\n\r\ntop
    level  /  [copy][concepts][production]\r\nconcepts   /  [PSDs][JPGs][FLAs][PDFs][Assets]\r\nPSDs
    \      /  [round_01][round_02][round_03][round_XX]\r\nround_01   /  01_homepage.psd,
    02_aboutus.psd, 03_clients.psd\r\nJPGs       /  01_homepage.jpg, 02_aboutus.jpg,
    03_clients.jpg\r\nPDFs       /  filename_date.pdf\r\n\r\nIts probably over the
    top, but each time I get a new direction, or if there is a shift in design I duplicate
    the round. The old files are left intact*. I never change the file name because
    what does \"new\",\"newer\",\"this_is_really_the_final finalFINALFINAL\" really
    mean? Believe me, I did this for a long time, and my new approach has saved me
    hours of unnecessary work. The file name always stays the same from round_01 to
    round_XX. \r\n\r\nThis helps out tremendously when you are saving out for client/internal
    presentations. You don't have to create rounds in your JPGs folder. Its the same
    file name in every round. Then, if you have to create a PDF for the presentation,
    the 01_,02_,03_ prefix allows you easily order your presentation. Its already
    in the order you determined in your PSDs.\r\n\r\n* this has saved me so many times.
    you can easily re-trace your steps and show the iterations to clients who can't
    easily see the evolution of your designs. Or if they want to go back to \"the
    design you had a couple of weeks ago.\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-20 16:48:16'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Some really helpful suggestions from the mass. I really appreciate it all.
    \r\n\r\nThru this whole ordeal, I did come to one truth. That is, it's not so
    much how one organizes their files, it's the simple fact that it's so difficult
    to delete/remove a file. \r\n\r\nI think there's an invisible umbilical cord attached
    to each of the files we create and to severe that connection isn't necessarily
    the easiest... you think I put so much work and effort into this how can I just
    toss it, or what if I have another project that this idea would be perfect for...
    that pack rat mentality seems to be very prevalent in the designer's life"
  created: '2007-04-20 17:17:00'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "for web projects, I typically have:\r\n\r\n - Project Management\r\n - -
    proposals\r\n - - time sheets\r\n - - conversation/meeeting notes\r\n - production\r\n
    - - content from client\r\n - - assets from client\r\n - - production files (fireworks,
    photoshop, etc.)\r\n - - - version x\r\n - - - final\r\n - - HTML\r\n - - - version
    X\r\n - - - - assets\r\n - - - - css\r\n - - - - js\r\n - - - final\r\n "
  created: '2007-04-20 17:38:38'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "\"<em>...trying to work through my colleagues folder structure and naming
    conventions.</em>\"\r\n\r\nThe agency you are working for should make rules or
    at least guidelines which everyone have to use. I think any serious agency should
    do that, to be honest... :)\r\n\r\nThe agency I worked for had quite strict naming
    rules, and it worked like a charm. Also since the agency used a elaborate Certified
    PDF workflow, the RIP-servers also made files with a fixed naming system for easy
    recognition.\r\nThe system was mostly based on order number and next to that version
    number or date. That way we could search for files on a computer via order number
    or name, if something had to be changed or reprinted, and then it would show on
    which CD/DVD/Server the files were stored and they could be accessed. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: mauimatt
      picture: 112460
    body: "<cite>The agency you are working for should make rules or at least guidelines
      which everyone have to use. I think any serious agency should do that, to be
      honest\u2026 :)</cite>\r\n\r\nI couldn't agree more, and I was very surprised/disapointed
      to learn how disorganized this place is in regards to file/folder naming conventions.
      The good news is that the agency recognizes the problem, and is actively working
      towards a solution."
    created: '2007-04-23 16:06:14'
  created: '2007-04-21 02:18:06'
- author:
    name: ragnarfreyr
    picture: 109612
  body: "I simply make a folder with the clients name, marking it green (using Mac
    Os X) as to indicate that I am currently working for that particual client. Within
    the client's folder I make a folder with the project's short name. Say I am working
    in Illustrator. I begin by naming the file I am working on \"xxx_1.1.ai\". Whenever
    I make any big changes I save that file again as \"xxx_1.2.ai\" and so on.\r\n\r\nWithing
    the project folder I have a folder for all working material like unedited images,
    documents and other stuff. I usually call that folder \"Material\". For images
    I import or place in the final project I have a folder called \"Images\".\r\n\r\nSo
    lets say my client's name is Cacadoo and the project's name is Poster:\r\n\r\n<strong>Cacadoo</strong>\r\n-
    <strong>Poster</strong>\r\n  -- <strong>Images</strong>\r\n    -- <em>Image1.eps</em>\r\n
    \   -- <em>Image2.eps</em>\r\n  -- <strong>Material</strong>\r\n    -- <em>Textforposter.txt</em>\r\n
    \   -- <em>Image1.jpg</em>\r\n    -- <em>Image2.jpg</em>\r\n  <em>Poster_1.1.ai</em>\r\n
    \ <em>Poster_1.2.ai</em>\r\n  <em>Poster_1.4.ai</em>\r\n  <em>Poster_1.5.ai</em>\r\n\r\nThen
    when I am ready to send the file to print or the web developer I make a folder
    called \"Final\" and save my final document there as a PDF or .PSD.\r\n\r\nOf
    course there a scenarios that are a bit more complicated but this is my basic
    principle of project organization.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n--\r\nRagnar Freyr\r\nwww.ragnarfreyr.com"
  created: '2007-04-21 05:28:47'
date: '2007-04-19 15:08:06'
node_type: forum
title: Get'n Organized!

---
