---
author:
  name: thetophus
  picture: 112453
body: "I have always been artistic.  When I was a kid I use to pain watercolors of
  dinosaurs and fighter jets.  When I was in middle school it was comic book character
  and rock and metal band logos.  In high school I took a class called Drawing and
  Commercial art, and it was around that time that I really seriously became involved
  in design, especially concert posters and album covers and the like.  I recently
  started going to school for design after a few false starts.  One thing I have noticed
  is that I clash with some of my instructors over design... because I am so art oriented
  they have a hard time with that because it's not rigid or organized or whatever.\r\n\r\nI
  recently heard David Carson remark on the following question... where does art end
  and design begin?  It's a question I have been thinking a lot about, especially
  since I'm at a crossroads in my education.  So what is the difference?  Where does
  one begin and the other end?"
comments:
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: 'I think design IS a form of art (the new Pop Art), but hasn''t been recognized
    as that yet. The difference is maybe that art is usually not made for someone
    else & should only satisfy the artist. In design however the client has the final
    word & he has to be satisfied even if that means leaving the designer in complete
    disagreement. The times, they are a-changing & just as much as Pop Art was first
    sniffed at by the art connaisseurs, it will take some time for design to find
    its way to recogntition. Today, there are more means & tools for reaching more
    people than ever & there''s no longer a need for a "bridge" (read: galleries and
    such) between the artist & his audience. Design is a far more direct & interactive
    kind of art, but I''m sure within a few years the already fine lines between art
    & design will blur even more & eventually disappear. In the future there will
    probably be no more need for art as such, because it will be all around us. Most
    people just still need to learn to look at things with different eyes. It''s about
    changing the state of people''s mind & time will surely do that for us.'
  created: '2007-04-20 11:17:38'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: In art you please yourself - in design you please the client. In art you can
    be universal - in design you solve a specific problem. If you only want to do
    your own thing stick to art  but if you want to help other people with their thing
    go for design.
  created: '2007-04-20 11:22:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "OK, so you're a student and you have a design problem to solve.\r\nSome of
    you will seek the direction that's \"out there\", working with precedents that
    have proven effective, and in this you're learning to sync up with the way that
    professional design culture works, becoming familiar with its techniques, styles
    and nuances. Others will take a more experimental approach, which is likely to
    be more expressive of what's inside. There's room for both approaches to design,
    and anything on the spectrum, because clients vary. Just be aware that David Carson's
    kind of design, revered though it may be in the metaculture of the design world,
    and the kind of clients who support that kind of approach/attitude, are in the
    minority in the workaday world."
  created: '2007-04-20 12:52:43'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "the two previous make very good points (\"design is a form of art\" / \"\"in
    art you can be universal - in design you solve a specific problem...\"). this
    is actually a topic that's being delved into in another current thread: http://typophile.com/node/33143\r\nthe
    problem is, the question itself is so subjective that 100 people will give one
    hundred different responses. was lautrec an \"artist,\" or was he a \"designer\"?
    what about warhol or rembrandt or carson? depending on your viewpoint, contradictory
    arguements can easily be made.\r\na more important question (i believe), then,
    is how does an individual find their voice of expression?  one of my favorite
    authors is gabriel garcia marquez. he lives and writes in colombia. he writes
    in spanish.\r\n\r\ni can't read spanish.\r\n\r\nedith grossman is his translator,
    and through her work, i am able to understand and appreciate garcia marquez's
    writing."
  created: '2007-04-20 12:56:14'
- author:
    name: missgiggles
    picture: 111889
  body: Is this for a dissertation? My friend is doing it on this topic. Art is a
    form of communicating thoughts and feelings in any form i.e be it abstract or
    realistic and design is something designed for a purpose i.e. a chair for sitting
    on, a bed to sleep on but then it has the aesthetics of becoming a part of art
    too as you could have a simple chair but then they are all different beacuse some
    oare jsut wooden and are minimalist and others have chrome legs and a different
    material for the back etc so then it becomes a form of art and design as Bauhaus
    believed in 'Form over Funnction'. Look into Bauhaus.
  created: '2007-04-20 13:03:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "A classic discussion of art vs craft is in R.G. Collingwood's <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Principles-Art-Galaxy-Books/dp/0195002091/ref=sr_1_13/002-0804764-7091213?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1177071260&sr=8-13\">Principles
    of Art</a>.\r\n\r\nBasically the generally accepted view, probably influenced
    by Collingwood, is, as Miss G. says, that the difference is in the goal: art is
    aimed at self-expression or communication of a personal vision, whereas design
    is in service of another purpose. That may be a comfortable chair, a readable
    book, a liveable house, and advertisement that sells a product. Aesthetics is
    always part of design, but it is in a service role--serving the purpose of the
    design. \r\n\r\nThus the difference is not in use of materials or even in aesthetic
    merit, but purpose. Thus there are said to be Frank Lloyd Wright houses that are
    great aesthetically but their roofs leak and the kitchens are too small for use.
    Great as art, but failures as design. \r\n\r\nAs I wrote in the other thread,
    to me what is exciting about design is that it is part of the texture of daily
    life, and makes other people's lives better. The down side for some is that design
    has a service role, not a starring role. There is an essential humility about
    good design. What the designer gets in return for that humility is a widespread
    presence and usage that art almost never has. \r\n\r\nAnother aspect that Collingwood
    writes about is that in artistic creation the artist doesn't know the end goal,
    but it is discovered in the artistic process. The craftsman knows much better
    his or her end goal, and what constitutes success in achieving it. This distinction
    is a bit more problematic, as there is also discovery in a design process, but
    I think there is something in it. "
  created: '2007-04-20 13:40:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Art ends and design begins with the client.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-20 14:04:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If you have a specific content that intends to be communicated to elicit
    a specific response from a targeted audience, you have design.  \r\nClient is
    saying something to his potential customers to get them to buy his product.\r\nClient
    is explaining to shopping mall visitors how to get around the facility so they
    find their desired destination.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-20 14:12:23'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: chris -- but what about rembrandt's portraits? almost all of them were commissions
    (work for clients)... the line's more blurry, i think. maybe there isn't even
    a line at all. sometimes, it seems like seuss's sneetches. us and them.
  created: '2007-04-20 14:15:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, though I agree in general, there is an exception. As Patty noted in
    the other thread on 'best designer', some people are commissioned to do art. \r\n\r\nIf
    a maker of things visual has a client that wants art, then that maker can be an
    artist rather than a designer. So it seems the key issue of art vs design is not
    only whether there is a client, but whether the priority is on serving primarily
    needs and goals of the client, or primarily the creative's own personal expression.\r\n\r\nedit:
    I cross posted with you, Chuck. The case of Rembrandt I think shows that the difference
    is in the purpose of the work rather than the result. You can have dreadful, failed
    art that is still clearly art, in terms of the goal of self-expression. And you
    can have things that are clearly design, but are artistically superior to much
    art. \r\n\r\nSo maybe Rembrandt had to put a priority on some of his portraits
    being good likenesses and flattering, but they ended up great art anyway. And
    if I executed a portrait with self-expression in mind, I am sure the result wouldn't
    be any Rembrandt!  "
  created: '2007-04-20 14:28:32'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: The lines that devide art from design are very thin & more than often get
    intertwined. I likes Chris's statement that art ends & design begins with the
    client, but as Chuck said even artists like Rembrandt worked for clients. Heck,
    Warhol spent a great deal of his artistic life doing commisioned portraits just
    to finance his filming career. It's too much of an ideal to think that the goals
    in art & design are different. Ever since art became popular for the masses &
    branding became a part of design, there's no longer a line to draw between the
    two. And even designers sometimes use an older idea for a new assignment, so the
    approach is not all that different either. New techniques have just made it easier
    for both artists & designers to showcase & promote their work. Maybe the given
    deadline in design is the only distinctive difference left. I think the terms
    artists & designers are titles that you can only get through recognition by others
    & their point of view will then decide which of the two you really are. I predict
    that in a few years from now graphic design & art will all be consumed under the
    same factor being culture.
  created: '2007-04-20 14:44:07'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "My definition:\r\nArt = client is you\r\nDesign = client is paying you"
  created: '2007-04-20 14:46:29'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: i agree that intent is very important when we're separating art from everything
    else. another example  might be william carlos williams; "this is just to say"
    moves from a quick note to poetry solely because of intent. but i also maintain
    that ultimately such classifications are more a human desire to generalize than
    they are useful or meaningful understandings.
  created: '2007-04-20 14:51:41'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: But what if the artist makes his work for an exposition (they're often asked
    to participate in group expostions for example) or sells a piece of art? Does
    the art became design in that case?
  created: '2007-04-20 14:57:39'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: but i would also say that many students use the "i'm an artist" crutch to
    justify their own work in response to an instructor's goal of instructing. it
    becomes a "i can't be wrong because i'm an artist" excuse, as if the student is
    struggling against the whole purpose of their education.
  created: '2007-04-20 14:58:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Chuck and William,\r\nI added my second post as a way of clarifying the first.
    I realize that there has been commissioned art for centuries. The pieta, the ceiling
    of Michaelangelo, etc. You might call these things design in art's clothing. If
    the Pope or the Medici, or the wealthy patrons of Rembrandt either specifically
    said \"This is what I want, do it this way\" or if was just implied by their position
    of power, criteria were set with a purpose to be achieved and a price was paid
    for that. There is no doubt that an artist with the talent of Rembrandt would
    certainly be quite artful in his execution of the portrait contract. I wonder
    what he would have done if he could just do it his own way? To me, when the message
    is clear to convey and the terms are agreed upon, it is design--or at least \"by\"
    design. For my taste in art, the stuff I quickly pass by in any museum or gallery,
    is the commissioned portrait of the wealthy and powerful. Even though they may
    be exquisitely painted, they are typically boring to me. I can admire them for
    great articulation and painterly skill--even for getting the rich old bugger to
    agree to pay for the thing but I would rather see something done without the need
    for ego-stroking and anointment to deity of the commissioner.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-20 15:02:20'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: what i think was particularly "artful" in rembrandt's portraits was his ability
    to (in a fairly subversive way) inject his own viewpoints into his commissioned
    work, saying what he felt was important while tricking the client into thinking
    otherwise.
  created: '2007-04-20 15:06:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"students use the \u201Ci\u2019m an artist\u201D crutch\"\r\n\r\nOh, how
    true! These are the same folks who will grow up to become an \"Artiste\" and do
    selfannointing crap while living off of someone else's labors.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-20 15:10:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"while tricking the client into thinking otherwise\"\r\n\r\nThat is what
    I meant by \"getting the old bugger to pay\" . :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-20 15:12:36'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: arty and crafty!
  created: '2007-04-20 15:14:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ah yes! There is a movement in there somewhere Chuck :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-20 15:17:03'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I kind of like the old terms \"commercial artist\" and \"fine artist.\"\r\n\r\nIf
    a fine artist gets a commission to do a painting, it's not the same as when a
    commercial artist gets an illustration assignment. In a fine art commission, it
    would be pretty outrageous for the client to send a painting back to the artist
    with a list of revisions. With commercial art, revisions are normal."
  created: '2007-04-20 15:54:06'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Well, as a kid & adolescent I was often referred to as "an artist" & since
    then I've come to dislike the term. It was also -in a very "box minded" way- used
    to describe parts of my personality that had absolutely nothing to do with drawing
    (eg. a kind of laissez-faire attitude, an -occording to others- weird sense of
    dressing, sleeping till noon & staying up all night) & apparantly most of these
    prejudices have survived till today. And now, the same is happening with the word
    "designer". Proclaiming oneself as either an artist or a designer is just pretentious
    & as stated in previous posts often an easy excuse. I don't like to be referred
    to as either, but I'd rather have myself described as a (graphic) illustrator.
    That's the most objective describtion I can think off & I hate the idea of myself
    or anyone else for that matter putting me in a predefined box. I also like to
    write every now and then & everyone that has read some of my texts defines it
    as poetry, but the same problem arises here. Poetry is also something for others
    to decide, but every arty farty term now comes with a denotation due to misuse
    by pretentious wannabe's. Therefor I simply refer to my texts as lyrics without
    music or simply texts. My drawings or designs if you will (the term can be broadly
    interpreted & can also just mean graphic work) are just drawings. Nothing more,
    nothing less.
  created: '2007-04-20 15:57:03'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: art history is full of portrait artists having to redo paintings until the
    patron was happy.
  created: '2007-04-20 16:03:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"art history is full of portrait artists having to redo paintings until
    the patron was happy.\"\r\n\r\nI know of several cases in this year. Think of
    why some people today get their portraits painted instead of photographed?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-20 16:18:57'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I would put commissioned portraits in the commercial art column, in spite
    of the fact that they sometimes end up in art museums. As has been said, the line
    is a bit fuzzy.\r\n\r\nUltimately, I think it comes down to expressing one's own
    message or vision vs. expressing a client's message or vision. The fuzzy part
    comes when these two goals are intermingled."
  created: '2007-04-20 16:39:18'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Here\u2019s a fun one: how much classic fine art should really be classified
    as design? Why do art historians seem to think that the Sistine Chapel and all
    of the paintings inside are great examples of fine art that have more in common
    with the work of Mark Rothko than with the environmental design that Vignelli
    and Associates did at St. Peter\u2019s in New York? Why do the great Roman sculpture
    copyists get associated more with Rodin than with Aalvar Aalto? Why are the great
    scribes who produced the <em>Book of Kells</em> covered in surveys of western
    art history, as well as William Morris, but one has to pick up design history
    books to find mentions of Jan Tschichold, and a biography to understand the work
    of Paul Renner?\r\n\r\nI think that one reason the line between art and design
    is so hard to define is that even art historians have a hard time dealing with
    the magnitude of the break with tradition that occured in the Twentieth Century.
    I believe that today\u2019s designers are the scions of the masters that preceded
    modernism, and that what people now refer to as fine artists are a very different
    animal following\u2014and establishing\u2014an entirely new tradition."
  created: '2007-04-20 17:11:39'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Agreed. Michaelangelo was a designer with a brief and a client.\r\n\r\nThe
    Goldberg varaiations were commissioned in order to allow someone to sleep (the
    story is slightly different but this part remains true).\r\n\r\npeace\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-20 17:31:05'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "it's true. very confusing. i try to avoid the classifications altogether.\r\ni
    mean think about it:  until last century, i would guess almost 50% of western
    art was religious in subject. so-- were these paintings, drawings, etchings, etc.
    \"art,\" or were they illustrations?"
  created: '2007-04-20 17:37:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Graphic design as we know it is a fairly new profession. I might guess that
    if we begin looking at when words and pictures were created together as a piece,
    we might get closer to a defining moment. The words would also have to be with
    purpose and meant to augment the image with a message. Georges Braque's still
    lifes with \"Journal\" in the mix don't cut it but perhaps the work of  Toulouse-Lautrec
    really bridges the gap. Perhaps art historians have ignored commercial work like
    posters and play bills as \u2018non art\u2019 unless the artist involved also
    had a painting career. \r\nAndy Warhol studied art at my alma mater CMU, and we
    had some of the same teachers. Robert Lepper was one of them. He spoke of Warhol
    occasionally and mentioned he had taken some graphic arts classes there as well.
    Andy used combined graphic arts images with his fine art work as a mode of self
    expression rather than for a clients need.\r\n\r\nChrisL "
  created: '2007-04-20 17:41:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "At school/college, you do it all yourself.\r\nOr perhaps there is some collaboration.\r\nBut
    in work, there is division of labour, which introduces the role of art director
    (/senior designer) and production worker.\r\nThere's a certain amount of that
    in both fine and commercial art and design (Fine Design -- now there's a category!)\r\nThere
    was division of labour in the <em>bodegas</em> of the old masters, just as there
    is with today's art, and in both cases the person in charge could be termed art
    director."
  created: '2007-04-20 17:53:50'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Graphic design as we know it is a fairly new profession. I might guess
    that if we begin looking at when words and pictures were created together as a
    piece, we might get closer to a defining moment.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut even that\u2019s
    a pretty iffy distinction. Designers today convey messages without words when
    literacy/language barriers occur much like the way religious art of Europe was
    used to reach the illiterate majority. And words and images have been used together
    since language began, when A looked like V and meant <em>cow</em>.\r\n\r\n<cite>Perhaps
    art historians have ignored commercial work like posters and play bills as \u2018non
    art\u2019 unless the artist involved also had a painting career.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    seems to me that they tend to focus on the starving artists and the weirdos. Just
    about every art historian considers Lautrec relevant to the era of the impressionists
    and post impressionists; but plenty entirely ignore Mucha when discussing art
    nouveau while others credit him with starting it. What\u2019s the difference?
    One was an inbred alcoholic who drank himself to death, the other was disciplined,
    internationally famous, and enormously successful. I suspect that, had Warhol
    found ways to work his critiques of culture into his advertising as opposed to
    turning to \u201Cfine art\u201D he would be ignored by  mainstream art historians
    and known only to designers."
  created: '2007-04-20 18:53:16'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Artists like a 'Rembrandt' were/are commissioned because of their own individual
    brush. They have achieved a clearity of understanding not only how to paint but
    what to paint (ie composition). Rembrandt's was unique in many ways - command
    of light and shadow, quality of line - are just two of the more obvious characterists
    to <em>his</em> brush.\r\n\r\nDesigners are no less individual, they just use
    a different kind of brush - like Alexander McQueen, http://www.alexandermcqueen.com/flash.html
    , Ralph Lauren http://www.polo.com/frontdoor/index.jsp?videoflash=false&flashversion=9\r\n\r\nAnd
    as for the team player, compromise your unique voice, argument goes take a look
    at these two ukiyo-e graphic artist - Hiroshige http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hiroshige
    , and Hokusai  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hokusai , are well known examples.
    These graphic artist shook up the whole global 'establisnment' - and didn't even
    touch their own work. It was the unsung wood block carvers who produced their
    work - and yet Hiroshige and Hokusai (amoungst many other fine wood block print
    graphic artist) each maintained a very distinctive voice.\r\n\r\nI don't buy into
    the argument that commercial art is to appease the public and fine art is to appease
    the artist because no master that I've known would/could be pushed, no matter
    where their work is to be used. I'm sure that if you were to tell a <em>master</em>
    how to compose their work and try to instruct them on how to depict a form - they
    would toss you out of their studio in a heart beat.\r\n\r\nHaving said that -
    the accomplished Type, Graphic, Fashion, Canvas, Sculpture etc., etc., 'artist/designer'
    are well aware of the guidelines they not only exist in - but they enjoy pushing
    those boundaries however possible, whilst maintaining their unique voice.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately
    I understand that not everyone has/can develope their own unique voice, or simply
    have bills to pay, and must make 'compromises' along the way - then yeah sure,
    portraits are repainted to the buyer's taste and graphics are pushed by the client's
    taste.\r\n\r\nAnd for those who don't believe in the Individual as an artist/designer
    - http://www.segmation.com/ & http://www.paintbynumberz.com/ \r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-20 19:05:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"look at these two ukiyo-e graphic artist - Hiroshige...\"\r\n\r\nIs that
    the derivation of your screen name?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-20 19:09:05'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: ">>I\u2019m sure that if you were to tell a master how to compose their work
    and try to instruct them on how to depict a form - they would toss you out of
    their studio in a heart beat.\r\n\r\nalthough that thought is very idealistic,
    i think most people -- including the majority of masters -- are probably a bit
    more pragmatic. rembrandt altered work to suit patrons, as did botticelli, ghirlandaio
    and da vinci. even the great galileo knew the pressures of the day.\r\nbut more
    than that, i don't buy into the idea that understanding the objective art of design
    makes a person less of an artist or puts their work on par with paint-by-numbers."
  created: '2007-04-20 19:55:55'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: "Thanks for all your thoughts about what separates art and design.  It does
    seem like quite a murky subject, doesn't it?\r\n\r\nHere's my two cents: I actually
    didn't start out in design via the traditional way of going to school, getting
    an internship, then getting a job.  I started out doing design for bands and concert
    promoters, and realized it really was what I wanted to do because I recognized
    the art behind it.  I think the people who are arguing that design is driven by
    the client are correct, but it is moving to where designers are starting to become
    artists.  Most of the famous designers, from Saul Bass to David Carson, have a
    distinct style.  Even Paula Scher, who many people say doesn't have a specific
    style, has something there that makes me say \"I bet Paula Scher did that\".  There
    are still the ad agencies and design houses that do things the traditional way,
    and they aren't going to go away, but I am starting to see that there is a commodity
    out there.  People hired Carson because they wanted that style.  If someone wants
    a simple corporate website, they're going to go with the local design house.\r\n\r\nSomeone
    made the comment about Commercial Art... I like that term a lot!"
  created: '2007-04-20 20:07:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There is a difference between \"a certain style\" and deducing who the designer
    is. I think the whole concept of style for design (other than things like fashion/clothes)
    is counterproductive. If someone after-the-fact lays a style label on a designers
    work, that is bad enough. If a designer tries to emulate a style when they do
    their work instead of solving the clients communication problem, then they are
    pi\xDFing in the wind and full of themselves. If a designer honestly approaches
    a design problem with the tools of his time, there may be an indication that they
    worked during a particular era. That is not the same as the retro-is-everything
    guys who look for a past era to rip off just for the \"Look\" rather than solving
    the communication problem. It is an issue of honesty, not style.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-20 20:39:31'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Hiroshige has made me wonder if discussions like this should be conducted
    with the works of the greatest matters as part of the discussion, or if they should
    simply be placed into some different class requiring different discussion. Of
    course that would also require defining who is and is not a great master, but
    I digress...\r\n\r\nThere are countless unknown artists for all of the knowns.
    Hokusai is probably the greatest artist to every handle a brush, Michaelangelo
    the greatest to carve stone, and so on. What happens when we consider the common
    art and common artists; the pottery and painting produced by our mothers and grandmothers?
    What about the countless reports, advertisements, and magazine layouts with no
    design credits? Should we really be examining art at that level, which accounts
    for far more of the world\u2019s creative output than does the work of masters?
    And when we do, does the expression of the Sunday painters and compromising unknowns
    designers indicate a much greater split betweeen art and design than the work
    of the masters, or does is show us that there is even less contrast than we previously
    thought?"
  created: '2007-04-20 20:41:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: It's interesting the way that the word "art" was used in commercial graphics.
    Prior to digitization, "the artwork" meant the art board with the type galleys
    and PMTs pasted up on it, suitably keylined with rules drawn for picture areas
    and crop marks, and with cut rubylith overlays and tissue overlays indicating
    colour breaks. When ready to go to the film house, this was "finished art". Put
    together by the "paste-up artist"/"mechanical assembly artist". So "art" referred
    quite specifically to skilled handwork which was an interim step in the production
    process.
  created: '2007-04-20 20:47:41'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: "Chris, I agree to a certain extent, but to me design is all about style.
    \ When I say style I mean style, not kitch.  I agree the the retro for the sake
    of retro thing is dumb and overused.  But style is not necessarily genre... for
    example, Saul Bass had a distinctive style to everything, from his more rigid
    identity work to his fun and playful movie posters.\r\n\r\nThis is where a lot
    of designers frustrate me.  I feel that a lot of us get into a mindset of being
    information architects.  And I think that design is more.  Sure, you can design
    a brochure that looks pleasing to the eye and presents all of the information
    in a great way.  But I feel that if we are hired by a client we are doing them
    a disservice if we remain sterile in our work.  So instead of a good brochure,
    make an amazing brochure.  If we are to do the best for our client we continue
    to come up with innovative ways to present the information.\r\n\r\nPart of what
    we are paid for is presenting a creative solution.  So throw yourself into it.
    \ If a client is paying you $75 an hour (or more depending on who you are), make
    it worth their while.  Don't give them vanilla."
  created: '2007-04-20 21:33:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Hokusai is probably the greatest artist to handle a brush\r\n\r\nI saw the
    amazing Hokusai exhibition here at the Smithsonian recently. Strangely enough,
    he impressed me more as a designer and illustrator than an artist in the Western
    sense. You could see he was absolutely the father of modern design in his use
    of space--notan--and assymetric balance of flat colors. His mastery is just breathtaking;
    I have not seen an equal to that.  \r\n\r\nThough his stuff is brilliantly dramatic
    and eye-catching, somehow I missed the inner light of soulfulness that you see
    in Rembrandt, some of the Chinese scrolls, and others. \r\n\r\nI wonder what his
    conception of what he was doing, in terms of art vs design. "
  created: '2007-04-20 21:34:09'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: "im inspired just by reading this wonderful thread.\r\n\r\npersonaly i see
    design and art not as contradictory but as a kind of prism, a gradient if you
    will of colors. one side is artist, the middle is designer, and at the far end
    of the other side is advertiser.\r\n\r\nwhen i started learning design, we were
    taught that being \"arty\" is okay but not for the purpose of being a designer.
    then later i found out that art can be intertwined with design, if the conditions
    allow it. personally i aspire as a student now and as a designer in the future,
    to do art as well as design, and to touch different shades of this theroretical
    prism. if we are talking about branding, then it's supposed to better for the
    client to have a designer with strict advertising skills. but now im working on
    rebranding a pro-peace organization called \"peace core\" (some of you may have
    seen it). as a part of this rebranding, i had to reccomend and design ways to
    advertise the organization and to generate responces and awareness amongst civilians,
    about recent events that are related to the palestinian-israeli relationship.
    my suggestion, (alongside guerilla advertising) was to create art instalations
    on the street. and so an important part of branding process, included artistic
    installations and basically art. (important to notice that this wasn't a real
    job but a class in the design college).\r\n \r\nart and design can leave in peace
    side by side. when designing certain products it's more possible. if you are designing
    things like books or books covers, you can use artistic measures as well as design
    measures.\r\nso i think it's possible if you really want and willing to try doing
    that.\r\ni can't think of myself withought art, i think i have been a much more
    boring designer. i have another project where we were told to design a book, and
    i think that using my artistic skills, i designed the book with images and text
    that respond to the text, thus weaving my \"unique hand\" into a product that
    requires design solution.\r\n\r\nby the way - about artists - i understood something
    about art. i was offered to do a big exhibition of my art in my school. the head
    of the design department is the curator of the exhibition, and when we sat to
    \ decide which of my works to exhibit and which not, he chose some that i liked
    and some i liked less. he also turned down on several works i wanted to exhibit.
    i understood that the institution i exhibit in (this case it's my college) has
    it's needs and it's perception. the curator has his own mind of what to use, and
    what would be un suitable. this resembles design, and i think that it happens
    all along the art world.\r\n\r\ni think (from my brief brief knowledge in design)
    that designers aren't just humble servile vassals of a client, we have qualities
    that the client has chosen us for. some can appreciate it, some can't."
  created: '2007-04-20 21:54:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>This is where a lot of designers frustrate me. I feel that a lot of
    us get into a mindset of being information architects. And I think that design
    is more.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt can be hard to resist the temptation to try and be Josef
    M\xFCller-Brockmann or Alan Fletcher; I think that the answer is to find a sweet
    spot in the middle, and that is not an easy thing to do. It does not seem that
    the constant influx of technology into, and the effect said technology has on
    design, is helping much. But few things worth doing are done with ease. \r\n\r\n<cite>I
    saw the amazing Hokusai exhibition...I wonder what his conception of what he was
    doing, in terms of art vs design.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat was one amazing exhibition.
    It left me with the feeling that Hokusai transcended what most of the world understands
    about art and artists. I felt similar, albeit less powerful, effects when I walked
    through the Orsay and the Uffizi. \r\n\r\nMaybe the problem with trying to really
    understand art and design is that creativity, and appreciation of creativity\u2019s
    fruits, is an essential part of our brains and minds. As the old saying goes,
    if it were simple enough for us to understand, we would be to simple to understand
    it. \r\n\r\nOr maybe the answer to these questions is so simple that we won\u2019t
    resolve it by thinking at all. "
  created: '2007-04-20 21:58:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What does style have to do with being or not being sterile, with throwing
    yourself into a project or not, with a good brochure or an amazing brochure? Nothing!\r\nStyle
    is one of those words art reps throw around to hype up something. A design should
    stand on its own without the need to be pigeon holed into a style. \r\nSaul Bass's
    \"rigid identity work\" was done by the folks who worked for him (like one of
    my old classmates). Saul was the name and the connection. His love was motion
    work and he was damn good at it. I fail to see a continuity of style between his
    \"Walk on the Wild Side\" and \"Around the World in 80 Days\" titles. Style says
    \"It is all about me\" instead of it is all about a good [great, amazing, stupendous]
    solution to a communication issue. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-20 22:05:30'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: <a href="http://www.lyricsfreak.com/p/prince/style_20111123.html">Style is
    puppy breath.</a>
  created: '2007-04-20 22:14:09'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "i'm reminded of a conversation i had with a student. he was a wonderful student,
    and did some really outstanding work. but he was very worried. \"chuck,\" he moaned
    one day, close to graduation, \"i love what i'm doing, but i still haven't found
    my STYLE yet!\"\r\ni told him he should thank his lucky stars, and if he could
    say the same thing 10 years later, he'd really be blessed."
  created: '2007-04-20 22:25:41'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Chuck, your ignorance of how an artist describes form and <em>how</em> to
    compose (especially a master) is holding you back. Note: I did not say <em>what</em>
    to compose.\r\n\r\n<em>although that thought is very idealistic, i think most
    people \u2014 including the majority of masters \u2014 are probably a bit more
    pragmatic. rembrandt altered work to suit patrons, as did botticelli, ghirlandaio
    and da vinci. even the great galileo knew the pressures of the day.</em>\r\n\r\nRembrandt
    never compromised his brush. Sure subjects in his canvas may have changed (aka
    the elements of the composition) - but <em>how</em> he described mass and space
    was <em>never</em> conducted by his patrons, could be why he was commissioned
    in the first place? Again, the subject matter may change - but the technique stays
    constant. Please try to understand the difference.\r\n\r\nFurthermore Chuck, to
    find your voice (what you glib as 'style') in any given discipline is a great
    great thing. It's a blessing - not a curse ...at any age. \r\nAnd those that do
    have a voice and have found a way to communicate their 'art' (including designers
    of Type), go on to inspire others not only from their work, but also from their
    writtings. A classic case are the complete letters of van gogh - who can't learn
    from his voice?\r\n\r\n'nough said.\r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-21 06:02:58'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "From what I understand Bass had a friggin tight technique. \r\n\r\nI think
    most people don't understand what 'art' is. Probably because of crap cliches like
    \"art is in the eye of the beholder\".\r\n\r\nBut, just as all noise is not music,
    all paint/graphics is not art. Noise can <em>become</em> music when it comes from
    one who has developed an understanding of technique - ie a Mozart, <em>the</em>
    Rolling Stones et al.. But without technique it's still just noise.\r\n\r\nWhen
    technique has been mastered, then the heavens open up. You can sleeze a technique,
    rock a technique, or be as refined and elegant as the day is long.\r\n\r\nBut
    yeah I agree, first must come sound technique. Technique is everything - purpose
    is everything too. And for those who can master 'technique' and get a grip on
    'purpose' then 'expression' can have a chance. And that, I believe, is where 'art'
    begins.\r\n\r\nit's only rock and roll\r\n\r\nBut I like it\r\n \r\nlike it \r\n\r\nyes
    I do...\r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro \r\n"
  created: '2007-04-21 07:37:30'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "But not everyone likes rock and roll...\r\nIn the end everything from art
    to design (if you want to distinguish the two), music to movies, etc. is still
    in the eye of the beholder meaning that not everyone will appreciate a piece of
    art (/design/whatever...) as much as the next person. You can argue about the
    fact that there's always a group of ignorants that don't \"understand\" the art,
    but when you throw music into the whole discussion, it's a lot clearer. Who of
    all people who enjoy music actually know anything about sound technique?\r\nBesides,
    some of what we call the greatest artists of all time now we're not recognised
    as such in their time and had to struggle to make ends meet. You could say that
    time is the best judge to test something's value, but then again, not everything
    that survives is great. I believe that art is indeed in the eye of the beholder
    & that whatever ends up in a museum is probably enjoyed by more people, but not
    necessarely better than a scribbling on a wall somewhere. Personal taste is always
    a factor in judging a piece of work (sure, there's are some \"basics\" (such as
    technique) that might be \"objectively\" discussed) & where the majority of personal
    tastes agree, that's where art is born (or broken), but it remains a matter of
    taste. I generally like to see all these things as a sign of the times & part
    of our culture which is now broader than ever."
  created: '2007-04-21 11:41:09'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "I think there is a distinction between \"style\" and \"voice.\"\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-21 14:41:22'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I disagree about technique. Some of the best rock has been made by folks
    with very limited technique. That's the nice thing about rock - there's still
    room for rawness.\r\n\r\nSo it depends on the form.\r\n\r\nAnd if you have paid
    attention to John Cage, all noise IS music, as is silence. Being a musician is
    a way of listening to the world more than anything, and then interpreting what
    you have experienced through the lens of your persona.\r\n\r\nI have always felt
    that the air was full of music and when I was on, I was just more receptive to
    the eternal songs and sounds that surround me.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-04-21 16:15:12'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "The finest thing about improvisation is breaking out of the sense of linear
    time that enslaves us. Being able to shatter time and then return is what makes
    the great ones. We are all playing the same scales, notes, intervals and the difference
    comes from our sense of time.\r\n\r\nPlaying is the best way for me to leave this
    world behind for a few moments. I consider those moments real, and everything
    else is just our agreed upon reality.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-04-21 16:28:35'
- author:
    name: dmajor
    picture: 111920
  body: Hiroshige might not be using the word "technique" qualitatively, but might
    be referring to the mode/medium (skilled or raw) in which the artist works. As
    in The Ramones' three-chord technique, a technique they mastered.
  created: '2007-04-21 17:23:44'
- author:
    name: dmajor
    picture: 111920
  body: "I think \"In art you please yourself - in design you please the client\"
    gives two  frustrating definitions. The \"self-expression\" model of art is dangerous,
    and I think it's part of the reason the word art often connotes inaccessibility
    or incommunicable profundity in society. I think, I hope, art must be involved
    and implicated beyond the individual - socially, economically, and emotionally.
    \r\n\r\nAs for the definition of design, \"the client\" has to be irrelevant.
    To define design by how money changes hands is difficult to accept. I hope that
    design has some substance beyond who it is for. For me design is an idea in visual
    motion - art is more concerned with the tragedies and comedies and beauties of
    living.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-21 17:33:39'
- author:
    name: circehouse
    picture: 112151
  body: "Without reading any of the other replies, I would say this:\r\n\r\n\"Art\"
    is the personal expression or perception of an emotional reality.\r\n\r\n\"Design\"
    is the arrangement of symbols to persuade or encourage opinions."
  created: '2007-04-21 19:50:43'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: "\"What does style have to do with being or not being sterile, with throwing
    yourself into a project or not, with a good brochure or an amazing brochure? Nothing!\"\r\n\r\nAnd
    this is where I disagree completely.  In fact, I find this statement to be an
    enormous contradiction.  If something has no style, and I speak of style in the
    broadest sense here, it has no appeal.  Think about it... when you are shopping
    at your local supermarket, what is your eye immediately drawn to?  The packaging
    with the most appealing style.  That is no accident.  And the person who designed
    that was able to create that style, that pizzaz that caught your eye.  It may
    not be the product you end up buying, but it was the first product you saw on
    the shelf.\r\n\r\nWe don't need to necessarily stand out like a sore thumb, but
    we should definitely have something to offer."
  created: '2007-04-21 22:02:09'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Christopher, this never used to be a problem because, as already mentioned
    here, there was always a relative consensus about the what the distinctions between
    client-commissioned work and self-expression, (or commercial art and fine art)
    meant in practice.\r\n\r\nYou could probably divide the people responding to this
    question, based on whether they cite the traditional distinctions or not, into
    two age groups.\r\n\r\nI see this as being a particular problem for younger people
    today, and part of my argument is that graphic design has just become too damn
    popular for its own good. Because the field is so crowded, there is an explosion
    of recently graduated designers doing 'self-commissioned' and 'self-published'
    work because they can't find enough commercial clients to sponsor their (largely
    self-indulgent) projects. \r\n\r\nBack in the day, the accepted phrase for 'self-publishing'
    was 'vanity publishing' \u2013 and would have implied that these people were pursuing
    some kind of fine art imperative by backing it with their own money, even if the
    project were not critically successful.\r\n\r\nIf you are really intrigued by
    this question, don't settle for DC's grandstanding platitudes about art & design;
    it was only said to inflate his already universally-acknowledged greatness. Look
    instead at the relationship between artist, curator and collector; the 'game'
    behind the 'game' of advertising is... fine art collection. Why? Charles Saatchi
    (a man whose agencies hire and fire the likes of Carson all the time) collects
    work by 'artists' like Damien Hirst and Tracy Emin; most of it is junk, and is
    occasionally mistaken for same, but Saatchi neither hires nor commissions them,
    and the monetary value of their work increases  <em> for his having chosen it</em>
    \u2013 so where does the power in their relationship reside?"
  created: '2007-04-22 04:23:03'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>so where does the power in their relationship reside?</em>\r\n\r\nWherever
    the creator of the \"art\" decides it does, actually.  \r\n\r\nIf I create \"art\"
    for my pleasure and price it as such, then the purchaser needs to decide whether
    or not they want to buy it (and that's their choice).  On the flip side, if a
    purchaser asks me to create something to their specifications, I need to look
    at whether it's \"design\" (they are paying me to execute something specific)
    or \"art\" (they are paying me to execute something creative but without details)
    -- there's a difference.\r\n\r\nBut if I create something to please me, and without
    a specific audience, then it is called what I want it to be.  ;-)  \r\n\r\nLately,
    I create what I want to, people buy it, and that's OK too...."
  created: '2007-04-22 05:11:29'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I play guitar because I need to.\r\n\r\nI design because I need to.\r\n\r\nThey
    are just serving different needs.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-04-22 05:32:53'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Art vs Design, flip floppy\r\n= Typography vs Calligraphy \r\n= Job vs hobby\r\n=
    2 not 1 copy\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-22 06:50:45'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: beautiful...
  created: '2007-04-22 07:19:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I cast my bread upon the waters\r\nand let it bob among the otters\r\nSometimes
    a nibble, or even a bite\r\nI'll still do it anyway, without a fright.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS:
    BRAVO Aziz!"
  created: '2007-04-23 13:00:18'
- author:
    name: klevergirl
    picture: 111385
  body: "I think we should al start by first defining \"Art\", which would be impossible
    as almost everything in life is a piece of art. From nature, to the art of cooking,
    the art of writing, the art of music...etc. etc. So yes, I'm a graphic designer,
    and yes, what I do is a type of art.\r\n\r\nLet your painting/drawing/illustrating
    capabilities shine through your new and upcoming design work and you will be successful
    no matter what. :)\r\n\r\nTo be irreplaceable, one must always be different..."
  created: '2007-04-23 17:39:10'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "No one is irreplaceable - history has clearly shown us that\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2007-04-23 17:41:12'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: http://www.flickr.com/photos/opera78/191601772/in/photostream/
  created: '2007-04-23 17:45:53'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_art_of_war\r\n\r\nYes, the term \"art\"
    can be applied to almost anything (as can the term \"war\" c.f. war on drugs,
    war on terror)\r\n\r\nI don't have much to add to what's been said. I'm both an
    artist and a designer. I love them both. The design pays the bills."
  created: '2007-04-23 18:20:33'
- author:
    name: WurdBendur
    picture: 110861
  body: "There seems to be a general misconception that Artists work only to please
    themselves. <em>This is absolutely untrue.</em> Artists also have to get paid,
    which is hard enough when you're not just doing whatever you feel like and ignoring
    potential clients. Lots of artists do commissioned work to the specifications
    of their client. The real difference, I think, is the degree of personal expression
    vs. the presentation. Art focuses more on expression and interpretation, while
    design is about presentation. Naturally these different focuses lend themselves
    to different markets.\r\n\r\nHowever, the two are not always clearly divided.
    As an art major, I encounter this issue all the time: there's quite a bit of tension
    between the departments and disagreement over what counts as which. Artists here
    treat design like a lower form of art (which is silly), and people who work in
    the middle (say Andy Warhol) are curiosities but not favorites.\r\n\r\nOne reason
    I'm still a student here is because I can't decide which way I want to go, and
    I don't understand why they won't just let me have both."
  created: '2007-04-23 21:32:24'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "The \"art\" world is full of phony baloneys. A lot of what gets called art
    has questionable aesthetic and cultural value. I've encountered the same attitude
    you talk about - one of my artist friends told me I should never tell anybody
    I'm a designer as well. Somehow teaching is sanctioned as a source of income for
    an artist, and of course it's OK to starve, but god forbid you have a day job
    and actually like it.\r\n\r\nThat said, there is a difference between design,
    illustration - no matter how talented the illustrator - and fine art.\r\n\r\nIf
    you want to pursue a design career you do have to be able to leave your ego &
    control at the door to some degree. The person who controls the purse strings
    (ok, we call them the client) will change things you love and make you do things
    you'd rather not do. If you can't stomach that you should probably not become
    a designer."
  created: '2007-04-23 21:59:01'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I went to Art School & I KNOW for a fact that 99,85% of 'Art' is B/S. And
    to make sure I wasn't going to add to that I went into illustration and graphic
    design.\r\n\r\nOnly problem with this insight I gained is that some of my best
    friends are artists and I always have to evade questions they pose to me.\r\n\r\nAs
    for the value of art vs the value of design: There is consolation in great art,
    but more people profit from a well designed water pump."
  created: '2007-04-23 23:49:25'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I went to Art School & I KNOW for a fact that 99,85% of \u2018Art\u2019
    is B/S.</cite>\r\n\r\nJust the expensive stuff. It\u2019s funny, but when it comes
    to living artists, I find that the less expensive and more obvious the work is,
    the better it is."
  created: '2007-04-24 00:22:02'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "Can design be art? If you flip the question: Can I open a can of sardines
    with Tracy Emins unmade bed? Well, maybe, but that\u2019s not what it\u2019s supposed
    to do.\r\n\r\nAs I see it, in a modernist context, nicely arranged type and interesting
    juxtapositions of shape and colour could well equal art. Not very interesting
    art, but still. In a contemporary art context however, that means Bo diddley squat.
    The modern concept of art is that <cite>anything</cite> can be art. All it needs,
    crassly, is someone to proclaim it as such. To be part of an international scene
    of contemporary art it also needs to be accepted by curators at galleries and
    biennials etc. And to do that it\u2019s not enough to intrigue a potential customer
    trying to sell chewing gum or to neatly arrange a masthead. It must be loaded
    with contemporary art discourse you see. Now of course, if You choose to print
    that fine piece of design and call it <cite>The tears of Gilles Deleuze</cite>
    it might just get slightly closer to art. On the other hand that might not win
    You the chewing gum account.\r\n\r\nOne fine example on the relation between art
    and design is how Erik Spiekermann defines  what he does: <cite>Contrary to popular
    belief, designers are not artists. They employ artistic methods to visualize thinking
    and process, but, unlike artists, they work to solve a client\u2019s problem,
    not present their own view of the world. If a design project, however, is to be
    considered successful \u2013 and that would be the true measure of quality \u2013
    it will not only solve the problem at hand, but also add an aesthetic dimension
    beyond the pragmatic issues.</cite>\r\n \r\nAnother example is the Icelandic artist
    Olafur Eliasson who has said <cite>Art asks questions, while design only gives
    answers.</cite> Although his views on design in general are bleak to say the least
    I find this rather comforting. It is within these constraints, as a graphic designer,
    I work. \r\n\r\nBut can contemporary artists work intimately as designers do,
    with big corporations and still ask relevant questions? Rarely I think, but artists
    Michael Elmgreen and Ingmar Dragsets Prada boutique in the desert could still
    be a fascinating example of collaboration.\r\n\r\nSo if art can be anything, why
    is it then necessary to be associated with it? Be proud of what You do and do
    your damn best, and surely that old beauty will take care of itself.\r\n\r\n\u0192\r\n
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-24 01:35:19'
date: '2007-04-20 04:09:26'
title: Art versus Design

---
