---
author:
  name: dezcom
  picture: 109959
body: "Thanks to Adobe's latest release, I can now actually tell all their programs
  apart! I just loaded my newly arrived CS3 suite. Miguel a while back posted some
  previews of the new icon system and I am pleased to say I LOVE the new system! With
  a very quick peek at the dock, I can instantly launch the Adobe app I want without
  having to figure what the butterfly/flower/whatever business is all about. It is
  now just, BaDaBing, right there! WHAT A PLEASURE! \r\n\r\nSo Miguel, I don't know
  who was smart enough to make the decision to go that way, but buy them a beer for
  me! BRAVO!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CS3icons_3956.png]"
comments:
- author:
    name: rfujiimoto
    picture: 112161
  body: "Looking forward to getting my upgrade!\r\n\r\nBut... ummmm... I'm sure you
    meant \"a very quick peek at the DOCK\"... didn't you?  ;-)"
  created: '2007-04-23 17:06:24'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Maybe he did.\r\n\r\nMaybe he didn't....  ;-)"
  created: '2007-04-23 17:17:54'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: The cock does look nicer now, doesn't it? ;)
  created: '2007-04-23 17:35:51'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Real Life Conversation with Chris\r\n\r\nChris: Dude, the new icons for CS3
    are Da bomb.\r\nMe: Really man, why?\r\nChris: Fo' sho, a quick peek at the ol'
    cock and blam instant photoshop.\r\nMe: Did you just say cock?!\r\nChris: Dock
    Fool, I said Dock <mumbles incoherently>\r\nMe: Sure ya did. \r\n\r\nChris, punching
    me in the ribs: Gotcha!\r\n\r\nEnd Scene\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-23 17:39:15'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Yay for post-announcement upgrades! My CS3 upgrade will cost me a whopping
    $5.
  created: '2007-04-23 17:46:35'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Pfff, $5? That's just too much. ;)
  created: '2007-04-23 17:49:03'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "The icons certainly are an improvement in their (relative) simplicity.\r\n\r\nBut
    to change the subject a bit: If anyone's using the new CS 3 programs on a G5 (or
    other PPC-based) Mac, how does the speed compare to the CS 2 versions? I'd be
    anxious to know especially if they're really slow (edit: though that's not what
    I've read so far regarding PS).\r\n\r\nOlli"
  created: '2007-04-23 18:21:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Now Otis, what was I tryin' to say? Sing it for me please!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DOCK_4791.jpg]\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS:
    NEVER trust spell check!"
  created: '2007-04-23 18:31:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Quickly moving right along now past my red-faced embarrassment and fat-fingered
    lack of typing skill :-/\r\n\r\nI have one of the original PPC G5 2ghz desktops
    and CS3 is actually FASTER!!! than its predecessor! So don't sweat it, just get
    it! It is quite snappy!\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: Now I better proooof read this
    puppy quick!"
  created: '2007-04-23 18:39:43'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "But back to the earlier conversation, I worked on a cookbook that had been
    translated from French to English (I did only the cover design). There was a recipe
    for coq au vin. The first instruction read \"First find your cock. The cock meat
    should feel firm to the touch.\"\r\n\r\nWe got a lotta laughs out of that one."
  created: '2007-04-23 18:46:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Patty,\r\nLOL! You definitly win the prize for that one!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-23 18:57:15'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019ve been using CS3 exclusively for a couple of weeks now, it really
    is a killer update. The new icon system is killer; I have yet to launch the wrong
    app. And talk about performance, it\u2019s a pretty impressive performance tweak,
    at least by Adobe standards. All the DP apps are rock solid stable too.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, I\u2019m still pretty ticked that getting this requires an expensive update
    with few new features that can justify the price. If Creative Suite had been published
    by a video game company, as opposed to Adobe, the performance overhaul and stability
    fixes from CS2 and CS3 would have been a free patch. If I actually had any money
    I would establish a fund to try and bring Inkscape, Scribus, and the GIMP up to
    par with Adobe\u2019s apps so that we could stop having to buy upgrades just to
    get bugfixes."
  created: '2007-04-23 19:05:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't know how Jpad got his copy so early or how Patty swung the deal for
    5 bucks but I am jealous on both counts!\r\n\r\nI do wish there was more Opentype
    support in this rev though. There are some added dictionairies and some type related
    interface changes which I am not sure are better or worse until I give it some
    time.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-23 19:18:39'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "For me, CS3 appears to be a more-power-for-mac-users update, which is very
    okay of course. Me Windows-User will wait for CS4. Updating is too expensive for
    me now.\r\n\r\nOn the icons: It's long time I have abandoned the original butterfly-flower-feather
    icons and changed them for my own versions."
  created: '2007-04-23 22:09:56'
- author:
    name: JeffPeppers
    picture: 129498
  body: "I don't particularly dislike the new icons\r\nI see the purpose/function\r\nthough
    its kind of peculiar to me, going from an image to 2 characters\r\n\r\nif you
    launched the wrong app before, \r\nhow much attention were you really paying?\r\n(maybe
    i'm a little bitter, i like pretty pictures)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: elena
      picture: 109925
    body: "I don't particularly like the new icons. For me real semplicity and visual
      effectiveness look like this:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.kare.com/shop.html\r\n\r\nSorry
      to bring back this old debate. \r\nI'm one of those who customize everything
      since MacOsX's first appearance. I don't want it to look old, or as it was before,
      but design choices should make sense.\r\n\r\nAnd I agree that this icons are
      a big improvement, mainly because the colors haven't changed again (which was
      the reason why I always clicked on the wrong icon)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-04-25 10:40:18'
  created: '2007-04-23 22:16:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"how much attention were you really paying?\"\r\n\r\nMuch more than any
    user should be required to and MUCH more than with any application I have ever
    used since 1986. I have used the Adobe apps since they hit the streets on day
    one. I was quite able to figure out which was which untill they started the CS
    naming series. I use these applications every day--practically all day. When I
    am working in a fury trying to meet a deadline or keep a train of thought, I should
    not be impeded by a cryptic icon system. If I wanted pretty pictures, I can load
    my desktop with them. To me, the previous picture icons were like trying to read
    my tax forms in Bickham Script with swash and all the frillies turned on. It might
    look pretty but is a pain in the a\xDF to read. Thank heavens Adobe saw the light
    and made their icons readable.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-23 22:37:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">When I am working in a fury trying to meet a deadline or keep a train of
    thought, I should not be impeded by a cryptic icon system.\r\n\r\nIgnorant question,
    but does the Mac have an equivalent to the ALT+TAB shortcut on the Windows application
    bar? I'd not think to use the mouse for switching between apps. "
  created: '2007-04-23 22:52:36'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I can't tell you how many times I opened InDesign when I was going for Photoshop.
    I had to separate them on the dock.\r\n\r\nThe $5 upgrade: three words \"post-announcement
    upgrade\". I am indebted to Paul Cutler for tipping me off to this and saving
    me $440."
  created: '2007-04-23 22:52:49'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Ignorant question, but does the Mac have an equivalent to the ALT+TAB
    shortcut on the Windows application bar? I\u2019d not think to use the mouse for
    switching between apps.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt does, and that features allows me to
    disable expose and get more hotkeys in Indesign."
  created: '2007-04-23 23:05:23'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: That shortcut is Command-Tab, where you just hold the Command-key and Tab
    thru a list of open programs (with Shift to modify the direction you tab in).
    I like that you can do this with your left hand, freeing up the right for mouse
    action.
  created: '2007-04-23 23:36:28'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Ignorant question, but does the Mac have an equivalent to the ALT+TAB
    shortcut on the Windows application bar? I\u2019d not think to use the mouse for
    switching between apps.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, but it only shows applications that are
    running. To start one up, the usual method is to go to the dock."
  created: '2007-04-23 23:38:31'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "I love the Photoshop CS3 beta and I'm on windows.  Getting Dreamweaver and
    Flash with the Design Premium upgrade makes it pretty economical.  \r\n\r\nI'm
    with you on the icons, Chris.  I think they are great.\r\n\r\nI just hope there
    is an osmosis filter for Illustrator so I can get a lot better with it.\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2007-04-23 23:55:16'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: If you used a little app called <a href="http://unsanity.com/haxies/fruitmenu">Fruit
    Menu</a>, you could setup a contextual menu with your apps and you'd never have
    to visit the dock again.
  created: '2007-04-24 00:08:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tootyfruity_3732.jpg]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-24 02:09:38'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "\"I have one of the original PPC G5 2ghz desktops and CS3 is actually FASTER!!!
    than its predecessor!\"\r\n\r\nThanks, Chris! That's so good to hear. (I have
    a late dual 2 GHz.)\r\n\r\n(Sorry for changing the subject \u2013 again!)\r\n\r\nOlli"
  created: '2007-04-24 06:19:28'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Here's a link to a set of updated CS3 icons with a little more character...
    \r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.artofadambetts.com/weblog/?p=190\">CS3 Icons</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-24 13:31:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "So now there is a set of arty replacement icons for those who want them.
    I am happy and proud to stick with the set that ships with CS3 from Adobe. \"Different
    strokes...\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-24 13:53:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Not a problem at all, Olli. Enjoy your upgrade!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-24 13:55:04'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "When I first saw the PSCS3 icon I thought it was a beta icon. It looks like
    an unfinished icon project to me. \r\n\r\nI'm going to wait to upgrade since it's
    <a href=\"http://news.zdnet.co.uk/software/0,1000000121,39286561,00.htm\">too
    f'in expensive in the UK</a>. It's priced at almost double the price and I've
    already bought the <a href=\"http://www.phaseone.com/\">(PhaseOne)Capture One
    Pro</a> RAW application. \r\n\r\nAdobe CS3 Design Premium (upgrade) is: $599.00
    (US) but $1199.49 (\xA3599 +VAT) in the UK."
  created: '2007-04-24 15:21:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Why is it so much more in the UK? Is there some kind of import tax or something?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-24 15:38:29'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "I guess American company accounts can only add and can't divide or multiply
    so they use the same number $599 and \xA3599. But it's really \xA3703.82 since
    you can't escape the VAT. ($1409.70) so It'll cost European companies hundred
    thousand more. \r\n\r\nThere is no import tax most US companies have Irish or
    Euro Sales/shipper places. Compugraphic had a place in Shannon and Microsoft has
    one in Dublin and Reading and London, so most set up a company to localize and
    ship around the world. \r\n\r\nIf they don't keep the prices the same in the European
    Union they will get in big trouble with Brussels.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-24 15:49:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Vince,\r\nThat sounds like a mistake. Surely, Adobe knows pounds, euros,
    and dollars are not valued the same. Has anyone questioned Adobe about this disparity
    in pricing? It may just be a typo or some other screwup. The software they send
    to the UK is exactly the same as the U.S. version, I assume.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-24 16:03:04'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: http://news.zdnet.co.uk/software/0,1000000121,39286561,00.htm this was linked
    in my first response....
  created: '2007-04-24 16:56:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\u201CAdobe blamed the increased prices on the fact that the UK market is
    smaller than the US. \"Adobe sets pricing in each market based on customer research,
    local market conditions and the cost of doing business. The costs of doing business
    in European markets are significantly higher per unit of revenue than in the US,\"
    the company said in a statement sent exclusively to ZDNet UK....\r\n\r\nThe revelation
    over Adobe's prices follows just a month after a petition was created on the 10
    Downing Street website to protest over unfair pricing of Microsoft Vista. ...priced
    in the UK at more than double the retail price in the US.\u201D\r\n\r\nUnbelievable,
    Vince!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-24 17:07:50'
- author:
    name: smarks
    picture: 109688
  body: "My CS3 upgrade is still on the way, but I've already prepared this set of
    customized icons for it.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CS3icons_mod_5715.png]\r\n\r\ns'marks\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-24 18:44:29'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Well I guess those UK prices make up for how Americans are totally fleeced
    when we travel to London. I find most prices are the same in dollars and pounds,
    i.e. $2 or \xA32 for a coffee; $200 or \xA3200 for a hotel, which of course comes
    to double in dollars."
  created: '2007-04-24 19:12:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I\u2019ve already prepared this set of customized icons\"\r\n\r\nThose
    must be the comic relief version :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-24 20:23:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Elena,\r\nThose were GOOD icons back then and only 16 pixels wide! That was
    before the marketing departments came in and screwed it all up with \"pissazz\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-25 12:59:22'
- author:
    name: elena
    picture: 109925
  body: "Yes you're absolutely right. \r\nBut I'm not saying that those icons are
    the best and should be used now. They are a good example of a good design answer
    in relation to a particular technology.\r\nAnd black and white, or at least coherence
    in defining the color code, are still important aspects of graphic design, right?"
  created: '2007-04-25 13:10:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Absolutely.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-25 13:36:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">looks like an unfinished icon project to me.\r\n\r\nAs I said in the first
    thread discussing these, I have the same feeling. The design has many virtues,
    but there is a plainness or bareness about it that is unnerving, like a room without
    furniture. Is it the elaborate gradient and no frame? I don't know what exactly
    is 'wrong', but something is. "
  created: '2007-04-25 13:48:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It does not look a bit wrong to me. The clean starkness makes all the Adobe
    icons stand out from the crowd of over-sizzled icons prolifferating the rest of
    my Dock now. \r\nRight on, Adobe, I can see clearly now!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-25 14:04:52'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Well, if you don't like the icons, you can always <a href=\"http://www.artofadambetts.com/weblog/?p=190\">download
    another set, made by Adam Betts</a>, based on the CS3 packaging (for OSX).\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-25 14:11:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">clean \r\n\r\nThe colored squares aren't clean, as they have gradients slapped
    on them. The Susan Kare icons look complete in themselves. But to me--and Vince
    and others--these don't. "
  created: '2007-04-25 15:21:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"But to me\u2014and Vince and others\u2014these don\u2019t.\"\r\n\r\nThen
    you can get the 3rd party Skins to either clean out those pesky gradients for
    a truly antiseptic look, or add all the bells and whistles from soup to nuts--even
    butterflies and flowers. :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-25 15:31:21'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: 'I got your back, Chris. These icons are totally awesome. I vote for clean,
    clear, understandable, and recognizable. '
  created: '2007-04-25 15:33:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I vote for clean, clear, understandable, and recognizable.\r\n\r\nDan, I
    said the design has a lot of virtues, and these are included. But 'totally awesome'?
    No doubt there is a lot of subjectivity in this, but it seems a lot of us don't
    feel it gets to the 'awesome' level. \r\n\r\nAnd among those, some are already
    supplying new 3rd party icons. Did this happen before with the earlier icons?
    \ "
  created: '2007-04-25 16:08:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Functional now for what used to be useless last year, is truly awesome to
    me. It is like last year I was blind and now, after a cornea transplant, I can
    SEE again but the colors are less saturated. \"I see,\" said the blind man, as
    he picked up his hammer and saw.\r\n\r\nIcons, above all, need to function. It
    is not unlike glyph readability. There is a place for decorative display faces,
    even grunge or graffiti faces, but in a situation where being able to read is
    key, a plain text font fits the Bill better.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-25 16:21:06'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Are these localized? Interesting to see the Greek and Russian versions.
  created: '2007-04-25 16:25:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "And the Chinese version?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-25 16:28:57'
- author:
    name: huckw
  body: "\"...I don\u2019t know who was smart enough to make the decision to go that
    way, but buy them a beer for me!\"\r\n\r\nYou can thank MetaDesign, San Francisco
    for the icon strategy."
  created: '2007-04-25 17:32:41'
- author:
    name: ocular
    picture: 111044
  body: "\"The colored squares aren\u2019t clean, as they have gradients slapped on
    them.\"\r\n\r\nI'd say: lose the gradients! That would be closer to real simplicity.
    I'm basically with Elena.\r\n\r\nOlli"
  created: '2007-04-25 18:26:36'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: Why is InDesign Caps&SmallCaps when the other two U&lc? Am I missing something??
  created: '2007-04-25 19:05:58'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "U/lc signify two words\r\nU/sc signify one word"
  created: '2007-04-25 19:17:59'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: I assume the A in Ai is for Adobe. Why isn't there an A with InDesign or Photoshop?
    (okay, now I'm just being a jerk)
  created: '2007-04-25 19:23:10'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Good question. They could've used IL ...
  created: '2007-04-25 19:28:31'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Perhaps they went with SC when the word was in the form of a single hump camel?
  created: '2007-04-25 19:32:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Illustrator has been known as Ai for years including the file extension on
    the Mac platform.  I don't know how many times I have said or heard the words,
    \"Send me the Ai files\"\r\n\r\n\"IL\" would be a totally new thing and require
    more relearning. I think they did it right.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-25 19:34:07'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: 'Plus Ps and IN are also their respective file extensions minus the D for
    document. '
  created: '2007-04-25 19:37:48'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "<em>Perhaps they went with SC when the word was in the form of a single hump
    camel?</em>\r\n\r\nhahahahahahahahaha LOL\r\n\r\nThe point I'm trying to make
    in a roundabout way is that I agree that Adobe's icon project feels unfinished
    and could have been better though out. I like Adobe very much, have used their
    products for about a billion years, and don't mean to disparage them. But they
    recognized an opportunity for consistency and made only a half-hearted stab at
    it, IMHO. Though I agree with everything in Chris' original post, and I applaud
    this new approach, I feel it could have been taken further.\r\n\r\nThe \"extensions\"
    argument doesn't work with me. My Illustrator files (and I don't call them Ai
    files) are usually .eps extensions, and my Photoshop files are usually .tif extensions.
    My .ind extensions are lowercase, not small caps."
  created: '2007-04-25 20:05:39'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Without googling, boy I'm lazy, does anyone have a link to something from
    the horse's mouth, MetaDesign, in regards to this?
  created: '2007-04-25 20:20:42'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "<cite>The \u201Cextensions\u201D argument doesn\u2019t work with me. My Illustrator
    files (and I don\u2019t call them Ai files) are usually .eps extensions, and my
    Photoshop files are usually .tif extensions. My .ind extensions are lowercase,
    not small caps.</cite>\r\n\r\nNative File extensions Ken, and you're just being
    a jerk now. "
  created: '2007-04-25 20:35:25'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: 'Okay, that wasn''t very nice of me to say. I don''t have a "real" explanation
    of why they did them the way they did. Unless someone really cares enough to contact
    MetaDesign and ask, we''ll probably never know. '
  children:
  - author:
      name: huckw
    body: "MetaDesign's strategy for the system was born of the idea of mnemonics.
      Due to the acquisition of Macromedia by Adobe their product portfolio went from
      roughly seven products to around sixteen. A system similar to the periodic table
      was proposed. The characters chosen to represent the product are for memorability
      purposes; sometimes this leverages the already familiar.\r\n\r\nI should note,
      Meta proposed this strategy along with  an entire brand evolution (having been
      the agency responsible for the design of CS1 and CS2 packaging and icons), they
      were not responsible for the execution of anything CS3."
    created: '2007-04-25 21:30:37'
  created: '2007-04-25 20:41:21'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "Maybe I haven't stated emphaticly enough that I like this new icon system.
    I like the gradation. I like the colors. I like the typeface. And, as with Chris,
    I remember Miquel posting a diagram of the entire family (but can't seem to find
    it now) which was very yummy.\r\n\r\nThe periodic table, which this icon system
    uses for inspiration, doesn't use Small Caps. I don't know how many camelbacked
    words Adobe uses for its sixteen products, or why they felt a need to use Small
    Caps to indicate camelback words. I'm only saying that in a row of three icons
    (Ai, IN, Ps) the Small Cap N looks out of place.\r\n\r\nMaybe Miquel can offer
    some insight.??\r\n\r\n\r\nCheers, Ken"
  created: '2007-04-25 22:36:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Small Cap N looks out of place\r\n\r\nOf course this is so perfectly executed
    in logic and design that there is no possibility of confusion. Except that it's
    a small cap D :)  "
  created: '2007-04-25 22:49:11'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "Thanks William for catching my mistake.\r\n\r\nAnd apologies to Miguel for
    misspelling his name."
  created: '2007-04-25 22:57:32'
- author:
    name: AndrewSipe
    picture: 109430
  body: "Actually, from the chart, there's quite a few that used smallcaps. And I
    think Tiffany was right, the small caps are used when the program is devised from
    2 words like FireWorks or InDesign and lowercase is used if it's a single word
    like Photoshop or Audition.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/3adobeapps_4033.jpg]\r\n<a
    href=\"http://blogs.adobe.com/jnack/images/wheel-o'-icons.html\">click for larger
    image</a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-25 23:01:27'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Well then Ai makes no sense. But I don't care as long as I know what program
    I'm reaching for. I'm not going to have more than 3 or 4 of these on my dock anyway.\r\n\r\nI'm
    all for clarity. Tired of opening InDesign when I want Photoshop. Not to mention
    the grey stretch on my dock which contains the calculator, Disk Utility, Stuffit,
    Preferences. Gotta break that up somehow...\r\n\r\nI also keep my dock icons very
    very small, so these will read perfectly."
  created: '2007-04-25 23:16:25'
- author:
    name: James Gareth
    picture: 110251
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/plp_5461.jpg]\r\n\r\nI like the Adam
    Betts redesigned icon set (shown here in my dock). It keeps the the periodic theme
    and colors but adds a little more excitement to what is IMHO too plain an icon
    set. Also, the original icons add too much weight to the dock especially with
    the square edges. They were way too conspicuous and out of place in my dock. I
    think Adobe should have at least rounded the edges of the icons with a small radius.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-26 02:40:48'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">No doubt there is a lot of subjectivity in this, \r\n>but it seems a lot
    of us don\u2019t feel it gets to the \u2018awesome\u2019 level.\r\n\r\nYou bet,
    William. This is subjective. But I can objectively say that I find these icons
    to be quite awesome. My undestanding of awesome-ness is not a democracy. I do
    not care if some people don't feel that these get to that level. I deem them awesome."
  created: '2007-04-26 08:49:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I do not care if some people don\u2019t feel that these get to that level.\r\n\r\nI
    think it is reasonable to expect a diversity of opinion on every issue, especially
    where art and design are concerned. I see such differences as opportunity to learn
    from others, which is one reason I enjoy Typophile so much. \r\n"
  created: '2007-04-26 14:01:54'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Adobe CS2 applications crash at least once everyday on an mactel machine
    I'm working on. Who knows how long will it be before we get CS3 for stability.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2007-04-26 21:22:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "H\xE9ctor,\r\n\r\nI have only used CS3 this week but so far, no crashes!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-26 23:26:26'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "After a careful study of the comments in this thread I have made a set of
    icons that should, without a doubt, please everybody and put an end to this ridiculous
    debate ;^P\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AdobeAppIcons01_6534.jpg]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-27 18:18:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"If ya can't please everone, then ya' oughta'  please yourself.\" \r\nRick
    Nelson, Garden Party\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-27 19:07:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nice job, Jon!\r\n\r\nFuller version, from the official web site: \r\n\r\n\"But
    it's all right now, I learned my lesson well.\r\nYou see, ya can't please everyone,
    so ya got to please yourself.\""
  created: '2007-04-27 19:31:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I knew my memory wasn't good enough and I knew Bill would find the link :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-27 20:05:08'
- author:
    name: Stephen Lording
    picture: 109670
  body: Jon, they're great! Although, I think the Ps icon looks more like a slide
    than a photo. :)
  created: '2007-04-28 00:30:45'
- author:
    name: adr
    picture: 111982
  body: "Those who really like two-letter abbreviations might be better served by
    LaunchBar or Quicksilver. If you seek the certainty of language, why mess about
    with abbreviations squeezed onto little squares? \r\n\r\nWant to open Photoshop?
    \r\nTrigger Launchbar, then type \"PS\" - and weigh, hay, up she rises.\r\nOr
    type \"Photoshop.\"\r\nOr key in \"Adobe Phot.\"\r\n\r\nIn the early days of the
    Mac, icon designers adhered to the notion that icons ought to be, you know, <em>iconic</em>
    - that their form should reflect the thing that they signified.    Not so, these
    new linguistic squares.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-28 07:35:11'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Thanks William and Stephen.\r\n\r\nI began making them just as a joke for
    this thread and an excuse to push some pixels. God, how I love pixels, and miss
    DPaint3 on my old Amiga 1200 :(\r\n\r\nStephen, you're right, the Ps icon was
    intended to be a photographic slide which I now think was a crap choice. Here's
    an updated set...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AdobeAppIcons01b_4449.jpg]\r\n\r\nIf
    anyone feels like turning them into a working icon set then that would be groovy.
    Just let me know first. And send me a copy :)\r\n\r\nI will make them available
    under a 'Send Me A Plane Ticket To Australia License Agreement' ;)\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-28 17:51:19'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: Shouldn't the Flash icon look more like a guy in a raincoat? ;)
  created: '2007-04-28 20:58:52'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "I can't stop fiddling with these bloody icons. Last version. Promise.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AdobeProgIcons01c_4768.jpg]\r\n\r\nBut
    following Archaica's suggestion here's a Flasher icon for web creatives of dubious
    moral fibre...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AdobeFlasherIcon_5761.jpg]\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-28 22:13:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"here\u2019s a Flasher icon for web creatives of dubious moral fibre\u2026\"\r\n\r\nThat
    is revealing but, after all, it is a show-and-tell profession :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-28 22:23:57'
- author:
    name: smarks
    picture: 109688
  body: "<em>That is revealing but, after all, it is a show-and-tell profession :-)</em>\r\n\r\nChris,
    that was a rather trenchcoat-- I mean, trenchant comment.\r\n\r\ns'marks\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-28 23:12:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Well, it might be that I typed in on a Macintosh :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-29 00:55:32'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AdobeCS3Icons01d_5432.jpg]\r\n\r\nI lied
    about the last version being the last. But it's because I have a pixel addiction.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-30 15:42:57'
date: '2007-04-23 16:46:38'
node_type: forum
title: Thanks to CS3, I can now KNOW one icon from the next! Thanks Adobe!

---
