---
author:
  name: Nick Shinn
  picture: 110193
body: An edgy design by David Pratt with sans heads and rag right text throughout,
  and custom display and text faces by myself.
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: No samples?
  created: '2007-04-23 18:54:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Best seen in print :-)\r\n\r\nActually, I had expected their front page to
    be in PDF at Newseum as usual, but not today."
  created: '2007-04-23 19:16:43'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: '<a href=http://newsdesigner.com/blog/>NewsDesigner</a> has some images from
    the redesign (and in the text of the blog entry, it links to some samples of Nick''s
    three new typefaces). I have to agree with Nick: it''s a really smart, contemporary
    design. The front page is very well organized, and those odd, thick horizontal
    rules actually unify the headlines and articles beautifully. But I''ll never understand
    the reasoning behind the huge amount of white space between the headlines and
    text (a la The Guardian).'
  created: '2007-04-23 19:17:55'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "The smaller page size is interesting, and I'm glad it's now being set ragged
    right, although there is still some really awkward hyphenation (<em>previ-ous</em>,
    for example).\r\n\r\nFits better into our recycling box as well....  ;-)"
  created: '2007-04-23 19:26:19'
- author:
    name: dmajor
    picture: 111920
  body: I had a quite a surprise this morning when the Globe arrived---I hadn't known
    about the redesign. I'm not sure about the addition of the "Life" section, but
    the design throughout is gorgeous; I'm loving the ragged right and the magnificent
    sans headlines. The first thing I did was try and find out who designed the type...now
    I've 'heard the news'. Congratulations, you've made mornings better across the
    country with these fresh faces. I like the new page size too.
  children:
  - author:
      name: fnf
    body: "Overall, an excellent re-design -- my preferred newspaper just got easier
      on the eyes.\r\n\r\nI love the look of Globe & Mail Sans Thin..."
    created: '2007-04-23 19:40:44'
  created: '2007-04-23 19:29:37'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Nick, I read the teaser last night and had a hunch it was you who did the
    type. Glad to discover it is indeed. The new faces are daringly modern for a newspaper
    (the stemless glyphs in the Sans, the tails in the News). It's good to see a large
    paper take the plunge. How did News Designer get the samples of your fonts?
  created: '2007-04-23 19:57:32'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: I love the Globe, too bad it's not a common paper up here in the north. It's
    the best thing to read while flying IMO.
  created: '2007-04-23 20:14:13'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Congradulations Nick!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-23 20:26:45'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "That\u2019s one gorgeous newspaper design. I especially love the massive
    horizontal rules\u2014Pratt was courageous to try it, and the risk paid off. I
    agree with Nick about the whitespace; the hanging tagline makes a distracting
    little shape in there. Perhaps Pratt feels that there\u2019s something about the
    gap that draws attention in a crowded row of newspaper boxes."
  created: '2007-04-23 20:30:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>How did News Designer get the samples of your fonts?</em>\r\n\r\nSomeone
    at the Globe must have provided them with a pdf of page A3, which discusses the
    redesign and shows the fonts -- there's a link to that pdf at News Designer, so
    you can inspect the fonts up close in that.\r\n\r\nThe premise of two matched
    sans faces is that one is busy, with \"some serifs\", for use in straight news
    where the type must carry a lot of the interest, and the other is pared down,
    for use in feature sections where there is more design space for the art directors
    and a more reticent face will work better. That distinction emerged during the
    design process. For precedents, think Tarzana vs Futura, although David Pratt
    first drew my attention to two \"colours\" of the same face in Lisboa (not quite
    the same idea as the Thesis variants?). He wanted a lot of tools (or toys) in
    the box, but wanted to avoid the typical serif vs. sans play, to give it a contemporary
    sans-y look. So the contrast is sans vs. sans, as when there is a \"GM News\"
    head and \"GM Sans\" sidebar text. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-23 20:51:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Congratulations, Nick! \r\n\r\nWow, massive undertaking--how big a window
    of time did you have? "
  created: '2007-04-23 21:24:14'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "That's fresh looking. Good work Nick.\r\n\r\nJust a shame about the nameplate.
    The 'THE' and the 'AND' in capitals are too prominent for me. And that maple leaf
    tagged on the end is a bit lame.\r\n\r\nI'm not keen on those 'floating in space'
    subheadings either.\r\n\r\nThe subheadings appear to be missing final full stops
    which seems odd if there are already full stops in the same line. Maybe that's
    the norm in newspaperland. I can't remember the last time I read one \u2021^B\r\n\r\nSorry.
    I ended up being a rather picky. But it is just pickyness. The fonts work a treat.\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-23 21:30:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Thanks Bill. Four months, so it was a bit of a slog. But I know a few tricks.
  created: '2007-04-23 21:33:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I love the Globe, too bad it\u2019s not a common paper up here in the north.
    It\u2019s the best thing to read while flying IMO.\r\n\r\nI know Air Canada has
    financial issues, but surely they still provide toilet paper? ;-)"
  created: '2007-04-23 22:37:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I know Air Canada has financial issues, but surely they still provide
    toilet paper? ;-)</cite>\r\n\r\nHarper took it all away to toughen Canadians up
    for the coming war over the Northwest Passage."
  created: '2007-04-23 23:09:38'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Congratulations Nick!\r\n\r\nYou've drawn really nice typeface. All of them!"
  created: '2007-04-23 23:29:31'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "<em>I know Air Canada has financial issues, but surely they still provide
    toilet paper? ;-)\r\n\r\nHarper took it all away to toughen Canadians up for the
    coming war over the Northwest Passage.\r\n</em>\r\n\r\nLOL @ both. Surely everyone
    knows to avoid Air Canada at all costs (which is usually a lesser one in the west.)\r\n_\r\n\r\nBack
    on track though, I saw yesterdays paper today and I quite like it. I only glanced,
    but the fonts are lovely, as is the new design is nice. I'm glad going right ragged
    isn't considered a bad idea anymore in newspapers \u2013 full justification is
    a nightmare when people don't care about how it looks."
  created: '2007-04-24 20:48:34'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Very, very nice indeed, Nick. Congrats.\r\nI love both the sans faces especially.\r\n\r\nI
    don't know the paper, but on the design; I have no problems with either the large
    amount of white space between the headers and the text, or the subheadings. I
    like it when newspapers show some paper through. There are a couple of newspapers
    here that totally cram everything close together, and it looks horrible. I never
    read those. But do read the ones that show more white (which also happen to use
    Unger type ;))."
  created: '2007-04-24 23:34:51'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: Truly awesome Nick. Always tricky I thought, ragged right in narrow text columns,
    but it works, somehow or other. Four months!!!!! The pdf from NewsDesigner shows
    the fonts and scheme very clearly. Congratulations. Can't get over the 4 months.
  created: '2007-04-25 13:31:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick,\r\nI am missing out on all the fun! Where can one of those non-Canadian
    souls from south of the border gat a peek at the paper? Is there a PDF available
    yet? or a scan you can post?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-25 14:37:43'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: I can mail you the contents of our recycling bin, Chris....  ;-)
  created: '2007-04-25 15:57:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I can mail you the contents of our recycling bin,\"\r\n\r\nBefore or after
    it has been under your birds cage? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-25 16:00:20'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Before -- it's cheaper that way....  ;-)
  created: '2007-04-25 16:02:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Cheaper but but not deeper (and less fertile).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-25 16:06:32'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: ROFL!  Why don't you just pop across the Mall to the embassy and see if they've
    got a copy?  They used to get the Mop and Pail next day when I lived there....
  created: '2007-04-25 16:11:06'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "Yes... more paper space and harder horizontals makes a really natural and
    easy framework.  Not unlike the Chicago Reader redesign.\r\n\r\nThe half page
    guide is horribly set though!  Such a heavy face to read!  The News Italic is
    rather friendly.  I wouldn't want to read any bad news with it dancing at me.
    \ I'd pick up a USA Today if I wanted such a cheerful delivery.\r\n\r\nThe Text
    faces are fantastic, Nick.  Why so many weights of the Sans and News while only
    two of the Text?  I could easily see a Text Light in the same value as the News
    and Sans counterparts.  Are they actually using all of the weights in the toolbox?\r\n\r\nThe
    big question... will they go retail?\r\n\r\nbtw: I always enjoy seeing your Chicago
    Trib contribution."
  created: '2007-04-25 16:46:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks Silas. The emphasis is on the sans faces, restricting the serif face
    just to text, hence the more weights of the sans. From a font production point
    of view, there are many efficiencies in producing multi-weight families through
    interpolation. There is actually a display version of the serif face, which is
    used sparingly, and not mentioned in the guide. \r\n\r\nYes, they will be using
    all the weights, as they have a lot of different sections throughout the week,
    so the Thin will appear in Fashion, of course.\r\n\r\nAbout the \"cheerful delivery\".
    There's certainly a fair bit of personality and calligraphic action in the GM
    News version of the sans, those qualities were developed to make it the humanist
    contrast with the stripped-down, more geometric GM Sans sans. With smooth execution,
    that may come across as cheerful, but I would hope it's more like \"pleasant\",
    as a newscaster might be considered, even when delivering bad news. \r\n\r\nIt
    could be compared to other ductus-informed news faces such as Luc De Groot's Corpid,
    used in the Metro papers, which has some cute qualities too, such as the bendy-stemmed
    v's and w's, and the semi-serifed i, which don't seem to hurt it.\r\n\r\nUltimately,
    the humanist liveliness of the GM Sans was a direction of my design brief, stipulated,
    I would assume, as a necessary foil for the gridularity of the layout, all rectangles
    and rules, and the dry tone of the Globe and Mail's headline copy. So I think
    that on a daily reading basis, when readers have developed a familiarity with
    the paper as a whole, that bit of warmth won't stand out, but will be a comfortable
    part of the reading experience.\r\n\r\nYes, the fonts will go retail after a year's
    exclusitivity, which may just give me time to develop CE characters and the OpenType
    features.  "
  created: '2007-04-25 17:38:54'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: Sorry to be late to the party, but congrats Nick on another brilliant set
    of fonts. Are your Richler fonts ever to become commercially available?
  created: '2007-04-25 19:11:00'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "Nick: I agree that any redesign takes a bit of warming up to, especially
    when its as progressive as what we have here.  I say we need more of this sort
    of work too -- keep the humanist wave rolling.  There's so much to explore, and
    a daily newspaper is a tremendous place to do so.  Get the public eye tuned to
    where type design is naturally heading.\r\n\r\nI don't think it will take very
    long at all for the GM's readers to cozy up though.  The layout and type direction
    are clean, sensible and purposeful.  Just gotta trust the design team to polish
    and maintain the system.\r\n\r\nOne year's exclusivity passes so quickly!  Godspeed
    with fleshing out the OTFs."
  created: '2007-04-25 20:57:52'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I thought I'd replied to this!\r\n\r\nNick, really great work. Your typefaces
    really do go a long way in making this redesign strong. Nice work!"
  created: '2007-04-25 21:09:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Without wishing to diminish what Nick has achieved -- in only four months
    --, I think there are some problems with the new text face. Maybe the eastern
    edition of the newspaper is better printed than the western edition, but when
    I picked up a copy yesterday I really didn't think the quality of the printing
    was good enough for the kind of subtleties Nick has included in the design, and
    which look so nice in the PDF. Arguably, this is a problem with the printing and
    not with the typeface, but surely the design of a typeface for a particular newspaper
    should take the production standard of that paper into account. I actually found
    the new text face quite hard to read, and while I like the idea of the ragged-right
    setting very much, the columns are too narrow. The column width in the old design
    on the larger page was much better, especially considering that lines in the new
    columns are made narrower-still by being ragged-right. I find it a very fragmentary
    reading experience.\r\n\r\nThe top of the lowercase s is very cramped, and this
    catches my eye more than any other letter. I want to grab that droopy terminal
    and pull it up a bit. Given that the usual aim in 9pt text type is to make very
    open counters, and Nick has done this elsewhere in the design, I find the s very
    out-of-character and distracting.\r\n\r\nOverall, the new design is a lot more
    interesting than the majority of north American newspapers, but I'm not convinced
    it actually works very well. Compared to the Guardian redesign of a couple of
    years ago, the new Globe and Mail seems quite crude. Of course, the production
    standards of the Guardian, like those of most European newspapers, are very much
    higher and the type very much crisper on the page."
  created: '2007-04-25 21:14:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>surely the design of a typeface for a particular newspaper should take
    the production standard of that paper into account.</em>\r\n\r\nOf course, and
    these types were press tested during development. Not having seen the issue you
    refer to, I can't say what your problem is. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sasnse_5697.png]\r\n\r\nWith
    regards to the \"s\", what you're probably noticing is that its lower counter
    is more open than the top -- but I designed the glyphs not so much for individual
    poise, rather for how they ineract with other glyphs, and IMO if that consideration
    is met, then having a bit of attitude in the individual glyph is a benefit.\r\n\r\n<em>quite
    crude.</em>\r\n\r\nYou must be kidding. The templates are complex and extremely
    precise, they have to be, with all those line rules. But yes, The Guardian does
    have slightly better printing. However, it too had some production issues at immediate
    launch, which is par for the course for newspapers. Fortunately, unlike, say,
    a brochure, there's the opportunity to refine things through successive issues.\r\n\r\nJust
    pulled out a copy of that Guardian first issue, 12/09/05, and compared it to Monday's
    Globe and Mail -- its paper is still brighter and black inker darker than Monday's
    Globe and Mail. We must be using too much recycled content :-)"
  created: '2007-04-25 22:09:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Fortunately, unlike, say, a brochure, there\u2019s the opportunity to
    refine things through successive issues.</em>\r\n\r\nIndeed. Maybe I got a dud
    copy on the first day. It's looked better since then, although I still don't think
    the printing does the type design many favours.\r\n\r\nThe thing with the lowercase
    s is that I really don't think it does interact well with the other glyphs: I
    think it stands out, and the main reason for this is that the heavy top terminal
    sags and gives the whole letter a pronounced downward slope. I also think it is
    too narrow, and this exacerbates the problem by making the internal curves very
    tight compared to letters like c and e. [By the way, a good trick to getting the
    width of the s to harmonise well is to design a Cyrillic at the same time as the
    Latin: if you design the s with an eye on the Latin a and the Cyrillic \u0432
    it is possible to triangulate the width.]\r\n\r\nRegarding the layout of the new
    design, after a couple of days I still think the columns are painfully narrow
    and a very unpleasant reading experience. When they adopted the smaller page size
    they should have gone to a 5-column layout. I wouldn't be surprised to find that
    the new Globe and Mail wins some sort of prize for the narrowest column measure
    in a national newspaper. When I said it was crude, I wasn't questioning the complexity
    and precision of the templates. I meant maintaining the same editorial structure
    based around a six-column layout was crude compared to what we saw when various
    UK newspapers adopted a smaller format and revised not only the appearence of
    the paper but the way in which news was structured. [Mark Barratt gave a very
    interesting presentation on this at ATypI Prague. The most fascinating case was
    the Times, which maintain a broadsheet and tabloid format side-by-side for some
    time, so one could compare the ways in which the same stories and images were
    packaged.]"
  created: '2007-04-27 04:20:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/resaspt_3740.jpg]\r\nJohn, humanist faces
    are characterized by a variance in character width and angled stress. Compare
    GM Text with Garamond and Times (or Manticore)--and of course the venerable news
    face Plantin-- and note that they all have a narrow s. \r\n\r\nIn the GM Text
    s, the top aperture is plenty open enough, as you can see in comparison to the
    other faces here.\r\n\r\nGM text replaces Utopia, which had served the G&M well,
    but David Pratt wanted something with a bit more attitude, on a par with the liveliness
    of the GM News face, and to contrast with the reserve of GM Sans. So I gave the
    face wedge-shaped terminals and an angularity that animates the top of the x-height,
    with some of the \"cut\" I admire in Nimrod and Palatino.\r\n\r\n<em>maintaining
    the same editorial structure</em>\r\n\r\nBut it's not the same! They have integrated
    web and print (physically, too, in the newsroom), and the new editorial structure
    grew out of that. The six columns gives them the flexibility to break down stories
    into multiple graphic treatments -- sidebars, charts, pull quotes, infographics,
    \"links\" etc., -- which seems to be where news presentation is heading, like
    it or not. Having six columns gives a little more scope for this than five. In
    fact, when there's only five coulmns in a paper, and, as can happen, there's not
    much going on in a page, it can look really dull and more like a newsletter than
    a paper. \r\n"
  created: '2007-04-27 06:51:40'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Nick, you like to dip your 'a' tails way below the baseline. Here and in <a
    href="http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/shinntype/nicholas_regular/&sample_text=%EF%AC%82animals&sample_size=96">Nicholas</a>.  Can
    you tell me more about that decision?
  created: '2007-04-27 07:19:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Here, because the a's right stem doesn't curve out at the bottom, I felt
    a demonstrative serif was appropriate, or else it would be too weak an ending
    -- so its relationship to the baseline is a rotation of the relationship of the
    serif on top of \"p\" etc. to the median line across the top of u, v, and the
    crossbar on f and t.\r\nIn Nicholas/Goodchild, I followed Jenson faithfully."
  created: '2007-04-27 07:51:04'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Perhaps Nicholas and Goodchild are just jarring to my 21st century eyes, accustomed
    to the other typefaces you illustrate above.
  created: '2007-04-27 08:24:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: There's always a place for funky, calligraphically-informed faces such as
    Palatino and Maiola.
  created: '2007-04-27 08:35:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thanks for posting the image, Nick, it demonstrates my complaint very well.
    The proportions of the s in Utopia and Nimrod are far better suited to newspaper
    type than the narrower forms in the other types. [Despite it's origins, it should
    be remembered that Times, as James Mosley observed, had a much more successful
    career as a book face than as a newspaper face.] The width of the GM Text s relative
    to the other letters is closest to the proportions of Garamond: a model I consider
    very inappropriate for a newspaper type. Further, in the examples shown, only
    GM Text exhibits the drooping top terminal which gives the letter a thrust to
    the lower right, contrary to the dynamics of all the other letters. In all the
    other types, the top of the s is designed to optically lift slightly, precisely
    to avoid this problem. In the narrow Garamond s this feature is particularly strong
    im order to keep the narrow letter open.\r\n\r\nThe other thing that Utopia and
    Nimrod have in common is a very good evenness of colour, while GM Text has much
    greater variety in terminal and stroke weight. This does indeed make GM Text funkier,
    but it is this feature of the design that I don't think fares well in the print
    quality of the newspaper. If the basic colour of the text is even, then ink gain
    or loss will still result in an even colour. If the base colour is uneven, then
    variation in pressure and ink coverage in particular can exagerate certain features
    of letters (to the point where the heavy upper terminal of the s almost merges
    into the middle stroke as I saw in one ink-heavy place today). This kind of variation
    is impossible to avoid in newspaper printing, in which even different areas of
    the same page can be subject to ink gain or loss due to the density of nearby
    images. [This is a feature of newspaper production that the Poynter types brilliantly
    address, providing variant designs for use in closer or further proximity to photographs.]\r\n\r\nRegarding
    the column width, if they were dedicated to six columns, why did they go to a
    narrower page size? and why did they decide to force the actual line length to
    be even narrower by sticking entirely unnecessary rule lines between columns and
    using ragged right. The average line length in a random story I examined today
    was only 4-5 words long. We know quite a lot from eye movement studies about what
    a reader does at the end and beginning of a line, and in very narrow measures
    the cues to shift to the next line are happening almost as soon as we start a
    line. Simply put, the columns are too narrow to be read properly, and what happens
    is vertical skimming. I find myself doing this all the time in the new Globe and
    Mail.\r\n\r\n<em>In fact, when there\u2019s only five coulmns in a paper, and,
    as can happen, there\u2019s not much going on in a page, it can look really dull
    and more like a newsletter than a paper.</em>\r\n\r\nI think this captures very
    well the apparent concerns of the redesign: to make the newspaper <em>look</em>
    interesting. In that I suppose it succeeds, but the only page I <em>read</em>
    with any pleasure or ease today was the Comment and Letters page, which has a
    five column layout. It does indeed look dull compared to many other pages, but
    it's friggin' readable!\r\n\r\nOh well, the National Post is a more entertaining
    read anyway: I'd rather be outraged and offended by the content than by the difficulty
    of reading it. :)"
  created: '2007-04-28 05:22:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>a model I consider very inappropriate for a newspaper type</em>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/displayed_6598.jpg]\r\n\r\nJohn,
    there is nothing inherently wrong with the form of the humanist/old style of type
    for news text. Plantin (shown at top) was for many years a succesful news face,
    and although it has fallen from favour, the old Dutch style that it represents
    was the driving idea behind Poynter OS.\r\n\r\n<em>drooping top terminal which
    gives the letter a thrust to the lower right, contrary to the dynamics of all
    the other letters.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's not about dynamics, by which I presume you
    mean direction, but shape. The shape of the GM Text s's top terminal is mirrored/flipped
    in the top stem of the p, and in the top terminal of the a, etc. -- so there is
    harmony (repetition) of form there, as well as contrast (mirroring). \r\n\r\n<em>If
    the base colour is uneven, then variation in pressure and ink coverage in particular
    can exagerate certain features of letters</em>\r\n\r\nThis is incorrect. The \"uneven\"
    quality of GM Text, i.e. its pronounced contrast of thick and thin strokes, is
    designed in anticipation of the substantial press gain that occurs in newsprint,
    which fattens everything, significantly reducing contrast, toning down features
    not, as you state, exaggerating them. This is because the same absolute amount
    of gain has a far greater effect on the relative width of a fine stroke than it
    does on a thick one. Note the bottom sample. It is precisely because of gain,
    and the \"grey on grey\" of news ink on news paper, that an initially dramatic
    letterform is desirable.\r\n\r\n<em>We know quite a lot from eye movement studies</em>\r\n\r\n...which
    can be used to back up just about any theory one may wish to advance as to what
    is most readable.\r\n\r\n<em>the only page I read with any pleasure</em>\r\n\r\nDesigners
    and typographers react differently to text than ordinary readers. If there is
    something in the layout or typography which contradicts their preference or theories
    about what is ideal, they find it distracting in a way that the intended reader
    doesn't. Which is why a progressive design will get flak from the pros. \r\n\r\nThe
    Globe and Mail redesign was, of course, done with numerous focus groups, and response
    was remarkably positive. Of course, as with all redesigns, there will be some
    lost readers, but most will stick with it and adapt, and there will be new readers
    attracted. This is a consistent finding in news publishing: print readership is
    in slow decline, but redesigns provide a spike.\r\n\r\nAs Macleans columnist Paul
    Wells commented recently on his blog, \r\n\r\n\"my overwhelming response is a
    cranky old reader's clich\xE9 that redesign editors everywhere have come to wearily
    expect: I can't read the damned thing.\r\nWe were told the same thing when Ken
    Whyte shook up Maclean's, yet circulation has held steady, fully paid-up circulation
    is rising, and newsstand sales are galloping along.\"\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-28 08:05:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sorry, on further investigation News Plantin wasn't as widely used as I had
    assumed.\r\nOther than Times, Olympian, by Matthew Carter, is an old style news
    face, and his Charter, more recently popular as a news face, has a narrow s. Anyway,
    whatever the precedents may be, I have no reservations about that s."
  created: '2007-04-28 09:04:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, when I talked about uneven colour I was not refering to the contrast
    between thick and thin strokes, which I expect and which we all know how to manipulate
    to produce an overall even texture. I was talking about the difference in weight
    between thick stroke and thick strokes, which is exagerated by ink gain as clearly
    shown in the photograph you posted: the straight ascending strokes are all markedly
    heavier than other features.\r\n\r\nYou quote Paul Wells saying 'We were told
    the same thing when Ken Whyte shook up Maclean\u2019s, yet circulation has held
    steady, fully paid-up circulation is rising, and newsstand sales are galloping
    along.' What that doesn't acknowledge, and probably Mr Wells and most other people
    are unaware of it, is that the Macleans type was revised after the initial launch
    of the redesign precisely to address the complaints that had been raised by readers.\r\n\r\n<em>Designers
    and typographers react differently to text than ordinary readers. If there is
    something in the layout or typography which contradicts their preference or theories
    about what is ideal, they find it distracting in a way that the intended reader
    doesn\u2019t. Which is why a progressive design will get flak from the pros.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    guess there is nothing more to be said on the topic, since you have just a priori
    dismissed any criticism I may make. I thought I was thinking critically, but apparently
    I was just reacting against progress in favour of my preferences and pet theories.
    Silly me."
  created: '2007-04-28 21:32:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the difference in weight between thick stroke and thick strokes, which
    is exagerated by ink gain as clearly shown in the photograph you posted: the straight
    ascending strokes are all markedly heavier than other features.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    don't see that at all, and as I said, it's not what happens. Ink gain swells all
    strokes by the same absolute amount, not by a percentage. Therefore it diminishes
    contrast, not exaggerates.\r\n\r\n<em>you have just a priori dismissed any criticism
    I may make.</em>\r\n\r\nNot at all, but you must choose your ground. You can't
    claim to be \"a reader\" who claims it's friggin' impossible to read, and at the
    same time make disspassionate statements about readability based on typographic
    knowhow. That's a conflict of interest."
  created: '2007-04-28 23:10:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Let's forget about the Globe and Mail for a bit (although I'll later have
    some further, illustrated comments about the problems of the narrow column width),
    because I think your most recent comments have raised a more interesting if troublesome
    topic: how can we be critical of design, and specifically typographic design?\r\n\r\nIn
    one message you dismissed both the relevance of the findings of the scientific
    study of reading, on the grounds that they 'can be used to back up just about
    any theory one may wish to advance', and dismissed the criticisms of designers
    and typographers -- the 'pros' -- as being reactionary against a 'progressive'
    design. Of course, this makes the claim that the design in question is progressive
    an unchallengeable presumption. The other adjectives that have been used are the
    equally vague 'edgy' and 'funky'. 'Humanist' is used as a synonym for arbitrary
    and inconsistent. Overall, this form of dismissal of criticism -- not just of
    my particular criticisms, but of the possibility of criticism: especially and
    ironically criticism by typographic professionals -- gives carte blanche to any
    arbitrary decision in design which can be justified by appeals to edginess, funkiness
    or progressiveness.\r\n\r\nI've known you long enough, Nick, to know that you're
    a thoughtful designer, so I'm sure you see the problems of cutting off the possibility
    of criticism in this way and the subsequent reduction of critical opinion to personal
    preference. But it does raise interesting questions about how we can, as typographic
    professionals, i.e. as a particular kind of reader, make critical judgements about
    type design, layout, etc. I don't think there is a 'conflict of interest' between
    being a typographer and being a reader, because the implication of such a conflict
    is that the very fact that I might know what I'm talking about disqualifies me
    from saying anything, which is insane. As far as I know, all typographers are
    also readers*, and their professional skills and experience make them <em>informed</em>
    readers; that is, they are capable not only of reading but of examining and drawing
    conclusions about the material form of text as it relates to their own experience
    of reading.\r\n\r\n* I know of one example of a type designer who was not a reader,
    i.e. he was illiterate, but so far as I know no one involved in the planning,
    setting and arrangement of text has done so without also being able to read it.\r\n_____\r\n\r\n<em>This
    is a consistent finding in news publishing: print readership is in slow decline,
    but redesigns provide a spike.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, and this is something that should
    be a red flag to any type designer and typographer, because this consistent finding
    says nothing about the quality of the redesign, only about the financial impact
    of novelty. There is an economic incentive in terms of increased circulation that
    is very attractive to publishers. I suspect that as the overall readership figures
    continue to decline we will see more and more frequent redesigns, but also less
    and less money invested in those redesigns as publishers seek that circulation
    spike at the lowest possible cost."
  created: '2007-04-28 23:52:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> the subsequent reduction of critical opinion to personal preference.</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    professional opinion, when applied to the work of a peer, can be objective, but
    how is it possible to know? This is the idea behind conflict of interest. By the
    same token, an analysis of the services of a competing colleague cannot be considered
    objective. \r\n\r\n<em> this form of dismissal of criticism ... gives carte blanche
    to any arbitrary decision in design which can be justified by appeals to edginess,
    funkiness or progressiveness.</em>\r\n\r\nJohn, the Globe and Mail redesign and
    typography were based on principles. They may not be the principles you subscribe
    to, but that doesn't make the design arbitrary. When I described the paper as
    edgy and progressive, that was a straightforward description; not a justification
    for the design, but a consequence of it. Safe, dull, and conservative was not
    the intention.\r\n\r\n<em>...this [print readership in slow decline, redesigns
    provide spike] ... is something that should be a red flag to any type designer
    and typographer, because this consistent finding says nothing about the quality
    of the redesign, only about the financial impact of novelty.</em>\r\n\r\nNot so.
    It is the high quality of newspaper redesign that boosts an otherwise declining
    medium, keeping it up to date. It is an inspiration to know that innovation (which
    John dismisses as \"novelty\") in news presentation can help maintain readership
    and the relevance of print journalism. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-29 09:46:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>When I described the paper as edgy and progressive, that was a straightforward
    description</em>\r\n\r\nI don't see how the catchwords of popular culture branding
    exercises constitute a 'straightforward description'. A straightforward description
    is saying e.g. that the page size is x number of millimetres narrower than in
    the previous design and there are an average of y.z fewer words per line, etc.
    'Edgy' and 'progressive' are judgements about the design, not descriptions of
    it.\r\n\r\nThere seems to be a lot of confusion, these days, about the difference
    between description of a thing and expression of judgements about a thing, much
    of it involving the language of marketing hype. People are so used to throwing
    these vague but positive-sounding catchwords around that critical communication
    becomes very difficult. I believe much of this confusion is deliberately manufactured
    by a marketing industry that has a vested interest in making it difficult for
    people to talk meaningfully about quality.\r\n\r\nI'm not claiming that my criticisms
    of the new Globe and Mail design are 'objective', and I don't see that they need
    to be. I'm saying that these are my criticisms and these are my reasons for them.
    I suppose I could have just said 'I don't like it very much', but that wouldn't
    be completely accurate and it wouldn't be sufficiently respectful of the work,
    which deserves some kind of analysis. So I've said what I find problematic and
    the reasons why these things seem to me problematic."
  created: '2007-05-02 04:02:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Thanks for your comments John, I'll try and be a bit more gracious in future
    and accept the brickbats along with the bouquets.
  created: '2007-05-03 04:32:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Brickbats are, in any case, more useful than bouquets, do not require water,
    and last longer. You can use them as paperweights or doorstops while waiting for
    an opportune moment to chuck them back. :)
  created: '2007-05-03 04:56:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Postscript</em>\r\n\r\nWithout wishing to stir further debate, since
    Nick and I seem to have reached a kind of accomodation, I still wanted to post
    the promised illustration of a particular problem of the narrow column width and
    ragged right setting. This is one of those situations in which if you push something
    too far in one direction, you inevitably end up having to compromise elsewhere.
    In this case, you purchase the narrow columns and the ragged right setting at
    the cost of excessive hyphenation. There's no other option, because if you reduce
    the hyphenation the stories overrun their column inches and half the ragged lines
    end up with excessively large white space on the right. Achieving a visually pleasing,
    even rag requires considerable care even on wide measures; on a narrow measure
    it can only be achieved by plentiful use of the hyphen.\r\n\r\nIronically, the
    copy introducing readers to the new design reads: <em>'We have adopted a universal
    ragged-right format so we can use large-text type in narrow columns, which reduces
    the need to hyphenate words. This makes for smoother reading.'</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    photo below was taken from a randomly selected story last week. When 60% of the
    lines are hyphenated, two in the middle of proper nouns, I don't think the 'smoother
    reading' theory is holding up too well.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GMhyphens_5380.jpg]"
  created: '2007-05-04 06:45:48'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Congratulations, Nick!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-04 07:48:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "60%?\r\n\r\nYour criticism of the format would be more meaningful if you
    calculated the percentage of hyphenated lines in the body text on 6-column pages,
    and compared it with the percentage of hyphenated lines on 5-column pages (the
    main editorial). \r\nI look forward to your numbers -- I did some quick calculations
    and came up with around 25% for both."
  created: '2007-05-04 07:51:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Thanks David.
  created: '2007-05-04 08:04:59'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: So Nick, are you involved in the Toronto Star redesign as well? I saw a notice
    in the paper that they have one coming out in a few weeks. Lopping another inch
    or so off the width of the pages again. I'm surprised that they haven't hit the
    minimum roll size for their presses yet.
  created: '2007-05-04 18:01:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "No. I was briefly involved in developing the present design, but they didn't
    go with any of my stuff. As a longstanding Star reader, I thought the present
    design didn't look enough like my \"alternative\" paper -- with its mainstream
    North American news typography. The way I heard it, ex-publisher John Honderich
    was very keen on having all-serif headlines; you can see the designers breaking
    out on the weekend when they don the sans faces, even setting body in it for some
    stories. \r\n\r\nSo it's ironic at the moment that the G&M has broken the mould,
    and I'm really looking forward to seeing how the Star responds. Really, if they
    want to position themselves to the left/ahead of the G&M, they have to go for
    sans body text. Wouldn't that be something. But maybe they have something else
    up their sleeve, I hope so, and would love to be outraged. Bring it on! -- the
    Toronto/Canada \"newspaper wars\" of c.2000 resulted in some marvellous invention.
    And now, with the broadsheets shrinking, and both Now and Eye well established,
    and Metro, Exclaim, Xtra, etc., the newsprint scene here is pretty intense."
  created: '2007-05-04 18:52:13'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Congratulations Nick. \r\n\r\nI've had my head down to the grindstone so
    severely lately I haven't even looked on my neighbours porch or in his recycle
    bin to grab a peek while picking up our Star. Even the Star's two-week-old stories
    on the Helvetica film and your Softmachine are sitting under a pile of loose ends
    for a read!\r\n\r\nAnd logging on to typophile--forget it.\r\n\r\nBut I do want
    to say, after reading this thread for the first time today: while the intensity
    in the exchange between you and John is palpable, for the observer of the excahnge
    is intensely valuable, because it brings out for consideration aspects and motivations
    which might not have become articulated otherwise.\r\n\r\nI wonder if what happened
    with the CBC Radio One programming a few years back is now happening with the
    Globe and Mail as well. While we baby-boomers are or were it's biggest demographic
    and strongest patrons in terms of tax dollars, our now-adult children became it's
    target or lusted after audience. Smart, but irritating. We become indulgant and
    nostalgic.\r\n\r\nI think it's right that 'funkier' and 'edgier' as brief must
    be seperated from those terms as foils for criticism. John, how would you have
    handled an assignment that included those terms in the brief and wanted to retain
    the considerable layout flexibility advantages of a six column grid over a five
    column grid on a narrower paper?"
  created: '2007-05-06 14:37:45'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I agree that the exchange was valuable.\r\n\r\nPeter, it's interesting that
    you have decided this might be is a generational difference. \r\n\r\nIt's nice
    to hear your perspective again."
  created: '2007-05-06 19:03:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The penalty of size:\r\n\r\nBig newspapers suffer a typographic handicap
    from the get-go.\r\nThe state of the art pagination systems that coordinate the
    activities of several hundred workstations are short on typographic finesse.\r\n(My
    anecdotal experience from dealing with newspapers of various sizes -- not an expert
    on pagination systems.)\r\n\r\nOf particular note are the lack of support for
    ligatures (even f_i and f_l), and relating to John's interest in hyphenation,
    the lack of multi-line composition. And of course, because the text is necessarily
    always live, there is no opportunity for manual tweaking.\r\n\r\nMulti-line H&J
    software would, I suspect, reduce hyphenation -- just a little thing like nixing
    partial-word widows would be a huge improvement!\r\n\r\nIt would be interesting
    to compare hyphenation percentages by:\r\n1. Rag right vs. Justified\r\n2. Single-line
    composition vs. Multi-line composition\r\n3. Characters-per-line\r\n\r\nI wonder
    if there is research on this?\r\n\r\nVariables such as the number of successive
    hyphenated lines permitted may also be a factor, as well as letterspace and wordspace
    settings. And minute changes to tracking, horizontal scaling, line length, and
    type size can also move the sweet spot significantly. We're all familiar with
    the situation where changing one letter in a paragraph will suddenly cause several
    hyphenations where none existed before. With so many variables, setting H&J specs
    becomes something of an art."
  created: '2007-05-06 19:17:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter: <em>I think it\u2019s right that \u2018funkier\u2019 and \u2018edgier\u2019
    as brief must be seperated from those terms as foils for criticism. John, how
    would you have handled an assignment that included those terms in the brief and
    wanted to retain the considerable layout flexibility advantages of a six column
    grid over a five column grid on a narrower paper?</em>\r\n\r\nI sometimes have
    clients who throw out similarly vague catchwords as part of what they want in
    a typeface design, and the only way to interpret such words is as what the client
    is hoping other people will say about the design when they see it. So its a kind
    of anticipatory marketing. For me, this kind of thing is always a problem because
    I like specific targets, so I end up either ignoring these catchwords and focusing
    on the technical goals of the project that, in the end, are what really need to
    work, or risk annoying the client by pushing them to explain what they mean.\r\n\r\nI'm
    typically quite ready to point out to clients the contraditions that are often
    inherent in their goals, and the choices that these present in terms of where
    the compromises can fall. What I don't like clients to do is to proceed in the
    belief that there won't be compromises, even if this undermines the optimism of
    their marketing strategy. Some goals are simply at odds with each other, and either
    need to be revised or the inevitable compromises accepted (in which case part
    of the design brief becomes the minimisation of the impact of these compromises,
    and at that point we're in the realm of the kind of design issues that I like
    most: specific functionality rather than vague or fluid stylistic associations).
    So in the case of a newspaper reducing its page size while maintaining the same
    number of columns per page, the first thing out of my mouth would probably be
    about the impact of narrower columns, just as it has been in this thread, and
    the stylistic aspects of the brief would be of secondary concern to me.\r\n\r\nI
    suspect that central to the debate that Nick and I have had on this subject is
    that we're probably quite different kinds of designers, and he is more comfortable
    dealing in the language of stylistic associations (edgy, funky, etc.). This is
    clearly a strength on his part in terms of dealing with certain kinds of jobs
    and clients.\r\n\r\nI'd like very much to have the opportunity to design a text
    face for a specific newspaper, because the technical challenges posed by both
    layout design and print production are exactly the sort of things I like to deal
    with and which I can't often address as precisely as I would like in types that
    are aimed at broader use (multiple sizes, many different kinds of layout, different
    output devices, etc.) But I would find a brief that specified styslistic considerations,
    i.e. that sought to use the typeface to evoke particular associations or catchwords,
    either frustrating or irrelevant, because I would be setting out to design the
    most readable typeface possible within the framework imposed by the layout and
    production, and that would ultimately determine the style of the type."
  created: '2007-05-06 21:50:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Peter: <em>I think it\u2019s right that \u2018funkier\u2019 and \u2018edgier\u2019
    as brief must be seperated from those terms as foils for criticism.</em>\r\n\r\nYes.
    I used the term \"edgy\" to describe the outcome of a design process, and I qualified
    it in my first post here with regards to all sans heads and all ragged body text.
    Those features of the design are quite unusual in a newspaper. I don't recall
    that any client has ever given me a direction to make it \"edgy\" or \"funky\",
    certainly not the Globe and Mail.\r\n\r\n<em>I would be setting out to design
    the most readable typeface possible</em>\r\n\r\nThat's how I work too, although
    \"readable\" isn't one of my catchwords :-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-07 04:56:28'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Eben Sorkin has posted <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/ebensorkin/tags/torontoglobe/">photos</a>
    of Nick Shinn's Globe and Mail presentation at TypeCon.
  created: '2007-08-24 19:29:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "With a great shot of Nick! Well done, Eben!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-24 19:44:04'
date: '2007-04-23 18:45:36'
node_type: forum
title: New Globe and Mail today

---
