---
author:
  name: BrooklynRob
  picture: 110975
body: "I'm pro-[[Helvetica]] and have quite a bit of experience using it, and I haven't
  used [[Univers]] much. But lately I've seen things designed with Univers that look
  great. Does anyone have any thoughts on comparing the two? Univers seems to have
  slightly more personality /warmth/elegance, but maybe that's just because it seems
  \"newer\" to me (since I haven't used it much). \r\n\r\nThoughts?\r\n\r\nThanks."
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Rob,\r\nThey both came out at the same time in the mid 50s. There are those
    who are in one camp or another. I much prefer Univers because it is much more
    thought out as a family and just feels right to me.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-25 17:26:33'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Helvetica was drawn by an idealist. Univers was drawn by a type designer.
  created: '2007-04-25 18:03:48'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Univers is a further departure from the original 19th-century models. Helvetica
    is essentially a 19th-century grot cleaned up and sanitised for modern consumption.
    It''s very monoline, the letters are very unified in shape and width. Univers
    takes the model and adjusts the widths, stroke contrast, curves and aperture to
    be more clean, soft, simple, and truly modern. If you compare Univers with AG
    or other older grotesques, it looks visibly newer. Unlike Helvetica, Univers has
    letters of more classic roman proportions; compare R, A, S, E, B and D between
    Helvetica and Univers to see this proportion modulation. Helvetica is nearly monospaced
    in its width consistency. Helvetica''s apertures are more closed, most notably
    in c, a, S, C and e. Oddly, while Univers is as squarish as Helvetica, its higher
    stroke contrast relieves what in Helvetica is a blocky and heavy appearance. Univers
    is a more evolved design; Frutiger completely adapted it for 20th-century use.
    More important than all of these, Univers is spaced for text, which immediately
    makes it more suitable for small sizes. '
  created: '2007-04-25 18:12:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Type represents the technology of its day.\r\nArial is a revival of Helvetica,
    which in turn is a revival of Akzidenz Grotesk, a 19th century letterform.\r\nHelvetica
    has the shape of steam engine boilers and cast iron machinery.\r\nUnivers, on
    the other hand, has the \"supercurve\" (as Zapf termed it, and also used in Melior)
    of the CRT, the TV screen. This is more obvious, even, in Frutiger's original
    drawings. Novarese's Microgramma/Eurostile, is the most CRT-shaped face. \r\nBut
    ultimately, all those types still have a lot of lead in them, in particular that
    means quite subtle spacing (despite complaints about Helvetica as a text face).\r\nMore
    recent developments in type design take their sources from other media, less finely
    spaced than print. For instance highway signage (Interstate, DIN) typewriters
    (Officina), neon, and low res monitors. So now the vertical linearity of 'l' and
    'i\" become problematic, hence emergence of \"some serifs\" (to use the Berlow
    term) in sans faces, because these features help to moderate letterspacing. "
  created: '2007-04-25 19:05:57'
- author:
    name: seventy7
    picture: 111185
  body: "Nick, very interesting analysis. Gosh, I love reading thoughtful texts about
    type. \r\n\r\nAnd beautiful work with the Globe and Mail!\r\n\r\n~Roy Wilhelm\r\na
    publication designer in Richmond, Va."
  created: '2007-04-25 19:38:46'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "*adds to project list for summer: make Helvetica <em>v</em> Univers text-figure
    animation fight \xE0 la stick-figure fighting videos*\r\n \r\n<em>\xABEl futuro
    es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB.
    (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2007-04-25 19:45:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Both are better avoided (especially Helvetica, which is dated and gross).\r\nBut
    if you must ask the Helvetica vs Univers question, the answer is Unica.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-25 20:02:13'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Nick, that really is a great answer. Very thoughtful, as Roy said.
  created: '2007-04-25 20:19:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW: http://typophile.com/node/33285\r\n\r\n:->\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-25 20:36:21'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: The big difference is personality. Being a revival of Akzidenz-Grotesk with
    the life sucked out, Helvetica has almost none. Univers, on the other hand, has
    a cool technocratic feeling that borders on arrogance. I prefer to see Helvetica
    as a big display face, so that those big bones take on a warm feeling. I use Univers
    when I need to set a bunch of text and want it to look thoughtful and precise,
    and carry an air of authority.
  created: '2007-04-25 22:42:05'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Gurtler + Haas Unica related links\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/4840
    -\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/18387 -\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/12529 -\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/30859\r\n\r\nBTW
    I think Univers is always beguiling. Especially the numbers."
  created: '2007-04-26 01:12:26'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Interesting analysis Nick.\r\n\r\nWhile different, just out of curiosity,
    how would you characterize Champion & Knockout?"
  created: '2007-04-26 03:34:54'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Re-reading this thread I wanted thank Rob for bringing up a question I thought
    I basically knew the answers to - and to Carl & Nick for answers extended my knowlege.
    Now I am keen for more questions about stuff I falsely think I already have my
    head around. Cheers!
  created: '2007-04-26 16:40:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "James, what are your feeling about the new Univers compared with the old?\r\n\r\nKnockout:
    strikes me as exemplifying hands-on engineering (which will make ad hoc adjustments
    to optimize the efficiency of each part) rather than the smoothly consistent systematic
    exigesis of design principles, and in that is characteristic of the 19th century.\r\n\r\nYou
    see that still in Helvetica, where the \"a\" has a foot serif in the light weights,
    but not in the bold. \r\n\r\nTwo references to support this view of the Victorian
    engineer: Brunel working himself to death on the details of his huge projects,
    because the appropriate infrastructure of a large engineering firm had yet to
    be developed; and Maudslay, inventor of the bench micrometer, the \"finest man
    with a file\" (sorry, can't find the exact quote), very much the craftsman."
  created: '2007-04-26 17:52:08'
- author:
    name: Bruce
    picture: 112056
  body: "Interesting thread, everyone.\r\n\r\nre: Brunel, I recommend a superb book
    called <em>The Great Iron Ship</em> by James Dugan (New York: Harper & Brothers,
    1953) that describes Brunel in loving detail as he worked on his masterpiece,
    the <em>Great Eastern</em>, which laid the transatlantic cable. Of course he did
    so much more than that, including railway right-of-way design,  Temple Meads Station,
    bridges, and so forth. One cool cat.\r\n\r\nNick so rightly plants Helvetica's
    roots in the 19th century. Has anyone come across a comment that 19th-c. types
    wanted to express a kind of egalitariansim that was increasingly present in a
    society that was moving from industrial revolution into a time with much more
    social consciousness? It is so instructive to see a line of Helvetica set in A/C
    compared to something like Syntax or Penumbra, in which the allegedly desirable
    trait of all letters being \"equal\" actually reduces legibility and recognition
    of individual identity. I have the feeling that I read this perhaps back in early
    70s when I first started getting passionately interested in type, but for the
    life of me I can't remember where.\r\n\r\nAlthough HZ may refer to that meeting
    point between a square and a circle as \"supercurve\" I think we have to give
    credit to Gabriel Lam\xE9 and Piet Hein. Apparently there is some controversy
    as to whether HZ came up with the idea in Melior on his own, or if his abiding
    interest in things mathematical may have led him to see the work of these others
    at an earlier time, perhaps filing it away sub-consciously.\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gabriel_Lam%C3%A9\r\n\r\nhttp://www.oberonplace.com/products/plotter/tutor/lesson2.htm\r\n\r\nI
    don't get to come here as much as I would like to, but boy oh boy does Typophile
    give me good brain food! Not that everyone will read it in this one thread, but
    I hereby thank all of you for your curiosity, your wide-ranging interests, and
    your willingness to set them down in type for the rest of us to read. Great, great
    stuff."
  created: '2007-04-28 17:59:59'
- author:
    name: hoolia_d
    picture: 112385
  body: "I guess in being a student I've been completely turned off by helvetica.
    Everyone uses it in excess, or they use the crazy scribbly freeware typefaces
    that are already messy. \r\n\r\nIn response to Nick's first comment, arial was
    created to try to beat helvetica for windows platforms, not to renew it, but in
    regards to everything else, right on. \r\n\r\nI'm glad this discussion came up
    because I frequently argue with friends but it becomes an argument on form and
    usefulness and does not contain nearly as much historical background. \r\n\r\nI
    discovered Univers about two years ago. I appreciate it for it's versatility and
    it will always be superior to helvetica in my eyes. Every possible combination
    of weights looks amazing together, and although I know this is subjective I really
    truly feel that way. I even refered to the actual universe as the \"univers\"
    in writing. Real smart, I know. "
  created: '2007-04-29 17:40:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>arial was created to try to beat helvetica for windows platforms, not
    to renew it,</em>\r\n\r\nI used the term \"revival\", which is a quite specific
    typographic euphemism. \"Renew\" has a more general meaning.\r\n\r\nIn other design
    areas, what we call revivals are often termed reproductions or imitations.\r\n\r\nAdrian
    Frutiger created Univers from scratch -- starting with original drawings. "
  created: '2007-04-29 20:29:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> a quite specific typographic euphemism.\r\n\r\nActually it's used quite
    loosely by most of us.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: charles ellertson
    body: And I wouldn't term them <cite>euphemisms</cite> -- well, at least, not
      those done well. But some have truly "passed on."
    created: '2007-04-30 01:03:32'
  created: '2007-04-29 20:45:23'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Arial is not a revival of Helvetica.\r\n\r\nAccording to Mark Simonson Arial
    seems to be an adaptation of Monotype's grotesque series made by Birmy to match
    Helvetica's spacing so it could be substituted without disrupting a document's
    text flow. \r\n\r\nMicrosoft adopted Arial instead of Helvetica because of licensing
    and price issues but Microsoft didn't create Arial.\r\n\r\nAll this I learned
    at Mark Simonson's \"The scourge of Arial\".\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2007-04-30 03:41:09'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "H\xE9ctor, would you please list a print source for that? I have seen the
    Arial/Monotype Grot connection mentioned many times but never seen anything substantial
    written on the subject. I find it a curious claim, as Arial really resembles Helvetica
    whereas MT Grot looks, at least to me, to have grown out of late 19th century
    light grotesk designs. \r\n\r\nEdit: Nevermind, I just found the article."
  created: '2007-04-30 04:13:34'
- author:
    name: mark mcd
    picture: 120330
  body: "The choice to use which face in the number discussed above: it's almost spiritual.
    \r\n\r\nHelvetica reminds me of the airport signage of my youth, riding with my
    parents in a 707. Univers reminds me of the space program reaching out for the
    moon. Akzidenz Grotesk brings back the revelation from design school days when
    I discovered it was older than most sans-serif faces. Microgramma reminds me of
    space movies of the 1970s searching for space-age fonts to apply to sets and props.\r\n\r\nTo
    employ any of them in a specific design is like throwing the I Ching and becoming
    a typographical oracle. Helvetica's a little more voluptuous, Univers is a little
    more graceful, Akzidenz is a little more direct.\r\n\r\nBut then, I'm a positivist:
    I think just about every typeface is beautiful, if it can find the proper design
    environment in which to exist."
  created: '2010-07-12 08:42:58'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Nick:\r\n\r\n> Univers has the \"supercurve\" of the CRT\r\n\r\nDo you think
    of CRT typesetting?\r\n\r\nUniverse was developed in the 1950s\r\n\r\nsee http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Univers\r\n\r\n(The
    Universe release year was 1957)\r\n\r\nCRT composition was developed in the 1960s\r\n\r\nsee
    http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digiset\r\n\r\n(The Digiset release year was 1965)"
  created: '2010-07-12 11:37:25'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: A "supercurve" is like the shape of a 1950s television (CRT) screen, a sort
    of squarish curve. Nothing to do with CRT typesetting.
  created: '2010-07-12 14:52:02'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Thanks for the explanation.\r\n\r\nDo you also happen to know, in which book
    or paper Zapf coined this term?\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-12 19:12:42'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Pretty sure it's in one of his books, but I'm away from home at the moment
    and can't remember which.
  created: '2010-07-12 19:57:50'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "It\u2019s a superellipse, the Wikipedia entry has more information. Mmmm,
    Melior."
  created: '2010-07-12 20:13:56'
- author:
    name: six14
    picture: 120354
  body: 'In design school, I was eventually banned from using Helvetica. I came to
    love Univers. '
  created: '2010-07-15 05:16:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Meet the new boss.
  created: '2010-07-15 12:29:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Being \"banned from using Helvetica\" is just as bad as using it all the
    time!\r\nThe typeface you choose should be on how well it does the job, not on
    some philosophical stance.\r\n\r\nAs Nick stated, the boss/client may intervene
    but if you are making the decision, make it on effectiveness."
  created: '2010-07-15 15:23:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Being \"banned from using Helvetica\" is just as bad as using it all the
    time!\r\n\r\nWell, <em>almost</em> as bad.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-15 15:52:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: OK, Hrant--almost ;-)
  created: '2010-07-15 17:41:01'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Meet the new boss.</em>\r\n\r\nSame as the old boss; reference to <em>Baba
    O'Riley</em> noted..."
  created: '2010-07-15 19:45:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "akaczun ,\r\n\r\nPlease don't post ads in the discussion forums. There is
    a \"Release Area\" for that sort of thing."
  created: '2010-07-19 19:10:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I believe that Zapf has said he didn't know about the mathematical concept
    of the super ellipse when he designed Melior. He designed it in 1952, and the
    super ellipse became known more widely when Piet Hein, an engineer (and poet and
    cartoonist) in 1959 won a design prize for a round-about in Stockholm in a super
    ellipse.  \r\n\r\nPersonally, I never liked Melior, though I do like the new Ibis,
    which has Melior ancestry, but doesn't do the same curves inside and out. Univers
    has a slight squareness, compared to Helvetica. "
  created: '2010-07-19 19:25:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Melior was my favorite of the Zapf faces. The so-called super ellipse was
    also admired as a furniture shape for table tops.
  created: '2010-07-19 20:26:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, this was due to Piet Hein's influence, as he was also a designer.
    \r\n\r\nHe is has been a hero to me because he did engineering, furniture design,
    poetry, cartooning, and was part of the anti-Nazi resistance. What a cool guy!\r\n\r\nHere
    is the wikipedia article on him: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Piet_Hein_%28Denmark%29\r\n\r\nAnd
    here are some of his designs, which you can still buy: http://www.piethein.com/usr/piethein/HomepagUK.nsf
    \r\n\r\nBut for some reason I never liked the superellipse!"
  created: '2010-07-19 20:49:49'
- author:
    name: bstrom
    picture: 118773
  body: "<cite>Being \"banned from using Helvetica\" is just as bad as using it all
    the time!\r\nThe typeface you choose should be on how well it does the job, not
    on some philosophical stance.\r\n\r\nFor the sake of the argument, <em>why not</em>
    choose a typeface based on a philosophical stance?"
  created: '2010-07-20 19:25:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Because the user doesn't [need to] care about the designer.\r\nThat said,
    making any decision at least partly based on\r\na personal philosophy is an unavoidably
    human thing.\r\nIt's just important not to do it with intent.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-20 20:05:33'
- author:
    name: bstrom
    picture: 118773
  body: 'Admittedly, I''m a young buck, but the whole thing seems pretty arbitrary
    to me. With modernism, <em>so much</em> design was based on personal philosophy,
    and that was the way to do it. I tend to believe that we are simply looking at
    these problems from a different perspective. Can we now say that our current perspective
    is better than before? '
  created: '2010-07-20 20:16:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, I do hope mine is improving all the time!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-20 22:38:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"For the sake of the argument, why not choose a typeface based on a philosophical
    stance?\"\r\n\r\nThe issue is wether the nature of the typeface chosen contributes
    to the communication of the printed piece it is used for. If it does, then it
    is a good choice (there may be several good choices possible). The attributes
    of the typeface being judged center around the needs of the target audience and
    the message being conveyed. The personal philosophy of the person who decides
    on the typeface is at best irrelevant in the \"Audience, Purpose, Message\" triumvirate
    of determinants. In some cases of coincidence, the type specifier's philosophy
    may echo that of the intended audience but this is not likely.\r\n\r\nAs an example:
    Assume some graphic designer was given the job of designing a poster for a joint
    presentation by Massimo Vigneli, and Josef Mueller-Brockmann. In this case, using
    Helvetica would be a fine choice of a typeface. If the designer were forbidden
    from doing so based on his bosses' philosophy of only using brush scripts, it
    would be just silly. That is not to say that it would now be impossible to do
    a proper poster--it would just interject an unneeded hindrance."
  created: '2010-07-21 00:20:31'
- author:
    name: bstrom
    picture: 118773
  body: "Ah, it is clearer to me now the nature of what we are talking about. I quite
    agree with that, dezcom. \r\n\r\nTell me if this would be an equally applicable
    example: <em>A designer uses Helvetica (or Univers, or whatever) for the logo
    and branding of a kindergarten school in the United States, based on reasons on
    goals involving rationality and objectivity, and the hope that children should
    be exposed to these design ideals and philosophies at a young age, that they may
    be further propagated.</em>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-21 00:53:46'
- author:
    name: David Boni
    picture: 117710
  body: "I think both typefaces are just fine. I personally prefer certain glyphs
    from Helvetica versus Univers, notably R, G, C, and Q. They feel more solid, serious.
    But that\u2019s just my from-the-heart-and-gut opinion.\r\n\r\nI also don\u2019t
    want to come up with a clever metaphor to describe the Helvetica-hate going on
    as outrageously snobby-sounding. Sorry guys. It\u2019s tiring to note the fact
    that if I\u2019m not wearing authentic Ray Bans with a Leica camera strapped around
    my neck while driving a Ford Torino and making layouts with the original cut of
    Akzidenz, someone out there will not be happy."
  created: '2010-07-21 01:43:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You don't have to be a snob to realize Helvetica's <em>technical</em> faults.\r\nThere's
    a whole world to type beyond mere superficial fashion/style.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-21 03:31:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Actually, I take back what I said about the super ellipse. I just looked
    at [[http://www.fritzhansen.com/en/fritz-hansen/designers.aspx#/piet_hein?i=i|these
    tables]] designed by Piet Hein and Bruno Mathsson in 1968, and they're gorgeous.
    \r\n\r\nI guess it's a question of which super ellipse, and its use. A lot of
    stuff that came out which resembled this was lame, but the real thing is lovely.
    \ "
  created: '2010-07-21 05:46:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/telefunken_rfb-t2_4688.jpg]\r\n\r\nTelefunken,
    1939: the first \"rectangular\" CRT.\r\nPrior to that, TV tubes were round, but
    had a \"landscape picture format\" viewing area cropped onto them.\r\nSimilarly,
    cameras crop the circular image from a camera lens into a square film format --
    so the new media, cameras and then TVs (and computer screens), adopted the traditional
    image-display shape.\r\n\r\nThe cartouche shape goes back to Ancient Egypt (Ramses
    era):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ramses_6086.jpg]\r\n\r\n...and an
    oval shape was used for the traditional Japanese fan (here, 1808):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/toyokuni_i_1808_fan_4741.jpg]\r\n\r\nThese
    in themselves are quite specific and different ellipses.\r\n\r\nIMO, the super
    ellipse emerged as an intriguing, recognizable shape about 70 years ago, a compromise
    because it was impossible to blow a square glass tube. This compromise shape had
    a cachet of style and glamour, representing the leading edge of technology.\r\n\r\nThis
    shape was then adopted by furniture makers and type designers, cross-over.\r\nAlessandro
    Butti and Aldo Novarese were the first to thoroughly base a type design on the
    super ellipse CRT, in 1952.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TV_6359.png]\r\n\r\nInterestingly,
    Adrian Frutiger's working drawings (I recall seeing them in a small paperback
    monograph) for Univers show much more super-ellipse than in the finished item."
  created: '2010-07-21 15:16:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Did I just make another post to a thread with \"Helvetica\" in its title?\r\nThis
    is too Mariah vs. Beyonc\xE9, gotta stop."
  created: '2010-07-21 15:25:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's baaaaack...\r\nhttp://www.engadget.com/2010/08/03/logitech-announces-alert-series-of-high-def-security-cameras-we/\r\n\r\nYou
    could say it never left, but I think it's starting to ramp up for real.\r\nLike
    that <em>security camera</em> - I don't think I'd seen one like that.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    a true superellipse has no flat sides.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-03 15:00:41'
- author:
    name: hun
    picture: 120459
  body: "speaking of microgrammar.. it is such a handsome font!\r\nit is about the
    past-future kind of imagining the future and i liked how stark it is\r\ni'd picture
    it in something like total recall, demolition man, terminator kind of future i
    guess? at once have brooding, artistic elmeents too\r\n\r\nanyways helvetica vs
    univers.... i'd go for the latter if i have to choose one.. it's slightly more
    elegant and geometrically appealing i think"
  created: '2010-08-03 17:01:43'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'There was an exhibition a few years ago at the Brooklyn Museum called "Vital
    Forms," on shapes like this throughout American design in the mid-twentieth-century.
    Catalog [[http://www.amazon.com/Vital-Forms-American-Design-1940-1960/dp/0810906198|here]]
    and archive of the exhibition [[http://www.brooklynmuseum.org/opencollection/exhibitions/1202/Vital_Forms%3A_American_Art_and_Design_in_the_Atomic_Age_1940-1960|here]]. '
  created: '2010-08-03 18:33:20'
- author:
    name: RG
  body: "I am curious to know what Typophiles think of Brendan Stromberger's (bstrom's)
    post: <blockquote>[...]Helvetica (or Univers, or whatever) for the logo and branding
    of a kindergarten[...]</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\nRG"
  created: '2011-03-20 21:45:58'
- author:
    name: derrylwc
  body: "While every designer should be aware of the history (and therefore, the myriad
    legitimate reasons why things are or aren't done in a certain way) surrounding
    design issues... to say that one should always use Helvetica over Univers or Arial,
    what-have-you, is a tad simplistic. They're all lovely typefaces, and each designer
    will fall into their groove of using a particular one over the other - based on
    the type of work they do (nature of clients, etc.) and their personal aesthetic.\r\n\r\nNick
    makes some very good points, however, about the real-world connotations that these
    highly-similar faces have. I personally find the horizontally-sliced appearance
    of Helvetica to be rather machined-looking and harsh, as if the letterforms of
    the 'e' or 'c' might cut you somehow... as a result I use Arial much more frequently.
    To me it seems friendlier and equally professional.\r\n\r\nSome designers use
    Helvetica exclusively, because it \"cannot be improved upon\" and therefore should
    always be used. This is neither true, nor is it worth arguing in much depth. To
    each his/her own!"
  created: '2011-03-20 23:21:28'
date: '2007-04-25 16:29:18'
node_type: forum
title: Helvetica vs. Univers

---
