---
author:
  name: David Lawless
  picture: 110817
body: "Hi There,\r\n\r\nI want to add additional [[ligature|ligatures]] to an [[OpenType]]
  typeface i'm developing. I've included ff fi fl ffi ffl ft st and want to add ffb
  ffh ffi ffk ffl fft fh fj fk fl ft sp fb fh fk. Can anyone advise on what [[Unicode]]
  Names I need to use. I was looking at the [[Private Use Area|PUA]] values which
  [[Warnock Pro]] uses (E032, E033) but [[Adobe]] recommends against this as it can
  lead to incorrect funtionality. Any help would be really appreciated.\r\n\r\n\r\nMany
  thanks,\r\n\r\nDave Lawless"
comments:
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "As I understand it for the unofficial ligatures you have two choices: \r\n\r\n-
    Include a seprate font with the ligatures in the spaces of official glyphs. This
    might be a good choice if you want broad compatibility and your font is for display
    use and it is reasonable to assume that the designer will have time to tweak 1-3
    lines of letters and manually select their choices.\r\n\r\n- script your ligatures
    to substitute in automatically, and create your own name for the glyph. This is
    a good idea ( perhaps ) if your face is for text and you want to make it easy
    for the ligatures to be used everytime. Of course they won't be in all applications.
    Different features have different levels of support too. \r\n\r\nThere are other
    options & situations that are possible too but these are the two extremes.\r\n\r\nHere
    is a thread about this subject which links to others and a reference:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/14590\r\n\r\nAlso
    you might search from the forums page for 'Calt' and or 'Liga' or go to google\r\n\r\nAlso,
    you could go here \r\nhttp://groups.msn.com/FontLab\r\nor here\r\nhttp://www.twardoch.com/adam/project.php?pid=0049\r\n\r\nI
    hope that other folk who are more versed in this than I am will comment as well
    and that you will describe your face and the way you would preffer to see your
    ligatures used: eg automatically or as discretionary.\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-04-26 18:11:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Dave,\r\n\r\nFollow the Adobe glyph naming rules for ligatures, which specify
    that component names separated by an underscore, hence:\r\n\r\nf_f_b\r\nf_f_h
    \r\nf_f_i \r\nf_f_k \r\nf_f_l \r\nf_f_t \r\nf_h \r\nf_j \r\nf_k \r\nf_l \r\nf_t
    \r\ns_p \r\nf_b \r\nf_h \r\nf_k\r\n\r\nAlthough the glyph names for the ligatures
    with Unicode presentation form codepoints are recognised by apps that parse glyph
    names, Adobe's latest practice, which I also recommend, is to use the underscore
    convention for these too:\r\n\r\nf_f \r\nf_i \r\nf_l \r\nf_f_i \r\nf_f_l \r\nf_t
    \r\ns_t"
  children:
  - author:
      name: David Lawless
      picture: 110817
    body: "Thanks to both of you for your help. I think i'll give the undescore convention
      a go and see what happens.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\nDave"
    created: '2007-04-27 08:41:28'
  created: '2007-04-27 04:26:22'
- author:
    name: David Lawless
    picture: 110817
  body: "Hi John,\r\n\r\nIn the Glyph properties window I've substituted the name
    with the underscore convention (see attached).\r\n\r\nIs this correct?\r\n\r\nD.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ffj_6383.png]"
  created: '2007-04-27 09:14:27'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "In addition to what John wrote, you'll need to have two additional glyphs,
    named <strong>fi</strong> and <strong>fl</strong>, that are duplicates of 'f_i'
    and 'f_l'. These two additional glyphs should be encoded as FB01 and FB02, respectively.
    The reason for having to include these glyphs (named and encoded this way) is
    because they are part of the MacRoman character set.\r\n\r\n> <em>In the Glyph
    properties window I\u2019ve substituted the name with the underscore convention.
    Is this correct?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, that's the way you rename a glyph."
  created: '2007-04-27 17:19:31'
- author:
    name: David Lawless
    picture: 110817
  body: "That's great Miguel. I noticed that about the fi and fl and was wondering
    what to do with them.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\nDave"
  created: '2007-04-27 17:31:48'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Are there any other instances, like the fi and fl, that require duplicate
    encodings? Would the underscore convention also apply to [[diphthong|diphthongs]]
    like AE and OE, or to other [[digraphs]] like ij or ch?
  created: '2007-04-28 17:29:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Only the fi and fl need to be encoded, because they exist in the Mac Roman
    8-bit codepage. For the most part, ligatures don't need to be encoded at all,
    and should be accessed via OpenType Layout features.\r\n\r\nDigraphs are an interesting
    issue, because in some cases they are distinctly encoded in Unicode, usually because
    they existed in a legacy encoding with which Unicode provides one-to-one roundtrip
    mapping, but in general terms digraphs (and trigraphs and tetragraphs) are not
    distinctly encoded in Unicode because their handling is something that is expected
    to be handled at a higher level (e.g. in a tailored collation algorithm for a
    particular language). So the \xC6/\xE6, \u0152/\u0153 and \u0132/\u0133 are encoded
    in Unicode, along with some Serbocroatian digraphs that were needed for roundtrip
    mapping to the Cyrillic orthography, but the German ch and many others are not."
  created: '2007-04-28 20:58:48'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks for commenting John. \r\n\r\nWhat Opentype Layout Feature would you
    suggest using for ch rr or lj? A Language feature - Correct? Not calt, because
    you won't want a rr digraph in all langages just the ones that use it. (Spanish
    Catalan & Albanian as far as I can tell so far)\r\n\r\nAll my information on Digraphs
    come from Peter Bil'ak & his Fedra mono work\r\nhttp://www.typotheque.com/site/font_features.php?family_id=5&id=58\r\nand
    the wikipedia\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digraph_(orthography)\r\n\r\nWhat
    sources do you favor?\r\n\r\nAlso, I had a thread about Digraphs here which sort
    of died. Any new input would be great! \r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/29782\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-29 00:25:25'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Mr. Lawless,\r\n\r\nMuch of what one <cite>needs</cite> for a proper OpenType
    font depends on what you plan to do with it. If a font is for general sale, I
    suppose following Adobe is prudent; at least, to the extent that the general consumer
    knows what to expect from Adobe fonts, even though Adobe from time to time rethinks
    their naming/encoding conventions.\r\n\r\nIf, however, you are making a font only
    for your company's use, you can tailor naming & encoding for that use. For example,
    our company converts all incoming documents to MS Word (for Windows XP), to be
    finally typeset in InDesign. There will likely also be an XML file of the final
    text, but that is the entire universe I have to pay attention to.\r\n\r\nFor that
    reason, I do not have multiple fi ligatures (e.g., \"fi\" and \"f_i\") in a font
    -- simply f_i as a glyph name; no Unicode number. The ligature is used in the
    typeset file via the liga feature. This also prevents the ligature from somehow
    getting into a later XML file; our house rule is separate characters coming in,
    separate characters going out, the ligature is used only in the typeset file.\r\n\r\nOne
    reason (I think) ligatures got Unicode encoding is that some applications programs
    can only perform searches on characters, not glyphs. If you don't know how your
    font is to be used (i.e., it is for sale), you have to covers such bases. If you
    do know, you need cover only what you need for your application, with any eye
    towards the most useful XML file, intended for later use, often with unknown fonts.\r\n\r\nI
    mention this because when I started looking at OpenType naming I too looked at
    Adobe fonts, and it took me a while to figure out why they did certain things
    that made no sense from a Unicode point of view, or why some things -- like small
    caps -- were so complicated. "
  created: '2007-04-29 01:37:28'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "The layout feature code to be entered in the OpenType panel of FontLab Studio
    would be like:\r\n\r\n<code>feature liga {\r\n  sub f f b by f_f_b;\r\n  sub f
    f h by f_f_h;\r\n  </code><em>... (rest of three-letter substitutions)</em><code>\r\n
    \ sub f b by f_b;\r\n  sub f f by f_f;\r\n  sub f i by f_i;\r\n  sub f l by f_l;\r\n
    \ </code><em>... (rest of two-letter substitutions)</em><code>\r\n} liga;\r\n\r\nfeature
    dlig {\r\n  sub s p by s_p;\r\n  sub s p by s_t;\r\n} dlig;</code>\r\n\r\nRemember
    to put the substitution rules for your three-letter ligatures before the rules
    for the two-letter ligatures. \r\n\r\nIf your font includes character for Turkish
    and similar languages, remember to include a glyph named \"i.TRK\" which would
    be an identical copy of \"i\", and at the beginning of your feature list include
    a layout feature as follows: \r\n\r\n<code>feature locl {\r\n  language TRK exclude_dflt;
    # Turkish\r\n  lookup locl_TRK {\r\n  sub i by i.TRK;\r\n  } locl_TRK;\r\n  language
    AZE exclude_dflt; # Azeri\r\n  lookup locl_TRK;\r\n  language CRT exclude_dflt;
    # Crimean Tatar\r\n  lookup locl_TRK;\r\n} locl;</code>\r\n\r\nIf your font has
    small caps, you'll need to add more things to your locl feature. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2007-04-29 23:13:16'
- author:
    name: David Lawless
    picture: 110817
  body: "Great advice, thanks to all of you!\r\n\r\nDave"
  created: '2007-04-30 08:33:10'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "OK, this may just be a symptom of using obsolete tools, but I can't give
    characters names that include an underscore in Fontographer 4.1.5 Mac NFPU. I've
    made a whole bunch of custom ligatures and at some [point I'd like to get them
    working properly for everyone.\r\n\r\nI don't have Fontlab, but I suppose I could
    generate a Type 1 font and make corrections in FontForge. "
  created: '2007-05-03 01:14:21'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I haven't thought this through entirely, but the underscore is a convention,
    not a requirement. If you are making an OpenType font, you can NAME the glyphs
    anything you want, and leave them unencoded. For example, the glyph \"fb\" could
    be named \"fb\" (or, for wimsy, \"halfback\", my personal test for the f-b fit).
    When you write the liga feature, add\r\n\r\nsub f b by fb\r\n\r\nand so on. I
    would leave them unencoded, but if for some reason you feel they must have a Unicode
    encoding, use the private use area -- E001 & so forth.\r\n\r\nIf you are making
    a Type 1 font, you can still name it \"fb\" etc., but be aware that unless someone
    is using an application program that permits custom encoding vectors, they won't
    be available. If it is a Type 1 font for Quark, for example, you'd have to give
    it (them) the name(s) for a Mac or PC encoded character -- do like other foundries
    do, & lie about the name. \"Integral\" is one favorite, if it isn't a math font.\r\n\r\nNot
    an ideal situation for a commercial font."
  created: '2007-05-03 02:31:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "While using the underscore in ligature names is not a requirement of OpenType,
    it is a requirement for Acrobat to be able to reconstruct text from raw glyph
    strings such as might occur in PDFs generated from print streams. The preferred
    ways to create PDFs embed the original character codes in the document, but there
    are some mechanisms for creating PDFs that do not do this and in which the glyph
    name becomes the only indicator of what the underlying text was. In the case of
    ligatures it then becomes important that the names are of a format parseable by
    Acrobat. This means using either the underscore convetion or the extended uniXXXX
    convetion. For example an ffj ligature could be named either\r\n\r\nf_f_j\r\n\r\nor
    \r\n\r\nuni00660066006A"
  created: '2007-05-03 05:03:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Eben, I would probably associated the language-specific digraph forms with
    the 'liga' feature under the appropriate language system tags. Most digraphs forms
    are probably in the category of things that one wants on by default but wants
    to allow the user the ability to turn off, so the 'liga' feature is more appropriate
    than 'dlig' (off by default) or 'rlig' (cannot be turned off).\r\n\r\nAside from
    possible ligated forms (which are actually the exception rather than the norm
    for digraphs in most languages and type styles), there are other aspects of such
    phonemically unique letter sequences that need to be considered in quality typography
    and which cannot be controlled by the font. One of these is behaviour during letterspacing:\r\n\r\nS
    C H R I J V E N   or   S C H R IJ V E N\r\n\r\nAnother is behaviour in vertical
    setting:\r\n\r\nS\r\nC\r\nH\r\nR\r\nI\r\nJ\r\nV\r\nE\r\nN\r\n\r\nor\r\n\r\nS\r\nC\r\nH\r\nR\r\nIJ\r\nV\r\nE\r\nN\r\n\r\nThese
    kinds of practices vary according to the language, and probably vary over time
    as different conventions are adopted or dropped."
  created: '2007-05-03 05:11:03'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: John, Thank You!
  created: '2007-05-03 06:44:55'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>While using the underscore in ligature names is not a requirement of
    OpenType, it is a requirement for Acrobat to be able to reconstruct text from
    raw glyph strings such as might occur in PDFs generated from print streams.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    but in my line of work anyway, this would be a rare situation. Recovering the
    raw glyph strings is best done out of the Applications program (InDesign in my
    case) via an XML file. But you're right about the name -- while hard to use, uni00660062
    would be a better name for \"fb.\" And since the ligature is executed by the program,
    you don't really have to remember the name. There is at least one limitation to
    this technique for Adobe (Acrobat); I believe the limit is 12 places, so that
    would be a three-character ligature.  "
  created: '2007-05-03 18:18:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Adam, what is the reasoning behind substituting an identical glyph and naming
    it i.TRK?\r\n\r\nI would have thought the only special thing that needs to be
    done for Turkish is to make sure that for the small caps feature \"\u0131\" (dotless
    i) is substituted by I.smcp, but that should be done anyway all Latin encodings. "
  created: '2007-05-03 20:41:52'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "In Turkish languages, \u0131 is a separate letter from i, so:\r\nin small
    caps and cap conversion, i should go to a version with a dot and \u0131 to one
    without\r\nligatures should not make the differentiation between the two ambiguous\r\nthis
    is all easier to keep straight with a localized version of \"i\"\r\n\r\nsee this
    tread:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/29469"
  created: '2007-05-03 21:15:51'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: .
  created: '2007-05-03 21:34:40'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "John, so your point is that in both cases ( Digraphs and ligatures ) we have
    a bit of a thankless task as font designers. Is that right?\r\n\r\nAlso, I was
    wondering if you felt that the visual density of a digraph was to some extent
    a part of it's essential nature - or put another way could designing a digraph
    for pleasant visual spacing (and or Notan) get in the way of recognition? I am
    sure that it's a bit of a grey area but I am interested to hear what you would
    say all the same."
  created: '2007-05-03 21:56:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks Paul.\r\nSo the idea is to avoid the ambiguity that an f_i ligature
    might present in Turkish.\r\nHmm, not so sure about that -- it seems to be a trade
    off betweeen the better visual ergonomics of the f_i ligature vs. disambiguation.
    A lot would depend on the typeface. I wonder what Turkish opinion is on the f_i
    ligature?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fikir_3495.jpg]"
  created: '2007-05-03 23:01:39'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Not necessarily on topic, but I find some typefaces often design the fi ligature
    too tight. I occasionally do not use the fi ligature just to maintain spacing.
  created: '2007-05-03 23:44:19'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Seems pretty on topic to me . . . and the other situation occurs, too, where
    the fi liagture is too loose, as in Monotype Garamond.\r\n\r\nAnother note: while
    it can be nice to have the f + ascender-on-the-left ligatures (fb, fh, fk), more
    important are the accented vowels. Try setting an f + igrave sometime. or f +
    iumlaut, or f + imacron. And it doesn't have to be just the \"i\", any vowel with
    a grave accent is problematic if the terminal on the \"f\" has a tendency to swoop.
    I've been known to add these when really needed; it is a fair bit of work, and
    I've never really found a good solution for some fonts.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-04 00:04:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Try setting an f + igrave sometime. or f + iumlaut, or f + imacron. And
    it doesn\u2019t have to be just the \u201Ci\u201D, any vowel with a grave accent
    is problematic if the terminal on the \u201Cf\u201D has a tendency to swoop.\"\r\n\r\nMakes
    a good case for contextual alternates. By including an alternate f with a lessened
    swoop, you can find a solution.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-05-04 01:09:09'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Less swoop helps, but of course, you can do that as a part of the ligature.
    And if it is an f + i(accented), the dot over the \"i\" isn't used, so less swoop
    needed.\r\n\r\nBut with an igrave, work also has to be done on the accent. I have
    an \"f_igrave\" in Bembo that works, but looks passing strange; still better than
    anything else I've thought of. All suggestions welcome. And apparently f_imacron
    isn't all that uncommon in transliterated Asian languages -- when I have to make
    one, sometimes the the macron rides a touch lower than established by the foundry.
    Shorter, too.\r\n\r\nBut you have a good idea -- Matthew Carter made a Swedish
    version of Galliard with a change to the \"f\" to better fit with umlauts. You
    can get that version in the States, by the way, and the difference in the \"f\"
    is not noticeable. This is the Galliard I use whenever it is specified. Doesn't
    help with igrave, though."
  created: '2007-05-04 01:49:23'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Makes a good case for contextual alternates. </cite> \r\n\r\nDude!
    Totaly!!\r\n\r\nThanks for the example Charles!\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-04 02:31:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I knew you would like that one, Eben :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-05-04 03:05:11'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> So the idea is to avoid the ambiguity that an f_i ligature might present
    in Turkish. Hmm, not so sure about that\r\n\r\n\r\nSince of that  ambiguity --
    \ fi ->  f\u0131 or  fi --    f ligatures are prohibited in Turkish."
  created: '2007-05-04 07:23:27'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: So then would it be advisable to design a special substitute non-interfering
    Turkish f when the regular f tends toward accent interference?
  created: '2007-05-06 21:32:26'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Sounds like a perfectly good idea - a \"Linotype f\" would work well for
    that.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2007-05-06 21:50:37'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "cuttlefish wrote:\r\n<cite>So then would it be advisable to design a special
    substitute non-interfering Turkish f when the regular f tends toward accent interference?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhy
    not! But I'd switch priorities: make the less sweeping 'f' the default, and substitute
    by the sweeping 'f' if non-ascending or non-accent glyphs follow. Fewer headaches
    when kerning ...\r\nIt's the non-accented glyphs that are the exceptions in an
    extended glyph set."
  created: '2007-05-07 00:12:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Nice point Karsten! :-)
  created: '2007-05-07 01:15:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Eben: <em>I was wondering if you felt that the visual density of a digraph
    was to some extent a part of it\u2019s essential nature</em>\r\n\r\nOn the contrary,
    in the majority of alphabets that do not include a single sign for every phonemic
    unit of language -- which is probably the majority of alphabets -- digraphs, trigraphs
    and tetragraphs generally do not take a form in which the letters in any way differ
    from their normal forms. We read them as individual phonemic signs because we
    learn to. In some orthographies, a particular sequence of letters might always
    form a digraph (I believe this is the case with the Dutch ij) but there are very
    many languages in which letter sequences can be pronounced in multiple ways and
    in different words may represent a single sound or a sequence of sounds. English
    and other languages with etymological and root-based spelling tend to develop
    these situations over time as pronounciation changes.\r\n\r\nIn some orthographies,
    digraphs etc. are considered separate units within the alphabet, which means that
    they are sorted independently of their constituent letters. This generally indicates
    a consistency in their pronunciation. In other orthographies letter sequences
    that function as digraphs some of the time will be sorted in order of the individual
    letters."
  created: '2007-05-07 04:57:16'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "John, let me see if I have understood what you are saying. Are you are first
    making the point that digraphs ( trigraphs and tetragraphs ) exist in spoken language
    first and that their existence as linguistic phonemes is precedes and informs
    glyphs? I think you are also saying that there is often no neat correspondence
    or matching between a glyph/sign and the phoneme. I know you said more than this
    but I am hoping this was the distiction you were making vis a vis glyphs & sorting.
    If so, this makes sense to me and is a good point that would be easy to loose
    sight of in the mad rush for glyphs. \r\n\r\nOkay. But back to the glyphs again.
    There is a further distinction between the the sorting  of the digraph and visual
    form the glyphic counterpart to the digraph takes. Which means that you can have:\r\n\r\n\u2022
    \ a phonemic digraph which can look like two letters and be sorted in the manner
    of two - the common state. In which case the digraph is a digraph in only the
    phonemeic sense. Correct?\r\n\r\n\u2022  a phonemic digraph where it can can look
    like two letters and be sorted in the manner of one - the next most common\r\n\r\n\u2022
    \ and a phonemic digraph where it is presented as a single glyph and sorted in
    the manner of one - the rarity\r\n\r\n\u2022 and a phonemic digraph where it is
    treated as a single ligatured glyph and sorted in the manner of one - still more
    rare (and maybe non-existent?)\r\n\r\nIs this breakdown of states corect & complete?
    \ \r\n\r\nWhich brings me to my question: When Peter Bil\u2019ak made Fedra Mono,
    and made the digraphs he made as single glyphs was he embracing the various cultures
    prefered model for these digraphs ( the single sort & single glyph ) or was he
    inventing something? The sense I have is that he was inventing. That is why places
    for a single glyph sz do not appear in the Open type spec. Is that right?\r\n\r\nStill,
    if you don't mind I would like to list the single glyph digraphs he made and if
    you would comment on if you think there is there is a reason or prescedent for
    making them into single glyphs ( or not ) in monospace or variable spaced fonts
    - that would be great! And if you think there is a good reason to consider ligatures
    in any of them ( I don't think there is but...) that would be great too.\r\n\r\nCzech
    - ch\r\nCroat - d\u017E ch lj nj\r\nDutch - ij\r\nHungarian - cs gy ly ny sz ty
    zs\r\nLatvian - ch dz d\u017E\r\nLithuanian - ch\r\nMaltese - gh ie\r\nSlovak
    - ch dz d\u017E\r\nSpanish & Catalan - ch ll rr\r\n\r\nThen there is also the
    \u013F (U+013F) and \u0140 (U+0140) which breaks a digraph which I think would
    be considered seprate for sorting purposes. I think that the punt volat double
    l (el) is distinct from the ll listed above. Is it?\r\n\r\nThis examples leads
    me to ask: do you think that the punt volat model is the best one to follow? It
    seems like it to me given the problems associated with letterspacing you illustrated
    before.\r\n\r\nOr maybe each case has to be considered on it's own merits history
    etc..."
  created: '2007-05-08 18:24:19'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Eben: Spanish rr isn't technically considered a digraph, althoug it is often
    taught (erroneously) that way.  <em>rr</em> represents a an alveolar trill in
    the vast majority of dialects which in reality is just a series of alveolar flaps,
    which incidentally is represented by <em>r</em>.  Since r-initial and r-final
    and r-post-nasal is realised as a trill, there's no reason to (and indeed I've
    never seen an rr lig .. wouldn't it just look like an m with its leg chopped off
    for lowercase?) I took a look at Fedra Mono, and I know Spanish speakers would
    find it a bit weird to read the letters squashed into a space like that.  I've
    experimented with some other ways for Spanish digraphs <em>ch</em> and <em>ll</em>
    with moderate success: the <em>ch</em> digraph using the same style as the German
    blackletter, and the <em>ll</em> by extending the second <em>l</em>'s serif until
    it joins the ascender of the first.  I found this wasn't as distracting to readers
    but also clearly delineated the special function of those digraphs.  The main
    reason was that the spacing was still the same, just with an ever so slight amount
    of extra lines.\r\n\r\nAnyways, as to encoding the digraphs in Unicode, the vast
    majority of them were encoded for backwards compatibility's sake.  As no encodings
    previously used <em>ch</em> or <em>sch</em> from German, neither of these were
    included and so for Unicode to include it as a separate character (Remember Unicode
    is based on the character, not the glyph) one would have to demonstrate where
    the digraph/ligatured version was used or is used as a contrasting element to
    its non-ligatured/digraphed compoments.  Spanish at best kerned the <em>c</em>
    and <em>h</em> a little bit closer but I've not seen any typeset books that combine
    them as a character ligatured in the same manner as <em>fi</em> or <em>ae</em>,
    and certainly not contrasted with a c-h combination.  Hence, the only digraphs
    you find are really legacy, although those like eszett or <em>ae</em> are included
    because they are contrastive within languages that use them.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2007-05-08 19:56:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Matthew, \r\n\r\nI agree that that rr would be especially hard to make into
    a 'visual digraph'. Are you sure it's not a phonemic digraph? What about for sorting?
    Also, I have read that there are some South American designers who though ligation
    to acknowlege the spoken or phonemeic difference was a good idea:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/31238\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/29/ORIGEN_PDF-42729.pdf\r\n\r\nOf
    course that doesn't make it a good idea.\r\n\r\nIt is also worth noting that :\r\n\r\na)
    A digraph doesn't have to connect/ligate or even squish together like an ae to
    be a visual digraph. It would just have to look different enough that it's staus
    as a distinct sorting and phonemic digraph was acknowledged. \r\nb) This kind
    of distinction may or may not be a good idea depending on how it's done & if there
    is a cultural basis from which to think about doing it. \r\n\r\nFor instance in
    the case of Catalan \"An old ligature for Ll is known as the \"broken L\", which
    takes the form of a lowercase l with the top half shifted to the left, connected
    to the lower half with a thin horizontal stroke. This ligature is not encoded
    by any standard character encoding and therefore cannot be used in digitized documents.\"\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ll\r\n\r\nWhich
    makes me wonder is the old way worth reviving? Does it have currency in Barcelona?
    \ How do people write their LL (or ll) now? Probably it's a grey kind of question
    with no clear answer. Or maybe somebody here can say. Was your ll ligature in
    the style described above? \r\n\r\nAlso sometimes you could have a case like LL
    where the sorting function has been abandoned. The Wikipedia also says \"This
    digraph was traditionally considered a single letter in Spanish orthography, called
    elle, and was collated after L as a separate entry, but this is no longer done.\"
    \r\n\r\nBut it sounds like you are saying that in general most digraphs don't
    require special treatment. Partly because Unicode doesn't ask for it & partly
    because there is no historical basis for a distincntive visual treatment - involving
    ligation or otherwise. Is that right?"
  created: '2007-05-08 20:31:36'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I tried the so-called broken L, however, it was quite distracting and didn't
    \"fit\".  The Wikipedia article is slightly incorrect though, because of course
    any OpenType font can define an <em>ll</em> ligature (and a lot of script fonts
    do).  I've not seen any printed examples of the broken L, but that's not to say
    that it doesn't exist, but I certainly never saw it when I was in Catalonia or
    the Belearic Islands.  When I get back on my home computer I can post examples
    of my solution and the Catalan one.\r\n\r\nBut you are correct in my saying there's
    no real special treatment that one needs to give digraphs.  Unicode has helped
    create a multilingual sorting algorithm that you can find at http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr10/
    .  It's not universal in that it takes some priorities given user preferences,
    and whilst the document is rather technically oriented, if you're oriented to
    reading these kinds of documents it might make how Unicode does things make a
    little (but only marginally so, obviously optimally they would have removed all
    legacy encodings, but then no one would have adopted it).  But the general idea
    you can get from it is that Unicode itself doesn't encode the language intricacies,
    and leaves that to the program that displays it.  This is why we as designers
    have to separately encode different display forms for the same letter -- functionally
    (semantically) they are the same in two different languages, but written (graphically)
    they are different.  Unicode in theory only encodes semantic differences.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2007-05-08 21:33:37'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "Eben, it might help to think about the treatment of digraphs in English.
    For example, most English speakers would not appreciate a \"th\" or \"aw\" digraph
    that formed a single unit in a monospaced font, even though they represent single
    phonemes, because English orthography doesn't acknowledge digraphs. Thus, \"ae\"
    and \"oe\" ligatures used to be used for loanword digraphs in English, but they've
    been obsolete for several decades and most people now would think they were weird.
    Croatian might be an opposite case, where the digraphs - because they correspond
    to single letters in Cyrillic - are accepted as single letters, and were incorporated
    as such into official character encodings (and thus into Unicode).\r\n\r\nEach
    language has its own rules for these things, and they aren't necessarily consistent
    even within a language. Spanish collation rules used to sort \"ch\" and \"ll\"
    separately from \"c\" and \"l\", but they don't anymore; Dutch treats \"ij\" as
    a single unit for capitalization, but not \"oe\". And Croatian digraphs like \"lj\"
    are units for most purposes (including crossword puzzles) but not for capitalization.
    There's no easy rule for all this; you need to learn it for each language. Or
    not worry too much about it and just provide general-purpose tools.\r\n\r\nThere's
    a simpler presentation of the Unicode position on digraphs at <a href=\"http://unicode.org/faq/ligature_digraph.html\">http://unicode.org/faq/ligature_digraph.html</a>."
  created: '2007-05-08 21:52:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Eben: <em>Are you are first making the point that digraphs ( trigraphs and
    tetragraphs ) exist in spoken language first and that their existence as linguistic
    phonemes is precedes and informs glyphs?</em>\r\n\r\nDigraphs etc. are written
    conventions to use more than one letter to represent a single phoneme. They don't
    'exist in spoken language': they're an extension of the alphabetic system to represent
    more sounds without adding more letters. Sometimes, these digraphs evolve into
    ligated forms as \xE6 and \u0153 have in some orthographies, and the ligation
    then becomes a standard semantic distinction that may differentiate the pronunciation
    of e.g. \xE6 from ae.\r\n\r\nModern Greek provides a really nice example of the
    development of a digraph. In ancient Greek the letter \u03B2 was pronounced as
    a voiced bilabial plosive and so English tranliteration of classical texts always
    use the Latin b. But as the pronunciation of Greek changes, \u03B2 came to be
    pronounced as a voiced labiodental fricative (like English v). This left a phonemic
    gap in the Greek orthography for foreign words containing a voiced bilabial plosive,
    so a digraph convention was introduced and the sequence \u03BC\u03C0 is now used
    to transliterate the Latin b. This frequently confuses people trying to learn
    to read modern Greek, especially if they have some classical Greek education.
    I remember Beat Stamm at Microsoft being very surprised when he saw that the transliterated
    Greek name for Jeremy Tankard's Corbel typeface was \u039A\u03BF\u03C1\u03BC\u03C0\u03AD\u03BB."
  created: '2007-05-08 21:55:53'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "John, thanks for that. I see in re-reading my statement that not only did
    I have your meaning wrong but I butchered my sentence. It sounds like you also
    don't think that a variable width font would benfit by making any of the digraphs
    I listed above into special versions except for the Dutch IJ which is already
    supported by Unicode. I think I see why now too. In part, thanks to David.\r\n\r\nDavid,
    thanks for explaining the Cyrillic origin of many of the other digraphs!"
  created: '2007-05-09 19:51:58'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: /track
  created: '2010-02-20 12:25:56'
date: '2007-04-26 16:56:16'
title: Unicode Ligatures

---
