---
author:
  name: Linda Cunningham
  picture: 111784
body: "http://www.gothamist.com/2007/04/23/kick_map_finds.php\r\n\r\nYou can vote
  for the current version, the new one, or be really retro...."
comments:
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Truth is, there needs to be a link that shows the map in detail to really
    vote on it (preferrably as a PDF). In order for an NYC subway map to be functional,
    its gotta also be topographical.\r\n\r\nAnd preparing for the counterpoints to
    that argument\u2014 yes the Vignelli map is cool, and yes it works in London...But
    London is an easier city to navigate (as a pedestrian) than New York, and its
    smaller (including all 5 boroughs). Manhattan's difficult to get around if you
    live in New York\u2014 and we're not even going to talk about Queens and Brooklyn."
  created: '2007-04-27 03:57:44'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "The lack of detail is certainly one quibble I have with it, Terry, but it's
    an interesting example, eh?  ;-)  I meant to poke about to see if there's a PDF,
    but today's been rather busy.\r\n\r\nI love the Vignelli map for the Tube, and
    it isn't dissimilar to what we use here for our LRT (light rail transit), but
    I think being able to figure out what works best in which particular situation
    is a transient concept that depends on the location and the size of the area described."
  created: '2007-04-27 04:32:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No true typophile should miss any opportunity to strike down Vignelli.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-27 04:56:55'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Ah ah !\r\nOnce I found Mr Vignelli in my classroom when I was studying at
    Politecnico of Milan (there was obviously a great information system for students),
    and it was one of those days when you go to warm up the chair and talking sh\u0131t
    with your classmate, so there was Davide my buddy, and listening to Vignelli's
    presentation he said he was \"mamello maman,\" whatever that means, it was such
    a great laugh, I still laugh now."
  created: '2007-04-27 06:32:53'
- author:
    name: flowersandchocolate
  body: "Following the links through from the article it amazes me why people pine
    for an underground/subway map to be geographically correct. As a rule (and one
    with a lot of exceptions I realise) people who are going to use the underground
    start with a geographically correct map to find their destination, then find the
    geographically nearest station. Once you are in the underground/subway system
    all ordinairy sense of geography is lost, in fact in many London station all orientation
    dissapears by the time you've taken the many stairs and corridors to the platform.\r\n\r\nFrom
    limited personal experience I have to say I found the numbers on the existing
    NY subway map a little confusing. I think they put doubt in the mind of visitors
    - too much choice can be a bad thing. The London map is simpler; but then again
    so is the system!"
  created: '2007-04-27 13:01:12'
- author:
    name: flowersandchocolate
  body: "I knew there was something else...\r\n\r\nNew underground map for Madrid
    \u2013 discuss\r\n\r\nhttp://www.elpais.com/elpaismedia/ultimahora/media/200704/16/espana/20070416elpepunac_1.Pes.PDF.pdf\r\n\r\nFor
    my part, I was jealous of someone for getting to do this job till I saw the result!
    I've never been to Madrid, and I have no doubt this is very functional (the most
    important thing of course) but that doesn't mean there couldn't have been some
    style involved!"
  created: '2007-04-27 13:08:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Vignelli map for the Tube\r\n\r\nIIRC the London Tube map was conceived
    by an engineer inspired by electrical circuit diagrams, and has been further developed
    since. Vignelli didn't and doesn't have anything to do with it so far as I know.
    The influence I believe goes the other way round.    "
  created: '2007-04-27 13:42:28'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "There's really nothing wrong with the original map as far as functionality
    goes (disclaimer: I grew up in NYC and have used this map my whole life. Furthermore
    I have no problem at all with tourists getting lost and ending up in the south
    Bronx. In fact I wish all the tourists ended up in the south Bronx or just went
    back home). \r\n\r\nBut what has never been clear even to a native is the truly
    draconian scheduling - why some trains run only at rush hour or mysteriously terminate
    sometimes at certain stations or go local when they're supposed to be express
    (or vice versa). I'd give a prize to a map that could clearly let you know whether
    your train was in fact running when and where you think it is."
  created: '2007-04-27 13:48:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Patty,\r\nI think the current map sends all of your errant NYC tourists here
    to the Washington Metro. They get off in the middle of town, bewildered, looking
    for Time Square :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-27 13:55:35'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "You can keep them.\r\n\r\nIf you want confusing, try going back to the days
    or yore (the 70s) when the express was the A and the local was the AA. I lived
    on a local stop and would tell my friends MAKE SURE YOU TRANSFER TO THE AA AT
    59th ST and they'd get confused and end up on 125th street. This was long before
    Bill Clinton had an office up there.\r\n\r\nOf course there were fewer tourists
    back then what with the recession and Son of Sam and all. Ah the good old days."
  created: '2007-04-27 14:12:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">In fact I wish all the tourists ended up in the south Bronx or just went
    back home\r\n\r\nAh, New York. The first time I drove into Manhattan, to move
    my son into his apartment, I ignorantly turned right at a red light. A New Yorker
    saw my Virginia plates and shouted \"No turn on red! Welcome to New York--a**h***!\"\r\n\r\nIf
    we didn't have the natives telling all of us to go to hell (or the South Bronx--pretty
    much the same thing!) we wouldn't know what city we are in.  \r\n\r\nI love New
    York City. I lived there for a while, and would gladly again. \r\n\r\nHowever,
    when it comes to maps and signage, I think that telling the over <a href=\"http://www.nycvisit.com/content/index.cfm?pagePkey=57\">40
    million tourists</a> per year to take their 22+ billion dollars and both figuratively
    and literally get lost is a little shortsighted. "
  created: '2007-04-27 14:22:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it amazes me why people pine for an underground/subway\r\n> map to be geographically
    correct.\r\n\r\nThere's nothing amazing about that: we are physical creatures.
    And we\r\n[can] process a staggering richness of information, without even realizing.\r\n\r\nA
    previous discussion involving the London underground map:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/17631
    _\r\nMy wrench gets thrown in starting: 25 March, 2006 - 3:45pm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-27 14:32:58'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "An alternative to the Tube map showing times here\r\n\r\nhttp://www.oskarlin.com/2005/11/29/time-travel/\r\n\r\nAnd
    a history of Tube maps\r\n\r\nhttp://homepage.ntlworld.com/clivebillson/tube/tube.html\r\n\r\nI
    did post these were in an older thread*. \r\nIf there were no tourists nothing
    would drive Patty to come here and be ripped off.\r\n\r\nTim\r\n\r\n<em>{*edit:
    the thread that Hrant links to}</em>"
  created: '2007-04-27 14:39:53'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Tim, the last straw is they are tearing down Coney Island to make it more
    of a \"Vegas-style\" themed resort with condos etc. Why? Because tourists don't
    really go there. Which is, of course, why the natives love it so.\r\n\r\nAs an
    artist and designer it is frustrating to watch my edgy interesting city give way
    to a sanitized, mallicized, Disneyized place that only bankers can live in and
    tourists can love. While the artists are fleeing in droves because they can't
    afford to live here, or don't want (in their 30s and 40s) to once again pioneer
    a decrepid, borderline dangerous neighborhood with no services so that they can
    get priced out 10 years later when the bankers decide it's cool (c.f. Dumbo, W-burg,
    East Village).\r\n\r\nSo yeah, I'd like to stick it to the tourists. Sorry to
    be off-topic, but in truth we New Yorkers are used to our map and why introduce
    something that would only confuse us in order to help out-of-towners get around?"
  created: '2007-04-27 14:53:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Patricia is right on.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-27 15:19:23'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "The London Underground map was created by <a href=http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harry_Beck>Harry
    Beck</a href>. Don't know how Vignelli got credited. As much as I don't want to
    sound like a crochety old New Yorker\u2014 I agree with Patty in ways. I get annoyed
    with tourists when I come back to NY to visit.\r\n\r\nBut...I gotta say, when
    the locals have to ask you questions about the Subway\u2014 something needs to
    change. I can't tell you how many thick Brooklyn and Bronx accents I hear ask
    me for directions at Union Square...and that's even when I'm in town visiting."
  created: '2007-04-27 15:39:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "So Terry, how many tourists here ask you, \"Where is the Mall?\" :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-27 15:43:50'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: LOL! You know...for out of town suburbanites, that's an entire conversation!
    ;)
  created: '2007-04-27 15:49:08'
- author:
    name: flowersandchocolate
  body: But as a resident, how often do you consult the map in order to get round,
    and how many different routes do you use? It occurs to me that these maps are
    as much intended for visitors as for locals and I'm just interested to know how
    this theory fits in with reality.
  created: '2007-04-27 16:21:33'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Interesting, it only took me a few weeks to figure out the NY subway, but
    considerably longer to figure out the DC Metro, and I suspect that if I came back
    to visit, I'd still get turned around at Metro Centre but not in Times Square.
    \ ;-)\r\n\r\nNever lived in London or Paris, but didn't have a problem figuring
    out either the tube or M\xE9tro as a tourist, although I'm the first to agree
    that tourist needs are quite different from those of residents."
  created: '2007-04-27 16:23:21'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I use the subway map pretty regularly. But I'm not a Manhattan-centered local,
    I have a studio in Queens and lots of friends and family in Brooklyn, so I find
    myself using a pretty broad variety of subway lines, and often having to compare
    them to see which one will get me there faster and with fewer stops or fewer connections.
    It is probably simpler for a lot of people who mostly use it to get to work and
    back.\r\n\r\nNow, most tourists stick to Manhattan and how confusing can that
    be? The streets are mostly numbered as are a lot of the avenues. I can see getting
    lost downtown or in Brooklyn but you have to be pretty clueless to get lost in
    midtown, whether or not the subway map is geographically accurate.\r\n\r\nI will
    also add that most NYers are pretty helpful to lost tourists. We like being know-it-alls.
    I've even seen bidding wars - My route is better than your route! Don't listen
    to him, take this train! No, not that train, you have to change! But my train
    makes fewer stops!\r\n\r\nNothing but nothing beats the Berlin system where you
    can type in your address and your destination on a web site as well as the time
    you want to leave/get there and it gives you precise directions even to the minute.
    And then it's accurate!\r\n\r\nParis Metro is a snap."
  created: '2007-04-27 16:29:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Nothing but nothing beats the Berlin system where you can type in your
    address and your destination on a web site as well as the time you want to leave/get
    there and it gives you precise directions even to the minute. And then it\u2019s
    accurate!\"\r\n\r\nYou can do that on the DC Metro too Patty.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-27 16:35:29'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: And for both Calgary and Edmonton transit systems, although I find Calgary's
    doesn't do a very good job.  :-(  Heaven help tourons who think it really works....
  created: '2007-04-27 16:39:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">why introduce something that would only confuse us in order to help out-of-towners
    get around?\r\n\r\nTourists in fact would be less annoying if they had better
    maps and signage, and got lost less often.\r\n\r\nI'm not advocating the map noted
    here. I am advocating that signage and maps be useful to both locals and visitors.\r\n\r\n>I'd
    like to stick it to the tourists. \r\n\r\nPatty, would a cadre of NYC natives
    armed with bamboo poles to beat the tourists about the head as they come out of
    the bridges and tunnels do? :) "
  created: '2007-04-27 16:41:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Tourists in fact would be less annoying if they had better maps and signage\r\n\r\nTourists
    are not annoying because they ask for directions - in fact that's one of the few
    endearing things about them. Tourists are annoying because they see a destination
    through the eyes of a consumer, in effect becoming cultural pillagers. Because
    they're bred to consume. Just like all good livestock.\r\n\r\nWhat's \"shortsighted\"
    William is blind capitalism.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-27 16:53:51'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "As someone who grew up in America but has immigrated to NYC, I never had
    any problems getting used to the existing subway map. I've found it very helpful
    that I can match it up approximately to real geography, because I'm generally
    trying to figure out how to get to some particular place, rather than trying to
    grasp the overall topology of the system. That's why I think the existing focus
    on nodes (with less clarity for lines) is better than the focus on lines (with
    less clarity for nodes) in this new map. Plus, as Patty says, only half the lines
    actually function at any given time anyway, so why put the emphasis on the lines?
    :)\r\n\r\n<cite>I\u2019m not advocating the map noted here. I am advocating that
    signage and maps be useful to both locals and visitor</cite>\r\nThe signage has
    gotten a lot better actually. Fifteen years ago the same line might have signs
    in different places calling it the IRT local, the Broadway line, the 7th Avenue
    line, or the South Ferry train. At least now they consistently use the numbers/letters
    instead. The signs, that is. People, when giving directions to tourists, don't
    necessarily :)"
  created: '2007-04-27 17:06:50'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "<cite>Tourists in fact would be less annoying if they had better maps and
    signage, and got lost less often.</cite>\r\n\r\nTourists would be less annoying
    if they obeyed the rules of the road (keep moving, walk fast, no eye-contact,
    no stopping in the middle of the sidewalk, etc.). It is funny to see them patiently
    waiting for the light to change, tho.\r\n\r\nI'll shut up. I just hate that NY
    has become some sort of themed mall of itself.\r\n\r\nAnd one more thing - what
    would really help both tourists and locals would be better and easier-to-find
    neighborhood maps near the subway exits. Without the WTC to orient ourselves it
    can get very confusing when you EXIT the train in an unfamiliar neighborhood."
  created: '2007-04-27 17:11:48'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>But as a resident, how often do you consult the map in order to get round,
    and how many different routes do you use?</em>\r\n\r\nWhen I lived there, pretty
    frequently actually. Regardless of whether I know where I'm going (to work, to
    the grocery store, etc.) there are always places that I will need to know how
    to get to. The far east and west sides of Manhattan aren't easy to navigate, particularly
    because there aren't subway lines in some parts! So when getting off the subway
    you have to know what train to take and where to walk to get there! It was often
    my above ground map as well...I have heard many other people argue the same point.\r\n\r\n<em>Now,
    most tourists stick to Manhattan and how confusing can that be? The streets are
    mostly numbered as are a lot of the avenues.</em>\r\nHow about Broadway? ;) And
    let's not forget that East and West 59th (for example) are very different. Omit
    those and see how easy it is to find your spot on \"59th street.\" I've learned
    the most about Manhattan by being lost there! :)"
  created: '2007-04-27 17:26:42'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: ROFL!  I remember the first week I was there, and got off the subway two stops
    early (east-side IRT, and I was heading to City Hall) -- found myself walking
    along Bowery.  Pretty scary stuff in the early 80s....  ;-)
  created: '2007-04-27 17:36:11'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: You should see it now - gleaming glass & steel condo hi-rises, CBGB closed
    & moving to Vegas and a bar called Bowery Mission right next to the real Bowery
    mission. Flop houses mostly gone altho the restaurant supply stores still hang
    on in Chinatown.
  created: '2007-04-27 17:47:58'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>sigh</em>  Yeah, why am I not surprised?  I saw a piece on CNN about
    closing down CBGB's and remembered the couple of times I went there -- I don't
    think my hearing's ever recovered.\r\n\r\nThe last time I was in town -- um, Thanksgiving
    1996, I guess -- we took a drive through my old 'hood (164/Union Turnpike, Queens),
    and it was amazing how much it hadn't changed, even down to the wonderful little
    Chinese takeout, the store where I used to get my Sunday Times, and even the Dunkin
    Donuts, although you could tell it was on the fast-tracked cusp to \"trendy.\"
    \ \r\n\r\nBet it is now.... "
  created: '2007-04-27 17:58:56'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>CBGB closed & moving to Vegas</em>\r\n\r\nGood. CBGB's was not what it
    used to be. When you have to pay $10 for a beer IN A BOTTLE (from a brewery less
    than 2 miles away mind you) in a dump that's never cleaned...its time to call
    it quits.  \r\n\r\nCBGB's tried to survive on its name alone. With the prices
    they charge for covers and drinks...it might as well be in Vegas. It ain't worth
    it. CBGBs became a tourist only spot.\r\n\r\nI understand there's a personal connection
    for a lot of people, but after seeing enough shows there, I've got no love for
    the place. I'm sure my opinion would be different if I had seen the Ramones there
    though."
  created: '2007-04-27 23:06:57'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: ":-)  Or Debbie Harry.  \r\n"
  created: '2007-04-27 23:12:43'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Or Talking Heads :^)
  created: '2007-04-27 23:51:23'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: oooohhhh.  Same as it ever was, Tiff.  ;-)
  created: '2007-04-28 00:56:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">CBGB\r\n\r\nWhen I heard <a href=\"http://theflowband.com/\">this band</a>
    play there, I thought the place really rocked. "
  created: '2007-04-28 02:06:34'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "CBGBs was not a place most people would choose in the early 1980s I only
    went there to see friends bands usually ones that were not known. The popular
    bands of that day were mostly English. \r\n\r\nThe Bowery was run down, and the
    East Village much more interesting than it is now. I always use to say I liked
    living in NYC because it was like a shopping mall. Well now it's even more like
    that. \r\n\r\nI have a 1979 version of the NYC subway system which was printed
    in 1976 .\r\n\r\nCBGBs what a name Country, Bluegrass and Blues... I don't think
    much of that there.\r\n\r\nDanceteria was the place to be in the early 1980s.
    My friend Audrey had a cat fight on the stairs with Madonna and Audrey kicked
    her behind, Madge tried to use a red stilleto in the fight but didn't have a chance.
    \r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/groups/danceteria/pool/\r\n\r\nhttp://launch.groups.yahoo.com/group/danceterianyc/"
  created: '2007-04-28 08:35:09'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">Tourists would be less annoying if they obeyed the rules of the road (keep
    moving, walk fast, no eye-contact, no stopping in the middle of the sidewalk,
    etc.)\r\n\r\nLondon too, but the problem is more ours \u2013 people rushing to
    work, time is money etc \u2013 never taking the time to revel in the area or even
    look upward; what annoys me about tourists are the sort who, when visiting, say,
    Stonehenge, stay in the coach, take pictures and leave thinking they have <em>done</em>
    another item on the list (Hrant\u2019s cultural pillagers, I suppose).\r\n\r\nThe
    Tube does have a journey planner if you are visiting, probably wildly optimistic
    in timing.\r\nhttp://tfl.gov.uk/\r\n\r\nI was hoping Vince\u2019s link would lead
    to pictures of the fight, but a nice reminder of Cindy Sherman :)\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-04-28 13:11:27'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Well my friend Charlene has some old photos of Madonna and Boy George taken
    at DT and other places in NYC, but you have to be a member to see them. There
    are pictures of Audrey on the Yahoo group site. She had the hair and look of Annabella
    Lwin from BowWowWow.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/9ed5_5341.jpg]\r\nAudrey
    vs Madonna (Audrey wins!) "
  created: '2007-04-28 13:51:57'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>Danceteria was the place to be in the early 1980s. </em>\r\n\r\nGeez,
    I remember that place.  ;-)  Studio 54 was going downhill pretty fast by the time
    I actually made it in the front door.\r\n\r\n<em>what annoys me about tourists
    are the sort who, when visiting, say, Stonehenge, stay in the coach, take pictures
    and leave thinking they have done another item on the list </em>\r\n\r\nWe get
    a lot of that here, particularly up in the mountains -- Lake Louise is probably
    the worst.  Tourons get off bus, stream along pathway to lake, take pictures,
    flow back to bus, bus leaves: 30 minutes, tops.  <em>brrrrrrr</em> \r\n\r\nScary
    stuff...."
  created: '2007-04-28 15:37:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And Vegas is the next level: to save the money and avoid the hassles, instead
    of going all the way to France (where they don't even speak English!), NYC, Egypt
    or Italy, you just hit one o' thems fancy caseeeenos! I mean, the least they could
    do is run an extraordinary rendition program at the Luxor for the worst offenders...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-28 16:09:02'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Danceteria rocked but Area was the place to be.\r\n\r\nBut seeing Andy Warhol
    chatting up Grace Jones at Studio 54 was kinda fun too.\r\n\r\nI haven't been
    to CBs in years. But I'm sad it closed. Therein lies the paradox, you move on
    and hope the places you supported in earlier, different times will hang on and
    still make the city feel like it's yours. I realize it's the nature of the beast
    and that's not all bad, but I just don't like the direction things are moving
    in. Coney Island being destroyed for condos.\r\n\r\nI'd be happy if the tourists
    went to New York New York in Vegas and left my city alone. They wouldn't know
    the difference anyway..."
  created: '2007-04-28 16:55:28'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "well Area was good but it was a bit too posh and fashion drugs, they had
    not men or woman toilets, one was more women though and one was more men. but
    you could go in either.\r\n\r\nScavullo did a photo shoot at Area I do remember.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/si_5736.jpg]\r\nJanet
    Jones Gretsky\r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/93279914@N00/19403072/in/set-457867/\r\n\r\nhow's
    that for typography ironic?\r\n\r\nI've got a Studio 54 , 45 of BowWowWow and
    it's on DT flickr group. \r\nI saw Malaria and Heaven 17 there during the reopening.
    \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/295250023_ae46b09291_3573.jpg]"
  created: '2007-04-28 21:00:31'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Never was a BowWowWow fan -- <a href=\"http://www.vamp.org/Siouxsie/Text/split-pr.html\">Siouxsie
    and the Banshees</a> were much more my style.\r\n\r\n<em>Siouxsie and the Banshees\r\n1976-1996\r\nR.I.P.</em>"
  created: '2007-04-29 05:13:29'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Heaven 17 you mean - right? Whose name was taken famously from the film 'a
    clockwork orange'.
  created: '2007-04-29 05:20:16'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Well, you're the first one to mention them....  \r\n\r\n<em>FWIW, I was much
    more interested in New Romantic groups like Spandau Ballet.</em>"
  created: '2007-04-29 05:37:25'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "yes.. Heaven 17 it was and I remember finding glitter for years somewhere
    either on the floor or in boxes or something from the show, it just got everywhere
    and got carried home.\r\n\r\nhmm Linda, did you see the Cure at the Ritz with
    Ministry and the Banshees at the Beacon Theatre with Robert Smith on Guitar? And
    Siouxie sang Kish Kash on the Basement Jaxx CD a few years ago.\r\n\r\n\"her name
    is \"Rio\" she was dancing on my ceiling...\"\r\n\r\nhttp://www.vincentconnare.com
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-29 10:42:06'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Area had the rotating art installations. The Tunnel had the truly scary bathrooms.
    Nice thing about growing up in NYC was high school pals working doors and bars
    at VIP rooms in clubs thus getting access normally denied young peons.\r\n\r\nSeeing
    David Byrne doing karaoke (my first time ever seeing karaoke) at the tunnel in
    the 80s was da bomb. He sang 16 Tons and Whole Lotta Love. \r\n\r\nAlways liked
    hearing music at the Cat Club and the old Ritz, the old Knit. I was never lucky
    enuf to see the real good bands at CBs (mostly saw friends bands) but did catch
    up with some of them at the Dr. Pepper concert series in the park when I was in
    high school. Too cheap/broke to buy tix, we'd sit outside and listen and smoke
    pot.\r\n\r\nFor female singers of a certain era nobody beats Patti Smith and she's
    still bringing down the house."
  created: '2007-04-29 20:16:16'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Nah, I missed that show (haven't seen the Cure live, actually), used to catch
    Siouxie at CBGB's, though....
  created: '2007-04-29 21:00:39'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Subway systems of the world relative scale \r\n\r\nhttp://www.fakeisthenewreal.org/subway/index.html"
  created: '2007-05-05 18:24:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey, they forgot about the Yerevan metro!  ;-)\r\nhttp://www.urbanrail.net/as/yere/yerevan-map.gif
    _\r\nActually though it has some great lettering, is a life-saver during\r\nthe
    humid summer heat, and is dirt cheap (9 cents a ride in 2000).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-05 18:45:42'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Linda, great link (subway systems of the world). Love the Moscow Spider. And
    it's St. Petersburg mini me counterpart.
  created: '2007-05-05 19:17:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That diagram doesn't do justice to the glory of the Moscow metro.\r\nAnd
    in 2000 it was 15 cents a ride.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-05 20:19:50'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: Thanks, Patty -- I stumbled across it on <a href="http://www.designobserver.com">Design
    Observer</a>, where there's a great article by Alice Twemlow on books at the moment.
  created: '2007-05-06 00:48:40'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Coney Island being destroyed for condos.</em>\r\n\r\nThat is so frickin'
    sad...  :-("
  created: '2007-05-06 04:58:11'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Hrant, that Yerevan metro is related to the Helsinki one\r\n\r\nhttp://www.hel.fi/wps/wcm/resources/image/468b2dd4ec02c25a/metro_2007_net.jpg"
  created: '2007-05-06 13:01:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-06 14:08:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Now THIS is a nice metro map:\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/aticolunatico/4073439289/sizes/l/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-04 17:10:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ":-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-11-04 17:16:19'
date: '2007-04-27 01:02:43'
node_type: forum
title: Finding your way on the MTA (NYC subway)

---
