---
author:
  name: kris
body: "Is there any original reference to the term? Who made it up? Does anyone still
  use it?\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
comments:
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Wikipedia says \"from the 1400s through the victorian era, typesetting was
    referred to as the \"black art\".\"\r\n\r\nPerhaps is has to do with ink...\r\n\r\nLooks
    like it... also from Wiipedia\r\n\r\n\"In Germany, the art of typesetting was
    termed the \"black art\" in allusion to the ink-covered printers.\""
  created: '2007-04-29 07:33:57'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Interesting. I thought that \"the black art\" referred to type design rather
    than typesetting. \r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-04-29 08:53:13'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "If you want to read  <em>Fust and his Friends</em> by Robert Browning (Gutenberg's
    former partner, Faust was called the Devil with the ink-bottle -> the black art)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-29 09:53:15'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "In Germany we speak about the Black and the White Art:\r\n\"Von der Schwarzen
    und der Wei\xDFen Kunst\".\r\nThe Black Art is printing, the White Art is paper
    production.\r\n\r\nhttp://cgi.zvab.com/SESSz133977815711177842305/cgi-bin/n_xsearch.cgi?uc=de&shp=0&dcurr=EUR&noimg=0&lang=de&term=von+der+schwarzen+und+der+wei%DFen+kunst&days=--\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-29 11:27:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Is there a connection to \"Black Art\" as in alchemy, sorcery, and witchcraft
    along the way?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-29 12:53:14'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "no that is the Dark Arts at Hogwarts School. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hogwarts_subjects#Defence_Against_the_Dark_Arts\r\n "
  created: '2007-04-29 14:11:39'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks Georg!\r\n\r\nChris, probably the phrase 'black art' as you & I know
    it is an English specific literary/poetic device coined by an overwrought romantic
    Victorian. Or something similar. I'll look into it."
  created: '2007-04-29 21:05:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "There is also this\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Printer's_devil\r\n\r\nI
    suspect that there is no simple answer. Still I will see if I can find an origin
    point."
  created: '2007-04-29 21:21:47'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "My Prof pal says:\r\n\r\n\"The OED's first example is from Christopher Marlowe's
    Faust in 1591: \"I have heard strange report of thy knowledge in the black art\".
    \ Obsolete usage from the same time period:  lock-picking.  \"I can set downe
    the subtiltie of the blacke Art, which is picking of lockes\".\""
  created: '2007-04-29 23:42:55'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Thanks Eben! So \"The Black Art\" does not refer to type design at all?\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2007-04-30 00:47:05'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> \u201CThe OED\u2019s first example is from Christopher Marlowe\u2019s Faust
    in 1591\r\n\r\n\r\nThis is not right. The first one was in 1587 --  Frankfurt
    am Main  --  Das Faustbuch' (The Faust Book). That  inspired Christopher Marlowe
    to write the play 'The Tragicall History of D Faustus' .\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-30 00:54:59'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "David: My pal has reminded me that \"the OED doesn't necessarily present
    the \"first usage\" of a word, but does try to track significant examples of \"original\"
    usage.\"\r\n\r\nKris, clearly there is some prescedent for associating the phrase
    'The black art' with <cite>printing</cite>. I don't see anything that associates
    type design per se with \"the black Art\". Of course type design is pretty useless
    without printing but they are not the same thing. I think the distiction is valid. "
  created: '2007-04-30 06:57:15'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: 'See that thread: http://typophile.com/node/1702'
  created: '2007-04-30 23:38:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "There are many things which even a dedicated scholar cannot completely reveal.
    Some things were never that clear and some facts are simply lost. But I do like
    John's reminder in that thread of yet another meaning. He says: <cite>\r\n\r\n\"
    So just why did the Church refer to printing as the \"Black Arts\". \r\n\r\nDid
    the term originate in the Church? Where and when? The term black art is used even
    today, in reference to anything that is understood only by initiates. At a recent
    Unicode conference, one of the text encoding gurus referred to digital type development
    as 'something of a black art'. He was not suggesting that there was anything negative,
    let alone diabolical, about type design, only that it was something that the majority
    of people don't understand very well. \" </cite>\r\n\r\nWhat aspect or idea were
    you hoping to point to David?"
  created: '2007-05-01 00:49:53'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Ye Olde Webster's Ninth New Collegiate Dictionary sez...\r\n\r\n<strong>black
    art</strong> <em>n</em> (1590): magic practiced by or as if by conjurers and witches"
  created: '2007-05-01 04:54:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It might mean a pun on that Ricardo. Black ink might have been used in a
    black art to achieve the magic of the written word casting its spell on the masses.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-05-01 12:55:52'
- author:
    name: Christian Barca
    picture: 112373
  body: "Black Art has to do with printing and Pre press. In Switzerland, Typographers
    and Printers get a certificate in Black Art when they graduate, but first they
    throw them in a fountain to baptise' em.\r\n\r\nIt's a tratitional term. "
  created: '2007-05-01 14:04:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "In the ink fountain? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-05-01 14:06:30'
- author:
    name: Christian Barca
    picture: 112373
  body: "Yes sure!\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-01 14:09:43'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Hey Chris,\r\n\r\nYeah, I wasn't taking that definition literally. :-) When
    I was at university, one of my profs told us that printing was known as \"the
    black art\" in its early years. I like the church reference made above too, because
    I'm sure the catholic church felt threatened by the \"spell\" printing cast on
    the masses...  :-)\r\n\r\nAnd now if you'll excuse me, I have to go change a toner
    cartridge.  ;-D"
  created: '2007-05-01 15:44:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I have to go change a toner cartridge\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!!\r\n\r\nThings have
    not changed so much afterall :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-05-01 17:47:27'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I am am making paint today with red pigment ( really!) and painting with
    it. I might get a little colored in the process. Does that make it a 'red art'?
    I am all for poetics & history but there is some part of this which is just silly.\r\n\r\nNice
    posts Christian!"
  created: '2007-05-01 18:57:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"there is some part of this which is just silly.\"\r\n\r\nYup! :-P\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-05-01 19:03:24'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Wikipedia has <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Printer's_devil\">an
    entry for the term \"printer's devil\"</a> which also talks about printing being
    called a \"black art\"... It mentions three possible sources for the association...\r\n\r\nBack
    then, black cats were thought to be related to witchcraft, too, if I'm not mistaken.
    So maybe \"black\" meant mysterious or evil rather than covered in ink -- but
    who can really say?"
  created: '2007-05-02 00:52:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Black is as old as Night.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-02 01:25:54'
- author:
    name: Hiroshige
  body: "Black is as old as Fright.\r\n\r\n_________\r\nHiro"
  created: '2007-05-02 04:57:08'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Kris\r\n\r\nThe OED is really your only reliable reference for word origins.
    \r\n\r\nThe Wikipedia, well, test it once with a topic you really know something
    about. Dismal. Don't know much about a topic, it will do.\r\n\r\nPrinting was
    termed the black art. Don't know the origins. There were at least two journals
    with that title that focused on printing history.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2007-05-02 05:06:10'
- author:
    name: Ken Messenger
    picture: 111387
  body: I wasn't previously aware of "the black art" term being applied to printing
    and/or type design. But the Catholic church connecting printing to evil makes
    sense considering it's influence in spreading the words/ideas of Martin Luther.
  created: '2007-05-02 22:02:13'
- author:
    name: sihep
    picture: 112339
  body: "Antoine Augereau was burnt for heresy but it was apparently a big political
    stitch-up rather actual devil worshiping.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.fr/Ma\xEEtre-Garamond-Augereau-imprimeur-libraire/dp/2253109959\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-03 01:08:55'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Hey, look, here's a book that mentions it: <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/reader/0785250328/ref=sib_books_ref/002-6095768-5697627?ie=UTF8&keywords=%22black%20art%22%2C%20printing&v=search-inside\">excerpt
    courtesy of Amazon</a>.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-03 02:14:48'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Ricardo : It seems that for these folk who were concerned about books getting
    made too easily, communication being made too easy was the thing to worry about.
    So the logical extensions are the 'black arts' of letter writing, faxing, emailing,
    web site making, IMing, p2ping, texting, handwaiving, eyebrow raising and let
    us not forget - smoke signals. \r\n\r\nYes? \r\n\r\nSUCH nice people! ;-)"
  created: '2007-05-03 06:40:38'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>SUCH nice people! ;-)</em>\r\n\r\nHeh-heh."
  created: '2007-05-04 01:40:03'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "\"But the Catholic church connecting printing to evil makes sense considering
    it\u2019s influence in spreading the words/ideas of Martin Luther.\"\r\n\r\nThis
    does need to be said. Martin Luther was a Catholic, to his dying day. He was not
    a proponent of the use of the printing press in spreading his \"word.\"\r\n\r\nThe
    Catholic church did not connect printing to evil. It was the sponsor for, and
    proponent of, the development of \"mechanical writing.\"\r\n\r\nFor Christ sakes.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2007-05-04 06:28:28'
- author:
    name: Ken Messenger
    picture: 111387
  body: "My point was strictly conjecture, and I don't wish to get into any theological
    debate, but it is clear that Luther's 'words' did inspire the Reformation and
    the development of Lutheran and other Protestant sects of Christianity.\r\n\r\nfer
    criminy sake."
  created: '2007-05-04 18:53:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "\"The mystery thrown over the operations of a Type foundry [says Vincent
    Figins II in 1855] within my own recollection (thirty-four years), and the still
    greater secrecy which had existed in my father's experience, testifies that the
    art had been perpetuated by a kind of Druidic or Masonic induction from the first.
    \ An anecdote of my father's early struggles may illustrate this.  At the death
    of Mr. Joseph Jackson, whom my father had served ten years as apprentice and foreman,
    there was in progress for the University Press of Oxford a new fount of Double
    Pica Greek, which had progressed under my father's entire management.  The then
    delegates of that Press--the Rev. Dr. Randolph and the Rev. W. Jackson--suggested
    that Mr. Figgins should finish the fount himself.  This, with other offers of
    support from those who had previously known him, was the germ of his prosperity
    (which was always gratefully acknowledged).  But when he had undertaken this work,
    the difficulty presented iteself that he did not know where to find the punch-cutter.
    \ No one knew his address; but he was supposed to be a tall man, who came in a
    mysterious way occasionally, whose name no one knew, but he went by the <em>sobriquet</em>
    of <em>'The Black Man'</em>.  This old gentleman, a very clever mechanic, lived
    to be a pensioner on my father's bounty--gratitude is perhaps the better word.
    \ I knew him and could never understand the origin of his <em>sobriquet</em>,
    unless Black was meant for dark, mysterious, from the manner of his coming and
    going from Mr. Jackson's foundry.\"\r\n--quoted in T.B. Reed's <em>A History of
    the Old English Letter Foundries</em>"
  created: '2007-05-04 19:25:18'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Q: Who knows what darkness lurks in the hearts of men?\r\n\r\nA: The Printer
    knows.\r\n\r\n;-)"
  created: '2007-05-05 01:26:24'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Ken\r\n\r\nTrue enough about the \"influence\" of Luther. But conjecturing
    on \"evil\" is theological.\r\n\r\n\r\nGerald\r\n\r\n\"self-excommunicated\" Missouri
    Synod Luthern"
  created: '2007-05-05 06:02:35'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Nick, that was awesome. :-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-05 23:18:50'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "My ITU lessons in printing put it down to the church's opposition to there
    being large amounts of bibles in circulation, where before the onset of printing
    bibles and other works were available only to the wealthy and the church. They
    realized that books would be availbale to the masses.\r\n\r\nAdditionall they
    could see that printing was going to make scribal work completely unncessarey.\r\n\r\nOnce
    printing was in full flower it was only a matter of a few decades before literacy
    spread over Europe, and at the same time books were printed in other than strictly
    Latin.\r\n\r\nThose opposed to change dubbed it the Black Art, suggesting that
    it was the work of the devil. In the early years printers were thrown into prison
    and some were executed.\r\n\r\nJim [img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2007-05-05 23:38:45'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Jim\r\n\r\nITU probably isn't the best source.\r\n\r\nA bible prior to printing
    would have cost the equivalent of 1.5 million dollars in today's money. They were
    only available to nobility and the church because no one else had any money whatsoever.\r\n\r\nThe
    development of Western printing also did two other things. Immediately, the block
    book was introduced, which provided access to whoever who wanted at a very low
    price. Which resulted in the decline of printing as represented by B42 and the
    Mainz Psalter. Also, it raised the price of the manuscript book (\"scribal work\"),
    which became the high end in the market for over a century. It did not in any
    way immediately eliminate the work of the scribe.\r\n\r\nThe dubbing of the Black
    Art thing, is really questionable. Printers were thrown into prison and executed,
    along with any others who violated the laws of the time. Very little to do with
    the devil, unless you were in Spain or France. Then it hardly mattered what your
    crime was.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2007-05-06 04:56:29'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Robert\r\n\r\nThe Inquisition, in Spain, began in 1492, an interesting date
    don't you think? The day Columbus sailed all Jews had to be out of Spain. Guess
    what he had on board?\r\n\r\nGerald\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-06 05:36:06'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Tell us! :-) A printed bible? A press?
  created: '2007-05-06 19:31:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Eben, pay attention man - he means Jews!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-06 19:33:20'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "All very interesting, thanks folks. Would the \"public\" consider printing
    to be the black art these days, or would type design be more of a contemporary
    black art?\r\n\r\n\u2014K "
  created: '2007-05-06 22:58:15'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "\"ITU probably isn't the best source.\"\r\n\r\n\"We [Bureau of Education,
    International Typographical Union] are indebted to the research work of John Clyde
    Oswald, Bruce Rogers, Walter Dorwin Teague, William Edwin Rudge, Douglas C. McMurtrie,
    Walter C. Blelock, Henry Lewis Bullen, Wallace Rice, Gustave Enald Hult, N.J.
    Werner, Metropoolitan Museum of Art, The Inland Printer, The American Printer,
    and the Bulletin Official of Paris, for the material appearing in the first three
    lesson bearing on the history of the art.\"\r\n\r\n(but not such a bad source,
    all considered)\r\n\r\nJim[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2007-05-07 00:27:58'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "A bit back dated Jim. There have, ahem, been recent developments in the research.\r\n\r\nGerald\r\n\r\nThe
    Bieler Press\r\nhttp://BielerPress.blogspot.com"
  created: '2007-05-07 07:12:13'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Hrant\r\n\r\nYeah, this is from Simon Wiesenthal, \"the Nazi Hunter,\" in
    his writings on Columbus. \r\n\r\nColumbus was a converso, so had affiliation.
    I have a copy of a map he drew of the New World (the first) that was sent to his
    son, with the special code \"sign.\"\r\n\r\nBut I was in error, while the \"uncoverted\"
    Jews were expurgated in 1492, the Inquisition in Spain began twelve years earlier.
    \r\n\r\nI've never been able to find the connection but it was suggested once
    that the trial and execution of Joan of Arc 1431 had some kind of impact (socially/culturally)
    on the development of printing.\r\n\r\nGerald\r\n\r\nThe Bieler Press\r\nhttp://BielerPress.blogspot.com"
  created: '2007-05-07 07:43:12'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Kris\r\n\r\nOh yeah. To get back to you. No, the \"black art\" is an obsolete
    term. It would have originally referred to printing in some regard rather than
    type design. \r\n\r\nType wasn't even referred to as such until the early 18th
    century. Moxon never used the word type, he called them letters. And just who
    would have qualified as the first \"type designer\"? Schoeffer or Griffo or ?\r\n\r\nGerald\r\n\r\n\r\nThe
    Bieler Press\r\nhttp://BielerPress.blogspot.com"
  created: '2007-05-07 09:01:43'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "Yeah, Gerald, I have come to realize that I am also dated.\r\n\r\nYou will
    have no further bother me.\r\n\r\nJim[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2007-05-07 14:26:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I wonder what Wiesenthal's motivation was...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-07 14:35:04'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Hi Jim\r\n\r\nHardly. I was fortunate enough to see your book at Richard's
    table during CODEX. Very impressive. If my sales would have been much better I'd
    have picked it up for sure.\r\n\r\nA little posting blather is not something to
    be all that concerned about.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nThe Bieler Press\r\nhttp://BielerPress.blogspot.com"
  created: '2007-05-07 17:57:41'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Hrant\r\n\r\nInvestigation? Lineage? Historical accuracy?\r\n\r\nCan't recall.\r\n\r\nGerald\r\n\r\n\r\nThe
    Bieler Press\r\nhttp://BielerPress.blogspot.com"
  created: '2007-05-07 17:59:53'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Yeah Jim! \r\n\r\nKeep on postin'..."
  created: '2007-05-08 08:24:23'
- author:
    name: Jhazline_20
  body: Edit ( spam )
  created: '2008-05-09 09:32:01'
date: '2007-04-29 07:04:02'
title: Where does the term "The Black Art" come from?

---
