---
author:
  name: kiko
  picture: 112433
body: "hello people from typophile\r\ni\xB4m looking for any opinion on this cause
  i\xB4ve never done this kind of work before...\r\n\r\nit looks like the curve of
  the bottom leg it\xB4s not looking very good to me, i just can\xB4t make it look
  smooth enough. Im getting the impression that its more dificult to control this
  on thin weights, cause the bolder weights seemed fine...\r\n\r\nif it matters, i\xB4m
  drawing shapes on fonlab\r\nall apreciations are welcome, \r\n\r\nthanks in advance\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/s_3494.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: kiko
    picture: 112433
  body: "sorry for the huge size\r\n\r\nfirst time posting an image..."
  created: '2007-04-29 18:32:48'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: http://briem.ismennt.is/2/2.3.6a/2.3.6.02.curves.htm
  children:
  - author:
      name: kiko
      picture: 112433
    body: "thanks for the reply\r\n\r\ni\xB4ve trided that, but it seems to me that
      inserting new points will change the previous shape... even if its only a bit\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-04-29 19:14:48'
  created: '2007-04-29 18:45:08'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: please take a (smaller) screenshot of your s, with beizer handles, maybe then
    we can see whats wrong
  children:
  - author:
      name: kiko
      picture: 112433
    body: "ok, here it goes...\r\nmy problem is... if i change the overal shape because
      of the new points i may insert, i\xB4ll have to make those changes to all the
      other weights, right?\r\n\r\nthanks in advance for all the sugestions...[img:sites/default/files/old-images/s1_5271.jpg]"
    created: '2007-04-29 21:16:20'
  created: '2007-04-29 19:54:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Not [exactly] what you're having trouble with, but some of your point placement
    is problematic: your top-left and bottom-right curves are using off-extrema points;
    same with the two tips of the terminals, although these can probably be safely
    left as-is; and the inside points of the topmost and bottommost curves are missing
    a BCP on one side. (Actually the top one has one, but it's stunted.)\r\n\r\nThe
    off-extrema stuff probably happened because\r\nyou mechanically slanted upright
    originals.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-29 21:52:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> its more dificult to control this on thin weights\r\n\r\nYyyup. That's
    because the two outlines are closer so it's easier to see unevenness. For a thin,
    monoline, \"constructed\" design very often it's useful to start from a skeleton*
    and do an expand-stroke, although that does entail a lot of subsequent clean-up,
    especially at terminals and [non-perpendicular] intersections.\r\n\r\n* Which
    is not to say that I think seeing letters are expanded\r\nskeletons is at all
    optimal in type design - quite the contrary.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: kiko
      picture: 112433
    body: "thanks a lot hrant for your reply...\r\nmy point is... i have no problem
      in rearanging points and curves on this particular weight or in some glyphs,
      but in that case, woundln\xB4t i be messing around with the consistency of the
      whole family?\r\nShoulndn\xB4t the points of a caracter in all weights (thin
      to black) be aranged in-line?\r\n\r\nsorry if i\xB4m not making any sense, \xED\xB4m
      new to all of this, and my english its poor to...\r\n\r\nthanks again "
    created: '2007-04-29 22:40:21'
  created: '2007-04-29 21:58:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If you're interpolating (which is actually a generally very useful thing)
    then yes it's important to have full consistency of point placement, order, etc.
    Otherwise it's pretty secondary.\r\n\r\nAlso, some glyphs in some weights will
    in fact sometimes need their points to be different; the [not supremely elegant]
    solution to this when it comes to interpolation is to put equivalent \"dummy\"
    points in those glyphs for every weight, even though they might not affect the
    actual resultant outlines [much].\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: kiko
      picture: 112433
    body: "ok, i think i see what you mean...\r\nanyway, sorry about my ignorance,
      but what does interpolating means at all? Does it had something to do with blending
      glyph outlines? I was told, that tool was the best way to generate various weights
      in a font, and the most practical way of doing it...\r\n\r\n "
    created: '2007-04-29 23:16:52'
  created: '2007-04-29 23:03:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, blending.\r\nAnd you can even extrapolate.\r\n\r\nGuys, where's that
    thread where various people explain how\r\nthey go about applying interpolation
    as optimally as possible?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-29 23:44:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://typophile.com/node/7076 _\r\nhttp://typophile.com/wiki/family_how-to\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-29 23:45:45'
- author:
    name: kiko
    picture: 112433
  body: "thanks a lot hrant for your tips, never thought typophile forums could be
    so helpfull.\r\n\r\n...lot to study and test now :)\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-30 00:02:59'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Slide the point at the bottom of the S to the right. Adjust the length of
    the two bezier handles on the segment just left of that point. You just have to
    fiddle with them and look at them until they are smooth. It might also be necessary
    to adjust other bezier handles nearby to get everything to balance. Smoothness
    comes when the handles are balanced and when the on-curve points are ideally located
    on the curve. I'll repeat Hrant's suggestion to pull the bezier handles out of
    the inside curves at top and bottom. \r\n\r\nThose features (terminals of SCGscert)
    are notoriously difficult to control. \r\n\r\nFor this shape you may find you
    need the straight segment in the middle to be shorter. Straight segments can be
    obvious unless you use ample space for the transition to curves (tangent point)."
  created: '2007-04-30 17:05:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "As Hrant and Carl have said, you can often improve a curve by making the
    handles between Bezier nodes more equal. \r\n\r\nHere are useful three features
    in FontLab you can use to work on the curve.\r\n\r\n1. To slide a point as Carl
    recommends: first shift, then click and hold on the Bezier node you want to slide.
    This will drag the node while keeping the handles fixed. Very useful for taking
    out lumps.  \r\n\r\n2. As I learned recently, you can also keep the nodes in place
    by shifting, then clicking and holding on the curve. This will move the handles
    around while keeping the nodes in place.   \r\n\r\n3. You can shift then click
    and hold on a Bezier handle. Then you can slide the handle while the node and
    angle of the handle remain the same. \r\n\r\nDoing these three separately I have
    found useful, as you learn what does what, and start to get a feel of what to
    use when. \r\n\r\nThe straight-to-curve transition is often a problem, as Carl
    pointed out. His advice here is very sound, I think. Sometimes it is also desirable
    to use an intermediate point, but you risk adding lumps, so  I try it both ways:
    first try without an intermediate point, then highlight and paste to mask. Then
    try with an additional point and adjust. You may have to try this repeatedly.
    Also it is sometimes best to get rid of the straight, and make it a slight curve.
    \ \r\n\r\nYou have to play with all these different options for some time to get
    a feel for what does what in Bezier curves. It is quite unnatural, and only after
    sometime do you start to get a feeling for 'how to get there from here.'  "
  children:
  - author:
      name: kiko
      picture: 112433
    body: "once more, thanks a lot to all you people \r\nlet\xB4s see what i can do
      based on your advices, maybe i\xB4ll post the result later.\r\n\r\ni\xB4m really
      surprised with all the help you get here\r\nwish i had come before...\r\n\r\nseeya\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-04-30 21:07:36'
  created: '2007-04-30 18:54:36'
- author:
    name: kiko
    picture: 112433
  body: "i think it looks better now... but still needs some ajustments\r\nthe top
    left one, was the original... \r\n\r\nwhat happen now, is that i'll have to redraw
    all the other five \"s\" weights, i was trying to avoid that... \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/s2_4376.jpg]"
  created: '2007-05-01 00:06:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You still need extrema points at the top-left and bottom-right.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-01 00:17:20'
- author:
    name: kiko
    picture: 112433
  body: "like this...\r\nshould i let font audit fix that, or should i manually decide
    the point placement?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/s3_3657.jpg]"
  created: '2007-05-01 00:29:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Now get rid of the non-extrema points.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-01 00:53:15'
- author:
    name: kiko
    picture: 112433
  body: "removing that points, changes the overall shape too much\r\nits dificult
    to get it back after removing them\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/s4_5523.jpg]"
  created: '2007-05-01 00:59:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I am certainly no expert, but so far as I know, there is no need to put points
    at the extrema in an italic. For example, open a Minion italic m in FontLab with
    the Font Audit turned on. You will see that none of the 'east-west' extrema have
    nodes. \r\n\r\nMy conclusion is that the extrema are not necessary for hinting
    purposes on an italic. Minion does have hints on the horizontal width at extrema
    without the nodes being present. Hence the key question is what looks best for
    your font, either printed or on the screen. Having nodes at extrema is often a
    good idea, but is not an iron-clad rule, especially on an italic. \r\n\r\nFurthermore,
    you can have intermediate points if they help. For example you will see this on
    many italic D's. And, for example, Minion's lower case italic o has four intermediate
    points. \r\n\r\nIf you do want to add in the extrema then make sure you copy to
    mask you character, so you can very closely approximate the curves you like. \r\n\r\nFinally,
    as you probably know, no one can really have a clear idea about the strengths
    and weaknesses of your S without seeing how it works in relation to the other
    letters in your font.  \r\n\r\nEdit: I crossposted with you. You could get closer
    to the original that you have in mask by sliding the nodes around and then adjusting
    the handles. --Not that I'm recommending it. It is one way to go, but not any
    technical or aesthetic requirement, so far as I know. "
  created: '2007-05-01 01:23:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If you're not getting enough control over your curves just with extrema,
    definitely put more points, but not right next to the extrema; put them where
    the curves deviate most from your intentions.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-01 01:26:25'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Gosh, I feel sorry for all those poor type designers who are still stuck
    with using Beziers. It's so much easier with spirals.\r\n\r\nFortunately, my spiral-based
    tools will be coming online soon. Watch this space."
  created: '2007-05-01 02:10:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Drawing with Beziers isn't so difficult once you get the hang of it - it
    becomes second nature after a while. But I'd be interested to see if spirals are
    easier.\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2007-05-01 10:23:38'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: Can you tell us something more about your spiral-based tool, Raph? I'm quite
    intrigued.
  created: '2007-05-01 10:30:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">my spiral-based tools\r\n\r\nGreat news Raph. \r\n\r\nFor those of us who
    have been hanging around Typophile a while, this has been one of the exciting
    developments first exposed to the public here. \r\n\r\nI hope your drawing program
    will have an easy work flow going into FontLab, or even better be part of it.
    \r\n\r\nBefore Bezier curves, the type 'drawing offices' used French Curves to
    do production drawings. I'm not sure but it looks like French Curves might include
    Raph's beloved Cornu spiral, as well as conic sections, as curves. \r\n\r\nI talked
    to Lucas de Groot--who is an exceptionally math-aware designer--about Bezier curves
    after his TDC talk in New York a few months ago. De Groot likes to do hand drawings
    to get an 'organic' feel into his fonts.  One of the things he said was that it
    is in fact impossible to get some straight-to-curve shapes that you might want
    using Bezier curves. He said he digitized the drawings of an old designer who
    worked on paper, and it was impossible to get the straight to curve arches the
    same as the hand drawn ones.\r\n\r\nI know from what Raph has written earlier
    here that this is one of the problems that his curves address. \r\n\r\nI hope
    you have mercy on us and write a good manual to explain how to use your program,
    Raph!"
  created: '2007-05-01 15:13:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it was impossible to get the straight to curve\r\n> arches the same as
    the hand drawn ones.\r\n\r\nIt would be great to see exactly what such curves
    look like.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-01 17:02:25'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"impossible to get some straight-to-curve shapes that you might want using
    Bezier curves\"\r\n\r\nImpossible or just difficult? "
  created: '2007-05-01 18:42:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Impossible or just difficult?\r\n\r\nHe said impossible, or that he couldn't
    do it--more or less the same thing :)  \r\n\r\nAnd, yes, it would be nice to see
    pictures of what he was talking about.\r\n\r\nI think Raph will confirm that strictly
    speaking you can't make a cubic equation match a spiral. The question is whether
    the difference is significant. \r\n\r\nLast time Raph wrote about this I believe
    he was going to have a system that would draw with Cornu spirals and then convert
    the outlines automatically to Beziers. Then the conversion would not be exact,
    but differences might not be noticable at normal sizes. I assume that the converted
    outlines would not be something it would be intuitive to draw from scratch with
    Beziers.  "
  created: '2007-05-01 18:56:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> strictly speaking you can\u2019t make a cubic equation match a spiral.\r\n\r\nThat's
    true of any two different ways of describing a curve. It's never about getting
    a perfect match to something, but about how much inaccuracy you tolerate. For
    example none of these equations can make a \"perfect\" circle - but that's OK.\r\n\r\nThe
    essential appeal of Raph's work is instead in its\r\ncloser matching to how humans
    like to draw curves.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-01 19:15:07'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "I would like to see better tools for drawing with b-splines. It took me a
    while to realize that TrueType doesn't use simple quadratic curves, but b-splines
    that allow for multiple off curve points. However the tool support in FontLab
    isn't great. For example it would be nice to be able to force off curve points
    to align with the previous segment.\r\n\r\nBezier curves are easy to use, but
    after a while with points only at the extremes, all of the curves start to look
    the same. With beziers making smooth curves is pretty easy (which is why we use
    them), but if <em>everything</em> is smooth, things can get pretty boring. It's
    knowing where to put the kinks and lumps that makes great type."
  created: '2007-05-01 23:57:57'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Quick responses (because I'd rather spend more time actually building the
    app than talking about it right now):\r\n\r\nIt's not impossible to get good straight-to-curved
    transitions with Beziers, just difficult. It is very easy with my spiral tools.\r\n\r\nYou
    draw on-curve points, just like Ikarus, and a batch process converts them into
    optimized Beziers. You can control exactly how close you want the match to be.
    Fortunately, even with a modest number of Beziers you get a match that's close
    enough to be invisible at large sizes. The input is on the left, the result is
    on the right. You can see that it automatically takes care of such details as
    putting points on the extremities.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spiro_4996.png]\r\n\r\nThe
    bad news is that I myself am not going to integrate my tools into FontLab. The
    good news is that I am doing a GPL release, and will be happy to work with people
    to either do a free software plugin, or license the technology if it's to ship
    with an application.\r\n\r\nB-splines are primitive compared with what I'm doing.
    They're definitely easier for some things than Beziers, but in the hands of an
    expert, Beziers are more lithe and expressive.\r\n\r\nI am expecting that volunteers
    will step forward to write good documentation. More than one person has expressed
    interest.\r\n\r\nStay tuned."
  created: '2007-05-02 06:42:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "I don't get it. Why not just draw it like the one on the right in the first
    place?\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2007-05-02 11:52:09'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "Nick Cooke wrote:\r\n<cite>I don\u2019t get it. Why not just draw it like
    the one on the right in the first place?</cite>\r\n\r\nPresumably because of this,
    at the very least:\r\n\r\nraph wrote:\r\n<cite>It\u2019s not impossible to get
    good straight-to-curved transitions with Beziers, just difficult. It is very easy
    with my spiral tools.</cite>"
  created: '2007-05-02 14:14:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Raph, nice. One thing you might like to add is automatic insertion of inflection
    points during the conversion, since sometimes a missing one can cause problems.
    Like I see a missing one between the top two points on the right of the stem there.\r\n\r\nNick,
    the premise is that drawing certain types of curves (possibly most types of useful
    curves in type) is unnecessarily tedious with beziers - too much pushing and pulling,
    too iterative.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-02 21:24:49'
- author:
    name: kiko
    picture: 112433
  body: "I\xB4m still confused about the importance of extreme points in italics...\r\nI\xB4ve
    been examing fonts with similar design of the one i\xB4m drawing, and many don\xB4t
    use them at all. Is it really necessary in a font for print porpuses like mine?
    \r\nAt this point, i really wouldn't like to redraw the italics in all the font
    weights.\r\nInserting extreme points really change the original shape too much!\r\nMaybe
    I should have done that in a earlier stage of the process! \r\n\r\nstill have
    lot to learn...\r\n \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-05-02 23:14:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">confused \r\n\r\nSince people regularly disagree on Typophile about practically
    everything, you have to do your own research and judge for yourself--which it
    looks like you have already done.  \r\n\r\nWelcome to Typophile :) "
  created: '2007-05-03 01:03:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Gosh, I feel sorry for all those poor type designers who are still stuck
    with using Beziers. It\u2019s so much easier with spirals.\"\r\n? hmmm. What outputs
    spirals? What I don't get is: if the most popular font format in the whole wide
    world is TRUETYPE, then why do designers draw in beziers? What's more, why would
    anyone want to draw in a format that is niether? What is easier with spirals?
    Drawing something that you can't output without converting? And if in fact drawing
    in some other format and then converting \"losslessly\" to T1 of TT were possible,
    then that representation of TT or T1 would be as good as the spirals were. But
    lossless conversion is not happening here I'll guess. So I feel sorry for all
    type designers, the one's who draw in b's, qs and s's, and convert them automatically
    to something, or I should say, anything else."
  created: '2007-05-04 04:07:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> if the most popular font format in the whole wide world\r\n> is TRUETYPE,
    then why do designers draw in beziers?\r\n\r\nI guess you mean cubic beziers,
    \xE0 la PS, as opposed to quadratic, \xE0 la TT? If so, that's a good question,
    and I guess it comes down to: habit, both concerning users and app makers; and
    the fact that popular is one thing, paying customers is another. And actually
    the fact that most people design using a math structure that's less popular is
    good news for the potential future success of Cornu spirals.\r\n\r\nAnd anyway
    it's not a matter of what <cite>outputs</cite> spirals, it's really a matter of:
    does the thing that let's you <cite>design</cite> with spirals let you convert
    to beziers in the end? And Raph already knows the answer needs to be yes.\r\n\r\nNow
    clearly it would be really nice to have spiral-based editing available directly
    in FontLab. But you have to start somewhere, and if the public design&conversion
    tool becomes popular enough FontLab will end up integrating spirals as an option.\r\n\r\n>
    converting \u201Closslessly\u201D to T1 of TT were possible\r\n\r\nIt's not only
    a matter of losslessness. People design in cubics\r\nand output in quadratics
    all the time, and that's lossy too.\r\n\r\n> that representation of TT or T1 would
    be as good as the spirals were.\r\n\r\nSure, but the spirals are supposed to help
    <cite>drawing</cite>, not representing.\r\n\r\n> I feel sorry for all type designers...
    who ... convert\r\n> them automatically to ... anything else.\r\n\r\nThis is a
    good point. Spirals aren't \"native\", and probably never will be. And yes, it's
    always nicer to draw in whatever way will be output (and this applies very well
    to screen font design for example) but there's a limit to that - like sure the
    rasterizer ends up converting all the outlines to bitmaps but you don't want to
    be designing your fonts as bitmaps hundreds of pixels high! It just has to be
    <cite>good enough</cite>. So if the conversion is tight enough (for which all
    you ever really need is enough points) then the -presumed- gain in drawing efficiency
    would make up for the slight lossiness.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-04 06:08:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"the fact that most people design using a math structure that\u2019s less
    popular is good news for the potential future success of Cornu spirals.\"\r\nrong.
    (cry o.l.)\r\n\r\n\" So if the conversion is tight enough (for which all you ever
    really need is enough points\"\r\nrong.(lol) All the points in a contour must
    find a new position on the grid when scaled. How more points effect this is not
    a mystery to me, but apparently it is to others.\r\n\r\n\"Now clearly it would
    be really nice to have spiral-based editing available directly in FontLab.\"\r\nClarity
    is obviously relative. Think it'd be better to have spirals than a decent UI to
    QBs? Think spirals are a substitute for proper placement of off-curve points in
    ether QB's or CB's?\r\n\r\n\"Sure, but the spirals are supposed to help drawing,
    not representing.\r\nThere is no help for drawing that is not representing the
    actual. This is where the \"myth of the scaleable outline\" and its polution of
    the type design community, mix in \"perfect\" union.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CaptureHrant_6665.PNG]\r\nAbove:
    L MS CT cloection Calibri l.c. o, as it is. R as \"native TT\".\r\nBelow: both
    scaled to text size, (and back up so you can see (perhapz)).\r\nSo rong, it's
    been good to no you. ;)\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-04 13:19:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Caveat: I haven't really tried Raph's spirals yet. It's possible that for
    the way I work beziers are just as good/bad. But it's also possible that a person
    could be turned from his scepticism by actually using spirals.\r\n\r\nI wrote:\r\n>
    the fact that most people design using a math structure that\u2019s\r\n> less
    popular is good news for the potential future success of\r\n> Cornu spirals.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    that was too easy to misunderstand. What I meant was, since so many people design
    in cubic beziers but often generate and sell those designs in TT format (a conversion
    which is not lossless), the lossiness of spiral-to-bezier doesn't seem to be a
    huge barrier to \"success\". Which is not to say it's ideal in terms of Designing
    For The Medium, but other considerations, like in this case the efficiency of
    wrapping your head around a design process, are not secondary. If it takes you
    half the time to make something that's 95% good enough, that suits quite a lot
    of people.\r\n\r\n> All the points in a contour must find a new position on the
    grid\r\n> when scaled. How more points effect this is not a mystery to me,\r\n>
    but apparently it is to others.\r\n\r\nI guess you're talking about hinting? That's
    a good point.\r\nBut couldn't the conversion process be hinting-aware?\r\n\r\nOr
    maybe you're talking about resolution? In that case though a larger Em space (which
    is admittedly sometimes problematic, but not much for contemporary computers)
    should address that well.\r\n\r\n> Think it\u2019d be better to have spirals than
    a decent UI to QBs?\r\n\r\nIf spirals are as \"natural\" to design with as it
    sounds, I would say that a \"decent\" UI for quadratic beziers* would have to
    be almost prescient to match! I suspect it would have to deploy a level of abstraction
    to obviate the cumbersome nature of quadratics. And that abstraction might in
    fact ruin the advantage of \"native\" design. It seems safe to say that beziers
    -especially quadratics- have some inherent mismatch to how humans like to make
    shapes - at least more of a mismatch that spirals [might] have, and you can overcome
    that without ruining the main reason you're using them.\r\n\r\n* And note, we've
    been talking about the advantage of spirals vs <cite>cubic</cite> beziers, which
    seem to be [even] less \"unnatural\" for most people than quadratics.\r\n\r\n>
    Think spirals are a substitute for proper placement\r\n> of off-curve points in
    ether QB\u2019s or CB\u2019s?\r\n\r\nMaybe.\r\n\r\n> There is no help for drawing
    that is not representing the actual.\r\n\r\nIn an absolute sense, I agree. But
    human activity is never absolute, not even when Designing For The Medium, and
    if you bend that \"actual\" just a little bit spirals could in fact be a superb
    substitute.\r\n\r\nas for your interesting Calibri example, I think I know what
    you're getting at, but I don't see how scaling is relevant to the one-time, non-scalar
    conversion of spirals to beziers.\r\n\r\nBTW, the righthand ones looks like cubics\r\nto
    me - are you sure you meant \"native TT\"?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-04 18:12:19'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "@dberlow:\r\n\r\nShort answers: <em>Think it\u2019d be better to have spirals
    than a decent UI to QBs?</em> No.\r\n\r\n<em>Think spirals are a substitute for
    proper placement of off-curve points in ether QB\u2019s or CB\u2019s?</em> Yes.\r\n\r\n@hrant:\r\n\r\n<em>But
    couldn\u2019t the conversion process be hinting-aware?</em> It could be, but I
    want to be clear up-front. The tools I'm about to release to <em>nothing</em>
    to help with hinting. Nada. Bupkis. If you care about hints, you need to either
    manually hint the converted outlines (which, I believe, is not terribly painful
    given how well-optimized those are), or integrate the tool with an autohinting
    technology such as the one Adobe ships in [[AFDKO]].\r\n\r\n<em>Or maybe you\u2019re
    talking about resolution? In that case though a larger Em space (which is admittedly
    sometimes problematic, but not much for contemporary computers) should address
    that well.</em> Actually, a rather little-known fact of the Type1 font format
    is that the div operator lets you get pretty much any precision you want, even
    at a 1000 em. FontForge, for all its other limitations, does have an option to
    save outlines using this trick.\r\n\r\nTed Nelson once said, \"if the button is
    not shaped like the thought, then the thought will end up shaped like the button.\"
    All I'm trying to do here is create a button more font-shaped than Beziers. I'm
    not claiming they'll be better in every situation (especially when the designer
    has invested a huge amount of time learning how to beat Beziers into submission),
    but I do claim that my tools will expand the palette open to font designers, and,
    based on my experience so far, suspect that a lot of people will find that they
    enjoy sketching in spirals directly on the screen.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-04 23:32:43'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"but I do claim that my tools will expand the palette open to font designers\"\r\nI
    think your claim is bogus and challenge you to make a shape with your spirals
    that I can't make. I.E. show me the expanded pallette and 1 way or another, I
    will expand to greet it.\r\n\r\n\"I guess you\u2019re talking about hinting? That\u2019s
    a good point.\"\r\nI am not talking about hinting Hrant. When one scales a digital
    outline with or without hints, all of the points, on and off the curve, MUST find
    a new location on the new grid to round to when the outline is scaled to that
    em size.\r\n\r\n\" it would have to deploy a level of abstraction to obviate the
    cumbersome nature of quadratics\"\r\nYou are looking at optimized quadratica on
    the right of my illustration. How abstract is that compared to CBs? In fact, to
    me, QB's (with their ability to represent the entire spectrum of curvature in
    a quarter of a circle with two off curves between two on curves), is perfect &
    complete.\r\n\r\n\"if the button is not shaped like the thought, then the thought
    will end up shaped like the button\"\r\nYes... well, if the button is shaped like
    a snap, than the snap will not function like a button, much less with any button
    hole.\r\n\r\n\"All I\u2019m trying to do here is create a button more font-shaped
    than Beziers\"\r\nFor the output QBs of CBs, there is no button more font-shaped
    than QBs or CBs. I'm not certain how to say it any clearer, except to point out,
    with all due respect, that we are not making outlines for their appearance, we
    are making containers for the appearance of pixels. You seem to be making containers
    for containers for pixels.\r\n\r\n\"a larger Em space (which is admittedly sometimes
    problematic, but not much for contemporary computers) should address that well.\"\r\nHow?
    I heard Bill suggest this in another thread\u2014 please, tell me how a larger
    em helps?\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-05 04:58:36'
- author:
    name: sgh
    picture: 111405
  body: "@dberlow: <em>In fact, to me, QB\u2019s (with their ability to represent
    the entire spectrum of curvature in a quarter of a circle with two off curves
    between two on curves), is perfect & complete.</em>\r\n\r\nCould you please explain
    this comment more?  I don't understand when you say that quadratic Beziers can
    represent the \"entire spectrum of curvature.\"  Quadratic Beziers cannot exactly
    represent circles (which have constant nonzero curvature).  In general, because
    of their quadratic nature, controlling the curvature along a quadratic Bezier
    is difficult.  Cubic Beziers are a bit easier because they have an additional
    degree of freedom, but I still find them not very natural.  I'm eager to try Raph's
    new splines based on Cornu spirals to see if they are more natural.  From my understanding
    of how they work, they guarantee nice smoothness properties (continuous curvature)
    with fewer degrees of freedom (ie, a nice curve with fewer things to worry about
    while drawing)."
  created: '2007-05-05 05:45:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> make a shape with your spirals that I can\u2019t make.\r\n\r\nBut, again,
    it's not about Possible, it's about Comfortable,\r\nwhich however does translate
    to Doable at the end of the day.\r\n\r\n> When one scales a digital outline\r\n\r\nBut
    there's no scaling going on here. You convert spirals to beziers,\r\nin the same
    resolution space, and then it's the same thing, no?\r\n\r\n> You are looking at
    optimized quadratica on the right of\r\n> my illustration. How abstract is that
    compared to CBs?\r\n\r\nBut I'm not talking about the results, I'm talking about
    what it took to get the results. The premise here is that somebody who wants to
    end up with a given result will generally arrive at it more comfortably with spirals
    than with beziers (especially quadratic ones). And what I was saying about \"abstraction\"
    is that if you wanted to make a more comfortable UI for quadratic beziers you
    might ruin the only reason to use them in the first place, essentially by removing
    \"direct\" control. This is an intuitive judgment though - I'm not too sure about
    it.\r\n\r\n> to me, QB\u2019s (with their ability to represent the entire spectrum\r\n>
    of curvature in a quarter of a circle with two off curves between\r\n> two on
    curves), is perfect & complete.\r\n\r\nIf you mean as a representational method,
    I might agree. But if you mean it as a design process, then you're quite special:
    most people seem to hate drawing quadratics compared to cubics, and this seems
    to be due to more than just habit. And these are the same people who might prefer
    to use spirals over beziers for the same reason. So no, the point isn't that David
    Berlow will benefit from spirals, or even that Sophisticated Designers will benefit,
    it's that Some Designers (I suspect Most Designers) will benefit; that's all a
    new tool needs to be a useful contribution.\r\n\r\nThis distinction I keep repeating,
    and you keep dismissing, concerning result vs process is critical, because we're
    humans who are by nature attuned to certain ways of doing things, and the end
    result has to be put in the context of how [comfortably] we can get to it.\r\n\r\n>
    we are not making outlines for their appearance,\r\n> we are making containers
    for the appearance of pixels.\r\n\r\nThat's a great way of looking at it, and
    sadly many people [prefer to] forget that even a 3600 dpi imagesetter is laying
    down pixels. BUT: if the conversion from spiral to bezier is tighter than a single
    pixel (which it can be made to be - it's up to the converter) or even almost as
    tight as a single pixel, then it's Good Enough, and that's Great.\r\n\r\n> I heard
    Bill suggest this in another thread\u2014\r\n> please, tell me how a larger em
    helps?\r\n\r\nWell Bill's point was something else: that a larger Em space allows
    finer placement of points, which is obvious. My point above was that when you
    scale [down], a larger Em is more accomodating. But this is really moot anyway
    because -as I tried to explain just above- there's no scaling going on that I
    see, I mean not any time before the spirals get converted to beziers.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nMaybe
    what you're getting at is that at the very high end of digital type design one
    must directly draw quadratic beziers, that spirals can't take you there. That
    actually sounds right to me, even though I'm not there myself. But 95% of type
    design out there isn't like that. People still make money and enjoy their work
    with clunky, poorly hinted cubic beziers, and it seems pretty safe to believe
    that spirals can help many of them, perhaps even most.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-05 06:18:55'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Something that would be very helpful for my thesis: does anyone know of a
    reference in the citable literature for a statement about how difficult it is
    to do straight-to-curve transitions using Beziers? The substance of Luc's observations
    to William are exactly the kind of thing I'm looking for, but it's not really
    cricket to cite a blog, especially when it's a secondhand quote. A book, or maybe
    an article in Typo or somesuch, would be ideal.\r\n\r\nThanks in advance!"
  created: '2007-05-05 20:15:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Maybe something on Underware's site or Briem's. In hardcopy you are unlikely
    to find anything, since this is essentially an anecdotal, fuzzy experience.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-05 20:51:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "For a hardcopy source I suddenly thought I remembered something in one\r\nof
    the Cabarga books, but a quick search through them turned up nothing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-05 21:15:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">it\u2019s not really cricket to cite a blog, especially when it\u2019s a
    secondhand quote.\r\n\r\nI agree. I would suggest contacting him. He has a contact
    e-mail address at his web site, www.lucasfonts.com . Because he is very interested
    in the mathematics of drawing fonts, I think he probably would be interested in
    your project, and be happy to share his views with you. "
  created: '2007-05-06 01:33:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I found what I was remembering seeing: pp 26-27 of K Cheng's \"Designing
    Type\", showing what she calls (and I think some others have called) the \"bone
    effect\" and how to fix it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-06 01:42:19'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Schitziod_5180.PNG]\r\n\"Could you please
    explain this comment...[] that quadratic Beziers can represent the \u201Centire
    spectrum of curvature.\u201D\" Gladly. \r\n\r\nThe illustration enclosed shows
    FL's representation of ye olde 21st century schizoid \"o\".  The left side of
    each \"o\" is CBs and the right side, is QBs. \r\nThe left \"o\" is standing still,
    and the right \"o\" is illustrating. \r\nWhat I mean by an entire spectrum of
    curvature, is now obvious?\r\n\r\n\"But, again, it\u2019s not about Possible,
    it\u2019s about Comfortable,\r\nwhich however does translate to Doable at the
    end of the day.\"\r\n\r\nFor whom are you so concerned? If type designers think
    it's too hard to draw beziers, I personally think they should find another job,
    or hobby, as the case may be. \r\n\r\n\"But there\u2019s no scaling going on here.
    You convert spirals to beziers,\r\nin the same resolution space, and then it\u2019s
    the same thing, no?\"\r\n\r\nUntil...it's time to use them, and then they must
    scale, must they not? But Ralph has not answered the question of how he is going
    to convert from spirals to either useful form losslessly. Even close to losslessly
    will leave a CB or QB that Must display the best possible transition from line
    to curve that the real formats allow. At that point in the process the designer
    (or hobbyist), has the \"best\" answer to a particular contour, and then who needed
    the spirals to begin with?\r\n\r\n\"that a larger Em space allows finer placement
    of points, which is obvious.\"\r\nObvious to me, is that scaling up to better
    position details that are to be scaled down for use is not practiced here, and
    has not been. \r\n\r\nLet me rephrase what Hrant said next..\r\nAt the end of
    digital type design one must directly supply quadratic [or cubic] beziers. \r\n\r\n\"But
    95% of type design out there isn\u2019t like that.\"\r\nMaybe not, but 95% of
    the type you read is another thing. :)\r\n\r\nFinally, [does anyone know] \"citable
    literature for a statement about how difficult it is to do straight-to-curve transitions
    using Beziers?\"\r\n\r\nGood luck! as that would require it to be difficult."
  created: '2007-05-06 18:24:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "What's difficult about using a tangent point or node (the triangular one)
    to go from a straight line to a curve?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pointtypes_4680.jpg]\r\n\r\nAm
    I missing something here?\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  children:
  - author:
      name: sgh
      picture: 111405
    body: "The difficulty is in having continuous curvature at the transition from
      the straight line (which has curvature 0) to the curve.  This is possible but
      difficult with cubic Beziers, as it requires the control point of the next on-curve
      point (not the control point for the tangent node, but the next one) to be collinear
      with the line segment.\r\nI'm not sure, but it may be impossible to have continuous
      curvature at line-to-curve transitions with quadratic Beziers. \r\n\r\nLarge
      discontinuity in curvature may be the cause of what's known as the \"bone effect.\"
      \ If the discontinuity is small (as it seems in your example), the effect may
      not be noticeable.\r\n"
    created: '2007-05-08 16:45:09'
  created: '2007-05-08 11:01:26'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Am I missing something here?\r\nNo. Thanks for asking though. "
  created: '2007-05-08 12:00:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Am I missing something here?\r\n>>No. Thanks for asking though. \r\n\r\nWhat
    Raph is addressing in his spiral curves for drawing in not whether smooth straight
    to curve outlines can be drawn, but what they are going to look like. \r\n\r\nIf
    you look over at the <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/33531#new\">Spiro release
    thread</a> you will see an example of how a good designer, Christian Robertson
    (See Dear Sarah and Pill Gothic over at Veer), says he was able to get curves
    he liked on an S far more easily with the Spiro tools, compared to the Bezier
    tools. \r\n\r\nLucas de Groot didn't say to me that he couldn't draw good straight-to-curve
    outlines--he obviously can. He said he couldn't get some organic shapes he was
    trying to based on hand drawn examples of another designer. \r\n\r\nI haven't
    tried the Spiro tools, and may not until they become more accessible and integrated
    with font production programs. However, I do find it plausable that this will
    be helpful in getting a new flavor into type, even for those who are masters of
    drawing with Bezier curves. For I do think that tools do influence the result.
    You can play the same tune on a flute and a guitar. But it isn't going to sound
    the same.  "
  created: '2007-05-08 12:41:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> ... but what they are going to look like.\r\n\r\nNo, how easy it is to
    get them to look close enough to what we want.\r\n\r\nYes, the tool does influence
    the result, but never absolutely.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nDavid, I was going to reply
    to your post but\r\nyou're beeing so crabbeeeeee :-) that I've had\r\nto give
    up! For now.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-08 14:22:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, in Nick's example the straight segment is too short for the \"bone effect\"
    to be notable. On the other hand that effect is an optical one, not something
    that happens exactly at the straight/curve transition. Which is not to say that
    it doesn't require wrangling with beziers, as there's no other way to fix it anyway
    (assuming the straight part isn' sacrificed). The assumed benefit of cornus in
    terms of this effect are that they reduce it due to the way they \"get away\"
    from the straight and/or they're easier to compensate with.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-08 17:01:44'
date: '2007-04-29 18:31:04'
title: curve smoothness

---
