---
author:
  name: paul d hunt
  picture: 109422
body: 'i''m curious. after reading over Gerry''s [[Greek|short history of the Greek
  script]], i want to know what the current trends are in Greece regarding the handling
  of their own script. i was doing some digging to reference the Gill Sans Hellenic,
  which was used for the 2004 Olympics in Athens and found <a href="http://www.fonts.gr/tryfonts/sample.asp?familyID=226">a
  sample on the Cannibal Fonts website</a>. i was a bit surprised, because as i quickly
  browsed through several of the type families on this site, most seemed very westernized
  to me, being highly geometric. however, if you look at faces produced here in the
  west, they seem to follow traditional models more closely, with the new ClearType
  fonts and Thomas'' new <a href="http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/Hypatia%20text%20settings.pdf">Hypatia
  Sans</a> showing a lot more calligraphic flavor. which brings me to an actual question:
  do native Greeks prefer more westernized (geometric) or more traditional (calligraphic)
  for Greek extensions of western faces?'
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Paul,\r\n\r\nThe book \"Greek Letters: from Tablets to Pixels [Michael S.
    Macrakis (editor)\" may still be available from Abe Books or Oak Knoll. It is
    probably the best source through the mid 1990s. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-30 20:38:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "On preferences, my guess is that there is not a consensus of opinion on  geometric
    vs. calligraphic.  The Greek Font Society may be a good source:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.greekfontsociety.org/pages/en_publications2004.html
    - 20k -\r\n\r\nalso, here is an article by Klimis:\r\n\r\nhttp://afroditi.uom.gr/uompress/pdf/klimiscv.pdf\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS:
    That last one was not the article I thought from Klimis. I will look for it."
  created: '2007-04-30 20:45:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"Greek Letters: from Tablets to Pixels\" is wonderful, but when it comes
    to current trends it's too old.\r\n\r\nFrom my modest experience (basically talking
    to Greek type people in 2002 and 2004) they generally don't like the Latinized
    forms. The Western habit of relying heavily on chirography on the other hand is
    very old-fashioned, and any native who uses a computer is likely to like that
    even less (even though I personally think it's less bad). But they haven't been
    given many real alternatives to the two \"schools\", so... The one recent Greek
    font I admire is Apollonia.\r\n\r\nSo Paul, if you could help, they'd love you
    for decades.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-30 21:04:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: .
  created: '2007-04-30 21:11:52'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">i want to know what the current trends are in Greece regarding the handling
    of their own script. \r\n\r\nI think your best bet would be to invest in a trip
    to Thessaloniki in June. "
  created: '2007-04-30 21:18:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: .
  created: '2007-04-30 21:21:35'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I think your best bet would be to invest in a trip to Thessaloniki in
    June.</em>\r\n\r\nheh. or hopefully another investment starting this fall will
    pay off just as well. :^p"
  created: '2007-04-30 21:22:03'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> I think your best bet would be to invest in a trip to Thessaloniki in June.\r\n\r\nmoreover
    -- buy newspapers , see books, CDs etc etc. As Chris said there is not a consensus."
  created: '2007-04-30 21:25:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it\u2019s how that alphabet originated\r\n\r\nWell, not exactly. It came
    from the Phoenician, which was also angular.\r\n\r\n> this face is no more nor
    less radical than Futura was to the Latin type.\r\n\r\nThat doesn't make sense,
    considering the\r\nprecedent in one and the lack in the other.\r\n\r\n> The design
    of Olympia addresses ithe issue of\r\n> modernism and tradition, latinization
    is irrelevant.\r\n\r\nThe two are strongly related.\r\nModernism is not a universal
    culture.\r\n\r\n> Don\u2019t follow trends, make them.\r\n\r\nGreat advice. But
    for text face design, first you need\r\na firm grasp of readability. This applies
    to Latin too...\r\n\r\nIf you want to make something highly readable you either
    mimic\r\nor you fathom. And you can't innovate properly without the latter.\r\n\r\n>
    take a look at Akira Kobayashi\u2019s career for inspiration.\r\n\r\nWhat about
    talent?\r\nMaybe (and this seems quite likely) Akira has more than average?\r\n\r\nAnother
    central thing is nativity: Japanese people for example are exposed to a lot of
    Latin when they're growing up, while Latin users don't see much besides Latin.
    Nativity is glossed over mostly by people who would suffer a drop in credibility
    by admitting they lack enough of it.\r\n\r\nAnd Simon's advice is rock-solid.\r\nDon't
    rely on souvlaki buddies too much...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-30 21:44:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"do native Greeks prefer more westernized \"\r\n\r\nBy Western, do you mean
    American or European as well? Greece is an EU country and part of Western civilization
    so I am not sure you can separate the two. It seems to me that there were some
    ancient Greek mathematicians (Euclid and Pythagorus) who had something to do with
    Geometry as well :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-30 22:22:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Greece is more around the border between East and West.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-30 22:26:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Perhaps all the more reason to not be unified in their preferences on type.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-30 22:35:38'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "gee. i get in trouble whenever i use the term \"Western\" don't i? leave
    it to an Arizonan to think that everything Western has to do with his own culture.
    :^p\r\ni guess i should have said \"latinized\" or \"modernized\" instead of \"Westernized,\"
    as we all know that Greece is the cultural birthplace of Western culture."
  created: '2007-04-30 22:35:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-30 22:41:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Paul,\r\nI didn't mean it that way. I was trying to indicate that Greece
    is an unusual case. Latin was initially Greconized so it is really a soup mix.
    Greece was also influenced by the Ottomans, the British, and now, Americans. What
    is authentic and pure Greek is a very fuzzy thing. Look at Hyphen 2006 and see
    what typeface it is set in? We live in a World more international in nature than
    ever. Purist nationalistic notions just don't have the sway that they used to.
    Unlike the pre digital era, Greeks can buy type anywhere in the world online.
    They have choices, they make choices just like the rest of the world. They are
    not stuck with what used to be on a Monotype hotmetal typesetter any more. This
    is a very interesting topic, Paul, and I had no intension of putting you in an
    uncomfortable place by trying to pin down Westernism. Personally, whatever Westernism
    used to be, is certainly something else now, thanks, in part, to the internet.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-30 22:52:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Even the pen manuscripts from that era show a very \u201Cblocky\u201D way
    of writing.\"\r\n\r\nTrue, but blocky may not be quite the right word.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/papyrus_6260.gif]"
  created: '2007-04-30 22:55:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The first greek alphabets ...\r\n\r\nI was objecting to your use of \"originated\".\r\nGreek
    was angular partly because the Phoenician was.\r\n\r\n> preserved in stone\r\n\r\nThink
    a little bit what that implies...\r\n\r\n> Both Olympia and Futura take liberties
    with traditional letterforms\r\n\r\nBut in qualitatively different spheres of
    context and precedent.\r\n\r\n> that doesn\u2019t equate modernism with the west
    and the latin alphabet.\r\n\r\nWho said anything about \"equate\"?\r\n\r\n> it\u2019s
    not a big deal\r\n\r\nYou're very much mistaken.\r\nWhen one is not exposed to
    non-Latin visual language\r\nas a child, one is handicapped in that sphere for
    life.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-30 23:00:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ".\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-01 00:37:56'
- author:
    name: gtrianta
    picture: 111263
  body: "My opinion on the subject is based more on intuition and less on thorough
    research so I am going to be careful on what I say (it's the heart talking rather
    than the mind on this one).\r\n\r\nI totally agree with Chris Lozos's position
    on the way modernist values have changed into something universal for almost all
    \"western societies\". In fact some of the best works (imho) in greek poster design
    have been made during the 60s/70s by graphic designers like Michalis and Agni
    Katzouraki, and Freddy Karabott and were very much influenced by modernism.\r\n\r\nSo,
    yes Greece is most of the times a \"user\" and not an \"initiator\" (and when
    it comes to typography, that is the case), and, yes, Greece has for many years
    tried to decide whether it considers itself east or west. The thing is though
    that our (my) dilemma has now changed - and it's based on Chris's conclusion:
    we are able to purchase typefaces and get inspired by designs from all over the
    world. So, do we really need to think in terms of \"nationalistic\" or \"latinized\"
    or \"exoticized\" or whatever designs, rather than thinking in more universal
    terms.\r\n\r\nGerry Leonidas's analysis is truly detailed and correct. But in
    my opinion what is rather interesting to see is that Helvetica (and Helvetica-looking
    typefaces) has been the default in several applications in graphic design for
    a lot of years from the 60s up to the 90s, and then Meta and Din came and replaced
    it, and then (a few years ago) Myriad came and replaced them, and then (fewer
    years ago) Fedra came and conquered the contemporary greek typographic world.
    As you can see they are all contemporary and mainly geometric (instead of calligraphy
    based) typefaces. And then, in the book industry, Didot (like GFS's Didot), and
    Times were the default. And they never left the scene, only to find themselves
    occasionally replaced by Minion or Warnock (in the past few years).\r\n\r\nSo,
    what I am trying to pinpoint is that foreign (that is non-greek) typographic designers
    have now (and I guess always had) a \"power\" to lead the trends in greek typography
    without too much critique or even competition. And of course it's not them to
    blame (if there is anyone to blame). The think is that you can count the greeks
    that actually try to understand and thoroughly research the phenomenon called
    \"greek typography\" in your two hands. Their work is undoubtedly remarkable.
    But the educational and research gap is something that literally prevents upcoming
    greek designers to be critical when faced with an \"imported\" interpretation
    of the greek alphabet, let alone innovative when it comes to designing their own
    interpretations.\r\n\r\nSo, to conclude, for me there is no such thing as a preference
    towards traditional or geometric typographic forms in comtemporary Greece. There
    are just people trying to cope with constant change or mimicing imported norms.
    And there are fewer people trying to fathom how did we get here and (if they should/could)
    change it.\r\n\r\nGeorge Triantafyllakos - backpacker.gr"
  created: '2007-05-01 00:43:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "My point concerning Futura vs Olympia is that the latter is qualitatively
    more progressive, less reliant on precedent; your equating of the two is non-sensical.\r\n\r\n>
    That\u2019s not been my experience.\r\n\r\nNobody can expect you to see clearly
    within your own system. You can't easily know that your progressive text face
    is in fact a flop. In fact in your case when an expert tells you so, you choose
    to turn the tables in your hubris. You have to listen to and trust others to tell
    you what's most likely going on with your designs.\r\n\r\n> if you do your homework.\r\n\r\nIt's
    not only a matter of homework. Formalism only covers half the ground, the rest
    is incommunicable, non-transferrable subconsiousness, nativity. It is known that
    the formative years of a person's childhood bestow certain affinities that cannot
    be gained later. It is known for example that children who learn two languages
    early on end up being fluent in both to a degree an adult can never attain.* Never.
    This is our biology, and you are no less human than any of us.\r\n\r\n* In fact
    early-bilingual people attain a different <cite>type</cite> of intelligence. In
    effect, their brains develop slightly differently. This is not shocking - in fact
    teenagers go through pronounced structural changes to their brains during puberty.\r\n\r\nSo
    you simply cannot \"get\" it any more. It's too late.\r\nIgnoring this reality
    is self-serving and possibly even dishonest.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-01 00:52:43'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'i decided that this is a good case for stylistic sets: make a more calligraphic
    version and a geometric version, and let end users choose (assuming they have
    Adobe CS products :^p ).'
  created: '2007-05-01 01:05:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"There are just people trying to cope with constant change or mimicking
    imported norms. And there are fewer people trying to fathom how did we get here
    and (if they should/could) change it.\"\r\n\r\nThank you George, that is exactly
    it in the nutshell. Greeks, or any of us anywhere, are not limited to what happens
    between here and the next village so designers do not confine their work to what
    was done in that bygone era. What is the value in reconstituting the past for
    everything we do? If past generations had done that, there would not be any typography
    today. Greeks were seaman and traders and explorers and invaders. They gathered
    from the foreign lands they saw and developed a culture and a language and an
    alphabet. If they took nothing from Phoenicians or Babylonians or Assyrians, perhaps
    that writing would never have come. The Romans borrowed from the Greeks, and later,
    the Greeks borrowed back. Mix in the Turks, and later the rest of Europe and you
    see what a conglomeration it was. This all took thousands of years by slow ships
    and by foot. Today, cultures blend in an instant. Today, what used to be the next
    village, is now the entire globe and at the speed of a T1 line.\r\nJust think
    of having this conversation among us all, separated by thousands of miles. If
    we just did what our older culture had done, we would never know each-other.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-05-01 02:02:50'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i'm bumping this just to see if i can get a bit more mileage out of this thread...
  created: '2007-05-01 17:52:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey, that bump did in fact jolt my memory! I was meaning to add the following:\r\n\r\nIt
    seems to me that just as important (perhaps even more important) than the angular
    vs curvy \"potential authenticity\" difference between Greek and Latin is the
    former's much lower regard for alignment. The Latin caps are made to fit (mostly)
    between two lines, and the Latin lc (mostly) between four. In Greek however historically
    there's been a certain leaning towards a single <cite>median</cite> line (especially
    in the caps) as well as a large degree of deviation from the \"x-height\" as well
    as the extender lines in the lc.\r\n\r\nSo I think it might be possible to sometimes
    make Greek more\r\n\"authentic\" by being a bit naughty about vertical alignment.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-01 18:13:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "That's an interesting point. \r\n\r\nLooking at written Ethopic scripts and
    especially John H's Nyalla ( but not other Ethopic fonts so much ) shows an example
    of that going on in another script. Chris' sample does seem to bear your idea
    out to a point. \r\n\r\nDo you have any good examples to look at.\r\n\r\nWhat
    would Gerry say? \r\n\r\nI wonder if from a political EU & trade perspective looking
    Latin compatible might be seen as desirable. I have heard this described ( in
    the context of Greek) as the urge towards 'modernity' here on Typophile. Interestingly
    this is also how I have heard a Ato, an Ethiopic type designer express himself.\r\n\r\nI
    can't say I love the idea myself - but that might not be the point sometimes."
  created: '2007-05-01 20:42:34'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Nick, did you delete all your posts from this thread?
  created: '2007-05-02 01:27:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, it's become a habit of his. If I don't play by his rules he pouts and
    leaves. And behind the scenes he's lobbied to make his rules those of Typophile,
    buy nobody's buying. And that just makes him angrier.\r\n\r\nBut the most I should
    reasonably be expected to do I've already done:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/16005
    _\r\nAh, the things I would have written in the Globe & Mail thread... And I have
    to suspect this is the reason he's been starting so many threads lately, at least
    when it comes to \"news\".\r\n\r\nBut apparently it's never enough. You're either
    with him, or against him.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-02 01:43:18'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: if nick truly did this, i'm outraged! this is not playing by the rules. under
    the old typophile system, posts could not be edited or deleted after an hour of
    the original posting. i feel it's okay to edit things out of your posts, as long
    as you mark that the post has been edited, but deleting all posts from a thread
    wholesale is just wrong. all this said, this is me speaking for myself and not
    as a moderator. however, i WILL be taking issue on this with the powers that be
    if such behavior continues.
  created: '2007-05-02 02:03:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's hard to say what the cutoff time should be for editing.\r\nI guess some
    cutoff might in fact make sense though.\r\n\r\nNow, if you're angry that some
    valuable insight you thought you had long-term access to has suddenly disappeared,
    contact Nick and it's quite likely that he'll privately reconstruct whatever he
    had written here. Like all artists-at-heart, he only gets angry at people who
    criticize his work. And only the most groveling apology can have a chance of getting
    them to forgive. No way, no how, bud.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-02 02:14:05'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>It\u2019s hard to say what the cutoff time should be for editing.\r\nI
    guess some cutoff might in fact make sense though.</cite>\r\n\r\nAllowing additions
    to posts without editing the old text would be nice. This would preserve text
    while still allowing additions in an order more convenient to people dropping
    in later."
  created: '2007-05-02 02:26:41'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: The sense of a thread unravels when the posts go missing. I don't know what
    Nick has in mind here & I would like to hear what he has to say before I give
    him a hard time; but I was really disappointed to see his posts missing. :-(
  created: '2007-05-02 02:33:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Paul,\r\nI found the article from Klimis. I can't post it to this thread,
    it is a pdf.\r\nMaybe this will work:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dezcom.com/greek_typography.pdf\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-05-02 03:22:28'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Dezcom, that's a great article.  Thanks for posting it.  \r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2007-05-03 22:47:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Paul, I don't need to explain why I deleted my content, as Hrant already has,
    and he knows more about me than I do myself.
  created: '2007-05-03 23:17:37'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: nick, i didn't ask <em>why</em> you did it. i asked <em>if</em> you did it.
    for whatever reason, i feel that deleting posts wholesale is NOT OK. but obviously
    you disagree and i can accept that.
  created: '2007-05-03 23:59:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mathew,\r\nKlimis has a long article in Hy\u03C6en but it is only in Greek.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-05-04 00:02:45'
- author:
    name: panos
  body: "I wouldn't say that there is a dominant typographic trend but I would understand
    the curiosity as sometimes perception could be slightly different than reality.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, there are a lot of highly geometric type families in Greek that are widely
    used as well as many others that are based on chirography that are equally used.
    The difference is on where and how they are used. As G.Trianta remarked, Gill
    Sans Hellenic, DIN Greek, Meta Greek or Myriad could be a trend for a corporate
    or magazine design use, while Warnock, Fedra B, Omonia or our Apollonia (which
    like many GFS type families are designed by T. Katsoulidis) could be a trend for
    a book design.\r\n\r\nAnd again, I totally agree with G.Trianta' quote\r\n\"So,
    do we really need to think in terms of \u201Cnationalistic\u201D or \u201Clatinized\u201D
    or \u201Cexoticized\u201D or whatever designs, rather than thinking in more universal
    terms.\"\r\n\r\n\r\nWhat I would question though, is some information about a
    brief history of Greek script in modern times. Especially, I don't see any relation
    between the social or political status in Greece of the early seventies and Linotype's
    typeface development to a so called \"western\" texture.\r\nThis texture existed
    decades before and had there been an influence on type, this would surely be towards
    a \"non western\" or a more \"exoticized\" direction.\r\nAll Greeks who lived
    that period (1967-74) remember that during the military junta, everything \"western\"
    was considered as a bad influence or even a sub-cultural product.\r\n(Not to mention
    that all english speaking songs were banned from the radio, or that famous records
    such as the Beetles  \"Sgt Pepper's...\" was first released in Greece 8 years
    after its original release and a year after the fall of the dictatorship).\r\nAlso
    anyone would remember these tacky revival parades at the Stadium dressed in ancient
    clothes or like byzantine emperors.\r\nAnd of course, the motto \"We belong to
    the west\" was not repeated then, simply because the first time it was pronounced
    was 4 years after the fall of the dictatorship by the late Karamanlis (uncle of
    today's PM) on his effort to track the country into the European Community and
    back to NATO alliance. Instead, the sound bite used by the colonels was the triangle
    \"state, religion and family\".\r\n\r\nSo, as written above, the Thessaloniki
    conference in June, or even finding some Greek newspapers, books and printed material
    would be a good resource to have a more spherical of what Greeks prefer."
  created: '2007-05-05 09:25:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The overall sociocultural milieu of Greece in the 70s was surely as you describe,
    but I guess that's a testament to the fact that type has been (and still is, although
    to a lesser degree) a hidden subculture, and this made it possible to produce
    highly Latinized designs at that time. This \"covertness\" I guess allowed the
    Greek newspaper people of the 70s to tell Linotype to make those fonts as Western
    as possible without getting in trouble. At least that's the version we always
    hear, including from people like M Carter! I guess it's possible that Linotype
    and its designers would like to deflect \"credit\" for the highly Latinized Greek
    typestyles of the 70s, and in reality it was mostly their idea (probably because
    such a style would have been easier to make for them) but I have to doubt it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-05 14:29:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I guess it\u2019s possible that Linotype and its designers would like
    to deflect \u201Ccredit\u201D for the highly Latinized Greek typestyles of the
    70s, and in reality it was mostly their idea (probably because such a style would
    have been easier to make for them) but I have to doubt it.</em>\r\n\r\nThe design
    programme was very much driven by demand. Mike Parker relates that Linotype were
    approached by a Greek businessman who wanted to be their sales rep in Greece.
    He claimed that he could get Linotype composing machinery into every newspaper
    and typesetting house in Greece if Linotype would undertake to produce any Greek
    typeface requested by the customers. Linotype had no significant Greek type development
    prior to this, and the faces produced were as requested by the Greek customers,
    communicated to Linotype via their sales rep, who apparently succeeded in gaining
    for Linotype virtually the entire Greek type composing market.\r\n\r\nWhy did
    the Greeks want Helvetica, Baskerville, etc.? That is indeed an interesting question
    given the social and political situation of the day. Helvetica is particularly
    interesting because it's associations were not merely western but internationalist
    and linked to a modernist movement with strong socialist links."
  created: '2007-05-06 02:24:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Why did the Greeks want Helvetica, Baskerville, etc.?\r\n\r\nWell the question
    really is why did Greek newspaper men want to be more Western, and the answer
    might be that, considering newspapers tend towards the liberal end of sociopolitical
    thought, they wanted to resist the ideals of the junta, albeit in a subliminal,
    and essentially safe, way. The couldn't publish liberal, dissenting <cite>content</cite>,
    so maybe the typography was turned into a venting mechanism.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-06 03:30:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "A quick check on dates indicates that only Helvetica Greek was released during
    the dictatorship, in 1971. Century Schoolbook was released in 1976, Baskerville
    in 1979, and ITC Souvenir in 1981. All for Mergethaler Linotype's V-I-P system.\r\n\r\nSo
    in large respect the social and cultural situation of the junta years is less
    relevant, except in the case of Helvetica, than the period immediately after.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    Helvetica Greek, what would be interesting to know is when the project was initiated,
    which Greek customer(s) for Linotype systems expressed a desire for this typeface,
    and how it was first used.\r\n\r\nBy 1973, opposition to the military regime had
    become increasingly open both domestically and internationally, and the opposition
    was not limited to left or liberal groups, but included businessmen worried about
    the regime's impact on international investment in Greece and also monarchists
    calling for the return of King Constantine and the establishment of a constitutionally
    legitimate government. It would be interesting to see examples of how Helvetica
    was used during this period, the first couple of years of its introduction in
    the Greek market."
  created: '2007-05-06 22:31:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> only Helvetica Greek was released during the dictatorship\r\n\r\nBut when
    were the other ones <cite>commissioned?</cite>\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-07 01:21:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I doubt if any of them were initiated during the dictatorship. I suppose
    Century Schoolbook might have been initiated in the dying days of the colonels'
    regime, but that suggests a two year development schedule, which would surprise
    me for V-I-P faces.\r\n\r\nMike Parker or Matthew Carter could probably give a
    better idea, or someone with access to Linotype records from that period, if they
    survived. From what I recall, there isn't much about Greek (or Cyrillic) in the
    LT non-Latin archive at Reading."
  created: '2007-05-07 04:46:06'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "on a related note... i just got the <em>Greek Letters: From Tablets to Pixels</em>
    book and saw Matthew Carter's Cadmus Greek for the first time and was shocked
    by the non-descending zeta and xi and the s-shaped final sigma.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cadmuskia_6641.gif]\r\n(sorry
    hrant, i stole your image, or rather recycled it :^)\r\n\r\ni'm guessing if Carter
    did it, it must be something that's acceptable. what say ye?"
  created: '2007-05-24 18:31:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah, one of my favorite images!  :-)\r\n\r\nJohn for one has written about
    Cadmus here before, and I think I remember exactly why he thinks it's not really
    \"authentic\" (and I probably agree) but I'll let him address it again himself
    (or find the old thread). On the other hand, I myself value an effort at authenticity
    even more than actually achieving authenticity, because the latter does not of
    itself preclude a mere mimickry of precedent (which I can't stand) and the \"innocence
    of desire\" is more likely to -eventually- produce real progress.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-24 20:45:28'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/2293#comment-18346\">Here's John's comment</a>
    on Cadmus.\r\n\r\nIt's interesting that this sample is different from the character
    set showing in Greek Letters. The sample above shows a delta without the top stroke,
    another oddity?"
  created: '2007-05-24 21:27:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "This is good thread thank you.\r\n John:\"but that suggests a two year development
    schedule, which would surprise me for V-I-P faces.\"\r\nSurprise you...which way?;)"
  created: '2007-05-25 12:03:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, I wouldn't have thought that developing a Greek face for V-I-P would
    have taken that long, but I don't know exactly what the design-to-manufacturing
    process was.\r\n\r\nI have to say, I really like the idea of a customer coming
    along saying 'We need this typeface!' and being able to respond 'Okay, come back
    in two years and it will be ready'. :)\r\n\r\nPaul, thanks for digging up my previous
    comments on Cadmus. I'm always nervous when someone makes reference to something
    I said e.g. four years ago. Am I going to have to explain why I said it, or why
    I might have changed my mind in the interim? In this case, I think the comments
    pretty much stand. In reference to your comment about the final sigma, I actually
    don't find this a problematic letter in Cadmus: the transition from the top part
    of the final sigma to the descender should be more fluid than the transition in
    zeta and ksi."
  created: '2007-05-25 20:15:25'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I don\u2019t know exactly what the design-to-manufacturing process was.\"\r\nAhhhh.
    It was slow. As slow and meticulous as the letterrdrawing was, the making of plaques
    and then fonts and then proofs took 30-60 days from the time manufacturing got
    the drawings until the office got proofs. Take this and put it in a tube and send
    it to Greece, London or Frankfurt for comments and you'd add another month. Make
    changes, two more months. etc...in 4-6 months you migh have one style...each style
    after that took more time not less, as it most often doesn't today.\r\n\r\n\"I
    really like the idea of a customer coming along saying \u2018We need this typeface!\u2019
    and being able to respond \u2018Okay, come back in two years...\"\r\nLol. yeah
    I never got to say it but it was normal then and customers would say \"AWLRIGHT,
    can't wait!\" Time passed differently too, I think. "
  created: '2007-05-28 12:47:59'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: The claim that newspapers used more Western fonts to protest the regime of
    the generals strikes me as odd. After all, the generals pressed for the use of
    Katharevousa instead of Dimotiki, thus they wanted Greece to purge Turkish words
    from its language - to abandon Eastern influences, and get back to its Western
    roots.
  created: '2011-01-30 01:30:08'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Could this be the right article from Klimis:\r\n\r\n[[http://unic.academia.edu/klimismastoridis/Papers/95382/The_loneliness_of_greek_typography_myth_or_reality]]"
  created: '2011-01-30 01:41:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yes, that is it, John.\r\n\r\nThe Colonels wanted to purge everything in
    that famous way \"ethnic cleansing\".  That is ridiculous you cannot ignore 400
    years of history or pretend their was nothing of value to come of it. \r\nMakes
    me want to find my old Melina Mercouri albums ;-)"
  created: '2011-01-30 04:17:00'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Many things of value happened in world history from 1453 to 1830, and the
    same may be said of the period from 1967 to 1974. However, while I have no love
    for a regime that brought dictatorship to the part of the European continent not
    behind the Iron Curtain in the postwar era (of course, that exaggerates slightly;
    with Franco, and, indeed, Salazar, it was already there), being under the oppressive
    rule of a foreign conqueror did indeed mean that Greeks largely lived from day
    to day from 1453 to 1830, not having the opportunity to build for the future.\r\n\r\nThus,
    while the Portuguese have Brazil, the Greeks missed out on being the first to
    settle, perhaps, Australia. It wasn't a Greek who invented the telescope, or the
    steam locomotive. We don't have a corpus of Greek symphonies and Greek operas
    in the standard repertoire, the way we have German symphonies and Italian operas.
    Or even Russian symphonies and French operas. And so on and so forth - Greece
    is still behind countries like Britain and France because of the debilitating
    effects of that period."
  created: '2011-01-30 17:45:48'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>while the Portuguese have Brazil, the Greeks missed out on being the
    first to settle, perhaps, Australia. [\u2026] Greece is still behind countries
    like Britain and France because of the debilitating effects of that period.</cite>\r\n\r\nBy
    your reasoning, it seems that colonialism is the only way to \u201Cbuild for the
    future\u201D. And, also, Ottoman Empire has Greece. Does it means the \u201Cstandard
    repertoire\u201D should include Ottoman symphonies and operas?"
  created: '2011-01-30 18:15:19'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I certainly agree that it would be wrong to displace innocent people of any
    nationality in order to provide Greece with a supply of <em>Lebensraum</em>. We
    live in a tragically overcrowded world today, where there is no chance for Greece,
    or Finland, or Armenia, or Estonia, or the Basque and Bretagne regions, and so
    on and so forth, to grow and flower into major world powers on the scale of France
    or Britain, Germany or Russia.\r\n\r\nUltimately, with advances in education and
    literacy, indeed, not only the Turks, but each linguistic group in India or Africa
    similarly somehow needs the chance to flower into a fully developed nation with
    cutting-edge science and technology, and an economic substrate that supports a
    vibrant cultural life - so that they would contribute to world science and culture...
    as, say, Japan is doing, in the electronics industry and with anime.\r\n\r\nIn
    the foreseeable future, space travel won't help this; a colony on Mars would likely
    be English-speaking."
  created: '2011-01-30 19:11:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Many things of value happened in world history from 1453 to 1830...\"\r\nand
    one of those things is that Greece learned to survive extreme difficulty. They
    also learned what it felt like to be conquered.  This is something unknown in
    Alexander's reign of conquest. The soul of a person, as well as a country, is
    made by knowing that glory is not won on a battlefield or marked by territory
    taken or great works heralded, in years of superiority. It is made more by the
    recovery from trying times, the will to return from agony, and yet the true fortitude
    to forgive your transgressors as others have forgiven your transgressions. Strength
    is knowing you have survived to grow better rather than to perpetuate eternal
    hatred. \r\nAs with every other conquered people in history, the Greeks worked
    much harder and learned much more under oppression than they did when Alexander
    and his father raised their swords in victory.\r\nThere is a point where the hatred
    must stop so that the understanding can begin or else we are all doomed to repeat
    the endless brutal cycle until we are all extinguished from life.\r\n\r\nGreeks
    can now move on and write symphonies and operas, because they have learned both
    sides of passion and that forgiveness is the greatest gift we can offer."
  created: '2011-01-30 19:28:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '[Chris, it is worth remembering, since you cite Philip and Alexander, that
    they were very much seen by the Greeks as Macedonian invaders and conquerors,
    despite the strong cultural ties between the two peoples. It was only later that
    Alexander''s conquests in the East were framed in terms of ''Hellenism'' and celebrated
    as Greek triumphs. Even before the military invasion of Greece and the forced
    submission of the ancient city states to Macedonian rule, there were periods of
    anti-Macedonian feeling in Athens, incited by the rhetoric of orators such as
    Demosthenes. Aristotle''s periods of residence in his northern homeland appear
    to correspond with these outbreaks of anti-Macedonian sentiment in Athens. Philosophers
    go home!]'
  created: '2011-01-30 20:45:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nAthens and Sparta is yet another example.\r\n\r\nAt what price,
    glory.\r\n\r\nYes, and Americans fought a Civil War.  One day your enemy will
    be your brother; one day your brother will be your enemy; a better day is when
    everyone is your brother and no one is your enemy.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-30 20:56:28'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Well, I do not want to be a conqueror. I want to be a liberator.\r\n\r\nSo
    I don't want everyone forced to learn to speak English just to have a decent selection
    of books to read or movies to watch or popular music to listen to.\r\n\r\nEvery
    nation should be free. Not conquering and dominating other nations, but free and
    prosperous in its own right. Right now, though, there is not enough world for
    so many nations to function. A few lucky ones have more than their share of space,
    and thus have been able to thrive.\r\n\r\nI see this as a bad thing with the potential
    for causing more human misery. For example, if a government commits aggression,
    in a world where people thirst for resources, the temptation upon defeating the
    government to strip the nation and its people of their territory will be strong."
  created: '2011-01-30 23:08:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Thus, while the Portuguese have Brazil, the Greeks missed out on being
    the first to settle, perhaps, Australia. It wasn't a Greek who invented the telescope,
    or the steam locomotive. We don't have a corpus of Greek symphonies and Greek
    operas in the standard repertoire, the way we have German symphonies and Italian
    operas.\"\r\n\r\nWow! I guess the first swarm of bees to release is that it's
    pretty much agreed by historians and ethnicists that the people inhabiting Greece
    from the 15th to the 19th centuries a.d. were not much related, if at all, to
    the people inhabiting Greece from the 7th c b.c to the 1st c a.d... That much
    happened. Greeks don't like to hear this, so sorry if it offends modern Greeks.\r\n\r\nSwarm
    of bees two then, is that we have no idea what places were settled and what things
    were invented written and sung by the descendants of those who lived in Greece
    before the 2nd century a.d. Non Greeks don't like to hear this, and sorry if this
    offends non Greeks. Who's to know that James Watt's family, 25 generations before
    the steam engine, didn't land in England with the name Pompendropolotapus, the
    neighbors said \"Say what?\" and changed their name to Watt?\r\n\r\nAnd isn't
    that Greek type conferees held on Cyprus now?"
  created: '2011-01-31 10:39:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...James Watt's family, 25 generations before the steam engine, didn't
    land in England with the name Pompendropolotapus, the neighbors said \"Say what?\"
    ...\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!!, and then 150 years later I guy from rural Georgia shouts
    back, \"Watt I say...\"\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2011-01-31 14:13:18'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@dberlow:\r\n<cite>I guess the first swarm of bees to release is that it's
    pretty much agreed by historians and ethnicists that the people inhabiting Greece
    from the 15th to the 19th centuries a.d. were not much related, if at all, to
    the people inhabiting Greece from the 7th c b.c to the 1st c a.d... That much
    happened. Greeks don't like to hear this, so sorry if it offends modern Greeks.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    can imagine that during periods of foreign conquest, there was sexual exploitation
    of the downtrodden population, leading to admixture of foreign ancestry.\r\n\r\nBut
    where would the ancient Greeks have gone? Sure, a few of them may have wound up
    as Pharaohs in Egypt, or slaves in Rome, but if the modern Greeks have little
    or nothing to do with the ancient Greeks, <em>why are they even speaking Greek?</em>\r\n\r\nOr
    is it that prior to the 15th Century, Greece was such a prosperous place that
    it was a magnet for immigrants who adopted the language?\r\n\r\nA bit of research
    allowed me to find one page claiming that in Nuristan in Afghanistan, a group
    of Greeks left behind by Alexander survived.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile, on another web
    page, some Macedonians (the Yugoslav kind), annoyed (in my opinion, entirely justifiably)
    that Greece does not like what they want to name their country, are claiming that
    the ancient Greeks were wiped out, and Greece was a country full of Bulgarians,
    Albanians, Christian refugees from Turkey (Armenians?), and something called \"Vlahs\"...
    but, apparently, no Greeks. But it could be they're not objective."
  created: '2011-01-31 23:40:32'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Ah. Some more web searching allowed me to determine that the people sometimes
    called Vlahs or Vlachs are not dimension travellers from Vlah, but are in fact
    the Arumanians, a small ethnic minority, formerly nomadic cattle breeders, in
    Macedonia (the one certain nationalist Greeks refer to as FYROM).
  created: '2011-02-01 00:02:59'
date: '2007-04-30 19:03:59'
node_type: forum
title: current Greek typographic trends?

---
