---
author:
  name: Monoecus
body: "I need a classical opentype font that supports both Western and [[Hebrew]]
  encoding. It is intended to use that font for reciting biblical texts, so I need
  a hebrew font that also supports accents.\r\n\r\nAny suggestion is highly appreciated.\r\n\r\nMany
  thanks,\r\nCarlo"
comments:
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Typophiler and multiscript expert John Hudson has done <a href=\"http://www.bible-researcher.com/sblhebrew.html\">SBL
    Biblical Hebrew</a>, which is free. \r\n\r\nTypophiler <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/search?search%5Btext%5D=David+Hamuel\">David
    Hamuel</a> has recently released a number of beautiful Hebrew fonts. I don't know
    if they have cantillation marks. \r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.masterfont.co.il/\">MasterFont</a>
    is I think the biggest Hebrew foundry, and some of their fonts have the Bibilical
    cantillation marks in them. <a href=\"http://www.fontbit.co.il/\">Fontbit</a>
    is another Hebrew foundry with many fonts. \r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-01 16:37:44'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: Thank you  Bill. No, no cantillation marks. I don't think you'll find retail
    font with cantillation. So, I'll go with SBL or Adobe Hebrew (InDesign CS2 ME).
  created: '2007-05-01 18:12:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Adobe Hebrew does not support cantillation, only vocalisation.\r\n\r\nThe
    current release version of SBL Hebrew does not include Latin characters, only
    Hebrew. The next version (v2.00) will include Latin characters from the SBL BibLit
    to provide accurate codepage support. But depending on the style of Latin you
    are looking for and the kind of relationship to the Hebrew, you might be able
    to find a good companion font for the current version of SBL Hebrew."
  created: '2007-05-02 03:29:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Oh, another way to go that is not open type, but will do Latin, Hebrew vowels
    and cantillation markes is are the dedicated bilingual word processors, <a href=<http://www.davka.com/cgi-bin/product.cgi?product=367>Davka
    Writer</a> and <a href=\"http://www.jewishsoftware.com/products/Dagesh_Pro_IV_52.asp\">Dagesh</a>.\r\n\r\nThe
    problem with these is that offset printers may not be able to use their files.
    If you are only printing out things on a laser printer for small distribution,
    then these programs are very useful. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-02 04:17:03'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Adobe Hebrew does not....\r\n\r\nahh, I know :)   (or Adobe Hebrew (InDesign
    CS2 ME) -- opentype font that supports both Western and Hebrew encoding)\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    If you are only printing out things on a laser printer for small distribution....\r\n\r\nor
    Publish to PDF (Dagesh)"
  created: '2007-05-02 06:40:54'
- author:
    name: Monoecus
  body: "Many thanks David, William and John. I am surprised that there are not more
    commercial fonts including hebrew. Whereas Adobe and many others now publish their
    new fonts with Greek and Cyrillic letters, Hebrew is unfortunately still rare.
    Maybe the market is just too small.\r\n\r\nNevertheless, many thanks for your
    helpful comments,\r\nCarlo"
  created: '2007-05-02 09:59:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">not more commercial fonts including hebrew. \r\n\r\nThere are tons of commercial
    Hebrew fonts. As I said there are many fonts from MasterFont, FontBit, and indivivual
    designers like David Hamuel and John Hudson. Also sets of fonts, both Hebrew and
    Latin that come with both Davka Writer and Dagesh. What is harder to come by is
    those fonts that do not just nikud (vowel points) but also the cantillation marks.
    Since this is only used in Bible texts, it is more specialized. However, Davka
    Writer and Dagesh both have the capacity to put in cantillation marks. \r\n\r\nAs
    to what Latin to match to what Hebrew, that is more or less a creative decision
    you will have to make. \r\n\r\nAlso I am not clear when you say 'recite' Bible
    texts whether you meant 'chant' using cantillation marks, as I had supposed, or
    simply read out phonetically, in which case just the vowel points (nikud) will
    do, and many Hebrew fonts have these. MasterFonts, for example, has 50 opoen type
    fonts that they say will perfectly place Nikud. John Hudson's and David Hamuel's
    fonts will also do this very well. "
  created: '2007-05-02 14:49:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> that is more or less a creative decision\r\n\r\nIt's more a technical decision.\r\nYou
    have to understand how scripts are built and used deep down.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-02 21:56:58'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "FontWorld (www.fontworld.com) is releasing a professional Biblical Hebrew
    publishing package for Macintosh or Windows that has both traditional and semi-modern
    Hebrew font designs (FrankReuhl and Hadasa, in regular and bold). They also feature
    two different kinds of shva-na characters (popularly used by different publishers),
    the komatz katan and the hataf komatz katan.\r\n\r\nFontWorld also offers a broader
    range of Biblical Hebrew fonts (Vilna in various weights) for typesetting projects
    at competitive prices."
  created: '2007-06-10 17:52:34'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: FontWorld has released this already.
  created: '2008-08-03 18:27:15'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "<a>Many thanks David, William and John. I am surprised that there are not
    more commercial fonts including hebrew. Whereas Adobe and many others now publish
    their new fonts with Greek and Cyrillic letters, Hebrew is unfortunately still
    rare. Maybe the market is just too small.\r\n\r\nNevertheless, many thanks for
    your helpful comments,\r\nCarlo</a>\r\n\r\nIt's a lie. There're more Hebrews font
    in Windows 7. Arial, Lucida Sans, Segoe, Verdana have Hebrew characters. I got
    many script, displau, futuristic, etc Hebrew fonts from Wazu, they're all free.
    Here's the link:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.wazu.jp/gallery/Fonts_Hebrew.html"
  created: '2010-10-16 07:29:08'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "It depends to what level of positioning of Hebrew diacritics that you want.
    \r\n\r\nThe best suggestion that has been made is actually DavkaWriter. It exports
    pdf and there should be no problem with commercial printers (from my experience).\r\n\r\nObviously
    if you want a much higher level of typography, then it's not going to be cheap
    or easy. Even the Koren typeface is only 99% automatic (VOLT couldn't compile
    any more code) and you'll need extra software for that 1% (we had some created
    for in-house use and is in alpha).\r\n\r\nSBL Hebrew is also a direction, but
    for a refined eye on trop, it's not really the answer, but this depends on the
    use.\r\n\r\nFontworld has made some progress, but from their website images, the
    positioning is no better than SBL Hebrew (not that this is a bad thing, but it's
    at that level).\r\n\r\nThe best solutions are customised I'm afraid and not just
    out of the box. "
  created: '2010-10-17 10:52:02'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> Fontworld has made some progress, but from their website images, the positioning
    is no better than SBL Hebrew (not that this is a bad thing, but it's at that level).\r\n\r\nFontWorld's
    new generation (version 2) provides the high end or Rolls Royce of everything
    you wanted in a Hebrew/Latin font. They are scheduled for release\r\nfor Chanukah
    5771, or December 2010.\r\n\r\nThey come in two flavors:  \r\n1) \"Enhanced\",
    with vowels and the meteg accent mark, \r\nwith English and Latin characters;\r\n2)
    \"Biblical Hebrew\", with all vowels and the meteg accent mark, \r\nall cantillation
    marks, two shva-nas, extended characters.\r\nwith Yiddish, English and Latin characters.\r\n\r\nQuality
    comes with a price.\r\n\"Enhanced\" begins at $299 to $350.\r\n\"Biblical Hebrew\"
    begins at $750 to $5000.\r\n\r\nMultiple font discounts apply.\r\nSite licenses
    available.\r\nEducational discounts available.\r\n\r\nThese fonts are guaranteed
    to operate fully\r\nin Adobe InDesign ME CS3, CS4, CS5 and beyond.\r\n\r\nContact
    'info@fontworld.com'"
  created: '2010-10-21 02:48:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Raphael: <em>SBL Hebrew is also a direction, but for a refined eye on trop,
    it's not really the answer, but this depends on the use.</em>\r\n\r\nI'd be interested
    to know what you consider the shortcomings or limitations of appropriate use of
    SBL Hebrew to be. I am aware of some problems with spacing of adjacent letters
    with multiple dots, which is not optimised in the current versions of the font.
    I started work on a different approach to these situations, but have not had time
    to pursue it.\r\n\r\nIn general terms, SBL Hebrew seeks to provide mark positioning
    that corresponds to expectations of scholars working with various editions of
    the masoretic text, in particular those based on the Leningrad Codex (the German
    Bible Society BHK and BHS, and Professor Dotan's BHL). I've also cross-referenced
    with the JPS Tanakh."
  created: '2010-10-21 04:30:39'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Gohebrew, are you serious????? $750 to $5000 dollars????\r\nwhich means 3000
    to 20,000 Israeli Shekels??????\r\nman, on what planet are they living???????\r\n\r\n\r\nJ.Hudson
    , your current SBL project is good enough for viewing Biblical text on a screen.\r\nI
    don't think that anyone with basic understanding of hebrew typography would use
    SBL for print as a first choice.\r\nother than that, Remember that Rephael is
    a YEKE when it comes to these things."
  created: '2010-10-24 06:42:18'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "J.Hudson, Let me clearify.\r\n2 basic problems with your positioning.\r\n\r\nA.
    the diacritics should always be in place and the Taam after it, only when absolutly
    necessary you move back or forth the nikud so the nikud and taam work.\r\n\r\nB.
    Nikud and teamim are secondary, you should never insert thin spaces or wide spaces
    to solve dibukim. doing so results devision of word in to two words.\r\n\r\nC.
    also your basic positioning of single nikud or single taam are ton accurate in
    some cases.\r\n\r\nD. Taam Mukdam should come befor the letter and not alligned
    to the right of the letter, but that is less important\r\n\r\nC. PATAH GANUV should
    be optional and not forced. \r\n\r\nE. the font does not destinguish between holam
    male and haser.\r\n\r\nComments A&B are my main critiques on the SBL_Hebrew font."
  created: '2010-10-24 07:21:04'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\n>>>   Gohebrew, are you serious????? $750 to $5000 dollars????\r\nwhich
    means 3000 to 20,000 Israeli Shekels??????\r\nman, on what planet are they living???????\r\n\r\nFor
    low end low quality, there is DavkaWriter.\r\nFor non-professionals, there is
    SBL-Hebrew. Commercial licenses are available to those who seek to publish the
    SBL non-standard deign.\r\n\r\nFont World aims at the customer who intend to make
    much income from the GH fonts. To them, this is not costly.\r\n\r\nThere is also
    FontBit, Ofek, Masterfont. But the results are hit or miss. You get what you paid
    for."
  created: '2010-10-24 11:40:09'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "SBL is beautiful, a result of knowledge and craftmanship. But few if any
    Jewish publishers would use it.\r\n\r\nRaphael, with all his vast knowledge in
    Hebrew typography is too overwhelmed with Koren's work on his Bible, and ignores
    many centuries of Jewish publishing."
  created: '2010-10-24 11:44:22'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Gohebrew: \r\nfontbit has no fonts supporting taamey mikra except Livorno
    Regular.\r\nfrom what i understued from them, it's simply not worth it for them
    to get involved and givig extreem support. in other words for now they feel they
    don't need to be the ones solving this issue.\r\n\r\nMasterfont have some fonts
    developed by Yehuda Brum and work much better than what you call \"hit or miss\"\r\n\r\n\r\nTell
    me what do you consider quality fonts that make them so much more than the masterfont
    fonts???\r\n\r\nSBL_Hebrew is infact a beautiful type face\r\nA bold weight would
    do it good (but again, whats the point if its not made for comercial perposes)\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: elfersi
    body: "Hi Typograph,\r\nCould you please provide a link to Livorno Regular?\r\nMany
      thanks"
    created: '2014-07-27 18:02:23'
  created: '2010-10-24 14:53:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thanks for the comments re. SBL Hebrew, Eli. These are useful criticisms.\r\n\r\nI
    expect some differences of practice based on different user communities: SBL Hebrew
    was primarily made for scholars who are either Christians or otherwise working
    within an academic tradition that has certain expectations based on previous editions
    and typography (BHK, BHS, etc.), and I do see more movement of vowel+accent combinations
    as units in that than in Jewish publications.\r\n\r\nWith regard to some specific
    points:\r\n\r\n<em>B. Nikud and teamim are secondary, you should never insert
    thin spaces or wide spaces to solve dibukim. doing so results devision of word
    in to two words.</em>\r\n\r\nThe method used to avoid mark collisions in the current
    release versions of SBL Hebrew is indeed crude, and I've never been very happy
    with it. I've started work on a more refined approach, involving more precise
    contextual kerning adjustments. In cases where, for instance, two narrow letters
    both have marks below and these crows each other, what would you consider the
    preferred solution?\r\n\r\n<em>C. PATAH GANUV should be optional and not forced.</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    is active by default in the OpenType lookups, but can be turned off by selectively
    disabling the Contextual Alternates OTL feature in e.g. InDesign. There's no way
    to turn this off in Microsoft apps, but since this typographic feature is standard
    in the texts the SBL users are most commonly working with, it is expected to be
    on by default.\r\n\r\n<em>E. the font does not destinguish between holam male
    and haser.</em>\r\n\r\nIt does. See page 16 of the <a href=\"http://www.sbl-site.org/Fonts/SBLHebrewUserManual1.5x.pdf\">SBL
    Hebrew user manual</a>."
  created: '2010-10-24 20:54:00'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>For low end low quality, there is DavkaWriter.\r\nFor non-professionals,
    there is SBL-Hebrew. Commercial licenses are available to those who seek to publish
    the SBL non-standard deign.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Font World aims at the customer
    who intend to make much income from the GH fonts. To them, this is not costly.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou
    will forgive me, I am a young man, only 65 year old. Somehow, when I left teaching
    and started a business as a typesetter working in scholarly publishing, I missed
    the part where scholars made so much money. Perhaps I should start teaching again,
    to get all those fancy cars, mansions, fine dining, etc..\r\n\r\nWhen a fair-sized
    west coast university press informed us that in order for everyone at their press
    to keep their jobs, they would, for the time being have to set all their books
    in house, I offered to help them, for free, any way I could, so they could keep
    publishing texts more complex that \"see spot run.\"\r\n\r\nI know what planet
    you live on. It is the Ronnie Regan trickle-down one. Too bad not much trickles
    down.\r\n\r\nKudos here belong to John Hudson, who is at least trying."
  created: '2010-10-24 21:33:41'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\nAsk if a Lincoln can match a Honda? But it does the same for
    less. So, buy a Honda then.\r\n\r\nThis is the analogy between Font World's professional
    quality typeface software, and inexpensive MasterFont fonts. You seem to claim
    that they work 100% now. I got Narkissim last week, and it had missing glyphs
    and worked poorly. Bt it was $58 each, 2 for $45 each, and so on\r\n\r\nIf you
    need a font to make you much money, a font that costs you 1% of net is very little.
    This is high end. Masterfont is for the low end."
  created: '2010-10-24 21:36:18'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Charles,\r\n\r\nWelcome.\r\n\r\n>>>   You will forgive me, I am a young man,
    only 65 year old. Somehow, when I left teaching and started a business as a typesetter
    working in scholarly publishing, I missed the part where scholars made so much
    money. Perhaps I should start teaching again, to get all those fancy cars, mansions,
    fine dining, etc..\r\n\r\n\r\nMF, DW, etc. is intended for small budgets, scholars,
    etc.\r\n\r\nFont World is really best suited with profession commercial publishers
    who don't get concerned about the pricings.\r\n\r\nFor scholars or college, the
    price is reduced usually by 50%."
  created: '2010-10-24 21:46:00'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: Btw, many Christian schools who had SBL wanted to upgrade to our versions
    of FrankReuhl and Hadasa (Henri). The prices were cut in half, and we included
    site licenses.
  created: '2010-10-24 21:48:40'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Gohebrew: \r\nI was just askung for toy to point out the differenes between
    your fonts and masterfont's fonts.\r\nwhat are the elements that make your fonts
    so much better than the masterfont fonts???\r\n\r\nYou say you biught the basic
    font bt masterfont for $58 that is a price for a font supporting Nikud Only.\r\naccourdeing
    to mt knowledge, a font from master font that supports postiong of ttamim cost
    more like $450 (not including MAM);\r\n\r\nanother question to go hebrew.\r\nI
    have a script that goes through the entier TANAKH and checks for dibukim, how
    do you check for dibukim??? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-25 09:25:05'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Actually $5K is quite cheap if the font really does what gohebrew says it
    does.\r\n\r\nFontbit's Livorna trop was developed for me for a project that I
    started some years ago and is near completion (not for Koren). The collisions
    have to be handled though with external scripts (latest incarnation is harbs'
    glyph mover).\r\n\r\nMasterfont can sell you Koren Tanakh Bold with correct nikud
    positioning (well correct according to me :-) ) which handles 99% of situations,
    but due to limitations in Volt, there will still be the occasional tweaking. But
    the price is in the same range as gohebrew.\r\n\r\nSorry folks, but these kind
    of fonts are very expensive for commercial use, but I must reiterate, DavkaWriter
    does a very good job and is a small fraction of the price, but is a different
    target audience to those with a budget of $5K for a typeface."
  created: '2010-10-26 14:56:07'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Alphabetum Unicode is $15, and includes cantillation marks, although I can't
    say how well it works. Code 2000, also shareware for $5, does also. And Ezra SIL,
    Marin, and SBL Hebrew, which are free, include cantillation marks as well.\r\n\r\nThese
    are all mentioned and linked to from the Wazu site mentioned above."
  created: '2014-07-27 18:27:31'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@elfersi: [[http://www.fontbit.com/commercial/fonts/new-livorno-mf-medium.htm]]
    (Ware: I do not know if this is the exact one mentioned above or a reworked version.)'
  created: '2014-07-28 23:28:48'
date: '2007-05-01 08:54:15'
title: Hebrew Font

---
