---
author:
  name: sanapres
body: "I was looking for some information on Post Modern type. I need to know the
  characteristics, the approximate date of their creation, and an example typeface.\r\n\r\nI've
  done several searches on and looked through all the design books for my typography
  course. I still can't seem to find anything on it. Any help or nudge in the right
  direction would be very much appreciated!"
comments:
- author:
    name: martinlofqvist
    picture: 109640
  body: "I would say that we are in a middle of a post modern typographic trend. Seems
    that everyone is doing their own characters based on the topic.\r\n\r\nI.e. check
    out the swedish super skilled girls behind Hj\xE4rta Sm\xE4rta at http://www.woo.se/.
    They have done some very skilled and cool things that at least I concider post
    modern.\r\nThen try to find a typeface called Found type, don't remeber who donnit
    but another swede (jenny m\xF6rtsell) have done a similar thing http://www.jennysportfolio.com
    \r\nA third swedish girl, hey whats up with our girls!, did a very cool typeface
    for her graduation project. She actually had the first ones as mentors I belive.
    You can see an 'a' here:  http://www.andyland.se/product.asp?product=125&sub=16&page=1\r\n\r\nWhen
    it comes to the more theoretical parts maybe you should have a look at \xC5b\xE4kes
    work? http://a.b.a.k.e.free.fr \r\nNot so much there, but they have a very clear
    agenda and produces some very distinct work that often incorporates po-mo typo.\r\n\r\n\r\nHope
    I didn't missunderstand what you where looking for. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-02 08:28:17'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Well since some years from the 60s (or mid-80s) are passed, I guess you have
    to define your term of Postmodernity \u2014\u2014 Post Modern type, to me, is
    a very noisy and crowded indoor space.\r\nShall Postmodernism reject boundaries
    between high and low forms of art, reject rigid genre distinctions, emphasizing
    pastiche, parody, bricolage, irony, and playfulness ?\r\nShall Postmodern art
    (and thought) favor reflexivity and self-consciousness, fragmentation and discontinuity
    (e.g. in narrative structures), ambiguity, simultaneity, and an emphasis on the
    destructured, decentered, dehumanized subject ?"
  created: '2007-05-02 08:45:33'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I am really really doubt that there is or has been such a thing as postmodern
    type. The closest thing to postmodern type might have been the FUSE experiments
    but really I don't think even that was post modern. Some people think some of
    Johnathan Barnbrook's type is postmodern. I don't think so.\r\n\r\nBut It sounds
    to me like you want your homework done for you and I can't get behind that. You
    are not asking an informed question. You just want to be served.\r\n\r\nTo the
    teacher who assigned this topic: Are you serious?"
  created: '2007-05-02 09:23:07'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Ah, forgot about kind people of Post Typography :\r\nhttp://www.posttypography.com/alphabet/"
  created: '2007-05-02 09:36:09'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'Try reading through <em>No More Rules: Postmodernism and Graphic Design</em>
    by Rick Poynor. Once you figure out where postmodernism kicks in figuring out
    what typefaces fit in is pretty simple. At least it is until you get to stuff
    from the last couple of years, which are too new to be declared postmodern by
    historians :)'
  created: '2007-05-02 13:36:49'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "<cite>...reject rigid genre distinctions, emphasizing pastiche, parody, bricolage...</cite>\r\n\r\nTo
    me any poorly executed digitization of an twentieth-century revival of a historical
    typeface comes to mind. But then I'm not sure where to draw the line between where
    things are postmodern by design, or postmodern because of the environment in which
    they were created."
  created: '2007-05-02 14:21:24'
- author:
    name: sanapres
  body: "Thanks for all of the information everyone. I can't tell you how much I appreciate
    it.  You  guys are the best!\r\n\r\nmartinlofqvist, I'll definitely take a look
    at those sites.  jpad, thanks so much for pointing me in the direction of that
    book. I had looked everywhere for information on Post Modern type and nothing
    was coming up. I had even asked another one of my design professors and they gave
    me a weird look.\r\n\r\nEben Sorkin, while I appreciate your help, I did not like
    the way you insinuated I wanted my homework done for me. I am a second year design
    student and I thought that after exhausting all of my personal textbooks, the
    small selection of type books at my school's library, and the internet that I
    could get some assistance here. No where in my question did I ask for anyone to
    do my assignment; I asked for direction. I thought this place would be an open,
    friendly place to learn about typography from people other than my professors.
    \ "
  created: '2007-05-02 21:29:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Poliphilus, created by Harry Lawrence in 1923, from shots of a 1495 book.
    \r\nA relatively new medium, photography, was used to mechanically appropriate
    the genius of a type founder working in a far older technology. A postmodern,
    curation-as-art methodology, with the reproduced artefact becoming a hollow simulacrum
    of its original self. Type revival as recontextualization. "
  created: '2007-05-02 21:51:57'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I am sorry if I offened you. You are right I went too far. \r\n\r\nThe thing
    I have against this kind of assignment is that if your teacher had been able to
    show you what postmodern means then you would not have to take it from a book
    or a person that a typeface ( or song or book ) is postmodern - it would be something
    you could detect for yourself. And if you saw a false claim you could detect that
    too. But you haven't been given the idea of what Post Modern is. It's sort of
    unfair in a way. Or tough.\r\n\r\nThink about it this way: Can you look at a typeface
    an decide for yourself if it looks Venetian, Aldine or Egypitine to you? If you
    study type history a little it can become pretty easy.\r\n\r\nLook here & you
    will be able to:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/courses/type101\r\n\r\nHowever I
    am arguing that postmodern is not detectable in the same way. Not at all. It's
    not like apples & oranges it's like apples and civilizations. It is a whole different
    thing. \r\n\r\nWhat you can already say without understanding postmodern ideas
    very well is 'this font seems to be the result of a sort of postmodern sentiment'.
    Or you could say 'here is a font using pastiche - so is that pomo?' \r\n\r\nThats
    the sort of thing which will get you further. But It isn't what you were asked
    to do. And won't ansswer you question very well even if it's a start.\r\n\r\n<cite>weird
    looks </cite>\r\n\r\nThe reason you may have goten that look could be:\r\n\r\na)
    they don't think it exists\r\nb) the don't think it should exist\r\nc) they are
    looking for a most specific kind of question like the kind I gave eamples of above.\r\nd)
    It doesn't exist\r\ne) They might wish your other teacher would give reasonable
    assignments\r\n\r\nI am not they guy to explain Pomo to you. Still, since I insulted
    you I will do my best to give you my take on it. I will warn you that you should
    take it with some salt & look around for a better explanation. And maybe read
    some Derida.\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jacques_Derrida\r\n\r\nTo do
    it I will comment on some previous posts:\r\n\r\n<cite> Type revival as recontextualization.
    </cite>\r\n\r\nThis isn't really pomo. Not Caslon is a a pomo-ish title. The designer
    may have been influenced by pomo sentiments. But I don't know that the font is
    pomo. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.emigre.com/EFfeature.php?di=111.\r\n\r\n I say that because
    I think pastiche is not enough in itself to label a typeface as 'Pomo'. There
    would have to be intent. \r\n\r\n<cite> curation-as-art methodology </cite> \r\n\r\nCuration
    is not type.\r\n\r\n<cite>But then I\u2019m not sure where to draw the line between
    where things are postmodern by design, or postmodern because of the environment
    in which they were created.</cite>\r\n\r\nHere the distiction should be made between
    the aesthetics or qualities that resulted from post modern ideas and impulses
    and the ideas and impulses themselves. Design cannot be Pomo but the content/narrative
    in a design ( magazine, greeting card, whatever) can be aesthetically reinforced
    by Design. This can be done by employing pastiche, rejection of genre distictions,
    etc. \r\n\r\nSo far I have just ben negating things. There should be a postive
    example as well. \r\n\r\nI think Pomo is a little bit like Murder vs. Manslaughter.
    If there is intent it's Murder/Pomo. If there isn't it's maybe Pastiche or Parody
    or Ambiguous - but it's not Pomo. Sorry my 'postive' example is murder.\r\n\r\nPut
    in less bloody terms; Pomo implies and requires either an audience that receives
    the intent of an author/maker, a viewer that constructs a narative on his/her
    own, or just an author with intent. Immediately the wole thing is complex and
    gets ever more complex. It's that complexity that creates a sense that ambiguity
    ( as opposed to modern objectivity ) is inherently inevitable. \r\n\r\nAlso, identification
    of something as Pomo automatically sets up narative and a triagulation of the
    labeler, the object in question, and the maker or author - even if the maker is
    labeler. \r\n\r\nSo; no narrative - no Pomo.\r\n\r\nStories have narratives. Films
    may have them. Art can (or not). \r\n\r\nBut Type does not. \r\n\r\nA promotion
    of type could be postmodern. But they type cannot be. It's too simple a thing.
    \r\n\r\nHere is one last example: Iron or even Iron compounds are not an organism.
    But Iron or Iron compounds can be in an organism. Pomo is complex like an organism.
    Type is simple like Iron compounds. You wouldn't ask if a compund of Iron had
    Ape-like qualities would you? But You need Iron to make Apes.\r\n\r\nAgain, sorry
    if I irked you. Hopefully this is of some help. \r\n\r\nBTW: the post modern thing
    to do now would be to ask your teacher why he/she gave you this assignment and
    what the intent of it was. And then to deconstruct that intent, to spectulate
    on the way in which the assignment related to the history of the teacher's life,
    and to indicate the subjective value the assignment had for you while acknowleging
    that your opinion is not well informed enough, while also admitting that the narritive
    you are constructing cannot help but be constructed - however unobjective it may
    be."
  created: '2007-05-03 21:27:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Cut-and-paste is a technique which lends itself to postmodernism. Two iconic
    post-modern faces of the grunge/deconstruction era are Dead History and Fudoni.
    Both are pointed mash-ups, even named to draw attention to their critical raison
    d'\xEAtre.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-03 22:24:55'
- author:
    name: sanapres
  body: "Eben, thanks for the apology and the help. I had a feeling Post Modern was
    going to be a little complicated. I agree that I hate this sort of assignment,
    too, but I\u2019m stuck doing them. I think she feels the need to pile on more
    work.  \r\n\r\nDuring my course, we had studied the usual type classifications
    like Old Style, Transitional, etc., but never once did my professor mention Post
    Modern as a classification in any of our lectures. This was part of a very, very
    long essay for the end of the semester, supposedly hitting on all of the important
    things we had gone over. But it was never covered in any form so it was a bit\u2026odd.
    \r\n\r\nThe analogies helped a lot. I was looking through one of the books recommended
    to me on here and I saw that it had all sorts of typefaces in it\u2014from all
    different classifications, making it impossible to pin down one specific typeface,
    year, characteristic, etc. Your explanation made it clearer.\r\n\r\nHahah\u2026you
    have me half-tempted to ask my professor why she gave us the assignment, deconstruct
    it, and write her a note. She\u2019ll probably just glare at me.  \r\n"
  created: '2007-05-04 00:26:17'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Let her glare. Maybe you can save a whole class! ;-)\r\n\r\nAnyway. I am
    glad to be of help.\r\n\r\nI do want to be clear that I am absolutely sympathetic
    to an educator wanting to touch on this topic in some way - especially if they
    want or need to appear current at the institution where they are teaching. But
    I would suggest that she talk about the influence of Pomo thinking, attitudes
    and culture on graphic design and type rather than refer vaguely to Pomo itself
    which is a bit of an endless pit if you approach it with any seriousness at all.\r\nPomo
    visual tropes* are plentiful; so stringing together examples of Pomo influence
    is not hard. \r\n\r\n* ( a visual trope is a familiar and repeated symbol, meme,
    theme, motif, style, character or thing permeating visual culture. 'Trope' is
    a word adapted from literary criticism and pretty indespensable for really talking
    about Pomo.)\r\n\r\n<cite>  lends itself to postmodernism </cite>\r\n\r\nOr I
    might say 'lends itself to post modern flavor of expression'; but yes. \r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand cut & paste also let itself to Dada art on the one hand and to
    Decoupage a form of decoration on the other. \r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decoupage
    \r\n\r\nCutting & pasting or other forms of obviously artificial juxtoposion in
    Pomo oriented works is there to point out the presence, manipulation, provisionality,
    and artificiality of narrative.\r\n\r\nSee also \r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deconstruction\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-04 02:02:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Dalliance_3508.jpg]\r\nDalliance by Frank
    Heine: the italic is based on lettering from a map of around 1800, the roman is,
    mostly, those italic forms, backslanted to upright."
  created: '2007-05-04 05:53:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This topic has merit, but personally I have trouble getting over the discomfort
    of associating the hooliganism of the 90s with PoMo. I see so much amazing potential
    in PoMo type, but so very little of what most people claim is PoMo type is actually
    worth mentioning, much less admiring.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-04 06:28:28'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "\r\nBy all means ask your teacher why she gave the assignment - or whatever
    else you want to ask her. Point being that teachers are not omniscient quasi-deities,
    but resources and guides to be engaged. (This seems very obvious to me now, but
    unfortunately took me a long time to realize.)\r\n\r\nAlso, you may not like the
    assignment or think she's piling on work, but just in this thread I've learned
    a lot and the discussion is fascinating. Try embracing the assignment and making
    it your own, instead of trying to figure out exactly what a teacher wants. You
    will probably learn more and remember it longer. Good luck and post a little summary
    of what you learned if you have the time.\r\n\r\n<stepping off soapbox>\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-04 14:22:18'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "\r\nOh, and watch Helvetica. I just saw it last night and it's great.\r\n=)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: sanapres
    body: "The problem with the assignment was that she didn't mention Pomo once in
      class and then when I had went to the books I found nothing. I even went to
      talk with upperclassmen and they had the same issue with the question she had
      asked. The help that's been given here has been so fantastic and I really can\u2019t
      thank you all enough. \u263A Pomo's pretty confusing and the deeper you get
      into I think the more confusing it gets, but I kept going back to that murder
      v. manslaughter analogy--it stuck probably because it was bloody. \r\n\r\nProblem
      with my professor is she\u2019s very intimidating and isn\u2019t afraid to tear
      your design to pieces. She\u2019s made a few of the people in my class actually
      cry. I guess she just takes some getting used to; she\u2019s only got our best
      interests at heart.\r\n\r\nisaactobin-Your typeface is wicked awesome! I love
      the look of it. One of these days I\u2019ll get figure out how to design my
      own typeface.\r\n\r\n>Oh, and watch Helvetica. I just saw it last night and
      it\u2019s great.\r\n\r\nI saw it at Massart a few weeks ago and thought the
      movie was really interesting. I didn't realize that it was EVERYWHERE. As a
      bonus, Helvetica's the typeface I have to do a poster and essay on. The movie
      came at a perfect time.\r\n"
    created: '2007-05-05 00:23:21'
  created: '2007-05-04 14:24:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> teachers are not omniscient quasi-deities\r\n\r\nIn fact the best teacher
    is an eternal student.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-04 14:46:47'
- author:
    name: isaactobin
  body: "I'd say Wyeth Hansen's Didon't is postmodern:\r\nhttp://www.wyethhansen.com/files/type_3.html\r\n\r\nIn
    school I drew a face that was a hybrid of Futura and Clarendon. It's working name
    was Futarendon. This was before celebrity couple portmanteaus were quite so popular,
    and I ended up calling it Ferdinand: http://www.isaactobin.com/typefaces.html"
  created: '2007-05-04 15:51:47'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>This topic has merit, but personally I have trouble getting over the
    discomfort of associating the hooliganism of the 90s with PoMo. I see so much
    amazing potential in PoMo type, but so very little of what most people claim is
    PoMo type is actually worth mentioning, much less admiring.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo write
    something on the subject. PoMo gets distilled down to 90s rebellion and Emigre
    fonts because so much was written about that era\u2014get more stuff out there
    for people to read and think about."
  created: '2007-05-04 15:56:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: LettError's "Twin" typeface morphs under the influence of a datastream, such
    as meterological info--wind direction/speed or temperature.
  created: '2007-05-04 17:07:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> So write something on the subject.\r\n\r\nYou mean something coherent and
    formal...\r\nMan, what a drag.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-04 17:33:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You could impress your teacher by explaining the two ways that Helvetica
    sucks: it's overused; and it's spaced too tight. Spiekermann alludes to the latter
    -in his own special way- in the movie when he says that if you're thick in the
    middle you shouldn't wear tight shirts. Speaking of shirts, you could wear this
    during your class(es): http://typophile.com/node/33285\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-05 00:40:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Problem with my professor is she\u2019s very intimidating and isn\u2019t
    afraid to tear your design to pieces. She\u2019s made a few of the people in my
    class actually cry. I guess she just takes some getting used to; she\u2019s only
    got our best interests at heart.</cite>\r\n\r\nI wish my school had teachers like
    that. I actually got flak from a teacher for making other students cry during
    classes."
  created: '2007-05-05 00:59:50'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Since Hrant has demured the task of writing something coherent & formal (
    and I did too actually...) I asked a friendf of mine whose views of these things
    I respect and this is what he wrote to me:\r\n\r\n\" Well...here's the short version
    of \"postmodern\" literary theory, as I understand it.  Others might suggest otherwise:\r\n\r\n1.\tPostmodernism,
    before the 1950s, was primarily a mode of description for certain kinds of appropriative
    forms.\r\n2.\tAt some point, in the 1960s and 1970s, it works its way into both
    literarure and literary criticism as a self-aware attitude.   From my point of
    view, it is more substantial in literature as an \"artistic\" development--Borges,
    Calvino, Barth.  Novelists like Barth theorize it into things like \"The literature
    of exhaustion\".  In philosophy, there are related-but-quite different developments,
    like \"The Social Construction of Reality\", etc.\r\n3.\tIn the 1960s and 1970s,
    poststructuralist literary theory (Derrida, etc) makes its way through the intelligentsia.
    \ This is a separate development from postmodernism,. as it is a specific reaction
    to french structuralist theory.   It is \"relativizing\", but doesn't particularly
    relate to developments in the arts, or their modes--there is a certain kind of
    intellectual sympathy/interaction.  From the point of view of postmodern theorists,
    I suppose, it might itself be considered a kind of development of postmodernism,
    if you are a postmodern theorist..\r\n4.\tIn the late 1970s, postmodern philosophy
    becomes a broader, more articulated idea.  Lyotard writes \"The Postmodern Condition:
    A Report on Knowledge\".  Rorty writes \"Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature\".
    \ Postmodernism is articulated into a more general description of contemporary
    thought and knowledge--suspicion of metanarrative, etc.\r\n5.\t In the 1980s,
    \"postmodern\" and \"poststructuralism\" become catchwords for undergrads everywhere,
    like ourselves, and often become conflated or generalized into relativized relationships
    to knowledge.\r\n6. \tEventually, it becomes a kind of cultural catchword--Republicans
    mistake it for \"relativism\".  Everything self-conscious in the arts becomes
    \"postmodern\".  People get fed up and stop using the term.\r\n\r\nYou are probably
    right that a font is not \"Postmodern\" in the same way that a Calvino novel is
    postmodern, and also right that that might have been one of the most interesting
    moments in postmodernism, or the most useful phase.  As far as architecture goes,
    you may also be right, since a piece of architecture is fundamentally a kind of
    aesthetic object as well as a functional one that has things fonts do not--like
    a physical context.  If you build a modern building in an old neighborhood with
    certain kinds of self-conscious allusion to the older forms of architecture surrounding
    it, that may be postmodernism.  But a font might be more like a construction material--or
    not exactly, but it in itself is mostly a form/object which can be put into different
    contexts.\r\n\r\nI think the bigger question has to do with, as you say, technique,
    which of course is not \"postmodern\"--dada is a good example--for that matter,
    18th c novels, etc.   That's the problem with step 5, in the 1980s.  I wish people
    would use the phrase \"self-conscious\" or \"self-allusive\" when they just mean
    self-conscious, instead of invoking a confusing intellectual lineage every time.
    \  This is especially a problem since its original uses are real developments
    in intellectual history.  Also, often people really mean \"modernist\", which
    as you say used all of those techniques and more--no one is more self-conscious/pastiche-using
    than Dadaists, Surrealists, Theater of the Absurd-ists, Woolf, Joyce, Godard,
    etc. etc.   One might say that postmodernism was a kind of shift in ideology that
    stripped modernism of its idealist/elitist project, but is still basically modernist
    in technique.  In a way, what people mean by postmodernism is a kind of popularization
    of modernist technique.\r\n\r\nOh well...\"\r\n\r\nEnjoy! Or Not.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-05 04:07:32'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>You could impress your teacher by explaining the two ways that Helvetica
    sucks: it\u2019s overused; and it\u2019s spaced too tight.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou might
    want to pass on that advice; any teacher worth his or her salt would probably
    point out that ubiquity does not imply lack of quality, and that spacing preferences
    are relative which is why tracking can be applied via text styles."
  created: '2007-05-05 04:17:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> ubiquity does not imply lack of quality\r\n\r\nIn terms of \"inherent\"
    quality the opposite is generally true. But in terms of contextual quality, when
    a font is used for everything from soup to sex to septic tanks it becomes too
    diluted to use for anything effectively. Contrary to what some people claim, it's
    not that it becomes neutral, it's that it becomes confused, hence unreliable.
    Think of Trajan, poor Trajan.\r\n\r\n> spacing preferences are relative\r\n\r\nNot
    when it comes to reading.\r\nWhen it comes to delivering good notan a font's various
    attributes have to be in balance. Helvetica's vertical proportions, color and
    spacing are each optimal for different types of settings. It. Is. Badly. Made.\r\n\r\n>
    tracking can be applied\r\n\r\nTracking ruins the spacing of \"boundary condition\"
    glyphs,\r\nmost famously the right side of the \"r\". Tracking is for brutes.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBut
    there is a good reason to pass on my advice: chances are your teacher, being a
    graphic designer and not a type designer, really has no idea how (or even that)
    Helvetica sucks, and might react badly.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-05 04:49:11'
- author:
    name: ffetish
  body: "Robert Bringhurst has a certain notion of the postmodern in mind, in his
    Elements of Typographic Style: \"frequent parody of Neoclassical, Romantic or
    Baroque form; rationalist or variable axis; sharply modelled serifs and terminals;
    moderate aperture\" (p. 15). Check his book's index for examples (Photina, Quadraat,
    Nofret come to mind). \r\n\r\nBroadly construed, anything 'PostScript' is, in
    a sense, 'postmodern' (see Bruce Mau, Life Style). More specifically: post-Fontographer...?\r\n\r\nThe
    following web page page cites examples of what could properly be called 'postmodern'
    faces: http://www.aiga.org/content.cfm/the-digital-past-when-typefaces-were-experimental\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-05 06:46:47'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "ffetish \r\n\r\nBrilliant.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2007-05-05 07:12:41'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Hi, Jackie, coming in late to this thread... I'm with Eben when he says it's
    not like apples and oranges.\r\n\r\nA good, short read on the differences between
    modern  vs. postmodern design can be found in <em>The Bauhaus Ideal, Then and
    Now</em>, by William Smock.\r\n\r\n<em>...she\u2019s very intimidating and isn\u2019t
    afraid to tear your design to pieces.</em>\r\n\r\nWhen I was in school, I was
    told that teachers do this so that you don't get too attached to your design...
    Also so that you can learn to handle rejection -- just wait until a client tells
    you s/he doesn't like your proposal.  :-)\r\n\r\nLast but not least... The book
    <em>Design Writing Research</em>, by Ellen Lupton and J. Abbott Miller, has a
    great essay, \"Laws of the Letter,\" in which they apply poststructuralist analysis
    to the history of typeface designs... I think you will find some useful concepts
    there. Also, Ellen Lupton adapted and rewrote that essay for her more recent <em>Thinking
    with Type</em>, in case you can't locate the older book."
  created: '2007-05-06 04:51:01'
- author:
    name: bokkah
    picture: 111697
  body: "We've all just plunked any new type into a \"post-modern\" group.  I guess
    what I'm saying is it's just not Black and white anymore with a few types crossing
    the border of different styles, it's a whole lotta mix and matchin'.  \r\n\r\nAs
    Bringhurst said: it's a parody of neoclassical, Romantic or Baroque form. "
  created: '2007-05-06 05:43:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To me mixing cannot produce a true new category. And \"parody\" is an insult
    to the true promise of PoMo. As for Bringhurst, he's good at a lot of things,
    but seeing future possibilities is not one of them; and that's why his classification
    system is so deathly static.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-06 14:13:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> it\u2019s just not Black and white anymore </cite>\r\n\r\nNone of
    it ever was. And in fact when I posted my friend's long analysis I was interested
    in showing that pomo has in fact meant many things over time. You can pick from
    a series of definitions of you want. How is that for shades of grey? \r\n\r\nJoseph,
    the other thing your post suggests is that type has existed in neat catagories
    up until recently. This is also a mistake. To be sure you can talk about how 'aldine'
    a type is or not but it isn't a border. It's hazy too. Less than pomo for sure
    but hazy none the less. \r\n\r\nBut the real point I wanted to make was that Pomo
    isn't really that descriptive a term for type. It isn't that useful. It's closer
    to spin - or hype. A description that gets closer to what is going on like 'parody'
    or 'pastitche' or whatever is actually helpful. Saying 'Pomo' about type is as
    much or more an assertion about the state of the maker mind as it is about the
    type. Pomo is scattershot & weak as a descriptor. \r\n\r\nI am willing to climb
    down a bit and admit that saying pomo about type is might be okay if you are a
    graphic designer or a memeber of the public. I am sure there are contexts in which
    that is going to be a useful way of describing work. I would prefer it is they
    said type that supports a Pomo direction or something but it isn't worth the arguement.
    Talking about type isn't easy and they should be given some slack. \r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, if I have a class I want my teacher to teach something that  can
    use intellectually or practically. That is why I say that for somebody involved
    in type as a type designer or a teacher; using Pomo as a serious description amounts
    in intellectual sloth or laziness. \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2007-05-06 18:54:07'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Nice pity post Hrant!
  created: '2007-05-06 18:55:02'
- author:
    name: ffetish
  body: "\"using Pomo as a serious description amounts in intellectual sloth or laziness.\"\r\n\r\nWell,
    I wouldn't level that charge at Robert Bringhurst. Here are a few pithy extracts
    from pp135-36 of v2.5 of his book: \r\n\r\nELEGIAC POSTMODERNISM: \r\n\r\n\"Postmodern
    letterforms ... frequently recycle and revise Neoclassical, Romantic and other
    premodern forms. At their best, they do so with an engaging lightness of touch
    and a fine sense of humor. Postmodern art is for the most part highly self-conscious,
    but devoutly unserious....\"\r\n\r\nGEOMETRIC POSTMODERNISM: \r\n\r\n\"Some postmodern
    faces are highly geometric. Like their predecessors the Geometric Modernist faces,
    they are usually slab-serifed or unserifed, but often they exist in both varieties
    at once or are hybrids of the two. They are rarely, it seems, based on the pure
    and simple line and circle, but almost always on more mannered, often asymmetric
    forms. And like other Postmodern types, they are rich with nostalgia for something
    pre-modern. Many of these faces are indebted to older industrial letterforms,
    including typewriter faces and the ubiquitous factory folk-art of North American
    highway signs. They recycle not Romantic and Neoclassical but Realist ideas....\"\r\n\r\n\"Postmodern
    art, like Neoclassical art, is above all an art of the surface: an art of reflections
    rather than visions. It has thrived in the depthless world of high-speed offset
    printing and digital design, where modernism starves. But the world of the scribes,
    in which the craft of type design is rooted, was a depthless world too. It was
    the world of the Gothic painters, in which everything is present in one plane....\"\r\n\r\nAnd
    this from Bruce Mau's fabulous catalogue of \"Postmodern\" culture (although I
    doubt that he uses the \"P\" word): \r\n\r\n\"There is no longer any distinction
    between text and non-text, image and non-image. The entire surface is now described
    in one language. Everything is now image. With [PostScript] Adobe ushered in an
    entirely new aesthetic and a new model of 'thinking the page' that will change
    the way typography itself is conceived.\" (Life Style, p. 65)\r\n\r\nSo, perhaps
    looking at the technologies of so-called 'postmodernity' (Macintosh, PostScript,
    Fontographer, Internet, etc.) would allow the cultivation of a valid meaning for
    the term 'postmodern type'. \r\n\r\nInevitably, letterforms are always going to
    refer to something other than themselves (i.e., alphabets). Experiment: try and
    decipher John Cage's '62 Mesostics for Merce Cunningham,' scattered throughout
    his book _M_. (Find specimens here: http://www.ubu.com/historical/cage/index.html).
    Is Cage's use of Letraset in these musical compositions still 'typography'? This
    would be another way of approaching the question of 'postmodern type'. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-06 22:59:31'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> Bringhurst & 'Postmodern letterforms' </cite>\r\n\r\nAt the time when
    that was written saying postpodern was very fashionable and there was a great
    deal of confusion about how best to describe what was happening and how to judge
    it. It was also imperitive that what was happening be addresed in some way. I
    think if you read what he wrote there he was trying to make a bridge for his readers
    and what he was building to had to have been hazy in his own esitmation. No wonder
    hand waving was employed! What other choice did he have? Also, the making of type
    & the use of type were coming back together which was a case PoMo style classification
    breaking. So I am not willing to condemn him for having put it that way - especially
    in that historical context. But I do think with 20/20 hindsight there are now
    better, more complex, more accurate & more useful constructions that can & should
    be employed. Also, if you read his \"The Solid Form Of Language\" you will see
    that this hand waving is atypical. In general his work is far more specific and
    grounded. And finally, there is no point in worshiping at the shrine of Bringhurst
    no matter how much you respect him - which I do in a big big way. So don't think
    you can cow me into backing down by invoking Bringhurst.\r\n\r\n<cite> There is
    no longer any distinction between text and non-text, image and non-image. </cite>\r\n\r\nOn
    the surface of it ( & in the era of Google) this is silly. Text is king because
    it is searchable. And even the power of the Image is enhanced with the use of
    tags. Maybe because the quote you have there is short I am not getting what he
    is after. And this sentence in particular seems to me crafted to sell books via
    excitement rather than as an excercise in creating greater clarity. I think Bruce
    is as much an entertainer as he is a theoretician. I am not slaging off him for
    that, but I am saying look at the source & be critical of it. And again while
    Bruce Mau is a lot of fun, and thoughful & provocative -  much as I respect him,
    I don't think he has a corner on truth.\r\n\r\n<cite> So, perhaps looking at the
    technologies of so-called \u2018postmodernity\u2019 (Macintosh, PostScript, Fontographer,
    Internet, etc.) would allow the cultivation of a valid meaning for the term \u2018postmodern
    type\u2019. </cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe you would like to explain what you mean & stop
    simply waving your hands. Conflation is not a helpful way of thinking - especially
    about this.\r\n\r\nFor example, re: John Cage etc: Typography and Type design
    are differnet things. \r\n\r\n- Certainly he is using type so we can agree it's
    typography. \r\n- Is he designing a type face? No. He is using many of them. So
    there is no PoMo type there. There may be a use of type that supports a PoMo intent.
    They are not the same thing. \r\n- There may also be a PoMo peice using type in
    ways that support a pomo intent. Again, not quite the same thing. \r\n- A typeface
    based on this work would also not be Pomo for the reasons I have given before.
    \r\n\r\nIf you are going to use the term Pomo with success get out you have to
    start making distinctions. With distictions comes relationships and with the investigation
    of relationships you could build to PoMo. And for the sake of being repetitive
    : A typeface on it's own does not contain a rich enough body of relationships
    to be PoMo in and of itself.\r\n\r\nAs soon as somebody can make an arguement
    that is considered and convincing I will back down. I would even like that. But
    so far nobody has. Also, saying that sombody called something PoMo at one point
    or another doesn't make it so and isn't the basis for a debate.\r\n\r\nHrant I
    llike your logo-ized way of typing PoMo so I stole it. "
  created: '2007-05-07 01:12:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ">> \"There is no longer any distinction between\r\n>> text and non-text,
    image and non-image.\"\r\n\r\nHogwash.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-07 01:28:38'
- author:
    name: ffetish
  body: "\"So don\u2019t think you can cow me into backing down by invoking Bringhurst.\"\r\n\r\nEben,
    you've taken my post completely the wrong way, since I wasn't responding to your
    comments but, rather, merely trying to contribute further to the forum topic.
    I invoked Bringhurst not for the purposes of worship or for bullying, but simply
    because his is one of the very few books on type that I happen to have at my disposal.
    Ditto Mau -- who as an 'entertainer' playing with 'surfaces', goes beyond a theory
    of postmodernism and into its actual practice. Within my own field of expertise
    (literature) postmodernism was hardly very exciting or trendy from 1992-2002,
    when Bringhurst wrote and revised his book (v.2.5 which I quoted from). Indeed,
    Ihab Hassan, a prominent literary theorist, proclaimed the 'death' of postmodernism
    in 1990 -- around the same time something we could (but won't)agree to call 'postmodern
    type' was being born. \r\n\r\nAs for making distinctions: this is precisely Bringhurst's
    method, differentiating postmodernism from modernism, 'elegiac' from 'geometric'
    postmodernism, etc. They're unstable and problematic categories, to be sure, but
    no more so than in other fields (literary theory for example). \r\n\r\nGranted,
    postmodern typeface and postmodern typography need to be distinguished (I was
    evidently thinking somewhat like a rhizome in my previous post). For the record,
    though, Cage is in fact a de facto typographer, ever since his handwriting was
    digitized and fontified. In homage, P22Cage even includes a 'Silence' font - the
    definitive postmodernist typographical gesture? I wonder, has 'Silence' ever been
    used by a designer? \r\n\r\nA couple of salient points mentioned by Bringhurst
    -- playfulness, hybridity, nostalgia, pastiche and recycling -- allude to theories
    of postmodernism developed in other fields. I think they reliably inform a working
    definition of postmodern type. They are starting points -- at least, that's my
    rationale for posting them -- from which theoretical statements might eventually
    be formulated. Or not, as the case may be. "
  created: '2007-05-07 01:56:07'
- author:
    name: ffetish
  body: "\"Maybe you would like to explain what you mean & stop simply waving your
    hands. Conflation is not a helpful way of thinking - especially about this.\"\r\n\r\nPlease
    don't get me wrong: hand-waving was hardly my intention. Since you make that criticism
    in relation to my comments on technology, let me cite Mau once more:\r\n\r\n\"If
    we look closely at the history of typography, it's principally a history of evolving
    typographic production techniques. The forms are in fact inseparable from the
    ways in which they were produced. The same will apply to PostScript. The consequences
    remain to be seen.\"\r\n\r\nThat's the context for Mau's remarks I quoted previously:
    the \"principal innovation [of PostScript] was the invention of a 'page description
    language' used to describe any point on the surface, whether it was text or image.\"
    If text and image are not yet one and the same thing, they are well on the way
    to becoming so. That, at least, is Mau's conjecture. Technologies such as OCR
    and image-tagging do tend to blur the boundary somewhat. "
  created: '2007-05-07 02:07:07'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "'. . .' or ffetish. \r\n\r\nThanks for making your arguements clearer. Sorry
    if I got shrill there. \r\n\r\nI will respond as soon as I can."
  created: '2007-05-07 02:14:20'
- author:
    name: ffetish
  body: "Eben: I appreciate that. You've certainly provided ample food for thought.
    For example, it strikes me that what Cage achieves in his graphic mesostics at
    the level of the page is analogous to that which a postmodern typeface would achieve
    at the level of the font: i.e., hybridity, pastiche, playfulness, etc. -- even
    (if only rarely) at the expense of legibility itself (or in the case of Cage's
    mesostics, grammar and syntax). Cage's mesostics exemplify a kind of 'visual poetics'
    which have often been associated with the initial, more creative and experimental
    phase of postmodern writing. The arrangement of text as visual image dominates
    even theoretical writings on postmodernism, such as Hassan's The Postmodern Turn.
    But unlike concrete poetry, etc., Cage's mesostics and other writings (Mureau,
    Empty Words) deliberately defy the imperative to communicate a syntactic message.
    I doubt whether typography could ever be so experimental as to completely disavow
    its conventional raison d'etre (the result would be the \"Silence\" font -- a
    blank specimen page -- or sheer noise; in any case, something other than typography
    as traditionally conceived).\r\n\r\nCage's is of course not the only literary
    aesthetic to qualify as 'postmodern.' Consider Thomas Pynchon's novels as a contrast.
    Mason & Dixon, a weighty historical novel written in parody of eighteenth-century
    style (although with plenty of historical anomalies) is set in a period typeface
    (Pynchon scholars have seized on the ebullient ampersand that adorns the book's
    jacket). This \"putting on the costume\" (and indeed, \"parading\") of past styles
    is also a feature of postmodernist literary aesthetics. Arguably, it comprises
    a more complex relationship than that which might be discerned in such typefaces
    as NotCaslon or DeadHistory. But the same principle -- reviving historical styles
    in order to comment on them, and our lingering attachments to them; usually critically
    -- seems to inform both projects. \r\n\r\nJust a couple of random thoughts to
    throw into the mix. "
  created: '2007-05-07 03:35:39'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Okay I am back.\r\n\r\nYou said:\r\n\r\n<cite> goes beyond a theory of postmodernism
    and into its actual practice </cite>\r\n\r\nSo you saaaay. But what do you mean?
    I mean I can say I can fly to the moon. But what would convince you? Admittedly
    I need less proof re: Mau's practice but I would like some sort of specificity
    or I will be forced to say 'waving hands' again. I am not saying he isn't or doesn't
    but it would help if you let us know what your standards are. Don't you think
    so too?\r\n\r\n<cite> Within my own field of expertise (literature) postmodernism
    was hardly very exciting or trendy from 1992-2002, when Bringhurst wrote and revised
    his book </cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe so, but within graphic design PoMo was hitting big
    by the time 1992 rolled around and stopped being trendy maybe 5-7 years later.
    And who was Bringhurst writing for? Not a Lit or Theory audience. No, clearly
    a graphic design oriented audience. So I contend Bringhurst had motive. You can't
    really use Lit Crit as guide here. I mean, how much sense would that make?\r\n\r\n<cite>
    \ They\u2019re unstable and problematic categories, to be sure, but no more so
    than in other fields </cite>\r\n\r\nI think it would be good if you expanded on
    this. Even if you think PoMo is a problematic or iffy adventure; it doesn't preclude
    describing what you you think is essential or descriptive or better still distictive
    from other ( especially related ) ways of looking at the world. \r\n\r\nThat's
    my core thesis here. I don't see anything in suposedly PoMo type that would not
    be at home in Dada or some other period that shared 'techniques'. Is there a technique
    that is unique to Pomo? That would be start at least. \r\n\r\nBut even if you
    can name one or even 100; PoMo isn't just made from one or more approved processi.
    It isn't just a new & improved Dada 2.0 with 2 new techniques! I am saying PoMo
    is different & worth talking about  because it goes beyond technique, and aesthetics.
    Actually, Dada did too. But back to the point: Type as a vessel isn't able to
    carry that distictiveness- mostly because Type on it's own has no narrative. It
    can play a part in a narrative. But it does not contain one in the way that a
    Pynchon's 'Mason & Dixon'  ( that bit about the ketchap was really fun wasn't
    it!) or Calvino's 'If on a Winter Night a Traveler' does. Or a Cage poem or Mau
    essay *might*. \r\n\r\nIn the case of Pynchon & Calvino you can point to the Narrative
    acknowledging itself as a narrative. That wasn't new exactly. 18th century lit
    such as Montesquieu, \"Lettres persanes\", or Henry Fielding's \"Tom Jones\",
    or  Laurence Sterne's \"Tristram Shandy\"...  did that too which is why Pynchon
    was keen on revisting the past. And he isn't the only one. Jeanette Winterson
    & Rushdie have been there too. Still there is something in Pynchon's book which
    is Postmodern not 18th century. Can you put your finger on it?\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metafiction\r\n\r\nIf
    you can; can you locate it in a typeface *itself*?\r\n\r\n<cite> If text and image
    are not yet one and the same thing, they are well on the way to becoming so. </cite>
    \r\n\r\nI have already shown one way in which this is not so. Mau is blurring
    what is actually complex & rich and - possibly postmodern. He is not getting at
    what happening but waving hands. It's entertaining but not enlightening. It's
    not that it's all becomeing one mushy image gruel. It's not a case of becoming
    Textimage or Imagetext. It's text in images. And images of text. And XML. And
    RSS. And they are all specific. Distinct and in a web of  complex relationships.
    So it's not all becomeing the <cite> same thing </cite> at all. In fact the opposite.
    It's a case of more different but also related & interrelated than ever.\r\n\r\nI
    think your best hope for defining some kind of type as PoMo in a really convincing
    way would be to draw a definition of Pomo outside it's most complex periods :
    Lit & Theory; and find something distictive there. I am not sayng it can't be
    done. Just that nobody has done it so far. \r\n\r\nThe other model you could use
    is to say, this period if different. This type was made during this period. It
    has features which are typical of type from the period. Maybe it was notorious/famous
    or influential. All of which amounts to: It's periodicity and noteworthiness makes
    it 'Pomo'. I say that's a poor definition but if you want it you can have it.
    I only ask that you cop to buying that definition if that's they one you are using.\r\n\r\nThe
    1st model is harder. The 2nd model is easy. But in either case: confess what standards
    you are using. \r\n\r\n<cite> I doubt whether typography could ever be so experimental
    as to completely disavow its conventional raison d\u2019etre. </cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    it is absolutely neccesary that the type carry significant amounts of 'past style'
    or it will not be recognized as type and will not work and is there fore not type.
    I mean you could say that all type has been postmodern from the beginning of time
    because it carries past styles. But that's not a useful or accurate thing to say.
    You agree - correct?\r\n\r\n<cite> a feature of postmodernist literary aesthetics
    </cite>\r\n\r\nNow we are getting somewhere 'a feature' is right. A feature does
    not rate as equivalent to an aesthetic. And moreover I have been busy saying that
    PoMo is essentially beyond Aeshetics too. So showing a feature is not enough.
    Not by a a long shot. That is to say, I am saying PoMo cannot be defined by aesthetics
    alone. You can disagree. But say so.\r\n\r\nAnd finally \r\n\r\n<cite> reviving
    historical styles in order to comment on them, and our lingering attachments to
    them; usually critically \u2014 seems to inform both projects. </cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    was your best point I think. You are saying; if I get you; \"it's not the same,
    but it has the same spirit\". That really works as long as you don't take things
    apart and examine the bits. I cannot find the part of NotCaslon & DeadHistory
    that comments. They do repurpose historical forms. And in a newish way. But repurposing
    has no point of view in and of itself. It is a technique without a perspective
    so it isn't 'critical'. Ceratinly commenting; depending on what is said; might
    be PoMo. The intent lies with the Authors in the case of Type because Type cannot
    reveal intent in the way that Art, Film, Narrative or I would even argue Architecture
    can.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-08 10:58:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Teach is right on with wanting specific faces, characteristics, and dates.\r\nThat
    way you have to look and think about what you're seeing. Having a variety of \"finds\"
    by students will make for interesting discussion.\r\n\r\nIt's possible to describe
    typefaces from a number of different perspectives, which is perhaps a Post-modern
    idea. Typespeak and Techspeak are de rigueur, but Artspeak has some relevance
    to post-modern designs -- however, you will have to decide how much of the irony
    is po-faced, piss-taking, or both.\r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/artefact_4248.png]\r\n\r\n<em>Literally
    and playfully Post-modern, Artefact (1999) deconstructs the Modern (Didone) class
    of 19th century types to question the conventions of stress inherited from earlier,
    chirographically-informed types, governing the acceptability of which strokes
    are thin, and which thick. Rephrasing the Didone vocabulary, Artefact generates
    a revisionist colour of corroded notan.</em>"
  created: '2007-05-08 20:02:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That \"artefact\" is nice (except for the \"t\"). Mostly it's just removing
    thick parts though, and not adding any. So I would call it halfway PoMo, as if
    it's shying away from going all out.\r\n\r\nBTW, that language sounds vaguely
    familiar...  ;-)\r\nAnd of course it's much newer than that release date!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-08 20:17:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Mostly it\u2019s just removing thick parts</em>\r\n\r\nYes, I stopped
    short of thickening horizontals. And I drew it, with adjustments for balance,
    rather than using cut and paste, so it's true I didn't go all out. The criticism
    I have always made of my own post-modern work is that I compromise it by relying
    so much on traditional drawing aesthetics to make it look pleasing to the eye,
    well, my eye anyway. \r\n\r\nThere's a mid 19th century face, can't remember the
    name, Italian something or other, that completely rotates stress through 90 degrees.
    So, was that kind of thing purely a formal exercise, or just how knowingly post-modern
    (Eben's criterion of intent) was it? Does it matter whether the intent is literally
    articulated as such by the author/designer, or is the articulation non-linguistic,
    in the work itself? How important is the artist's statement, or should we just
    leave it to critics to discern and impart intent?\r\n\r\n<em>much newer than that
    release date!</em>\r\n\r\nHere's how I blurbed it in on release (Shinntype Specimen
    Booklet #1, Nov. 1999):\r\n\"A systematic, precisely finished deconstruction of
    the late nineteenth century <em>modern</em> genre.\"\r\n\r\nOnly later did I discover
    notan...\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-08 20:35:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Italian Fat Face.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-08 20:47:06'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Yes, I was wondering where the quote could come from. I assumed since it
    was not cited that it was Nick speaking in a faux authoritative italicized voice
    thus critiquing the underlying assumption I have made that we could or should
    define PoMo one way or the other. After all are there not multiple perspectives?
    Why take a single definition to (a modern attitude surely...) to the PoMo? Of
    course I don't see it that way but that's okay. Still, nice job of taking the
    part on Nick!\r\n\r\n<cite> It\u2019s possible to describe typefaces from a number
    of different perspectives, which is perhaps a Post-modern idea.</cite> Is that
    idea encoded in your sample face? If a type face seems to you to be referencing
    a idea is that enough? Or is this a case of litteral visual deconstruction ( a
    technique ) minus a PoMo intent. What is there in the font itself that would let
    you decide?  \r\n\r\nWhen reading about revivals I have often read criticism of
    the the idea that it's possible or even desirable to imagine what the type designer
    was thinking based on study of their type. So far I agree with the critique and
    that leads me to think there is nothing in the font itself ( leaving interviews
    & critiques of the font out of it ) to suggest intent. What do you say about that?
    How does that relate to our arguement? \r\n\r\n<cite> have to look and think about
    what you\u2019re seeing </cite>\r\nI am all for that. I just think it's more helpful
    to say 'type from the post modern period in design' rather that 'PoMo type'. I
    know it's a subtle distinction but worth making especially in an academic context
    where you are meant to be looking and thinking about what you\u2019re seeing.
    Also, students will have a better shot of actually finding some examples because
    the won't be wasting time trying to put round pegs in square holes. Or chasing
    an 'essence' of PoMo which would be a Romantic sort of idea I think..."
  created: '2007-05-08 20:57:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> my own post-modern work </cite>\r\n\r\nYou see I am absolutely willing
    to call that typeface part of your post modern work. Why? Because you, Nick are
    a referenced. There is a web relationships there that sustains the claim. The
    font left on it's own; seen perhaps 1000 years from now in the abscence of information
    about you will not be able to sustain the same claim. Calvino's \"if on a winter's
    night\" will. It's encoded in the thing itself.\r\n\r\nActually, One VERY quick
    way to solve for this problem might be to include a suitable statement in the
    font's Notes/copyright info section."
  created: '2007-05-08 21:05:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the post modern period</em>\r\n\r\nThe distinction must be made between
    the idea as a principle and as historical movement.\r\nThat stems from the Post-modern
    understanding of modernism, eg \"modernity's awareness of itself as modern announces
    merely the empty flow of time itself' (Pinkney). Or, \"modernity can only define
    itself in terms of a temporal break with an organic past, but it is a break that
    has always already occurred no matter which moment one chooses as its starting
    point.\" (Kantaris).\r\n\r\nSo Italian Fat Face is not part of the Post-modern
    era, but may still be a post-modern type design."
  created: '2007-05-08 21:09:01'
- author:
    name: ffetish
  body: "For what it's worth, these would appear to be quite distinct labelling terms
    (if not downright misnomers): \r\n\r\n1. postmodernism -- a self-conscious aesthetic/anti-aesthetic
    movement in literature and the arts\r\n\r\n2. postmodernity -- a periodizing term
    the inaugural date of which varies by discipline: ca. 1945 in Hassan's account
    of American literature; ca. 1972 in Jencks's account of architecture.  As for
    typography, Mau would probably settle somewhere mid-1980s, while others might
    prefer a date of ca. 1990 (Emigre, et al.).  Note however that 'postmodernism'
    was occasionally used in the 1930s, and even as early as the late-19th century
    (see Nicholas Zurbrugg's book _The Parameters of Postmodernism_ for details).\r\n\r\nEben:
    'postmodern ... intent' would appear to be a contradiction in terms, insofar as
    the example of Cage is concerned. Part and parcel of the postmodern condition
    would seem to be the relinquishment of an author's control over the 'meaning'
    of his/her text, and analogously, of a typographer's control over the use and
    interpretation of his/her typeface; although arguably, that disavowal of intention
    discloses -- yes, paradoxically -- merely another kind of intention, one that
    responds to the conditions of postmodernity (immanence + indeterminacy, or indetermanence,
    as Hassan quipped). \r\n\r\nSpeaking of Cage's preference for non-intentionality,
    an _I Ching_ approach to typeface design is remotely conceivable. Just as Cage
    decided which parameters of a composition would be determined by chance operations,
    so too might a type designer subject the various parameters of each letterform
    in the alphabet to a series of chance operations. Parameters such as 'ascender
    height,' 'bowl width' or 'stroke direction' could easily be modulated at random,
    ostensibly free of the designer's intention or aesthetic preference. That, for
    me, would constitute one of many examples of a 'postmodern typography.' \r\n\r\nNick:
    I appreciate the fact that an actual type designer has contributed to this topic!
    \ Jeff Keedy is practically the only other typeface designer that I know of who
    uses the term 'postmodern' to describe what they do. For want of a better term,
    perhaps?"
  created: '2007-05-18 10:42:14'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite>\"Part and parcel of the postmodern condition would seem to be the
    relinquishment of an author\u2019s control over the \u2018meaning\u2019 of his/her
    text\"</cite>\r\n\r\nYou are not making sense here I am afraid. A post modern
    intent would consist of relinquishment of an author\u2019s idea of an exclusive
    relationship. This does not in any way mean that they can't have 'intent' or be
    aware of their own purpose/s as they contruct a frame which they know must inevitably
    embrace multiple interpretations/meanings. \r\n\r\nSo far I have just described
    a PoMo attitude to doing the work. The distiction you are not getting so far I
    think is between that & the embedding of some sort of trace of an awareness of
    relationships and perhaps of liminality in the work itself.\r\n\r\nRe: the 1st
    term; I agee it is distinct. I think your definition is too short, and also too
    restrictive. The notion of an anti-aethetic aesthetic being 'neccesary' to PoMo
    isn't accurate. What going on on is that the aesthetic as a primary urge is left
    to one side. However, the aesthetic ( meaning pleasing ) is not forbidden in the
    postmodern.  \r\n\r\nRe: the 2nd term; as I pointed out ealier Historical periodicity
    is a poor way of defining a thing mostly because it's not very strong, specific
    or useful. I do agree that the phrase itself is distinct. I don't think we will
    find it useful to pusue because it is too vague a term.\r\n\r\nRe: Ramdomness
    as a feature of PoMo; the FUSE projects and other generated type, especially the
    work of Letterror http://www.letterror.com/catalog/robot/index.html seem to meet
    your criteria already."
  created: '2007-05-19 07:31:17'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Any PoMo available in the OpenType format yet? :\u2014)\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2007-05-20 04:05:49'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I am working on it. It seems there is a professor who wants some. Supply &
    demand don't you know...
  created: '2007-05-20 16:20:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Actually I think it would be interesting to hear what cultural products (
    if any ) you feel make especially good or effective use of PoMo. That might be
    a better direction for the thread now.\r\n\r\nI have said Italo Calvino's book
    'If on a winters night a traveller', 'ffetish' has invoked the works of Cage.
    What do you guys think? I would add two more myself: Cabaret Voltaire, and Underworld
    ( music ).  "
  created: '2007-05-20 18:20:47'
- author:
    name: TypophileGirl
  body: "Speaking of PoMo type, I have a related question to throw around in here.\r\n\r\nI
    am reworking a project from school for my portfolio about post-modernist point
    of view/perspectives from Massimo Vignelli, Jonathan Barnbook, Denise Gonzalez
    Crisp (professsor at North Carolina SU, and Lorraine Wild (of Green Dragon Office).
    The book is supposed to be a comparative dialog, with all essays running on the
    same spreads, 1 essay from each designer, with text reacting with one another
    depending on the current dialog.  \r\n\r\nOne of my problems is (has been) choosing
    typefaces that represent each point of view (if i should even do that), and/or
    that represent the designer in general. Currently (the design I'm dumping), with
    the point sizes all around 8 point-ish, the book ran about 30 pages. With a systematic
    approach to this, the whole thing seemed to get redundant and uninteresting after
    a few spreads. I would like to keep that same systematic approach as I think that
    is a smart way to keep all the text under control and stable.\r\n\r\nI guess I'd
    like to get some of your opinions on how to approach this or suggestions on how
    I change what this book is going to be post-redo (now that I don't have an instructor
    directing it!)\r\n\r\nAny comments would be helpful. My professor got in a car
    accident on the brink of this project's end, and I never heard from her again!
    What luck! Thanks very much!"
  created: '2008-09-01 06:03:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's hard to imagine 8 point being nearly large enough.\r\nWhat font is it,
    and what's the column measure?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-01 06:12:28'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026the book ran about 30 pages\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nEdit the text
    down or just don\u2019t do the whole thing. Unless this is some mindblowing centerpiece
    or a solo piece you mails out, thirty pages of running essay probably shouldn\u2019t
    be in your portfolio. "
  created: '2008-09-01 06:14:33'
- author:
    name: TypophileGirl
  body: "Speaking of PoMo type, I have a related question to throw around in here.\r\n\r\nI
    am reworking a project from school for my portfolio about post-modernist point
    of view/perspectives from Massimo Vignelli, Jonathan Barnbook, Denise Gonzalez
    Crisp (professsor at North Carolina SU, and Lorraine Wild (of Green Dragon Office).
    The book is supposed to be a comparative dialog, with all essays running on the
    same spreads, 1 essay from each designer, with text reacting with one another
    depending on the current dialog.  \r\n\r\nOne of my problems is (has been) choosing
    typefaces that represent each point of view (if i should even do that), and/or
    that represent the designer in general. Currently (the design I'm dumping), with
    the point sizes all around 8 point-ish, the book ran about 30 pages. With a systematic
    approach to this, the whole thing seemed to get redundant and uninteresting after
    a few spreads. I would like to keep that same systematic approach as I think that
    is a smart way to keep all the text under control and stable.\r\n\r\nI guess I'd
    like to get some of your opinions on how to approach this or suggestions on how
    I change what this book is going to be post-redo (now that I don't have an instructor
    directing it!)\r\n\r\nAny comments would be helpful. My professor got in a car
    accident on the brink of this project's end, and I never heard from her again!
    What luck! Thanks very much!"
  created: '2008-09-01 06:39:39'
- author:
    name: TypophileGirl
  body: "Speaking of PoMo type, I have a related question to throw around in here.\r\n\r\nI
    am reworking a project from school for my portfolio about post-modernist point
    of view/perspectives from Massimo Vignelli, Jonathan Barnbook, Denise Gonzalez
    Crisp (professsor at North Carolina SU, and Lorraine Wild (of Green Dragon Office).
    The book is supposed to be a comparative dialog, with all essays running on the
    same spreads, 1 essay from each designer, with text reacting with one another
    depending on the current dialog.  \r\n\r\nOne of my problems is (has been) choosing
    typefaces that represent each point of view (if i should even do that), and/or
    that represent the designer in general. Currently (the design I'm dumping), with
    the point sizes all around 8 point-ish, the book ran about 30 pages. With a systematic
    approach to this, the whole thing seemed to get redundant and uninteresting after
    a few spreads. I would like to keep that same systematic approach as I think that
    is a smart way to keep all the text under control and stable.\r\n\r\nI guess I'd
    like to get some of your opinions on how to approach this or suggestions on how
    I change what this book is going to be post-redo (now that I don't have an instructor
    directing it!)\r\n\r\nAny comments would be helpful. My professor got in a car
    accident on the brink of this project's end, and I never heard from her again!
    What luck! Thanks very much!"
  created: '2008-09-01 07:06:47'
- author:
    name: TypophileGirl
  body: "Speaking of PoMo type, I have a related question to throw around in here.\r\n\r\nI
    am reworking a project from school for my portfolio about post-modernist point
    of view/perspectives from Massimo Vignelli, Jonathan Barnbook, Denise Gonzalez
    Crisp (professsor at North Carolina SU, and Lorraine Wild (of Green Dragon Office).
    The book is supposed to be a comparative dialog, with all essays running on the
    same spreads, 1 essay from each designer, with text reacting with one another
    depending on the current dialog.  \r\n\r\nOne of my problems is (has been) choosing
    typefaces that represent each point of view (if i should even do that), and/or
    that represent the designer in general. Currently (the design I'm dumping), with
    the point sizes all around 8 point-ish, the book ran about 30 pages. With a systematic
    approach to this, the whole thing seemed to get redundant and uninteresting after
    a few spreads. I would like to keep that same systematic approach as I think that
    is a smart way to keep all the text under control and stable.\r\n\r\nI guess I'd
    like to get some of your opinions on how to approach this or suggestions on how
    I change what this book is going to be post-redo (now that I don't have an instructor
    directing it!)\r\n\r\nAny comments would be helpful. My professor got in a car
    accident on the brink of this project's end, and I never heard from her again!
    What luck! Thanks very much!"
  created: '2008-09-02 03:37:08'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I wonder if some of Cages other ideas might be of use at all.  One of his
    most famous focuses (and one he later rejected) was his preference for composing
    for the silence in pieces instead of for the non-silence.  This is an implicit
    rejection of the earlier mentioned \"text and non-text,image and non-image\" being
    the same.  Most are surely familiar with the height of this approach in <em>4'33</em>.\r\n\r\nPart
    of the problem of defining postmodernism (or even really modernism to an extent)
    is that there is less unity in the representations of works.  All those isms (big
    generalization) that fall under Mo/PoMo each had their own approach and results,
    but had similar thinking or catalysts for action, though looking at their works
    it might not seem that way (I speak more from the visual and textual arts side,
    I'm not as well versed in musical/aural).\r\n\r\nReturning to Cage, applying his
    focus of silence to type, silence would be blank paper, or not-type.  Would designing
    with a specific focus on negative space in type design affect it?  Does his ultimate
    rejection of silence play a role (just like with sound, on paper it's impossible
    to have pure white, the paper inherently has some gray or texture or otherwise).\r\n\r\n
    A couple of people have mentioned mixing of styles, hybridizations, etc. but these
    come off to me as much more plain Modernist than PoMo.\r\n\r\nNow what I would
    do for a real PoMo or perhaps better said PoPoMo piece would be a autogen word
    processor that would design each letter in a classical style (that is, serif,
    formal looking, nothing crazy) but that would analyze the text as it was being
    inputed and begin to adjust font properties (by word or even by letter) accordingly,
    including changing serifs, weight, angle of weight, slanting it or italicizing
    it, adding double strikes, color of text, contrast, etc.      Hey wait, that last
    bit there sounds almost like some nearly lost technology we already have....\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-09-02 08:48:23'
date: '2007-05-02 07:01:00'
title: Post Modern Type?

---
