---
author:
  name: raph
  picture: 109741
body: "Typophiles,\r\n\r\nAfter years of talking about a spiral-based curve editing
  tool, the provisional patent application is filed, and I've made an unpolished release
  of the stuff I have now. Brave souls can check it out to see what I've been talking
  about. Others among you may choose to wait until there's a release that's not quite
  as spartan.\r\n\r\n<!--break-->\r\n\r\nI made a Mac build, but loading and saving
  is more or less not implemented (you can kinda make it work using the commandline,
  but it really needs a file dialog). Background images (for tracing) are not supported
  yet either.\r\n\r\nThe solver has also not been tuned for numerical robustness,
  so when you play around with it, you'll often see it fail to solve the spline. It
  does work reliably when the pattern plate represents a real font shape rather than
  random points, though.\r\n\r\nIt's free software (GPL), and patches for improvements
  are greatly appreciated.\r\n\r\nhttp://levien.com/spiro/"
comments:
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: Great stuff, congrats! I see this as a better, more useful alternative to
    the sketch mode in Fontlab.
  created: '2007-05-05 11:17:21'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: Great stuff! Should speed up a 'start designing directly on the computer'
    sort of a work process. Will it be compatible with UFO's or Fontlab files?
  created: '2007-05-05 17:04:07'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Great program.  I did some quick sketching to figure out how it works.  However
    on the Mac version I'm getting a few anomalies, though I'm not sure if it's Mac-specific
    or not (though they are pretty.  They occur when I'm dragging points around, and
    and in drag randomly at certain points the design will \"expload\" into some of
    the forms you see below.  If you need any help with the Mac OS X programming side
    I'd be willing to help out if you'd like.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spirosample1_5488.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spirosample2_5343.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spirosample3_4194.png]\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2007-05-05 18:30:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Pretty - but letters, please!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-05 19:03:28'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'I would so love to see Adobe license this stuff for Illustrator CS 5. '
  created: '2007-05-05 19:20:14'
- author:
    name: sgh
    picture: 111405
  body: "Congratulations on your release, Raph!  Good luck with writing your dissertation---I
    look forward to reading the math behind these curves.\r\n\r\nYou might also want
    to mention on your web page that ppedit compiles on Linux (and from looking at
    the Makefile, probably Windows, too).  For those who don't want to compile ppedit
    to try it themselves, let me describe the basics:\r\n\r\nCurves are drawn with
    curve, corner, and tangent points as normal, but there are only on-curve points---no
    off-curve points.  The shape of the interpolated spline can be changed by adding
    more points to the curve and then moving them.  Moving a point added to a Bezier
    curve is a pain, because then all of the off-curve control points have to be recalculated
    to make the curve smooth.  However, Raph's program recalculates the spline to
    be smooth as you move the point (this is made easier by using the Cornu spirals,
    from my understanding), so that you always have a smooth curve.  It's actually
    more intuitive than I thought it would be, but it still takes some getting used
    to.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-05 19:24:14'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Thanks for all the positive feedback!\r\n\r\n@guifa: if you want to try your
    hand at adding open/save dialogs, that would be appreciated (currently, Apple-S
    just saves into a file called \"plate\"). Just make sure any Mac-specific code
    is bracketed by #ifdef X3_CARBON, so it doesn't break the Linux build.\r\n\r\nThe
    solver is known not to be numerically stable when the angles get big. If you stick
    with small angles, those pretty but unuseful spirals won't happen. I'm working
    on a more stable solver, but it's not ready yet. This stuff <em>is</em> rocket
    science, literally - the math I'm using is based on the calculus of variations,
    which has applications in computing optimal trajectories for spacecraft.\r\n\r\n@hrant:
    Inconsolata was designed entirely using these spirals, as was Christian Gothic
    and pretty much all of my work-in-progress for the last year or so. The .plate
    files for Inconsolata are all posted.\r\n\r\nOn the Mac, you can open a .plate
    file by going to the directory containing ppedit.app, and typing  \"./ppedit.app/Contents/MacOS/ppedit
    u.plate\". Obviously, a real Open dialog would be much more useful.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/u_5308.png]\r\n\r\n@sgh:
    the Windows port is started, but far from complete. I probably won't finish it
    myself, because I've lately become more interested in porting the code to a web
    app.\r\n\r\n@clauses: I'm not able (due to time constraints) to do any of that
    kind of integration work myself, but would be happy to help others do so. In the
    case of Fontlab compatibility, for you to be able to edit interactively inside
    the app, they'd probably need to license the technology. A plug-in or a batch-mode
    converter could probably be done as a separate module, though, which would be
    compatible with the free GPL licensing terms.\r\n\r\nAnd there's been talk of
    using the UFO format as a container for the curves, similar to the .plate file
    but in XML. (It's said that XML is for people who feel that Lisp doesn't have
    enough parentheses).\r\n\r\n@jpad: I would <em>love</em> that, of course.\r\n\r\nBecause
    I'm starting at Google in a couple weeks, I won't be beating the bushes myself
    to push this technology out into the world. To a large extent, I'm \"throwing
    the technology over the fence.\" It's an opportunity to see what the community
    can do with it, both in the free software world (it's being demoed today at LGM
    in Montreal), and whether users can generate enough interest and excitement to
    spur proprietary vendors to pony up for a license. It is my experience that companies
    tend to be <em>extremely</em> reluctant to do such things. I'd like to be proven
    wrong, but that's the main reason I'm taking a job in the advertising industry
    rather than trying to make a go on my own with technology licensing.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-05 19:57:39'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Well, I hope the people at inkscape see your work and consider adding it to
    theirs. Good luck at Google.
  created: '2007-05-05 20:28:24'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I could see a lot of nice things that could be in an OS X specific build.
    \ I'll take a look at the code when I get a chance and see if there's a way I
    can convert (or maybe it's already being done) the drawing view into an NSView.
    \ Once that's done, it seems you basically have everything you need to make a
    really sharp looking Mac app.\r\n\r\nAnd hrant: those are too letters ... for
    my ... uh... dingbat font.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que
    apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier
    Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2007-05-05 22:14:22'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "Oh God I'd wish I could program. These new kinds of approaches to designing
    digital type on the terms of a digital process are needed. The way the hand could
    draw the 'right' curves on paper is lost in the B\xE9zier approach. Combine what
    you are doing with something like Metafont and we would have something truly mindblowing.
    Ahh dreams."
  created: '2007-05-05 23:59:40'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "@clauses: It is compatible with FontForge's SFD, and as Fontforge recently
    added python scripting and native UFO support, you should be able to pipe it through
    FontForge to UFO and to FontLab. Why you'd want FontLab at all is a mystery to
    me, though, since Spiro and FontForge is more than capable - just look at Inconsolata
    :-) Also, regarding MetaFont, I figure the way it goes directly from code to bitmaps
    is its biggest problem. If it went to (Spiro) outlines, that would allow a \"dreamweaver\"
    code/design view and workflow. \r\n\r\n@guifa: Mac OS X only features would be
    a shame - I hope it will remain as cross platform as possible\r\n\r\n@jpad: I
    was discussing Inkscape integration with the Inkscape developers <a href=\"http://www.libregraphicsmeeting.org\">at
    the LGM today</a> and its definitely going in, although on a medium time frame
    - as part of the existing lib2geom efforts. "
  created: '2007-05-06 08:49:17'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "I didn't mean OS X only features per se.  Only that I think it would be possible
    to encapsulate the spiral view into an NSView, thus making it no different to
    Interface Builder than an NSTextField.  Again, I've not had a look at the source
    yet (I do plan on it tho) and so I'm not sure how separate you've got the different
    parts of the app, although if you're heading off to Google I'd imagine it's nicely
    modularised.  \r\n\r\nThere are menu options for changing betwixt corner and curve
    points, etc.  With those hooks, it could definitely open up some interesting possibilities
    if it can be made into a framework, which would still (I'd think) remain quite
    platform independent as well as make it more accessible to other developers for
    any number of other applications besides just font-design.  If I'm rambling a
    bit excuse me, it is cinco de mayo (well, now it's seis de mayo).\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2007-05-06 09:03:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Why you\u2019d want FontLab at all is a mystery to me\r\n\r\nCome on.\r\n\r\n>
    regarding MetaFont, I figure the way it goes directly\r\n> from code to bitmaps
    is its biggest problem.\r\n\r\nIt's not a problem if you see it for what it is:
    a combination of glyph descriptor and RIP. But a very real -and somewhat related-
    problem of Metafont is its foundation on the theory that letters should have skeletons.
    This is a naive, primitive and fatal fallacy, and one at the heart of chirography
    as well. It's the reason Computer Modern looks so crappy.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-06 14:24:23'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "@guifa: It's an HIView, which is almost the same thing as an NSView.\r\n\r\nYou'll
    find that the code is factored to be quite modular, but perhaps not quite in the
    way that you'd expect. Writing truly cross-platform apps is hard. If I didn't
    care about that, I'd have done this as a Cocoa app, in Objective C, using NIB's.
    As it is, the UI is built procedurally, and there's a layer (x3) which translates
    that into the code for Carbon or Gtk+2. (it could do Windows too; that's a Small
    Matter of Programming).\r\n\r\nSo, for example, the menu item for \"delete point\"
    is created thus:\r\n\r\n<code>    x3menuitem(menu, \"Delete Point\", \"delp\",
    \"&lt;cmd&gt;d\");\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nThe point is that you don't have to do redo
    all the UI work for each platform. An earlier version (see carbon_main.c) did
    load a NIB, and that was ok, but I like it better the way it is now.\r\n\r\n@abattis:
    <em>It is compatible with FontForge\u2019s SFD</em>\r\n\r\nNot really. There's
    a batch-mode converter that spits out .sfd files. It's certainly doable to write
    a batch-mode converter for (cubic Bezier flavor) UFO's, or whatever FontLab accepts
    most natively. Given that FontLab is Python-scriptable, it should also be quite
    feasible to  write a non-interactive import plugin that can be selected from the
    UI. In other words, an \"import spiro plate\" menu item.\r\n\r\nThere are different
    levels of compatibility. Batch-mode conversion is the lowest, interactive editing
    with lossless round-trip is the highest. If people seriously want to use these
    tools in production, anything less than that is a time-waster.\r\n\r\nAnd as for
    FontForge, it kinda works for me, but there are lots of features of FontLab I
    miss, like stroke offset that isn't horribly buggy, Python scripting, a sane UI
    for OpenType contextual programming, etc. I've also had to fix a few bugs in it.
    Fortunately, because I am a rocket scientist, I can do that, but for most type
    designers, I think the experience will be less than fulfilling.\r\n\r\n@hrant:
    <em>problem of Metafont is its foundation on the theory that letters should have
    skeletons.</em>\r\n\r\nMetafont doesn't force you into that mode. The Computer
    Modern fonts are all defined as strokes, but AMS Euler is done more or less using
    the same technology as Adobe Type 1. Of course, Euler doesn't have any of the
    optical scaling or variation features either.\r\n\r\n@clauses: The real power
    of Spiro comes out when you combine the spline fitter with techniques for variation.
    I have some ideas on this, which I will write up soon. My experiments thus far
    have been very encouraging, suggesting that it will be <em>much</em> easier to
    use than Multiple Master technology. Here's an experiment I did with linear interpolation
    of the control points to blend a weight axis:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/interp_seq_4134.png]\r\n\r\nThe
    advantage of this technique is that all of the blends are guaranteed to have smooth
    curvature too. Using Beziers, in the general case, there's no guarantee of smoothness
    of any kind."
  children:
  - author:
      name: abattis
      picture: 112245
    body: "@Raph: <em>And as for FontForge, it kinda works for me, but there are lots
      of features of FontLab I miss, like stroke offset that isn\u2019t horribly buggy,
      Python scripting, a sane UI for OpenType contextual programming</em> \r\n\r\n<a
      href=\"http://fontforge.sourceforge.net/changelog.html\">Python scripting got
      added to FontForge last week, along with a total rework of OpenType features
      and lookups.</a>"
    created: '2007-05-07 06:31:04'
  created: '2007-05-06 16:29:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Metafont does support outlining and not just expanded strokes, but the only
    real reason to use Metafont is its parametric abilities, and (please correct me
    if I'm wrong) these only work with strokes. What would be amazing is if somehow
    we could use parametrics with outlines; even more amazing would be a GUI for that!\r\n\r\nThe
    variation angle you mention seems very interesting, although\r\nI don't get exactly
    why spirals would be better at it than beziers.\r\n\r\n> lossless round-trip\r\n\r\nDo
    you really mean that?\r\n1) I thought it can't be lossless.\r\n2) It really only
    has to be one-way to be sufficiently useful.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: sgh
      picture: 111405
    body: "@hrant: <cite>Metafont does support outlining and not just expanded strokes,
      but the only real reason to use Metafont is its parametric abilities, and (please
      correct me if I\u2019m wrong) these only work with strokes.</cite>\r\n\r\nMetaPost
      (essentially MetaFont for Postscript) supports outlines, and of course since
      everything is scriptable, parametric abilities are available to work with strokes.
      <a href=\"http://www.ctan.org/tex-archive/fonts/utilities/metatype1/\">MetaType1</a>
      is a set of MetaPost macros that makes it easy to make a CFF-based font (Type1
      or CFF-flavored OTF).  My font <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/31970\">Aurulent
      Sans</a> is being developed using MetaType1.  The use of a weight parameter
      can be seen when comparing the regular and bold weights.\r\n\r\n<cite>What would
      be amazing is if somehow we could use parametrics with outlines; even more amazing
      would be a GUI for that!</cite>\r\n\r\nThe ability to script is much more powerful
      than just the parametrics, and GUIs aren't very good for representing scripts.
      \ If you're just interested in the parametrics, then it might be possible to
      represent them graphically, but here the main problem is that the dimension
      of the parameter space is probably too high to represent visually in a meaningful
      form.\r\n"
    created: '2007-05-06 19:38:51'
  created: '2007-05-06 16:52:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> parametric abilities are available to work with strokes.\r\n\r\nSo has
    anybody designed a MetaPost outline font where the x-height is parametric?\r\n\r\n>
    Aurulent Sans ... weight parameter\r\n\r\nIt's nice to see such an effort. The
    question is (and this might be difficult to answer) was it worth the effort, compared
    to a \"plain\" interpolation setup in FontLab?\r\n\r\n> the dimension of the parameter
    space is probably too high to represent visually\r\n\r\nMaybe I'm not getting
    you, but for a font that's meant\r\nto be read the parameters can't really stray
    <cite>too</cite> far...\r\n\r\n> The ability to script is much more powerful than
    just the parametrics\r\n\r\nBut FontLab has the former, but not the latter,\r\nso
    the <cite>valuable</cite> sort of power is in the latter.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: sgh
      picture: 111405
    body: "@hrant: <cite>So has anybody designed a MetaPost outline font where the
      x-height is parametric?</cite>\r\n\r\nx-height is a parameter in Aurulent Sans,
      and I imagine it is as well in other MetaType1-designed fonts, such as Antykwa
      Toru\u0144ska, Antykwa P\xF3\u0142tawskiego, Kurier, and Iwona.\r\n\r\n<cite>The
      question is (and this might be difficult to answer) was it worth the effort,
      compared to a \u201Cplain\u201D interpolation setup in FontLab?</cite>\r\n\r\nTo
      me, scripting the outline of a glyph is MUCH easier than drawing it graphically.
      \ I find it much easier to say \"Put point A here.  Put point B here.  Put point
      C here. Put point D 1/3 of the way between B and C. Draw a smooth curve from
      A to D to E, etc\".  That way I don't have to worry about whether the curve
      is smooth or not, where to put control points, etc.  (Well, that's a bit of
      lie, often I need to give MetaType1 a little bit more help, but not too often.)
      \ And if the width changes, or the x-height changes, then the position of point
      A, etc is automatically recalculated when the scripts are run again.\r\n\r\n<cite>The
      ability to script is much more powerful than just the parametrics</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>But
      FontLab has the former, but not the latter,\r\nso the valuable sort of power
      is in the latter.</cite>\r\n\r\nI have never used FontLab, so I don't know its
      scripting language.  However, based on your comment, it sounds like it is not
      as powerful as MetaType1.  Can you do the type of outline construction I described
      above?  The parametric power comes from using the parameters in the construction.
      \ Of course, it is also (somewhat) difficult to create construction scripts
      that capture parameters.  See this <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/29008\">discussion</a>
      and this <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/29008\">discussion</a> for thoughts
      on why a more parametric approach has not been more frequently used.\r\n"
    created: '2007-05-07 09:21:00'
  created: '2007-05-07 02:01:28'
- author:
    name: rosaiani
    picture: 109721
  body: "I like this a lot, this should be a great option to Bezier editing, hopefully
    it will make my s (no pun intended) look better!\r\nCongratulations, and I think
    we are in front of the next Pierre Bezier right here...\r\nVery honored cheers\r\nRodrigo"
  created: '2007-05-07 04:45:59'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "@abattis: <em>Python scripting got added to FontForge last week</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    seriously cool news. I can still imagine that most professional type designers
    would rather use FontLab though.\r\n\r\n@hrant: <em>&gt; the dimension of the
    parameter space is probably too high to represent visually</em>\r\n\r\nComputer
    Modern has something on the order of 60 parameters for things ranging from the
    obvious ascender/descender height to more subtle things like the parameters for
    the serifs. That's a very high dimensionality of the parameter space, even if
    the <em>amount</em> of the change is subtle.\r\n\r\nThe key to making variation
    work for people who don't have advanced computer science degrees is to keep the
    number of dimensions down. Here's an outline of my ideas for that:\r\n\r\n1. For
    optical scaling, use stroke offset for the bulk of the effect, with a little optional
    squooshing.\r\n\r\n2. For things like ascender and descender lengths, allow points
    to be put on <em>frames</em> which can move independently of the main em. So,
    then, to lengthen descenders, pull the descender frame (global to the font) down.\r\n\r\n3.
    For everything else, do interpolation. My gut feeling is that 2-dimensional interpolation
    (the corners of a quadrilateral) is the most that is intuitive to work with, and,
    if you can keep it to one, that's even better.\r\n\r\nThe number of active frames
    in any one glyph should be no more than three or so. The main thing interpolation
    is used for is weight (like the above image).\r\n\r\nAlso note that one of the
    most important aspects of optical scaling is the spacing and kerning. That can
    probably be done using simple interpolation between a \"big\" and a \"little\"
    size.\r\n\r\n@rosaini: Thanks! Nice spirals in your avatar.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-07 07:41:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> That\u2019s a very high dimensionality of the parameter space\r\n\r\nOK.
    Was that what Stephen was talking about? Also: assuming\r\nthe parameters don't
    interact (too much) couldn't one decide\r\nto display/manipulate one or two at
    a time?\r\n\r\n> x-height is a parameter in Aurulent Sans\r\n\r\nCould we see
    how [well] it works out?\r\n\r\n> based on your comment, it sounds like it is
    not as powerful as MetaType1.\r\n\r\nWhat comment?\r\nFontLab's scripting is Python,
    and everybody says it's plenty powerful.\r\n\r\nWhat would be nice is to fold
    in parametric design.\r\n\r\n> See this discussion and this discussion\r\n\r\nThe
    two links are the same.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: sgh
      picture: 111405
    body: "@hrant: <cite>Was that what Stephen was talking about?</cite> (regarding
      high dimensionality)\r\n\r\nYes.\r\n\r\n<em> sgh> based on your comment, it
      sounds like it is not as powerful as MetaType1.\r\n\r\nhrant> What comment?\r\nFontLab\u2019s
      scripting is Python, and everybody says it\u2019s plenty powerful.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
      comment I was referring to was:  \r\n\r\n<em> sgh> The ability to script is
      much more powerful than just the parametrics\r\n\r\nhrant> But FontLab has the
      former, but not the latter,\r\nso the valuable sort of power is in the latter.</em>\r\n\r\nYou
      seem to be saying that parametric design cannot be done with FontLab's scripting
      tools.  As I mentioned, I have never used FontLab, so I have no idea what the
      actual capability is.  Just because FontLab uses Python, though, does not mean
      that the FontLab Python interface allows the needed operations.  Possibly more
      importantly, is whether the interface makes it easy to design glyphs parametrically.
      \ \r\n\r\nHere's an easy test for someone who knows Python scripting in FontLab:
      \ given the parameters of width, cap height, left and right side-bearing, vertical
      stroke width, and horizontal stroke width, draw a sans serif uppercase H.  Then
      draw an uppercase O.  If this can be done easily, then FontLab scripting has
      the potential for parametric design.\r\n\r\n<cite>The two links are the same.</cite>\r\n\r\nOops.
      \ The two links should have been this <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/29008\">discussion</a>
      and this <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/8194\">discussion</a>.\r\n"
    created: '2007-05-07 15:53:47'
  - author:
      name: sgh
      picture: 111405
    body: "<em>sgh> x-height is a parameter in Aurulent Sans\r\n\r\nhrant> Could we
      see how [well] it works out?</em>\r\n\r\nWhat would you like to see?"
    created: '2007-05-07 15:56:03'
  created: '2007-05-07 15:22:36'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "Did anyone ever get to play around with FontChameleon Pro before it was pulled
    from public consumption? Voices seem to rave about how fantastic it was. I guess
    it was not fully parametric, but relied to some extent on some predesigned endpoint
    to interpolate from? The reason I'm thinking about it is the fact that a number
    of parametric type engines have come and gone through the years. There is Metafont,
    FontChameleon, Incubator(?), LiveType and some HP stuff i forgot the name of.
    Why where they never successful? I can certainly understand why Metafont never
    went of the ground as it's made for the programmer and not for the designer (correct
    me if I'm wrong here). Is this parametric approach simply too complicated for
    the designer to take anywhere, or was it just the lack of GUI that kept it off?
    FontChamelon seemed to go all the way to the user, skipping the designer, which
    was it's point I guess.\r\n\r\n@Raph: That interpolation you showed is exactly
    what I want."
  created: '2007-05-07 18:40:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> You seem to be saying that parametric design\r\n> cannot be done with FontLab\u2019s
    scripting tools.\r\n\r\nNo, I don't know enough to say either way (and I don't
    see how I implied otherwise). On the other hand Python being a fully capable language
    shouldn't have a problem. The real problem is that there's not enough money in
    type for something that hard to happen, at least not quickly.\r\n\r\n> whether
    the interface makes it easy to design glyphs parametrically.\r\n\r\nTo most people
    that means a GUI, and the answer is definitely\r\nNo in the case of FontLab...
    but really just as No for anything else.\r\n\r\n> What would you like to see?\r\n\r\nLet's
    say \"skagy\" varying from a pretty small to a pretty large x-height.\r\n\r\nFontChameleon:
    I think I had a copy once, didn't get to really use it, and\r\nthen something
    quite mysterious happened and we've become deprived.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: sgh
      picture: 111405
    body: "sgh> <cite>x-height is a parameter in Aurulent Sans</cite>\r\n\r\n@hrant>
      <cite>Could we see how [well] it works out?\r\nLet\u2019s say \u201Cskagy\u201D
      varying from a pretty small to a pretty large x-height.</cite>\r\n\r\nSorry
      about the delay in doing this, but I was traveling and then forgot about it.
      \ I've posted a sample that shows varying x-height in Aurulent Sans in that
      font's <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/31970\">critique</a>.  The amount
      of time it took me was changing one line and hitting recompile.  The tricky
      part was figuring out how to install several different versions of the same
      font. :)\r\n\r\nThe ability to change basic parameters globally over the entire
      font is quite nice, but it does require planning the scripts (somewhat) carefully.
      \ For instance, I can't push the x-height much over 600, because then the script
      that generates the question mark barfs.  Of course, as Hrant pointed out, it's
      presumed that the parameters won't vary too much from the value in mind when
      the scripts are written.\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-05-20 05:44:37'
  created: '2007-05-07 19:57:37'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "Wow. This is really nice. Kudos for sharing the code. I'm hoping that we'll
    see more in the future.\r\n\r\nAny thoughts on releasing the code under a more
    permissive license so it can be used in a certain well known commercial app? I
    realize that there is the remote potential that you might be able to license it,
    but it would be a real shame if the stuff never got picked up."
  created: '2007-05-08 01:16:15'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "If you need any convincing about the value of this technology, sit down and
    try to draw an s. It's fantastic. What took me forever to figure out with beziers
    happened almost automatically here.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/s_spiro_5780.png]"
  created: '2007-05-08 01:52:05'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Christian: suffice it to say that I've put a lot of thought into my licensing
    strategy, and am pretty happy with it.\r\n\r\nBasically, if you're a type designer
    and want to have this kind of curve drawing tool in a production environment,
    you have four choices:\r\n\r\n1. Learn to code and do it yourself.\r\n\r\n2. Show
    some love to the free software community, and encourage them to integrate it into
    their leading design apps (Inkscape, FontForge).\r\n\r\n3. Lobby the proprietary
    app vendors to license it.\r\n\r\n4. Sit on your @ss and hope somebody else does
    1-3.\r\n\r\nGlad you like it!\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-08 05:33:15'
- author:
    name: rosaiani
    picture: 109721
  body: "This makes my self esteem rise a million percent. It was done in 10 minutes.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/s_6252.gif]\r\n\r\nWish
    I could export it to illutrator and to hell with the pen tool ;)"
  created: '2007-05-08 05:36:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Million percent\r\n\r\nHate to burst your bubble, but your S doesn't have
    the curves of Christian Robertson's S--and it isn't as good. You can debate how
    much it is Christian and how much the spiral tools. But here Christian says it
    was natural and easy for him to get a result with the spiral tools that would
    have been difficult and laborious with Bezier curves."
  created: '2007-05-08 12:53:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'This is extremely interesting and I''m sure useful. The "traditional" S test,
    however, is of a specific S. And even before that, the "traditional" contour format
    test is to scan and digitize an FC-339 8 1/4" French Curve. e.g. http://www.steinlaufandstoller.com/French%20Curves%20Plastic.htm,
    and then, in this case, do post digitization traslations to CB and QB, so you
    can see it filled to black in output, or on the screen as the case may be. '
  created: '2007-05-08 13:58:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">French Curve\r\n\r\nLooking at some internet sites, it seems that the most
    widely used French Curves are composed of sections of parabolas, hyperbolas, and
    elipses. These are all conic sections, can be described by quadratic equations,
    and hence can be drawn perfectly by quadratic bezier curves.  \r\n\r\nThe Cornu
    spirals here are different. If I understand it rightly, sections between knots
    cannot be drawn accurately with either a *single* quadratic or cubic curve, though
    of course they can be approximated with multiple curves of either type.     \r\n\r\nI
    don't know if the Cornu spiral is on any French Curves. "
  created: '2007-05-08 14:37:11'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "@dberlow: The fact of a standardized test for drawing ability is most interesting.
    Do you have a cite in a book or journal for that test? If not, I can always do
    \"personal communication\".\r\n\r\nI took your challenge, starting with an image
    of the FC-339 from the <a href=\"http://www.cthruruler.com/collections/show.php?product_id=22&collection_id=194>C-thru</a>
    site. The drawing took about 8 minutes, and there are a total of 50 points.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fc-339-ppedit_4969.png]\r\n\r\nAnd
    the conversion to Beziers (43 segments, each of which has 3 control points):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fc-339-bez_3491.png]\r\n\r\nAnd
    here it is filled (<a href=\"http://levien.com/spiro/fc-339.pdf\">PDF here</a>
    if you want to print it out).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fc-339-black_6633.png]\r\n\r\nHow'd
    I do?\r\n\r\n@William: I believe it is used on some real french curves, because
    it's one of the relatively few analytical curves that has a nice inflection point
    in it. But I don't have a good cite. Again, one would be useful."
  created: '2007-05-08 16:37:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, as I explained in the other thread, it's not about evaluating the
    results out of context, it's about how much effort Raph's method saves. Whether
    Rodrigo's \"S\" is better or worse than Christian's is irrelevant; the point is
    to consider how much effort each of them saved in getting to that in-some-way
    satisfactory result.\r\n\r\n> the \u201Ctraditional\u201D contour format test
    is to scan and digitize ...\r\n> http://www.steinlaufandstoller.com/French%20Curves%20Plastic.htm\r\n\r\nWhy
    does one have to wait 9+ years to be told something this relevant!  :-/\r\nWhen
    you think about it though I guess it's common sense. Aaah, hindsight!\r\n\r\nBTW,
    what exactly is the traditional \"S\" test?\r\n\r\n> ... can be drawn perfectly
    by quadratic bezier curves.\r\n\r\nYet once more: it's not about this being possible\r\nor
    not, it's about this being worth doing or not.\r\n\"Perfectly\" should not come
    into the discussion.\r\n\r\nIt's possible to go to the grocery store crawling
    on\r\nyour back, naked. This does not make it worth doing.\r\nAnd the \"imperfection\"
    of using a car, a bicycle or\r\nyour feet does not make any of those a bad idea.\r\n\r\n>
    The drawing took about 8 minutes, and there are a total of 50 points.\r\n\r\nNow
    this is getting relevant. How much time would it take you to do it with beziers?
    It would be useful here to ask David to time himself with both methods too, since
    you'd like to get the view form both ends: somebody used to drawing with cornus
    more and somebody used to drawing with beziers more.\r\n\r\nAlso, some overlays
    would be very useful, since your \"thresh\" and \"optim\" settings don't mean
    anything to us. An overlay of the spiral original over the converted bezier, and
    one of the end result black shape over the original piece of plastic. Please?
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-08 17:39:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Christian:\r\n> What took me forever to figure out with\r\n> beziers happened
    almost automatically here.\r\n\r\nThat implies cornus are better when you're starting
    out in type design; but an equally important issue is: for somebody with experience
    with beziers, would you say they're about the same in the end, or do cornus have
    an advantage there too?\r\n\r\n> 3. Lobby the proprietary app vendors to license
    it.\r\n\r\nTo me adding cornu support seems like just the ticket to encourage
    upgrades to FontLab 6... In fact right this minute they might be desperately trying
    to figure out how to add value to their product to keep the upgrade money coming!
    That said, an email campaign by users can only help.\r\n\r\nBTW Raph: what term
    should we be using for this - cornus, spirals, or what?\r\nSomething short would
    be great.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-08 17:50:56'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite>Hrant: BTW, what exactly is the traditional \u201CS\u201D test?</cite>\r\n\r\nDavid
    will correct me if I'm wrong, but from what I understand from a conversation with
    Mike Parker, the traditional test administered to someone applying for employment
    in the Linotype drawing office, in the \"good ol' days,\" was the task of reproducing
    freehand (I'm talking about drawing here -- pencils and paper, you know) a specific
    'S' from a given model typeface, in order to gauge their innate talent and skill.
    \r\n\r\nI don't know if it was the same 'S' each time, or if there was a time
    limit.\r\n\r\n-- K.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-08 19:15:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Maybe not a strict time-limit, but I'm sure at least an\r\ninternal biological
    stopwatch would've been running!  :-)\r\n\r\nBTW, isn't today's \"freehand\" direct-digital?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-08 19:26:28'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "@hrant: <em>An overlay of the spiral original over the converted bezier</em>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fc-339-overlay_6327.png]\r\n\r\nThe
    Bezier version is a 1px red stroke, and the spiral version is on top in black.
    You can see a teeny difference on the left hand of the top curve. If you tweak
    the \"thresh\" parameter, it'll add more Beziers to make the error go as small
    as you like. I picked the .01 number as the default for my work because the error
    is just below the threshold of what you can see when you look at the shapes side-by-side.
    Setting it to .001 adds nine beziers (for a total of 52), and the visual difference
    becomes undetectable even when zoomed. Btw, if you want to zoom in on the above
    comparison, I put up a <a href=\"http://levien.com/spiro/fc-339-overlay.pdf\">PDF</a>.\r\n\r\nI
    tried overlaying the black-filled version over the original photo, but I couldn't
    get anything that seemed as clear as the first image above, partly because of
    the low contrast of the original. I have done the same thing with letters - maybe
    I should post some images from that?\r\n\r\n<em>what term should we be using for
    this - cornus, spirals, or what?</em>\r\n\r\nI kinda like \"spirals\". Cornu spirals
    are actually only one case. The most general case is a third order polynomial
    spiral, which I sometimes abbreviate \"spiro\". Incidentally, Cornu didn't invent
    the spiral bearing his name, Euler did, so they should really be called \"Euler
    spirals\".\r\n\r\n<em>How much time would it take you to do it with beziers?</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    for me to do it wouldn't exactly be fair, because I want my tools to win. But
    I'd be very interested to learn how long it takes <em>you,</em> Hrant, and whether
    you're as satisfied with the technical quality.\r\n\r\nActually, what I think
    I'd like to do is pose a real challenge. Maybe a neutral Typophile person (Tiff?
    Stephen?) could serve as moderator. It would go something like this: the moderator
    selects a high quality image of a predigital glyph, something like 1000px square,
    and posts it at a pre-arranged time. Then, people post followups to that thread
    containing their best shot, using the tools of their choice - Spiro, Illustrator,
    FontLab, QB's, CB's, IkarusMaster, whatever. Reports of drawing time can be verified
    by the post timestamp, and then the moderator would judge the quality.\r\n\r\nSound
    like fun? I would write up the results in a section of my thesis, as part of the
    case I'm trying to make is that spirals are more intuitive, more productive, and
    more conducive to high-quality results. Going up against the best skills of Typophiles
    would be a real way to falsifiably test those claims.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-08 20:07:26'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Raph:\r\nI managed to make your test program crash. \r\n\r\nPID:    901\r\nThread:
    0\r\n\r\nException:  EXC_BAD_ACCESS (0x0001)\r\nCodes:      KERN_INVALID_ADDRESS
    (0x0001) at 0xc0000000\r\n\r\n\r\nShould I send you the full report?"
  created: '2007-05-08 20:20:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The Bezier version is a 1px red stroke, and the spiral version is on top
    in black.\r\n\r\nOh.\r\nWell goldangit then that's plenty close enough!\r\n\r\nIt's
    nice to see that such a close approximation\r\ndoesn't result in an infestation
    of vertices.\r\n\r\nWhat does the \"optim\" setting do?\r\n\r\nConcerning an overlay
    of the physical French curve and your end-result, we don't really need the former,
    we just need the original (1-bit) shape you started with. But if you think the
    threshold for that is as tight as the first overlay, don't bother.\r\n\r\n> Cornu
    didn\u2019t invent the spiral bearing his name, Euler did\r\n\r\nWell, and apparently
    Pierre didn't invent beziers, Paul de Casteljau did, but these things can stick
    and trying to unstick them distracts from true work! On the other hand Euler was
    da man (as Laplace* found out the hard way) and it's early days so maybe we can
    do something.\r\n\r\n* Or was it somebody else? I'm vaguely it might have been
    an Englishman instead. Whoever it was invented some polynomial math, and then
    found out it was merely a special case of something Euler had done long before!\r\n\r\n>
    I\u2019d be very interested to learn how long it takes you, Hrant\r\n\r\nYeah,
    me too. Windows version please!\r\n\r\nYour broader challenge sounds fun and relevant.\r\nBut
    no need to bother with formal timekeeping - we can trust us.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-08 20:35:24'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "<em>What does the \u201Coptim\u201D setting do?</em>\r\n\r\nIt's a speed/optimization
    tradeoff. At zero, it's interactively fast but generates about three times as
    many Beziers as is needed. At three, it (currently) takes about a minute, but
    generates something like the absolute most optimized cubic Bezier representation
    possible for the curve. The main thing it's doing at level 3 is exhaustively searching
    all points along the curve to find the best points to break - at the lower levels,
    it just splits the curve in half whenever a single Bezier is not sufficient. There'll
    be more detail in my thesis, of course.\r\n\r\n<em>But no need to bother with
    formal timekeeping - we can trust us.</em>\r\n\r\nI think we can too, but I'd
    like to remove as many variables that could spoil the results as I can.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-08 21:02:24'
- author:
    name: rosaiani
    picture: 109721
  body: Not trying to compare to his at all William (his S sure is a very nice S),
    it'll probably take a million years till a get the letter s to look like I want
    it to... It may not look perfect, but it certain took 1/millionth of the time
    to get done. If the tool is useful only to know that I suck at drawing "s" in
    less time, it's fair enough for me.
  created: '2007-05-08 22:28:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm surprised the conversion is so computationally intensive.\r\nMust be
    a good sign.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-08 22:34:09'
- author:
    name: G T
    picture: 128201
  body: "raph, \r\n\r\nMay I ask how you converted to beziers?\r\n\r\nI am unable
    to export my doodlings in any way, and the save option doesn't appear to do anything.\r\n\r\nI
    do find spiro a much quicker and intuitive way of drawing. I have used the bezier
    tool for many years and feel that I am quite proficient, but this is so quick.
    It seems more natural.\r\n\r\nThanks, \r\n\r\nG"
  children:
  - author:
      name: raph
      picture: 109741
    body: "@Graham_Taylor: <em>May I ask how you converted to beziers?</em>\r\n\r\nThis
      part of the code is very rough and unfinished. When you press Apple-S, it saves
      the file \"plate\" into the file system, into the current directory, not sure
      exactly where that is by default on a mac. (a quick test reveals that it seems
      to go into / , which is not friendly behavior). Similarly, when you press Apple-P,
      it saves a PostScript file to /tmp/foo.ps. I then use some command-line scripts
      (mostly written in Python) to optimize the Beziers, etc. These scripts ship
      in the spiro tarball, but not in the ppedit.dmg disk image.\r\n\r\nDave Crossland
      (abattis) is planning on writing better documentation soon, which I think will
      be very helpful.\r\n\r\n@biddy: thanks!\r\n"
    children:
    - author:
        name: G T
        picture: 128201
      body: "raph, \r\n\r\nThanks, although i only get the part about where it saves
        (and although I get it, am unable to find these directories), rather than
        the 'command-line scripts' bit as i'm fairly (completely) ignorant when it
        comes to whatever that entails. \r\n\r\nI guess i'll just have to wait until
        some bright spark puts it in some software I can utilise.\r\n\r\nI wish I
        were more patient.\r\n\r\nThanks for sharing all this though.\r\n\r\nG"
      created: '2007-05-09 21:23:34'
    created: '2007-05-09 00:58:17'
  created: '2007-05-09 00:27:41'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: This looks like some amazing stuff. I'm surprised more type designers haven't
    chimed in on this conversation. Where are you all?
  created: '2007-05-09 00:46:11'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Didn't have time until now to test it. I learned to digitize type with Ikarus,
    so it's not completely unfamiliar. It seems to be flexible enough to allow the
    fine tuning I want, but right now, I'm so acclimated to beziers that I'd need
    more time to get used to the different behavior. I couldn't necessarily compare
    my drawing speed between Beziers and spirals because most of my actual design
    work is spent adjusting existing outlines. I don't do a lot of revivals, and I
    don't do big finished drawings anymore, so the speed at which I can digitize an
    outline isn't a big factor. Major editing happens after the first round of proofs.
    I can already slap an outline together in bezier format in record time. It's not
    finished no matter how much I fuss over it initially. \r\n\r\nRaph, I don't want
    to rain on your challenge, but this means I can't gauge quality or speed based
    on immediate digitization results; it's very iterative, and \"accuracy\" isn't
    my concern, rightness of design is, which is revealed with testing and use."
  created: '2007-05-09 01:21:34'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "crossgrove: You make a very good point. Making good, quick digitizations
    isn't the only way to evaluate curve-drawing techniques.\r\n\r\nMy subjective
    experience is that Spiro is extremely good for making fine edits. You can tweak
    points around without having to worry about technical details like extremal points,
    and, in general, the changes \"make sense\". I've done quite a bit of this with
    both my revivals and my original designs (Inconsolata and Cecco). The warm, fuzzy
    feeling that I get when drawing has done a lot to motivate me to go more deeply
    into the math behind the curves, so that I know at multiple levels that the curves
    are \"right.\"\r\n\r\nAt some point, you go beyond what can be quantified, and
    into the realm of what it <em>feels</em> like to use the tool. I'm hoping that
    enough people spend enough time playing with it that I can start to get more insight
    into that, in addition to my own personal experience.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-09 02:10:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> You can tweak points around without having to\r\n> worry about technical
    details like extremal points\r\n\r\nThis I don't get. You don't <cite>have</cite>
    to worry about extrema when you're doing bezier drawing either - you can add those
    in later, which furthermore is something you'd have to do with/after spiral-to-bezier
    conversion anyway.\r\n\r\n> into the realm of what it feels like to use the tool.\r\n\r\nYyyup.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-09 02:21:01'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "<cite>Raph, I don\u2019t want to rain on your challenge, but this means I
    can\u2019t gauge quality or speed based on immediate digitization results; it\u2019s
    very iterative, and \u201Caccuracy\u201D isn\u2019t my concern, rightness of design
    is, which is revealed with testing and use.</cite>\r\n\r\nCarl I tend to agree.
    The S-test is not quantitative enough, I mean, what will it show? That some people
    drew the outline to be the 'right' design, so that it looked right independently
    from the scan. While others tried to make it very close to the scan, while again
    others tried to make the curves look very smooth?\r\n\r\nThe proof is in the making
    of great looking type \u2013 fast. With all the complications of automatized interpolation,
    with all it's stretching, squeezing, tilting and embolding. I have the feeling
    that the true value of designing in spirals lies in the automatization of these
    things, which leads me back to my earlier fantasies about Metafont. So Hrant,
    when you say that the idea that letters should have skeletons is fatal, what do
    you mean? Others are welcome to enlighten me on this as well."
  created: '2007-05-09 02:21:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What I mean is that when you look at glyphs as being built up from \"fattened\"
    skeletons (for example if you see an \"A\" as being made up of a right thick diagonal,
    a left thin diagonal and a thin horizontal) you're not designing what people read,
    hence you're designing the wrong thing; and the \"reality\" of serifs for example
    intimately fits in to this issue. I know it's hard (I  mean I personally know!)
    to not think in this way, but you simply cannot arrive at \"ideal\" (which does
    not remotely mean \"perfect\") text type by thinking in terms of skeletons.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-09 02:29:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Carl \"I can\u2019t gauge quality or speed based on immediate digitization
    results; it\u2019s very iterative, and \u201Caccuracy\u201D isn\u2019t my concern,
    rightness of design is, which is revealed with testing and use.\"\r\n\r\nI feel
    the same way. It's not getting it, it's getting it right. At least for me, I have
    to do this by trial and error, both to see how the glyph works with the rest of
    the face, to find a 'sweet' curve, and to see how it works at intended size. What
    would be great is if you get to 'sweet' quicker or more naturally with the spirals.
    I suspect this is so, at least for some situations, but of course I don't know.
    \r\n\r\nBy the way, I remember reading that Matthew Carter said something like
    \"Watching me design a typeface would be like watching a freezer freeze ice cubes.\"
    \ That is, the process involves so much incremental change, much of which might
    not mean much to someone else, but it is intense and dramatic to the designer. "
  created: '2007-05-09 02:40:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm not seeing how the intensity/speed with which a person works has make-or-break
    relevance here. Sure, some people will find spirals less intuitive, but among
    those who find them more intuitive the practical benefits will come, either when
    you're digitizing, or when you're tweaking. Yes, some people do more observation/thought
    in between the design iterations, but you still have to tweak the outlines in
    the end! And if a new tool makes creation and/or tweaking more \"natural\" then
    it's nominally worth using.\r\n\r\nThe practical question really is, lacking full
    integration\r\ninto something like FontLab, would it still be worth it?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-09 02:50:31'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "There's another factor, beyond which is faster or more intuitive. Any time
    you allow an algorithm to determine a curve for you, it will influence what the
    design looks like. Bezier curves can describe almost any shape, if you add enough
    anchor/control points, but they become difficult to manage very quickly once you
    start adding points beyond the extremes.\r\n\r\nAs a result most type designers
    don't add that many points resulting in predictable curves. What percentage of
    type these days use control points *only* at the extremes of the curves? A lot.
    How many designs born in the bezier age have slightly tapered stems? Not many.
    Why? Because it's harder to draw that way. Here the medium influences the message.\r\n\r\nFrom
    my short experience with these curves, it is much easier to manage additional
    knots, which means that lazy type designers like me will likely add more. The
    resulting designs will look at least different from the current batch if not more
    creative.\r\n\r\nIf it doesn't go into FontLab, though, I'm unlikely to use it
    :( I might give FontForge another try if it goes in there, though, even though
    X11 on OS X is gross."
  children:
  - author:
      name: abattis
      picture: 112245
    body: '@Christian: <em>I might give FontForge another try if it goes in there,
      though, even though X11 on OS X is gross.</em> X11 on OS X is gross, so why
      not try out a GNU+Linux distribution and see what free software has to offer
      all round? :-)'
    created: '2007-05-12 00:15:29'
  created: '2007-05-09 04:15:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "An interesting side point, Raph, is that <a href=\"http://www.typeworkshop.com/index.php?id1=type-basics&id2=&id3=&id4=&id5=&idpic=03#pictloader\">in
    the Underware 'Type Basics'</a> they explicitly compare good straight-to-curve
    outlines as a path like driving around a curve in a car. \r\n\r\nAccording to
    the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fresnel_integral\">wikipedia article
    on Cornu spirals</a>, the Cornu spiral is actually used to lay railroad tracks
    going from straight to curve, because it is in one way the 'ideal' for this purpose.
    Apparently it is the only curve in which the rate of change in radius is constant.
    This means that there is a  continuous linear increase in the centrifugal force
    of the train laterally against the tracks. This linearity helps preserve the track,
    as well as jostle the passengers around less.\r\n\r\nAnyway I found it interesting
    that this analogy of moving around a bend is already discussed in type design,
    and relates to the Cornu spiral. "
  created: '2007-05-09 18:16:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I also read about the relevance of cornus to transportation in the wiki,
    and I guess it makes sense that that would ensure smooth transitions! The Underware
    stuff though is corny (pardon the pun :-) because beziers don't have that attribute
    and they're basically just having fun.\r\n\r\nAnother interesting angle is that
    Renault (where P Bezier worked) apparently chose beziers over cornus. Now, that
    was for the design of bodywork and not test track design or something, but I wonder
    what their reason was for not going with such an industry precedent. Maybe beziers
    are computationally much lighter, or maybe they wanted to \"invent\" something
    New, as managers too often want to.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-09 18:33:44'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"Any time you allow an algorithm to determine a curve for you, it will influence
    what the design looks like.\"\r\n\r\nI think this is an excellent point. It ought
    to be discussed more often generally. It's hard enough to get full control of
    Beziers, and unfortunately too many type designers can't separate their design
    choices from their digital construction choices. Many of Emigre's types, even
    the recent classic revivals or homages, have this 'digital' gloss.  \r\n\r\nI
    do indeed welcome an outline format that doesn't seem to favor grid-based alignment.
    I know very intimately why rasterization is a major concern in imaging type, but
    I do think, as Christian says, this kind of thing should not have the influence
    that it currently has on the design process. Unless a design is being made specifically
    for low-res use, I'd rather focus on truly ideal node placement and efficient,
    precise editing, rather than accommodating extrema. \r\n\r\nI will need to spend
    more time drawing with this tool in order to get used to the way the curves work
    and feel. Therefore, I need to have the tool built into, or accessible in, my
    current workflow (I don't have time to experiment in a separate environment).
    Raph, I would prefer to find this drawing environment as an option in FL, FOG,
    DTL FontMaster or other commercial product."
  created: '2007-05-09 18:34:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, a digital gloss is still less bad than a chirographic gloss.\r\nBut
    I agree, we should design what we really want as much as possible.\r\n\r\n> I
    would prefer to find this drawing environment\r\n> as an option in FL, FOG, DTL
    FontMaster or other\r\n> commercial product.\r\n\r\nMe too. But we need to tell
    <cite>them</cite>, not Raph!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-09 18:45:23'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"Well, a digital gloss is still less bad than a chirographic gloss.\"\r\n\r\nMatter
    of opinion. I think you should consider this carefully. Since type is evolved
    from written language, it's a lot easier to use chirographic type than type made
    from geometric modules. When I say \"digital gloss\" it refers not only to the
    finish but the structure and the approach to letter- and type-building. Losing
    every element of chirography that has led to printed language (which is indeed
    very much a concern, look around) is much less preferable than losing technological
    constraints. When the tools have no influence, you can still make any kind of
    typeface, from radically reformist to traditional (or some combination thereof?...)."
  created: '2007-05-09 19:11:39'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "I wonder what would be required to add a third curve space to FL.  Fontlab
    is really the only option to make this mainstream. My impression is that they
    have the major market share, and given all the Fontographer pining that goes on
    here, transitioning to another program is something type designers are pretty
    resistant too, even if cornu's are better.\r\n\r\nI agree with Christian's interest
    in designing without the bezier propesity to become more unrully the more points
    you add. We've both talked about this in other threads before. (That said, using
    the FL interpolate tool instead of simply moving points is a decent work around
    for curves with many points).\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2007-05-09 19:32:52'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\u2026but can spiro find a frontal logic?\r\n\r\ntranslation:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spiro-s_3739_4742.png]\r\n\r\ntranslation
    in the downstrokes; rotation in the upstrokes:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/u_5308_5350.png]"
  created: '2007-05-09 20:47:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> can spiro find a frontal logic?\r\n\r\nI certainly hope not.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-10 01:06:56'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Some interesting points here. As a newbie to type design, I recall how much
    Font Audit controlled my design choices.\r\n\r\nCarl and Hrant: the chirography
    issue is actually something I struggle with, as I want the computer to do exactly
    what my hand does. Although type design has made me pretty comfortable with Bezier
    drawing, I still am most comfortable with ink and a brush. My latest type experiments
    have been trying to find the happy medium by taking my actual vectors from ink
    on paper. Still trying to find the right balance.\r\n\r\nRaph: Matthew mentioned
    this earlier\u2014but I'm having the same control issues with the Mac. \r\n\r\nI
    am really excited about the possibilities of this, because this actually starts
    to <em>feel</em> like drawing or painting on screen."
  created: '2007-05-10 02:36:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I still am most comfortable with ink and a brush.\r\n\r\nUsers don't need
    your comfort, you need theirs.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-10 02:41:32'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "\"Fortunately, because I am a rocket scientist, I can do that.\" \r\n\u2013Raph
    Levien\r\n\r\nThis has got to be the greatest quote, <em>ever</em>. \r\n\r\nThis
    sounds really cool, but can anyone inform me how unique and/or important this
    is? On a scale from the invention of the spork to the invention of beer, where
    does it stand in relative terms of type and type design stuff?"
  created: '2007-05-10 03:51:07'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Thanks, although i only get the part about where it saves (and although
    I get it, am unable to find these directories)</em>\r\n\r\nI can't figure out
    where comman-S saves the \"plate\" file, but the PostScipt file is pretty easy
    to find: Choose \"Go to a folder...\" from the Go menu in the Finder. Type \"/tmp/
    and hit return. The file called \"foo.ps\" is the PostScript file that is created
    when you hit command-P. Rename this before you generate a new one. It can be opened
    in Illustrator (or whatever).\r\n\r\nNote: Don't mess with any of the other files
    in /tmp/ or you could be sorry. I would also recommend moving the PS file(s) to
    somewhere more convenient."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Toby
      picture: 109971
    body: "<cite>I can\u2019t figure out where comman-S saves the \u201Cplate\u201D
      file</cite>\r\nIt goes straight into your system root directory, at least here
      it does.."
    created: '2007-05-10 08:46:13'
  created: '2007-05-10 04:10:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Ralph: \"How\u2019d I do?\"\r\nExtremely well. In fact, I could only be caught
    quibbling with your spiral point positions on my laziest day, and I would not
    spend any time to argue with the output quality of the cubics.\r\n\r\nThe next
    thing I'd like to do is see how easy it is to pull contours apart and reconstitute
    them as new letters, new weights and new widths.Really well done and I look forward
    to any sort of progress this can make. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-10 12:34:41'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Hrant] <em>I certainly hope not.</em>\r\n\r\nIt stands to reason that where
    a curve-fitting routine finds inflection points might be diagnostic of contrast
    type. And it seems to me that one of the things we ought to want to get a handle
    on is the logic of contrast in a co-ordinated glyph set. (But this might be where
    points of view diverge: that following such a logic is contributory to readability.)
    \r\n\r\nMy visual argument suggested perhaps spiro has an advantage over beziers
    in providing this. But even in the bezier environment finding extermata can be
    revelatory of stress axis and diagnostic of it's consistency or pattern of departures."
  created: '2007-05-10 12:41:21'
- author:
    name: G T
    picture: 128201
  body: "@mark/Toby: cheers guys, found the folders, however still can't find the
    files. I've searched the whole of the computer for \"foo.ps\"using spotlight and
    can't find it so who knows, but it don't matter it was just a doodle to test,
    I'm just impatient to be able to utilize this new tool.\r\n\r\nThanks\r\n\r\nGraham"
  created: '2007-05-10 13:19:29'
- author:
    name: patternmaker
    picture: 109951
  body: "Graham\r\n\r\nSpotlight doesn't search invisibles. In the Finder, use Go
    to Folder (command-shift-G), type in \"/private/tmp/\", click the Go button and
    the window that opens should contain the foo.ps file."
  children:
  - author:
      name: G T
      picture: 128201
    body: "Ah, nice one patternmaker. Cheers.\r\n\r\nG"
    created: '2007-05-11 11:20:37'
  created: '2007-05-10 15:52:39'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"And it seems to me that one of the things we ought to want to get a handle
    on is the logic of contrast in a co-ordinated glyph set.\"\r\n\r\nPeter, I would
    say not. The \"logic\" of almost anything in type design tends to be very occasional,
    inconsistent, and useless if followed too completely. From serif length to contrast
    to bowl shape to stress angle, these things tend to look bad and function badly
    when systematized too completely. Greek and Arabic types especially would not
    take well to this logical approach or analysis. \r\n\r\n\"Users don\u2019t need
    your comfort, you need theirs.\"\r\n\r\nHrant, Terry said ink and brush. It doesn't
    sound like he's working on a dictionary typeface. "
  created: '2007-05-10 15:57:46'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Carl] \"[\u2026] useless if followed / systematized too completely.\"\r\n\r\nI
    agree, but a consistent contrast scheme will be in evidence I should think, and
    this has an overall impact on the root mathametical structure of the curves, which
    then becomes unique--in a deep-structure sense--to that typeface."
  created: '2007-05-10 17:35:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> where a curve-fitting routine finds inflection\r\n> points might be diagnostic
    of contrast type.\r\n\r\nI don't get how, but/so it sounds interesting.\r\n\r\n>
    one of the things we ought to want to get a handle on\r\n> is the logic of contrast
    in a co-ordinated glyph set.\r\n\r\nMy view is opposed even here, even before
    you get to the part about readability. To me we need all the help we can get to
    ween ourselves off of chirography, and a tool that's poorly coordinated with chirography
    is preferable to the opposite.\r\n\r\n> My visual argument suggested perhaps spiro
    has an advantage\r\n> over beziers in providing this. But even in the bezier environment\r\n>
    finding extermata can be revelatory of stress axis and diagnostic\r\n> of it\u2019s
    consistency or pattern of departures.\r\n\r\nI'm seeing the opposite, since spirals
    apparently have less of a dependency on extrema. There's also another potential
    way spirals might help us grow up: if for some reason it's harder to do an \"expand
    stroke\" on a spiral compared to a bezier, making \"skeleton-based\" type design
    becomes less attractive.\r\n\r\n> Terry said ink and brush. It doesn\u2019t sound\r\n>
    like he\u2019s working on a dictionary typeface.\r\n\r\nWhat I meant applies to
    any type, in fact to any act of Design.\r\nAs opposed to Art. Users don't care
    about Terry, and they shouldn't.\r\n\r\n> a consistent contrast scheme\r\n\r\nFormal
    consistency is often dysfunctional when it comes to what humans need.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-10 18:06:59'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Raph, I'm having a hard time mentally linking an outline description format
    and any particular set of shapes made with it. This idea seems very tenuous and
    hopeful. What do you think it will lead to that is of interest to type designers?
    I can imagine all kinds of outcomes of interest to mathematicians.....  \r\n\r\n\"Users
    don\u2019t care about Terry, and they shouldn\u2019t.\"\r\n\r\nThese two statements
    might also be a matter of opinion. We do tend to admire people who make things
    we love to see/use, and I suspect Terry is one of those. Ignoring esthetics is
    foolish. It's a meaningful ingredient of any design effort.\r\n\r\nHrant, I fully
    agree that chirography, or fashion, or convention, or any other isolated factor
    is unhealthy to fixate on. But condemning them as causal of some sort of degradation,
    disintegration or arrest of progress seems also nearsighted. I'm interested in
    a balance of ideal function and esthetic appeal (physically as well as visually),
    and in all areas of design.  It is amusing sometimes to see a chair that looks
    painful and dangerous, which turns out to be rapturous to sit in, but you then
    have to trick people to sit in it the first time. And I don't see these ingredients/concerns
    as so opposed as you seem to. Yes, of course it's misleading to fixate on chirography,
    or \"logic\" or rules or ink traps, to the detriment of everything else. But I
    don't think Terry is at that point. We all converge in the type world from very
    different paths. Bitmaps for example. Or math.\r\n\r\nCentral to this thread is
    how to get tools (like Raph's) into our hands so we can stop noticing or being
    influenced by them, which relates to Terry's comment. Raph might actually like
    to know how people prefer to work. Whatever method or technique people start out
    with, you have to agree it's the results that matter. \r\n\r\nNow I'm plagued
    by mental images of text type drawn with ink and brush.....  8D"
  created: '2007-05-10 18:55:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Ignoring esthetics is foolish.\r\n\r\nAgreed, especially since: it can
    be enjoyable; and there's no avoiding it anyway. But, as I've stated before, to
    me the difference between Art and Design (neither of which exists in a pure state)
    is the <cite>intent</cite> of the creator in terms of expression.\r\n\r\n> you
    then have to trick people to sit in it the first time.\r\n\r\nThis is the sort
    of thing I believe in too.\r\nHence Paphos (far right): http://www.themicrofoundry.com/s_latin.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-10 19:05:24'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Users don\u2019t care about Terry, and they shouldn\u2019t.</em>\r\n\r\nTalk
    about a massive overstatement! You've missed the point entirely. This isn't about
    any individual person. It's about making a useful tool for people to use. Nothing
    more. There's no such thing as a fool-proof, universally accepted method. In fact\u2014
    FontLab and Illustrator handle Beziers very differently and because of that \"users\"
    prefer different methods. Some type designers use Illustrator and import into
    FontLab\u2014some use FontLab only, and some still even use Fontographer. So your
    statement is a complete oversimplification. I often find the critical flaw in
    many of your opinions is that they're based too much on the idea of \"absolutism.\"
    Life is not all black and white.\r\n\r\nHrant, you're too smart of a guy to make
    outrageous statements like this. Your fixation on chirography is very apparent
    to most frequenters of Typophile I'm sure, so it's no surprise that you've twisted
    words to make your point. \r\n\r\nI find it amusing that this is the very thing
    I've seen you criticize William Berkson about time and time again\u2014 you're
    too literal. Try reading and understanding a person's intent before reacting.
    And if something is not stated clear enough for you...you can always ask a question.
    I would have been happy to explain myself more clearly. But I'm sure just reacting
    is a lot more fun.\r\n\r\nCarl: thanks for clarifying things. That is exactly
    what I meant."
  created: '2007-05-11 01:36:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm as gray as they come.\r\n\r\nIt's about balance. When I seem too radical
    it's because the situation is desperately lopsided, and the balance needs a firm
    kick to right itself. Gentle, gradual cajoling will not work, at least not in
    one person's lifetime, and I'm not going to get my offspring to pursue my own
    ideals - I have to do it myself. When a person is hysterically out of control,
    you deliver a well-meaning slap in the face. (I don't mean you, I mean the field
    of type design.)\r\n\r\nBut I really don't want to derail this thread, which is
    why I didn't reply much more fully to Carl's post. But you went a hair too far,
    so I felt compelled to write the above, sorry.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-11 02:21:57'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Hrant, I have never seen any more of Paphos than this j. Is there a secret
    link to more of it? it <strong>sounds</strong> good...   ;)\r\n\r\nOn topic: I
    imagine that I could get used to using this drawing method, and the possibility
    of ignoring the eventual pixel grid is attractive. David Berlow raises an interesting
    question: How easy to cut and paste, how easy to grab and stretch large segments,
    how easy to interpolate? All figure into my production flow. I also don't like
    the idea that the outlines I draw carefully must necessarily go through a conversion
    process unless I am very very confident of the conversion algorithm, and I'm really
    picky in that area. PS outline drawing has the advantage that the exact shapes
    I draw are what the user will receive and use."
  created: '2007-05-11 05:18:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The Paphos alphanumerics are all roughly drawn (on paper). But I've stopped
    working on it mostly because I'm intellectually not ready to finish it.\r\n\r\nHere's
    something of it I've shown on Typophile before:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Paphos_Q_4552.gif]\r\n\r\n>
    unless I am very very confident of the conversion algorithm\r\n\r\nDid you miss
    the French curve challenge on page 1 of this thread? It looks like the conversion
    algorithm (although apparently not too fast) produces very fine results, without
    causing an infestation of bezier nodes.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-11 05:37:17'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: I did see the conversion; I've actually seen/used better. That's why I say
    I'm picky. Also it's not enough for me to assess this low-res image onscreen.
    I do suspect, though, that the results are likely to be very very good. I just
    don't want to lose the newly-won ability to have designs reproduced exactly, without
    interpretation. The new tool should provide benefits that override that issue,
    or there should be a conversion method that obviates it.
  created: '2007-05-11 06:05:48'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: 'I''ve tried a bunch of linux distros, and there is some exciting stuff going
    on, but unfortunately x11 is pretty gross there too ;) Otherwise, I use a ton
    of free software, and love it (everyone should try Blender for 3d stuff). Someday
    I''ll be smart enough to contribute code to some of my favorites. In the mean
    time, I drew some <a href="http://betatype.com/node/5">cleaned up characters</a>
    for the Ubuntu title font, but I haven''t figured out how to submit it back to
    the project. '
  children:
  - author:
      name: abattis
      picture: 112245
    body: '@Christian: Wow! your Ubuntu title font is an excellent contribution! I
      hope this becomes the new upstream version as Andy Fitz suggested in the comments
      of your blog! :) '
    created: '2007-05-17 15:57:28'
  created: '2007-05-12 01:35:20'
- author:
    name: glyphobet
    picture: 112278
  body: "These curves are great to work with. I strongly encourage everyone who hasn't
    yet downloaded and tried Spiro to do so. Raph, when I first read about your idea
    to use Cornu spirals to lay out curves a few years back, I was skeptical, but
    Spiro lives up to your promises. It is easier, quicker, and feels more natural.\r\n\r\nHere's
    something I did in ten minutes. It's not production-ready or anything, but I've
    been working with Beziers for at least twelve years, and I don't think I could
    do something that looks this good in ten minutes in FontForge, Inkscape, or any
    other Bezier program. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spiro_4501.png]"
  created: '2007-05-12 09:19:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I just don\u2019t want to lose the newly-won ability to have designs reproduced
    exactly, without interpretation.\"\r\nSo, do you make one-size-fits-one fonts
    too!? That's so exciting!\r\n\r\n\"The new tool should provide benefits that override
    that issue, or there should be a conversion method that obviates it.\"\r\nThat
    is my basic point here. I want to make containers, not vontainers for containers,
    or like this containers for containers for continers, unless the content remains
    precise through the first two container transfers at least."
  created: '2007-05-12 11:58:36'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Raph, that tool is very exiting, I think it solves some major problems with
    Bezier curves. I have a few comments and questions:\r\n\r\n1. As far as I can
    see, Spiro is essentially a tool that takes on-curve points as input and outputs
    Bezier curves. Could you explain the benefit of using spirals as an intermediate
    step? Wouldn't it be possible to find Bezier splines that run through the given
    points with G2 continuity? Doesn't the problem of G2 continuity still remain when
    two spirals are connected?\r\n\r\n2. It seems that the main differences to direct
    Bezier editing are:\r\na. built-in G2 continuity, which is great but G2 continuity
    can also be enforced automatically for Bezier splines (as I have shown in Lisbon
    last year)\r\nb. no off-curve points, which is great\r\nc. no need to specify
    tangents for on-curve points, which is great\r\nd. no possibility to specify tangents
    for on-curve points, which is very odd\r\n\r\nI think for practical type design
    application it is very important to be able to specify tangents for your on-curve
    points, which Bezier splines allow but not Spiro. Would it be possible to add
    support for tangents? Then we would actually have the best of both worlds. Also,
    I think an option to specify tangents without the position of the on-curve points
    would be a very handy in everyday type design\r\n\r\n3. What about rounding errors?
    The restriction to 1000 units seems to be built into T1/CFF, isn't also the use
    of integer coordinates a requirement of Postscript fonts? Or is this just an FL-internal
    restriction? If not, looking at the (un-rounded) Postscript output is irrelevant
    - we need to see the final shape in fonts with coordinates rounded to integer
    numbers and 1000 UPM.\r\n\r\n4. You say that Multiple Master technology does not
    preserve G2 continuity. It is my experience, however (in hundreds of cases), that
    G2 continuity is in fact preserved when interpolating Bezier curves with MM. I
    don't know whether it could be proven that this is the case under certain conditions
    (or under which conditions, to be more exact).\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nTim"
  children:
  - author:
      name: sgh
      picture: 111405
    body: "@Tim: <cite>but G2 continuity can also be enforced automatically for Bezier
      splines (as I have shown in Lisbon last year)</cite>\r\n\r\nCould you please
      explain more about how to enforce G2 continuity for Bezier splines? (or provide
      a reference)  Thanks!\r\n"
    created: '2007-05-14 01:30:48'
  - author:
      name: raph
      picture: 109741
    body: "Tim: thanks for your kind words, and even better, your good questions.
      Some of these questions require fairly deep answers, to which I would refer
      you to my thesis (I'll put the draft-in-progress online in the next day or two).
      But I'll try to at least scratch the surface here.\r\n\r\n<em>Could you explain
      the benefit of using spirals as an intermediate step?</em>\r\n\r\nYes. G2 continuity
      is not the only smoothness property you care about, it's just really crisp and
      easy to measure. You also want to make sure that the curvature doesn't have
      any sharp peaks in it. But there is no agreement on what is <em>the</em> best
      way to quantify this. In my thesis, I refer to Potter Stewart's (meta)-definition
      of <a href=\"http://www.law.umkc.edu/faculty/projects/ftrials/bruce/bruceindecentspeech.htm\">obscenity</a>,
      and then go on to propose the L\u221E norm of the deviation of curvature as
      the most favored measure of curve smoothness. To all those naysayers out there
      who feel it should be the L2 norm, I say: fie unto you.\r\n\r\nIf all you cared
      about was G2 continuity, Beziers do OK. Manning showed a G2 continuous cubic
      spline in 1973 (it was used, apparently, for shoe insole shapes). However, for
      very large turning angles between the on-curve points, his spline sometimes
      did not converge to a unique solution. Hobby's 1985 splne (used in Metafont,
      and thus how I got hooked on this stuff) was influenced by Manning's, but traded
      off exact G2 continuity (it uses a good approximation of curvature instead)
      for bulletproof stability of the solutions.\r\n\r\nBut neither of these curves
      <em>look</em> pretty if you try to make, say, an S segment that turns 90 degrees
      one way and then the other - you get curvature peaks at about 15% and 85% of
      the arc length.\r\n\r\nSo spirals deal with both problems: you never get a curvature
      peak except at the control point. Also, (and I'm still nailing this down), you
      can get very good stability. The specific divergence of Manning's spline is
      definitely avoided, but I don't know for sure whether the Euler spiral spline
      <em>always</em> converges, or just almost always.\r\n\r\n<em>Wouldn\u2019t it
      be possible to find Bezier splines that run through the given points with G2
      continuity?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, Manning's is one such. But the results are quantifiably
      not as good. I'll have illustrations in my thesis, I promise.\r\n\r\n<em>Doesn\u2019t
      the problem of G2 continuity still remain when two spirals are connected?</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
      exactly what the goal of the spline solver is: find Euler spiral segments between
      all adjacent on-curve points so that curvature is continuous across them. Once
      you take that as the challenge, it's not <em>too</em> difficult to work out
      numerical techniques to take it on.\r\n\r\n<em>Would it be possible to add support
      for tangents?</em>\r\n\r\nYes. In fact, I originally planned to do exactly that,
      but generally found that I didn't need it for my own work. If other people find
      they need it, it's doable. Inside the solver, the constraints are written as
      a big matrix, with parameters corresponding to tangent angle, curvature, and
      so on. It's a matter of UI plumbing to let people write more kinds of constraints,
      including tangents. I was very concerned about UI complexity, though.\r\n\r\n<em>What
      about rounding errors? The restriction to 1000 units seems to be built into
      T1/CFF, isn\u2019t also the use of integer coordinates a requirement of Postscript
      fonts?</em>\r\n\r\nJohn spoke well to the 1000 unit issue. But the short answer
      is no, the div operator lets you do rational fractions, which means more or
      less unlimited accuracy. The only real downside is that the font file gets quite
      a bit bigger.\r\n\r\nThat said, I also expect good results with rounded coordinates,
      because it chooses the minimal number of Beziers, and therefore long segments.
      Rounding becomes more visually noticeable as Beziers get shorter. (This is deep
      water that I expect to cover more deeply in my \"converting to Beziers\" chapter
      - in order to make sense of it, you have to adopt a different error metric than
      \"max distance error\". I argue for L2 norm of angle error as an error metric
      that more accurately models the perception of curve smoothness)\r\n\r\n<em>It
      is my experience, however (in hundreds of cases), that G2 continuity is in fact
      preserved when interpolating Bezier curves with MM. I don\u2019t know whether
      it could be proven that this is the case under certain conditions (or under
      which conditions, to be more exact).</em>\r\n\r\nIn the <em>general</em> case,
      it doesn't even preserve G1. An example is given in Figure 2-8 of Adobe's <a
      href=\"http://partners.adobe.com/public/developer/en/font/5091.Design_MM_Fonts.pdf\">tech
      note 5091</a>. I can imagine that you learn quickly enough to stay away from
      those cases, but my point is that the onus is on the designer. With spirals,
      you do get the G2 continuity all the time, without having to worry about it.\r\n\r\nI
      would imagine that G1 continuity is always preserved when the angles of the
      control arms are consistent between the masters. This is, of course, always
      the case at extremal points, which is probably the main reason why they're such
      a big deal.\r\n\r\nIt's when you get into more subtle variations, the kind that
      just can't be done with a single long Bezier segment, that it's harder to control
      the smoothness.\r\n\r\nHere's another interpolation example I whipped out quickly:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/s_interp_6237.png]\r\n\r\nAs
      you can see, the curvatures of the fat S are quite different from those of the
      thin - the radius on the inside bowls is quite small. And all that was done
      with 17 on-curve and 4 corner points. I've also put up a <a href=\"http://levien.com/spiro/s_interp.pdf\">PDF</a>
      for people who want a closer look.\r\n"
    created: '2007-05-14 06:59:49'
  created: '2007-05-14 01:02:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Tim: <em>The restriction to 1000 units seems to be built into T1/CFF</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    is very strongly recommended for Type 1 fonts, i.e. things are expected to break
    if you use a UPM other than 1000. But it is not a requirement for CFF fonts. I've
    made CFF fonts with UPMs of 2048 and 4096, and they work fine. There were largely
    aesthetic problems in pre-CS2 versions of Adobe apps, which presumed a UPM of
    1000 for calculating caret height, but that's fixed now and I have not seen other
    problems with using UPMs other than 1000.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-14 02:22:18'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Wow, I didn't know your whole thesis is on this subject. I'm very curious
    to see it. Thank you very much for your detailed answers.\r\n\r\nAs for the PDF,
    it would be interesting to see the Spiro based interpolation next to an MM generated
    version. Do they differ much? If you want you can send me a font file and I can
    do that interpolation based on Bezier curves (with some preparatory MM optimimations).
    It looks like your interpolation also can't avoid the problem that in the interpolations
    the stroke at the center of the s is too thin (being inherited from the extra
    bold, where it is necessary). I assume this problem can't be solved on a contour
    basis.\r\n\r\nFinally, I have to admit that I do not find the curve of the s in
    your PDF harmonic at all, especially the three lightest versions. Maybe it is
    just my subjective perception. To me the disharmonic shape becomes apparent only
    in the lowest line, where it is filled in. Maybe the initial reactions here in
    this thread would not have been that enthusiastic if people had seen their shapes
    filled in? Sorry, no offence, your stuff is great."
  created: '2007-05-14 10:10:56'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "sgh:<cite>Could you please explain more about how to enforce G2 continuity
    for Bezier splines?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt basically works like that: \r\n\r\nNodes
    that connect two Bezier curve elements are shifted towards the wider curve until
    the curvature on both sides of the node is equal. During this, the BCPs of both
    cureves are adjusted so that the shape stays as close as possible to the original:
    for non-s-shaped curves the BCPs are adjusted so that the area within the curve
    stays the same (taking into account that thin triangle created by the shifting
    of the node). For s-shaped curves, the BCPs are adjusted so that the curve stays
    as close as possible to the original, meaning the curve is split in two and both
    areas within the \"half curves\" stay the same as before.\r\n\r\nAlternatively,
    nodes that are not extrema can be rotated (towards the narrower side) until the
    curvature is equal on both sides. BCPs are adjusted as above. I feel this gives
    better results thatn shifting but it is obviously not possible for extremes.\r\n\r\nIn
    addition, I am experimenting with G3 continuity, which obviously means that nodes
    are shifted perpendicular to their tangent until G3 continuity is given.\r\n\r\nNote
    that this is a system that <cite>processes existing shapes</cite> - it does not
    <cite>generate</cite> shapes. I think this approach is much more appropriate to
    the typical design process."
  children:
  - author:
      name: sgh
      picture: 111405
    body: "Tim,\r\n\r\nThanks for the description.  I've seen the simpler technique
      of shifting the on-curve node between the fixed off-curve control points mentioned
      before.  In the construction of <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/31970\">Aurulent
      Sans</a> I actually have macros that automatically adjust curve nodes in this
      way to achieve continuous curvature (this is done after the basic shapes are
      constructed as a finishing touch).  MetaPost's Hobby splines are sometimes discontinuous
      in curvature when I specify more about the curve (such as tangents, etc).  I'll
      think about rotating points non-extreme curve nodes.  Is solving for the rotation
      to achieve continuous rotation numerically stable?\r\n\r\n<cite>In addition,
      I am experimenting with G3 continuity, which obviously means that nodes are
      shifted perpendicular to their tangent until G3 continuity is given.</cite>\r\n\r\nAssuming
      that \"G3 continuity\" means continuity of the derivative of the curvature,
      can this in general be obtained with cubic Bezier curves?\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-05-14 16:26:58'
  created: '2007-05-14 14:50:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I feel this gives better results than shifting\r\n\r\nLike everybody now,
    I guess, I do this 'taking out the bumps' stuff by eye, rather than algorithm.
    \r\n\r\nI have usually found it easier to slide nodes (using the shift key in
    FontLab) than to change the angle of smoothly connected bezier handles. Changing
    the angles of handles seems to mess up the 'other' curve--the one you don't want
    to change--more than sliding the node. \r\n\r\nIf you are free to move around
    the angle and length of one handle, because there is a sharp connection, and the
    other node is at an extremum. then it is easier. But then curve continuity across
    the node is also not an issue. \r\n\r\nAlso, to sound a different note here, I
    think the issues of proportion, weight, contrast, and connections of all the parts
    of glyphs are more important to text faces than the exact curves, which are not
    so visible at text sizes. Though sweet curves are an important part of the story,
    they aren't the biggest part of the story. "
  created: '2007-05-14 16:54:23'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "@Tim Ahrens: <em>Finally, I have to admit that I do not find the curve of
    the s in your PDF harmonic at all, especially the three lightest versions.</em>\r\n\r\nYou're
    right, it kinda sucked. I was trying to do it with too few points, and too quickly.
    I spent a little more time on the example, doing a couple of printed rounds instead
    of entirely on screen, and I'm sure you'll agree that the results are more satisfactory.
    Sweet curves are, as William points out, no substitute for a careful eye and a
    willingness to refine the outlines until they're just right. But I do think sweet
    curves can help that process, and certainly make it more enjoyable.\r\n\r\nThe
    new PDF is <a href=\"http://levien.com/spiro/s_interp2.pdf\">here</a>, and this
    time I've included the filled versions in the image:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/s_interp2_4551.png]\r\n\r\n@sgh:
    <em>Assuming that \u201CG3 continuity\u201D means continuity of the derivative
    of the curvature, can this in general be obtained with cubic Bezier curves?</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    can bring the error (discontinuity) down as far as you like, by using more curves.
    The default in Spiro is actually G4 continuity, but I'm switching to G2 as the
    default because it's easier to control, and the extra continuity isn't really
    visible except under extreme scrutiny.\r\n\r\n<em>MetaPost\u2019s Hobby splines
    are sometimes discontinuous in curvature when I specify more about the curve (such
    as tangents, etc).</em>\r\n\r\nWell, they're always discontinuous in curvature,
    just not by much. But yes, when using a two-parameter spline (such as Hobby's
    cubic primitive or an Euler spiral), specifying the tangent makes the curvature
    quite discontinuous.\r\n\r\nIt would be interesting to experiment with G2 continuity
    with tangent constraints using a four-parameter spline. My guess is that it's
    possible, but it might not be easy to control, i.e. if the tangent is significantly
    different than the one that would be assigned automatically, it might cause ripples
    in neighboring segments. But it's hard to know for sure until it's implemented.
    I'm not sure if I'll have the chance to do that any time soon. Time to grow new
    rocket scientists!\r\n\r\nIntegrating Spiro splines into MetaPost would make a
    huge amount of sense. The integration would have to be relicensed under the GPL,
    and of course somebody needs to do the work. But I think it would be excellent
    closure, because the Hobby splines are what started me down this path in the first
    place.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-14 22:15:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Try a narrower \"S\" (otherwise you'll have to make the diagonal flatter).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-14 22:27:03'
- author:
    name: sgh
    picture: 111405
  body: "Raph, how do you load a background image in ppedit?  When ppedit is compiled
    using x3, it seems that it does not load /tmp/foo.ppm.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-16 05:23:38'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "This is very interesting! I was always looking for a good way to have description
    of outlines without off-curve points and Sketch mode in FLS is an example of this
    approach. In that case we decided to make curve math compatible with Ikarus outlines
    (while based on different math) and that was not a best approach. Other methods
    that we were checking provided much smoother results but were not point-compatible
    with .ik files.\r\n\r\nWhat about Peter Karow's approach to construction of outlines
    using spirals? Is rougly the same idea? (It is on page 86 in English edition of
    his book.)\r\n\r\nFew words about our future approach to different editing methods:
    the biggest problem of current Fontlab tools is that all of them mix production
    with design. We plan to separate it and offer plugin architecture for editing
    content of glyphs. \r\n\r\nThere will be only two minimal requirements: plugin
    must resterize (with smoothing of edges) and provide at least a conversion to
    and from Bezier outline. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: raph
      picture: 109741
    body: "@yuri: <em>What about Peter Karow\u2019s approach to construction of outlines
      using spirals? Is rougly the same idea? (It is on page 86 in English edition
      of his book.)</em>\r\n\r\nOnly roughly. The spiral shown on page 87 isn't Karow's,
      it's from the Purdy-McIntosh system (I have a bunch of references if anybody's
      that interested). Basically, the results are good, but the way they have it
      set up it's very hard to edit: the user has to put in all the spiral parameters
      explicitly. In my approach, the computer solves a global system determining
      the spiral parameters, based on curvature continuity constraints at the on-curve
      points. Completely original to my approach is the \"one-way\" constraint, which
      gives you continuous curvature at straight-curve joins (and is more general
      - the \"straight\" section can have a slight bend to it, and it solves that
      too).\r\n\r\n<em>We plan to separate it and offer plugin architecture for editing
      content of glyphs.\r\nThere will be only two minimal requirements: plugin must
      resterize (with smoothing of edges) and provide at least a conversion to and
      from Bezier outline.\r\n</em>\r\n\r\nA plugin is an entirely satisfactory approach
      all around. But let me understand more fully, by asking some questions:\r\n\r\n*
      Will it be possible to write interactive editing plugins in Python and have
      them work cross-platform?\r\n\r\n* To do the rasterizing, as you say, can my
      plugin generate a (crude) Bezier and hand it off to a FontLab-supplied API for
      the rest?\r\n\r\n* I assume that the plug-in also gets some kind of API for
      marshalling and unmarshalling the plugin-specific format into the FontLab database
      file. Is this correct? For what I need, JSON would be ideal, but other choices
      would also work.\r\n\r\nI agree that combining \"design\" and \"production\"
      has serious disadvantages. I have come to believe that the best approach is
      to generate high-fidelity \"masters\" using a design tool, ideally with parameterization,
      and then have a batch-mode converter to freeze those parameters, quantize to
      a specific Bezier grid (either cubic or quadratic, although at this point I
      only have optimized conversion to cubics done), and generate the font file.\r\n\r\nI
      also agree that it's possible to do quite a bit better than the .ik file format.
      It was pretty good for its time, but there's lots that I know now that just
      doesn't fit into the .ik approach. (Incidentally, the Ikarus spline is one I
      look at carefully in my chapter comparing two-parameter splines, along with
      the Hobby (Metafont) spline, Minimum Energy Curves, and, of course, Euler spirals).\r\n\r\nI
      haven't actually played with the Python capabilities in FL5 to see what's possible,
      only looked at the documentation. It might be possible to do a useful prototype.\r\n\r\n@sgh:
      no, the 0.01 x3 build doesn't load a background image at all. Sorry. It's obviously
      not <em>that</em> difficult a feature to add, because I do have it in the gtk1
      version, but I just haven't gotten around to it, and I'm not sure when I will
      have time to do so. I was kinda hoping others would pitch in on the coding,
      but that hasn't happened (yet) either.\r\n\r\n@hrant: <em>narrower \"S\".</em>
      I know. But at some point we cross the line from \"what the tool can do\" to
      \"how good is Raph at font design.\" I'm middling-good and hope to get better,
      but that's kind of off the main topic of this thread.\r\n\r\nUltimately, I think
      it will take a number of people spending time with the tool and learning how
      to get good results before we can definitely answer the former question. People
      spend months, if not years, learning how to draw top-notch Beziers. I strongly
      suspect that the learning curve is easier for spirals. The big unanswered question
      is whether the results are better once you've climbed it."
    created: '2007-05-16 21:42:17'
  created: '2007-05-16 16:44:05'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: 'Yuri, a plugin architecture allowing for different curves in fontlab sounds
    fantastic. I would love to explore a nurbs based drawing environment, for example.
    It would solve the licensing issues for this technology too :) '
  created: '2007-05-16 17:45:21'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "<cite>Yuri, a plugin architecture allowing for different curves in fontlab
    sounds fantastic. I would love to explore a nurbs based drawing environment, for
    example. It would solve the licensing issues for this technology too :)</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's
    why we plan to implement it. \r\n\r\nThere are many possible ways to draw outline.
    I personally experimented with several types of splines, some \"centerline\" methods,
    Ikarus curves etc. Even in FLS you may find 5 different ways to build outline:
    2 types of curved in \"main\" mode, Sketch mode (some type of spline, point-compatible
    with Ikarus outline), Primitives (which is \"object\" UI) and some strange method
    to use components as \"blocks\" to build outline with autojoin function (not really
    useful and never documented). \r\n\r\nOnly \"main\" mode actually survived and
    is used to draw, all others are more or less \"experimental\".\r\n\r\nOh, there
    are few more: in standard FLS distributive you may find 3 \"Python tools\" which
    are good examples of how this spiral-based technology may be integrated even into
    FLS5. \r\n\r\nTwo tools are Line and Curve (latter shows some rudimentary auto-curvature
    control) and third is called Drops. It creates random-size circles if no tablet
    is connected. With pressure-sensitive tablet size of the circles depend on pressure.\r\n\r\nActually
    it is very interesting challenge to integrate spiral-based editing tools into
    FLS using Python tool gateway :-)"
  created: '2007-05-16 19:03:34'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "<cite>Few words about our future approach to different editing methods: the
    biggest problem of current Fontlab tools is that all of them mix production with
    design. We plan to separate it and offer plugin architecture for editing content
    of glyphs.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes thats exactly the 'problem' with Fontlab. It's not
    really a designers tool as it is. An open modular approach sounds great."
  created: '2007-05-16 19:15:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yuri, great of you to show up!\r\n\r\n> at some point we cross the line from
    \u201Cwhat the\r\n> tool can do\u201D to \u201Chow good is Raph at font design.\u201D\r\n\r\nYes,
    but if you remove the latter (never fully, but much more\r\nthan with that \"S\")
    you'll have a better view of the latter.\r\n\r\nSo my advice was practical: make
    the \"S\" narrower, and people\r\nwill generally get a better idea of how good
    the spirals are.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-16 22:07:51'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "<cite>* Will it be possible to write interactive editing plugins in Python
    and have them work cross-platform?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt is possible even now. Spiro
    data may be stored in glyph dictionary (Python-accessible storage for arbitrary
    data). Python tool API allows to redefine mouse events and window paint function,
    but that is currently very limited.\r\n\r\nIn future implemenation plugin API
    (both for Python and for general coding) will be greatly extended.\r\n\r\n<cite>\r\n*
    To do the rasterizing, as you say, can my plugin generate a (crude) Bezier and
    hand it off to a FontLab-supplied API for the rest?</cite>\r\n\r\nBy rasterization
    I mean conversion to 8-bit grayscale bitmap. While conversion to Bezier is OK,
    it will be much faster if Spiro outline is converted to supersampled vector-only
    outline. Then it can be passed to system or Freetype rasterizer to get bitmap.
    \r\n\r\nWhat I mean is that in furure plugin architecture we will define minumal
    set of plugin functions that are required for it to be included into FLS as \"layer
    editor\". That will include on-screen outline rendering, conversion to Bezier
    outline, rasterization to grayscale bitmap, serialization (it should store data
    in its own format <strong>and</strong> Bezier format for compatibility reasons)
    and UI integration. This plugin architecture is currently in early stage of development,
    so many more details will emerge as we move forward.\r\n\r\n<cite>* I assume that
    the plug-in also gets some kind of API for marshalling and unmarshalling the plugin-specific
    format into the FontLab database file. Is this correct? For what I need, JSON
    would be ideal, but other choices would also work.</cite>\r\n\r\nFuture database
    format will be very different to what we have now. It will allow to store glyph
    layers in any format that is required by any of plugins.\r\n\r\n.ik format: I
    think that computer power available at the time was an issue when Ikarus was developed.
    It is actually based on very simple math, which has many limitations. That is
    the reason why in sketch mode of FLS we are using some approximation of Ikarus
    curves with splines. That gives much more flexibility to outline (it can be solved
    with any position of points) while keeps it very close to .ik shape.  "
  created: '2007-05-16 22:27:33'
- author:
    name: lunyboy
    picture: 110638
  body: "I am not a type designer, however, I hand draw and build alot of identity
    pieces by hand and would love to have a PC version of this to try out. *hint hint*\r\n\r\nI
    do have a stack of type ideas that might get due consideration if this is as intuitive
    as it sounds."
  created: '2007-06-08 18:15:09'
- author:
    name: yader
    picture: 110383
  body: "I'v tried to use the app on a mac os x 10.4. It is a great tool and I would
    very highly appreciate it, if you would work further on this application. Especially
    for the mac. It makes the best curves on earth!\r\n\r\nrecommendations:\r\n- better
    UI (for example a toolset beneath the drawing window)\r\n- export function in
    different formats (.ai, .eps, jpg)\r\n- lineals would be also great\r\n- a info
    window to see exactly where the points are lying\r\n- function to underly a scanned
    image\r\n\r\nonce again thank you very much for this little app. I think it will
    have a great future.\r\n\r\nCheers\r\nDerya\r\n\r\np.s. maybe you could make it
    work as a plugin for illustrator? I would be more than willing to pay for it.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-20 19:45:35'
- author:
    name: Daniel Denk
    picture: 112599
  body: "Wow, this is an impressive curve technology tool. Is there any chance that
    a ported Windows build is available?\r\n\r\nIf not, how far along is the port
    -- I might be able to get some interest in development on the project. The developers
    I know though would probably want to port everything C++ with the QT GUI framework,
    to make it fully cross-platform.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-20 21:12:48'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: Does anyone know how to pan or zoom in Spiro? I managed to open some of the
    sample files in the Mac version but I cannot see the whole glyph shape. Thanks!
  created: '2007-09-09 19:35:14'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "@lunyboy & @derya: A windows version is very unlikely; grab a GNU/Linux Live
    CD and test it out that way :-) \r\n\r\n@Daniel: If your developer friends are
    interested, please mail me (dave@lab6.com) as there are some other QT people I
    know interested in writing a new type design tool.\r\n\r\n@Tim: You need to buy
    a bigger screen. "
  created: '2007-10-01 12:43:26'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "George Williams has extended [[http://fontforge.sf.net/|FontForge]] to support
    Raph Levien\u2019s Spiro curves. I started a thread [[http://typophile.com/node/38483|here
    on Typophile]] to discuss that, but it hasn't drawn much attention yet. Anybody
    have any thoughts to share?"
  created: '2007-10-30 00:10:01'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Hi! Just wanted to bump this up. I've been using Spiro drawing in FontForge
    for months now and it has proven an invaluable addition to the tool set. While
    there are some shortcomings under predictable conditions, I wouldn't think of
    going back to drawing letterforms with Beziers alone.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-25 20:58:44'
- author:
    name: prokoudine
  body: "Bumping up this thread again :)\r\n\r\nDevelopement version of Inkscape supports
    Spiro as well now. It's implemented as a live path effect (that is, there is always
    a final bezier path in an SVG file) and can be applied to any bezier path or be
    drawn with a pen or pencil tool. It will be available in final Inkscape 0.47 release
    (due this autumn probably).\r\n\r\nHere is an illustration by Andy Fitzsimon:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/andyfitz/2566789269/"
  created: '2008-06-27 17:49:34'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Thanks for the tip, Alexandre. Hopefully that new version of Inkscape will
    work on my Mac, since the last one I tried won't launch. Probably something messed
    up in my system.
  created: '2008-06-27 23:23:23'
- author:
    name: prokoudine
  body: '@cuttlefish: https://bugs.launchpad.net/inkscape/+bug/226355/comments/5'
  created: '2008-07-02 16:13:53'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Thanks, prokoudine, but that tip refers to Mac OSX 10.5 and up, while I'm
    running 10.4.11 (the old girl can't take more than that.)
  created: '2008-07-03 05:01:35'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: 'Sorry about the threadjack, folks. Back on topic: Spiro sure is awesome,
    isn''t it? Thanks Raph!'
  created: '2008-07-03 20:24:11'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: <a href="http://typophile.com/node/48924">a new spiro thread</a> :-)
  created: '2008-08-30 22:22:30'
- author:
    name: exfish
    picture: 114724
  body: I downloaded the Carbon ppedit app, but nothing seems to happen when I click
    anywhere on the screen. I tried opening a plate file from the command line and
    while the terminal window looked like it was logging my mouse actions, nothing
    was showing up in the drawing area. Am I being a total idiot and missing something
    obvious, or is there some bug in the app? I'm running Leopard on an intel Mac.
  created: '2008-08-31 18:21:40'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "I haven't tested on Leopard - it's entirely possible that there is a bug.
    Unfortunately, I have very limited time to work on this now (I'm really trying
    to concentrate on finishing my PhD), so it'll have to wait a while unless somebody
    else wants to play with it.\r\n\r\nIn the meantime, you might want to try out
    an Inkscape dev build - that has Spiro integrated and is definitely more polished
    than the ppedit test app."
  created: '2008-08-31 21:17:56'
- author:
    name: exfish
    picture: 114724
  body: "I can't seem to get Spiro working with FontForge, either*...but is does work
    with Inkscape! I gotta say, this is seriously sweet. I'm doing my MFA thesis on
    type design for e-paper, and this is going to help a lot. Kudos!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n*installed
    libspiro and everything, latest FontForge release, says it's not linked to Spiro.
    Whatever...using X11 apps with multiple windows in Mac OSX is a royal headache
    anyway. "
  created: '2008-09-10 15:40:02'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: '@ exfish: I had that problem with an earlier release, but it was cured on
    the next month''s build. Make a note of the issue (specifying your system specs
    and OS version along with the FF build version) on the fontforge-devel mailing
    list and George will fix it, or at least tell you what to do.'
  created: '2008-09-10 19:47:03'
- author:
    name: vhof
    picture: 116861
  body: "Hello Raph,\r\nI'm little bit confused by FontForge's tutorial on Spiro's
    http://fontforge.sourceforge.net/editspiro.html.\r\nI also compiled the ppedit.
    But there's no tutorials/docs. \r\nIs the only way for me to understand these
    6 operations is actually to read the code?\r\nThanks."
  created: '2009-02-14 17:14:04'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I've been using a somewhat different technique than what is described in
    the [[http://fontforge.sourceforge.net/editspiro.html|Fontforge/Spiro tutorial]].
    It involves a lot of switching back and forth between Spiro and Bezier drawing
    modes. The knife tool behaves unpredictably and the alignment tools are disabled
    in Spiro mode. Since I build letters with a lot of cut-and-paste, that sort of
    behavior is a hindrance.\r\n\r\n I suppose I should write my own tutorial once
    I figure out exactly what I'm doing."
  created: '2009-02-14 18:12:05'
- author:
    name: blackdrav
  body: "Sorry to bump this old thread, but is there something new happening with
    Spiro? Has development stopped? It looked promising\u2026"
  created: '2010-07-13 18:44:49'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: Stay tuned...
  created: '2010-07-14 14:33:07'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "Raph, it's very wonderful and thank you a lot for sharing this Spiro to us!
    I use FontForge e Inkscape.\r\n\r\nBut, Raph, I still have a doubt, is Spiro compatible
    with Inkscape 0.48 from Windows 7 and Ubuntu 10.10? If so, how do I put Spiro
    to Inkscape and FontForge?\r\n\r\nSo you didn't teach how to download and put
    this pack to these programs. \r\n\r\nThank you!\r\n\r\nKevin"
  created: '2010-10-16 19:37:27'
- author:
    name: dimitre
    picture: 109691
  body: "Raph thanks for the wonderful Spiro curves, I'm using a lot lately.\r\n\r\nThere
    is one simple curve I can't represent very well using Spiros in Fontforge\r\nI've
    tried using fontforge.spiroLeft and fontforge.spiroRight to enter and exit curve
    but it doesnt seem to draw a perfect circle. It seems more like logarithmic curve.\r\n\r\nIs
    there a way of drawing this curve using Spiros? Thanks\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spirox_5113.png]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: raph
      picture: 109741
    body: "@dimitre: No, there's no easy way to do this in Spiro. The underlying math
      can do it, no problem, but I deliberately simplified the UI so there wouldn't
      be huge numbers of point types representing the different constraints. Christoph
      Knoth at ATypI suggested adding one more point type, which would be an extremum
      point - it would function similar to the curve point, but force the tangent
      to be a multiple of 90 degrees.\r\n\r\nOne way you _can_ do it is to set points
      1 and 2 to be corner points, and put an additional point on the arc, but that
      doesn't guarantee continuity.\r\n\r\n@Hrant Spiro can represent exact circles.
      Beziers can't, so in the conversion to Bezier you get an approximation, but
      of course it can be a highly precise approximation."
    created: '2011-11-30 17:00:00'
  created: '2011-11-21 12:05:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm not a spiro expert by any means, but:\r\n- Try putting an extra point
    in the middle.\r\n- There's no such thing as a perfect circle, except the\r\nactual
    circle equation; any other form of equation is\r\nnecessarily an approximation.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-21 17:11:33'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "<em>Stay tuned...</em>\r\n\r\nFor a Windows version :)"
  created: '2011-11-22 21:14:27'
- author:
    name: dimitre
    picture: 109691
  body: "Hi @raph Thanks for the detailed answer.\r\nLet me ask you something, Did
    you build the Nodebox Cornu extension or were the Nodebox guys? It would be amazing
    to be able to use different kinds of Spiro points there. \r\nI want to make an
    ppedit alike editor with a tight grid. \r\n\r\nAbout ppedit, after saving I can't
    find the plate file in OS X 10.7\r\nCheers,\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-30 18:46:32'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "This is all very interesting, but not very new.\r\n\r\nURW Ikarus, developed
    by Peter Karow, in 1973-74, used Hermite splines having the important property
    that all the control points lie on the outline itself.\r\n\r\nYou had a few more
    points on curve but the control was great.\r\n\r\nBut, today, designers prefer
    and have accepted the off-curve Bezier handles.\r\n\r\nHowever, Ikarus plug-ins
    where very powerful.\r\n\r\nFor example, you could change \"one\" serif and have
    the program replace all the serifs throughout automatically.\r\n\r\nAnother plug-in
    would slant or \"italicize\" the glyphs and optically adjust the distortions based
    on the amount of angle, and so forth.\r\n\r\nVery powerful plug-ins that made
    the type designers job simpler, saved time. But, in the end, the type designer
    had to fine-tune everything by eye.\r\n\r\nAutomation can only go so far.\r\n\r\nIt
    seems that everyone is looking for the \"magic\" tool. How can I draw an \"S\"
    really fast without too much difficulty.\r\n\r\nHow can I get the tool to create
    a font for me relatively quickly, so I can make and market more fonts quicker.\r\n\r\nI'm
    sorry, but there are no shortcuts to good typography or good type design.\r\n\r\nI'm
    sure the tools will continue to make improvements with time. That is the nature
    of technology.\r\n\r\nBut the ultimate tool is ones own knowledge, talent and
    craftsmanship that one brings to the table.\r\n\r\nEverything else is just a tool
    to help us explore the possibilities. Just a tool."
  created: '2011-12-01 03:06:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you could change \"one\" serif and have the program\r\n> replace all the
    serifs throughout automatically.\r\n\r\nLetraset FontStudio did this too, with
    Beziers.\r\n\r\n> there are no shortcuts to good typography or good type design.\r\n\r\nYes
    there are. You just have to invent them and/or [know how to] use them.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-01 04:03:10'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I'm sorry, but there are no shortcuts to good typography or good type
    design.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou must be one of those people who can\u2019t figure out
    how to install Robofab."
  created: '2011-12-01 04:27:06'
- author:
    name: sgh
    picture: 111405
  body: "@raph: <cite>Christoph Knoth at ATypI suggested adding one more point type,
    which would be an extremum point - it would function similar to the curve point,
    but force the tangent to be a multiple of 90 degrees.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis would
    be fantastic!  One of the difficulties I've had in using Spiro for type design
    is the lack of control over extrema.  This is particularly troublesome when converting
    an existing design into outlines or trying to match specified metrics.\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-01 11:51:20'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: '@dimitre its in /tmp'
  created: '2011-12-05 22:54:14'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I deliberately simplified the UI so there wouldn't be huge numbers of point
    types representing the different constraints\"\r\n\r\nHow huge is that number
    of point types anyway?"
  created: '2011-12-06 03:38:35'
- author:
    name: sgh
    picture: 111405
  body: "dberlow: <cite>How huge is that number of point types anyway?</cite>\r\n\r\nThere
    are essentially 4 types of Spiro points:\r\n<ol>\r\n<li>corner points -- where
    the slopes and curvatures of the incoming and outgoing splines are unconstrained\r\n<li>G4
    curve points -- continuous up to the fourth derivative\r\n<li>G2 curve points
    -- continuous up to the second derivative\r\n<li>constraint points -- used to
    connect a curved line to a straight one\r\n</ol>\r\n\r\nMore information can be
    found at [[http://libspiro.sourceforge.net/|libspiro]], the [[http://fontforge.sourceforge.net/editspiro.html|Fontforge
    documentation]], or Raph's [[http://www.levien.com/phd/phd.html|thesis]] (see
    in particular page 121 {137 in pdf numbering}).\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-06 04:39:50'
- author:
    name: sgh
    picture: 111405
  body: "Raph,\r\n\r\nI've been re-reading your thesis (wonderful, by the way!) to
    see how an extremum point would work.  Following the table on page 121, I think
    the following might work for a point of fixed tangency:\r\n\r\n\\theta_l=\\theta_r=fixed
    constant\r\n\\kappa_l=\\kappa_r\r\n\\kappa'_l=\\kappa'_r\r\n\r\nThese four conditions
    balance the four degrees of freedom a general Spiro segment has.  Do these seem
    like the right conditions?  I think it should be pretty straightforward to extend
    your solver to include this type of point.\r\n\r\nBest wishes,\r\nStephen\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-13 05:25:59'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I discovered this thread when seeking information about one of the earliest
    computer-based type design tools.\r\n\r\nIt was mentioned in a standard type design
    textbook, so I'm sure many here have seen it. A single Archimedian spiral was
    seen as sufficiently general that it was the only tool the system offered, playing
    the same role as Bezier curves in today's digital type formats."
  created: '2012-10-19 14:53:25'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Quadibloc, according to yester lore, the AM Varityper worked with this spiral
    thingy -- their salesman told me this so it must be true ;-)\r\nIf I had salvaged
    one of its 8\" font disks I would have tried to see what sort of format its fonts
    were stored in. Oh, and if I could attach an 8\" disk drive to my system, of course.\r\n\r\nIt
    Was 1989 (\"my thoughts were short, my hair was long\") and the bosses' son returned
    from the US of A with two \"laser printers\", one from HP and the other one from
    a small but determined firm called \"Apple\", sporting an actual <em>programming</em>
    language (\"PostScript\", I recall). Soon after that, we abandoned AM -- just
    like pretty much the rest of the typesetting world."
  created: '2012-10-19 15:14:13'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I see that I missed a mention in this thread of the Purdy-McIntosh system;
    that might be what I was thinking of.
  created: '2012-10-19 19:24:40'
date: '2007-05-05 09:19:18'
node_type: forum
title: Spiro 0.01 release

---
