---
author:
  name: Typical
  picture: 112513
body: "This isn't my own font, so I didn't submit it to the critique section. \r\n\r\nI
  have found Linux Libertine and been running it through some laser prints. I'm thinking
  in terms of a font for long academic texts (humanities). I would also pay for a
  font, but there is something modern yet Caslonesque about this font that I like.
  At the same time, there is a lightness that I'm worried won't hold up. \r\n\r\nJust
  curious, what is your reaction to the font? \r\n\r\nEric"
comments:
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I find it exceedingly boring, except for the mistakes. The mistakes are not
    interesting; they are more of the \"ouch\" variety.  Now \"boring\" can be taken
    as an emotional response; all I can add is that there is a difference between
    \"boring\" and \"unobtrusive.\" Unobtrusive is good for long academics texts,
    boring is not.\r\n\r\nAs to the weight (lightness) -- it is hard to tell on the
    screen, at the size shown. Here is a trick: Gentium is also a free font, and because
    of the extended character set, quite useful for texts where only the word processor
    is used (laser printout). In my experience, Gentium prints well enough on a laser
    printer, but is too thin to print well on an offset press, where the plates are
    made from the computer files (direct to plate offset printing). If that is your
    intended use, download Gentium & compare it. If they have generally the same weight,
    it is too light for offset. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: sgh
      picture: 111405
    body: "@charles_e: <em>I find it exceedingly boring, except for the mistakes.
      The mistakes are not interesting; they are more of the \u201Couch\u201D variety.</em>\r\n\r\nCould
      you elaborate more on the mistakes that you see?  Also, have you looked at the
      PDF sample on LinLibertine's webpage?\r\n<a href=\"http://linuxlibertine.sourceforge.net/\">http://linuxlibertine.sourceforge.net/</a>\r\nThat
      will give you a better sense than the gif posted above.  I'm not sure how tuned
      LinLibertine's hinting is.\r\n"
    created: '2007-05-05 19:35:38'
  - author:
      name: mack12
    body: now nice post
    created: '2007-05-28 13:40:35'
  created: '2007-05-05 13:13:20'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: I think it is OK. Which is as much as you can hope for with free fonts, with
    certain exceptions. There is something about the kerning in "poetry" that looks
    a little off visually, don't you think? (the first half appears to have more space).
  created: '2007-05-05 15:28:45'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: Try Georgia instead (comes with Mac and Windows). Gentium is also very good.
  created: '2007-05-05 16:53:09'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "The f, a, y, and z all seem to me to have problems, from the screen sample.
    At your request, I did go to the website, but the downloaded PDF shows only boxes,
    not characters here at home, on my wife's Mac. I'll have to wait until I get into
    the office to see what's what.\r\n\r\nBut based on the small sample above, the
    bowl of the \"a\" doesn't fit other letters, the top & terminal of the \"f\" doesn't
    know where it is going, the descender of the \"y\" doesn't balance quite right,
    and the serif on the upper arm of the \"z\" (which probably reminded the original
    poster of Caslon) seems out of place. I get the impression, again from the small
    sample, that the font doesn't quite know whether it is suppose to be slightly
    condensed or slightly expanded.\r\n\r\nI fully grant that the sample is small,
    & if I saw the full character set it might seem to have better balance. My guess
    is no, but I guess wrong every day.\r\n\r\nFWIW\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-05 20:49:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If you want a good free font that looks like Times, Storm has Lido.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-05 21:52:53'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "I downloaded the LaTeX support package and gave Libertine a try with a long
    paper. Great effort on the part of the developers, but I was disappointed to say
    the least. Pale, loose, and not very interesting.\r\n\r\nI would stick to Charter
    or Storm Lido, but Minion is probably best because it comes with true small caps
    and all variations of numerals including footnote figures.\r\n\r\nThere is also
    GFSDidot, which I haven't tried yet."
  created: '2007-05-23 20:01:06'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "I am not much of an Adobe person, but Minion is a good one in this case.
    Long academic texts need these fonts to uphold your eyelids.\r\n\r\nOh, if money
    does not matter, I would try Compatil Text. A smasher, but unfortunately those
    buggers at Linotype don't sell them as single fonts, which I think is a shame
    :-/"
  created: '2007-05-24 09:48:28'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "I forgot URW Garamond:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/27798"
  created: '2007-05-24 14:01:53'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: "Yes, thank you for the input so far. I had originally hoped that Linux Libertine
    would be viable because the creator has obviously put a lot of work into it with
    the small caps and full complement of diacritics. Out of fairness I include another
    image generated by adobe rather than ms of the font.  \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/linlib2_4181.png]\r\n\r\nCoincidentally
    I have recently discovered minion lurking in my acrobat folder. To me its feeling
    of genericness is too intentional. I am currently debating between a baskerville
    and the new century schoolbook with sanskrit diacritics on \r\nhttp://bombay.indology.info/software/fonts/induni/index.html\r\nWhich
    baskerville? I like Lange's and Storm's. \r\n\r\nWhile I'm rambling, I notice
    that there's a cd with four Bitstream Aldine 401 fonts (and a bunch of other stuff)
    for $29 at myfonts.com, cheap indeed, and seems like it might be have better contrast
    than Bembo but not as nice as Bembo book. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-26 05:40:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I like Fountain's Baskerville.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-26 06:51:28'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Better to have a few quality fonts than a lot of, well, you know.\r\n\r\nNot
    that I have anything against a great deal. Even some of the free stuff floating
    around is excellent, like Gentium, Cardo, Lido, etc.\r\n\r\nFonts like Bembo Book,
    Dolly, Prensa, Scala, Quadraat, Kingfisher, Corundum, and other fine types meant
    for extended reading are in a different class, and most of them won't break the
    bank. Bembo Book alone . . . well, imagine setting text in a digitized Bembo that
    is actually *good.* Joy! \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-26 11:47:21'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I've spent the last 25 years setting long academic texts (usually in the
    humanities), and have a couple of observations that may apply.\r\n\r\nThe first
    is, if you are setting material that will be printed offset, you need to see how
    the font prints that way, not on a laser printer. Generally, the font will appear
    rather lighter when printed offset.\r\n\r\nThe second is to avoid any fonts with
    a EULA that prohibits modifying them for your own use, as do all the NEW Monotype
    & Linotype OT fonts.  The reason is you will inevitably come across a diacritic
    or character not in the font. Now from 1980 to 1995 (when we started using PostScript
    fonts), we also couldn't get inside the font to make up special sorts (glyphs).
    For diacriticals, you can work around this, but it helps greatly to use what is
    now called a \"layout engine\" that lets you program things, like TeX. Imagine
    setting 400 \"emacrons\" with a font that didn't have this character, where you
    couldn't program it.\r\n\r\nThen there are special characters, which you sometimes
    just can't properly render from existing characters. The \"eng\" comes to mind.
    So you either borrow one from another font, or pay the foundry to make one up.
    The foundry's special sorts will be both expensive & slow to come.\r\n\r\nI, for
    one, rejoiced at PostScript Type 1 fonts. Yes, they printed too thin, esp. with
    direct-to-plate offset lithography, but you could fix them. That was the beauty
    of them, with a weeks worth of work, you could make something that printed well,
    and you could add characters as you needed them. Nothing much has changed with
    OT, except those licenses (EULAs) which with one stroke take away the advantage
    of truly \"Open\" type.\r\n\r\nThere are enough foundries out there who permit
    modifying a font for your own use, that permit embedding, etc. that you should
    pick one of those. After 25 years, I don't have a \"favorite\" font, I like 10-12
    for text, but part of that appreciation is how they work for the text, and part
    of \"working for the text\" is the ability to make up special sorts.\r\n\r\nFWIW "
  created: '2007-05-26 13:09:43'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: I wouldn't have a problem with modifying a font to make it suitable for the
    task at hand, because I don't believe such restrictions in the EULA are legally
    binding.
  created: '2007-05-29 14:54:33'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I view EULAs as a contract in between the foundry and myself. I treat is
    the same as any other contract I might sign. That said: Typequake do you mind
    if people disregard contracts they''ve entered into with you?'
  created: '2007-05-29 18:05:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Humans are not paperwork.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-29 18:12:21'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Well, Miss Tiffany, I at least sort of do. But I'll confess it helps a lot
    when the foundry offers something other than legalese -- Like Adobe's FAQ's on
    licenses.\r\n\r\nThere was a Harvard (Yale?) law professor who was, shall we say,
    down on Credit Cards. In one of her senior law classes, a student came in & showed
    her an offering where you got money back. As an exercise, she had the class try
    to determine under just what conditions they'd get money back. At the end, after
    hours of work, they could not reach common agreement.\r\n\r\nNow, not all Harvard
    (Yale?) law students are dumb. And these were seniors, about to head out into
    the world. So what chance do you think  you or I would have?\r\n\r\nIn a way,
    I prefer the EULA's which say, right in the font on the copyright page in FontLab
    \"You can't do a damn thing with this font.\" At least I'm sure about what they're
    saying.\r\n\r\nOne of the interesting things about Adobe's license is it seems
    to forbid modifying the font, but when you read the FAQ, it's clear that modifying
    under certain conditions is permitted. The interesting thing is, according to
    Thomas Phinney, that the same lawyers wrote both the EULA and the FAQ. Go figure;
    what kind of a contract is that?\r\n\r\n. . . or is this a case of the choir preaching
    to the minister?"
  created: '2007-05-30 02:16:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> what kind of a contract is that?\r\n\r\nThe kind most beneficial to the
    rich people, obviously.\r\nAnd it's quite depressing to see Tiffany consistently
    act\r\nas their partisan, without even realizing it really.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 02:29:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I guess she must be stupid, eh Hrant? -- just like everybody else on Typophile
    except you.
  created: '2007-05-30 04:05:20'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: "Charles_e, thanks for your comments. I find that there is an underlying issue
    here which I have not expressed. \r\n\r\nIn a production environment where there
    are several layers of service, everything has to be kosher, no modification means
    no modification (one could be sued, or worse, moralized at). Eulas allowing for
    modification make for much more efficient workflow, bringing us closer to typographical
    nirv\u0101\u1E47a. Also with digital texts increasingly being associated with
    the printed text, it is important to have proper unicode encoding rather than
    manually combining diacritical marks with letters in TeX/InDesign.   \r\n\r\nInterestingly,
    it is the free fonts which are working hardest to provide full diacritical complements:
    Gentium, Linux Libertine, Junicode, Cardo, DejaVu Sans, and others. These fonts
    are appearing because there is genuine frustration among scholars, which includes
    graduate students, who need to use diacritical characters not found in the standard
    fonts. For example, I know of a Buddhist Studies mailing list for scholars only,
    with several hundred members, and I guarantee that each one of them has some sort
    of non-commercial solution for writing the \"n-dot-under\" (in the word nirvana,
    above) and the other Sanskrit and Pali diacritics. This is because there are no
    commercial fonts available that include a full complement of diacritics. (Gentium
    would be a good reference point for what to include.) Scholars are not software
    pirates; they are generally willing to purchase things that meet their research
    needs. Scholars are also vain, and so there is a certain pride when the laser-printed
    manuscript or conference paper is printed in a nice font with all of the proper
    diacritics. Publishers with are increasingly asking for manuscripts in unicode.
    There is a definite market for reasonably priced fonts with extended diacritics.\r\n\r\nMany
    software companies have academic licenses. Why not for fonts? The stipulation
    for educational and not commercial use would justify the necessarily low price
    while preventing its use by publishers and presses. A commercially licensed version
    could include small caps, figures, superior numbers (for footnotes, of course),
    etc. and be sold for a normal price. \r\n\r\nA single good quality serif font,
    with the diacritics of gentium, in the standard 4 faces would be enough. It doesn't
    have to be the latest Sabon, but it should be a serious text font. A matched sans
    would be a nice option too. A tt/ot font is preferable because ms word 97, 2000,
    and xp have problems accessing extended character ranges in ps/ot fonts. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 04:22:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, Tiffany isn't stupid, and neither are you. In the poser dimension however
    you two are on opposite sides. Anyway, just stick to labeling me a \"clueless
    idiot\" and you'll keep winning hearts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 04:28:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...without even realizing it...</em>\r\n\r\nYou don't get it, do you
    Hrant?\r\nStating that someone isn't aware of why they're doing something is hurtful.\r\nWhat
    gives you the right to comment on people's motivations and (in your opinion) lack
    of self-awareness?\r\n\r\nIt's generally considered rude, and the guidelines at
    Typophile are:\r\n\"please conduct yourself with restraint and treat others who
    use these discussion boards with respect... please refrain from any personal attacks.\"\r\n\r\nYou
    have been repeatedly asked to refrain from ad hominem arguments and yet you are
    unable to restrain yourself.\r\n\r\nIf you disagree with what Tiffany is saying,
    deal with what she says, but don't put her down for being (in your opinion) unaware
    of what she's doing.\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 04:41:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, what \"right\" do you have to waste my time and whine at me?\r\nTo
    you I'm offensive, to me you're offensive. Now what?\r\n\r\nAnd do not try to
    rally support for you nefarious cause by comparing your case with Tiffany's. She
    has many redeeming qualities, critically here including the ability to see her
    own faults, and the (related) ability to absorb criticism. She is not a hyper-sensitive
    primadonna who has hissy-fits and replaces her posts with periods as soon as I
    say something that violates her personal social rules. She knows that whatever
    those rules happen to be they cannot extend very far in a place such as this.
    She knows what compromise and tolerance really mean. And she has never called
    anybody a \"clueless idiot\".\r\n\r\nThe thing is, your historic issue with me
    is not about expressive style, it is in fact about content, and this \"show restraint
    with personal attacks\" business is pure Western formalistic scapegoating, which
    of course fits in predictably with your background. If you want to promulgate
    bad typography with impunity, do it somewhere I'm not. What I suggest instead
    is for you to promulgate whatever the hell junk you want wherever you want, but
    don't try to stifle the fallout. Your persistent whining indicates an inability
    to come to terms with all this, and it tells me that I am not in fact more lacking
    in restraint than you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 05:38:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>To you I\u2019m offensive, to me you\u2019re offensive.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    difference is that I don't psychoanalyze people I disagree with, or diss their
    background. You don't have a clue what goes on inside other people's heads, yet
    in your previous post you have presumptuously treated us all to an in-depth look
    at Tiffany's thoughts and emotions, and mine.\r\nThat's plain rudeness in the
    culture Typophile is part of.\r\n\"Show restraint from personal attacks\" is a
    Typophile guideline which you have decided doesn't apply to you, as you say \"whatever
    those rules happen to be they cannot extend very far in a place such as this.\"
    \r\nSure, I once called you a clueless idiot, but I have frequently been at my
    wit's end to know how to deal with your offensive comments. Most people just avoid
    tangling with you, because if they deny their faults, as pointed out by you, they
    know they will get even more of the same. Talk type, dude, stay out of people's
    heads."
  created: '2007-05-30 06:14:58'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "Tiffany, not every consumer contract you sign is binding. \r\nFor example,
    you may have an \"agreement\" with your bank or insurance companies that contains
    illegal or unenforceable clauses.\r\nThere are many other examples that show that
    a EULA does not necessarily reflect the buyer's entitlements. "
  created: '2007-05-30 06:15:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Isn't it true that people like Tiffany who license fonts and also point out
    to font vendors the nonsense, contradictory and anti-user clauses in their EULAs
    do more good than those who license fonts and choose to ignore parts that they
    don't like in the privacy of their own homes, or quasi-anonymously on typophile?
    \ \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 06:24:41'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: Perhaps. But isn't it true that those who raise valid points on typophile
    do more good than those who try to discourage them from expressing unpopular views?
  created: '2007-05-30 06:49:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, Nick, like I said, it's not really about my \"psychoanalysis\", it's
    about me thinking that big chunks of the way you make fonts suck, and not being
    inclined to shut up about it. That's what you can't handle. If I were to psychonalyse
    you and conclude that you're fit to make the best fonts in history, you'd LOVE
    me!\r\n\r\n> The difference is that ...\r\n\r\nThere are more differences, some
    of which are in my favor\r\nand against you. You don't get it. You only see your
    side.\r\n\r\n> I have frequently been at my wit\u2019s end\r\n\r\nShow some restraint.\r\nAt
    the very least don't hijack threads out of the blue simply to pursure your own
    personal agenda - it's disrespectful of Typophile, which is more than a tool for
    you to use any which way you like - it's a society. It is greater than you. But
    sadly you're too individualistic to ever grasp anything like that.\r\n\r\nAnd
    here's another crazy idea: when you lose your wits, apologize afterwards. The
    fact that you pretty much never do reflects quite poorly on you. To me it means
    you're unfit to communicate effectively. Which is not to say I think you shouldn't
    try. Just stop whining already, PLEASE! It's so offensive. And you already have
    this on your side: http://typophile.com/node/16005\r\n\r\n> Most people just avoid
    tangling with you\r\n\r\nConvenient fabrication - the proof being that you're
    the only person to ever have taken up my \"fruitful avoidance\" offer above. Other
    people either don't have enough of a problem with me, or they have a problem but
    they don't want to lose the potential benefits of my contributions and/or they
    feel that it would be a dishonorable, weak-kneed cop-out. But really, most people
    simply don't say things I disagree with at almost every turn! You have to understand,
    your \"design philosophy\" is so whacked in my book that anything that comes out
    of it is likely to be offensive to me. And I owe you no favors, so I feel no need
    to allow you to confuse people for your own ends.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 07:27:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Simon, if they do do more good, then it's simply\r\nbecause font houses are
    so vain that they listen\r\nmore to people who buy stuff from them; while in\r\nfact
    good business sense says you should listen to\r\npeople who are NOT buying from
    you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 07:29:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>while in fact good business sense says you should listen to\r\npeople
    who are NOT buying from you.</em>\r\n\r\nActually, investing in developing more
    sales from one's existing customers gives a better rate of return than marketing
    to \"cold\" customers. \r\n\r\nNow to add the Hrantish Psychoanalytic Put-down:\r\n\r\n\"Understand
    this: if your obsession with being \"top dog\" requires you to pass judgement
    on everything, you're going to spend a lot of time completely out of your depth.\"\r\n\r\nDid
    I get that right, maestro, or should I have thrown in a \"typical of your kind\"
    as well?"
  created: '2007-05-30 10:52:42'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I view EULAs as a contract in between the foundry and myself. I treat is
    the same as any other contract I might sign. That said: Typequake do you mind
    if people disregard contracts they\u2019ve entered into with you?\"\r\n\r\nThe
    main gripe I have is the inconsistency in how IP vendors want us to treat their
    wares.\r\n\r\nIf we 'steal' their IP my making a copy, then they like to equate
    that to physical property and want to treat us as shoplifters and counterfeiters.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    if WE equate it to physical property and, as such, modify it any way we see fit,
    then they scream and claim that it's nothing like physical property and that we
    merely own a license to borrow it.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 16:21:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Darrel, many foundries permit modifications -- as long as the modified font
    software is not resold or used on unlicensed computers. Is that reasonable?
  created: '2007-05-30 17:15:12'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Is that reasonable?\"\r\n\r\nI'd say so."
  created: '2007-05-30 18:20:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In fact that used to be the norm, but then, inspired by MS and Emigre*, most
    font houses ended up forbidding it outright. I don't know what the situation is
    now, but it seems a little bit better, and Tiffany can take partial credit for
    the correction.\r\n\r\n* MS's reason is to reduce support calls. Emigre's reason
    is just schizophrenia.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 18:28:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "One of the reasons I don't mind people adapting my fonts is that I've done
    it myself on others' fonts.\r\n\r\nThe scenario is this: a client I've worked
    with before wants some modifications to a font, not mine. So, do they contact
    the foundry to do the changes? Possibly, but there are three issues: delivery,
    price and quality. The original designer may not be available right now, the price
    may be too much, and the quality is in some respects unknown, as they haven't
    worked with that designer before -- quality being a result of process. Of course,
    none of that may be problematic, but the tendency is to contact someone you have
    a working relationship with."
  created: '2007-05-30 20:19:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't get it - so modifying a third-party font\r\nis only objectionable
    if there's no money in it?\r\n\r\nThis is what I'm recalling: http://typophile.com/node/14378\r\n\r\nHave
    you changed you mind since then, or is Licko indeed\r\nuntouchable in your mind?
    I hope (against hope) that it's\r\nthe former, especially since -as I've said-
    you are in fact a\r\nbetter type designer than her!\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t mind
    people adapting my fonts\r\n\r\n\"If you say so.\" Why did you once resist giving
    out an EPS of\r\nEunoia, to see how others would [try to] turn it into a text
    face?\r\n\r\nMore likely in my mind is that you're simply smart enough\r\nnot
    to resist the unavoidable. Quite unlike your goddess.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 20:38:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The adaptations I've done have been family extensions like adding weights,
    condensed versions, headline or agate versions.\r\n\r\nWhat I object to is the
    idea that the typeface designer got a character shape wrong, and that it can be
    fixed by other people. \r\n\r\nIt's not such an issue for the more generic kinds
    of typefaces which have been through the mill umpteen times, but I think we should
    respect the integrity of recent, original designs.\r\n\r\n\"Do not fear mistakes,
    there are none.\" -- Miles Davis."
  created: '2007-05-30 20:55:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The adaptations I\u2019ve done have been ...\r\n\r\nWhat if, for example,
    you're making (let's add: being paid to make)\r\na Cyrillic extension to a third-party
    Latin font, and you happen to\r\nsee something in one of the \"shared\" glyphs
    that you think is wrong?\r\nAnd let's say the client wants to totally replace
    the original Latin with\r\nthe new multiscript font. What would you do, give the
    client a product\r\nyou consider inferior?\r\n\r\n> What I object to is the idea
    that the typeface designer got a\r\n> character shape wrong, and that it can be
    fixed by other people.\r\n\r\nNothing is ever perfect, especially not over time.\r\n\r\n>
    we should respect the integrity of recent, original designs.\r\n\r\nRespect a
    font? It's just a tool.\r\nAnd what's \"recent\" anyway?\r\n\r\nDo not fear improvement,
    even by others of what you've made.\r\n\"Revolution, go slow.\" \u2014 Robert
    Plant\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 21:04:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>What would you do...</em>\r\nI don't know.\r\n\r\nA font may be just
    a tool, but a typeface is more than that.\r\nIt's not so much respect for the
    font, as respect for the designer.\r\n\r\nWhile I'm not too keen on tinkering
    with typeface designs, a radical remix or reinterpretation is cool.\r\n\r\n\"Either
    go away or go all the way\"  --Grace Slick\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-30 21:41:22'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: 'Ok, credit where credit is due: Points for quoting Miles.'
  created: '2007-05-31 01:47:28'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "wizz -- just to get a bit back on topic, (for Typical), The situation with
    free fonts and academics can still be confusing. I'm at home & away from everything
    but a computer hooked to the net & almost no other software. But as I remember,
    Gentium's EULA forbids modification. Less sure about Junicode.\r\n\r\nAnd the
    problem, at least in the states, is deeper than finding one good font. Academicians,
    if they teach in the States, want tenure. To get tenure, you usually need a couple
    journal publications and a book. Now a journal, if it is printed, will have a
    set of fonts which are always used. And a book will be designed by either an in-house
    or freelance designer at a university press. Will they have time (a cynic would
    say have the interest) to see if the font they choose for the text has the needed
    diacriticals or special characters? Perhaps, but don't place a heavy bet. The
    number of fonts suitable for a book interior containing the characters needed
    for transliterated Arabic or IAST is real small. I can't think of any offhand.
    Some of the work we get is due to this very situation.\r\n\r\nMy point is, how
    a manuscript appears is is valuable only for the manuscript, not for typesetting.
    But you are quite right -- for the author's files to be useful, Unicode should
    be used.\r\n\r\nI wonder if Adobe would be interested in making up, say Minion,
    with the needed glyphs. Now Minion may be viewed by the designers-whose-primary-aim-is-to-impress-other-designers
    as \"boring,\" but it is more than serviceable for book interiors. I have over
    1,000 fonts at work, but when I design, I specify Minion reasonably often, because
    it fits the author's work and my understanding of the intended audience.\r\n\r\nThings
    may be different along the Pacific Rim, but in much of the world, there is usually
    a difference between a <cite>manuscript</cite> and a finished product -- not that
    this is necessarily a good thing.\r\n\r\nFWIW\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: sgh
      picture: 111405
    body: "Since Nov 2005, Gentium has been released under the SIL Open Font License,
      which allows modification and the right to distribute the derivatives.  Junicode
      is released under the GPL, and has been for some time.  The author of Junicode
      is very solicitous of extensions and contributions to Junicode.\r\n"
    created: '2007-05-31 08:17:20'
  created: '2007-05-31 03:04:50'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "I would definitely agree with Miss Tiffany here, although my heart sometimes
    bleeds, and temptations crawls through my arteries - when I get a license for
    a software, it is generally prohibited to modify the  software without the constent
    of the person who made it. When I get a design, it is usually not allowed to modify
    it without the consent of the designer. Period. Unless the programmer or designer
    explicitly says otherwise. I know it. You all know it. I don't really care about
    laws here. It is common sense, it's good behaviour. We all hate other people messing
    with our work. Okay, I think we do. I, at least, hate it.\r\n\r\nI sometimes pay
    good money for software that I my hands are just itching to re-write it. I sometimes
    buy fonts where I simply yearn to get in there and correct the characters, because
    a few of them are just BAD, spoiling the whole damn typeface.\r\n\r\nBut that's
    just the way it is. When people do not like something I did, I also like to tell
    them that they are wrong, that they have no sense for art, and that they can go
    to... well. I hate to find out that these people then simply \"steal\" the software
    and modify it without my consent. I hate to see them change my designs although
    I told them not to. It is rude. I don't want it. So I respect other people who
    do not want it either. Although it.... really... tempts me sometimes :-) But I
    resist. Go away, Darth :-)"
  created: '2007-05-31 08:59:22'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>When I get a design, it is usually not allowed to modify it without
    the consent of the designer.</cite>\r\n\r\nAs an occasional designer -- and somebody
    who knows many graphic designers -- I'd say that doesn't fit. The customer/art
    director/senior editor etc. will make some changes. I don't know how to say it
    in German, but the English word \"Art\" has several uses. It is sort of like art
    for it's own sake is art, and can be accepted or rejected (bought or not). On
    the other hand, something that has an aesthetic element, but where the intended
    purpose is something other than art, doesn't have the \"don't change it\" aspect
    of fine art.\r\n\r\nIt is that \"other purpose\" at issue here. So, if you don't
    like a typeface, don't buy it -- unless a customer insists on its use,  in which
    case you can decline the commission, or accept it & hold your nose. But if a typeface
    is generally what is wanted by all, but in some small detail fails to perform
    its intended purpose (it is incomplete, had one really bad character, etc.), I
    would view that as different.\r\n\r\nGentium, proposed above as a solution for
    certain kinds of academic texts, has no ligatures, no old-style numbers, no small
    caps, and no kerning. That it lack a bold doesn't bother me, but would bother
    some. Now these aren't \"small details,\" they move the font from once category
    to another. Additionally, the overall aesthetic of Gentium is less than ideal
    for some texts, good for others, as with any single typeface. So, Gentium solves
    one kind of problem for academic authors, generating a manuscript which anyone
    can follow. That was its purpose. It does not solve another problem, namely publishing.
    Having the freedom to \"modify\" other fonts solves this problem.\r\n\r\nThis
    is just one example,there are many, since it would be absurd to insist the font
    designer anticipates all the uses of his/her product. It doesn't even make sense
    to say the painter \"didn't foresee the uses of their painting\" -- unless you
    get political, where nothing make sense.   "
  created: '2007-05-31 12:52:40'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "...<cite>       When I get a design, it is usually not allowed to modify
    it without the consent of the designer. Period. Unless the programmer or designer
    explicitly says otherwise. I know it. You all know it.<cite>\r\n\r\nI don't see
    \"periods\", only question marks.\r\nI don't \"know\" it. I know that I don't.
    That's why I don't automatically accept the terms of EULAs.\r\n\r\nAnd I don't
    know, but I get a feeling that you don't care about laws unless they serve your
    interest."
  created: '2007-06-01 03:00:15'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: "I didn't mean to give the impression that the manuscript is the book. I am
    primarily a scholar but I have done the layout for a very limited number of publications
    and recognize that a nice page involves more considerations than I will probably
    ever be aware of. My main concerns come in two areas: 1. the manuscript to print
    transition could be a little smoother if there were more fonts with more diacritics;
    2. I am still looking for a font that will fulfill my research needs with Sanskrit
    diacritical letters and satisfy me aesthetically. (It looks like I will purchase
    one and then add the diacritics.) \r\n\r\nOn the topic of eulas, I read through
    a bunch of old threads on eulas (and there are many). Too bad we can't send our
    own eula with payment--\"By accepting this payment you agree to the following
    terms: 1...\"\r\n\r\nAlso, there was a thread a couple years ago about changing
    the font licensing system to pay per use. Is that still being talked about? "
  created: '2007-06-07 13:33:24'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Too bad we can\u2019t send our own eula with payment\u2014\u201CBy accepting
    this payment you agree to the following terms: 1\u2026\u201D\"\r\n\r\nI don't
    think anything is stopping you from that!\r\n\r\nI once got into a heated long
    drawn out email debate with CSA after purchasing a CD of their stock art. After
    opening 8 layers of superb packaging, we pop the CD in only to realize the stock
    art is nothing but scanned in BMP files, which we found useless, so asked for
    our money back if we returned it. I then got to see the absurd wrath of Chuck
    explaining that as a powerful graphic design firm, us opening the packaging forever
    bound us to their EULA which prohibits returns.\r\n\r\nIn otherwords, by purchasing
    said product, we waived all rights to customer service in their mind...and how
    DARE we question it.\r\n\r\nNow, I'm sure Chuck isn't as insane as he was in those
    emails, but for some reason, folks go into insane mode when it comes to issues
    of their own IP and EULAs. And consumers soon just ignore them all together just
    as we ignore things like 'NO TURN ON RED' when it's 2am and you are the only vehicle
    in a 2 mile radius on the road."
  created: '2007-06-07 15:32:44'
- author:
    name: siringe
  body: "Let me ask another question about \"the quality of a free font\". Linux libertine
    has a companion, Linux Biolinum, it is described as a organic font, a serif without
    serifs basically, and with stroke contrast.\r\nI think it looks nice, and i am
    thinking about using it in my masters paper for the headings. What is your opinion?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/biolinum_4702.jpg]"
  created: '2011-03-19 10:46:38'
- author:
    name: fontdesigner2
  body: "I agree with Charles when he says \"Unobtrusive is good for long academics
    texts, boring is not.\" Maybe the font shouldn't be such a common and therefore
    boring one since the people reading it will be bored anyway with the content.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    I'm thinking way outside of the box, but wouldn't it be cool if instead of using
    any of the Caslon-type fonts you're thinking of or what others are suggesting,
    you use something that looks very different from the average type of thing you're
    doing, like something out of the ordinary? That is of course unless you have a
    boss or client that wants to keep it conservative.\r\n\r\nI have a few serif font
    suggestions that I think would look cool if used in a book:\r\n\r\nSt Ryde ($29+)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/St-Ryde_4019.jpg]\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/stereotypes/st-ryde/\r\n\r\nClassic
    Round (free)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/classic-round_3821.jpg]\r\nhttp://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/classic-round\r\n\r\nMuseo
    (free)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/museo_4161.jpg]\r\nhttp://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/Museo\r\n\r\nTinos
    (free)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Tinos_5329.jpg]\r\nhttp://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/tinos\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-19 11:46:07'
- author:
    name: mynewcolour
  body: "\"I have a few serif font suggestions that I think would look cool if used
    in a book:\r\nClassic Round (free)http://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/classic-round\"\r\n\r\nHi,
    I'm new to the forum (this is my 1st post).\r\n\r\nI was keen to get some further
    opinions on 'classic-round'. I like it, and I'm considering using it black (on
    white stock) offset. It's a contender, although as it's only available in 1 weight
    I fear I might regret it in future. It could be really limiting in future applications.\r\n\r\nAm
    I missing any other obvious issues? Or is it widely considered a 'good' font?"
  created: '2011-03-29 15:47:26'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>it's only available in 1 weight</cite>\r\n\r\nNot exactly:\r\nhttp://durotype.com/Fonts/_idx_Classic_Round.htm\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/durotype/classic-round/"
  created: '2011-03-29 16:06:24'
- author:
    name: mynewcolour
  body: "Thanks riccard0. Not sure how I missed that.\r\n\r\nI decided I wanted something
    a little more 'interesting' in the end and I'm going to use [[http://www.emigre.com/fontpage.php?SMrsXLR.html
    | Mrs Eaves XL]] for print paired with Georgia online."
  created: '2011-04-04 17:58:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, did the fix the spacing when making the XL?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-04 18:16:39'
date: '2007-05-05 08:36:41'
files:
- filename: linlib.gif
  uri: public://old-images/linlib.gif
node_type: forum
title: Quality of a free font

---
